THE EDUCATION OF CATHOLIC GIRLS

     *     *     *     *

   PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR GIRLS. A Series of Papers by Nineteen
     Headmistresses dealing with the History, Curricula, and
     Aims of Public Secondary Schools for Girls. Edited by
     SARA A. BURSTALL, Headmistress of the Manchester High
     School, and M. A. DOUGLAS, Headmistress of the Godolphin
     School, Salisbury. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.
   THE DAWN OF CHARACTER. A Study of Child Life. By EDITH E.
     READ MUMFORD, M.A., Cloth-workers' Scholar, Girton
     College, Cambridge, Lecturer on 'Child Training' at the
     Princess Christian Training College for Nurses,
     Manchester. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d,
   NOTES OF LESSONS ON THE HERBARTIAN METHOD (based on
     Herbart's Plan). By M. FENNELL and Members of a Teaching
     Staff. With a Preface by M. FENNELL, Lecturer on
     Education. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.
   EDUCATION AND THE NEW UTILITARIANISM, and other Educational
     Addresses. By ALEXANDER DARROCH, M.A., Professor of
     Education in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo,
     3s. 6d. net.
   EDUCATION   AND PSYCHOLOGY. By MICHAEL WEST, Indian
     Education Service. BERGH, O.S.B.

Imprimatur: FRANOISOUS CARD. BOURNE ABCHIEPOS WESIMONAST,

die 1 Januarii, 1912.

PREFACE

We have had many treatises on education in recent years; many regulations have been issued
by Government Departments; enormous sums of money are contributed annually from private and
public sources for the improvement and development of education. Are the results in any degree
proportioned to all these repeated and accumulated efforts? It would not be easy to find one,
with practical experience of education, ready to give an unhesitatingly affirmative answer.
And the explanation of the disappointing result obtained is very largely to be found in the
neglect of the training of the will and character, which is the foundation of all true education.
The programmes of Government, the grants made if certain conditions are fulfilled, the recognition
accorded to a school if it conforms to a certain type, these things may have raised the standard
of teaching, and forced attention to subjects of learning which were neglected; they have done
little to promote education in the real sense of the term. Nay, more than this, the insistence
on certain types of instruction which they have compelled has in too many cases paralysed the
efforts of teachers who in their hearts were striving after a better way.

The effect on some of our Catholic schools of the newer methods has not been free from harm.
Compelled by force of circumstances, parental or financial, to throw themselves into the current
of modern educational effort, they have at the same time been obliged to abandon the quieter
traditional ways which, while making less display, left a deeper impress on the character of
their pupils. Others have had the courage to cling closely to hallowed methods built up on
the wisdom and experience of the past, and have united with them all that was not contradictory
in recent educational requirements. They may, thereby, have seemed to some waiting in sympathy
with the present, and attaching too great value to the past. The test of time will probably
show that they have given to both past and present an equal share in their consideration.

It will certainly be of singular advantage to those who are engaged in the education of Catholic
girls to have before them a treatise written by one who has had a long and intimate experience
of the work of which she writes. Loyal in every word to the soundest traditions of Catholic
education, the writer recognizes to the full that the world into which Catholic girls pass
nowadays on leaving school is not the world of a hundred, or of fifty, or of even thirty years
ago. But this recognition brings out, more clearly than anything else could do, the great and
unchanging fact that the formation of heart and will and character is, and must be always,
the very root of the education of a child; and it also shows forth the new fact that at no
time has that formation been more needed than at the present day.

The pages of this book are well worthy of careful pondering and consideration, and they will
be of special value both to parents and to teachers, for it is in their hands and in their
united, and not opposing action, that the educational fate of the children lies.

But I trust that the thoughts set forth upon these pages will not escape either the eyes or
the thoughts of those who are the public custodians and arbiters of education in this country.
The State is daily becoming more jealous in its control of educational effort in England. Would
that its wisdom were equal to its jealousy. We might then be delivered from the repeated attempts
to hamper definite religious teaching in secondary schools, by the refusal of public aid where
the intention to impart it is publicly announced; and from the discouragement continually arising
from regulations evidently inspired by those who have no personal experience of the work to
be accomplished, and who decline to seek information from those to whom such work is their
very life. It cannot, surely, be for the good of our country that the stored-up experience
of educational effort of every type should be disregarded in favour of rigid rules and programmes;
or that zeal and devotion in the work of education are to be regarded as valueless unless they
be associated with so-called undenominational religion. The Catholic Church in this and in
every country has centuries of educational tradition in her keeping. She has no more ardent
wish than to place it all most generously at the service of the commonwealth, and to take her
place in every movement that will be to the real advantage of the children upon whom the future
of the world depends. And we have just ground for complaint when the conditions on which alone
our co-operation will be allowed are of such a character as to make it evident that we are
not intended to have any real place in the education of our country.

May this treatise so ably written be a source of guidance and encouragement to those who are
giving their lives to the education of Catholic children, and at the same time do something
to dispel the distrust and to overcome the hostility shown in high quarters towards every Catholic
educational endeavour.

FRANCIS CARDINAL BOURNE, ARCHBISHOP OF WESTMINSTER.

CONTENTS

PREFACE
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER
    I. RELIGION
   II. CHARACTER. I.
  III. CHARACTER. II.
   IV. THE ELEMENTS OF CATHOLIC PHILOSOPHY
    V. THE REALITIES OF LIFE
   VI. LESSONS AND PLAY
  VII. MATHEMATICS, NATURAL SCIENCE, AND NATURE STUDY
 VIII. ENGLISH
   IX. MODERN LANGUAGES
   X. HISTORY
   XI. ART
  XII. MANNERS
 XIII. HIGHER EDUCATION OF WOMEN
  XIV. CONCLUSION
       APPENDIX I
       APPENDIX II
       INDEX

Pair though it be, to watch unclose
The nestling glories of a rose,
Depth on rich depth, soft fold on fold;
Though fairer he it, to behold
Stately and sceptral lilies break
To beauty, and to sweetness wake:
Yet fairer still, to see and sing,
One fair thing is, one matchless thing:
Youth, in its perfect blossoming.
                      LIONEL JOHNSON.

INTRODUCTION

A book was published in the United States in 1910 with the title, EDUCATION: HOW OLD THE NEW.
A companion volume might be written with a similar title, EDUCATION: HOW NEW THE OLD, and it
would only exhibit another aspect of the same truth.

This does not pretend to be that possible companion volume, but to present a point of view
which owes something both to old and new, and to make an appeal for the education of Catholic
girls to have its distinguishing features recognized and freely developed in view of ultimate
rather than immediate results.

CHAPTER I.

RELIGION.
                                          KEBLE.

The principal educational controversies of the present day rage round the teaching of religion
to children, but they are more concerned with the right to teach it than with what is taught,
in fact none of the combatants except the Catholic body seem to have a clear notion of what
they actually want to teach, when the right has been secured. It is not the controversy but
the fruits of it that are here in question, the echoes of battle and rumours of wars serve
to enhance the importance of the matter, the duty of making it all worth while, and using to
the best advantage the opportunities which are secured at the price of so many conflicts.

The duty is twofold, to God and to His children. God, who entrusts to us their religious education,
has a right to be set before them as truly, as nobly, as worthily as our capacity allows, as
beautifully as human language can convey the mysteries of faith, with the quietness and confidence
of those who know and are not afraid, and filial pride in the Christian inheritance which is
ours. The child has a right to learn the best that it can know of God, since the happiness
of its life, not only in eternity but even in time, is bound up in that knowledge. Most grievous
wrong has been done, and is still done, to children by well-meaning but misguided efforts to
"make them good" by dwelling on the vengeance taken by God upon the wicked, on the possibilities
of wickedness in the youngest child. Their impressionable minds are quite ready to take alarm,
they are so small, and every experience is so new; there are so many great forces at work which
can be dimly guessed at, and to their vivid imaginations who can say what may happen next?
If the first impressions of God conveyed to them are gloomy and terrible, a shadow may be cast
over the mind so far-reaching that perhaps a whole lifetime may not carry them beyond it. They
hear of a sleepless Bye that ever watches, to see them doing wrong, an Bye from which they
cannot escape. There is the Judge of awful severity who admits no excuse, who pursues with
relentless perseverance to the very end and whose resources for punishment are inexhaustible.
What wonder if a daring and defiant spirit turns at last and stands at bay against the resistless
Avenger, and if in later years the practical result is--"if we may not escape, let us try to
forget," or the drifting of a whole life into indifference, languor of will, and pessimism
that border on despair.

Parents could not bear to be so misrepresented to their children, and what condemnation would
be sufficient for teachers who would turn the hearts of children against their father, poisoning
the very springs of life. Yet this wrong is done to God. In general, children taught by their
own parents do not suffer so much from these misrepresentations of God, as those who have been
left with servants and ignorant teachers, themselves warped by a wrong early training. Fathers
and mothers must have within themselves too much intuition of the Fatherhood of God not to
give another tone to their teaching, and probably it is from fathers and mothers, as they are
in themselves symbols of God's almighty power and unmeasured love, that the first ideas of
Him can best reach the minds of little children.

But it is rare that circumstances admit the continuance of this best instruction. For one reason
or another children pass on to other teachers and, except for what can be given directly by
the clergy, must depend on them for further religious instruction. This further teaching, covering,
say, eight years of school life, ten to eighteen, falls more or less into two periods, one
in which the essentials of Christian life and doctrine have to be learned, the other in which
more direct preparation may be made for the warfare of faith which must be encountered when
the years of school life are over. It is a great stewardship to be entrusted with the training
of God's royal family of children, during these years on which their after life almost entirely
depends, and "it is required among stewards that a man may be found faithful." For other branches
of teaching it is more easy to ascertain that the necessary qualifications are not wanting,
but in this the qualifications lie so deeply hidden between God and the conscience that they
must often be taken for granted, and the responsibility lies all the more directly with the
teacher who has to live the life, as well as to know the truth, and love both truth and life
in order to make them loved. These are qualifications that are never attained, because they
must always be in process of attainment, only one who is constantly growing in grace and love
and knowledge can give the true appreciation of what that grace and love and knowledge are
in their bearing on human life: to be rather than to know is therefore a primary qualification.
Inseparably bound up with it is the thinking right thoughts concerning what is to be taught.

1. To have right thoughts of God. It would seem to be too obvious to need statement, yet experience
shows that this fundamental necessity is not always secure, far from it. It is not often put
into words, but traces may be found only too easily of foundations of religion laid in thoughts
of God that are unworthy of our faith. Whence can they have come? Doubtless in great measure
from the subtle spirit of Jansenism which spread so widely in its day and is so hard to outlive--from
remains of the still darker spirit of Calvinism which hangs about convert teachers of a rigid
school--from vehement and fervid spiritual writers, addressing themselves to the needs of other
times--perhaps most of all from the old lie which was from the beginning, the deep mistrust
of God which is the greatest triumph of His enemy. God is set forth as if He were encompassed
with human limitations--the fiery imagery of the Old Testament pressed into the service of
modern and western minds, until He is made to seem pitiless, revengeful, exacting, lying in
wait to catch His creatures in fault, and awaiting them at death with terrible surprises.

But this is not what the Church and the Gospels have to say about Him to the children of the
kingdom. If we could put into words our highest ideals of all that is most lovely and lovable,
beautiful, tender, gracious, liberal, strong, constant, patient, unwearying, add what we can,
multiply it a million times, tire out our imagination beyond it, and then say that it is nothing
to what He is, that it is the weakest expression of His goodness and beauty, we shall give
a poor idea of God indeed, but at least, as far as it goes, it will be true, and it will lead
to trustfulness and friendship, to a right attitude of mind, as child to father, and creature
to Creator. We speak as we believe, there is an accent of sincerity that carries conviction
if we speak of God as we believe, and if we believe truly, we shall speak of Him largely, trustfully,
and happily, whether in the dogmas of our faith, or as we find His traces and glorious attributes
in the world around us, as we consider the lilies of the field and the birds of the air, or
as we track with reverent and unprecipitate following the line of His providential government
in the history of the world.

The need of right thoughts of God is also deeply felt on the side of our relations to Him,
and that especially in our democratic times when sovereignty is losing its meaning. There are
free and easy ideas of God, as if man might criticize and question and call Him to account,
and have his say on the doings of the Creator. It is not explanation or apology that answer
these, but a right thought of God makes them impossible, and this right thought can only be
given if we have it ourselves. The Fatherhood of God and the Sovereignty of God are foundations
of belief which complete one another, and bear up all the superstructure of a child's understanding
of Christian life.

2. Eight ideas of ourselves and of our destiny. It is a pity that evil instead of good is made
a prominent feature of religious teaching. To be haunted by the thought of evil and the dread
of losing our soul, as if it were a danger threatening us at every step, is not the most inspiring
ideal of life; quiet, steady, unimaginative fear and watchfulness is harder to teach, but gives
a stronger defence against sin than an ever present terror; while all that belongs to hope
awakens a far more effective response to good. Some realization of our high destiny as heirs
of heaven is the strongest hold that the average character can have to give steadiness in prosperity
and courage in adversity. Chosen souls will rise higher than this, but if the average can reach
so far as this they will do well.

3. Eight ideas of sin and evil. It is possible on the one hand to give such imperfect ideas
of right and wrong that all is measured by the mere selfish standard of personal security.
The frightened question about some childish wrong-doing--"is it a mortal sin?" often indicates
that fear of punishment is the only aspect under which sin appears to the mind; while a satisfied
tone in saying "it is only a venial sin" looks like a desire to see what liberties may be taken
with God without involving too serious consequences to self. "It is wrong" ought to be enough,
and the less children talk of mortal sin the better--to talk of it, to discuss with them whether
this or that is a mortal sin, accustoms them to the idea. When they know well the conditions
which make a sin grave without illustrations by example which are likely to obscure the subject
rather than clear it up, when their ideas of right and duty and obligation are clear, when
"I ought" has a real meaning for them, we shall have a stronger type of character than that
which is formed on detailed considerations of different degrees of guilt.

On the other hand it is possible to confuse and torment children by stories of the exquisite
delicacy of the consciences of the saints, as St. Aloysius, setting before them a standard
that is beyond their comprehension or their degree of grace, and making them miserable because
they cannot conform to it.

It is a great safeguard against sin to realize that duty must be done, at any cost, and that
Christianity means self-denial and taking up the cross.

4. Eight thoughts of the four last things. True thoughts of death are not hard for children
to grasp, to their unspoiled faith it is a simple and joyful thing to go to God. Later on the
dreary pageantry and the averted face of the world from that which is indeed its doom obscure
the Christian idea, and the mind slips back to pagan grief, as if there were no life to come.

Eight thoughts of judgment are not so hard to give if the teaching is sincere and simple, free
from exaggerations and phantoms of dread, and on the other hand clear from an incredulous protest
against God's holding man responsible for his acts.

But to give right thoughts of hell and heaven taxes the best resources of those who wish to
lay foundations well, for they are to be foundations for life, and the two lessons belong together,
corner-stones of the building, to stand in view as long as it shall stand and never to be forgotten.

The two lessons belong together as the final destiny of man, fixed by his own act, this or
that. And they have to be taught with all the force and gravity and dignity which befits the
subject, and in such a way that after years will find nothing to smile at and nothing to unlearn.
They have to be taught as the mind of the present time can best apprehend them, not according
to the portraiture of mediaeval pictures, but in a language perhaps not more true and adequate
in itself but less boisterous and more comprehensible to our self-conscious and introspective
moods. Father Faber's treatment of these last things, hell and heaven, would furnish matter
for instruction not beyond the understanding of those in their last years at school, and of
a kind which if understood must leave a mark upon the mind for life. [1 See Appendix I.]

5. Eight views of Jesus Christ and His mother. For Catholic children this relationship is not
a thing far off, but the faith which teaches them of God Incarnate bids them also understand
that He is their own "God who gives joy to their youth"--and that His mother is also theirs.
There are many incomprehensible things in which children are taught to affirm their belief,
and the acts of faith in which they recite these truths are far beyond their understanding.
But they can and do understand if we take pains to teach them that they are loved by Our Lord
each one alone, intimately and personally, and asked to love in return. "Suffer the little
children to come unto Me, and forbid them not," is not for them a distant echo of what was
heard long ago in the Holy Land, it is no story, but a living reality of to day. They are themselves
the children who are invited to come to Him, better off indeed than those first called, since
they are not now rebuked or kept off by the Apostles but brought to the front and given the
first places, invited by order of His Vicar from their earliest years to receive the Bread
of Heaven, and giving delight to His representatives on earth by accepting the invitation.

It is the reality as contrasted with the story that is the prerogative of the Catholic child.
Jesus and Mary are real, and are its own closest kin, all but visible, at moments intensely
felt as present. They are there in joy and in trouble, when every one else fails in understanding
or looks displeased there is this refuge, there is this love which always forgives, and sets
things right, and to whom nothing is unimportant or without interest. Companionship in loneliness,
comfort in trouble, relief in distress, endurance in pain are all to be found in them. With
Jesus and Mary what is there in the whole world of which a Catholic child should be afraid.
And this glorious strength of theirs made perfect in child-martyrs in many ages will make them
again child-martyrs now if need be, or confessors of the holy faith as they are not seldom
called upon, even now, to show themselves.

There is a strange indomitable courage in children which has its deep springs in these Divine
things; the strength which they find in Holy Communion and in their love for Jesus and Mary
is enough to overcome in them all weakness and fear.

6. Eight thoughts of the faith and practice of Christian life. And here it is necessary to
guard against what is childish, visionary, and exuberant, against things that only feed the
fancy or excite the imagination, against practices which are adapted to other races than ours,
but with us are liable to become unreal and irreverent, against too vivid sense impressions
and especially against attaching too much importance to them, against grotesque and puerile
forms of piety, which drag down the beautiful devotions to the saints until they are treated
as inhabitants of a superior kind of doll's house, rewarded and punished, scolded and praised,
endowed with pet names, and treated so as to become objects of ridicule to those who do not
realize that these extravagances may be in other countries natural forms of peasant piety when
the grace of intimacy with the saints has run wild. In northern countries a greater sobriety
of devotion is required if it is to have any permanent influence on life.

But again, on the other hand, the more restrained devotion must not lose its spontaneity; so
long as it is the true expression of faith it can hardly be too simple, it can never be too
intimate a part of common life. Noble friendships with the saints in glory are one of the most
effectual means of learning heavenly-mindedness, and friendships formed in childhood will last
through a lifetime. To find a character like one's own which has fought the same fight and
been crowned, is an encouragement which obtains great victories, and to enter into the thoughts
of the saints is to qualify oneself here below for intercourse with the citizens of heaven.

To be well grounded in the elements of faith, and to have been so taught that the practice
of religion has become the atmosphere of a happy life, to have the habit of sanctifying daily
duties, joys, and trials by the thought of God, and a firm resolve that nothing shall be allowed
to draw the soul away from Him, such is, broadly speaking, the aim we may set before ourselves
for the end of the years of childhood, after which must follow the more difficult years of
the training of youth.

The time has gone by when the faith of childhood might be carried through life and be assailed
by no questionings from without. A faith that is not armed and ready for conflict stands a
poor chance of passing victoriously through its trials, it cannot hope to escape from being
tried. "We have laboured successfully," wrote a leading Jewish Freemason in Rome addressing
his Brotherhood, "in the great cities and among the young men; it remains for us to carry out
the work in the country districts and amongst the women." Words could not be plainer to show
what awaits the faith of children when they come out into the world; and even in countries
where the aim is not so clearly set forth the current of opinion mostly sets against the faith,
the current of the world invariably does so. For faith to hold on its course against all that
tends to carry it away, it is needful that it should not be found unprepared. The minds of
the young cannot expect to be carried along by a Catholic public opinion, there will be few
to help them, and they must learn to stand by themselves, to answer for themselves, to be challenged
and not afraid to speak out for their faith, to be able to give "first aid" to unsettled minds
and not allow their own to be unsettled by what they hear. They must learn that, as Father
Dalgairns points out, their position in the world is far more akin to that of Christians in
the first centuries of the Church than to the life that was lived in the middle ages when the
Church visibly ruled over public opinion. Now, as in the earliest ages, the faithful stand
in small assemblies or as individuals amid cold or hostile surroundings, and individual faith
and sanctity are the chief means of extending the kingdom of God on earth.

But this apostleship needs preparation and training. The early teaching requires to be seasoned
and hardened to withstand the influences which tend to dissolve faith and piety; by this seasoning
faith must be enlightened, and piety become serene and grave, "sedate," as St. Francis of Sales
would say with beautiful commentary. In the last years of school or school-room life the mind
has to be gradually inured to the harder life, to the duty of defending as well as adorning
the faith, and to gain at least some idea of the enemies against which defence must be made.
It is something even to know what is in the air and what may be expected that the first surprise
may not disturb the balance of the mind. To know that in the Church there have been sorrows
and scandals, without the promises of Christ having failed, and even that it had to be so,
fulfilling His word, "it must needs be that scandals come" (St. Matthew XVIII. 7), that they
are therefore rather a confirmation than a stumbling-block to our faith, this is a necessary
safeguard. To have some unpretentious knowledge of what is said and thought concerning Holy
Scripture, to know at least something about Modernism and other phases of current opinion is
necessary, without making a study of their subtilties, for the most insecure attitude of mind
for girls is to think they know, in these difficult questions, and the best safeguard both
of their faith and good sense is intellectual modesty. Without making acquaintance in detail
with the phenomena of spiritualism and kindred arts or sciences, it is needful to know in a
plain and general way why they are forbidden by the Church, and also to know how those who
have lost their balance and peace of mind in these pursuits would willingly draw back, but
find it next to impossible to free themselves from the servitude in which they are entangled.
It is hard for some minds to resist the restless temptation to feel, to see, to test and handle
all that life can offer of strange and mysterious experiences, and next to the curb of duty
comes the safeguard of greatly valuing freedom of mind.

Curiosity concerning evil or dangerous knowledge is more impetuous when a sudden emancipation
of mind sweeps the old landmarks and restraints out of sight, and nothing has been foreseen
which can serve as a guide. Then is the time when weak places in education show themselves,
when the least insincerity in the presentment of truth brings its own punishment, and a faith
not pillared and grounded in all honesty is in danger of failing. The best security is to have
nothing to unlearn, to know that what one knows is a very small part of what can be known,
but that as far as it goes it is true and genuine, and cannot be outgrown, that it will stand
both the wear of time and the test of growing power of thought, and that those who have taught
these beliefs will never have to retract or be ashamed of them, or own that they were passed
off, though inadequate, upon the minds of children.

It is not unusual to meet girls who are troubled with "doubts" as to faith and difficulties
which alarm both them and their friends. Sometimes when these "doubts" are put into words they
turn out to be mere difficulties, and it has not been understood that "ten thousand difficulties
do not make a doubt." Sometimes the difficulties are scarcely real, and come simply from catching
up objections which they do not know how to answer, and think unanswerable. Sometimes a spirit
of contradiction has been aroused, and a captious tendency, or a love of excitement and sensationalism,
with a wish to see the other side. Sometimes imperfect teaching has led them to expect the
realization of things as seen, which are only to be assented to as believed, so that there
is a hopeless effort to imagine, to feel, and to feel sure, to lean in some way upon what the
senses can verify, and the acquiescence, assent, and assurance of faith seems all insufficient
to give security. Sometimes there is genuine ignorance of what is to be believed, and of what
it is to believe. Sometimes it is merely a question of nerves, a want of tone in the mind,
insufficient occupation and training which has thrown the mind back upon itself to its own
confusion. Sometimes they come from want of understanding that there must be mysteries in faith,
and a multitude of questions that do not admit of complete answers, that God would not be God
if the measure of our minds could compass His, that the course of His Providence must transcend
our experience and judgment, and that if the truths of faith forced the assent of our minds
all the value of that assent would be taken away. If these causes and a few others were removed
one may ask oneself how many "doubts" and difficulties would remain in the ordinary walks of
Catholic life.

It seems to be according to the mind of the Church in our days to turn the minds of her children
to the devotional study of Scripture, and if this is begun, as it may be, in the early years
of education it gains an influence which is astonishing. The charm of the narrative in the
very words of Scripture, and the jewels of prayer and devotion which may be gathered in the
Sacred Books, are within the reach of children, and they prepare a treasure of knowledge and
love which will grow in value during a lifetime. Arms are there, too, against many difficulties
and temptations; and a better understanding of the Church's teaching and of the liturgy which
is the best standard of devotion for the faithful.

The blight of Scriptural knowledge is to make it a "subject" for examinations, running in a
parallel track with Algebra and Geography, earning its measure of marks and submitted to the
tests of non-Catholic examining bodies, to whom it speaks in another tongue than ours. It must
be a very robust devotion to the word of God that is not chilled by such treatment, and can
keep an early Christian glow in its readings of the Gospels and Epistles whether they have
proved a failure or a success in the examination. In general, Catholic candidates acquit themselves
well in this subject, and perhaps it may give some edification to non-Catholic examiners when
they see these results. But it is questionable whether the risk of drying up the affection
of children for what must become to them a text-book is worth this measure of success. Let
experience speak for those who know if it is not so; it would seem in the nature of things
that so it must be. When it is given over to voluntary study (beyond the diocesan requirements
which are a stimulus and not a blight) it catches, not like wild fire, but like blessed fire,
even among young children, and is woven imperceptibly into the texture of life.

Lastly, what may be asked of Catholic children when they grow up and have to take upon themselves
the responsibility of keeping their own faith alive, and the practice of their religion in
an atmosphere which may often be one of cold faith and slack observance? Neither their spiritual
guides, nor those who have educated them, nor their own parents, can take this responsibility
out of their hands. St. Francis of Sales calls science the 8th Sacrament for a priest, urging
the clergy to give themselves earnestly to study, and he says that great troubles have come
upon us because the sacred ark of knowledge was found in other hands than those of the Levites.
Leo XIII wrote in one of his great encyclicals that "Every minister of holy religion must bring
to the struggle the full energy of his mind and all his power of endurance." What about the
laity? We cannot leave all the battle to the clergy; they cannot defend and instruct and carry
us into the kingdom of heaven in spite of ourselves; their labours call for response and correspondence.
What about those who are now leaving childhood behind and will be in the front ranks of the
coming generation? Their influence will make or unmake the religion of their homes, and what
they will be for the whole of their life will depend very much upon how they take their first
independent stand.

It is much that they should be well grounded in those elements of doctrine which they can learn
in their school-days. It is much more if they carry out with them a living interest in the
subject and care to watch the current of the Church's thought in the encyclicals that are addressed
to the faithful, the pastorals of Bishops, the works of Catholic writers which, are more and
more within the reach of all, in the great events of the Church's life, and in the talk of
those who are able to speak from first-hand knowledge and experience. It is most of all fundamental
that they should have an attitude of mind that is worthy of their faith; one that is not nervous
or apologetic for the Church, not anxious about the Pope lest he should "interfere too much,"
nor frightened of what the world may say. They should have an unperturbed conviction that the
Church will have the last word in any controversy, and that she has nothing to be alarmed at,
though all the battalions of newest thought should be set in array against her; they should
be lovingly proud of the Church, and keep their belief in her at all times joyous, assured,
and unafraid.

Theology is not for them, neither required nor obtainable, though some have been found enterprising
enough to undertake to read the Summa, and naive enough to suppose that they would be theologians
at the end of it, and even at the outset ready to exchange ideas with Doctors of Divinity on
efficacious grace, and to have "views" on the authorship of the Sacred Writings. Such aspirations
either come to an untimely end by an awakening sense of proportion, or remain as monuments
to the efforts of those "less wise," or in some unfortunate cases the mind loses its balance
and is led into error.

"Thirsting to be more than mortal, I was even less than clay."

Let us, if we can, keep the bolder spirits on the level of what is congruous, where the wealth
that is within their reach will not be exhausted in their lifetime, and where they may excel
without offence and without inviting either condemnation or ridicule. The sense of fitness
is a saving instinct in this as in 1 every other department of life. When it is present, first
principles come home like intuitions to the mind, where it is absent they seem to take no hold
at all, and the understanding that should supply for the right instinct makes slow and laborious
way if it ever enters at all.

To know the relation in which one stands to any department of knowledge is, in that department,
"the beginning of wisdom". The great Christian Basilicas furnish a parallel in the material
order. They are the house of God and the home and possession of every member of the Church
militant without distinction of age or rank or learning. But they are not the same to each.
Every one brings his own understanding and faith and insight, and the great Church is to him
what he has capacity to understand and to receive. The great majority of worshippers could
not draw a fine of the plans or expound a law of the construction, or set a stone in its place,
yet the whole of it is theirs and for them, and their reverent awe, even if they have no further
understanding, adds a spiritual grace and a fuller dignity to the whole. The child, the beggar,
the pilgrim, the penitent, the lowly servants and custodians of the temple, the clergy, the
venerable choir, the highest authorities from whom come the order and regulation of the ceremonies,
all have their parts, all stand in their special relations harmoniously sharing in different
degrees in what is for all. Even those long since departed, architects and builders and donors,
are not cut off from it, their works follow them, and their memory lives in the beauty which
stands as a memorial to their great ideals. It is all theirs, it is all ours, it is all God's.
And so of the great basilica of theology, built up and ever in course of building; it is for
all--but for each according to his needs---for their use, for their instruction, to surround
and direct their worship, to be a security and defence to their souls, a great Church in which
the spirit is raised heavenwards in proportion to the faith and submission with which it bows
down in adoration before the throne of God.

CHAPTER II.

CHARACTER I.

"La vertu maitresse d'aujourd'hui est la spontaneite resolue, reglee par les principes interieurs
et les disciplines volontairement acceptees."--Y. LE QUERDEC.

The value set on character, even if the appreciation goes no further than words, has increased
very markedly within the last few years, and in reaction against an exclusively mental training
we hear louder and louder the plea for the formation and training of character.

Primarily the word character signifies a distinctive mark, cut, engraved, or stamped upon a
substance, and by analogy, this is likewise character in the sense in which it concerns education.
A "man of character" is one in whom acquired qualities, orderly and consistent, stand out on
the background of natural temperament, as the result of training and especially of self-discipline,
and therefore stamped or engraved upon something receptive which was prepared for them. This
something receptive is the natural temperament, a basis more or less apt to receive what training
and habit may bring to bear upon it. The sum of acquired habits tells upon the temperament,
and together with it produce or establish character, as the arms engraved upon the stone constitute
the seal.

If habits are not acquired by training, and instead of them temperament alone has been allowed
to have its way in the years of growth, the seal bears no arms engraven on it, and the result
is want of character, or a weak character, without distinctive mark, showing itself in the
various situations of life inconsistent, variable, unequal to strain, acting on the impulse,
good or bad, of the moment; its fitful strength in moods of obstinacy or self-will showing
that it lacks the higher qualities of rational discernment and self-control.

"Character is shown by susceptibility to motive," says a modern American, turning with true
American instinct to the practical side in which he has made experiences, and it is evidently
one of the readiest ways of approaching the study of any individual character, to make sure
of the motives which awaken response. But the result of habit and temperament working together
shows itself in every form of spontaneous activity as well as in response to external stimulus.
Character may be studied in tastes and sympathies, in the manner of treating with one's fellow
creatures, of confronting various "situations" in life, in the ideals aimed at, in the estimate
of success or failure, in the relative importance attached to things, in the choice of friends
and the ultimate fate of friendships, in what is expected and taken for granted, as in what
is habitually ignored, in the instinctive attitude towards law and authority, towards custom
and tradition, towards order and progress.

Character, then, may stand for the sum of the qualities which go to make one to be thus, and
not otherwise; but the basis which underlies and constantly reasserts itself is temperament.
It makes people angry to say this, if they are determined to be so completely masters of their
way in life that nothing but reason, in the natural order, shall be their guide; but though
heroism of soul has overcome the greatest drawbacks of an unfortunate physical organization,
these cases are rare, and in general it must be taken into account to such an extent that the
battle against difficulties of temperament is the battle of a lifetime. There are certain broad
divisions which although they cannot pretend to rest upon scientific principles yet appeal
constantly to experience, and often serve as practical guides to forecast the lines on which
particular characters may be developed. There is a very striking division into assenting and
dissenting temperaments, children of yes and children of no; a division which declares itself
very early and is maintained all along the lines of early development, in mind and will and
taste and manner, in every phase of activity. And though time and training and the schooling
of life may modify its expression, yet below the surface it would seem only to accentuate itself,
as the features of character become more marked with advancing years. Where it touches the
religious disposition one would say that some were born with the minds of Catholics and, others
of Nonconformists, representing respectively centripetal and centrifugal tendencies of mind;
the first apt to see harmony and order, to realize the tenth of things that must be as they
are, the second born to be in opposition and with great labour subduing themselves into conformity.
They are precious aids in the service of the Church as controversialists when enlisted on the
right side, for controversy is their element. But for positive doctrine, for keen appreciation,
for persuasive action on the wills of others, they are at a disadvantage, at all events in
England, where logic does not enter into the national religious system, and the mind is apt
to resent conviction as if it were a kind of coercion. There are a great number of such born
Nonconformists in England, and when either the grace of Catholic education or of conversion
has been granted to them, it is interesting to watch the efforts to subdue and attune themselves
to submission and to faith. Sometimes the Nonconformist temperament is the greatest of safeguards,
where a Catholic child is obliged to stand alone amongst uncongenial surroundings, then it
defends itself doggedly, splendidly, and comes out after years in a Protestant school quite
untouched in its faith and much strengthened in militant Christianity. These are cheerful instances
of its development, and its advantages; they would suggest that some external opposition or
friction is necessary for such temperaments that their fighting instinct may be directed against
the common enemy, and not tend to arouse controversies and discussions in its own ranks or
within itself. In less happy cases the instinct of opposition is a cause of endless trouble,
friction in family life, difficulty in working with others, "alarums, excursions" on all sides,
and worse, the get attitude of distrust towards authority, which undermines the foundations
of faith and prepares the mind to break away from control, to pass from instinctive opposition
to antagonism, from antagonism to contempt, from contempt to rebellion and revolt. Arrogance
of mind, irreverence, self-idolatry, blindness, follow in their course, and the whole nature
loses its balance and becomes through pride a pitiful wreck.

The assenting mind has its own possibilities for good and evil, more human than those of Nonconformity,
for "pride was not made for men" (Ecclus. x 22), less liable to great catastrophes, and in
general better adapted for all that belongs to the service of God and man. It is a happy endowment,
and the happiness of others is closely bound up with its own. Again, its faults being more
human are more easily corrected, and fortunately for the possessor, punish themselves more
often. This favours truthfulness in the mind and humility in the soul--the spirit of the Confiteor.
Its dangers are those of too easy assent, of inordinate pursuit of particular good, of inconstancy
and variability, of all the humanistic elements which lead back to paganism. The history of
the Renaissance in Southern Europe testifies to this, as it illustrates in other countries
the development of the spirit of Nonconformity and revolt. Calvinism and a whole group of Protestant
schools of thought may stand as examples of the spirit of denial working itself out to its
natural consequences; while the exaggerations of Italian humanism, frankly pagan, are fair
illustrations of the spirit of assent carried beyond bounds. And those centuries when the tide
of life ran high for good or evil, furnish instances in point abounding with interest and instruction,
more easily accessible than what can be gathered from modern characters, in whom less clearly
defined temperaments and more complex conditions of life have made it harder to distinguish
the characteristic features of the mind. To mention only one or two--St. Francis of Sales and
Blessed Thomas More were great assentors, so were Pico de Mirandola and the great Popes of
the Renaissance, an example of a great Nonconformist is Savonarola.

The old division of temperaments into phlegmatic or lymphatic, sanguine, choleric, and nervous
or melancholy, is a fairly good foundation for preliminary observation, especially as each
of the four subdivides itself easily into two types--the hard and soft--reforms itself easily
into some cross-divisions, and refuses to be blended into others. Thus a very fine type of
character is seen when the characteristics of the sanguine and choleric are blended the qualities
of one correcting the faults of the other, and a very poor one if a yielding lymphatic temperament
has also a strain of melancholy to increase its tendency towards inaction. It is often easy
to discern in a group of children the leading characteristics of these temperaments, the phlegmatic
or lymphatic, hard or soft, not easily stirred, one stubborn and the other yielding, both somewhat
immobile, generally straightforward and reliable, law abiding, accessible to reason, not exposed
to great dangers nor likely to reach unusual heights. Next the sanguine, hard or soft, as hope
or enjoyment have the upper hand in them; this is the richest group in attractive power. If
hope is the stronger factor there is a fund of energy which, allied with the power of charm
and persuasion, with trustfulness in good, and optimistic outlook on the world, wins its way
and succeeds in its undertakings, making its appeal to the will rather than to the mind. On
the softer side of this type are found the disappointing people who ought to do well, and always
fail, for whom the joie de vivre carries everything before it, who are always good natured,
always obliging, always sweet-tempered, who cannot say no, especially to themselves, whose
energy is exhausted in a very short burst of effort, though ever ready to direct itself into
some new channel for as brief a trial. The characters which remain "characters of great promise"
to the end of their days, great promise doomed to be always unfulfilled. Of all characters,
these are perhaps the most disappointing; they have so much in their favour, and the one thing
wanting, steadiness of purpose, renders useless their most beautiful gifts. These two groups
seem to be the most common among the Teutons and Celts of Northern Europe with fair colouring
and tall build; perhaps the other two types are correspondingly more numerous among the Latin
races. They are choleric, ambitious, or self-isolated, as the cast of their mind is eager or
scornful and generally capable of dissimulation; the world is not large enough for their Bonapartes.
But if bitterness and sadness predominate, they are carried on an ebbing tide towards pessimism
and contemptuous weariness of life; their soft type, in so far as they have one, has the softness
of powder, dry and crushed, rather than that of a living organism. In children, this type,
fortunately rare, has not the charm or joy of childhood, but shows a restless straining after
some self-centred excellence, and a coldness of affection which indicates the isolation towards
which it is carried in later life. Lastly, there is the unquiet group of nervous or melancholic
temperaments, their melancholy not weighed down by listless sadness as the inactive lymphatics,
but more actively dissatisfied with things as they are--untiringly but unhopefully at work--hard
on themselves, anxious-minded, assured that in spite of their efforts all will turn out for
the worst, often scrupulous, capable of long-sustained efforts, often of heroic devotedness
and superhuman endurance, for which their reward is not in this world, as the art of pleasing
is singularly deficient in them. Here are found the people who are "so good, but so trying,"
ever in a fume and fuss, who, for sheer goodness, rouse in others the spirit of contradiction.
These characters are at their best in adversity, trouble stimulates them to their best efforts,
whereas in easy circumstances and surrounded with affection they are apt to drop into querulous
and exacting habits. If they are endowed with more than ordinary energy it is in the direction
of diplomacy, and not always frank. On the whole this is the character whose features are least
clearly defined, over which a certain mystery hangs, and strange experiences are not unfrequent
It is difficult to deal with its elusive showings and vanishings, and this melting away and
reappearing seems in some to become a habit and even a matter of choice, with a determination
not to be known.

Taking these groups as a rough classification for observation of character, it is possible
to get a fair idea of the raw material of a class, though it may be thankfully added that in
the Church no material is really raw, with the grace of Baptism in the soul and later on the
Sacrament of Penance, to clear its obscurities and explain it to itself and by degrees to transform
its tendencies and with grace and guidance to give it a steady impulse towards the better things.
Confirmation and First Communion sometimes sensibly and even suddenly transfigure a character;
but even apart from such choice instances the gradual work of the Sacraments brings Catholic
children under a discipline in which the habit of self-examination, the constant necessity
for effort, the truthful avowal of being in the wrong, the acceptance of penance as a due,
the necessary submissions and self-renunciations of obedience to the Church, give a training
of their own. So a practicing Catholic child is educated unconsciously by a thousand influences,
each of which, supernatural in itself, tells beyond the supernatural sphere and raises the
natural qualities, by self-knowledge, by truth, by the safeguard of religion against hardness
and isolation and the blindness of pride, even if the minimum of educational facilities have
been at work to take advantage of these openings for good. A Catholic child is a child, and
keeps a childlike spirit for life, unless the early training is completely shipwrecked, and
even then there are memories which are means of recovery, and the way home to the Father's
house is known. It may be hoped that very many never leave it, and never lose the sense of
being one of the great family, "of the household of faith." They enjoy the freedom of the house,
the rights of children, the ministries of all the graces which belong to the household, the
power of being at home in every place because the Church is there with its priesthood and its
Sacraments, responsible for its children, and able to supply the wants of their souls. It is
scarcely possible to find among Catholic children the inaccessible little bits of flint who
are not brought up, but bring up their own souls outside the Church--proud in their isolation,
most proud of never yielding inward obedience or owning themselves in the wrong, and of being
sufficient for themselves. When the grace of Q-od reaches them and they are admitted into the
Church, one of the most overwhelming experiences is that of becoming one of a family, for whom
there is some one responsible, the Father of the family whose authority and love pass through
their appointed channels, down to the least child.

There is no such thing as an orphan child within the Church, there are possibilities of training
and development which belong to those who have to educate the young which must appeal particularly
to Catholic teachers, for they know more than others the priceless value of the children with
whom they have to do. Children, souls, freighted for their voyage through life, vessels so
frail and bound for such a port are worthy of the devoted care of those who have necessarily
a lifelong influence over them, and the means of using that influence for their lifelong good
ought to be a matter of most earnest study. Knowledge must come before action, and first-hand
knowledge, acquired by observation, is worth more than theoretic acquirements; the first may
supply for the second, but not the second for the first. There are two types of educators of
early childhood which no theory could produce, and indeed no theory could tell how they are
produced, but they stand unrivalled--one is the English nurse and the other the Irish. The
English nurse is a being apart, with a profound sense of fitness in all things, herself the
slave of duty; and having certain ideals transmitted, who can tell how, by an unwritten traditional
code, as to what ought to be, and a gift of authority by which she secures that these things
shall be, reverence for God, reverence in prayer, reverence for parents, consideration of brothers
for sisters, unselfishness, manners, etc., her views on all these things are like the laws
of the Medes and Persians "which do not alter "--and they are also holy and wholesome. The
Irish nurse rules by the heart, and by sympathy, by a power of self-devotion that can only
be found where the love of God is the deepest love of the heart; she has no views, but--she
knows. She does not need to observe--she sees' she has instincts, she never lays down a law,
but she wins by tact and affection, lifting up the mind to God and subduing the will to obedience,
while appearing to do nothing but love and wait. The stamp that she leaves on the earliest
years of training is never entirely effaced; it remains as some instinct of faith, a habit
of resignation to the will of God, and habitual recourse to prayer. Both these types of educators
rule by their gift from God, and it is hard to believe that the most finished training in the
art of nursery management can produce anything like them, for they govern by those things that
lectures and handbooks cannot teach--faith, love, and common sense.

Those who take up the training of the next stage have usually to learn by their own experience,
and study what is given to very few as a natural endowment--the art of so managing the wills
of children that without provoking resistance, yet without yielding to every fancy, they may
be led by degrees to self-control and to become a law to themselves. It must be recognized
from the beginning that the work is slow; if it is forced on too fast either a breaking point
comes and the child, too much teased into perfection, turns in reaction and becomes self-willed
and rebellious; or if, unhappily, the forcing process succeeds, a little paragon is produced
like Wordsworth's "model child":--

"Full early trained to worship seemliness, This model of a child is never known To mix in quarrels;
that were far beneath Its dignity; with gifts he bubbles o'er As generous as a fountain; selfishness
May not come near him, nor the little throng Of flitting pleasures tempt him from his path;
The wandering beggars propagate his name. Dumb creatures find him tender as a nun, And natural
or supernatural fear, Unless it leap upon him in a dream, Touches him not. V, lines 298-329.

On the other hand if those who have to bring up children, fear too much to cross their inclinations,
and so seek always the line of least resistance, teaching lessons in play, and smoothing over
every rough peace of the road, the result is a weak, slack will, a mind without power of concentration,
and in later life very little resourcefulness in emergency or power of bearing up under difficulties
or privations. We are at present more inclined to produce these soft characters than to develop
paragons. But such movements go in waves and the wave-lengths are growing shorter; we seem
now to be reaching the end of a period when, as it has been expressed, "the teacher learns
the lessons and says them to the child." We are beginning to outgrow too fervid belief in methods,
and pattern lessons, and coming back to value more highly the habit of effort, individual work,
and even the saving discipline of drudgery. We are beginning, that is those who really care
for children, and for character, and for life; it takes the State and its departments a long
time to come up with the experience of those who actually know living children--a generation
is not too much to allow for its coming to this knowledge, as we may see at present, when the
drawbacks of the system of 1870 are becoming apparent at last in the eyes of the official world,
having been evident for years to those whose sympathies were with the children and not with
codes. America, open-minded America, is aware of all this, and is making generous educational
experiments with the buoyant idealism of a young nation, an idealism that is sometimes outstripping
its practical sense, quite able to face its disappointments if they come, as undoubtedly they
will, and to begin again. In one point it is far ahead of us--in the understanding that a large
measure of freedom is necessary for teachers. Whereas we are, let us hope, at the most acute
stage of State interference in details.

But in spite of the systems the children live, and come up year after year, to give us fresh
opportunities; and in spite of the systems something can be done with them if we take the advice
of Archbishop Ullathorne--"trust in God and begin as you can."

Let us begin by learning to know them, and the knowledge of their characters is more easily
gained if some cardinal points are marked, by which the unknown country may be mapped out.
The selection of these cardinal points depends in part on the mind of the observer, which has
more or less insight into the various manifestations of possibility and quality which may occur.
It is well to observe without seeming to do so, for as shy wild creatures fly off before a
too observant eye, but may be studied by a naturalist who does not appear to look at them,
so the real child takes to flight if it is too narrowly watched, and leaves a self conscious
little person to take its place, making off with its true self into the backwoods of some dreamland,
and growing more and more reticent about its real thoughts as it gets accustomed to talk to
an appreciative audience. With weighing and measuring, inspecting and reporting, exercising
and rapid forcing, and comparing, applauding and tabulating results, it is difficult to see
how children can escape self-consciousness and artificiality, and the enthusiasts for "child
study" are in danger of making the specimen of the real child more and more rare and difficult
to find, as destructive sportsmen in a new country exterminate the choice species of wild animals.

Too many questions put children on their guard or make them unreal; they cannot give an account
of what they think and what they mean and how far they have understood, and the greater the
anxiety shown to get at their real mind the less are they either able or willing to make it
known; so it is the quieter and less active observers who see the most, and those who observe
most are best aware how little can be known.

Yet there are some things which may serve as points of the compass, especially in the transitional
years when the features both of face and character begin to accentuate themselves. One of these
is the level of friendships. There are some who look by instinct for the friendship of those
above them, and others habitually seek a lower level, where there is no call to self-restraint.
Boys who hang about the stables, girls who like the conversation of servants; boys and girls
who make friends in sets at school, among the less desirable, generally do so from a love of
ease and dislike of that restraint and effort which every higher friendship calls for; they
can be somebody at a very cheap cost where the standard of talk is not exacting, whereas to
be with those who are striving for the best in any station makes demands which call for exertion,
and the taste for this higher level, the willingness to respond to its claims, give good promise
that those who have it will in their turn draw others to the things that are best.

The attitude of a child towards books is also indicative of the whole background of a mind;
the very way in which a book is handled is often a sign in itself of whether a child is a citizen
born, or an alien, in the world for which books stand. Taste in reading, both as to quality
and quantity, is so obviously a guiding line that it need scarcely be mentioned.

Play is another line in which character shows itself, and reveals another background against
which the scenes of life in the future will stand out, and in school life the keenest and best
spirits will generally divide into these two groups, the readers and the players, with a few,
rarely gifted, who seem to excel in both. From the readers will come those who are to influence
the minds of others here, if they do not let themselves be carried out too far to keep in touch
with real life. From the players will come those whose gift is readiness and decision in action,
if they on their side do not remain mere players when life calls for something more.

There are other groups, the born artists with their responsive minds, the "home children" for
whom everything centres in their own home-world, and who have in them the making of another
one in the future; the critics, standing aloof, a little peevish and very self-conscious, hardly
capable of deep friendship and fastidiously dissatisfied with people and things in general;
the cheerful and helpful souls who have no interests of their own but can devote themselves
to help anyone; the opposite class whose life is in their own moods and feelings. Many others
might be added, each observer's experience can supply them, and will probably close the list
with the same little group, the very few, that stand a little apart, but not aloof, children
of privilege, with heaven in their eyes and a little air of mystery about them, meditative
and quiet, friends of God, friends of all, loved and loving, and asking very little from the
outer world, because they have more than enough within. They are classed as the dreamers, but
they are really the seers. They do not ask much and they do not need much beyond a reverent
guardianship, and to be let alone and allowed to grow; they will find their way for they are
"taught of God."

It is impossible to do more than to throw out suggestions which any child-naturalist might
multiply or improve upon. The next consideration for all concerned is what to do with the acquired
knowledge, and how to "bring up" in the later stages of childhood and early youth.

What do we want to bring up? Not good nonentities, who are merely good because they are not
bad. There are too many of them already, no trouble to anyone, only disappointing, so good
that they ought to be so much better, if only they would. But who can make them will to be
something more, to become, as Montalembert said, "a fact, instead of remaining but a shadow,
an echo, or a ruin?" Those who have to educate them to something higher must themselves have
an idea of what they want; they must believe in the possibility of every mind and character
to be lifted up to something better than it has already attained; they must themselves be striving
for some higher excellence, and must believe and care deeply for the things they teach. For
no one can be educated by maxim and precept; it is the life lived, and the things loved and
the ideals believed in, by which we tell, one upon another. If we care for energy we call it
out; if we believe in possibilities of development we almost seem to create them. If we want
integrity of character, steadiness, reliability, courage, thoroughness, all the harder qualities
that serve as a backbone, we, at least, make others want them also, and strive for them by
the power of example that is not set as deliberate good example, for that is as tame as a precept,
but the example of the life that is lived, and the truths that are honestly believed in.

The gentler qualities which are to adorn the harder virtues may be more explicitly taught.
It is always more easy to tone down than to brace up; there must fist be something to moderate,
before moderation can be a virtue; there must be strength before gentleness can be taught,
as there must be some hardness in material things to make them capable of polish. And these
are qualities which are specially needed in our unsteady times, when rapid emancipation of
unknown forces makes each one more personally responsible than in the past. It is an impatient
age: we must learn patience; it is an age of sudden social changes: we have to make ready for
adversity; it is an age of lawlessness: each one must stand upon his own guard and be his own
defence; it is a selfish age, and never was unselfishness more urgently needed; love of home
and love of country seem to be cooling, one as rapidly as the other: never was it more necessary
to learn the spirit of self-sacrifice both for family life and the love and honour due to one's
country which is also "piety" in its true sense.

All these things come with our Catholic faith and practice if it is rightly understood. Catholic
family life, Catholic citizenship, Catholic patriotism are the truest, the only really true,
because the only types of these virtues that are founded on truth. But they do not come of
themselves. Many will let themselves be carried to heaven, as they hope, in the long-suffering
arms of the Church without either defending or adorning her by their virtues, and we shall
but add to their number if we do not kindle in the minds of children the ambition to do something
more, to devote themselves to the great Cause, by self-sacrifice to be in some sort initiated
into its spirit, and identified with it, and thus to make it worth while for others as well
as for themselves that they have lived their life on earth. There is a price to be paid for
this, and they must face it; a good life cannot be a soft life, and a great deal, even of innocent
pleasure, has to be given up, voluntarily, to make life worth living, if it were only as a
training in doing without.

Independence is a primary need for character, and independence can only be learnt by doing
without pleasant things, even unnecessarily. Simplicity of life is an essential for greatness
of life, and the very meaning of the simple life is the laying aside of many things which tend
to grow by habit into necessities. The habit of work is another necessity in any life worth
living, and this is only learnt by refraining again and again from what is pleasant for the
sake of what is precious. Patience and thoroughness are requirements whose worth and value
never come home to the average mind until they are seen in startling excellence, and it is
apparent what a price must have been paid to acquire their adamant perfection, a lesson which
might be the study of a lifetime. The value of time is another necessary lesson of the better
life, a hard lesson, but one that makes an incalculable difference between the expert and the
untried. We are apt to be always in a hurry now, for obvious reasons which hasten the movement
of life, but not many really know how to use time to the full. Our tendency is to alternate
periods of extreme activity with intervals of complete prostration for recovery. Perhaps our
grandparents knew better in a slower age the use of time. The old Marquise de Gramont, aged
93, after receiving Extreme Unction, asked for her knitting, for the poor. "Mais Madame la
Marquise a ete administree, elle va mourir!" said the maid, who thought the occupation of dying
sufficient for a lady of her age. "Ma chere, ce n'est pas une raison pour perdre son temps,"
answered the indomitable Marquise. It is told of her also that when one of her children asked
for some water in summer, between meals, she replied: "Mon enfant, vous ne serez jamais qu'un
etre manque, une pygmee, si vous prenez ces habitudes-la, pensez, mon petit coeur, au fiel
de Notre Seigneur Jesus Christ, et vous aurez le courage d'attendre le diner." She had learned
for herself the strength of going without.

One more lesson must be mentioned, the hardest of all to be learnt--perfect sincerity. It is
so hard not to pose, for all but the very truest and simplest natures--to pose as independent,
being eaten up with human respect; to pose as indifferent though aching with the wish to be
understood; to pose as flippant while longing to be in earnest; to hide an attraction to higher
things under a little air of something like irreverence. It is strange that this kind of pose
is considered as less insincere than the opposite class, which is rather out of fashion for
this very reason, yet to be untrue to one's better self is surely an unworthier insincerity
than to be ashamed of the worst. Perhaps the best evidence of this is the costliness of the
effort to overcome it, and the more observation and reflection we spend on this point the more
shall we be convinced that it is very hard to learn to be quite true, and that it entails more
personal self-sacrifice than almost any other virtue.

In conclusion, the means for training character may be grouped under the following headings:--

1. Contact with those who have themselves attained to higher levels, either parent, or teacher,
or friend. Perhaps at present the influence of a friend is greater than that of any power officially
set over us, so jealous are we of control. So much the better chance for those who have the
gift even in mature age of winning the friendship of children, and those who have just outgrown
childhood. In these friendships the great power of influence is hopefulness, to believe in
possibilities of good, and to expect the best.

2. Vigilance, not the nervous vigilance, unquiet and anxious, which rouses to mischief the
sporting instinct of children and stings the rebellious to revolt, but the vigilance which,
open and confident itself, gives confidence, nurtures fearlessness, and brings a steady pressure
to be at one's best. Vigilance over children is no insult to their honour, it is rather the
right of their royalty, for they are of the blood royal of Christianity, and deserve the guard
of honour which for the sake of their royalty does not lose sight of them.

3. Criticism and correction. To be used with infinite care, but never to be neglected without
grave injustice. It is not an easy thing to reprove in the right time, in the right tone, without
exasperation, without impatience, without leaving a sting behind; to dare to give pain for
the sake of greater good; to love the truth and have courage to tell it; to change reproof
as time goes on to the frank criticism of friendship that is ambitious for its friend. To accept
criticism is one of the greatest lessons to be learnt in life. To give it well is an art which
requires more study and more self-denial than either the habit of being easily satisfied and
requiring little, or the querulous habit of "scolding" which is admirably described by Bishop
Hedley as "the resonance of the empty intelligence and of the hollow heart of the man who has
nothing to give, nothing to propose, nothing to impart."

4. Discipline and obedience. If these are to be means of training they must be living and not
dead powers, and they must lead up to gradual self-government, not to sudden emancipation.
Obedience must be first of all to persons, prompt and unquestioning, then to laws, a "reasonable
service," then to the wider law which each one must enforce from within--the law of love which
is the law of liberty of the kingdom of God.

These are the means which in her own way, and through various channels of authority, the Church
makes use of, and the Church is the great Mother who educates us all. She takes us into her
confidence, as we make ourselves worthy of it, and shows us out of her treasures things new
and old. She sets the better things always before us, prays for us, prays with us, teaches
us to pray, and so "lifts up our minds to heavenly desires." She watches over us with un anxious,
but untiring vigilance, setting her Bishops and pastors to keep watch over the flock, collectively
and individually, "with that most perfect care" that St. Francis of Sales describes as "that
which approaches the nearest to the care God has of us, which is a care full of tranquillity
and quietness, and which, in its highest activity, has still no emotion, and being only one,
yet condescends to make itself all to all things."

Criticism and correction, discipline and obedience--these things are administered by the Church
our Mother, gently but without weakness, so careful is she in her warnings, so slow in her
punishments, so unswervingly true to what is of principle, and asking so persuasively not for
the sullen obedience of slaves, but for the free and loving submission of sons and daughters.

CHAPTER III.

CHARACTER II.

 "The Parts and Signes of Goodnesse are many. If a Man be
Gracious and Curteous to Strangers, it shewes he is a
Citizen of the World, And that his Heart is no Island cut
off from other Lands, but a Continent that joynes to them.
If he be Compassionate towards the Afflictions of others,
it shewes that his Heart is like the noble Tree, that is
wounded to selfe when it gives Balme. If he easily Pardons
and Remits Offences, it shewes that his minde is planted
above Injuries, So that he cannot be shot.

No one who has the good of children at heart, and the training of their characters, can leave
the subject without some grave thoughts on the formation of their own character, which is first
in order of importance, and in order of time must go before, and accompany their work to the
very end.

"What is developed to perfection can make other things like unto itself." So saints develop
sanctity in others, and truth and confidence beget truth and confidence, and the spirit of
enterprise calls out the spirit of enterprise, and constancy trains to endurance and perseverance,
and wise kindness makes others kind, and courage makes them courageous, and in its degree each
good quality tends to reproduce itself in others. Children are very delicately sensitive to
these influences, they respond unconsciously to what is expected of them, and instinctively
they imitate the models set before them. They catch a tone, a gesture, a trick of manner with
a quickness that is startling. The influence of mind and thought on mind and thought cannot
be so quickly recognized, but tells with as much certainty, and enters more deeply into the
character for life. The consideration of this is a great incentive to the acquirement of self-knowledge
and self-discipline by those who have to do with children. The old codes of conventionality
in education, which stood for a certain system in their time, are disappearing, and the worth
of the individual becomes of greater importance. This is true of those who educate and of those
whom they bring up. As the methods of modern warfare call for more individual resourcefulness,
so do the methods of the spiritual warfare, now that we are not supported by big battalions,
but each one is thrown back on conscience and personal responsibility. Girls as well as boys
have to be trained to take care of themselves and be responsible for themselves, and if they
are not so trained, no one can now be responsible for them or protect them in spite of themselves.
Therefore, the first duty of those who are bringing up Catholic girls is to be themselves such
as Catholic girls must be later on. This example is a discourse "in the vulgar tongue" which
cannot be misunderstood, and example is not resented unless it seems self-conscious and presented
of set purpose. The one thing necessary is to be that which we ought to be, and that is to
say, in other words, that the fundamental virtue in teaching children is a great and resolute
sincerity. Sincerity is a difficult virtue to practise and is too easily taken for granted.
It has more enemies than appear at first sight. Inertness of mind, the desire to do things
cheaply, dislike of mental effort, the tendency to be satisfied with appearances, the wish
to shine, impatience for results, all foster intellectual insincerity; just as, in conduct,
the wish to please, the spirit of accommodation and expediency, the fear of blame, the instinct
of concealment, which is inborn in many girls, destroy frankness of character and make people
untrue who would not willingly be untruthful. Yet even truthfulness is not such a matter of
course as many would be willing to assume. To be inaccurate through thoughtless laziness in
the use of words is extremely common, to exaggerate according to the mood of the moment, to
say more than one means and cover one's retreat with "I didn't mean it," to pull facts into
shape to suit particular ends, are demoralizing forms of untruthfulness, common, but often
unrecognized. If a teacher could only excel in one high quality for training girls, probably
the best in which she could excel would be a great sincerity, which would train them in frankness,
and in the knowledge that to be entirely frank means to lay down a great price for that costly
attainment, a perfectly honourable and fearless life. [1--"A woman, if it be once known that
she is deficient in truth, has no resource. Have, by a misuse of language, injured or lost
her only means of persuasion, nothing can preserve her from falling into contempt of nonentity.
When she is no longer to be believed no on will take the trouble to listen to her...no one
can depend on her, no on rests any hope on her, the words of which she makes use have no meaning."
--Madame Necker de Saussure, "Progressive Education."]

It sometimes happens that the realization of this truth comes comparatively late in life to
those who ought to have recognized it years before. Thinking along the surface of things, and
in particular repeating catchwords and platitudes and trite maxims on the subject of sincerity,
is apt to make us believe that we possess the quality we talk about, and as it is impossible
to have anything to do with the education of children without treating of sincerity and truthfulness,
it is comparatively easy to slip into the happy assumption that one is truthful, because one
would not deliberately be otherwise. But it takes far more than this to acquire real sincerity
of life in the complexity and artificiality of the conditions in which we live.

"And we have been on many thousand lines, And we have shown, on each, spirit and power; But
hardly have we, for one little hour, Been on our own line, have we been ourselves.

     *     *     *     *

"Our hidden self, and what we say and do
Is eloquent, is well--but 'tis not true!"
          MATTHEW ARNOLD, "The Buried Life."

Sincerity requires the recognition that to be honestly oneself is more impressive for good
than to be a very superior person by imitation. It requires the renunciation of some claims
to consideration and esteem, and the acceptance of limitations (a different thing from acquiescence
in them, for it means the acceptance of a lifelong effort to be what we aspire to be, with
a knowledge that we shall never fully attain it). It requires that we should bear the confusion
of defeat without desisting from the struggle, that we should accept the progressive illumination
of what is still unaccomplished, and keep the habitual lowliness of a beginner with the unconquerable
hopefulness which comes of a fixed resolution to win what is worth winning. Let those who have
tried say whether this is easy.

But in guiding children along this difficult way it is not wise to call direct attention to
it, lest their inexperience and sensitiveness should turn to scrupulosity and their spontaneity
be paralysed. It is both more acceptable and healthier to present it as a feat of courage,
a habit of fearlessness to be acquired, of hardihood and strength of character. The more subtle
forms of self-knowledge belong to a later period in life.

Another quality to be desired in those who have to do with children is what may--for want of
a better word--be called vitality, not the fatiguing artificial animation which is sometimes
assumed professionally by teachers, but the keenness which shows forth a settled conviction
that life is worth living. The expression of this is not self asserting or controversial, for
it is not like a garment put on, but a living grace of soul, coming from within, born of straight
thinking and resolution, and so strongly confirmed by faith and hope that nothing can discourage
it or make it let go. It is a bulwark against the faults which sink below the normal line of
life, dullness, depression, timidity, procrastination, sloth and sadness, moodiness, unsociability--all
these it tends to dispel, by its quiet and confident gift of encouragement. And though so contrary
to the spirit of childhood, these faults are found in children--often in delicate children
who have lost confidence in themselves from being habitually outdone by stronger brothers and
sisters, or in slow minds which seem "stupid" to others and to themselves, or in natures too
sensitive to risk themselves in the melee. To these, one who brings the gift of encouragement
comes as a deliverer and often changes the course of their life, leading them to believe in
themselves and their own good endowments, making them taste success which rouses them to better
efforts, giving them the strong comfort of knowing that something is expected of them, and
that if they will only try, in one way if not in another, they need not be behind the best.
At some stage in life, and especially in the years of rapid growth, we all need encouragement,
and often characters that seem to require only repression are merely singing out of tune from
the effort to hold out against blank discouragement at their failures to "be good," or to divert
their mind forcibly from their fits of depression. To be scolded accentuates their trouble
and tends to harden them; to grow a shell of hardness seems for the moment their only defence;
but if some one will meet their efforts half-way, believing in them with a tranquil conviction
that they will live through these difficulties and find themselves in due time, they can be
saved from much unhappiness of their own making, though not of their own fault, and their growth
will not be arrested behind an unnatural shell of defence.

The strong vitality and gift of encouragement which can give this help are also of value in
saving from the morbid and exaggerated friendships which sometimes spoil the best years of
a girl's education. If the character of those who teach them has force enough not only to inspire
admiration but to call out effort, it may rouse the mind and will to a higher plane and make
the things of which it disapproves seem worthless. There are moments when the leading mind
must have strength enough for two, but this must not last. Its glory is to raise the mind of
the learner to equality with itself, not to keep it in leading strings, but to make it grow
so that, as the master has often been outstripped by the scholar, the efforts of the younger
may even stimulate the achievements of the elder, and thus a noble friendship be formed in
the pursuit of what is best.

Educators of youth are exposed to certain professional dangers, which lie very close to professional
excellences of character. There is the danger of remaining young for the sake of children,
so that something of mature development will be lacking. If there is not a stimulus from outside,
and it is not supplied for by an inward determination to grow, the mental development may be
arrested and contented-ness at a low level be mistaken for the limit of capacity. A great many
people are mentally lazy, and only too ready to believe that they can do no more.

Many teachers are yoked to an examination programme sufficiently loaded to call for a great
deal of pressure along a low level, and they may easily mistake this harassing activity for
real mental work, and either be indeed hindered, or consider themselves absolved from anything
more. The penalty of it is a gradual decline of the unused powers, growing difficulty of sustained
attention, dislike for what requires effort of mind, loss of wider interests, restlessness
and superficiality in reading, and other indications of diminution of power in the years when
it ought to be on the increase. Is this the fault of those who so decline in power? It would
be hard to say that it is so universally, for some no doubt are pressed through necessity to
the very limits of their time and of their endurance. Yet experience goes to prove that if
a mental awakening really takes place the most unfavourable circumstances will not hinder a
rapid development of power. Abundance of books and leisure and fostering conditions are helps
but not essentials for mental growth. If few books can be had, but these are of the best, they
will do more for the mind by continued reading than abundance for those who have not yet learned
to use it. If there is little leisure the value of the hardly-spared moments is enhanced; we
may convince ourselves of this in the lives of those who have reached eminence in learning,
through circumstances apparently hopeless. If the conditions of life are unfavourable, it is
generally possible to find one like-minded friend who will double our power by quickening enthusiasm
or by setting the pace at which we must travel, and leading the way. There may be side by side
in the same calling in life persons doing similar work in like circumstances, with like resources,
of whom one is contentedly stagnating, feeling satisfied all the time that duty is done and
nothing neglected--and this may be true up to a certain point--while the other is haunted by
a blessed dissatisfaction, urged from within to seek always something better, and compelling
circumstances to minister to the growth of the mind. One who would meet these two again after
the interval of a few months would be astonished at the distance which has been left between
them by the stagnation of one and the advance of the other.

Another danger is that of becoming dogmatic and dictatorial from the habit of dealing with
less mature intelligences, from the absence of contradiction and friction among equals, and
the want of that most perfect discipline of the mind--intercourse with intellectual superiors.
Of course it is a mark of ignorance to become oracular and self-assured, but it needs watchfulness
to guard against the tendency if one is always obliged to take the lead. Teaching likewise
exposes to faults perhaps less in themselves but far reaching in their effect upon children;
a little observation will show how the smallest peculiarities tell upon them, either by affecting
their dispositions or being caught by them and reproduced. To take one example among many,
the pitch and intonation of the voice often impress more than the words. A nurse with a querulous
tone has a restless nursery; she makes the high-spirited contradictory and the delicate fretful.
In teaching, a high-pitched voice is exciting and wearing to children; certain cadences that
end on a high note rouse opposition, a monotonous intonation wearies, deeper and more ample
tones are quieting and reassuring, but if their solemnity becomes exaggerated they provoke
a reaction. Most people have a certain cadence which constantly recurs in their speaking and
is characteristic of them, and the satisfaction of listening to them depends largely upon this
characteristic cadence. It is also a help in the understanding of their characters. Much trouble
of mind is saved by recognizing that a certain cadence which sounds indignant is only intended
to be convincing, and that another which sounds defiant is only giving to itself the signal
for retreat. Again, for the teacher's own sake, it is good to observe that there are tones
which dispose towards obedience, and others which provoke remonstrance and, as Mme. Necker
de Saussure remarks: "It is of great consequence to prevent remonstrances and not allow girls
to form a habit of contradicting and cavilling, or to prolong useless opposition which annoys
others and disturbs their own peace of mind."

There are "teacher's manners" in many varieties, often spoiling admirable gifts and qualities,
for the professional touch in this is not a grace but puts both children and "grown-ups" on
the defensive. There is the head mistress's manner which is a signal to proceed with caution,
the modern "form mistress's" or class mistress's manner, with an off-hand tone destined to
reassure by showing that there is nothing to be afraid of, the science mistress's manner with
a studied quietness and determination that the knife-edge of the balance shall be the standard
of truthfulness, the professionally encouraging manner, the "stimulating" manner, the manner
of those whose ambition is to be "an earnest teacher," the strained tone of one whose ideal
is to to be overworked, the kindergarten manner, scientifically "awakening," giving the call
of the decoy-duck, confidentially inviting co operation and revealing secrets--these are types,
but there are many others.

Such mannerisms would seem to be developed by reliance on books of method, by professional
training imparted to those who have not enough originality to break through the mould, and
instead of following out principles as lines for personal experiment and discovery, deaden
them into rules and abide by them. The teacher's manner is much more noticeable among those
who have been trained than among the now vanishing class of those who have had to stand or
fall by their own merits, and find out their own methods. The advantage is not always with
the trained teacher even now, and the question of manner is not one of minor importance. The
true instinct of children and the sensitiveness of youth detect very quickly and resent a professional
tone; a child looks for freedom and simplicity, and feels cramped if it meets with something
even a little artificial. Children like to find real people, not anxiously careful to improve
them, but able to take life with a certain spontaneity as they like to take it themselves.
They are frightened by those who take themselves too seriously, who are too acute, too convincing
or too brilliant; they do not like people who appear to be always on the alert, nor those of
extreme temperatures, very ardent or very frigid. The people whom they like and trust are usually
quiet, simple people, who have not startling ways, and do not manifest those strenuous ideals
which destroy all sense of leisure in life.

Not only little children but those who are growing up resent these mannerisms and professional
ways. They, too, ask for a certain spontaneity and like to find a real person whom they can
understand. Abstract principles do not appeal to them, but they can understand and appreciate
character, not in one type and pattern alone, for every character that has life and truth commands
their respect and is acceptable in one way if not in another. It is not the bright colours
of character alone which attract them, they often keep a lifelong remembrance of those whose
qualities are anything but showy. They look for fairness in those who govern them, but if they
find this they can accept a good measure of severity. They respect unflinching uprightness
and are quick to detect the least deviation from it. They prefer to be taken seriously on their
own ground; things in general are so incomprehensible that it only makes matters worse to be
approached with playful methods and facetious invitations into the unknown, for who can tell
what educational ambush for their improvement may be concealed behind these demonstrations.
They give their confidence more readily to grave and quiet people who do not show too rapturous
delight in their performances, or surprise at their opinions, or--especially--distress at their
ignorance. They admire with lasting admiration those who are hard on themselves and take their
troubles without comment or complaint. They admire courage, and they can appreciate patience
if it does not seem to be conscious of itself. But they do not look up to a character in which
mildness so predominates that it cannot be roused to indignation and even anger in a good cause.
A power of being roused is felt as a force in reserve, and the knowledge that it is there is
often enough to maintain peace and order without any need for interference or remonstrance.
They are offended by a patience which looks like weariness, determined if it were at the last
gasp to "improve the occasion" and say something of educational profit. To "improve the occasion"
really destroys the opportunity; it is like a too expansive invitation to birds to come and
feed, which drives them off in a nutter. Birds come most willingly when crumbs are thrown as
it were by accident while the benefactor looks another way; and young minds pick up gratefully
a suggestion which seems to fall by the way, a mere hint that things are understood and cared
about, that there is safety beyond the thin ice if one trusts and believes, that "all shall
be well" if people will be true to their best thoughts. They can understand these assurances
and accept them when something more explicit would drive them back to bar the door against
intruders. All these are truisms to those who have observed children. The misfortune is that
in spite of the prominence given to training of teachers, of the new name of "Child Study"
and its manuals, there are many who teach children without reaching their real selves. If the
children could combine the result of their observations and bring out a manual of "Teacher
Study" we should have strange revelations as to how it looks from the other side. We should
be astonished at the shrewdness of the small juries that deliberate, and the insight of the
judges that pronounce sentence upon us, and we should be convinced that to obtain a favourable
verdict we needed very little subtlety, and not too much theory, but as much as possible of
the very things we look for as the result and crown of our work. We labour to produce character,
we must have it. We look for courage and uprightness, we must bring them with us. We want honest
work, we have to give proof of it ourselves. And so with the Christian qualities which we hope
to build on these foundations. We care for the faith of the children, it must abound in us.
We care for the innocence of their life, we must ourselves be heavenly minded, we want them
to be unworldly and ready to make sacrifices for their religion, they must understand that
it is more than all the world to us. We want to secure them as they grow up against the spirit
of pessimism, our own imperturbable hope in God and confidence in the Church will be more convincing
than our arguments. We want them to grow into the fulness of charity, we must make charity
the most lovable and lovely thing in the world to them.

The Church possesses the secrets of these things; she is the great teacher of all nations and
brings out of her treasury things new and old for the training of her children. A succession
of teaching orders of religious, representing different patterns of education, has gone forth
with her blessing to supply the needs of succeeding generations in each class of the Christian
community. When children cannot be brought up in their own homes, religious seem to be designated
as their natural guardians, independent as they are by their profession from the claims of
personal interest and self-advancement, and therefore free to give their full sympathy and
devotion to the children under their charge. They have also the independence of their corporate
life, a great power behind the service of the schoolroom in which they find mutual support,
an "Upper Boom" to which they can withdraw and build up again in prayer and intercourse with
one another their ideals of life and duty in an atmosphere which gives a more spiritual re-renewal
of energy than a holiday of entire forgetfulness.

It is striking to observe that while the so-called Catholic countries are banishing religious
from their schools, there is more and more inclination among non-Catholic parents who have
had experience of other systems to place their children under the care of religious. And it
was strange to hear one of His Majesty's Inspectors express his conviction that "it would be
ideal if all England could be taught by nuns!" Thus indirect testimony comes from friendly
or hostile sources to the fact that the Church holds the secret of education, and every Catholic
teacher may gain courage from the knowledge of having that which is beyond all price in the
education of children, that which all the world is seeking for, and which the Church alone
knows that she possesses in its fulness.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ELEMENTS OF CATHOLIC PHILOSOPHY.

"E quosto ti sia sempre piombo ai piedi,
  Per farti mover lento, com' uom lasso,
  Ed al si ed al no, che tu non vedi;
Che quegli e tra gli stolti bene abbasso,
  Che senza disfcinzion afferma o nega,
  Nell' un cosi come nell' altro passo;
Perch' egl' incontra che piu volte piega
  L' opinion corrente in falsa parte,
  E poi l' affetto lo intelletto lega.
Vie piu che indarno da riva si parte,
  Perche non toma tal qual ei si move,
  Chi pesca per lo vero e noil ha l' arte."
          DANTE, "Paradiso," Canto XIII.

The elements of Catholic philosophy may no longer be looked upon as out of place in the education
of our girls, or as being reserved for the use of learned women and girlish oddities. They
belong to every well-grounded Catholic education, and the need for them will be felt more and
more. They are wanted to balance on the one hand the unthinking impulse of living for the day,
which asks no questions so long as the "fun" holds out, and on the other to meet the urgency
of problems which press upon the minds of the more thoughtful as they grow up. When this teaching
has been long established as part of an educational plan it has been found to give steadiness
and unity to the whole; something to aim at from the beginning, and in the later years of a
girl's education something which will serve as foundation for all branches of future study,
so that each will find its place among the first principles, not isolated from the others but
as part of a whole. The value of these elements for the practical guidance of life is likewise
very great. A hold is given in the mind to the teaching of religion and conduct which welds
into one defence the best wisdom of this world and of the next. For instance, the connexion
between reason and faith being once established, the fear of permanent disagreement between
the two, which causes so much panic and disturbance of mind, is set at rest.

There is a certain risk at the outset of these studies that girls will take the pose of philosophical
students, and talk logic and metaphysics, to the confusion of their friends and of their own
feelings later on, when they come to years of discretion and realize the absurdity of these
"lively sallies," as they would have been called in early Victorian times--the name alone might
serve as a warning to the incautious! They may perhaps go through an argumentative period and
trample severely upon the opinions of those who are not ready to have their majors "distinguished"
and their minors "conceded," and, especially, their conclusions denied. But these phases will
be outlived and the hot-and-cold remembrance of them will be sufficient expiation, with the
realization that they did not know much when they had taken in the "beggarly elements" which
dazzled them for a moment. The more thoughtful minds will escape the painful phase altogether.

There are three special classes among girls whose difficulties of mind call for attention.
There are those who frisk playfully along, taking the good things of life as they come--"the
more the better"--whom, as children, it is hard to call to account. They are lightly impressed
and only for a moment by the things they feel, and scarcely moved at all by the things they
understand. The only side which seems troublesome in their early life is that there is so little
hold upon it. They are unembarrassed and quite candid about their choice; it is the enjoyable
good, life on its pleasantest side. And this disposition is in the mind as well as in the will;
they cannot see it in any other way. Restraint galls them, and their inclination is not to
resist but to evade it. These are kitten-like children in the beginning, and they appear charming.
But when the kitten in them is overgrown, its playful evasiveness takes an ugly contour and
shows itself as want of principle. The tendency to snatch at enjoyment hardens into a grasping
sense of market values, and conscience, instead of growing inexorable, learns to be pliant
to circumstances. Debts weigh lightly, and duties scarcely weigh at all. Concealment and un-truthfulness
come in very easily to save the situation in a difficulty, and once the conduct of life is
on the down-grade it slides quickly and far, for the sense of responsibility is lacking and
these natures own no bond of obligation. They have their touch of piety in childhood, but it
soon wears off, and in its best days cannot stand the demands made upon it by duty; it fails
of its hold upon the soul, like a religion without a sacrifice. In these minds some notions
of ethics leave a barbed arrow of remorse which penetrates further than piety. They may soothe
themselves with the thought that God will easily forgive, later on, but they cannot quite lose
consciousness of the law which does not forgive, of the responsibility of human acts and the
inevitable punishment of wrong-doing which works itself out, till it calls for payment of the
last farthing. And by this rough way of remorse they may come back to God. Pope Leo XIII spoke
of it as their best hope, an almost certain means of return. The beautiful also may make its
appeal to these natures on their best side, and save them preventively from themselves, but
only if the time of study is prolonged enough for the laws of order and beauty to be made comprehensible
to them, so that if they admire the best, remorse may have another hold and reproach them with
a lowered ideal.

In opposition to these are the minds to which, as soon as they become able to think for themselves,
all life is a puzzle, and on every side, wherever they turn, they are baffled by unanswerable
questions. These questions are often more insistent and more troublesome because they cannot
be asked, they have not even taken shape in the mind. But they haunt and perplex it. Are they
the only ones who do not know? Is it clear to every one else? This doubt makes it difficult
even to hint at the perplexity. These are often naturally religious minds, and outside the
guidance of the Catholic Church, in search of truth, they easily fall under the influence of
different schools of thought which take them out of their depth, and lead them further and
further from the reasonable certainty about first principles which they are in search of. Within
the Church, of course, they can never stray so far, and the truths of faith supply their deepest
needs. But if they want to know more, to know something of themselves, and to have at least
some rational knowledge of the universe, then to give them a hold on the elements of philosophical
knowledge is indeed a mental if not a spiritual work of mercy, for it enables them to set their
ideas in order by the light of a few first principles, it shows them on what plane their questions
lie, it enables them to see how all knowledge and new experience have connexions with what
has gone before, and belong to a whole with a certain fitness and proportion. They learn also
thus to take themselves in hand in a reasonable way; they gain some power of attributing effects
to their true causes, so as neither to be unduly alarmed nor elated at the various experiences
through which they will pass.

Between these two divisions lies a large group, that of the "average person," not specially
flighty and not particularly thoughtful. But the average person is of very great importance.
The greatest share in the work of the world is probably done by "average" people, not only
for the obvious reason that there are more of them, but also because they are more accessible,
more reliable, and more available for all kinds of responsibility than those who have made
themselves useless by want of principle, or those whose genius carries them away from the ordinary
line. They are accessible because their fellow-creatures are not afraid of them; they are not
too fine for ordinary wear, nor too original to be able to follow a line laid down for them,
and if they take a line of their own it is usually intelligible to others.

To these valuable "average" persons the importance of some study of the elements of philosophy
is very great. They can hardly go through an elementary course of mental science without wishing
to learn more, and being lifted to a higher plane. The weak point in the average person is
a tendency to sink into the commonplace, because the consciousness of not being brilliant induces
timidity, and timidity leads to giving up effort and accepting a fancied impossibility of development
which from being supposed, assumed, and not disturbed, becomes in the end real.

On the other hand the strong point of the average person is very often common sense, that singular,
priceless gift which gives a touch of likeness among those who possess it in all classes, high
or low--in the sovereign, the judge, the ploughman, or the washerwoman, a likeness that is
somewhat like a common language among them and makes them almost like a class apart. Minds
endowed with common sense are an aristocracy among the "average," and if this quality of theirs
is lifted above the ordinary round of business and trained in the domain of thought it becomes
a sound and wide practical judgment. It will observe a great sobriety in its dealings with
the abstract; the concrete is its kingdom, but it will rule the better for having its ideas
systematized, and its critical power developed. Self-diffidence tends to check this unduly,
and it has to be strengthened in reasonably supporting its own opinion which is often instinctively
true, but fails to find utterance. It is a help to such persons if they can learn to follow
the workings of their own mind and gain confidence in their power to understand, and find some
intellectual interest in the drudgery which in every order of things, high or low, is so willingly
handed over to their good management. These results may not be showy, but it is a great thing
to strengthen an "average" person, and the reward of doing so is sometimes the satisfaction
of seeing that average mind rise in later years quite above the average and become a tower
of steady reflection; while to itself it is a new life to gain a view of things as a whole,
to find that nothing stands alone, but that the details which it grasps in so masterly a manner
have their place and meaning in the scheme of the universe.

It is evident that even this elementary knowledge cannot be given in the earliest years of
the education of girls, and that it is only possible to attempt it in schools and school-rooms
where they can be kept on for a longer time of study. Every year that can be added to the usual
course is of better value, and more appreciated, except by those who are restless to come out
as soon as possible. No reference is made here to those exceptional cases in which girls are
allowed to begin a course of study at a time when the majority have been obliged to finish
their school life.

As the elements of philosophy are not ordinarily found in the curriculum of girls' schools
or schoolroom plans, it may not be out of place to say a few words on the method of bringing
the subject within their reach.

In the first place it should be kept in view from the beginning, and some preparation be made
for it even in teaching the elements of subjects which are most elementary. Thus the study
of any grammar may serve remotely as an introduction to logic, even English grammar which,
beyond a few rudiments, is a most disinterested study, valuable for its by-products more than
for its actual worth. But the practice of grammatical analysis is certainly a preparation for
logic, as logic is a preparation for the various branches of philosophy. Again some preliminary
exercises in definition, and any work of the like kind which gives precision in the use of
language, or clear ideas of the meanings of words, is preparatory work which trains the mind
in the right direction. In the same way the elements of natural science may at least set the
thoughts and inquiries of children on the right track for what will later on be shown to them
as the "disciplines" of cosmology and pyschology.

To make preparatory subjects serve such a purpose it is obviously required that the teachers
of even young children should have been themselves trained in these studies, so far at least
as to know what they are aiming at, to be able to lay foundations which will not require to
be reconstructed. It is not the matter so much as the habits of mind and work that are remotely
prepared in the early stages, but without some knowledge of what is coming afterwards this
preparation cannot be made. In order of arrangement it is not possible for the different branches
to be taught to girls according to their normal sequence; they have to be adapted to the capacity
of the minds and their degree of development. Some branches cannot even be attempted during
the school-room years, except so far as to prepare the mind incidentally during the study of
other branches. The explanation of certain terms and fundamental notions will serve as points
of departure when opportunities for development are accessible later on, as architects set
"toothings" at the angles of buildings that they may be bonded into later constructions. By
this means the names of the more abstruse branches are kept out of sight, and it is emphasized
that the barest elements alone are within reach at present, so that the permanent impression
may be--not "how much I have learned," but "how little I know and how much there is to learn."
This secures at least a fitting attitude of mind in those who will never go further, and increases
the thirst of those who really want more.

The most valuable parts of philosophy in the education of girls are:--

1. Those which belong to the practical side--logic, for thought; ethics, for conduct; aesthetics,
for the study of the arts.

2. In speculative philosophy the "disciplines" which are most accessible and most necessary
are psychology, and natural theology which is the very crown of all that they are able to learn.

General metaphysics and cosmology, and in pyschology the subordinate treatises of criteriology
and idealogy are beyond their scope.

Logic, as a science, is not a suitable introduction, though some general notions on the subject
are necessary as preliminary instructions. Cardinal Mercier presents these under "propaedeutics,"
even for his grown-up scholars, placing logic properly so called in its own rank as the complement
of the other treatises of speculative philosophy, seen in retrospect, a science of rational
order amongst sciences.

The "notions of logic" with which he introduces the other branches are, says the Cardinal,
so plain that it is almost superfluous to enumerate them, "tant elles sont de simple bon sens,"
[1--"Traite Elfementaire de Philosophie," Vol. I, Introduction.] and he disposes of them in
two pages of his textbook. Obviously this is not so simple when it comes to preparing the fallow
ground of a girl's mind; but it gives some idea of the proportion to be observed in the use
of this instrument at the outset, and may save both the teacher and the child from beguiling
themselves to little purpose among the moods and figures of the syllogism. The preliminary
notions of logic must be developed, extended, and supplemented through the whole course as
necessity arises, just as they have been already anticipated through the preparatory work done
in every elementary subject. This method is not strictly scientific nor in accordance with
the full-grown course of philosophy; it only claims to have "le simple bon sens" in its favour,
and the testimony of experience to prove that it is of use. And it cannot be said to be wholly
out of rational order if it follows the normal development of a growing mind, and answers questions
as they arise and call for solution. It may be a rustic way of learning the elements of philosophy,
but it answers its purpose, and does not interfere with more scientific and complete methods
which may come later in order of time.

The importance of the "discipline" of psychology can scarcely be over-estimated. With that
of ethics it gives to the minds of women that which they most need for the happy attainment
of their destiny in any sphere of life and for the fulfilment of its obligations. They must
know themselves and their own powers in order to exercise control and direction on the current
of their lives. The complaint made of many women is that they are wanting in self-control,
creatures of impulse, erratic, irresponsible, at the mercy of chance influences that assume
control of their lives for the moment, subject to "nerves," carried away by emotional enthusiasm
beyond all bounds, and using a blind tenacity of will to land themselves with the cause they
have embraced in a dead-lock of absurdity.

Such is the complaint. It would seem more pardonable if this tendency to extremes and impulsiveness
were owned to as a defect. But to be erratic is almost assumed as a pose. It is taken up as
if self-discipline were dull, and control reduced vitality and killed the interest of life.
The phase may not last, stronger counsels may prevail again. In a few years it may be hoped
that this school of "impressionism" in conduct will be out of vogue, but for the moment it
would seem as if its weakness and mobility, and restlessness were rather admired. It has created
a kind of automobilism--if the word may be allowed--of mind and manners, an inclination to
be perpetually "on the move," too much pressed for time to do anything at all, permanently
unsettled, in fact to be unsettled is its habitual condition if not its recognized plan of life.

It is not contended that psychology and ethics would of themselves cure this tendency, but
they would undoubtedly aid in doing so, for the confusion of wanting to do better and yet not
knowing what to do is a most pathetic form of helplessness. A little knowledge of psychology
would at least give an idea of the resources which the human soul has at its command when it
seeks to take itself in hand. It would allow of some response to a reasonable appeal from outside.
And all the time the first principles of ethics would refuse to be killed in the mind, and
would continue to bear witness against the waste of existence and the diversion of life from
its true end.

Rational principles of aesthetics belong very intimately to the education of women. Their ideas
of beauty, their taste in art, influence very powerfully their own lives and those of others,
and may transfigure many things which are otherwise liable to fall into the commonplace and
the vulgar. If woman's taste is trained to choose the best, it upholds a standard which may
save a generation from decadence. This concerns the beautiful and the fitting in all things
where the power of art makes itself felt as "the expression of an ideal in a concrete work
capable of producing an impression and attaching the beholder to that ideal which it presents
for admiration." [1--Cardinal Mercier, "General Metaphysics," Part iv., Ch. iv.] It touches
on all questions of taste, not only in the fine arts but in fiction, and furniture, and dress,
and all the minor arts of life and adaptation of human skill to the external conditions of
living. The importance of all these in their effect on the happiness and goodness of a whole
people is a plea for not leaving out the principles of aesthetics, as well as the practice
of some form of art from the education of girls.

The last and most glorious treatise in philosophy of which some knowledge can be given at the
end of a school course is that of natural theology. If it is true, as they say, that St. Thomas
Aquinas at the age of five years used to go round to the monks of Monte Cassino pulling them
down by the sleeve to whisper his inquiry, "quid est Deus"? it may be hoped that older children
are not incapable of appreciating some of the first notions that may be drawn from reason about
the Creator, those truths "concerning the existence of God which are the supreme conclusion
and crown of the department of physics, and those concerning His nature which apply the truths
of general metaphysics to a determinate being, the Absolutely Perfect." [1--Cardinal Mercier,
"Natural Theology," Introduction.] It is in the domain of natural theology that they will often
find a safeguard against difficulties which may occur later in life, when they meet inquirers
whose questions about God are not so ingenuous as that of the infant St. Thomas. The armour
of their faith will not be so easily pierced by chance shots as if they were without preparation,
and at the same time they will know enough of the greatness of the subject not to challenge
"any unbeliever" to single combat, and undertake to prove against all opponents the existence
and perfections of God.

For instruction as well as for defence the relation of philosophy to revealed truth should
be explained. It is necessary to point out that while science has its own sphere within which
it is independent, having its own principles and methods and means of certitude, [1--De Bonald
and others were condemned and reproved by Gregory XVI for teaching that reason drew its first
principles and grounds of certitude from revelation.] yet the Church as the guardian of revealed
truth is obliged to prosecute for trespass those who in teaching any science encroach by affirmation
or contradiction on the domain of revelation.

To sum up, therefore, logic can train the students to discriminate between good and bad arguments,
which few ordinary readers can do, and not even every writer. Ethics teaches the rational basis
of morals which it is useful for all to know, and psychology can teach to discriminate between
the acts of intellect and will on the one hand and imagination and emotion on the other, and
so furnish the key to many a puzzle of thought that has led to false and dangerous theorizing.

The method of giving instruction in the different branches of philosophy will depend so much
on the preparation of the particular pupils, and also on the cast of mind of the teachers,
that it is difficult to offer suggestions, except to point out this very fact that each mind
needs to be met just where it is--with its own mental images, vocabulary, habit of thought
and attention, all calling for consideration and adaptation of the subject to their particular
case. It depends on the degree of preparation of the teachers to decide whether the form of
a lecture is safest, or whether they can risk themselves in the arena of question and answer,
the most useful in itself but requiring a far more complete training in preparation. If it
can be obtained that the pupils state their own questions and difficulties in writing, a great
deal will have been gained, for a good statement of a question is half-way to the right solution.
If, after hearing a lecture or oral lesson, they can answer in writing Borne simple questions
carefully stated, it will be a further advance. It is something to grasp accurately the scope
of a question. The plague of girls' answers is usually irrelevancy from want of thought as
to the scope of questions or even from inattention to their wording. If they can be patient
in face of unanswered difficulties, and wait for the solution to come later on in its natural
course, then at least one small fruit of their studies will have been brought to maturity;
and if at the end of their elementary course they are convinced of their own ignorance, and
want to know more, it may be said that the course has not been unsuccessful.

It is not, however, complete unless they know something of the history of philosophy, the great
schools, and the names which have been held in honour from the beginning down to our own days.
They will realize that it is good to have been born in their own time, and to learn such lessons
now that the revival of scholastic philosophy under Leo XIII and the development of the neo-scholastic
teaching have brought fresh life into the philosophy of tradition, which although it appears
to put new wine into old bottles, seems able to preserve the wine and the bottles together.

CHAPTER V.

THE REALITIES OF LIFE.
                        BROWNING, "Rabbi Ben Ezra."
"Eh, Dieu! nous marchons trop en enfants--cela me fache!"
                        ST. JANE FRANCES DE CHANTAL.

One of the problems which beset school education, and especially education in boarding schools,
is the difficulty of combining the good things it can give with the best preparation for after
life. This preparation has to be made under circumstances which necessarily keep children away
from many of the realities that have to be faced in the future.

To be a small member of a large organization has an excellent effect upon the mind. From the
presence of numbers a certain dignity gathers round many things that would in themselves be
insignificant. Ideas of corporate life with its obligations and responsibilities are gained.
Honoured traditions and ideals are handed down if the school has a history and spirit of its
own. There are impressive and solemn moments in the life of a large school which remain in
the memory as something beautiful and great. The close of a year, with its retrospect and anticipation,
its restrained emotion from the pathos which attends all endings and beginnings in life, fills
even the younger children with some transient realization of the meaning of it all, and lifts
them up to a dim sense of the significance of existence, while for the elder ones such days
leave engraven upon the mind thoughts which can never be effaced. These deep impressions belong
especially to old-established schools, and are bound up with their past, with their traditional
tone, and the aims that are specially theirs. In this they cannot be rivalled. The school-room
at home is always the school-room, it has no higher moods, no sentiment of its own.

There are diversities of gifts for school and for home education; for impressiveness a large
school has the advantage. It is also, in general, better off in the quality of its teachers,
and it can turn their rifts to better account. A modern governess would require to be a host
in herself to supply the varied demands of a girl's education, in the subjects to be taught,
in companionship and personal influence, in the training of character, in watching over physical
development, and even if she should possess in herself all that would be needed, there is the
risk of "incompatibility of temperament" which makes a tete-a-tete life in the school-room
trying on both sides. School has the advantage of bringing the influence of many minds to bear,
so that it is rare that a child should pass through a school course without coming in contact
with some who awaken and understand and influence her for good. It offers too the chance of
making friends, and though "sets" and cliques, plagues of school life, may give trouble and
unsettle the weaker minds from time to time, yet if the current of the school is healthy it
will set against them, and on the other hand the choicest and best friendships often begin
and grow to maturity in the common life of school. The sodalities and congregations in Catholic
schools are training grounds within the general system of training, in which higher ideals
are aimed at, the obligation of using influence for good is pressed home, and the instincts
of leadership turned to account for the common good. Lastly, among the advantages of school
may be counted a general purpose and plan in the curriculum, and better appliances for methodical
teaching than are usually available in private school-rooms, and where out-door games are in
honour they add a great zest to school life.

But, as in all human things, there are drawbacks to school education, and because it is in
the power of those who direct its organization to counteract some of these drawbacks, it is
worth while to examine them and consider the possible remedies.

In the first place it will probably be agreed that boarding-school life is not desirable for
very young children, as their well-being requires more elasticity in rule and occupations than
is possible if they are together in numbers. Little children, out of control and excited, are
a misery to themselves and to each other, and if they are kept in hand enough to protect the
weaker ones from the exuberant energy of the stronger, then the strictness chafes them all,
and spontaneity is too much checked. The informal play which is possible at home, with the
opportunities for quiet and even solitude, are much better for young children than the atmosphere
of school, though a day-school, with the hours of home life in between, is sometimes successfully
adapted to their wants. But the special cases which justify parents in sending young children
to boarding schools are numerous, now that established home life is growing more rare, and
they have to be counted with in any large school. It can only be said that the yoke ought to
be made as light as possible--short lessons, long sleep, very short intervals of real application
of mind, as much open air as possible, bright rooms, and a mental atmosphere that tends to
calm rather than to excite them. They should be saved from the petting of the elder girls,
in whom this apparent kindness is often a selfish pleasure, bad on both sides.

For older children the difficulties are not quite the same, and instead of forcing them on
too fast, school life may even keep them back. When children are assembled together in considerable
numbers the intellectual level is that of the middle class of mind and does not favour the
best, the outlook and conversation are those of the average, the language and vocabulary are
on the same level, with a tendency to sink rather than to rise, and though emulation may urge
on the leading spirits and keep them at racing speed, this does not quicken the interest in
knowledge for its own sake, and the work is apt to slacken when the stimulus is withdrawn.
And all the time there is comfort to the easy-going average in the consciousness of how many
there are behind them.

The necessity for organization and foresight in detail among large numbers is also unfavourable
to individual development. For children to find everything prepared for them, to feel no friction
in the working of the machinery, so that all happens as it ought to, without effort and personal
trouble on their part, to be told what to do, and only have to follow the bells for the ordering
of their time--all this tends to diminish their resourcefulness and their patience with the
unforeseen checks and cross-purposes and mistakes that they will have to put up with on leaving
school. As a matter of fact the more perfect the school machinery, the smoother its working,
the less does it prepare for the rutty road afterwards, and in this there is some consolation
when school machinery jars from time to time in the working; if it teaches patience it is not
altogether regrettable, and the little trouble which may arise in the material order is perhaps
more educating than the regularity which has been disturbed.

We are beginning to believe what has never ceased to be said, that lessons in lesson-books
are not the whole of education. The whole system of teaching in the elementary schools has
been thrown off its balance by too many lesson-books, but it is righting itself again, and
some of the memoranda on teaching, issued by the Board of Education within the last few years,
are quite admirable in their practical suggestions for promoting a more efficient preparation
for life. The Board now insists on the teaching of handicrafts, training of the senses in observation,
development of knowledge, taste, and skill in various departments which are useful for life,
and for girls especially on things which make the home. The same thing is wanted in middle-class
education, though parents of the middle-class still look a little askance at household employments
for their daughters. But children of the wealthier and upper classes take to them as a birthright,
with the cordial assent of their parents and the applause of the doctors. It is for these children,
so well-disposed for a practical education, and able to carry its influence so far, that we
may consider what can be done in school life.

We ourselves who have to do with children must first appreciate the realities of life before
we can communicate this understanding to others or give the right spirit to those we teach.
And "the realities of life" may stand as a name for all those things which have to be learned
in order to live, and which lesson-books do not teach. The realities of life are not material
things, but they are very deeply wrought in with material things. There are things to be done,
and things to be made, and things to be ordered and controlled, belonging to the primitive
wants of human life, and to all those fundamental cares which have to support it. They are
best learned in the actual doing from those who know how to do them; for although manuals and
treatises exist for every possible department of skill and activity, yet the human voice and
hand go much further in making knowledge acceptable than the textbook with diagrams. The dignity
of manual labour comes home from seeing it well done, it is shown to be worth doing and deserving
of honour.

Something which cannot be shown to children, but it will come to them later on as an inheritance,
is the effect of manual work upon their whole being. Manual work gives balance and harmony
in the development of the growing creature. A child does not attain its full power unless every
faculty is exercised in turn, and to think that hard mental work alternated with hard physical
exercise will give it full and wholesome development is to ignore whole provinces of its possessions.
Generally speaking, children have to take the value of their mental work on the faith of our
word. They must go through a great deal in mastering the rudiments of, say, Latin grammar (for
the honey is not yet spread so thickly over this as it is now over the elements of modern languages).
They must wonder why "grown-ups" have such an infatuation for things that seem out of place
and inappropriate in life as they consider it worth living. Probably it is on this account
that so many artificial rewards and inducements have had to be brought in to sustain their
efforts. Physical exercise is a joy to healthy children, but it leaves nothing behind as a
result. Children are proud of what they have done and made themselves. They lean upon the concrete,
and to see as the result of their efforts something which lasts, especially something useful,
as a witness to their power and skill, this is a reward in itself and needs no artificial stimulus,
though to measure their own work in comparative excellence with that of others adds an element
that quickens the desire to do well. Children will go quietly back again and again to look,
without saying anything, at something they have made with their own hands, their eyes telling
all that it means to them, beyond what they can express.

With its power of ministering to harmonious development of the faculties manual work has a
direct influence on fitness for home and social life. It greatly develops good sense and aptitude
for dealing with ordinary difficulties as they arise. In common emergencies it is the "handy"
member of the household whose judgment and help are called upon, not the brilliant person or
one who has specialized in any branch, but the one who can do common things and can invent
resources when experience fails. When the specialist is at fault and the artist waits for inspiration,
the handy person conies in and saves the situation, unprofessionally, like the bone-setter,
without much credit, but to the great comfort of every one concerned.

Manual work likewise saves from eccentricity or helps to correct it. Eccentricity may appear
harmless and even interesting, but in practice it is found to be a drawback, enfeebling some
sides of a character, throwing the judgment at least on some points out of focus. In children
it ought to be recognized as a defect to be counteracted. When people have an overmastering
genius which of itself marks out for them a special way of excellence, some degree of eccentricity
is easily pardoned, and almost allowable. But eccentricity unaccompanied by genius is mere
uncorrected selfishness, or want of mental balance. It is selfishness if it could be corrected
and is not, because it makes exactions from others without return. It will not adapt itself
to them but insists on being taken as it is, whether acceptable or not. At best, eccentricity
is a morbid tendency liable to run into extremes when its habits are undisturbed. An excuse
sometimes made for eccentricity is that it is a security against any further mental aberration,
perhaps on the same principle that inoculation producing a mild form of diseases is sometimes
a safeguard against their attacks. But if the mind and habits of life can be brought under
control, so as to take part in ordinary affairs without attracting attention or having exemptions
and allowance made for them, a result of a far higher order will have been attained. To recognize
eccentricity as selfishness is a first step to its cure, and to make oneself serviceable to
others is the simplest corrective. Whatever else they may be, "eccentrics" are not generally
serviceable.

Children of vivid imagination, nervously excitable and fragile in constitution, rather easily
fall into little eccentric ways which grow very rapidly and are hard to overcome. One of the
commonest of these is talking to themselves. Sitting still, making efforts to apply their minds
to lessons for more than a short time, accentuates the tendency by nerve fatigue. In reaction
against fatigue the mind falls into a vacant state and that is the best condition for the growth
of eccentricities and other mental troubles. If their attention is diverted from themselves,
and yet fixed with the less exhausting concentration which belongs to manual work, this diversion
into another channel, with its accompany bodily movement, will restore the normal balance,
and the little eccentric pose will be forgotten; this is better than being noticed and laughed
at and formally corrected.

Manual employments, especially if varied, and household occupations afford a great variety,
give to children a sense of power in knowing what to do in a number of circumstances; they
take pleasure in this, for it is a thing which they admire in others. Domestic occupations
also form in them a habit of decision, from the necessity of getting through things which will
not wait. For domestic duties do not allow of waiting for a moment of inspiration or delaying
until a mood of depression or indifference has passed. They have a quiet, imperious way of
commanding, and an automatic system of punishing when they are neglected, which are more convincing
that exhortations. Perhaps in this particular point lies their saving influence against nerves
and moodiness and the demoralization of "giving way." Those who have no obligations, whose
work will wait for their convenience, and who can if they please let everything go for a time,
are more easily broken down by trouble than those whose household duties still have to be done,
in the midst of sorrow and trial. There is something in homely material duties which heals
and calms the mind and gives it power to come back to itself. And in sudden calamities those
who know how to make use of their hands do not helplessly wring them, or make trouble worse
by clinging to others for support.

Again, circumstances sometimes arise in school life which make light household duties an untold
boon for particular children. Accidental causes, troubles of eyesight, or too rapid growth,
etc., may make regular study for a time impossible to them. These children become exempt persons,
and even if they are able to take some part in the class work the time of preparation is heavy
on their hands. Exempt persons easily develop undesirable qualities, and their apparent privileges
are liable to unsettle others. As a matter of fact those who are able to keep the common life
have the best of it, but they are apt to look upon the exemption of others as enviable, as
they long for gipsy life when a caravan passes by. With the resource of household employment
to give occupation it becomes apparent that exemption does not mean holiday, but the substitution
of one duty or lesson for another, and this is a principle which holds good in after life--that
except in case of real illness no one is justified in having nothing to do.

Lastly, the work of the body is good for the soul, it drives out silliness as effectually as
the rod, since that which was of old considered as the instrument for exterminating the "folly
bound up in the heart of a child," has been laid aside in the education of girls. It is a great
weapon against the seven devils of whom one is Sloth and another Pride, and it prepares a sane
mind in a sound body for the discipline of after life.

Experience bears its own testimony to the failure of an education which is out of touch with
the material requirements of life. It leaves an incomplete power of expression, and some dead
points in the mind from which no response can be awakened. To taste of many experiences seems
to be necessary for complete development. When on the material side all is provided without
forethought, and people are exempt from all care and obligation, a whole side of development
is wanting, and on that side the mind remains childish, inexperienced, and unreal. The best
mental development is accomplished under the stress of many demands. One claim balances the
other; a touch of hardness and privation gives strength of mind and makes self-denial a reality;
a little anxiety teaches foresight and draws out resourcefulness, and the tendency to fret
about trifles is corrected by the contact of the realities of life.

To come to practice--What can be done for girls during their years at school?

In the first place the teaching of the fundamental handicraft of women, needlework, deserves
a place of honour. In many schools it has almost perished by neglect, or the thorns of the
examination programme have grown up and choked it. This misfortune has been fairly common where
the English "University Locals" and the Irish "Intermediate" held sway. There literally was
not time for it, and the loss became so general that it was taken as a matter of course, scarcely
regretted; to the children themselves, so easily carried off by vogue, it became almost a matter
for self-complacency, "not to be able to hold a needle" was accepted as an indication of something
superior in attainments. And it must be owned that there were certain antiquated methods of
teaching the art which made it quite excusable to "hate needlework." One "went through so much
to learn so little"; and the results depending so often upon help from others to bring them
to any conclusion, there was no sense of personal achievement in a work accomplished. Others
planned, cut out and prepared the work, and the child came in as an unwilling and imperfect
sewing machine merely to put in the stitches. The sense of mastery over material was not developed,
yet that is the only way in which a child's attainment of skill can be linked on to the future.
What cannot be done without help always at hand drops out of life, and likewise that which
calls for no application of mind.

To reach independence in the practical arts of life is an aim that will awaken interests and
keep up efforts, and teachers have only a right to be satisfied when their pupils can do without
them. This is not the finishing point of a course of teaching, it is a whole system, beginning
in the first steps and continuing progressively to the end. It entails upon teachers much labour,
much thought, and the sacrifice of showy results. The first look of finish depends more upon
the help of the teacher than upon the efforts of children. Their results must be waited for,
and they will in the early years have a humbler, more rough-hewn look than those in which expert
help has been given. But the educational advantages are not to be compared.

A four years' course, two hours per week, gives a thorough   grounding in plain needlework,
and girls are then capable of beginning dressmaking, in they can reach a very reasonable proficiency
when they leave school. Whether they turn this to practical account in their own homes, or
make use of it in Clothing Societies and Needlework Guilds for the poor, the knowledge is of
real value. If fortune deals hardly with them, and they are thrown on their own resources later
in life, it is evident that to make their own clothes is a form of independence for which they
will be very thankful. Another branch of needlework that ought to form part of every Catholic
girl's education is that of work for the Church in which there is room for every capacity,
from the hemming of the humblest lavabo towel to priceless works of art embroidered by queens
for the popes and bishops of their time.

"First aid," and a few practical principles of nursing, can sometimes be profitably taught
in school, if time is made for a few lessons, perhaps during one term. The difficulty of finding
time even adds to the educational value, since the conditions of life outside do not admit
of uniform intervals between two bells. Enough can be taught to make girls able to take their
share helpfully in cases of illness in their homes, and it is a branch of usefulness in which
a few sensible notions go a long way.

General self-help is difficult to define or describe, but it can be taught at school more than
would appear at first sight, if only those engaged in the education of children will bear in
mind that the triumph of their devotedness is to enable children to do without them. This is
much more laborious than to do things efficiently and admirably for them, but it is real education.
They can be taught as mothers would teach them at home, to mend and keep their things in order,
to prepare for journeys, pack their own boxes, be responsible for their labels and keys, write
orders to shops, to make their own beds, dust their private rooms, and many other things which
will readily occur to those who have seen the pitiful sight of girls unable to do them.

Finally, simple and elementary cooking comes well within the scope of the education of elder
girls at school. But it must be taught seriously to make it worth while, and as in the teaching
of needlework, the foundations must be plain. To begin by fancy-work in one case and bonbons
in the other turns the whole instruction into a farce. In this subject especially, the satisfaction
of producing good work, well done, without help, is a result which justifies all the trouble
that may be spent upon it. When girls have, by themselves, brought to a happy conclusion the
preparation of a complete meal, their very faces bear witness to the educational value of the
success. They are not elated nor excited, but wear the look of quiet contentment which seems
to come from contact with primitive things. This look alone on a girl's face gives a beauty
of its own, something becoming, and fitting, and full of promise. No expression is equal to
it in the truest charm, for quiet contentment is the atmosphere which in the future, whatever
may be her lot, ought to be diffused by her presence, an atmosphere of security and rest.

Perhaps at first sight it seems an exaggeration to link so closely together the highest natural
graces of a woman with those lowliest occupations, but let the effects be compared by those
who have examined other systems of instruction. If they have considered the outcome of an exclusively
intellectual education for girls, especially one loaded with subjects in sections to be "got
up" for purposes of examination, and compared it with one into which the practical has largely
entered, they can hardly fail to agree that the latter is the best preparation for life, not
only physically and morally but mentally. During the stress of examinations lined foreheads,
tired eyes, shallow breathing, angular movements tell their own story of strain, and when it
is over a want of resourcefulness in finding occupation shows that a whole side has remained
undeveloped. The possibility of turning to some household employments would give rest without
idleness; it would save from two excesses in a time of reaction, from the exceeding weariness
of having nothing to do, the real misery of an idle life, and on the other hand from craving
for excitement and constant change through fear of this unoccupied vacancy.

One other point is worth consideration. The "servant question" is one which looms larger and
larger as a household difficulty. There are stories of great and even royal households being
left in critical moments at the mercy of servants' tempers, of head cooks "on strike" or negligent
personal attendants. And from these down to the humblest employers of a general servant the
complaint is the same--servants so independent, so exacting, good servants not to be had, so
difficult to get things properly done, etc. These complaints give very strong warning that
helpless dependence on servants is too great a risk to be accepted, and that every one in ordinary
stations of life should be at least able to be independent of personal service. The expansion
of colonial life points in the same direction. The "simple life" is talked of at home, but
it is really lived in the colonies. Those who brace themselves to its hardness find a vigour
and resourcefulness within them which they had never suspected, and the pride of personal achievement
in making a home brings out possibilities which in softer circumstances might have remained
for ever dormant, with their treasure of happiness and hardy virtues. It is possible, no doubt,
in that severe and plain life to lose many things which are not replaced by its self-reliance
and hardihood. It is possible to drop into merely material preoccupation in the struggle for
existence. But it is also possible not to do so, and the difference lies in having an ideal.

To Catholics even work in the wilderness and life in the backwoods are not dissociated from
the most spiritual ideals. The pioneers of the Church, St. Benedict's monks, have gone before
in the very same labour of civilization when Europe was to a great extent still in backwoods.
And, when they sanctified their days in prayer and hard labour, poetry did not forsake them,
and learning even took refuge with them in their solitude to wait for better times. It was
religion which attracted both. Without their daily service of prayer, the Opus Dei, and the
assiduous copying of books, and the desire to build worthy churches for the worship of God,
arts and learning would not have followed the monks into the wilderness, but their life would
have dropped to the dead level of the squatter's existence. In the same way family life, if
toilsome, either at home or in a new country, may be inspired by the example of the Holy Family
in Nazareth; and in lonely and hard conditions, as well as in the stress of our crowded ways
of living, the influence of that ideal reaches down to the foundations and transfigures the
very humblest service of the household.

These primitive services which are at the foundation of all home life are in themselves the
same in all places and times. There is in them something almost sacred; they are sane, wholesome,
stable, amid the weary perpetual change of artificial additions which add much to the cares
but little to the joys of life. There is a long distance between the labours of Benedictine
monks and the domestic work possible for school girls, but the principles fundamental to both
are the same--happiness in willing work, honour to manual labour, service of God in humble
offices. The work of lay-sisters in some religious houses, where they understand the happiness
of their lot, links the two extremes together across the centuries. The jubilant onset of their
company in some laborious work is like an anthem rising to God, bearing witness to the happiness
of labour where it is part of His service. They are the envy of the choir religious, and in
the precincts of such religious houses children unconsciously learn the dignity of manual labour,
and feel themselves honoured by having any share in it. Such labour can be had for love, but
not for money.

One word must be added before leaving the subject of the realities of life. Worn time to time
a rather emphatic school lifts up its voice in the name of plain speaking and asks for something
beyond reality--for realism, for anticipated instruction on the duties and especially on the
dangers of grown-up life. It will be sufficient to suggest three points for consideration in
this matter: (1) That these demands are not made by fathers and mothers, but appear to come
from those whose interest in children is indirect and not immediately or personally responsible.
This may be supposed from the fact that they find fault with what is omitted, but do not give
their personal experience of how the want may be supplied. (2) Those priests who have made
a special study of children do not seem to favour the view, or to urge that any change should
be made in the direction of plain speaking. (3) The answer given by a great educational authority,
Miss Dorothea Beale, the late Principal of Cheltenham College, may appeal to those who are
struck by the theory if they do not advocate it in practice. When this difficulty was laid
before her she was not in favour of departing from the usual course, or insisting on the knowledge
of grown-up life before its time, and she pointed out that in case of accidents or surgical
operations it was not the doctors nor the nurses actively engaged who turned faint and sick,
but those who had nothing to do, and in the same way she thought that such instruction, cut
off from the duties and needs of the present, was not likely to be of any real benefit, but
rather to be harmful. Considering how wide was her experience of educational work this opinion
carries great weight.

CHAPTER VI.

LESSONS AND PLAY.

   "What think we of thy soul?

     *     *     *     *

"Born of full stature, lineal to control;
   And yet a pigmy's yoke must undergo.
Yet must keep pace and tarry, patient, kind,
With its unwilling scholar, the dull, tardy mind;
Must be obsequious to the body's powers,
Whose low hands mete its paths, set ope and close its ways,
   Must do obeisance to the days,
And wait the little pleasure of the hours;
   Yea, ripe for kingship, yet must be
Captive in statuted minority!"
            "Sister Songs," by FRANCIS THOMPSON.

Lessons and play used to be as clearly marked off one from the other as land and water on the
older maps. Now we see some contour maps in which the land below so many feet and the sea within
so many fathoms' depth are represented by the same marking, or left blank. In the same way
the tendency in education at present is almost to obliterate the line of demarcation, at least
for younger children, so that lessons become a particular form of play, "with a purpose," and
play becomes a sublimated form of lessons, as the druggists used to say, "an elegant preparation"
of something bitter. If the Board of Education were to name a commission composed of children,
and require it to look into the system, it is doubtful whether they would give a completely
satisfactory report. They would probably judge it to be too uniform in tone, poor in colour
and contrast, deficient in sparkle. They like the exhilaration of bright colour, and the crispness
of contrast. Of course they would judge it from the standpoint of play, not of lessons. But
play which is not quite play, coming after something which has been not quite lessons, loses
the tingling delight of contrast. The funereal tolling of a bell for real lessons made a dark
background against which the rapture of release for real play shone out with a brilliancy which
more than made up for it. At home, the system of ten minutes' lessons at short intervals seems
to answer well for young children; it exerts just enough pressure to give rebound in the intervals
of play. Of course this is not possible at school.

But the illusion that lessons are play cannot be indefinitely kept up, or if the illusion remains
it is fraught with trouble. Duty and endurance, the power to go through drudgery, the strength
of mind to persist in taking trouble, even where no interest is felt, the satisfaction of holding
on to the end in doing something arduous, these things must be learned at some time during
the years of education. If they are not learned then, in all probability they will never be
acquired at all; examples to prove the contrary are rare. The question is how--and when. If
pressed too soon with obligations of lessons, especially with prolonged attention, little anxious
faces and round shoulders protest. If too long delayed the discovery comes as a shock, and
the less energetic fall out at once and declare that they "can't learn"--"never could."

Perhaps in one way the elementary schools with their large classes have a certain advantage
in this, because the pressure is more self-adjusting than in higher class education, where
the smaller numbers give to each child a greater share in the general work, for better or for
worse. In home education this share becomes even greater when sometimes one child alone enjoys
or endures the undivided attention of the governess. In that case the pressure does not relax.
But out of large classes of infants in elementary schools it is easy to see on many vacant
restful faces that after a short exertion in "qualifying to their teacher" they are taking
their well-earned rest. They do not allow themselves to be strung up to the highest pitch of
attention all through the lesson, but take and leave as they will or as they can, and so they
are carried through a fairly long period of lessons without distress. As they grow older and
more independent in their work the same cause operates in a different way. They can go on by
themselves and to a certain extent they must do so, as o n account of the numbers teachers
can give less time and less individual help to each, and the habit of self-reliance is gradually
acquired, with a certain amount of drudgery, leading to results proportionate to the teacher's
personal power of stimulating work. The old race of Scottish schoolmaster in the rural schools
produced--perhaps still produces--good types of such self-reliant scholars, urged on by his
personal enthusiasm for knowledge. Having no assistant, his own personality was the soul of
the school, both boys and girls responding in a spirit which was worthy of it. But the boys
had the best of it; "lassies" were not deemed worthy to touch the classics, and the classics
were everything to him. In America it is reported that the best specimens of university students
often come from remote schools in which no external advantages have been available; but the
tough unyielding habit of study has been developed in grappling with difficulties without much
support from a teacher.

With those who are more gently brought up the problem is how to obtain this habit of independent
work, that is practically--how to get the will to act. There is drudgery to be gone through,
however it may be disguised, and as a permanent acquisition the power of going through it is
one of the most lasting educational results that can be looked for. Drudgery is labour with
toil and fatigue. It is the long penitential exercise of the whole human race, not limited
to one class or occupation, but accompanying every work of man from the lowest mechanical factory
hand or domestic "drudge" up to the Sovereign Pontiff, who has to spend so many hours in merely
receiving, encouraging, blessing, and dismissing the unending processions of his people as
they pass before him, imparting to them graces of which he can never see the fruit, and then
returning to longer hours of listening to complaints and hearing of troubles which often admit
of no remedy: truly a life of labour with toil and fatigue, in comparison with which most lives
are easy, though each has to bear in its measure the same stamp. Pius X has borne the yoke
of labour from his youth. His predecessor took it up with an enthusiasm that burned within
him, and accepted training in a service where the drudgery is as severe though generally kept
out of sight. The acceptance of it is the great matter, whatever may be the form it takes.

Spurs and bait, punishment and reward, have been used from time immemorial to set the will
in motion, and the results have been variable--no one has appeared to be thoroughly satisfied
with either, or even with a combination of the two. Some authorities have stood on an eminence,
and said that neither punishment nor reward should be used, that knowledge should be loved
for its own sake. But if it was not loved, after many invitations, the problem remained. As
usual the real solution seems to be attainable only by one who really loves both knowledge
and children, or one who loves knowledge and can love children, as Vittorino da Feltre loved
them both, and also Blessed Thomas More. These two affections mingled together produce great
educators--great in the proportion in which the two are possessed--as either one or the other
declines the educational power diminishes, till it dwindles down to offer trained substitutes
and presentable mediocrities for living teachers. The fundamental principle reasserts itself,
that "love feels no labour, or if it does it loves the labour."

Here is one of our Catholic secrets of strength. We have received so much, we have so much
to give, we know so well what we want to obtain. We have the Church, the great teacher of the
world, as our prototype, and by some instinct a certain unconscious imitation of her finds
its way into the mind and heart of Catholic teachers, so that, though often out of poorer material,
we can produce teachers who excel in personal hold over children, and influence for good by
their great affection and the value which they set on souls. Their power of obtaining work
is proportioned to their own love of knowledge, and here--let it be owned--we more often fail.
Various theories are offered in explanation of this; people take one or other according to
their personal point of view. Some say we feel so sure of the other world that our hold on
this is slack. Some that in these countries we have not yet made up for the check of three
centuries when education was made almost impossible for us. And others say it is not true at
all. Perhaps they know best.

Next to the personal power of the teacher to influence children in learning lessons comes an
essential condition to make it possible, and that is a simple life with quiet regular hours
and unexciting pleasures. Amid a round of amusements lessons must go to the wall, no child
can stand the demands of both at a time. All that can be asked of them is that they should
live through the excitement without too much weariness or serious damage. The place to consider
this is in London at the children's hour for riding in the park, contrasting the prime condition
of the ponies with the "illustrious pallor" of so many of their riders. They have courage enough
left to sit up straight in their saddles, but it would take a heart of stone to think of lesson
books. This extreme of artificial life is of course the portion of the few. Those few, however,
are very important people, influential in the future for good or evil, but a protest from a
distance would not reach their schoolrooms, any more than legislation for the protection of
children; they may be protected from work, but not from amusement. The conditions of simple
living which are favourable for children have been so often enumerated that it is unnecessary
to go over them again; they may even be procured in tabular form or graphical representation
for those to whom these figures and curves carry conviction.

But a point that is of more practical interest to children and teachers, struggling together
in the business of education, and one that is often overlooked, is that children do not know
how to learn lessons when the books are before them, and that there is a great waste of good
power, and a great deal of unnecessary weariness from this cause. If the cause of imperfectly
learned lessons is examined it will usually be found there, and also the cause of so much dislike
to the work of preparation. Children do not know by instinct how to set about learning a lesson
from a book, nor do they spontaneously recognize that there are different ways of learning,
adapted to different lessons. It is a help to them to know that there is one way for the multiplication
table and another for history and another for poetry, as the end of the lesson is different.
They can understand this if it is put before them that one is learnt most quickly by mere repetition,
until it becomes a sing-song in the memory that cannot go wrong, and that afterwards in practice
it will allow itself to be taken to pieces; they will see that they can grasp a chapter of
history more intelligently if they prepare for themselves questions upon it which might be
asked of another, than in trying by mechanical devices of memory to associate facts with something
to hold them by; that poetry is different from both, having a body and a soul, each of which
has to be taken account of in learning it, one of them being the song and the other the singer.
Obviously there is not one only way for each of these or for other matters which have to be
learnt, but one of the greatest difficulties is removed when it is understood that there is
something intelligible to be done in the learning of lessons beyond reading them over and over
with the hope that they will go in.

The hearing of lessons is a subject that deserves a great deal of consideration. It is an old
formal name for what has been often an antiquated mechanical exercise. A great deal more trouble
is expended now on the manner of questioning and "hearing" the lessons; but even yet it may
be done too formally, as a mere function, or in a way that kills the interest, or in a manner
that alarms--with a mysterious face as if setting traps, or with questions that are easy and
obvious to ask, but for children almost impossible to answer. Children do not usually give
direct answers to simple questions. Experience seems to have taught them that appearances are
deceptive in this matter, and they look about for the spring by which the trap works before
they will touch the bait. It is a pity to set traps, because it destroys confidence, and children's
confidence in such matters as lessons is hard to win.

The question of aids to study by stimulants is a difficult one. On the one hand it seems to
some educators a fundamental law that reward should follow right-doing and effort, and so no
doubt it is; but the reward within one's own mind and soul is one thing and the calf-bound
book is another--scarcely even a symbol of the first, because they are not always obtained
by the same students. This is a fruitful subject for discourse or reflection at distributions
of prizes. Those who are behind the scenes know that the race is not to the swift nor the battle
to the strong, and the children know it themselves, and prize-winners often become the object
of the "word in season," pointing out how rarely they will be found to distinguish themselves
in after life; while the steady advance of the plodding and slow mind is dwelt upon, and those
who have failed through idleness drink up the encouragement which was not intended for them,
and feel that they are the hope of the future because they have won no prizes. It is difficult
on those occasions to make the conflicting conclusions clear to everybody.

Yet the system of prize distributions is time honoured and traditional, and every country is
not yet so disinterested in study as to be able to do without it; under its sway a great deal
of honest effort is put out, and the taste of success which is the great stimulant of youth
is first experienced.

There is also the system of certificates, which has the advantage of being open to many instead
of to one. It is likewise a less material testimonial, approaching more nearly to the merited
word of approval which is in itself the highest human reward, and the one nearest to the heart
of things, because it is the one which belongs to home. For if the home authorities interest
themselves in lessons at all, their grown-up standard and the paramount weight of their opinion
gives to one word of their praise a dignity and worth which goes beyond all prizes. Beyond
this there is no natural satisfaction to equal the inner consciousness of having done one's
best, a very intimate prize distribution in which we ourselves make the discourse, and deliver
the certificate to ourselves. This is the culminating point at which educators aim; they are
all agreed that prizes in the end are meant to lead up to it, but the way is long between them.
And both one and the other are good in so far as they lead us on to the highest judgment that
is day by day passed on our work. When prizes, and even the honour of well-deserved praise,
fail to attract, the thought of God the witness of our efforts, and of the value in His sight
of striving which is never destined to meet with success, is a support that keeps up endurance,
and seals with an evident mark of privilege the lives of many who have made those dutiful efforts
not for themselves but in the sight of God.

The subject of play has to be considered from two points of view, that of the children and
ours. Theirs is concerned chiefly with the present and ours with the future, far although we
do not want every play-hour to be haunted with a spectral presence that speaks of improvement
and advancement, yet we cannot lose sight of the fact that every hour of play is telling on
the future, deepening the mark of the character, strengthening the habits, and guiding the
lines of after life into this or that channel.

