It was about three years ago, that Major Laing, son-in-law of Colonel Hammer Warrington, consul-general
of England in Tripoli, quitted that city, where he left his young wife, and penetrated into
the mysterious continent of Africa, the grave of so many illustrious travellers. After having
crossed the chain of Mount Atlas, the country of Fezzan, the desert of Lempta, the Sahara,
and the kingdom of Ahades, he arrived at the city of Timbuctoo, the discovery of which has
been so long desired by the learned world. Major Laing, by entering Timbuctoo, had gained the
reward of 3,000l. sterling, which a learned and generous society in London had promised to
the intrepid adventurer who should first visit the great African city, situated between the
Nile of the Negroes and the river Gambaron. But Major Laing attached much less value to the
gaining of the reward than to the fame acquired after so many fatigues and dangers. He had
collected on his journey valuable information in all branches of science: having fixed his
abode at Timbuctoo, he had composed the journal of his travels, and was preparing to return
to Tripoli, when he was attacked by Africans, who undoubtedly were watching for him in the
desert. Laing, who had but a weak escort, defended himself with heroic courage: he had at heart
the preservation of his labours and his glory. But in this engagement he lost his right hand,
which was struck off by the blow of a yatagan. It is impossible to help being moved with pity
at the idea of the unfortunate traveller, stretched upon the sand, writing painfully with his
left hand to his young wife, the mournful account of the combat. Nothing can be so affecting
as this letter, written in stiff characters, by unsteady fingers, and all soiled with dust
and blood. This misfortune was only the prelude to one far greater. Not long afterwards, some
people of Ghadames, who had formed part of the Major's escort, arrived at Tripoli, and informed
Colonel Warrington that his relation had been assassinated in the desert. Colonel Warrington
could not confine himself to giving barren tears to the memory of his son-in-law. The interest
of his glory, the honour of England, the affection of a father--all made it his duty to seek
after the authors of the murder, and endeavour to discover what had become of the papers of
the victim. An uncertain report was soon spread that the papers of Major Laing had been brought
to Tripoli by people of Ghadames; and that a Turk, named Hassouna Dghies, had mysteriously
received them. This is the same Dghies whom we have seen at Marseilles, displaying so much
luxury and folly, offering to the ladies his perfumes and his shawls-- a sort of travelling
Usbeck, without his philosophy and his wit. From Marseilles he went to London, overwhelmed
with debts, projecting new ones, and always accompanied by women and creditors. Colonel Warrington
was long engaged in persevering researches, and at length succeeded in finding a clue to this
horrible mystery. The Pasha, at his request, ordered the people who had made part of the Major's
escort to be brought from Ghadames. The truth was at length on the point of being known; but
this truth was too formidable to Hassouna Dghies for him to dare to await it, and he therefore
took refuge in the abode of Mr. Coxe, the consul of the United States. The Pasha sent word
to Mr. Coxe, that he recognised the inviolability of the asylum granted to Hassouna; but that
the evidence of the latter being necessary in the prosecution of the proceedings relative to
the assassination of Major Laing, he begged him not to favour his flight. Colonel Warrington
wrote to his colleague to the same effect. However, Hassouna Dghies left Tripoli on the 9th
of August, in the night, in the disguise, it is said, of an American officer, and took refuge
on board the United States corvette Fairfield, Captain Parker, which was then at anchor in
the roads of Tripoli. Doubtless, Captain Parker was deceived with respect to Hassouna, otherwise
the noble flag of the United States would not have covered with its protection a man accused
of being an accomplice in an assassination.

It is fully believed that this escape was ardently solicited by a French agent. It is even
said, that the proposal was first made to the captain of one of our (French) ships, but that
he nobly replied, that one of the king's officers could not favour a suspicious flight--that
he would not receive Hassouna on board his ship, except by virtue of a written order, and,
at all events in open day, and without disguise.

The Fairfield weighed anchor on the 10th of August, in the morning.

The Pasha, enraged at this escape of Hassouna, summoned to his palace Mohamed Dghies, brother
of the fugitive, and there, in the presence of his principal officers, commanded him, with
a stern voice, to declare the truth. Mohamed fell at his master's feet, and declared upon oath,
and in writing, that his brother Hassouna had had Major Laing's papers in his possession, but
that he had delivered them up to a person, for a deduction of forty per cent. on the debts
which he had contracted in France, and the recovery of which this person was endeavouring to
obtain by legal proceedings.

The declaration of Mohamed extends to three pages, containing valuable and very numerous details
respecting the delivery of the papers of the unfortunate Major, and all the circumstances of
this strange transaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

The shape and size of the Major's papers are indicated with the most minute exactness; it is
stated that these papers were taken from him near Timbuctoo, and subsequently delivered to
the person abovementioned entire, and without breaking the seals of red wax--a circumstance
which would demonstrate the participation of Hassouna in the assassination; for how can it
be supposed otherwise, that the wretches who murdered the Major would have brought these packages
to such a distance without having been tempted by cupidity, or even the curiosity so natural
to savages, to break open their frail covers?

Mohamed, however, after he had left the palace, fearing that the Pasha in his anger would make
him answerable for his brother's crime, according to the usual mode of doing justice at Tripoli,
hastened to seek refuge in the house of the person of whom we have spoken, and to implore his
protection. Soon afterwards the consul-general of the Netherlands, accompanied by his colleagues
the consuls-general of Sweden, Denmark, and Sardinia, proceeded to the residence of the person
pointed out as the receiver, and in the name of Colonel Warrington, and by virtue of the declaration
of Mohamed, called upon him instantly to restore Major Laing's papers. He answered haughtily,
that this declaration was only a tissue of calumnies; and Mohamed, on his side, trusting, doubtless,
in a pretended inviolability, yielding, perhaps, to fallacious promises, retracted his declaration,
completely disowned it, and even went so far as to deny his own hand-writing.

This recantation deceived nobody; the Pasha, in a transport of rage, sent to Mohamed his own
son, Sidi Ali; this time influence was of no avail. Mohamed, threatened with being seized by
the chiaoux, retracted his retractation; and in a new declaration, in the presence of all the
consuls, confirmed that which he made in the morning before the Pasha and his officers.

One consolatory fact results from these afflicting details: the papers of Major Laing exist,
and the learned world will rejoice at the intelligence; but in the name of humanity, in the
name of science, in the name of the national honour--compromised, perhaps, by disgraceful or
criminal bargains--it must be hoped that justice may fall upon the guilty, whoever he may be.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COFFEE-ROOM CHARACTER.

It was about the year 1805 that we were first ushered into the dining-house called the Cheshire
Cheese, in Wine-office-court. It is known that Johnson once lodged in this court, and bought
an enormous cudgel while there, to resist a threatened attack from Macpherson, the author,
or editor, of Ossian's Poems. At the time we first knew the place (for its visiters and keepers
are long since changed for the third or fourth time,) many came there who remembered Johnson
and Goldsmith spending their evenings in the coffee-room; old half-pay officers, staid tradesmen
of the neighbourhood, and the like, formed the principal portion of the company.

Few in this vast city know the alley in Fleet-street which leads to the sawdusted floor and
shining tables; those tables of mahogany, parted by green-curtained seats, and bound with copper
rims to turn the edge of the knife which might perchance assail them during a warm debate;
John Bull having a propensity to commit such mutilations in the "torrent, tempest, and whirlwind"
of argument. Thousands have never seen the homely clock that ticks over the chimney, nor the
capacious, hospitable-looking fire-place under,[3] both as they stood half a century ago, when
Fleet-street was the emporium of literary talent, and every coffee-house was distinguished
by some character of note who was regarded as the oracle of the company.

    [3] We may add that still fewer have seen the characteristic
        whole-length portrait of "Harry," the waiter, which has
        been placed over the fireplace, by subscription among the
        frequenters of the room. Wageman is the painter, and nothing
        can describe the bonhommie of Harry, who has just drawn the
        cork of a pint of port, exulting in all the vainglory of crust
        and bees' wing.--ED. MIRROR.

Among these was old Colonel L----e, in person short and thick-set. He often sacrificed copiously
to the jolly god, in his box behind the door; he was a great smoker, and had numbered between
seventy and eighty years. Early in the evening he was punctually at his post; he called, for
his pipe and his "go of rack," according to his diurnal custom; and surveying first the persons
at his own table, and then those in other parts of the room, he commonly sat a few minutes
in silence, as if waiting the stimulating effect of the tobacco to wind up his conversational
powers, or perhaps he was bringing out defined images from the dim reminiscences which floated
in his sensorium. If a stranger were near, he commonly addressed him with an old soldier's
freedom, on some familiar topic which little needed the formalities of a set introduction;
but soon changed the subject, and commenced fighting "his battles o'er again." He talked much
of Minden, and the campaigns of 1758 and 59. He boasted of having carried the colours of the
20th regiment, that bore the brunt of the day there, and mainly contributed to obtain a "glorious
victory," as Southey, in his days of uncourtliness, called that of Blenheim. But though thus
fond of showing "how fields were won," he was equally delighted with recounting his acquaintance
with more peaceful subjects. He had known Johnson and Goldsmith, together with the list of
worthies who honoured Fleet-street by making it their abode between thirty and forty years
before, and were at that time visitants of the house. "At this very table," said he, speaking
of that which is situated on the right-hand behind the door, "Johnson used always to sit when
he came here, and Goldsmith also. I knew them well. Johnson overawed us all, and every one
became silent when he spoke." The colonel observed of Goldsmith, "That no one would have thought
much of him from his company, though he had a great name in the world."

The colonel also knew something of Churchill, described him as by no means prepossessing in
person, and one of the last who could have been supposed capable of writing as he wrote. The
colonel, in his old age, imagined he too had a taste for poetry, and boasted of Goldsmith's
having asserted (perhaps jokingly) that he possessed a talent for writing verse. This idea
working in his mind for years, had induced him to print, in his old age, what he called, to
the best of my recollection, "A Continuation of the Deserted Village." He always brought a
copy with him of an evening, and was fond of referring to it, and passing it round for the
company to look at--a weakness pardonable in a garrulous old man. On revisiting the house,
for old acquaintance sake, after an absence of some years from London, I missed him from his
accustomed place, which I observed to be occupied by a stranger. On inquiry, I found that he
was departed to where human vanity and human wisdom are upon a level, and where man is alike
deaf to the voice of literary and military ambition.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANNUALS FOR 1830.

We feel it a duty to the proprietors of these elegant works, as well as to our readers, to
give the following annonces of the several volumes for 1830:--

The Keepsake is very forward. Among the contributors are Sir Walter Scott, Lord Byron, and
the author of "Anastasius." Sir Walter's contribution is a dramatic romance, in imitation of
the German; and Lord Byron's are ten letters written by him between 1821, and the time of his
lordship's death.

The Forget-Me-Not will contain a very gem--being the first known attempt at poetry, by Lord
Byron, copied from the autograph of the noble poet, and certified by the lady to whom it was
addressed--the object of his lordship's first, if not his only real attachment.

Mr. Ackermann has likewise announced a Juvenile Forget-Me-Not, so as to remember all growths.

The Literary Souvenir is in a state of great forwardness. Among the contributors are the authors
of "Kuzzil-bash;" "Constantinople in 1828;" "The Sorrows of Rosalie;" and "Rouge et Noir."
The pencils of Sir Thomas Lawrence, Howard, Collins, Chalon, Harlowe, and Martin, have furnished
subjects for the illustrations.

The Amulet, among its illustrations will contain an engraving from Mulready's picture of an
English Cottage; another from Wilkie's "Dorty Bairn;" and another from a drawing by Martin,
engraved by Le Keux, for which he is said to have received one hundred and eighty guineas.
Mr. Hall, the editor, has likewise been equally fortunate in an accession of literary talent.

The Juvenile Forget-Me-Not, under the superintendence of Mrs. S.C. Hall, also promises unusual
attractions, both in picture and print.

The Juvenile Keepsake, edited by Mr. T. Roscoe, is said to be completed.

Another Juvenile Annual, to be called the Zoological Keepsake, is announced, with a host of
cuts to enliven the "birds, beasts, and fishes" of the smaller growth.

The Gem will re-appear as the Annual Gem, with thirteen embellishments, superintended by A.
Cooper, R. A.

The Bijou promises well. The embellishments are of the first order, from pictures by Sir Thomas
Lawrence, Stothard, Wilkie, and the lamented Bonington. Among the gems are a splendid portrait
of the King, from the president's picture, in the possession of Sir William Knighton, Bart.;
and a portrait of the beautiful Mrs. Arbuthnot.

The Winter's Wreath will bloom with more than its accustomed beauty. Among the contributors
we notice, for the first time, the author of "Rank and Talent."

Religious Annuals are on the increase. One of the novelties of this class is "Emmanuel," to
be edited by the author of "Clouds and Sunshine," of the excellence of which we have many grateful
recollections. The Iris, to be edited by the Rev. Thomas Dale, is another novelty in this way.

The Musical Bijou has among its composers, Rossini, Bishop, Kalk-brenner, Rodwell, J. Barnet,
and others. The lyrists and prose writers are Sir Walter Scott, T.H. Bayley, the Ettrick Shepherd,
Messrs. Planche, Richard Ryan, &c.

One of the most splendid designs of the season is a "Landscape Annual, or the Tourist in Italy
and Switzerland," from drawings by Prout; the literary department by T. Roscoe, Esq. and to
contain the most attractive views which occur to the traveller on his route from Geneva to
Rome. Some of the plates are described as extremely brilliant.

Two Transatlantic Annuals, the Atlantic Souvenir, published at Philadelphia, and the Token,
published at Boston--may be expected in London.

The foregoing are all the announcements we have been able to collect. We miss two or three
established favourites; but we hope to make their promises the subject of a future paragraph.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOOSE.

In England the goose is sacred to St. Michael; in Scotland, where dainties were not going every
day,

  "'Twas Christmas sent its savoury goose."

The Michaelmas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth's dining on one at the table
of an English baronet on that day when she received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish
Armada, in commemoration of which she ordered the goose to make its appearance every Michaelmas.
In some places, particularly Caithness, geese are cured and smoked, and are highly relishing.
Smoked Solan geese are well known as contributing to the abundance of a Scottish breakfast,
though too rank and fishy-flavoured for unpractised palates. The goose has made some figure
in English history. The churlishness of the brave Richard Coeur de Lion, a sovereign distinguished
for an insatiable appetite and vigorous digestion, in an affair of roast goose, was the true
cause of his captivity in Germany. The king, disguised as a palmer, was returning to his own
dominions, attended by Sir Fulk Doyley and Sir Thomas de Multon, "brothers in arms," and wearing
the same privileged garb. They arrived in Almain, (Germany,) at the town of Carpentras, where,

  "A goose they dight to their dinner.
  In a tavern where they were.
  King Richard the fire bet,
  Thomas to him the spit set;
  Fouk Doyley tempered the wood;
  Dear a-bought they that good;"

for in came a Minstralle, or she-Minstrel, with offer of specimens of her art in return for
a leg of the goose and a cup of the wine. Richard, who loved "rich meats," and cared little
at this time for their usual accompaniment, "minstrelsy,"--

  "--bade that she would go;
  That turned him to mickle woe.
  The Minstralle took in mind,
  And said, ye are men unkind:
  And if I may ye shall for-think
  Ye gave me neither meat nor drink!"

The lady, who was English, recognised the king, and denounced him to the king of Germany, who
ordered the pilgrims into his presence, insulted Richard, "said him shame," called him taylard,
probably for his affection for goose, and finally ordered him to a dungeon. But Richard, a
true knightly eater, who, besides roast goose, liked to indulge in

          "Bread and wine,
  Piment and clarry good and fine;
  Cranes and swans, and venison;
  Partridges, plovers, and heron,--

was neither dainty nor over-nice. At a pinch he could eat any thing, which on sundry emergencies
stood him in great stead. Wax and nuts, and tallow and grease mixed, carried him through one
campaign, when the enemy thought to have starved out the English army and its cormorant commander.
The courage and strength of Richard were always redoubled after dinner. It was then his greatest
feats were performed.--Romance of Coeur de Lion.

