At six or seven years of age, the boy was sent to school in charge of a pedagogue, or leader
of the young,--usually an old and trusted slave. While not intrusted with the actual teaching
of his charge, he was responsible for his morals and manners, and was allowed, as we have seen,
to administer punishment. The pedagogue was the constant attendant of the boy. The character
of the school chosen depended upon the means of the parents.

The first two years were devoted chiefly to gymnastics. The two subjects of the elementary
course were gymnastics and music, the latter term including reading and writing. But little
arithmetic was taught, as the Athenians believed that the object of the study of arithmetic
was simply utility, and but little arithmetic was needed for practical use. "Calculating boards"
made the reckoning for all business needs a purely mechanical process. The idea of education
was the development of the beautiful, and they held that arithmetic contributed but little
to this end. The works of the poets were given prominence throughout the Athenian education,
and pupils were required to commit to memory many selections.

=The Sophists.=--The Sophists flourished during the fifth century B.C. Their greatest exponents
were Protagoras and Gorgias. They introduced a movement of which Schwegler says, "It had struck
its roots into the whole moral, political, and religious character of the Hellenic life of
that time." They wandered about from place to place proclaiming themselves as philosophers
and bidding for the patronage of the rich by charging large fees and considering public questions.
They discussed error and wrong with the same eloquence and zeal that they discussed truth and
justice, their purpose being to foster eloquence rather than discover truth. Hence, we have
the word "sophistry," which means fallacious reasoning. And yet, in the words of Schwegler,
"It cannot be denied that Protagoras also hit upon many correct principles of rhetoric, and
satisfactorily established certain grammatical categories. It may in general be said of the
Sophists that they gave the people a great profusion of general knowledge; ... that they called
out investigations in the theory of knowledge, in logic, and in language; that they laid the
basis for the methodical treatment of many branches of human knowledge, and that they partly
originated and partly assisted the wonderful intellectual activity which characterized Athens
at that time."

Children of the poorer classes were kept in school until their fourteenth or fifteenth year,
when they learned a trade. Those of the rich remained in school until their twentieth year.
The course of study of the latter included music, rhetoric, grammar, and philosophy. At twenty
the youth's education was regarded as completed, and the young man became a citizen. Teachers
were paid fees and not fixed salaries.

It was the atmosphere of Athens, more than the discipline of the school, that fostered culture
and inspired learning. The aim of education was the beautiful, and the ideal was the aesthetic
in mind and body.

=Criticism of Athenian Education.=--1. It sought to educate the entire man, giving him beauty
of form, keenness of intellect, and nobleness of heart.

2. It acknowledged the right of parents to direct and determine the education of their children.

3. It recognized the importance of the individual as no other people had before.

4. Strict obedience was required of the children.

5. It produced great men, with high moral and intellectual ideals, but these ideals were centered
in Athenian culture.

6. It excluded women and slaves from its benefits, and was by no means universal.

7. It recognized the value of play as an educational force, thereby anticipating the kindergarten.

8. The State exercised a certain control over the school by furnishing places where it might
be held, by defraying the expense of examinations, by determining the number of pupils to a
teacher, by fixing the limit of school hours, and by deciding upon the qualifications of teachers.
And yet the choice of education was free, and its aim was the good of the individual and not
the glory of the State.

CHAPTER IX

ATHENIAN EDUCATORS

=Literature.=--Bulkley, Plato's Best Thoughts; Schwegler, History of Philosophy; Morris, Historical
Tales; Curtius, History of Greece; Lord, Beacon Lights; Spofford, Library of Historical Characters;
Jowett, The Republic of Plato; Vogel, Geschichte der Pädagogik; Emerson, Representative Men;
De Quincey, Plato's Republic; Hegel, Philosophy of History.

SOCRATES (B.C. 470-399)

Socrates was the son of a sculptor of Athens. Though he learned his father's trade and followed
it in early manhood, he relinquished it to devote himself to the study of philosophy, for which
he had a natural bent. In person he was far from fulfilling the Athenian ideal of beauty, being
short of stature, corpulent, with protruding eyes, upturned nose, large mouth, and thick lips.
His domestic life was not happy, his wife, Xantippe, being a noted shrew. His failure to provide
for the material welfare of his family, though quite natural in a man to whom all material
things seemed unessential, must have sorely tried her patience. But Socrates bore her scolding
with resignation. Indeed, he seemed to regard it as furnishing an opportunity to practice the
philosophic patience that he preached.

Socrates believed that he had a divine call to "convince men of ignorance mistaking itself
for knowledge, and by so doing to promote their intellectual and moral development." Like many
other philosophers, he spent his time in the streets, markets, and other public places, arguing
with any one who would stop to listen or converse. This manner of teaching was common in Athens,
and he never lacked hearers. The whole atmosphere of the classic city was charged with the
spirit of intellectual activity and philosophic discussion. Socrates did not teach positive
doctrines, but assumed ignorance himself in order to convince others of ignorance. By a series
of suggestive questions he would lead his pupils or opponents into admissions which finally
established the truth that Socrates saw at the outset. This is known as the "Socratic Method,"
or the dialectical method, and this form of inductive teaching was an important contribution
to education.

Although Socrates left no writings, his great pupils, Xenophon and Plato, have given the world
a full account of his teachings. Plato speaks in highest terms of his moral character, declaring
that "he was not of this world." Xenophon also adds his testimony in the following words: "No
one ever knew of his doing or saying anything profane or unholy." Socrates believed in one
Supreme Being, the intelligent Creator of the universe. He also believed in the immortality
of the soul. These doctrines were altogether contrary to Greek polytheism, the prevailing religion
of Athens, and they prove him to have been far in advance of the age in which he lived. While
he established no school, Socrates nevertheless must ever rank as one of the world's greatest
teachers and thinkers.

In his death he fully exemplified the truth of his own philosophy. He was accused of corrupting
the youth and denying the deities, and was condemned to die by drinking a cup of hemlock. He
calmly submitted to his fate, refusing to avail himself of an opportunity to escape. According
to the account given in Plato's "Phaedo," he spent his last hours discussing with the friends
who attended him the question of the immortality of the soul.

PLATO (B.C. 429-347)

Plato was a disciple of Socrates, and to him we are chiefly indebted for an account of the
teachings of his great master. For twenty years he sat at the feet of the philosopher, and
drank from the fountain of knowledge possessed by that wonderful man. He also traveled in other
lands, particularly Egypt and Italy, in pursuit of knowledge. He became one of the most remarkable
scholars and philosophers, not only of antiquity, but of all time. When forty years of age
he founded a school at Athens, though it is not as a teacher that he is chiefly known, but
as a writer and sage. "Plato among the Greeks, like Bacon among the moderns, was the first
who conceived a method of knowledge." His great work is his "Republic," in which he pictures
the ideal State and outlines his scheme of education, which is built on ideals of both Spartan
and Athenian citizenship. From Sparta comes the thought of an education which shall be controlled
by the State from birth; while Athens adds the aesthetical aspects to those purely physical.

In his scheme he divided the people into the following classes:--

1. The common people. They should be allowed to rise, but no education is provided for them
in his scheme.

2. The guardians or citizens, who shall study music and gymnastics. Music includes literature,
that is, human culture as distinguished from scientific knowledge. Writing and arithmetic are
also included under music, the latter not being studied for practical purposes, but to develop
the reason.

3. The rulers, who, in addition to the preceding subjects, shall study geometry, astronomy,
rhetoric, and philosophy.

The State is to have absolute control of every citizen; it shall arrange marriages, destroy
weak and unpromising children, and remove the healthy babes at birth to public nurseries, where
mothers may care for the children in common, but will not recognize or take special interest
in their own children. Boys and girls are to be educated alike. Great care is to be taken that
nothing mean or vile shall be shown to children; their environments shall be beautiful and
ennobling, though simple.

From birth to seven years of age the child is to have plenty of physical exercise. He shall
hear fairy tales and selections from the poets, but careful censorship must be placed on everything
presented to him. Suitable playthings are to be provided, precaution taken against fear of
darkness, and by gentleness combined with firmness a manly spirit is to be produced. Beauty
of mind and body are to be harmoniously united.

From seven to thirteen intellectual as well as physical activity is required.

The special education begins at twenty by the selection of the most promising youths. At thirty
another selection of those able to continue their education five years more is made.

Higher mathematics, astronomy, harmony, and science constitute the work of the first ten years,
and philosophical study that of the last five. Fifteen years then are to be given to the service
of the State, after which, at fifty, the student may return to the study of philosophy for
the remainder of his life.

Education is to be compulsory, as the child belongs to the State and not to the parent.

Plato gave predominance to intellectual rather than to physical culture, as he said, "If the
mind be educated it will take care of the body, for the good soul improves the body, and not
the good body the soul."

He taught that it is the aim of education to bring all of the powers of man into harmonious
coöperation.

It will thus be seen that Plato's scheme of education centers around the oriental idea that
man belongs to the State, and the main purpose of education is to fit him to serve the State.
And Plato clearly set forth how the education which he demanded should be attained, and therefore
he is to be remembered as originating the first systematic scheme of education in history.

ARISTOTLE (B.C. 384-322)[17]

Aristotle was born in Stagira in Macedonia, and from this fact he is called the Stagirite.
For twenty years he was a pupil of Plato, as Plato had been of Socrates. Aristotle was not
only one of the greatest philosophers that ever lived, but he enjoyed the distinction of being
the teacher and chosen counselor of Alexander the Great. Much of the greatness of the man who
conquered the world and "wept because there were no more worlds to conquer" was due to his
wise teacher. Alexander loved and revered Aristotle as much as his father, declaring "that
he was indebted to the one for living, and to the other for living well." He assisted Aristotle
in founding a school at his native place, Stagira.

It is not simply as the teacher of Alexander the Great that Aristotle is to be remembered in
the history of education, though that would entitle him to lasting fame. After the education
of Alexander was finished, Aristotle went to Athens, where he founded the Lyceum. Here he lectured
for many years, in the morning to his riper pupils on philosophical subjects, and in the evening
to the masses on such topics as were within their comprehension and as would tend to elevate them.

His pedagogy may be briefly outlined as follows:--

1. Education is a lifelong task, beginning at birth and continuing till death. The first seven
years are to be spent in the home under the fostering care of the parents. During this period
the child is to have no severe tasks, but chief attention is to be given to physical development.
He must learn obedience, as the first step to an ethical life. His food and clothing are to
be simple, and his toys and games of a character to stimulate wholesome activity. At the age
of seven he is to enter upon the direct intellectual training, and nothing must interfere with
this during the next seven years. From fourteen to twenty-one the education is to include such
exercises as directly prepare for life. The diet is to be simple, the physical training severe,
for the double purpose of counteracting the tendencies of the adolescent period, and of preparing
for war.

2. Education includes the development of the body, the character, and the intellect. Courage,
endurance, self-denial, temperance, truthfulness, and justice are essential characteristics
to be sought. The purpose of instruction is to develop the imperfect, untrained child into
the well-rounded, intelligent, and patriotic citizen.

3. The course of study, which begins seriously after the seventh year, includes music, gymnastics,
drawing, grammar, rhetoric, and mathematics. Later, dialectics, philosophy, and political science
are to be added.

4. Woman is to have part in education that she may properly train her children, and may, by
an intelligent understanding of the laws, uphold the State.

5. Aristotle considered education as the most important and most difficult of all problems.
He based his pedagogy upon a knowledge of the individual.

6. His method was the analytical. He began with things and advanced from the concrete to the
abstract.

The foregoing will show that Aristotle began the study of problems that still occupy the minds
of educational thinkers, after more than twenty-two centuries of search for the truth. Some
of the problems he discussed have found their solution, and the seed sown by the great thinker
has come to fruitage. Karl Schmidt says, "Aristotle is the intellectual Alexander. Rich in
experience and profound in speculation, he penetrates all parts of the universe and seeks to
reduce all realities to concepts. He is the most profound and comprehensive thinker of the
pre-Christian world,--the Hegel of classical antiquity,--because, like Hegel, he seeks to unify
all knowledge, brings together the scattered materials of the present into one system, constructs
in a wonderful intellectual temple the psychical and physical Cosmos, the universe and God,
proclaims the destruction of an earlier culture epoch, and sets in motion waves in the ocean
of history that are destined to influence the intellectual life of all centuries to come....
Aristotle stands for the highest intellectual summit of antiquity,--the bridge which binds
the Grecian to the modern world,--the philosophical mouthpiece and the intellectual master
of twenty centuries."

FOOTNOTES:

[17] Brother Azarias, "Essays Philosophical."

CHAPTER X

SPARTA

=Literature.=--(See general literature for Greece.) Sankey, Spartan and Theban Supremacies;
Smith, History of Greece; Plutarch's Lives; Mombert, Great Lives; Spofford, Library of Historical
Characters.

=History.=--Sparta was the capital of Laconia, the southern province of Greece. Its inhabitants
consisted of:--

1. Citizens, composed of nine thousand families of nobles, who ruled the other classes.

2. Perioeci,[18] composed of thirty thousand families of freemen who lived in the territory
surrounding Sparta, but who were subject to the nobles.

3. Helots,[19] about three hundred thousand in number, who were slaves.

The Perioeci and the helots, with the love of freedom characteristic among the Greeks, chafed
under their yoke of subjugation, and eagerly watched for opportunities for revolt. Only by
an exercise of superior force could the nobles maintain their supremacy, and they were obliged
to seek by martial training the strength they lacked in numbers. Hence the education of the
Spartan youth was of necessity military, and every citizen was trained to become a warrior.

The Spartans were dignified, austere, and of few words, "laconic" in speech. The young were
expected to be silent in the presence of their elders except when addressed. They were taught
to give way to their seniors, especially to old men, whenever they met upon the street or in
a public place.

=The Home.=--The child was left in charge of the mother until six or seven years of age. Toys
inciting to warlike sports were provided, and childhood was made happy. The father usually
superintended the child's training, but sometimes an aged relative assumed the responsibility.
The treatment was humane and intelligent. From the first the child was taught implicit obedience
and modesty.

The Iliad and the Odyssey have been called the Bible of the Greeks, and children early learned
extracts from the works of the great poet, Homer. The Spartan mother was highly respected by
her husband and her children, and she was noted for her chastity and nobility of character.
She entered fully into the Spartan idea, and cheerfully gave her sons to her country, while
she often inspired them to deeds of bravery and patriotism. The lofty and self-sacrificing
patriotism of the Spartan mother is illustrated by her words upon sending her son to battle,--"Return
either with your shield or on it!"

It is said that weak and unpromising children were either killed as soon as they were born,
or abandoned to the wild beasts upon the mountains. This was because the State would assume
the training only of strong children, such as were likely to make good soldiers. It is probable
that many of these abandoned children were rescued and reared by the lower classes, which would
partially account for the fierce resistance so often offered by these classes to those who
deprived them of liberty. If such an inhuman practice had been encouraged by other nations
of the world, many of the greatest benefactors of the race would have been consigned to an
untimely death, for some of the noblest men that have ever lived were weak in infancy.

=Education.=--At six or seven the boy was taken from the home, and the State had entire jurisdiction
over his education. The boys were placed in groups in charge of young men who were responsible
for their education, which was almost wholly physical. They lived on very simple food, and
were often obliged to appease hunger by theft. They were taught that crime did not lie in the
commission of the offense, but in its detection. Their dress from seven to twelve consisted
of a long coat of very coarse material, the same for summer and winter. They were taught to
bear blows without a murmur, and instances are related of boys being whipped to death without
crying out.

Children sat at table with older men and listened to their conversation, but they were never
allowed to speak except in answer to questions. Thus they absorbed wisdom and were incited
to deeds of bravery by the stories of heroism related by their seniors.

The State furnished barracks poorly provided with the comforts of life, in which the boys slept
in severe weather; at other times they slept in the open air. They were wholly separated from
their homes, and completely under control of the State. The purpose was to secure strong, beautiful,
and supple bodies, inured to hardship, as a preparation for the life of the soldier. The only
intellectual education was music, which consisted in playing the lyre as an accompaniment to
the dance. Reading and writing were despised as being fit only for slaves.

At the age of twelve the boy exchanged the long coat for the mantle, thereby entering upon
manhood. From this time until the age of thirty, much the same form of training was continued,
though it became more definitely military. At thirty the Spartan youth became a citizen and
was expected to marry. Girls also received gymnastic training, in many cases with the boys.
The purpose of this was to develop strong and beautiful wives and mothers. The effect of this
coeducation of the sexes was in the highest degree salutary, impurity among women being unknown
in Sparta. We have already noted the patriotism of the Spartan mother. Woman was highly esteemed
in the home. Her praises and her reproofs were alike respected, and all her opinions bore much
weight.

=Criticism of Spartan Education.=--1. It produced men and women of beautiful physique.

2. It inculcated obedience, politeness, modesty, sobriety, respect for the aged, courage, and
patriotism.

3. It checked luxury and extravagance.

4. On the other hand, it gave little attention to intellectual training, hence it produced
few men of lasting fame.

5. Its aim was martial supremacy, and this attained, the State fell into a hasty decline because
of the instability of such a foundation.

6. It excluded a large part of the inhabitants from its benefits, only the nobles being included.

7. It was selfish because it trained for Sparta and not for Greece, or for humanity.

8. It taught the duty of man to the State, and not the duty of man to man.

9. It took boys at an early age away from the influences of home, thus robbing the parents
of the sacred prerogative of directing the education of their offspring.

10. It produced men cruel in battle and revengeful in victory, men incapable of cultivating
the arts of peace.

LYCURGUS

There is so much that is mythical and uncertain concerning Lycurgus that many have doubted
whether he ever lived. Curtius, however, says, "There really lived in the ninth century B.C.
a legislator of the name of Lycurgus." Lycurgus formed the constitution which gave Sparta its
peculiar institutions, and which established its place in history. His laws were intended to
check luxury and to inculcate the simplest habits. Some of his important laws led to the introduction
of the following customs:--

1. All the men ate at common tables, fifteen at a table.

2. Children sat at these tables, but were required to maintain silence save when addressed.
They were not allowed to ask for food. The object was to teach them good manners, to inculcate
implicit obedience, and to impart to them the wisdom of the Spartan fathers.

3. The food was of the simplest kind.

4. Sparta was divided into nine thousand parts, a part for each of the nine thousand citizens,
or noble families. The provinces under Spartan rule were divided into thirty thousand parts,
a part for each Perioeci family.

5. Iron was made the only money, so that the people could not become rich; for its great weight
rendered burdensome the possession of a considerable amount.

6. All children belonged to the State, to which only soldiers were valuable, therefore weak
or deformed children were cast out. Marriage was also controlled by the State.

Lycurgus exerted a great influence upon Sparta, and his laws were responsible for her peculiar
political system and her resulting greatness.

PYTHAGORAS

Pythagoras, though not a Spartan, is associated with southern Greece. Little is known of his
early life. He was born on the island of Samos, about B.C. 582. He was familiar with the Ionic
philosophy, and probably visited Egypt for study, a custom common among scholars of that time.
Such a visit would in part explain his knowledge of mathematics, as the Egyptians had long
been masters in that science. One of his teachers was Thales, the father of philosophy. The
fundamental thought of the Pythagorean philosophy was the idea of proportion and harmony.

"Through number alone, the quantitative relations of things, extension, magnitude, figure (triangular,
quadrangular, cubic), combination, distance, etc., obtain their peculiar character; the forms
and proportions of things can all be reduced to number. Therefore, it was concluded, since
without form and proportion nothing can exist, number must be the principle of things themselves,
as well as the order in which they manifest themselves in the world." (Schwegler's "History
of Philosophy.")

While mathematics was the central idea of his system, medicine, physics, and philosophy were
also taught in his school.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] The Perioeci (dwellers around) were the older population of the land, who inhabited the
mountains and hillsides about Sparta. They were farmers, and they also worked the mines and
quarries, manufactured articles for the Spartan market, and carried on the commerce. Though
freemen, they were allowed no part in the government, could not bear arms, and had to pay tribute
to Sparta.

[19] The Helots were probably peasants who occupied the land about Helos, and, defeated in
war, became Spartan subjects. They could not be sold or given away, but belonged to the inventory
of the farm.

CHAPTER XI

ROME

=Literature.=--Bryce, The Holy Roman Empire; Bury, The Roman Empire; Church, Pictures from
Roman Life and Story; Clarke, Ten Great Religions; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of Roman Empire;
Lord, Beacon Lights; Capes, Roman Empire; Merivale, History of the Romans; Shumway, A Day in
Ancient Rome; Mommsen, History of Rome; Liddell, History of Rome; Ploetz, Epitome of Universal
History; Gilman, Story of Rome; Collins, Ancient Classics; Monroe, Source Book of the History
of Education.

=The Age of Augustus.=--The history of Rome covers a period of a thousand years. From the little
village on the Palatine Hill Rome grew to be the mightiest empire of the world. The "Age of
Augustus" represents not only the summit of military glory, but also the highest civilization,
and the noblest ideals of the Roman people. It was the age of Vergil, Horace, Ovid, Livy, and
Seneca. Rome was at peace with the world, and therefore had time to devote to art, literature,
and other intellectual pursuits. It was during this period that Christ was born.

Like Sparta, Rome for a long time maintained her supremacy by force of arms, and therefore
encouraged physical education. But when she became mistress of the world, and came in contact
with the culture of the Greeks, she began to feel the need of an intellectual and aesthetic
development. Accordingly it became the fashion to study Greek, to bring teachers from Athens
to Rome, and to send young men to Athens to study. The Roman Empire was therefore the medium
through which Grecian culture was transmitted to the western world, and during the Augustan
Age the center of learning was transferred from Athens to Rome.

=Geography and History.=--We have seen that Rome began with a small territory in the center
of Italy, and that province after province was added, until in the time of Augustus she ruled
the world. Italy, the center of the empire, has a diversified surface, a mild climate, and
a fertile soil. In the time of Augustus, the Roman Empire embraced all of the border of the
Mediterranean, extended as far north as the North Sea, as far east as the Euphrates, as far
south as the Sahara, and west to the Atlantic. With the great Mediterranean entirely under
its control, including the seas, bays, and rivers tributary to it; with its rich territories;
and with its vast population, which represented most of the enterprise and civilization of
the world,--this great empire possessed wonderful advantages for the spread of Christianity,
for the dissemination of intelligence, and for the improvement of the human race.

The government of the Romans was generally some form of republic, the people always being jealous
of their rights. Their religion took on gross forms of idolatry, for they readily adopted and
worshiped the gods of the Grecians, Egyptians, and other conquered peoples. Temples to Faith,
Hope, Concord, and other virtues were erected and maintained. The Romans were very superstitious.
These facts have a bearing upon Christian education, and will explain some of the chief difficulties
which it had to encounter.

=The Home.=--While in Athens the father had charge of the education of the boy in his early
years, in Rome that duty devolved almost entirely upon the mother. In early Roman history the
matron was celebrated for her virtues--fidelity to her husband, love for her children, and
queenly guardianship of the sacred precincts of the home. The name of the Roman matron became
a synonym of all that is noble, wifely, and motherly in the home. Without doubt the character
had sadly deteriorated at the period of which we write, but there still remained with many
the lofty ideals which had been fostered in earlier times.

The husband was the head of the house, but to the wife was committed the care of the children
and their instruction for the first six or seven years of their lives. She taught them strict
obedience and politeness, and instructed them in the "Twelve Tables of Roman Law."[21]

The mother also took great pains to teach her children correct pronunciation. She taught them
their letters, first the name and then the form, a practice which is pedagogically false, as
Quintilian pointed out. She also taught them poems from the great masters. In taking pains
with pronunciation she prepared the way for later training in oratory, which was the most important
study in Roman education.

Only when Rome had begun to decay did mothers commit the training of their children to nurses
and slaves. When Rome was at her best, the child grew up in an atmosphere of love under direct
care of the mother, who shaped his morals and guided his religious life as well as his early
mental development. Around the mother centered all that was ennobling and elevating in the
first seven years of the child's life. The father had but little to do with this period, and
did not interfere with the mother's work. His duty lay in public life; hers lay within the
home, and well did she meet her responsibilities until the time of her debasement with all
the other elements of Roman society.

=Elementary Education.=--At six or seven years of age the child was sent to school in charge
of a slave, who carried his books and protected him from harm. This was in imitation of the
practice in Athens, where the pedagogue performed a like office. But the duties of the Roman
slave do not seem to have been as responsible as those of the Athenian pedagogue. As we have
seen, in Rome the mothers looked after the morals of their children with great care, and the
attendant of the child to school was regarded as but little else than a servant. In some of
the wealthier and more aristocratic families, however, in addition to the slave who performed
the menial duties mentioned, there was also a pedagogue who attended the youth to school and
to the theater, superintended his games, and, in short, accompanied him wherever he went. This
pedagogue was intrusted with full power to discipline and to direct the morals of his charge.
In some cases several boys were placed in the care of the same pedagogue. On the other hand,
it often happened that a boy had a whole retinue of slaves, each having his special duty to
perform.

The schools were in charge of literators, usually men of little culture and no social standing.
These institutions were public, though supported by private means. The discipline was severe,
strict obedience being exacted by the teacher, who made use of the rod when he thought it necessary.
The subjects taught were reading, writing, and arithmetic. Great care was taken with pronunciation,
just as had been done in the early years under the mother's instruction. In writing, the characters
were traced with the stylus on waxed tablets. Arithmetic was learned for its utility. Indeed,
the whole purpose of the schools was to prepare the children for practical life. The easier
poets were read, explained, and committed to memory, not so much for their content as to fit
youth for public speaking. Obedience, politeness, modesty, cleanliness, and respect for teachers
were virtues insisted upon. These schools, which covered the instruction of children from five
to twelve years of age, did not, as already intimated, reach the very highest classes, who
preferred to employ private tutors.

=Secondary Education.=--At twelve the boy entered a school taught by an educated man, called
literatus. Many of the teachers of this class were Greeks. Here, in addition to the studies
of the elementary school, the pupils were taught the Greek and Latin languages; and the poets,
history, oratory, philosophy, and criticism were also studied. The school of the literatus
was much better than that of the literator, but it reached only a limited number of the Roman
youth.

=Higher Education.=--Upon entering his sixteenth year, the boy was inducted with ceremony into
the dignity of manhood, and was clothed with the toga virilis, the dress of men. He now chose
his calling and began definite preparation for it. Five vocations were open to him,--namely,
oratory, politics, arms, law, and agriculture. Those without talent or inclination for any
of the others devoted themselves to agriculture. They were taken to the farms, where they received
definite instruction in the principles and practices of this occupation. To those who chose
oratory, politics, or law, were assigned persons experienced in their respective fields, and
the boys were taken to the forum, the senate, and other places where they could hear renowned
orators and become familiar with public life. They had also definite instruction in their chosen
branch. Those who entered the army were placed in charge of military officers, who taught them
military tactics and the practical duties of life in camp. These learners also gave attention
to oratory and other intellectual studies.

It will thus appear that in their schools, as in life, the Romans were thoroughly practical.
Each boy was carefully prepared for the life which he had chosen, by being inducted into it
during his school course. Cicero asked the question, "What have we to learn?" and answered
it, "To honor and strengthen the State, in order that we may become the rulers of the world."
Roman parents demanded that their children should be trained in the practical duties of life,
in order that they might know how to become rich. Therefore all training for children was in
this direction.

While this in general was the purpose of education, the Romans had their ideal of what an educated
man should be, and that ideal found its expression in the name of orator. He who was the best
orator was the best educated man. The schools, however, were for boys, little account being
taken of the education of girls except in household duties. Still, women were more respected,
and had wider privileges than they had before enjoyed. Most of the wealthy citizens employed
Greek tutors for their sons, and sought to ape Grecian manners and culture. Education was completed
by study in Athens and by travel--advantages within reach only of the very wealthy.

=Criticism of Roman Education.=--1. It took great care to instill respect for law and obedience
to parental and civil authority.

2. It honored the home and taught respect for the mother. In this, Rome took a great step in
advance over many nations of antiquity.

3. It was not a State institution, and therefore could not offer equal advantages to all.

4. Its end was to prepare the youth for practical life and to fit him for the acquirement of
wealth, rather than for the development of all the human powers.

5. It was superficial, and sought to apply Greek culture to Roman conditions and character.

6. It did not take a strong hold upon the Roman people so as to shape the course of the nation.

7. It ignored the claims of the masses, including women, to equal education and equal rights.

FOOTNOTES:

[20] "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," Vol. I, p. 2.

[21] The "Twelve Tables" were formulated about B.C. 450. They constituted the code of written
law, and were written or engraved on tables of wood. They settled usages long in practice,
but never before written, defining the rights of plebeians and patricians. They were agreed
to only after ten years of dispute and mutual concession. They resembled Solon's laws, owing,
doubtless, to the commission which was sent to Greece to study the laws of that country. These
tables were destroyed when the Gauls sacked Rome (B.C. 390), but their contents had been widely
committed to memory, and were handed down from generation to generation. The mothers saw to
it that these laws were early taught to their children, who thus came to venerate them and
to have respect for authority.

CHAPTER XII

ROMAN EDUCATORS

=Literature.=--(See Literature, Chapter XI.) Forsyth, Life of Cicero; Spofford, Library of
Historical Characters; Watson, Quintilian's Institutes (Pedagogy, in Bks. I & II).

CICERO[22] (B.C. 106-43)

Cicero was born B.C. 106, of noble parents. As a boy he had the advantage of the best schools
and teachers that Rome could furnish. Later he studied at Athens, under the greatest Greek
masters, and became proficient in the Greek language. According to the common practice among
the better classes in Rome, he spent some time in travel to complete his education, visiting
Egypt, Asia Minor, and other parts of the known world. But Cicero's education can hardly be
said to have been "completed" as long as he lived, for he remained a student even in the midst
of his most exacting duties of State, and often employed teachers, especially in oratory. Forsyth
says of him, "Philosophy and oratory seem to have been the two chief objects of his study;
but if of any man before Bacon appeared that might be said which the great master of modern
philosophy claimed for himself, that he 'had taken all knowledge for his province,' it might
be truly declared of the youthful Cicero. His appetite for knowledge was insatiable, and his
desire for distinction boundless."[23]

Becoming an advocate in Rome, he devoted himself chiefly to the defense of men high in position,
often those who were charged with bribery, extortion, or other abuse of political trust. Some
of his finest orations were delivered on these occasions. In the meantime he lost no opportunity
to advance his own political interests. He was elected to one office after another until he
reached the height of his political ambition,--the consulship of Rome, the loftiest position
attainable by the Roman citizen. As consul he devoted himself with such zeal, integrity, and
success as to win the title "Father of his Country." While he held this office he exposed the
conspiracy of Catiline and saved Rome from civil war. He conducted the office with honesty
and efficiency. Indeed, at a time of great corruption, Cicero stands out during his entire
life of nearly sixty-four years as the purest patriot, the broadest-minded statesman, the noblest
man of the age. His honesty in public or private life is unquestioned. Of his intellectual
greatness Forsyth says, "The greatness of his intellect dwarfed that of every other man alive."[24]

That he was vain of his accomplishments admits of no doubt. That he also sometimes lacked moral
courage and was vacillating seems also true. But he was incorruptible in a corrupt age; above
reproach when impure life was the rule; and when treason was common, he remained a firm patriot.
His celebrated "Philippics" were delivered against practices which indicated the approaching
ruin of the republic. That ruin was complete when the Second Triumvirate was formed,--an event
which also sealed the doom of Cicero. Upon learning that he was proscribed, Cicero attempted
to escape from Italy, but was overtaken and assassinated. His head and hands were carried to
Rome and presented to Antony, who gave the head to his wife, Fulvia, whose crimes Cicero had
often rebuked. Forsyth says, "She took it, and placing it on her lap, addressed it as if it
were alive, in words of bitter insult. She dragged out the tongue, whose sarcasms she had so
often felt, and with feminine rage pierced it with her bodkin. It was then taken and nailed
to the rostra, together with the hands, to molder there in mockery of the triumphs of his eloquence,
of which that spot had so often been the scene. A sadder sight was never gazed upon in Rome."[25]

=Cicero's Pedagogy.=--It is not as a teacher, but as a writer, that Cicero demands a place
in educational history. His writings furnish the finest examples of Latin style, and his orations
are studied for their classic beauty and rhetorical finish. He wrote many philosophical works,
in which are set forth advanced ideas on education. Especially was he in advance of his age
in regard to the punishment of children. He held that corporal punishment should be resorted
to only when all else has failed; that the child should not be degraded in the mode of punishment;
that punishment should never be administered in anger, should be deferred until ample time
for reflection has been allowed to both teacher and pupil; and that reasons for it should be
given, so that, if possible, the child may be led to see the justice of the punishment inflicted.
The teachings of Cicero on this subject are of great pedagogical importance, and they have
at last come to be recognized in the school practice of the present day.

While these were Cicero's most important pedagogical teachings, he also taught many other truths
valuable in education. Among them are these: that education begins in childhood, and is a steady
growth throughout life; that memory should be cultivated by learning extracts from classic
authors; that great care should be taken to make the amusements and environments of the child
such as to elevate and refine, as well as properly to develop its powers; that at the suitable
time some calling should be chosen for which the youth has evident fitness; that religion is
the basis of morals, therefore careful attention should be given to religious instruction.

SENECA (B.C. 3-A.D. 65)

Seneca was one of the most distinguished men that Rome produced. Even as a boy he showed remarkable
talent, and his father furnished him the best educational opportunities by placing him under
the greatest masters in the city. He also had the benefit of travel in Greece and Egypt, after
which he practiced law in Rome. The student of education is interested in Seneca chiefly as
the tutor of Nero, who was committed to his charge at the age of eleven. Without doubt the
lad had already formed vicious habits, as his teacher had great trouble in managing him; nor
did Seneca eradicate those evil tendencies which bore such terrible fruit in Nero's later years.

Nero retained his love for his teacher for a long time, keeping him as a trusted counselor
for several years. Seneca drew up all of Nero's state papers, among others one defending the
crime of matricide, Nero having put his own mother to death. This brought deserved odium upon
Seneca's name. It indicates that he was a time-server, lacking moral independence and firmness.
This may explain his failure in the training of his royal pupil. Nero himself wearied of his
old teacher and friend, and condemned him to death. Seneca, however, committed suicide, a mode
of death quite in accord with his Stoic philosophy.

Seneca was the most eminent writer, rhetorician, and orator of his time. He anticipated many
modern ethical teachings, and in some of his writings we find a strong religious sentiment,
quite like that of Christianity, leading one to think that he may have been influenced by Christ
and his disciples, with whom he was contemporary. On the other hand, some of his teachings
are decidedly repulsive to Christianity.

=Seneca's Pedagogy.=--1. Like Cicero, he believed that punishment should be mild and reasonable.
"Who condemns quickly, condemns willingly; and who punishes too much, punishes improperly."

2. The office of education is to correct the evil tendencies in the child.

3. The character of each child must be studied, and each individual should be developed according
to his peculiarities.

4. Do not flatter the child, but teach him truthfulness, modesty, and respect for his elders.

5. Take great care that the environment of the child is elevating, and allow only pure and
ennobling examples to be reflected before him.

6. Give the child but few studies, in order that he may be thorough and acquire right habits
of learning.

7. The office of teacher is one of the most important of all offices. "What the teacher, who
instructs us in the sciences, imparts to us in noble effort and intellectual culture, is worth
more than he receives; for, not the matter, but the trouble; not the desert, but only the labor,
is paid for.... Such a man, who consecrates his whole being to our good, and who awakens our
dormant faculties, is deserving all the esteem that we give a benevolent physician or our most
loved and dearest kindred."

QUINTILIAN[26]

No other Roman contributed so much pedagogy to the world as Quintilian. He was born in Spain,
but early moved to Rome, in order to be trained in the atmosphere of culture which that city
alone afforded. His education was conducted by his father, a celebrated rhetorician, to whom
he owed the particular direction of his powers which afterward made him so famous. He chose
the law as a profession, because it offered the best opportunity for the exercise of oratory.
Not finding the practice of law congenial, he soon abandoned it, and devoted his time to teaching.
He founded a school at Rome, and conducted it with great success for twenty years, having for
pupils children from the most distinguished patrician families. Among these were the grandnephews
of Domitian, possible heirs to the throne. This was the best school in Rome at that time. Vespasian
honored Quintilian by creating for him a chair of rhetoric and conferring upon him the title
"Professor of Oratory." This is the first instance in history of State endowment of a chair
for teaching a specific subject. Royal recognition was not without effect upon the fortunes
of Quintilian, as it placed him in the front rank of the teachers of Rome. This, together with
his subject, the teaching and mastery of which were considered by the Romans to be the climax
of education, enabled him to wrest supremacy from the Greek teachers who so long had enjoyed
a monopoly of teaching in the city.

When fifty-three years of age, Quintilian retired from his school, and devoted himself to authorship.
In the first two books of his great work, "Institutes of Oratory,"[27] he sets forth his ideas
on education. This is the most remarkable treatise on education bequeathed to us by antiquity.

He taught that as oratory was the climax of Roman education, especial attention should be given
to it. He was not in sympathy with the prevailing use that was made of oratory. Oratorical
contests were frequent, and they excited popular interest. Courts, lawyers, and public speakers
resorted to all the tricks of speech to win popular favor, and audiences demanded something
startling, dramatic, and unusual. Quintilian tried to stay this tide, and taught that oratory
should conceal itself. He met, however, with poor success in reforming the evil.

=Quintilian's Pedagogy.=--His pedagogical teachings, some of which we present, are of the greatest
importance.

1. There should be no corporal punishment, as punishment administered to slaves is not suitable
for children who are to be citizens.

2. Nurses must be irreproachable in life and language, so that children be not brought in contact
with anything impure.

3. Amusements should be turned to account as a means of education.

4. Teachers should be men of ability and of spotless character.

5. Children should begin early with a foreign tongue, as their own language will come to them
naturally in their intercourse with those about them.

6. Education should begin with the earliest childhood.

7. The forms and names of the letters should be learned simultaneously, playthings being utilized
to assist in this.

8. Care should be taken that children do not acquire a distaste for learning.

9. In learning to read, advance very slowly.

10. Writing should begin with tracing, and the copies should consist of moral precepts.

11. The individuality of the child should be studied.

12. Public schools are preferable to other means of education, because they do not subject
the child to greater moral danger, while they stimulate him by association, friendship, and
example, to nobler endeavor.

13. Under the literatus, grammar, composition, music, geometry, astronomy, and literature are
to be studied.

14. The climax of education should be rhetoric.

=Other Roman Educators.=--Among the other Roman educators may be mentioned Plutarch (50-138
A.D.) and the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Plutarch in his "Parallel Lives" gives particular attention
to morals. He offers valuable suggestions as to the training of children, laying great stress
upon family life, an admonition particularly needed in Rome at that period. He also urges that
women should be educated in order properly to train their children, being one of the first
to consider this question.

Marcus Aurelius, called "the philosopher on the throne," in his "Meditations" gave expression
to most lofty thoughts, showing keenest self-examination and obedience to conscience. His moral
teachings are among the noblest of all the writers of antiquity.

FOOTNOTES:

[22] Forsyth, "Life of Cicero." This is a very complete, just, and discriminating treatment
of Cicero and his relation to the times in which he lived.

[23] "Life of Cicero," Vol. I, p. 30.

[24] Vol. II, p. 213.

[25] Vol. II, p. 317.

[26] Authorities differ as to the dates of Quintilian's birth and death, placing his birth
at from A.D. 35 to 42, and his death from A.D. 95 to 120. Drieser, who is perhaps the best
authority, places his birth at A.D. 35, but does not fix the date of his death, which, however,
was probably much later than A.D. 95 as he lived to a ripe old age.

[27] Institutio Oratoria.

INTRODUCTION

Oriental civilization was based on the theory that the individual belonged to the State, and
could have no interest except that which was bound up in the interests of the State. Christianity,
on the other hand, taught that while the individual has duties which he owes to the State,
and while he must look to the State for his protection, and for the preservation of his material
interests, he owes a higher allegiance elsewhere, and no fetters can be placed on the aspirations
or wants of his own soul. In a word, Christianity taught the importance and worth of the individual.

The great teachers, Confucius, Buddha, Socrates, Plato, had many glimpses of truth, but Christ
is truth itself. He discovered to the world the final principle of the value of the human soul,
and brought to fruition the truth that "all men are equal before God." This thought made human
development possible; a new principle was introduced upon which civilization could build and
advance, and improve to the end of time. Perhaps the highest test of civilization is found
in the respect shown to women. Measured by this test, the oriental nations have made but little
progress, as the position of woman with them is much the same to-day as it was centuries ago.
While this is true of each individual nation, we have found among the nations themselves, as
we have traced the growth of civilization, steady improvement in the condition of woman. Thus,
in Athens and Rome, where we find the highest types of ancient civilization, there was also
the greatest respect for woman. In no country of the East was it equaled. If the Jews are mentioned
as an exception, it must be admitted that the Jewish women held the highest place among those
of antiquity; but this eminence was given by the Jews only to the women of their own race,
and was by no means universally accorded to womankind, as it is by the spirit of Christianity.
If we discover a greater respect for woman in Rome or Athens than in China or India, it only
shows the movement of civilization toward the west.

The coming of Christ marked a new era both in religion and education. Let us look at some of
the lessons which Christianity teaches.

1. God is the common Father of all men.--This does not limit the blessings of the world to
the Jew and exclude the Gentile. All men of whatever race or color may approach God as their
Father, and all are equal in his sight. This gives hope to all, and makes possible an exercise
of faith in the present and in the future life. It proclaims a higher citizenship than that
of the State, and demands allegiance first of all to God.

2. The universal brotherhood of man.--This principle sweeps away castes, abolishes slavery,
destroys class distinctions, and gives equal rights to all men. It stimulates love for fellow-men,
checks selfishness, promulgates peace and good will, and implants the spirit of the Golden
Rule in the hearts of men.

3. Marriage is a divine rite and husband and wife are equal.--Nothing like this teaching had
been practiced in the pagan world. Woman was simply the servant, the creature, of man. She
was to do his bidding, and might be divorced for trivial cause, or for none. Man was supreme
and his will was law. The home in the Christian sense did not exist, because the husband and
wife were not one.

4. Children are the gift of God.--This was a Jewish as well as a Christian teaching. If children
are the gift of God, the power of life and death over them cannot rest with the father, as
in China, Persia, or Rome. It is the duty of the father to preserve them, teach them, train
them for this life, and prepare them for the life to come. Since the children come from God,
the pious parent must consider them as a sacred trust which he does not neglect. Hence he must
see to it that they are properly educated.

5. The central pedagogic truth of Christ's teaching is this: All education is for the individual.
Oriental education had for its end the interests of the State. Christian education has for
its end the interests of the individual. The State is the creature of man, and not man the
creature of the State. Man will create, and support, and preserve the State for his self-protection
and for his own good. The highest ideal of the State is that in which the people rule, that
which furnishes the greatest liberty. This is the logic of Christianity, and the logical conclusion
of education. It is really for the individual. The world has been slow to learn this lesson
taught by Christ; but now it is mastering it more thoroughly every day, as shown by the more
liberal forms of government, the broader interpretation of courses of study, and the greater
attention to the needs of the individual child.

All these teachings of Christianity have a direct educational meaning, and suggest lessons
for all humanity. For the school is not the only contributor to the education of a people.
Every truth that affects mankind, every principle that touches the home or the State, has its
influence upon the life and character of the individual, and is, therefore, an element in his
education.

The natural consequence of these principles is that education must be universal. Every child
must be fitted for the duties of life, both for his own sake and for the sake of the State
of which he is a part. As an individual, he must work out his destiny, and to make this possible
in the broadest and best sense from the Christian standpoint both mind and heart must be developed.
As a member of the State he must assume duties in public affairs which require the possession
of superior intelligence. This is particularly true in free governments which are the logical
product of the spirit of Christianity. While the idea of universal education had its beginning
with the Christian era, we shall see that many centuries elapsed before it reached its fulfillment.
There were many serious and almost insurmountable obstacles against which the early Christians
had to contend, and these made progress necessarily slow. Let us look at some of these obstacles.

=Their Poverty.=--The early Christians were almost without exception poor. Christ appealed
to the poor and lowly, and chose his disciples from among them. The acknowledged followers
of the Nazarene had to face confiscation of property, persecution, death. Homeless and without
protection they wandered about, and had neither the opportunity nor the right to acquire property.
They, therefore, had little means to apply to the education of their children. They could neither
establish schools nor employ teachers; they could give only such instruction as the limitations
of their poverty, their misery, and their fear permitted. Consequently, only the most meager
training could be secured, and that almost wholly in religious matters.

=Their Own Ignorance.=--Chosen as they were from the lowly ranks of life, many of the early
Christians were ignorant. Most of them were servants and slaves, who had been converted from
paganism, and who did not possess even the rudiments of education. They had to be instructed
in the rites and ceremonies of the Church, and in the practices and requirements of their new
belief. Unlettered as they were themselves, they could scarcely undertake to educate their
children. It is marvelous that under these conditions any attempt was made to do it; yet we
find that great pains were taken even in the early centuries of the Christian era to perform
this duty toward those who were regarded as gifts of God and heirs of salvation.

=Their Small Number.=--Even when free from persecution and under comparatively happy conditions,
they were so scattered and so few in number, as well as so poor, that to maintain schools was
almost an impossibility. They would not permit their children to attend the pagan schools,
as they feared moral and intellectual contamination. The only safety, especially for the converts
from paganism, was in being "separate from the world" about them. So where their numbers were
sufficient they established schools of their own. But in many communities they could not do
this; hence they could only teach their children at home.

=Opposition of the Rulers.=--Rome ruled the world, and her highways, her commerce, her military
expeditions, and her mighty enterprises furnished excellent means for the spread of Christianity.
But while Rome had many religions, adopted from her conquered peoples, Christianity was so
different from these that the rulers were readily brought to regard the Christians with suspicion.
Humility, returning good for evil, refusal to avenge, were contrary to the Roman spirit. Therefore
many persecutions followed, which disturbed the life of the Christians so as to make impossible
the work of educating their children.

=Lack of Christian Literature.=--The early Christian Fathers fully realized the dangers that
surrounded their children. To come in contact with pagan schools, or even with pagan literature,
they felt to be dangerous. How easy it would be for pagan converts to fall away, or even for
others not pagan, attracted by popular influences. For Christianity was not yet popular. Hence
the only safety of the converts lay in totally abstaining from the use of pagan literature.
Here was introduced a discussion that affected the Church and educational progress for centuries,
and caused learned men when converted to abjure their favorite authors who had furnished the
material for their education in their early years. Having no literature of their own, and condemning
the use of pagan literature, the Christians found it hard to overcome the obstacles which stood
in the way of Christian education. As a result, almost the only things taught to children were
certain parts of the Bible, and the rites and duties of the Church.

=Other Difficulties.=--New ideas do not readily take hold of the world. Men naturally cling
to the old and tried, and are not easily turned to new thoughts and practices. The teachings
of Christ were so radically new that men were slow to adopt them. Their acceptance involved
a change of habit, the abandonment of customs not before regarded as evil, the yielding up
of social caste, the humbling of the individual. Herein existed a most serious obstacle to
the establishment of Christian education.

These are a few of the great difficulties that had to be met, many of which were not overcome
for centuries. We shall see, as we trace the development of education, how the new ideas which
had their birth with the Christian era struggled for recognition, how they have become established,
how they have brought great blessings to mankind, how they have aroused ambition and awakened
hope, and how they give promise of still greater advancement in times to come. The boundless
field thus opened to mankind, and the knowledge of how to enter and possess it, constitute
the world's great inheritance from Christ. But to know how to appreciate and use this inheritance,
we must study the slow and painful growth of these new educational ideals from the Christian
era till the present time.

CHAPTER XIV

THE GREAT TEACHER

=Literature.=--The Bible; Beecher, Life of Christ; Hanna, Our Lord's Life on Earth; Geikie,
Life of Christ; Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Fouard, Life of Christ.

=Life and Character.=--Christ was born in Bethlehem, spent his early life at Nazareth, entered
upon his ministry when thirty years of age, continued it for three years, and was then crucified
by the Romans at the instigation of the Jews. These are simple facts of history corroborated
by both sacred and profane writings. All agree that his was the most noble character that ever
appeared on earth. The most careful study of his life for nineteen centuries, by friends and
enemies, by scholars and critics, by philosophers and statesmen, by Christians and unbelievers,
only adds to its luster, and sustains the conviction that, though he was a man, he was also
more than man. The most critical research, the most careful examination of his life, his motives,
his teachings, only compel the testimony that he was "without spot or blemish." The great have
studied his sayings and his life, and have bowed in admiration before the sublime teachings
of the Son of Man. The simple and unlettered have listened to his words of truth and been comforted.
Faith has been awakened, hope inspired, love quickened, and man redeemed by the power of the
Christ. Millions have been influenced by the sweetness and purity of his life. The spirit of
Christianity has led to the founding of hospitals, asylums, and institutions of mercy everywhere;
to the establishment of schools and colleges; to the universal spread of education; to the
uplifting of the individual; to the furtherance of human brotherhood; and to the fostering
of peace among men and nations.

Christ produced a profound impression alike upon the great and the small. Rousseau says of
him, "The life and death of Jesus Christ are those of a god." Napoleon says of Christ, "His
birth and the story of his life; the profoundness of his doctrine, which overturns all difficulties,
and is their most complete solution; his gospel; the singularity of his mysterious being; his
appearance, his empire, his progress through all centuries and kingdoms,--all this is to me
a prodigy, an unfathomable mystery. I defy you to cite another life like that of Christ." It
has well been said that "Christ is the God who is man, and the man who is God."

Nor was the impression upon the lowly less profound. He called ignorant fishermen to discipleship,
and by three years' contact and instruction prepared them to "go into the world and teach all
nations." The inspiration of his life and teachings made them able to stand before kings, and
to "confound the wisdom of the wise."

=His Work as a Teacher.=--But the question here is not concerning Christ as the founder of
a religion, nor of his divine character or life, but of Christ as a teacher. He is justly entitled
to be called "The Great Teacher." Karl Schmidt says, "By his doctrines and through his deeds,--in
and with his entire life,--is Christ the teacher and educator of humanity." His method is the
foundation of all true teaching. Let us note some of the important characteristics of this method.

1. It was suited to his hearers.--When Christ taught the people he used material that they
could comprehend. Thus, when he spoke his parable of the sower, while he sat by the seaside,
the multitude before him had gathered from the villages and farms of the country round about.
They therefore could thoroughly appreciate the lesson. His parable of the vineyard was doubtless
suggested by the vine-clad hills of Judea, and the lessons taught were made more forcible by
their suitableness. In his conversation with the learned Nicodemus he plunged at once into
the most profound doctrines, but when he talked with the ignorant Samaritan woman, his approach
to the truth he would teach was most simple and gradual. No one ever failed to understand him,
and he is a most remarkable example of the teacher suiting himself to the capacity of his pupils.

2. It was full of illustrations.--When he wished to teach the evil of covetousness he told
of the rich man and his barns; he encouraged faithfulness by the parable of the talents; he
stimulated to fruit bearing by the story of the fig tree; he taught mercy by the account of
the Good Samaritan; joy over repentance was illustrated by the story of the ninety and nine.
And so we find that by ample and suitable illustration the Savior enforced the sublime truths
that he taught.

3. It was simple and yet logical.--There was no effort to be philosophical, yet the teachings
of Christ are full of philosophy. The language used and the manner of putting the truth were
so simple that the ignorant man and the child were never left in doubt as to his meaning. Nevertheless
his teaching was not haphazard; it was connected and logical. It contained so much of truth,
so systematically put and so much to the point in view, that, while it appealed at once to
the understanding of his hearers, it also furnished material for thought for the most learned
of all ages. Whether it was a parable or a story, an admonition or a rebuke, a sermon or a
prayer, a word of comfort to the sisters of Bethany or an argument with the chief priests,
a familiar conversation with his disciples or a stern rebuke of the scribes and Pharisees,--Christ
always expressed himself with simplicity and clearness.

4. It drew from Nature.--Christ loved to walk in the fields with his disciples and draw lessons
from the plants, the birds, the sowing of the farmer, the gathering of fruit from the vineyard,
the ripening harvests, and the whispering breezes. "Consider the lilies of the field how they
grow;" "behold the fowls of the air;" "a sower went forth to sow;" "lift up your eyes and look
on the fields; for they are white already to harvest;" "the wind bloweth where it listeth,"--these
and many other texts show that Christ was familiar with Nature, and loved to call upon her
for illustration and example.

5. It elevated the truth and sought to enforce it.--Christ gave himself a sacrifice for the
truth. He allowed no thought of personal safety or success to overshadow the truth. All his
words, his acts, his teachings, aimed at establishing the truth. He overthrew old systems and
introduced a new spirit into the world, even the spirit of truth. He was the very essence of
truth, declaring to Thomas, "I am the way, the truth, and the life." He thus gave to teachers
for all time a noble example and an immortal principle, vital to their success in true teaching.
It is the truth that must be taught and practiced by every one worthy of the name of teacher.

6. It was earnest and full of sympathy.--The earnestness of Christ aroused the populace to
shout "Hosanna!" and provoked the bitter hostility of his enemies. It drew multitudes into
the wilderness and attracted crowds wherever he went. His sympathy went out to the people as
"sheep having no shepherd." It led him to feed the multitude, heal the sick, raise the dead,
take little children in his arms and bless them, and weep over Jerusalem. He came close to
the lives and hearts of those whom he instructed. This is one of the grandest lessons that
the Great Teacher left for teachers of all time.

These are some of the chief characteristics of Christ's spirit and method. Every one of the
principles above stated is essential to the teacher, and these principles contain the sum and
substance of all true pedagogy. Well has Karl Schmidt expressed the truth, when he says, "Christ,
the perfect teacher, gave by his example and by his own teaching the eternal principles of
pedagogy."

CHAPTER XV

GENERAL VIEW OF THE FIRST PERIOD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Allies, Peter's Rock in Mohammed's Flood; Newman, Historical Essays.

This period covered the time from the birth of Christ till the Reformation. It included the
early centuries of struggling Christianity, in which old customs had to be combated, and the
new ideas, born with the coming of the Savior, and propagated by him and his followers, were
slowly and surely to take possession of the world. These fifteen centuries embrace those generally
known in history as the "Dark Ages," during which progress was indeed slow. But when we remember
the obstacles which, as we have seen, were to be met, the prejudice to be set aside, the great
changes inaugurated, and the limited means at command, we marvel at the great results attained.
Let us now briefly examine some of the factors that are prominent in Christian education during
its first period.

1. The apostles and Church Fathers were foremost in all educational matters.--These men were
not simply spiritual leaders; they caught the spirit of the Master, and sought to instruct
the head as well as the heart. They established schools and themselves became teachers, directed
educational movements, formed courses of study, and by fostering education furthered the success
and perpetuity of Christianity. Men like Paul, Origen, Chrysostom, Basil the Great, and Augustine
did much good, not only in building up the Church, but also in promoting education, the chief
handmaid of the Church. Indeed, all educational progress during the early Christian centuries
centers around the names of these men.

2. The Church was the sponsor of the schools.--During this long period the State had not yet
assumed the obligation of educating her youth, and we find only rare instances of the State
taking any part in the training of the young. No attempt at universal education was made, and
none could be made, for the Church could not furnish the means to do it; consequently nearly
all educational effort was directed to training the priesthood and providing for the perpetuity
of the Church. The Church was the mother of the schools, and to her fostering care alone do
we owe their establishment and maintenance during this long period. Her authority was supreme,
and acknowledged by all temporal powers; hence the subjects studied in the schools and the
persons chosen to share the benefits of education were such as would subserve the interests
of the Church.

3. The monasteries rendered valuable service to education.--They were long the centers of learning,
being the only places where schools existed. They were the repositories of valuable manuscripts,
which were copied with marvelous diligence and preserved for future generations. The monasteries
adopted courses of study which, however incomplete, were efficiently carried out, and formed
the basis of future courses. The influence of the monasteries for many centuries was of great
value to learning.

4. The crusades brought new life into education.--While the crusades were primarily religious
movements, they were also educational in their results. They infused new life into the stagnant
conditions of Europe. They aroused the people to physical and mental, as well as religious,
activity. They led to the establishment of schools and universities.

5. The Teutonic peoples became an important instrument of progress.--Rome began to decline,
and the Teutons of the north, whom Rome had never been able to subjugate, became her conquerors.
The Latin race had served a noble purpose in the world's history, but now another, perhaps
stronger race, joined in the work of civilization. The physical and intellectual vigor of the
various branches of the Teutonic family,--the German, the Anglo-Saxon, the Scandinavian,--which
has won for them leadership in evangelization, in commerce, in conquest, and in educational
enterprise, showed itself unmistakably during the period under discussion. These peoples now
joined with the Latin peoples in assuming the ever increasing responsibilities of Christian
civilization, and the interests of education were greatly enhanced and furthered through these
combined influences.

These are the principal agencies to which were committed the most vital interests of humanity
during the first fifteen centuries of the Christian era. We shall see that some grave errors
were made, errors that blocked the path of improvement sometimes for centuries; we shall find
that narrowness, bigotry, prejudice, and ignorance often hindered the introduction of truth
because it did not coincide with tradition; we shall see how the Church assumed prerogatives
that did not belong to her, especially in the field of scientific research, and thereby delayed
human progress; nevertheless, we shall ever remain thankful to these agencies for the encouragement
they gave to education, and for whatever good results they were instrumental in attaining.

CHAPTER XVI

THE FIRST CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS

=Literature.=--White, Eighteen Christian Centuries; Durrell, A New Life in Education; Laurie,
Rise of Universities; Lecky, History of European Morals; Allies, The Formation of Christendom;
Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Azarias, Essays Philosophical.

We have already seen that the early Christians were obliged to endure great hardships and surmount
great difficulties in securing education for their children. Indeed, during the first two centuries
almost all that was done was to train the converts in the rites and ceremonies of the Christian
Church. But as they grew stronger in numbers, and as persecution diminished, they could give
greater attention to education. Unwilling to make use of pagan schools, which could not satisfy
their chief need--to prepare for the new religion--they gradually established their own.

=Catechumen Schools.=--The first Christian schools were catechumen schools. A catechumen was
a person who desired instruction in the new faith with a view to baptism and admission into
the Church. As many of the converts had been pagans, and as all were ignorant of the requirements
of the Church as well as of the new doctrines, such instruction was absolutely necessary. Therefore
the converts were divided into classes, at first two, later, four; and instruction was given
them in the rudiments of Christianity. In the beginning the catechumen schools were for adults
only, but afterward children were admitted, and reading and writing were taught. Previous to
this change, if children received any secular instruction at all, it was given at their homes
by parents or tutors, or in the pagan schools. At the close of the second century Protogenes
established a school at Odessa, in which reading, writing, texts of Scripture, and singing
of psalms were taught. This was the first Christian common school. Other schools followed rapidly
as the persecutions ceased, until Rome became Christianized, and pagan schools gave place to
Christian schools throughout the empire. Two great names are closely connected with this movement.

CHRYSOSTOM (347-407)

One of the greatest representatives of the early Christian Church interested in education was
Chrysostom.[28] He was born at Antioch in Syria, and educated in the pagan schools, but the
influence of his devout Christian mother kept him true to her faith. He was noted for his eloquence,
hence the name by which he is known in history, for Chrysostom means golden-mouthed. John Malone
says of him, "First of the great Christian preachers after the Church came from the caves,
he was not less able as a teacher."[29] He became bishop of the Church, and was the greatest
pedagogue of his time. Some of his educational principles may be stated as follows:--

1. As Christ lowered himself to man's estate in order to raise man to his estate, so the teacher
must lower himself to the capacity of his pupils in order to elevate them.

2. Christ did not reveal everything to his disciples, suggesting sometimes truths for them
to discover; so the teacher must not do for his pupils what they can do for themselves.

3. The foundation of all true education is the Christian life and example; therefore teachers
and parents must walk circumspectly before children.

4. Women, especially mothers, are the natural educators of children.

5. Religious instruction is an essential factor of the school work. It is of the highest importance
that children should be brought up "in the nurture and admonition of the Lord."

BASIL THE GREAT (329-379)

Basil the Great was born at Caesarea. He studied at Constantinople and Athens, and sat at the
feet of the greatest pagan philosophers and teachers of his time. He was not perverted by their
teachings, but told them frankly that, though they possessed all learning, he had found something
greater than this, and that was the Christ. Basil was one of the foremost Fathers of the Church,
a great writer, and a promoter of education. He was very fond of classic literature, and, in
face of the bitter opposition of many of the Church Fathers, urged its proper use in the schools.
He was instrumental in founding monasteries, hospitals, orphanages, and refuges for the poor.

=Pedagogical Teachings.=--1. Every misdeed should be punished in such a way that the punishment
shall be an exercise in self-command and shall tend to correct the fault. For example, if a
child has lied, used profane language, or been quarrelsome, give him solitude and fasting.
If he is greedy and gluttonous, let him stand by and see others eat while he remains hungry.

2. Orphan children and those that are dependent should be taught in the cloister.

3. The Bible, with its stories, promises, history, and doctrines, should be the chief text-book.

4. Not only monks and priests should be allowed to teach, but also the laity.

5. Children while still young and innocent must be taught good habits and right precepts.

It is worthy of note that Chrysostom and Basil were the first to mark out definite lines of
Christian instruction. During this period, also, the first songs of the Christian Church originated
in the huts and caves of the poor. Thus in religious instruction and church song the foundations
of the Christian common school were laid.

=Catechetical Schools.=--The principal catechetical school was established at Alexandria A.D.
181, by Pantaenus. Others were located later at Antioch, Odessa, and Nisibis. The Alexandrian
school, however, was by far the most important. Alexandria, at the close of the second century,
was the seat of philosophy, as Athens had formerly been. It possessed the most important library
in the world, and students and sages from all parts of the world flocked to this place of learning.
Laurie says, "The great Alexander, in founding Alexandria, connected Europe, Asia, and Africa,
not merely by mercantile bonds, but in their intellectual and literary life. Here arose, under
the Ptolemies, a complete system of higher instruction, and libraries such as the world had
not before seen. The books were lodged in the temple of Serapis, and accumulated to the number
of seven hundred thousand. They formed the record of all human thought, until they fell a prey
to internal civic and religious dissensions. The Serapeum dates from B.C. 298, and, after recovering
from the fire of B.C. 48, it finally disappeared about A.D. 640."

Under the stimulus of these surroundings, and with such an abundance of literary material at
command, pagans and Christians vied with each other in their search for truth. But the pagans
had better schools and better means of preparing themselves for intellectual combat. Christian
teachers were called upon to defend their faith against subtle philosophers and trained thinkers,
who had had the advantage of excellent schools. In order to meet this apparent defect and fortify
themselves against their skillful opponents, the Christians established the catechetical school
at Alexandria, the most celebrated school of its kind at that period. It took the name catechetical
from the fact that the method of instruction was largely that of catechising, though lectures
were also given. Many pagans had been converted to Christianity, and it was necessary that
they should be taught the reason of their faith, in order that they might maintain their ground
when they came in contact with unbelievers. This was particularly necessary, if Christianity
was to hold its own, in a city like Alexandria, where so many learned men had gathered. It
was also necessary for the extension of the new faith among men of superior intelligence. Thus
the object of the catechetical school was to instruct learned men in the doctrines and usages
of the Church, to prepare believers to meet the arguments of the philosophers, and to train
teachers.

While it was a sort of theological school, it also taught philosophy, rhetoric, grammar, and
geometry. From the nature of things it will be seen that the catechetical school was for adults
only, and it may be called a kind of university, whose chief attention was given to the study
of the Scriptures and the promulgation of religious doctrine. The catechetical school was much
higher than the catechumen school in its course of study, and in the intelligence and learning
of its students and professors.

CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA (150-220)

Among the most promising of the pupils of Pantaenus was Clement of Alexandria, who was his
successor in the direction of the school. Clement was brought up a pagan, but was not satisfied
with the heathen religion, and made a careful study of Christianity. He traveled everywhere,
and sought out old men who had listened to the apostles, or whose parents had done so; and
thus he hoped to learn the truth directly. As a result of his research, he became profoundly
impressed with the purity of the morals of the Christians and the truth of their religion.
He was a great teacher as well as Father of the Church.

=His Pedagogy.=--1. Faith is the cornerstone of knowledge.

2. Mosaic law and heathen philosophy are not opposed to each other, but simply parts of the
same truth. Both prepared the way for Christianity. Jewish law and Greek philosophy are steps
in the development of the world which prepare the way for revelation. Christianity is the fulfillment
of law and philosophy.

3. He brought all the speculations of the Christians and the culture of the Greeks to bear
upon Christian truth, and sought to harmonize the two.

The teachings of Clement gain in importance when we remember the bitter strife in the Church
over the use of classic literature, which lasted for centuries, and the scholastic movement
a thousand years later, which also sought to harmonize philosophy and religion.

ORIGEN (186-253)

Origen was a pupil of Clement in the catechetical school at Alexandria, and became his successor.
Besides being brought up in an atmosphere of culture in his native city, and surrounded by
influences that stimulated intellectual growth, he was fortunate in having a man of learning
for his father. From him he learned Greek, mathematics, grammar, rhetoric, logic, and a knowledge
of the Holy Scriptures. He began to teach in the catechetical school when only eighteen years
of age, a remarkable fact when one remembers that he had among his students learned pagan philosophers,
and that it was very unusual for so young a man to be allowed to teach. He was abstemious in
his habits, self-sacrificing, generous, and withal consistent in his life.

=Origen's Pedagogy.=--1. Never teach pupils anything that you do not yourself practice.

2. The end of education is to grow into the likeness of God.

3. Pupils must be taught to investigate for themselves.

4. The teacher must seek to correct the bad habits of his pupils, as well as to give them intellectual
instruction.

Under Origen, the catechetical school at Alexandria reached its highest prosperity, and its
decay began soon after his death. Already in the middle of the fourth century its power and
influence were practically gone.

None of the other catechetical schools ever reached the fame of that at Alexandria, and they,
too, gradually disappeared. Indeed, as the Roman Empire became Christianized, and as Christians
gained in education and intelligence, there was less and less occasion for the existence of
schools of this character.

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Warner's "Library of the World's Best Literature," Vol. VI, 3665. Lord, "Beacon Lights,"
Vol. I, Lecture on Sacred Eloquence.

[29] Warner's Library, Vol. VI, 3666.

CHAPTER XVII

CONFLICT BETWEEN PAGAN AND CHRISTIAN EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Lord, Beacon Lights; Spofford, Library of Historical Characters; White, Eighteen
Christian Centuries; Fisher, Beginnings of Christianity; Azarias, Essays Educational; Allies,
The Formation of Christendom; Allies, The Monastic Life; Maitland, The Dark Ages.

GENERAL DISCUSSION

As Christianity became more powerful; as the Roman nation privately and officially accepted
the new religion; as the bishops of the Church came more and more to be recognized as the vicegerents
of Christ and the apostles; as the Church authorities became convinced that tolerance of paganism
was dangerous to believers, and irreconcilable with the principles of Christianity,--as these
things became apparent, it was seen that nothing would suffice short of the utter destruction
of pagan schools. Pagan philosophy and art were tolerated only as they served the Church. Pagan
education had an earthly purpose; the new education, a spiritual aim, a preparation for eternal
life.

The pagan temples and schools preserved the spirit of paganism long after the Roman Empire
had become Christian, and the leaders of Christianity finally became convinced that ultimate
success would be reached only when these institutions were destroyed. The conflict between
these two parties continued during the fifth century and until 529, when a complete victory
was gained by the Christians. After 529 we have therefore only Christian schools to consider.
For the next thousand years education was entirely in the hands of the Church, whose power
was not always exercised for the good of humanity, but often for the furtherance of her own
ends. Still, it must not be forgotten that all that was done for education was done by her,
and therefore the world owes her a debt of gratitude, as later pages will show. She did not
undertake the education of the masses, a task that was beyond her power, and perhaps beyond
the scope of her vision. Yet great honor is due the Church for what was accomplished in education
during the Middle Ages, and to her alone must be given credit for an advancement in civilization
by no means small, considering the difficulties to be met and the obstacles to be overcome.
During this long period there were many bright spots in the educational firmament, many brilliant
leaders of the Church who also were conspicuous educators, and many important movements toward
higher civilization. An examination of this period has led recent historians to abandon the
term "Dark Ages." A more careful study of some of these leaders and the movements that they
inaugurated will be reserved to later pages.

We shall find the spirit of the period best illustrated by a study of two great men who are
preëminent in the educational affairs of the time,--namely, Tertullian and St. Augustine.

TERTULLIAN (150-230)[30]

Tertullian was born at Carthage of pagan parents. He was converted to Christianity when forty
years of age, and by his talent, his zeal for the new religion, and his faithfulness, he rose
rapidly until he became Bishop of Carthage. He was an orator, a writer, and a teacher. His
immoderate zeal led him into the vice of rigorism, quite foreign to the real spirit of the
Christian religion. He joined the Montanists, a sect that believed in withdrawal from the world,
the unlawfulness of second marriages, and the speedy second advent of the Savior. Having received
a thorough training as a jurist at Rome, he became a great controversialist.

He was the founder of Christian Latin literature, being bitterly opposed to everything pagan.
He would use nothing manufactured by the pagans, would not dress like them, nor have anything
to do with their schools or writings. This of course excluded classic literature, and was in
direct opposition to the teachings of the catechetical schools, especially that of Alexandria.
Tertullian's attempt to create a literature for the schools which should take the place of
classic literature, while it produced discord for centuries, and influenced other great men
to follow his example, had no permanent result. Perhaps the downfall of paganism may have removed
all danger to the Christians from pagan philosophy and letters; at all events it is certain
that in later centuries the Church was most efficient in preserving them. Tertullian held that
philosophy of whatever kind is dangerous, claiming that it makes man arrogant, and less inclined
to faith.

In the fourth century the Fathers of the Church were opposed to pagan literature. The "Apostolic
Constitutions" commanded, "Refrain from all writings of the heathen; for what hast thou to
do with strange discourses, laws, or false prophets, which, in truth, turn aside from the faith
those who are weak in understanding." It was urged that, "As the offspring of the pagan world,
if not, indeed, inspired by demons, they were dangerous to the new faith." This introduced
into education a narrow view, which evoked many bitter discussions, and which it took centuries
to eradicate.

ST. AUGUSTINE (354-430)

Augustine was born in Numidia, Africa. His father was a pagan, and his mother a devout Christian.
Augustine grew up in the faith of neither, and in his early years seems to have had no settled
belief. As a student, he was wild and profligate, though attentive to his studies. He became
thoroughly versed in Greek and Latin. He studied at Carthage and later at Milan. At the latter
place he made the acquaintance of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, who was instrumental in Augustine's
conversion. His life was radically changed, and he who had been the wild, careless unbeliever
became the greatest of the Church Fathers. Like Tertullian, he condemned the very classic literature
to which he was indebted for his intellectual greatness. His greatest literary works are "City
of God" and "Confessions."

="Confessions."=--In this work are found his chief pedagogical teachings. Karl Schmidt says,
"In his 'Confessions' he develops a complete psychology of the human soul, from which the pedagogue
can learn more than from many theories of education."

This work shows step by step his own development from childhood to mature manhood,--how a word,
a look, an act may awaken passions, and lead to evil desire, or stimulate to noble deed or
self-sacrificing consecration. From his own life and experiences he portrays the whole nature
of man. Augustine is called the "St. Paul of the fifth century," and he certainly was the greatest
man, since Paul, that the Church has produced. In his writings is found the most luminous exposition
of the Catholic doctrine, and probably Augustine is the most noted of all Catholic Fathers.
In the domain of theology and morals he based all teaching on authority rather than on investigation,
yet the excessive application of this principle to subjects of physical science was destined
later on to hinder investigators in the fields of scientific research. Draper says, "Augustine
antagonized science and Christianity for more than fifteen centuries." This was doubtless due
to the application of the principle of authority in fields that Augustine did not contemplate.
But we shall have occasion to recur to this subject in later pages.

=Augustine's Pedagogy.=--1. All teaching is based on faith and authority.

2. All pagan literature must be excluded from the schools.

3. The chief subject in the school course is history pursued in the narrative form.

4. Make abundant use of observation in instruction.

5. The teacher must be earnest and enthusiastic.

While the Roman Empire became officially Christian in the fourth century under Constantine,
it was not until Justinian decreed the abolition of pagan schools and temples, A.D. 529, that
paganism, as we have seen, was finally destroyed. Thus the long conflict was ended, and henceforth
we have to do only with Christian education. We now enter upon the thousand years of the world's
history known as the Middle Ages, the close of which brings us to the Reformation.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] See Draper, "Conflict between Religion and Science," p. 59.

CHAPTER XVIII

MONASTIC EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Lord, Beacon Lights; Lecky, History of European Morals; Myers, Mediaeval and
Modern History; White, Eighteen Christian Centuries; Harper, Book of Facts; Mrs. Jameson, Legends
of Monastic Orders; Gasquet, Henry VIII. and the English Monasteries; Châteaubriand, The Genius
of Christianity; Allies, The Monastic Life; Taunton, The English Black Monks of St. Benedict.

=Monasteries.=--Monasteries were established as early as the third century A.D.; but it was
not until the sixth century that they became powerful. The spirit of asceticism, urged by the
Church as one of the most important virtues, took a strong hold upon the people, and led many
to withdraw from the world. For such the founding of monasteries became a necessity. The monasteries
were the result of the ascetic spirit, and their teaching was based upon authority and not
upon free investigation or original research. Thus there was introduced into society and education
a principle that, wrongly interpreted, impeded progress for a thousand years.

Most of the time during this period the Church held supremacy over the State with authority
unquestioned. This authority was carried not only into spiritual matters, but also into social,
political, and educational affairs. Everything that conflicted with that authority, or with
the decrees of the Church, was condemned. Even scientific discoveries that did not harmonize
with preconceived and accepted theories were reluctantly received, if not absolutely rejected.
Discoverers in the realm of science were silenced, and sometimes actually punished, for promulgating
theories contrary to the teachings of the Church. A notable example is that of Galileo, who
taught the Copernican theory of the universe, and for which teaching he was condemned to imprisonment
and a ban put upon his work. This exaggerated interpretation of authority worked harm to the
Church. It seemed to be forgotten that the Bible is a book of religion and morals and not a
text-book of science.

=The Benedictines.=--The most important monastic order from the standpoint of education was
that of the Benedictines. St. Benedict founded the first monastery of the order that bears
his name--Monte Cassino, near Naples,--in 529. It will be remembered that this is the date
of the abolition of pagan schools by Justinian. On the site of Monte Cassino had stood a pagan
school. The monastery which supplanted it remains to the present day.

Benedict's two important principles--to which cloisters hitherto had been unaccustomed--were
industry and strict discipline. These principles made the Benedictine the most successful and
beneficent of all monastic orders. It grew rapidly, and within one hundred years from its foundation
there were more than two hundred and fifty Benedictine monasteries. It is claimed that the
order has produced 4600 bishops, 1600 archbishops, 200 cardinals, 40 popes, 50 patriarchs,
4 emperors, 12 empresses, 46 kings, 41 queens, 3600 canonized saints, and 15,700 authors, and
that prior to the French Revolution it possessed 37,000 cloisters. There have been times when
the wealth of this order in some states comprised more than half of all the property. The Benedictine
monks tilled the soil of the country surrounding their monasteries, literally making the "desert
blossom as the rose." They were untiring in zeal for the Church and in deeds of mercy. They
established cloister schools in Italy, France, Spain, England, Ireland, Germany, and Switzerland.
Monte Cassino (529), Italy; Canterbury (586) and Oxford (ninth century), England; St. Gall
(613), Switzerland; Fulda (744), Constance, Hamburg, and Cologne (tenth century), Germany;
Lyons, Tours, Paris, and Rouen (tenth century), France; Salzburg (696), Austria; and many other
schools were founded chiefly by the Benedictines. Among the many great teachers that they produced
were Alcuin of England, Boniface of Germany, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and Abelard. It thus
appears that the Benedictine order took a deep interest in education, and their work deserves
a most honorable place among the educational agencies of the period under discussion.

=The Seven Liberal Arts.=--We have seen that much attention was always given to religious instruction
in the Christian schools. The Bible, the doctrines of the Church, and its rites and ceremonies
were at first exclusively taught. But later secular branches were introduced. These secular
branches were known as the seven liberal arts, which comprised the following subjects:--

                                                     {Reading and
                                        {1. Grammar. {Writing.
                   {I. Trivium[1]       {2. Rhetoric.
 The Seven         {                    {3. Logic.
 Liberal Arts.     {
                   {                    {1. Arithmetic.
                   {                    {2. Music.
                   { II. Quadrivium[31]  {3. Geometry.
                   {                    {4. Astronomy.

This course required seven years. Latin was the only language used, and consequently the native
tongues suffered. The trivium was the most popular course; such knowledge was considered an
absolute necessity for any one making claim to culture. After completing the trivium, those
who wished for higher culture studied the quadrivium.

Under the term grammar were included reading and writing, as well as the construction and use
of language. In rhetoric the works of Quintilian and Cicero were studied, and sermons delivered
in the churches were made to serve for a practical application of the rules. In logic the works
of St. Augustine were used in the exercises of constructing syllogisms, of disputation, and
of definition. In arithmetic, before the introduction of the Arabic notation, numbers were
considered to have a mysterious meaning. The hands and fingers were used to indicate numbers.
For example, the left hand upon the breast indicated ten thousand; both hands folded, one hundred
thousand. For the practical purposes of life the reckoning board was used. This was a board
with lines drawn upon it, between which pebbles were placed to indicate the number to be expressed.
For example, the number 3146 would be indicated as follows:--

 |  3   |   1  |   4    |   6    |
 |      |      |        |        |
 | '''  |   '  |  ''''  | '''''' |

Music was designed for the church service. Knowledge of music was held to be positively essential
to priest and teacher. Under the term music were also sometimes included the fine arts, painting,
drawing, architecture, sculpture, etc.

In geometry Euclid was used. Lines, angles, surfaces, and solids were studied. With geometry
there seems to have been connected a meager study of geography. Early maps have been found,
one dating from the seventh century, being in possession of St. Gall monastery. Astronomy was
closely connected with astrology. Its practical application was limited to the formation of
the Church calendar, fixing the date of Easter, etc.

This celebrated course of study formed the basis of secular instruction in the monasteries,
and, indeed, in all schools, for several centuries. Religious instruction always remained a
prominent feature of the work. History had no place in the curriculum.

=Summary of Benefits conferred upon Civilization by the Monasteries.=--1. They preserved classic
literature. Though many of the Church Fathers, as we have seen, were bitterly opposed to pagan
literature, the monasteries copied it with great industry and preserved it with care. The archives
of these institutions have yielded up some most remarkable and valuable manuscripts that otherwise
would have been lost to the world.

2. They kept alive the flickering flame of Christianity. The Middle Ages were indeed dark for
Christianity, as unbelief, ignorance, and faithlessness prevailed. But the monasteries were
centers of religious interest and zeal.

3. They maintained educational interest during this long, dark period. We have seen that the
monasteries contained the only schools. Through them the Church kept up whatever educational
interest survived during the Middle Ages, and her work then conserved the energies employed
in later educational enterprise.

4. They originated a great course of study by giving to the world the seven liberal arts.

5. They furnished places of refuge for the oppressed.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] Laurie thinks that these names were first appropriately used about the end of the fourth
century.

CHAPTER XIX

SCHOLASTICISM

=Literature.=--Fisher, History of the Reformation; Lord, Beacon Lights; Thalheimer, Mediaeval
and Modern History; Schwegler, History of Philosophy; Seebohm, Era of the Protestant Revolution;
Hegel, Philosophy of History; Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Azarias, Essays Philosophical;
Schwickerath, Jesuit Education, its History and Principles.

Compayré remarks, "It has been truly said that there were three Renascences: the first, which
owed its beginning to Charlemagne, and whose brilliancy did not last; the second, that of the
twelfth century, the issue of which was Scholasticism; and the third, the great Renaissance
of the sixteenth century, which still lasts, and which the French Revolution has completed."[32]

As scholasticism, in a sense, was the rival of monasticism, and as it covered a large part
of the Middle Ages, we shall discuss it at this point. Scholasticism was a movement having
for its object the harmonizing of ancient philosophy, especially that of Aristotle, with the
doctrines of Christianity. It covered a period reaching from the ninth to the fifteenth century,
and displayed its greatest activity between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. It is called
the philosophy of the Middle Ages. The term scholastic is also applied generally to forms of
reasoning which abound in subtleties. Scholasticism was a dissent from the teachings of St.
Augustine and the ascetics. It laid chief stress upon reason instead of authority, thus asserting
a vitally different principle, which would tend to change the whole spirit of education.

The first prominent leader of this movement was Erigena, who lived during the ninth century,
and was the most interesting writer of the Middle Ages. He was also a great teacher, and was
called to give instruction at the court of Charles the Bald, and afterward at Oxford. He opposed
the prevailing tendencies of the monasteries to base all teaching on authority, and made its
foundation philosophy and reason. Schwegler[33] denominates Anselm (born about 1033) as "the
beginner and founder of scholasticism." Thus it was not till the eleventh century "that there
was developed anything that might be properly termed a Christian philosophy. This was the so-called
scholasticism."[34]

Greater than either of these was Abelard (born 1079), who by his eloquence attracted great
numbers of students to Paris. It is said that "few teachers ever held such sway as did Abelard
for a time." He made Paris the center of the scholastic movement, attracting students from
all parts of the world. He did more than any of his predecessors to give accepted ecclesiastical
doctrines a rational expression. Scholasticism influenced the establishment of institutions
of learning in England, Germany, Italy, and Spain, some of which later developed into great
universities. Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and Occam may also be mentioned as great schoolmen.
Of the first two Schwegler says,[35] "At the summit of scholasticism we must place the two
incontestably greatest masters of the scholastic art and method, Thomas Aquinas (Dominican,
1225-1274) and Duns Scotus (Franciscan, 1265-1308), the founders of two schools, into which
after them the whole scholastic theology divides itself,--the former exalting the understanding
(intellectus), and the latter the will (voluntas), as the highest principle, both being driven
into essentially differing directions by this opposition of the theoretical and practical.
Even with this began the downfall of scholasticism; its highest point was also the turning
point to its self-destruction. The rationality of the dogmas, the oneness of faith and knowledge,
had been constantly their fundamental premise; but this premise fell away, and the whole basis
of their metaphysics was given up in principle the moment Duns Scotus placed the problem of
theology in the practical. When the practical and the theoretical became divided, and still
more when thought and being were separated by nominalism, philosophy broke loose from theology
and knowledge from faith. Knowledge assumed its position above faith and above authority, and
the religious consciousness broke with the traditional dogma."

Toward the end, another thing contributed to the downfall of scholasticism. The philosophical
subtleties of discussion made the schoolmen lose sight of the main issue, and devote themselves
to the most ridiculous questions.[36] Schwickerath remarks,[37] "It can not and need not be
denied that the education imparted by the mediaeval scholastics was in many regards defective.
It was at once too dogmatic and disputatious. Literary studies were comparatively neglected;
frequently too much importance was attached to purely dialectical subtleties.... The defects
of scholasticism became especially manifest in the course of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries,
when much time and energy were wasted in discussing useless refinements of thought." That it
did a great deal of good will appear from the following summary:--

=Summary of the Benefits of Scholasticism.=--1. It attempted to harmonize philosophy with Christianity,
and may be called the first Christian philosophy.

2. It sought to base learning on reason and investigation, rather than on authority. In this
we find the first impulse of that movement which later led to the founding of science.

3. Many universities were established through the scholastic influence, notably, Paris, Heidelberg,
Bologna, Prague, and Vienna.

4. While it failed to establish them, it at least recognized the desirableness of a universal
language for schools, and a universal church for man.

5. Although, with the exception of the universities which it founded, its direct work in education
cannot be said to have been permanent, yet it imparted fresh vigor to educational endeavors.

6. Schwegler says,[38] "It ... introduced to the world another principle than that of the old
Church, the principle of the thinking spirit, the self-consciousness of the reason, or at least
prepared the way for the victory of this principle. Even the deformities and unfavorable side
of scholasticism, the many absurd questions upon which the scholastics divided, even their
thousandfold unnecessary and accidental distinctions, their inquisitiveness and subtleties,
all sprang from a rational principle, and grew out of a spirit of investigation, which could
only utter itself in this way under the all-powerful ecclesiastical spirit of the time."

FOOTNOTES:

[32] "History of Pedagogy," p. 71.

[33] "History of Philosophy," p. 186.

[34] Ibid., p. 185.

[35] Ibid., p. 186.

[36] See K. Schmidt, "Geschichte der Pädagogik," Vol. II, p. 265, for subjects of these discussions.

[37] "Jesuit Education," p. 46.

[38] "History of Philosophy," p. 189.

CHAPTER XX

CHARLEMAGNE

=Literature.=--Ferris, Great Leaders; Emerton, Introduction to the Middle Ages; Guizot, History
of Civilization; Wells, The Age of Charlemagne; Bryce, The Holy Roman Empire; Church, The Beginning
of the Middle Ages; Lord, Beacon Lights; White, Eighteen Christian Centuries; Laurie, Rise
of the Universities; Bulfinch, Legends of Charlemagne; Encyclopaedia Britannica, Article on
Charlemagne.

=History, Character, and Purpose.=--Charlemagne was not only the greatest ruler of the Middle
Ages, but one of the greatest and wisest rulers the world has known. By birth and instinct
he belonged to the Teutonic race, to which, as before stated, the world's enlightenment has
been committed. Like Alexander the Great, Charlemagne united many peoples into one, until he
ruled over the territory now included in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, and Italy,--in
fact, his empire comprised the richest part of central Europe. He designed to rebuild the Roman
Empire, and was crowned "Emperor of Rome" by the Pope, in the year 800. While he protected
the Pope and was loyal to him, he did not admit the papal supremacy in matters of State.

Two very important influences were wisely utilized by Charlemagne in his work of civilization,
namely, the political ideas of the Teutons, and the adhering power of the Christian church.
He cherished German customs, and left, in various parts of Germany, many monuments of his love
for that people. He was of commanding presence, being seven feet in height, and of good proportions,
blond in type, and of genial manners. His real capital was at Aix-la-Chapelle, but Rome was
a nominal capital. If his successors had possessed the ability, enterprise, and breadth of
view that characterized him, the world might never have known the period in history commonly
called the "Dark Ages."

=Personal Education.=--When Charlemagne arrived at the estate of manhood and ascended the throne,
he was ignorant of letters and lacked any considerable intellectual training. His education
had been that of the knight who believed that skill in the use of arms and physical prowess
were of far more importance than a knowledge of letters.[39] After he had come to the throne,
and especially after he had conquered his foes and had leisure to study the welfare of his
people, he realized his deficiencies, and sought to overcome them by diligent study.

He called to his court the most learned men of the world, received personal instruction from
them, and had them read to him and converse with him while at his meals. In this way he overcame,
in a measure, the defects of his early education. He thoroughly mastered Latin, became familiar
with Greek, and learned also grammar, rhetoric, logic, music, astronomy, and natural history.
He never learned to write well, owing to the late period of life at which he began, and to
the clumsiness of the hand accustomed to wielding the sword rather than the pen.

Among his instructors was Alcuin of England, the most celebrated teacher of his time. Charlemagne
established the "School of the Palace," and placed Alcuin at its head. Here the children of
the emperor as well as his courtiers were taught. He had his own daughters learn Latin and
Greek. France is indebted to Alcuin for its polite learning. Alcuin was also the counselor
of the emperor in the educational matters of the empire, and it was probably his influence
that led Charlemagne to adopt such broad views concerning the culture of his people.

=General Education.=--We have seen that the prevailing idea was that education should subserve
the interests of the Church. Charlemagne turned the current of thought toward the national
idea. He believed in religious training, but wanted to found a great State, and therefore insisted
that those things which encouraged intelligent patriotism should be taught. He protected the
Church, but insisted that the Church was subordinate to the State, and that his will was law
over both. Consequently he required priests to preach in the native tongues rather than in
Latin, and decreed that monasteries that would not open their doors to children for school
purposes should be closed. The priests, he insisted, should be able to read and write, should
have a knowledge of the Holy Scriptures and of the chief doctrines of the Church, and should
instruct the people in these things.

The seven liberal arts formed the basis of school instruction. Monks were not to remain in
idleness and ignorance, but were required to teach, not only in the monasteries, but also outside
of them. He also encouraged education among his nobles, and plainly intimated that merit and
not noble birth would entitle them to favor. Charlemagne visited the schools himself, and required
the bishop to report to him their condition. He thus became a superintendent of schools, being
as familiar with the educational interests of his kingdom as he was with every other interest.
He sought to teach first the priests and nobles, and after that the masses of his people. He
introduced the practice of compulsory education for all children, and decreed that truant children
be first deprived of food as punishment, and if that did not suffice, that they be brought
before him.

Reading, writing, arithmetic, and singing were taught, especial attention being given to music,
which was of use in the church services. The Apostles' Creed and the Lord's Prayer were also
taught. In 801 Charlemagne decreed that women and children should receive instruction in the
doctrines of religion, because he believed religion to be the foundation of a civilized nation.

Charlemagne's career shines out in brilliant contrast with the ignorance and superstition of
his age. The world was not yet ripe for his advanced ideas, hence when the work lost the support
of his strong personality, its effects soon became obliterated, and a retrogression of civilization
resulted.

The clergy, who had entertained but little sympathy for the enterprises of the emperor, soon
closed the monasteries to outside students, and returned to the same practices from which the
authority and energy of Charlemagne had aroused them. His work was not wholly in vain, however,
for he laid the foundations of the Prussian school system.[40]

=Summary of Charlemagne's Work.=--1. He elevated the clergy by demanding greater educational
qualifications of them and by insisting that they do their duty.

2. He gave dignity to native tongues by requiring the priests to preach more frequently in
the vernacular of the people, and thus helped to make the services of the Church of greater
profit to the people.

3. He opened the cloisters to the purposes of education, and thereby greatly extended their
usefulness.

4. He sought to perpetuate religion and insure the stability of his empire by making education
compulsory and universal.

5. He believed in the education of women.

6. He laid the foundations of future school systems, and indicated certain principles that
are still recognized as valid.

FOOTNOTES:

[39] See "Feudal Education," Chap. XXII.

[40] Professor Masius, Lectures in the University of Leipsic.

CHAPTER XXI

ALFRED THE GREAT

=Literature.=--Ferris, Great Leaders; Lord, Beacon Lights; Mombert, Great Lives; Spofford,
Library of Historical Characters; Green, History of the English People.

=History and Character.=--Alfred became king of the West Saxons in 871 at the age of twenty-three.
As a boy he had already shown remarkable energy and ability, and as a man he more than fulfilled
the promise of his early years. England was divided into several kingdoms, the Danes having
taken possession of the eastern part of the island. Alfred carried on war against them for
many years with varying success, until he made peace by skillful diplomacy in giving them territory.
He afterward showed remarkable statesmanship in winning them to peaceful acquiescence in his
sovereignty, and thus he came to rule over united England.

He laid the foundation of England's naval greatness by building ships to defend the country
against Danish pirates. Many stories are told of his simplicity, his perseverance, his strategy
in defeating his enemies, and the love with which he inspired his people. Karl Schmidt says,
"Alfred, as victor in fifty-six battles, as lawgiver, as king and sage, as Christian and man,
as husband and father, is rightly called--'The Great.'"

He was very methodical in his habits, and divided his day into three equal parts of eight hours
each: eight hours he gave to government, eight hours to religious devotion and study, and the
other eight hours to sleep, recreation, and the recuperation of his body.

=Education.=--Alfred did not learn to read until twelve years of age. His mother then stimulated
him by the promise of a book to that one of her sons who should first commit to memory a Saxon
poem. With indomitable energy he mastered reading, learned the poem, and secured the prize.
Throughout his life he gave much attention to literary matters. He translated many portions
of the Bible, as well as other books, into Anglo-Saxon, and encouraged literary efforts in others.

Without doubt the intellectual activity of Charlemagne acted as a spur to Alfred's personal
ambition and to his desire to elevate his people. Although he did not follow the example of
Charlemagne in seeking universal education for his people, he did urge that the children of
every freeman should be able to read and write, and should have instruction in Latin. The distinction
thus made in the purposes of these two great rulers has been perpetuated till the present time,
the Germans encouraging universal education, while the English have attended chiefly to the
education of the higher classes. Alfred established many monasteries and made them centers
of learning. It seems clear that he assisted in laying the foundations from which Oxford University
grew. He left his impress upon the English people as no other ruler has done, implanting love
for law, justice, freedom, national honor, and the domestic virtues which characterize that
nation. His influence is felt upon English institutions to this day.

CHAPTER XXII

FEUDAL EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Stillé, Studies in Mediaeval History; Bulfinch, Legends of Charlemagne; Emerton,
Mediaeval Europe.

Emerton defines feudalism as "an organization of society based upon the absence of a strong
controlling power at the center of the State."[41] It marks a step in the reorganization of
society which was slowly going forward during the Middle Ages. It was an element in the movement
toward freedom, in which men of large landed possessions gained the allegiance of vassals by
gifts of land, in return for which the latter bound themselves to defend the former in case
of attack. "The tie by which the higher freeman bound the lower one to himself was ordinarily
a gift of the use of a certain tract of land, together with more or less extensive rights of
jurisdiction over the dwellers thereon. By means of this gift he secured the service of the
lesser man in war, and as war was the normal condition of things, such service was the most
valuable payment he could receive."[42]

While it is true that the feudal lords were in many cases little else than robber chieftains,
especially in the earlier history of the system, it would be false to history to picture them
in general as being of that character. The knights were chivalrous in battle, ever ready to
fight for their religion, as shown in the crusades, to defend the weak, to show greatest respect
for woman, and to maintain freedom. Fortified in an impregnable castle on some eminence, with
his loyal retainers about him, the feudal baron was able to defy kings. The system marks a
stage in the development of civilization, and when feudalism fell into decline its purpose
had been fulfilled.

With such an independent manner of living, and such ideas of their own rights, it is not strange
that the knights had a form of education peculiar to themselves, and this education is full
of interest to the student. There was little in the schooling of the monasteries that could
appeal to them, and their ideas of manhood were very different from those of the ecclesiastics.
Prowess in the use of arms, skill in horsemanship, acquaintance with the chivalric forms of
politeness and with knightly manners, were of far more importance to them than ability to read
and write. Indeed, they despised book-learning as something beneath their own dignity, however
suitable it might be for their vassals. In such a school as this Charlemagne grew up. It was
a school of action rather than of thought; a school which looked to the present rather than
the future.

The education of the knights was in striking contrast with the prevailing modes. Instead of
the seven liberal arts, the seven perfections of the knight were taught,--horsemanship, swimming,
use of bow and arrow, swordsmanship, hunting, chess-playing, and verse-making. Their purpose
was to prepare for the activities of the life in which their lot was cast; that of the monasteries
was to preserve learning to fit men for the duties of the Church, and to prepare them for the
life to come. It must not be inferred, however, that the knight was unmindful of religion,
for he was inducted into knighthood by most solemn religious ceremonies and vows.

The education of the knight was divided into three periods.

=First Period.=--The first seven years of the boy's life were spent in the home under the mother's
careful direction. Obedience, politeness, and respect for older persons were inculcated, and
stress was also laid upon religious training. By the development of strong and healthy bodies
the boys were well prepared for the later education upon which they entered after the seventh year.

=Second Period.=--After the seventh year the boy was generally removed from home to the care
of some friendly knight, in order that he might receive a stricter training. Here he remained
till his fourteenth year, chiefly under the care of the lady whom he served as page. He was
taught music, poetry, chess, and some simple intellectual studies, besides the duties of knighthood,
especially in relation to the treatment of women, and to courtly manners.

=Third Period.=--At fourteen the boy left the service of his lady and became an esquire to
the knight. He now attended his master upon the chase, at tournaments, and in battle. He was
taught all the arts of war, of riding, jousting, fencing. It was necessary that he should have
a watchful eye to avert danger, protect his master, and quickly anticipate his every wish.
The service of this period completed his education, and at twenty-one he was knighted with
imposing ceremonies. After partaking of the sacrament, he took vows to speak the truth, defend
the weak, honor womanhood, and use his sword for the defense of Christianity.

This form of education was most potent in preserving knighthood for several centuries and was
a powerful factor in shaping the destinies of Europe. It was faithfulness to the vow to defend
Christianity that led finally to the overthrow of chivalry, as will appear in the study of
the crusades.

=Education of Women.=--The girls remained at home and were taught the domestic arts, as well
as the forms of etiquette which were practiced in this chivalric age, and which the peculiar
homage paid to woman made necessary. They were also taught reading and writing, and were expected
to be familiar with poetry. Daughters of the better families were sometimes collected in some
castle, where a kind of school was organized, in which they were instructed in reading, writing,
poetry, singing, and the use of stringed instruments, religion, and sometimes in French and
Latin. Among no other class during the Middle Ages was such great attention paid to the education
of women. It was the duty of mothers to see that their daughters were carefully prepared to
sustain the peculiar dignity of feudal womanhood.

=Criticism of Feudal Education.=--1. It honored woman and gave her the highest position afforded
by any system during the Middle Ages.

2. It gave the world a splendid example of chivalry, teaching manliness, courage, devotion
to the right as it was understood, and the espousal of the cause of the weak.

3. It contributed to literature through the compositions of the Minnesingers.

4. It counteracted the ascetic tendencies of the monastics by encouraging an active participation
in life's affairs.

5. It restricted its advantages to the privileged class.

6. It despised intellectual training, while laying great stress upon physical prowess.

7. It lacked the elements of progress.

FOOTNOTES:

[41] "Mediaeval Europe," p. 478.

[42] Ibid., p. 480.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE CRUSADES AS AN EDUCATIONAL MOVEMENT

=Literature.=--Michaud, The Crusades; Stubbs, Mediaeval and Modern History; Mombert, Great
Lives (see Godfrey); Myers, Mediaeval and Modern History; Guizot, History of Civilization;
Lord, Beacon Lights; Archer and Kingsford, The Crusaders; White, Eighteen Christian Centuries;
Andrews, Institutes of General History; Ridpath, Library of Universal History (article on the
Crusades).

Among the most remarkable movements that took place during the Middle Ages were the crusades.
The Saracens had overrun and conquered the Holy Land, and the Christian nations of the west
attempted to recover from the hands of the infidels the soil made sacred by the life and death
of Christ. For a long time the pilgrims who made journeys to the tomb of the Savior were undisturbed,
as their pilgrimages were a source of profit to the Saracens. But when the Turks gained possession
of Jerusalem, they began to persecute both the native Christians and those who came from abroad.
Peter the Hermit, who had suffered from these cruelties at Jerusalem, returned to Europe, and
by his crude eloquence and earnestness stirred the people almost to a frenzy. Obtaining the
sanction of the Pope, he gathered an immense crowd of men, women, and children, and started
for the Holy Land.

They encountered great hardships, many died of hunger, disease, and the hostility of the people
through whose countries they passed, and the remnant who reached the Bosporus, were totally
destroyed by Turkish soldiers.

The first successful crusade was organized by the feudal lords, who gathered an army of six
hundred thousand men under the leadership of Godfrey of Bouillon. They had connected with their
army one hundred thousand splendidly mounted men. After untold losses and horrors, which reduced
their forces to sixty thousand men, they succeeded in taking Jerusalem. They established a
Latin kingdom with Godfrey at the head, and thus accomplished the purpose for which they had
set out. This crusade lasted from 1096 to 1099.

For about fifty years the Latin kingdom held its own; but it was constantly harassed by the
Mohammedans, until it became necessary to organize a second crusade. The leaders in this were
Conrad III. of Germany and Louis VII. of France. Jealousies soon arose between the rival leaders,
who cared more for personal glory than for the purpose of the crusade. As a result, only a
small portion of the three hundred thousand soldiers ever reached the Holy Land; and this crusade,
which lasted from 1147 to 1149, resulted in failure.

Forty years later Saladin, a Mohammedan ruler, having captured Jerusalem, a third crusade was
organized. This was led by Richard the Lion-Hearted of England, Frederick Barbarossa of Germany,
and Philip Augustus of France. Barbarossa went overland, but Richard and Philip, profiting
by past experiences, made the journey by water, thus accomplishing it with greater ease and
fewer losses. The rivalries between the different nationalities engaged prevented successful
warfare; but a truce was made with the humane Saladin,[43] whereby he guaranteed protection
to the Christians, and thus the crusade came to an end. This crusade lasted from 1189 to 1192.

Other crusades followed from time to time for several centuries, with but little advantage
gained over the conditions granted by Saladin.

=Results of the Crusades.=--This, in brief, is a historical account of the crusades.[44] It
remains for us to note their educational value.

1. They drew various nations together by one common purpose.

2. They increased the knowledge of the manners, customs, culture, products, and civilization
of the East.

3. They stirred up commerce, especially that of the Mediterranean, making Venice and Genoa
great commercial centers.

4. They broke up the power of feudalism. Lord and vassal together entered upon enterprises
of danger and suffering, which were great levelers of class distinction. In the enthusiasm
of the holy cause, many feudal lords disposed of all their worldly possessions, and became
as poor as their vassals. This broke up the feudal estates.

5. They widened the horizon of thought, made Europeans more liberal, and prepared the way for
an intellectual and religious revival.

6. They emancipated philosophy from theology. As a result of movements inaugurated by the crusades,
the university of Paris established the faculty of philosophy separate from that of theology.

7. G. W. Cox says, "By rolling back the tide of Mohammedan conquest from Constantinople for
upward of four centuries they probably saved Europe from horrors the recital of which might
even now make one's ears tingle."

FOOTNOTES:

[43] See Lessing's "Nathan der Weise."

[44] It would be impossible to give a full historical account of the crusades in a work of
this kind. The reader is referred to any standard work on that subject.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE RISE OF THE UNIVERSITIES

=Literature.=--Laurie, Rise of the Universities; Hallam, Middle Ages; Guizot, History of Civilization;
Paulsen, The German Universities; Hurst, Life and Literature in the Fatherland; Brother Azarias,
Essays Educational.

We have seen that the Church had almost entire control of education during the Middle Ages.
Through her influence schools were established and maintained, learning was preserved, and
the interests of civilization were promoted. She was also influential in the founding of universities,
though not to her alone were these institutions due. Laurie says:--

"Now looking first to the germ out of which the universities grew, I think we must say that
the universities may be regarded as a natural development of the cathedral[45] and monastery
schools; but if we seek for an external motive force urging men to undertake the more profound
and independent study of the liberal arts, we can find it only in the Saracenic schools of
Bagdad, Babylon, Alexandria, and Cordova. The Saracens were necessarily brought into contact
with Greek literature, just when the western Church was drifting away from it; and by their
translations of Hippocrates, Galen, Aristotle, and other Greek classics, they restored what
may be quite accurately called the 'university life' of the Greeks."

The first universities, however, can hardly be said to have been inspired by the influence
of the Church. Nor did the State assist in their establishment, though it afterward sanctioned
them, and conferred upon them their peculiar privileges. The first universities grew out of
organizations of scholars and students who joined themselves together for the purpose of study
and investigation. The oldest institution of this kind was that of Salerno, Italy, which Laurie
says was a "public school from A.D. 1060, and a privileged school from 1100." It taught medicine
only, and was established by a converted Jew. It was entirely independent of both Church and
State, and attracted students from many countries.

The next university was that of Bologna, Italy. It also had only one faculty, that of law.
In 1158 Frederick I. recognized the institution by giving it certain privileges. It awakened
widespread interest throughout Europe, so that by the end of the twelfth century it is estimated
that twelve thousand students had flocked to Bologna, most of them from foreign lands. This
is an indication that the revival of learning was quite general throughout the world.

But the greatest university of the Middle Ages was that of Paris, which attracted at least
twenty thousand students. The university of Paris was evolved from a cathedral school, and
it always retained a strong theological tendency. Philip Augustus gave it privileges as a corporation,
and Pope Innocent III. recognized it as a high school of theology. The course of study was
by no means narrow, as it was held that broad knowledge was essential as a preparation for
theological study. Consequently it was not long before a philosophical faculty[46]--the first
in history--was added as separate from the theological faculty. The greatest name connected
with the university of Paris is that of Abelard. Early in the twelfth century he attracted
great numbers of students, and it was his personality that made Paris the greatest university
of the Middle Ages.

The university of Oxford, England, was founded in 1140,[47] that of Cambridge in 1200. The
oldest German university is Prague, founded in 1348. Then follow: Vienna, 1365; Heidelberg,
1386; Cologne,[3] 1388; Erfurt,[48] 1392; Würzburg, 1403; Leipsic, 1409; Rostock, 1419; Greifswald,
1456; Freiburg-im-Breisgau, 1457; Trier, 1472; Tübingen, 1477; and Mainz, 1477. In France,
after Paris, Toulouse, 1233; Orleans, Cahors, Caen, Poitiers, Nantes, and others during the
fourteenth century. In the same century at Lund and Upsala in Sweden, Christiania in Norway,
and Copenhagen in Denmark. Italy, Spain, England, Ireland, and Scotland also felt this wonderful
impulse. These universities were usually modeled after that of Paris.

The European universities were early granted certain privileges, many of which are accorded
to this day. Indeed, some of these privileges were assumed and allowed before the institutions
had official recognition by charter. These educational associations acquired so much influence
and power that princes and popes vied with each other to gain favor with them by granting them
special privileges. One of the most important of these is that the government of the student
body rests with the university faculty, both as to their life in connection with the university,
and also outside of it. Thus to this day if a student is arrested by the police, his case is
turned over to the authorities of the university for trial and punishment. This was an important
concession largely growing out of the fact that a great many of the students were citizens
of other countries than that in which the university was located. It will readily appear that
this privilege alone would have a tendency to create a world for university students and professors
apart from that of the citizens. Doubtless the moral tone among the former was often very low.
Students took advantage of the situation created by their peculiar privileges, and disregarded
laws which the citizens were obliged to obey. Conflicts between these two classes, therefore,
were frequent and bitter.

The universities stimulated a desire for learning, created a respect for it, and began a movement
toward free investigation, and for the promulgation of liberal ideas, which gains strength
with each decade of the world's history. They have greatly contributed to the growth of knowledge,
to the advancement of science, and to the elevation of mankind.

FOOTNOTES:

[45] The cathedral schools were institutions connected with each cathedral for the purpose
of training priests for their sacred office, but they were not limited entirely to priests.
Instructions in the seven liberal arts was imparted, and also in religion. Parochial schools
were established in many places for the purpose of training children in the doctrines of the
Church. Thus, as early as the ninth century, the Church sought to extend the benefits of education
to the people as well as to the priesthood. While the parochial schools were limited in their
instruction, somewhat after the manner of the early catechumen schools, the changed conditions
of Christianity permitted a much broader training than formerly.

[46] The complete university has four faculties, which embrace all human knowledge. The historical
order of precedence is as follows: Theology (1259-60), Law (1271), Medicine (1274), and Arts
or Philosophy (1281). The last includes all subjects not embraced in the first three. Thus
all branches of science, history, language, mathematics, etc., belong to the "philosophical"
faculty.

[47] Laurie, "Rise of the Universities."

[48] No longer in existence

CHAPTER XXV

MOHAMMEDAN EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Warner, Library of the World's Best Literature (see article on the Koran); Johonnot,
Geographical Reader; Lane-Poole, Story of the Moors in Spain; Lord, Beacon Lights of History;
Thalheimer, Mediaeval and Modern History; Stillé, Studies in Mediaeval History; Irving, Mahomet
and his Successors; Church, The Beginnings of the Middle Ages; Andrews, Institutes of General
History; White, Eighteen Christian Centuries; Myers, Mediaeval and Modern History; Mombert,
Great Lives; Clarke, Ten Great Religions; Ferris, Great Leaders; Laurie, Rise of the Universities;
Walker, John Brisben, The Building of an Empire ("Cosmopolitan," Feb.-Sept., 1899); "North
American Review," Vol. 171, p. 754.

We have thus far described the work of Christian education. Parallel with this and almost entirely
independent of it grew the educational work of the Moslems. This was a very important movement
most valuable to civilization.

=History of Mohammedanism.=--Mohammedanism dates from the time of the Hegira, or flight of
Mohammed from Mecca, A.D. 622. From this date Moslems reckon their time, as the Christian world
reckons from the birth of Christ. Mohammed first appeared as prophet when forty years of age.
The religion of the Arabs was a most degraded one, and there was great need of the reformation
which Mohammed undertook. The prophet was not well received at first, and, being obliged to
flee from Mecca, he retired to a cave at Medina, where he meditated and studied. It was during
this retirement that he wrote the Koran, the Bible of the Mohammedans. He claimed that the
angel Gabriel appeared to him, giving him a new revelation, which was more significant than
that of the Christians. Indeed, these so-called revelations were strangely suited to the varying
ambition of the founder of this religion. The Koran teaches that as Jesus was greater than
Moses, so Mohammed was greater than Jesus.

There is no doubt that the new religion was an improvement upon the degraded form of worship
that Mohammed found among the Arabs, or that in the beginning of his activity he did much to
purify and elevate his people. But as he gained great numbers of adherents, and as he acquired
power, Mohammed became a warrior, and attempted by the sword to compel belief in his doctrines.
Moslemism met with such wonderful success that already, during the life of Mohammed, all Arabia
was conquered to this belief, while his successors spread his teachings into northern Africa,
western Asia, Spain, and Turkey. They carried their triumphant arms into France, until they
were checked by Charles Martel; they overran Austria and threatened the complete subjugation
of southeastern Europe, until John Sobieski dealt them a crushing blow before the gates of
Vienna, and forever destroyed their ambition for northern conquest; they occupied Spain for
seven hundred years, and still retain Turkey as their sole European possession; they have extended
their power over many parts of Asia and Africa, until now they number about two hundred million
souls.

The five chief Moslem precepts are:--

1. Confession of the unity of God. "There is one God, and Mohammed is his prophet."

2. Stated prayer.

3. Almsgiving.

4. The fast of Ramadan, the ninth month of the Mohammedan year.

5. Observance of the festival of Mecca. Every Moslem is expected to make a pilgrimage to Mecca
at least once in his lifetime.

=Education.=--When Mohammedanism became secure in its power, it turned its attention to education.
The successors of Mohammed were called caliphs, and the caliphs of Bagdad and Cordova rivaled
each other in fostering learning. Schools were established in all large Moslem cities and in
many smaller towns. Their scholars translated the works of Aristotle and other Greek authors.
They taught mathematics, astronomy, philosophy, and grammar. They originated the science of
chemistry, and made great advances in the study of algebra and trigonometry. They also measured
the earth, and made catalogues of the stars. Every branch of knowledge was studied, and students
were attracted from all parts of Europe to their schools, especially to Cordova.

Students lived in colleges with the professors, and there was an atmosphere of culture and
investigation not equaled in any of the Christian universities of the Middle Ages.

Spain reached the summit of Moslem education during the reign of King Hakem III. (961-976).
This king fostered education, being himself a man of learning. He had a private library of
six hundred thousand volumes.

Education was not confined simply to the higher schools and universities. There were also a
great many elementary schools. The first work of these was to teach the Koran, which was used
as a reading book. The Koran gives us the most perfect picture of the oriental mind that we
possess. Children of the poor attended school from their fifth till their eighth year, when
they were allowed to go to service. Children of the rich entered school at their fifth year
and remained till their fourteenth or fifteenth year. After that, if parents could afford it,
boys traveled until their twentieth year, under care of a tutor. This completed their education.
Any person could teach who chose to do so, no authority fixing the qualifications of teachers.

The Mohammedan schools began to decline in the eleventh century. At the present time, but little
attention is paid to education in any of the countries under the sway of Islam.

GENERAL SUMMARY OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS DURING THE MIDDLE AGES

1. Paganism gave way to Christianity, and the benign influence of the latter began to be felt
in the recognition of the importance of the individual.

2. The Church undertook the direction of education, which, though necessarily limited chiefly
to the ecclesiastics, had also a great influence upon the masses at large.

3. The Church Fathers were the leaders in intellectual as well as in spiritual matters, while
monks and priests were the principal teachers.

4. The monasteries were the centers of educational activity, both in fostering scholarship
and in preserving classic literature.

5. Secular courses of study were established, the most important being the "seven liberal arts."

6. Education was based on authority, and free investigation found but little encouragement,
except among the scholastics.

7. The State assumed no part in the training of the young. Charlemagne's educational work is
an exception to this rule. He asserted the prerogative of the State to control education, recognized
the necessity of universal education, and the principle of compulsory attendance.

8. The crusades checked the growth of feudalism, aroused the intellectual as well as the spiritual
energies of the people, led to a broader conception of man's duty to his fellow-man, and prepared
the way for greater religious and political freedom.

9. As an important result of the stimulated educational activity, both among Christians and
Mohammedans, many universities were founded.

10. "The Middle Ages," says Emerson, "gave us decimal numbers, gunpowder, glass, chemistry,
and gothic architecture, and their paintings are the delight and tuition of our age."[49]

FOOTNOTES:

[49] Emerson, Progress of Culture in "Letters and Social Aims," p. 204. Boston, 1895.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE RENAISSANCE

=Literature.=--Williams, History of Modern Education; Quick, Educational Reformers; Bryce,
The Holy Roman Empire; Andrews, Institutes of General History; Fisher, History of the Reformation;
Reeve, Petrarch; Symonds, Renaissance in Italy; Seebohm, Era of Protestant Revolution; Spofford,
Library of Historical Characters; Hegel, Philosophy of History; Draper, Intellectual Development
of Europe; Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Schwickerath, Jesuit Education; Dr. Ludwig Pastor,
History of the Popes, Vol. I, p. 54, etc.

As the fifteenth century drew to a close there were unmistakable evidences of the dawn of a
better day, and the long period known as the "Dark Ages" was to be succeeded by a brighter
and more glorious era. The sway of the Church over the consciences, lives, and material interests
of men was disputed; the feudal system had begun to disintegrate; the world had been aroused
to new enterprise by the discovery and exploration of distant continents, by the invention
of paper, the printing press, gunpowder, and the mariner's compass; the Ptolemaic system of
astronomy had been superseded by that of Copernicus; the great empires of the Middle Ages had
disappeared, and upon their ruins had been constructed smaller nationalities which spoke a
language of their own. The period in which these remarkable changes were taking place is known
as that of the Renaissance. It cannot be confined to definite chronological limits, but is
the period of transition from one historical stage to another, in which there was a "gradual
metamorphosis of the intellectual and moral state of Europe." The Renaissance must be viewed
as "an internal process whereby spiritual energies latent in the Middle Ages were developed
into actuality and formed a mental habit for the modern world." It prepared the way for the
Reformation, and introduced the era of wonderful progress upon which modern civilization has
entered. It was the new birth, the regeneration (renascence) of the world.

A most important instrumentality for carrying forward the great work thus inaugurated was the
Teutonic race. The despised northern barbarians, who had conquered Rome, had become civilized
and Christianized, and were found to possess the sterling qualities which made them capable
of bearing the great responsibilities of progressive civilization. The proud Roman Empire had
at last succumbed to its internal weaknesses and vices, and had disappeared forever from the
face of the earth.

With the greater enlightenment of men had come once more an appreciation of the value of the
classic languages, and Greek, the language of the Eastern Empire, was no longer regarded with
antipathy. The revival of learning, which had its inception in Italy and spread northward,
found its most important expression in the new interest awakened in the classic languages.
It is in this, the so-called humanistic phase of the Renaissance, that the student of education
is chiefly interested. To this we turn our attention.

We have already alluded to the social conditions, the inventions, and discoveries, which prepared
the way for the revival of learning. New and powerful impulses were shaping the progress of
the world, and the leaders of the humanistic movement were not slow to utilize the instruments
thus opportunely furnished them. Chief among these was the art of printing, which enabled them
to multiply and distribute copies of the classics, that had been consigned to comparative oblivion.

Another important element must be considered if we are to understand this revival. We have
seen that during the Middle Ages the ecclesiastics largely shaped the intellectual activity
of Europe, that mystery was made of science, and that the authority of the Church was supreme
on all questions of education as well as of religion. A new and vital doctrine was taught which
had much to do with the intellectual and spiritual emancipation of man. This new doctrine may
be stated as follows:--

Man is a rational, volitional, self-conscious being, born with capabilities and rights to enjoy
whatever good the world offers.

This doctrine, it will readily appear, is capable of being perverted to an excuse for unbridled
license, as was done by the Italians; or, rightly interpreted, of being productive of great
good, as in the case of the Germans.

Another new doctrine taught was that there was goodness in man and his works even previous
to the Christian era, and that a study of the writings of all who have contributed to human
progress is essential to culture, and of value to mankind. This was an argument for the revival
of the study of Greek, which had for centuries been neglected. Indeed, Gibbon tells us that
in the time of Petrarch, "No more than ten votaries of Homer could be enumerated in all Italy."

Again, it was held that the gates of learning must be opened to all and not limited to the
clergy, the recluse, and the sage. Intellectual culture must be offered to all men, to make
them better and happier, and is not to be confined to the few for the purpose of increasing
their power and widening the breach between the classes. The Renaissance made learning popular,
it created a passion for culture, it aroused and stimulated widespread desire for greater enlightenment.
Some of the leaders in the movement, however, merited opposition because of their efforts to
introduce not only the beauties of pagan art and literature, but likewise some of their licentiousness.

We may now turn our attention to a more detailed history of this revival and its effect upon
different peoples, and to a brief study of some of its great leaders.

=Humanism in Italy.=--Italy was the first to catch the impulse of humanism. Dante, Petrarch,
and Boccaccio in the fourteenth century inspired men with their new ideas, and set in motion
influences which were attended with results often far from good. They revived the study of
Latin and Greek classics, extracted manuscripts from their hidden archives, incited in society
a passion for learning, and created a popular literature in their own vernacular. They implanted
a love of freedom of thought in the Italian masses. Their enthusiasm for the new learning attracted
scholars from Germany, France, and other countries, who spread the influence in their own lands.

The effect of humanism upon the Italian mind and life was pernicious in the extreme. It led
to infidelity, to immorality, and to a return to many pagan practices. This was owing to two
chief causes. First, the evil influence of many leaders of the Church, and second, the passionate
nature of the Italian people. Karl Schmidt says, "Humanism, but not morality, ruled in the
Vatican." Brother Azarias, in speaking of this period, says:[50] "The clergy loved their own
ease too well; they were too great pleasure-seekers and gold-coveters to attend to their flocks
with that pastoral spirit of simplicity and good faith that is to be witnessed in the Church
to-day. The bishops were no better. They looked for emoluments and court favor. Even the better
class of ecclesiastics gave themselves up to the intellectual luxury of admiring Plato and
imitating Cicero. While a general laxity of morals in all orders of religious life--among priest
and monk, pope and cardinal--was bringing odium on the Church, and weakening her hold upon
the people--especially upon the Teutonic races--the seeds of regeneration were germinating
in her own body. She was even then the mother of sanctity.... The Catholic hierarchy at last
realized that with themselves should begin the reformation they would see established; they
therefore pronounced the most withering denunciations upon the clerical and religious abuses
of the day."

The people interpreted the teaching of Petrarch that the world was made for man's enjoyment,
as a plea for license and absence of restraint. Even monks and priests, who had been held to
the rigid life of the cloister, imbued with this teaching, indulged in excesses that were subversive
of both morals and religion.[51]

But without doubt there was a great intellectual movement in Italy. Draper says, "Between 1470
and 1500 more than ten thousand editions of books and pamphlets were printed, and a majority
of them in Italy, demonstrating that Italy was in the van of the intellectual movement."

=Humanism in Germany.=--A far different result was attained among the Teutonic peoples. The
best students of Germany went to Italy, and, becoming acquainted with the new education, returned
to introduce it into their own universities. Being less directly under the influences that
obtained in Italy, and possessing the moral stability which had brought the Teutonic race to
the front, the Germans obtained good where the Italians had absorbed evil. The same principle,
with different interpretation, under different conditions, and in different soil, brought forth
far different fruit. Thus Petrarch's teaching was interpreted to mean that the good things
of earth are not to be abused, and that man's acquirements are to be consecrated to his self-development
and to the glory of God.

The German humanists revived the study of the classics, Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, until, at
the beginning of the sixteenth century, these languages were taught in every German university.
The Bible was studied in the original, and classic writings were redeemed from obscurity, printed,
and given to the world. Heidelberg and Tübingen became centers of the humanistic movement,
and Agricola, Reuchlin, and Erasmus were the great leaders.

=Artisan Schools.=--During the 13th and 14th centuries another type of schools flourished,
namely, the Bürger or Artisan Schools, whose purpose, contrary to that of the humanistic influences,
was to prepare men for practical and useful work, and to fit for citizenship. The need of these
schools grew out of the changed conditions of life, especially the growing tendency to live
in cities and to divide labor into crafts. They were supported by the secular authorities,
and ultimately they came to exert a great influence upon city governments, particularly those
of the Hanseatic league. Many of the teachers were priests, and the instruction was usually
given in the mother tongue. These schools flourished in Germany, France, Italy, Denmark, and
other countries, and they doubtless furthered the idea of the maintenance of education at public
expense, an idea that has come to have universal acceptance.

=Summary of the Influence of Humanism.=--1. It laid the foundation for future liberty of thought
and conscience.

2. It revived the study of the classic languages, and gave them a place in education which
they still hold.

3. It utilized the art of printing by placing the works of ancient authors in form to be used
by the world.

4. It increased the number of students in the universities, and stimulated intelligence among
the masses.

5. It changed courses of study, making them more practical.

6. It exerted an influence on schools of all kinds by giving better preparation to teachers.

7. It stimulated all forms of elevating activity,--in art, in science, in exploration, in invention.

8. It prepared the way for the Reformation, which broadened and perfected the work thus inaugurated.

FOOTNOTES:

[50] "Philosophy of Literature," p. 123.

[51] Ibid.

CHAPTER XXVII

HUMANISTIC EDUCATORS

=Literature.=--Spofford, Library of Historical Characters; Symonds, Renaissance in Italy; Reeve,
Petrarch; Macaulay, Essays; Warner, Library of the World's Best Literature (see articles on
Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio); D'Aubigné, History of the Reformation; Morris, Era of the
Protestant Revolution; Leclerc, Life of Erasmus; Fisher, History of the Reformation; Mrs. Oliphant,
Dante; Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Schwickerath, Jesuit Education.

The mission of the humanistic leaders was to "awake the dead," for Greek had become in the
fullest sense a dead language, and while classic Latin was still read, its spirit was not comprehended
and therefore it also was practically dead. We have seen that the Italians were the first to
catch the inspiration of this revival, and Germany, France, Spain, and England "were invited
to her feast." The great leaders of Italy were Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio. It is not the
purpose here to discuss these men in all of their intellectual activities, but simply to consider
the part of their work that had a bearing on education.

THE ITALIAN HUMANISTS

DANTE (1265-1321)

Dante was born and educated in Florence. He was favored with a devoted teacher, Brunetto Latini,
who was said to be "a great philosopher and a consummate master of rhetoric, not only knowing
how to speak well, but to write well." Under him Dante became familiar with all of the great
Latin poets, with philosophy, history, and theology. Dante always spoke of his teacher with
great affection. Those were times of revolution and political disturbance, and Dante was readily
drawn into politics. This caused his banishment and even endangered his life.

Dante's greatest work is the "Divine Comedy," which has made his name immortal. His was the
first great name in literature after the long dark period of the Middle Ages. It is said of
him that "he was not the restorer of classic antiquity, but one of the great prophets of that
restoration." He brought the Italian language into use in literature and gave to it a dignity
that it has never lost. Dante prepared the way for the humanistic movement and was therefore
an important factor in this great revival.

PETRARCH (1304-1374)

The father of Petrarch was an eminent jurist, and he desired his son to adopt his profession,
but Petrarch had neither taste nor capacity for Roman law. He was determined to be a man of
letters. Like Dante, he too mixed in politics, and several important diplomatic positions were
given to him. Though he succeeded in learning a little Greek late in life, Petrarch was not
a Greek scholar. This did not hinder him from being a warm advocate of the claims of the Greek
language as an important element of a liberal education. Although he possessed a manuscript
of Homer, "Homer was dumb to him, or rather he was deaf to Homer."

Petrarch was the real founder of humanism. Being enthusiastic for the works of antiquity himself,
he inspired the Italians with a remarkable zeal in the pursuit of classic lore; nor was his
influence confined to the limits of his native country. He was the first to make a collection
of classic works, and to bring to light the literary treasures which the monasteries had so
carefully preserved for centuries. He inaugurated that great movement which "restored freedom,
self-consciousness, and the faculty of progress to human intellect." He recognized that the
most wonderful thing in the world is the human mind, the emancipation of which can be brought
about only through its own activity. He was the first to appreciate the importance of Greek
in human culture. Unlike Tertullian, Jerome, and Augustine, he believed that classic authors,
together with the Holy Scriptures and the writings of the Church Fathers, produce the broadest
intelligence. All of these have the same purpose, and all are necessary to human enlightenment.
Petrarch broke down the unfruitful methods of the scholastics, and laid the foundations upon
which modern education is based; namely, intellectual freedom, self-consciousness, and self-activity.

BOCCACCIO (1313-1375)

The third of the great Italian leaders in the humanistic movement was Boccaccio. At the age
of twenty-five, while standing at the grave of Vergil, he decided to devote himself to a literary
career. He admired the great work of Petrarch, and was proud that, "at his own expense, he
was the first to have the works of Homer and other Greek authors brought to his native land;
that he was the first to call and support a teacher of Greek; and that he was the first among
all Italians who could read Homer in the original."

THE GERMAN HUMANISTS

The German mind is more earnest, disputative, and practical than the Italian, therefore the
trend of German humanism was at first chiefly theological, and the study of the classic languages,
especially Hebrew and Greek, was undertaken for the purpose of better understanding the Holy
Scriptures. Only a few scholars, however, were interested, and not until a violent attack was
made upon Reuchlin, was general attention attracted.

AGRICOLA (1443-1485)

Rudolphus Agricola was the first to prepare the northern countries for the reception of the
classic revival. After studying for some time under the great Italian masters, he returned
to Germany and accepted a professorship at Heidelberg, where he delivered courses of lectures
on the literature of Greece and Rome. He lectured also at Worms at the request of the bishop,
and drew around him a large number of students in both places. Hallam says of him, "No German
wrote so pure a style, or possessed so large a portion of classic learning." He prepared the
way for the introduction of humanistic teachings and some of his pupils became the great leaders
of that movement among the Teutonic peoples.

The testimony of Erasmus concerning Agricola is as follows: "There was no branch of knowledge
in which he could not measure himself with the greatest masters. Among the Greeks, he was a
pure Greek, among the Latins a pure Roman.... Even when he spoke ex tempore, his speech was
so perfect and so pure that one could easily believe that one heard a Roman rather than a German.
United with his powerful eloquence was the broadest erudition. He had investigated all the
mysteries of philosophy, and thoroughly mastered every branch of music. In his later years
he devoted his whole soul to the mastery of Hebrew and to the study of the Holy Scriptures.
He cared but little for glory."

REUCHLIN (1455-1522)

Reuchlin may properly be called the first great German humanist. He was educated at Freiburg,
Paris, and Basel, and gave especial attention to the classic studies, which had almost disappeared
from the university courses in Germany. He took his master's degree at Basel, and then began
to lecture on classical Latin and Greek. Being a born teacher, he drew about him a great number
of students, who became interested in classic studies. He made several visits to Italy, where
he imbibed the humanistic theories of the Italians, though he was already far advanced in those
theories before he went to Italy. In 1481 he was appointed professor at Tübingen, which thus
became the first German university to teach humanistic doctrines.

At Linz, where he had been sent on an embassy, he made the acquaintance of the emperor's Jewish
physician, with whom he began the study of Hebrew. This marks an important epoch in his history,
as he is best known for his Hebrew Grammar and Lexicon, published in 1506, and for his championship
of the Hebrew literature. Owing to the scarcity of classic text-books, Reuchlin was obliged
to mark out courses for his students, and, in a measure, to supply text-books for them. Much
of his work in the university had to be dictated, and students were obliged to copy their work
from manuscripts. He published a Latin lexicon and prepared the manuscript of a Greek grammar
which he never published, but from which doubtless he drew in his work with students.

In 1496 his friend Count Eberhard died, and Reuchlin's enemies succeeded in alienating the
new prince, so he was glad to avail himself of the opportunity to go to the university of Heidelberg.
Here he gave chief attention to Hebrew.

While in Heidelberg he became involved in an unfortunate controversy regarding Hebrew literature,
a controversy which was forced upon him. John Pfefferkorn, a converted Jew, zealous for the
conversion of his race, obtained an order from the emperor to confiscate and destroy all Hebrew
works which opposed the Christian faith. Reuchlin was appealed to as the highest authority
on Hebrew, and he urged that, instead of destroying the literature, two professors should be
appointed in each university to teach Hebrew and thereby refute the Jewish doctors by making
the students acquainted with the Bible. The struggle continued for years, and although the
Church and even the universities were against him, Reuchlin was finally victorious, thereby
saving a noble literature to the world. This was a great victory for humanism. A short time
before his death Reuchlin returned to Tübingen, where he closed his illustrious career in 1522.

Reuchlin was the first to introduce Greek into Germany, and the first to recognize the necessity
of a knowledge of Hebrew in interpreting the Holy Scriptures. He began a reform in the schools
which prepared the way for a like movement in the Church, and in Luther he saw the man who
was destined to carry both of these reforms to fulfillment. "God be praised," said he, "in
Luther they have found a man who will give them work enough to do, so that they can let me,
an old man, go to my rest in peace."

ERASMUS (1467-1536)

Erasmus was born at Rotterdam. Though not a German, he belonged to the Teutonic race. He has
well been called a "citizen of the world," as he lived in so many countries, and came to be
the most learned man of his time. He was left an orphan at an early age, and his guardians
placed him in a convent. They wished to make a monk of him so that they could inherit his patrimony,
but this plan was resisted by the boy for a long time. The life of the convent was very distasteful
to him, and though he afterward took vows, he never was in sympathy with asceticism. Possibly
the condition of the monasteries at that time may have had something to do with the repugnance
of Erasmus to the monastic life. He was certainly greatly relieved when the Pope absolved him
from his vows.

Erasmus was precocious as a child, and it was early predicted of him that he would be a great
man, a prediction which he fully verified. Through the influence and help of the Bishop of
Cambray, he was enabled to go to Paris for study, though the means furnished were not sufficient
for his support. He took pupils and gave lectures, thereby supplying the deficiency in his
funds. It is recorded that, in his eagerness for books, he said, "When I get money, I will
first buy Greek books, and then clothing." He also studied at Oxford, and afterward at Turin,
where he took the degree of Doctor of Divinity. Though many high offices in the Church, and
many positions in universities, were offered to him, he refused them all, preferring to be
an independent man of letters. Erasmus was recognized as the supreme literary authority of
the world, and this lofty position was the summit of his ambition. Nothing could turn him aside
from the path that led to that eminence, and, once attained, nothing could attract him away
from it.

Basel had become the center of the new printing industry. This led Erasmus to choose that city
as his home for the latter part of his life, and here he furthered the cause of humanism as
no other man had done, by editing and giving to the world many of the classic treasures of
the monasteries. He translated Greek works into Latin, thereby making them available to the
world, as Latin was better understood than Greek. His edition of the Greek Testament was his
most eminent service, though his "Colloquies" are better known. His "Praise of Folly" is a
satirical work, in which he holds up to ridicule the ignorance and vice of the monks.

Though he never broke away from the Church, without doubt his sympathies were with the reformers.
But neither the persuasions nor the denunciations of Luther could bring him to take a decided
stand on either side. He thought that the reform could be wrought within the Church. He accepted
the dogmas of the Church, and remained within it as long as he lived.

Erasmus was the exact counterpart of Luther. He appealed to the limited few, Luther to the
masses; he to the educated and higher classes, Luther to the ignorant and lowly; he was a man
of reflection, Luther a man of action. The apparent vacillation of Erasmus may have been due
to ill health, to the influence of the Pope, to the ties of the Church in which he had been
reared, to the satisfaction he found in his eminent literary position, and to his dislike for
controversy.

Erasmus gives us some very valuable pedagogical teachings, which may be summed up as follows:--

=Pedagogy of Erasmus.=--1. The mother is the natural educator of the child in its early years.
The mother who does not care for the education of her children is only half a mother.

2. Until the seventh year the child should have little to do but play, in order to develop
the body. It must have no earnest work, but must be taught politeness.

3. After the seventh year earnest work must begin. Latin and Greek (which should be studied
together) must be taught early so that right pronunciation and a good vocabulary may be attained.

4. The first subject to be learned is grammar. Language is necessary before a knowledge of
other things can be gained.

5. Teachers should be better trained and better paid, and suitable places must be furnished
for the schools.

6. The religious side of education must not be neglected.

7. Great attention must be paid to the cultivation of the memory: (a) by a proper understanding
of the subject; (b) by logical order in thinking; (c) by comparison.

8. As the bee collects honey from many flowers, so knowledge is gathered from many sources.

9. The foundation of all training of children must be laid in the home. Parents should know
what their children ought to be taught. Above all things children must be taught to obey.

10. The first care with girls is to inculcate in them religious feelings; the second to protect
them from contamination; the third, to guard them from idleness.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE REFORMATION AS AN EDUCATIONAL INFLUENCE

=Literature.=--White, Eighteen Christian Centuries; Taylor, History of Germany; Draper, Intellectual
Development of Europe; Guizot, History of Civilization; Lord, Beacon Lights; Seebohm, The Protestant
Revolution; Gasquet, Eve of the Reformation; Spaulding, History of the Reformation; Bryce,
The Holy Roman Empire; Morris, Era of the Protestant Revolution; Hurst, History of the Reformation;
Lewis, History of Germany; Myers, Mediaeval and Modern History; Schiller, The Thirty Years'
War; Hallam, Literary History; Kiddle and Schem, Cyclopaedia of Education; Dyer, Modern Europe;
D'Aubigné, History of the Reformation; Yonge, Three Centuries of Modern History; Mombert, Great
Lives; Schwickerath, Jesuit Education.

=Historical Conditions.=--At the beginning of the sixteenth century we find the stage of political,
religious, and educational activity transferred from the shores of the Mediterranean to the
north of the Alps. We have seen the great work of civilization taken from the Greek and Latin
races and committed to the Teutonic race. We have traced the humanistic movement from its birthplace
in Italy to Germany, where it found a more congenial atmosphere and a more suitable soil. The
world was ripe for a great revolution, which was destined to advance the interests of mankind
with gigantic strides.

The invention of printing by Gutenberg, in the middle of the fifteenth century, must be mentioned
as the primary material agency in forwarding this advance. It was said of this art that it
would "give the deathblow to the superstition of the Middle Ages." It multiplied readers a
hundredfold; it stimulated authorship; it revolutionized literature, because it made the preservation
and dissemination of thought easy; it was a mighty influence in bringing about universal education,
a principle for which the Reformation stood.

Another event of great importance was the discovery of America, which stimulated various European
enterprises. Thus, at the beginning of the sixteenth century, the world awakened from its long
sleep, and educational enterprise was born anew.

The German Reformation had been preceded by similar movements in other lands. Huss and Jerome
of Prague, in Bohemia, Wyclif in England, Zwingli in Switzerland, the Waldenses in Italy, and
the Albigenses in France, had raised their voices in solemn protest against clerical abuses,[52]
and many of the reformers had paid for their temerity by martyrdom. But the German Reformation,
under the leadership of Martin Luther, was destined to exert a mighty influence throughout
northern Europe, and to set in motion impulses which were to shape all later history.

The chief rulers of Europe were Frederick the Wise of Saxony, known as Luther's friend, Henry
the Eighth of England, Francis the First of France, and Charles the Fifth, king of Spain, Naples,
Sicily, and Austria, and afterward emperor of Germany. Leo the Tenth was Pope, and he had great
influence in temporal affairs. Emperor Charles the Fifth was the most powerful ruler of this
period. Though a foreigner in manners, customs, and sympathy, and unacquainted with the German
tongue, he became emperor of Germany by bribing the electors who had a voice in selecting the
ruler of that nation. It is said that he paid $1,500,000 to these corrupt electors, besides
making many promises of future favors. He was treacherous, and never hesitated to break the
most solemn pledges when his interests so demanded. Bayard Taylor says of him, "His election
was a crime, from the effects of which Germany did not recover for three hundred years."

=Intellectual Conditions=.--These, then, were the external conditions which existed at the
beginning of the sixteenth century. We have seen that the need of reformation was acknowledged
on all sides. There were but few good teachers to be found, even in the Church which had so
long been the mother of schools. Education was at such a low ebb, and the advantages offered
by the schools were so poor, and of such a doubtful character, that but few persons cared to
avail themselves of their privileges. Even the universities failed to educate. Luther says,
"Is it not pitiable that a boy has been obliged to study twenty years or longer to learn enough
bad Latin to become a priest, and read mass?" Again he says, "Such teachers and masters we
have been obliged to have everywhere, who have known nothing themselves, and have been able
to teach nothing good or useful."

There was need, then, of reform in education as well as in religion, and Luther took the burden
of both upon his shoulders. As an educational reformer, he has earned for himself the world's
gratitude. It must be admitted that Luther's main purpose was the reformation of the Church,
and that his educational work merely grew out of the need of general intelligence as a necessary
adjunct to that work. Of the existing conditions, Compayré well says, "With La Salle and the
foundation of the Institute of the Brethren of the Christian Schools, the historian of education
recognizes the Catholic origin of primary instruction; in the decrees and laws of the French
Revolution, its lay and philosophical origin; but it is to the Protestant Reformation,--to
Luther in the sixteenth century, and to Comenius in the seventeenth,--that must be ascribed
the honor of having first organized schools for the people. In its origin, the primary school
is the child of Protestantism, and its cradle was the Reformation."[53]

LUTHER (1483-1546)

Martin Luther was born at Eisleben, Germany, of poor and humble parents. He was brought up
under the rigid discipline of the typical German home, in which the rod was not spared. Upon
this point he writes, "My parents' severity made me timid; their sternness and the strict life
they led me made me afterward go into a monastery and become a monk. They meant well, but they
did not understand the art of adjusting their punishments."

When he was fourteen years of age, his parents, then in better circumstances, sent him to Magdeburg
to prepare for the university. But the expense being too great, he was withdrawn from this
school and sent to Eisenach, where he could live with relatives. Here he sang in the street
for alms, and his sweet voice attracted the attention of Ursula Cotta, a wealthy lady, who
took him to her own home and gave him an excellent teacher.

When eighteen years of age he entered the university of Erfurt, then a center of humanistic
learning. He made marvelous progress in his studies until he took his degree. His father had
intended him for the law, but Luther determined to devote himself to the Church, much to his
father's disappointment. Accordingly he became an Augustinian monk when twenty-two years of
age. Unlike many of his brethren, he kept up his studies while in the monastery, and was called
to a professorship in the new university at Wittenberg in 1508, where he found an ample field
for his remarkable powers. Two years later, he went as a delegate to the papal court at Rome,
where his eyes were opened to the condition of the Church in her holiest sanctuaries. Returning
to Wittenberg, he continued his studies and his lectures, and drew about him a great number
of students. His lectures and his writings against the practices of the Church became so pronounced
that he was summoned before the Diet of Worms and commanded to retract. This he refused to
do in the memorable words: "Here I stand; I cannot do otherwise. God help me! Amen." On his
return from Worms, fearing for his safety, his friends took him prisoner and confined him in
the Wartburg castle at Eisenach. During the nine months of his confinement he translated the
Bible into German.[54] Luther took great pains to make the language so pure and plain that
it could be understood by the common people, to whom he appealed. He was never ashamed of his
humble origin. When he came to be the honored friend and trusted adviser of princes and kings,
he was wont to say, "I am a peasant's son; my father, grandfather, and remote ancestors were
nothing but veritable peasants."

The language of Luther's translation of the Bible became the standard German, which was to
supplant the many dialects.

His great watchword was, "Make the people acquainted with the Word of God." But the Bible was
of little use to the masses so long as they could not read. Luther therefore set himself sturdily
to the improvement of the schools, which were in a deplorable condition. He urged the principle
of parental responsibility for the education of children. "Believe me," said he, "it is far
more important that you exercise care in training your children than that you seek indulgences,
say many prayers, go much to church, or make many vows." His pedagogy constitutes the foundation
of the German common school system of to-day. Luther, then, must be remembered as the greatest
educator of his time for two reasons.

1. He gave the German people a language by his translation of the Holy Scriptures.

2. He laid the foundation of the German common school system.

=Luther's Pedagogy.=--1. Parents are responsible for the education of their children.

2. It is the duty of the State to require regular attendance at school of every child, and
the parents must be held accountable for non-attendance.

3. Religion is the foundation of all school instruction.

4. Every child must learn not only the ordinary subjects taught at school, but also the practical
duties of life,--boys, a trade; girls, housework.

5. Every clergyman must have pedagogical training and experience in teaching before entering
upon a pastorate.[55]

6. The teacher must be trained, and in that training singing is included.

7. Children must be taught according to nature's laws,--the knowledge of the thing must precede
its name.

8. Due respect should be shown to the office of teacher, and by example and precept every teacher
should be worthy of respect.

9. His course of study included Latin and Greek, history, mathematics, singing, and physical
training, besides religion.

10. Every school should have a library.

11. It is the inherent right of every child to be educated, and the State must provide the
means to that end.

The principles above stated are fundamental in the German school systems of the present time.
Religious instruction, trained teachers, compulsory and universal education, are the central
principles of the schools of Germany and of many other nations. Luther could not give his chief
attention to education, but with deep insight he saw the necessity of it, and laid the foundations
upon which later generations have built a marvelous structure, true to the design of its architect.

MELANCHTHON (1497-1560)

Philipp Melanchthon was the friend, colaborer, and adviser of Luther. Luther was a resolute,
energetic, impulsive man; Melanchthon was quiet, reserved, and conciliating. There is no doubt
that these two men of such opposite dispositions exerted a salutary influence upon each other,--Luther
stimulated and encouraged Melanchthon; Melanchthon checked and restrained Luther. It is certain
that each was helpful to the other, and that the great cause of the Reformation, to which they
mutually consecrated themselves, was furthered by their friendship and union.

Melanchthon had excellent training as a boy, and early showed signs of unusual ability. At
fifteen he took his bachelor's degree at Heidelberg University, and when only eighteen years
of age Erasmus said of him, "What hopes may we not conceive of Philipp Melanchthon, though
as yet very young, almost a boy, but equally to be admired for his proficiency in both languages!
What quickness of invention! What purity of diction! What vastness of memory! What variety
of reading! What modesty and gracefulness of behavior! And what a princely mind!"

After completing his course at Heidelberg, he went to Tübingen, where his studies were directed
by Reuchlin, who was his kinsman. He gave public lectures at Tübingen on rhetoric and on various
classic authors, attracting worldwide attention. In 1518 he was called to the Greek professorship
at Wittenberg, where he made the acquaintance of Luther. Bishop Hurst says, "The life of Melanchthon
was now so thoroughly identified with that of Luther that it is difficult to separate the two.
They lived in the same town of Wittenberg. They were in constant consultation, each doing what
he was most able to do, and both working with unwearied zeal for the triumph of the cause to
which they gave their life."

His success at Wittenberg was assured from the first. Though youthful in appearance, being
but twenty-one years of age, his pure logic, his profound knowledge of philosophy, his familiarity
with the Scriptures, his perfect mastery of the classic languages, his fine diction, and his
broad knowledge awoke enthusiasm at once. Wittenberg, possessing two such great men as Luther
and Melanchthon, became the center of humanistic studies, not less than two thousand students
being attracted to its university. Melanchthon was an inspiring teacher; among his pupils were
men who afterward became leaders of thought in Germany, and who did much to shape the destiny
of Europe.

Perhaps Melanchthon's greatest service to the schools was his publication of text-books, which
were very much needed. He wrote a Greek grammar for boys when himself but a boy of sixteen.
Grammar he defined as "the science of speaking and writing correctly," a definition that has
been scarcely improved upon. Ten years later his Latin grammar was published, after being tested
for some years in his classes. For more than one hundred years this was the principal Latin
grammar in use, and there were not less than fifty-one editions of it.

He wrote also text-books on logic, rhetoric, and ethics. It will be seen that the trivium--grammar,
rhetoric, logic--furnished the foundation of his literary activity, so far as the schools are
concerned. He was active also in authorship of theological works, producing the first theological
work of the Protestant Church, the "Loci Communes," which Luther placed next to the Bible for
theological study.

The interest of Melanchthon for education made him the chief adviser and leader among the school
men. His advice was constantly sought in the educational movements of Germany. After visiting
the schools of Saxony, he drew up the "Saxony School Plan," which furnished the basis of various
similar organizations throughout Germany. There were three fundamental principles in this system.

1. There must not be too many studies in the schools, and Latin should be the only language taught.

2. There must not be too many books used.

3. The children should be divided into at least three classes, or grades.

In the first grade, reading, writing, the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, prayers and hymns, and
some Latin should be taught. In the second, the Latin grammar, Latin authors, and religion.
In the third, completion of the grammar, difficult Latin authors, rhetoric, and logic. Williams
calls this "Melanchthon's somewhat artless ideas of a proper school system," which he excuses
as being "marked possibly by the crudity of a first effort at organization, but more probably
controlled in form by the fewness of teachers in the schools of his time."

Melanchthon is also known as the first Protestant psychologist.

To sum up the educational work of Melanchthon, we find that he was a "born teacher," attracting
and inspiring thousands of young men whom he instructed; that he was the author of many text-books
for the schools, and of theological works; that he was an educational authority; that he outlined
a complete school system; and that he was the adviser and friend of Luther in the work of the
Reformation.

FOOTNOTES:

[52] See Brother Azarias, "Philosophy of Literature," pp. 122-124.

[53] "History of Pedagogy," p. 112.

Karl Schmidt, in speaking of the spirit of the Reformation, says, "These ideas form the basis
of the common school, which up to this time had been sporadically established only in isolated
places." "Geschichte der Pädagogik," Vol. III, p. 16.

[54] In 1877, Mr. H. Stevens published at South Kensington, a "List of Bibles in the Caxton
Exhibition." He says: "Not only are there many editions of the Latin Vulgate long anterior
to that time (1507 A.D.), but there were actually nine German editions of the Bible in the
Caxton exhibition earlier than 1483, the year of Luther's birth, and at least three more before
the end of the century." The general use of the printing press about this time made popular
translations opportune, as it placed the Bible within the reach of all. It thus became a powerful
instrument for universal education.

[55] This was because the pastor had an oversight of the school, a practice still very common
in Germany.

CHAPTER XXIX

OTHER PROTESTANT EDUCATORS

The educational work of Luther and Melanchthon bore remarkable fruit. Luther had urged parents
to see to it that their children should be educated, and had appealed to magistrates to assist
the Church in maintaining schools. He insisted upon compulsory education in the memorable words,
"The authorities are bound to compel their subjects to send their children to school." As a
result schools were organized in Nuremberg, Frankfort, Ilfeld, Strasburg, Hamburg, Bremen,
Dantzic, and many other places. Eton, Rugby, Harrow, and other educational institutions were
founded about this time in England.

Melanchthon's course of study (Schulplan) for Saxony had appeared in 1528, and in 1558 the
school law of Würtemberg, by far the best yet enacted, went into force. Other German provinces
adopted more or less efficient school systems, and for the first time in the history of Christian
education, the duty of the State to assume the responsibility of the education of its subjects
was recognized. Out of these primitive systems have grown the completer systems of the present,
after more than three centuries of experiment, study, and struggle.

The Reformation taught the right of every person to an education, primarily, it is true, for
religious ends, and it gradually came to be understood that the State must assume that duty.
For the Church had neither the means nor the power to accomplish universal education. But it
was not till the nineteenth century that this end was reached, whereby the advantages of education
were offered to the child of every parent of whatever rank or station, and the State assumed
full control of the schools.

This was the great work marked out by Luther and Melanchthon, and their pupils and disciples
carried that work to its fulfillment. Among these immediate followers we may mention Sturm,[56]
Trotzendorf, and Neander, who contributed to educational reform.

STURM[57] (1507-1589)

Johann Sturm is counted among the greatest schoolmen that the Reformation produced, though
he belonged to the French rather than the German reformers. He received an excellent training
in the schools of Germany, and completed his education at Paris, where he afterward became
professor of Greek. He soon gained such a wide reputation that when only thirty years of age
he was called to the rectorship of the Gymnasium at Strasburg, a position which he held for
forty-seven years, and where he gained lasting fame. This fame rests not on his work as a teacher,
but as an organizer and an executive. Paulsen doubts his having been a great teacher. He says,
"He was a man who gave his attention to great things. He had his hands in universal politics;
he was in the service of nearly all the European potentates, drawing his yearly salary from
all.... It is not probable that such a wonderful man was also a good schoolmaster."[58]

But his great work was the organization of the Strasburg Gymnasium, especially its course of
study, which became the model for the Latin schools for many years. Sturm's counsel was sought
by schoolmen all over Europe, and he came to be the recognized leader of educational forces.
His school course took the boy at six years of age and provided at first a nine years', afterward
a ten years' course, ending at the sixteenth year of age. He added a five years' course to
this later, and evidently planned to found a university.[59]

Sturm believed that the mother should have charge of the child for the first six years of its
life. In his ten years' course he required ten years of Latin, six of Greek, besides rhetoric,
logic, religion, and music. He introduced the practice of translating Latin into German and
then translating it back into Latin.[60] His course took no account of German, history, mathematics,
or science. He thus sought to reinstate Greece and Rome, but entirely neglected those things
which prepare for life. Williams says, "With regard to Sturm's plan of organization, it should
be borne in mind that it is the very earliest scheme that we have, looking to an extended,
systematic, well-articulated course of studies for a school of several teachers, in which is
assigned to each class such portion of the subject-matter of the course of instruction as is
suited to the age and stage of advancement of its pupils."[61]

This course of study attracted the attention of all Europe. Karl Schmidt says that in 1578
"his school numbered several thousand students, among whom were two hundred of noble birth,
twenty-four counts and barons, and three princes--from Portugal, Poland, Denmark, England, etc."

Paulsen, while not belittling the work of Sturm, thinks that the celebrated course has but
little in it different from the courses of the Wittenberg reformers. He says, "If Melanchthon
had had the planning of a school course for a large city, it would have been much the same
(as Sturm's). The Saxon school plan of 1528 was effective only in small cities and country
places. The basis of both (Melanchthon's and Sturm's) is the same,--grammar, rhetoric, dialectics,
with music and religion. In the large schools, like those of Nuremberg and Hamburg, a beginning
of Greek and mathematics was added."[62]

Sturm's course has the merit of definiteness, thoroughness, and unity. There seems to be some
doubt as to his success in carrying it out. It is certain that but few students completed his
course compared with the number who began it. Instead of sixty to seventy pupils in the last
class, there were only nine or ten. The influence of Sturm, however, spread not only over Germany,
but also reached to many other countries, and his Strasburg course of study shaped the work
in the classical schools for many years.

TROTZENDORF (1490-1556)

Valentine Trotzendorf was born in poverty and beset by many difficulties in boyhood. His mother
was a constant inspiration to him, and when he was disposed to give up the struggle, her words,
"My son, stick to your school," led him to continue until he overcame the obstacles. When ready
for the university he went to Leipsic, where he studied Greek and Latin for two years. In 1515
he became a teacher in a village near Leipsic, a position that he retained for three years.
He then went to Wittenberg, where he studied under Melanchthon for five years, and became very
intimate with that great teacher. His fame as a teacher was made at Goldberg, where he was
thirty-five years rector of a school. Like Melanchthon, he believed that the fear of the Lord
is the beginning of wisdom, and that the school is an adjunct of the Church. With Sturm, he
laid great stress upon the classic languages, and insisted that his pupils should speak in
the Latin tongue. As a teacher he possessed remarkable power. He loved to mingle with his pupils,
converse with and question them, and he had great skill in drawing them out. In his instruction
he employed many illustrations, and proceeded from the concrete to the abstract.

His discipline was unique and original. He introduced a practice before unknown, namely, that
of self-government on the part of the students, an experiment that has been tried in recent
years with excellent results in many American institutions for higher learning. Trotzendorf
established a senate of twelve students, a consul, and other officers, who were made responsible
for the government of the school. These constituted a court of which he was president. Offenders
were brought before the tribunal and tried with great formality and dignity. This body sentenced
the culprit to such punishment as his guilt merited, the master reserving to himself the right
of being a court of final appeal. Besides the officers above named, there were others who were
in charge of the boys in their domestic relations,--such as keeping guard over their punctuality,
table manners, diligence in study, etc. It was considered a high honor to hold one of these
offices. The scheme worked well under Trotzendorf; it taught self-government, and inculcated
the spirit of freedom as well as an intelligent submission to law. Trotzendorf thus gives an
example of school government which is quite in accord with the spirit of modern times. He also
had his best pupils instruct the lower classes under his supervision, and thus prepared them
to go forth as teachers. Teachers from his school were sought for by intelligent patrons of
education in all parts of Europe.

NEANDER (1525-1595)

Michael Neander was another of Melanchthon's pupils who became great as a teacher. Neander
was for forty-five years the sole teacher of a Latin school at Ilfeld. Though he never had
many pupils, his school was pronounced by Melanchthon as "the best seminary in the country."
He was a most successful teacher, and the students whom he sent to the university were found
to possess the very best preparation, and always stood among the first. He was well versed
in medicine and chemistry, and was one of the best Greek and Latin scholars of his time. Contrary
to the practice of his contemporaries, he favored the teaching of geography, history, and the
natural sciences. His position in regard to the sciences places him in advance of other educators,
and in this he was a follower of Melanchthon, who also believed that science should be taught.

Neander is celebrated also for the Greek and Latin text-books which he wrote. Speaking of these
books, Paulsen says, "What he especially emphasized is: as few and as short rules as possible,
and these rules are to be progressive; at the proper time they are to be committed to memory.
The pupil must also commit words, phrases, and sentences to memory, which is equally important."
Lastly, he gave a careful outline of the work of a boy for every year from the sixth to the
eighteenth. This was especially valuable for that period when parents and teachers alike had
nothing to guide them except the monastic course of study, and when the world was giving birth
to new theories in education as well as in religion.

Neander's whole life was concentrated on the work of teaching, and in the schoolroom he found
his greatest joy. Here, also, he made a lasting impression upon his pupils and upon mankind.
His father was mistaken when he addressed the boy, "Into a cloister with you; you will amount
to nothing in the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

Other great teachers in the schools and in the universities carried forward the educational
work begun by the great reformers. Many cities had founded schools, and several of the German
states had established school systems. The educational ideas of the Protestant Reformation
had taken deep root, and were destined to spread over the whole world, gaining in force with
each succeeding century.

The practical outcome of this great movement was the establishment of schools in every village
in Germany under the direction of the pastor, and where he was unable to teach, under his clerk
or assistant. As the chief purpose was to prepare the children for entrance to the church by
confirmation, religion was the center of the school course. But reading, writing, arithmetic,
and singing were also taught.

The clerk of the church gradually became the schoolmaster, and while the relations of these
two offices have materially changed, there is still a close official connection between the
two, particularly in the country. In many cases the pastor is the local superintendent of the
school, and the teacher is the clerk and chorister of the church. As fast as Lutheran churches
were organized, schools were also established in connection with them. Nor were boys alone
included in the work of education. Girls' schools were organized and an effort was made at
universal education. Many provinces adopted advanced school laws, and the principle of compulsory
education was recognized, though by no means successfully carried out.

Thus was born in the middle of the sixteenth century the common school, and thus was recognized
the right of all men to an education, and a practical illustration of the means of securing
it was given to the world.

FOOTNOTES:

[56] Though Sturm was not a Lutheran, he was a Protestant, being a follower of Calvin.

[57] See Quick, "Educational Reformers," and Williams, "History of Modern Education," p. 88.

[58] "Geschichte des Gelehrten Unterrichts."

[59] Sturm's school course appeared in 1538. It was not the oldest school course of the Protestants.
The oldest school course for a German school was prepared by Johannes Agricola and Hermann
Talich in 1525 for the school at Eisleben, Luther's birthplace. Indeed, Paulsen thinks that
Melanchthon had a hand in its preparation. He says ("Geschichte des Gelehrten Unterrichts,"
p. 182), "This is the oldest published school course of the Reformed Church, which, if not
composed by Melanchthon, was without doubt outlined, or at least approved, by him." This was
discovered in 1865 by F. L. Hoffmann in the Hamburg city library.

[60] See Ascham, p. 191, and Ratke, p. 210.

[61] "History of Modern Education," p. 91.

[62] "Geschichte des Gelehrten Unterrichts," p. 197.

CHAPTER XXX

THE JESUITS AND THEIR EDUCATION

=Literature.=--Draper, Intellectual Development of Europe; Durrell, A New Life in Education;
Dyer, Modern Europe; Fisher, History of the Reformation; Guizot, History of Civilization; Ferris,
Great Leaders; Lord, Beacon Lights; Parkman, The Jesuits in North America; White, Eighteen
Christian Centuries; Quick, Educational Reformers; Symonds, Renaissance in Italy; Hughes, Loyola;
Larned, History for Ready Reference; Schwickerath, Jesuit Education; Châteaubriand, The Genius
of Christianity.

=The Order.=--The remarkable spread of Protestantism, however, was not to go on unchallenged.
Already before the rupture of the Church, the need of a better-educated clergy had been acknowledged.
We have seen that Luther and the Reformers laid great stress upon the education of the young
as a means of propagating the new faith, and they had employed this means with great success.
It is not to be gathered from this that the Roman Church had been unmindful of her duty in
the training of the young. It has already been shown that the Church maintained education from
the beginning of the Christian era down through the Middle Ages, that she never slackened in
her zeal for this work, and that she held it to be her right and duty, as she does to this
day, to train the young. At this very time she was maintaining many schools. But the "Order
of Jesus" was destined to systematize education in such a degree as the Church had never witnessed.

It has been claimed that the founding of the "Society of Jesus" was a "Counter-Reformation,"
the purpose of which was to check the growth of Protestantism. Whatever may have been the effect
of its work in this direction, it seems clear that such was not the purpose for which it was
organized. Schwickerath shows that it is doubtful if the founder of the Jesuit order had ever
heard the name of the German Reformer. He says,[63] "The Papal Letters and the Constitutions
assign as the special object of the Society: 'The progress of souls in a good life and knowledge
of religion; the propagation of faith by public preaching, the Spiritual Exercises and works
of charity, and particularly the instruction of youth and ignorant persons in the Christian
religion.'" It cannot be denied, whatever the original purpose of the Society, that it not
only checked the onward march of Protestantism, but it even restored many provinces and communities
to their fealty to the Mother Church. How well the last clause of the admonition above quoted
was carried out will be seen when we remember that the Jesuits originated the most successful
educational system of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, a system having
a definite end in view, and whose adherents by indomitable energy, by self-sacrifice, by oneness
of purpose, secured remarkable success. Let us turn our attention to the founding of the "Order."

=Loyola= (1491-1556), the originator of the order, was a Spanish nobleman. While recovering
from a severe wound received in battle, he read some religious books which made such a profound
impression upon him that he resolved to consecrate himself to religious work. Not being an
educated man, he devoted some years to study, and while at the university of Paris he gathered
around him other young men who also were ready to consecrate themselves to the service of God.
They formed themselves into the "Order of Jesus," with the avowed purpose at first of rescuing
Jerusalem from the hands of the infidels. This was not to be done by force of arms, as in case
of the crusaders, but by peaceful means. This purpose was abandoned, but the zealous missionary
spirit of the Jesuits endured. In 1540 Pope Paul III. recognized the new order and gave it
the sanction of the Church. The organization was military in character, Loyola becoming its
first general.

=The Growth of the Society= was remarkable from the outset. In 1600 it had 200 schools; in
1710, 612 colleges, 157 boarding or normal schools, 59 houses for novitiates, 340 residences,
200 missions, and 24 universities. The college at Clermont had, in 1651, 2000 students, and
in 1675, 3000 students. These institutions controlled the education of the Catholic Church
in all Europe, and many Protestant young men also were attracted to the Jesuit schools by their
superior teachers and their thorough training.

The society became so strong that various attempts were made to check its power. It spread,
however, to China and Hindustan, to the Indian tribes of North America, and to South America.
Its spirit and its practices aroused the suspicion of princes and people, of many Catholics
as well as Protestants. In 1773 the Jesuits were in possession of 41 provinces, and had 22,589
members, of whom 11,295 were priests. Since that time popes have suppressed them, rulers have
expelled them from their countries, their property and power have been taken from them, until
their influence has been greatly lessened and their progress checked.

=Jesuit Education.=--Unlike the monastics, the Jesuits mingled with the world; they assumed
no peculiarities of dress, and held themselves ready to act as missionaries to the most remote
parts of the world, as agents of the Church to which they so fully consecrated themselves,
and as teachers of youth. They established schools everywhere, and placed them in charge of
teachers of remarkable skill and pedagogical training.[64] We have seen that their efforts
were chiefly directed to higher education, their schools being designed for boys not less than
fourteen years of age. In general, primary education did not enter into their scheme. Schwickerath
thinks that the "Jesuits could not undertake elementary education" because "they had never
men enough to supply the demands for higher education."[65] This shows that they held higher
education as of the greater importance, and the same author further adds: "Besides, the whole
intellectual training of the Jesuits fitted them better for the higher branches." They reached
sons of princes, noblemen, and others who constituted the influential classes,[66] but "the
Constitutions expressly laid down that poverty and mean extraction were never to be any hindrance
to a pupil's admission."[67] Instruction was free.

Their schools became the most efficient and the most popular means of education furnished throughout
Europe,--and justly so, for their work was thorough, their teachers were competent and well
trained, and their course of study comprehensive. It is worthy of especial note that all teachers
of the Jesuit schools were carefully trained before they were allowed to give instruction.
This is the first time in history that the necessity of special preparation for the work of
teaching was recognized as an essential element in the work of education.

Every Jesuit school was divided into two departments, the lower, studia inferiora, consisting
of five classes, and the higher, studia superiora, requiring two or three years. Boys were
admitted to the lower course at the age of fourteen, and the work consisted chiefly of the
study of the humanities, while that of the advanced course embraced philosophy and theology.[68]
With reference to these courses of study, Quick says, "The Jesuit system stands out in the
history of education as a remarkable instance of a school system elaborately thought out and
worked as a whole." Again, he says of the Ratio Studiorum:[69] "It points out a perfectly attainable
goal, and carefully defines the road by which that goal is to be approached. For each class
was prescribed not only the work to be done, but also the end to be kept in view." Surely these
are most commendable features of any course of study. The work was remarkably thorough in every
detail.

After the society had been in existence some forty years, Claudius Aquaviva became its General
Superior. He at once began the study of the educational problem, using all the resources of
his office in obtaining information, and employing his executive ability in producing an improved
method of study. A committee of twelve most eminent churchmen was appointed in 1581 to study
the question, and three years later a commission of six, representing different countries,
began the labor of preparing a course of study. Their work, called the Ratio Studiorum,[70]
completed in 1599, has remained, with some modifications, the guide of Jesuit institutions
of learning.

=Emulation=.--Emulation was employed to stimulate pupils to work and to secure good conduct.
Prizes, decorations, rewards, titles, were offered as a means of attaining desired ends. Emulation
is a natural instinct in mankind, and it may be utilized to stimulate endeavor and "foster
ambition." The principle ever to be kept in mind should be excellency without degrading others.
Schwickerath thinks that such was the spirit in which the Jesuits employed this incentive.[71]
He admits, however, that there are dangers connected with prizes, and, on the whole, that certain
methods of fostering emulation recommended by the Ratio Studiorum are less suitable to northern
countries and less in accordance with modern taste.

While corporal punishment was allowed, it was generally administered by an official disciplinarian.
It was seldom used, however, the discipline being mild and humane.

=Criticism of Jesuit Education.=--As to the efficiency of the instruction in the Jesuit schools,
opinions widely differ. Bacon and Descartes indorse it in highest terms, while Leibnitz, Voltaire,
and others are equally strong in its condemnation. Bacon remarks, "As to whatever relates to
the instruction of the young, we must consult the schools of the Jesuits, for there can be
nothing that is better done." Leibnitz, on the other hand, says, "In the matter of education,
the Jesuits have remained below mediocrity." Ranke, in speaking of the success of the Jesuit
schools, says, "It was found that young persons learned more under them in half a year than
with others in two years."

Mr. Quick says: "I have said that the object which the Jesuits proposed in their teaching was
not the highest object. They did not aim at developing all the faculties of their pupils, but
merely the receptive and reproductive faculties. When the young man had acquired a thorough
mastery of the Latin language for all purposes, when he was well versed in the theological
and philosophical opinions of his preceptors, when he was skillful in dispute, and could make
a brilliant display from the resources of a well-stored memory, he had reached the highest
point to which the Jesuits sought to lead him."[72] Some critics of the Jesuits claim that
they lack in originality of thinking, and that they neglect training in the power of forming
correct judgments. They have produced, however, many great men.

=Summary.=--Summarizing the educational work of the Jesuits, the following would appear to
us to be just:--

1. Their educational system was by far the most efficient and successful of any during the
sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries.

2. This, however, applies only to higher education, as primary education was not undertaken
by them.

3. They made their schools interesting, and learning pleasant. Their work was thorough, their
consecration complete, their success as teachers marvelous, they being the greatest schoolmasters
of their time.

4. They produced a course of study, the Ratio Studiorum, which lays principal stress upon the
humanities and religious instruction.

5. They taught the necessity of trained teachers, and developed a remarkable power and tact
in the work of instruction and school management.

6. They made use of emulation as a means of stimulating ambition,--a principle that tends to
arouse the baser motives, and which is therefore to be used guardedly.

7. They were indefatigable in missionary enterprise, and zealous in the propagation of their
principles, both religious and educational.

8. They stimulated authorship, advanced learning, and produced many great men.

9. They exerted a powerful influence upon the intellectual, social, and political movements
of their time.

THE PORT ROYALISTS

Opposed to the Jesuits was another body of Catholics, sometimes called Jansenists from the
organizer of the movement, and sometimes Port Royalists, because their chief school was at
Port Royal near Paris. Their purpose was to check the progress of the Jesuits, to promote greater
spirituality in the Church, and to revive the pure Catholicism of St. Augustine. Among their
great leaders may be mentioned Pascal, Nicole, and Launcelot. The purpose of the Jansenists
was very different from that of the Jesuits, and their methods were more modern. They gave
preference to modern languages, while the Jesuits gave chief attention to the classic tongues.
Their discipline, like that of the Jesuits, was humane, but firm.

Their greatest contribution to education is the phonic method of spelling. They also laid stress
upon the use of objects, the development of the sense perceptions, especially in early childhood.
One of their axioms was, "The intelligence of childhood always being very dependent on the
senses, we must, as far as possible, address our instruction to the senses, and cause it to
reach the mind, not only through hearing, but also through seeing." This appears to be the
first instance in which object teaching was taught as a principle, a principle which Bacon,
Comenius, Pestalozzi, and Froebel worked out, and which has been one of the most important
factors of modern educational progress.

FOOTNOTES:

[63] "Jesuit Education," p. 77.

[64] See Hughes, "Loyola," pp. 46, 113, 156, 282. Also Schwickerath, "Jesuit Education," p. 415.

[65] "Jesuit Education," p. 105. See also Hughes, "Loyola," pp. 4, 14, 43, 46, 68, 72, 82,
and 86 (lines 12-23).

[66] See Hughes, "Loyola," pp. 72, 151.

[67] "Educational Reformers" p. 26.

[68] K. Schmidt, Vol. III, p. 230.

[69] "Educational Reformers," p. 34.

[70] See Hughes, "Loyola," p. 141, for full description of this work and outline of the course.
Also Schwickerath, "Jesuit Education," p. 191.

[71] See Hughes, "Loyola," p. 511.

[72] "Educational Reformers," p. 35.

CHAPTER XXXI

OTHER EDUCATORS OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY

=Literature.=--H. M. Skinner, The Schoolmaster in Literature, The Schoolmaster in Comedy and
Satire; Gill, Systems of Education; Quick, Educational Reformers; Williams, History of Modern
Education; Besant, Rabelais; Monroe, Educational Ideal; Collins, Montaigne; Emerson, Representative
Men; Vogel, Geschichte der Pädagogik; Carlisle, Two Great Teachers (Ascham and Arnold); Azarias,
Essays Educational; Davidson, History of Education.

We have thus far discussed educators who were directly connected with the great Protestant
and Catholic movements. There were others who were more or less independent of these movements.
Among these we may mention Roger Ascham, Rabelais, and Montaigne.

ASCHAM (1515-1568)

Roger Ascham was the most celebrated English educator of the sixteenth century. He was educated
at Cambridge, and studied three years in Germany. He had a thorough knowledge of the classic
languages. For these reasons he was chosen tutor to Elizabeth, a position which he held for
two years. Upon her accession to the throne, Ascham came to read with her several hours a day,
and she retained her affection for her old teacher throughout his life.

His chief literary work is his "Scholemaster," which is the first educational classic in English.
Dr. Johnson says of this book, "It contains, perhaps, the best advice that ever was given for
the study of languages." This method was as follows, given in Ascham's words: "First, let him
teach the child, cheerfully and plainly, the cause and matter of the letter (Cicero's Epistles);
then, let him construe it into English so oft as the child may easily carry away the understanding
of it; lastly, parse it over perfectly. This done, then let the child by and by both construe
and parse it over again; so that it may appear that the child doubteth in nothing that his
master has taught him before.

"After this, the child must take a paper book, and sitting in some place where no man shall
prompt him, by himself let him translate into English his former lesson. Then showing it to
his master, let the master take from him his Latin book, and pausing an hour at the least,
then let the child translate his own English into Latin again in another paper book. When the
child bringeth it turned into Latin, the master must compare it with Tully's book, and lay
them both together, and where the child doth well, praise him, where amiss, point out why Tully's
use is better.

"Thus the child will easily acquire a knowledge of grammar, and also the ground of almost all
the rules that are so busily taught by the master, and so hardly learned by the scholar in
all common schools. The translation is the most common and most commendable of all other exercises
for youth; most common, for all your constructions in grammar schools be nothing else but translations;
but because they be not double translations (as I do require), they bring forth but simple
and single commodity; and because also they lack the daily use of writing, which is the only
thing that breedeth deep root, both in the wit for good understanding, and in the memory for
sure keeping of all that is learned; most commendable also, and that by the judgment of all
authors which entreat of these exercises."[73]

Ascham often refers to his illustrious pupil in claiming merit for his system. He says, "And
a better and nearer example herein may be our most noble Queen Elizabeth, who never took yet
Greek nor Latin grammar in her hand after the first declining of a noun and a verb; but only
by this double translating of Demosthenes and Isocrates daily, without missing, every forenoon,
and likewise some part of Tully every afternoon, for the space of a year or two, hath attained
to such a perfect understanding in both tongues, and to such a ready utterance of the Latin,
and that with such a judgment as there be few now in both universities, or elsewhere in England,
that be in both tongues comparable with her Majesty." Mr. Quick thinks that while Ascham may
have thus flattered his royal pupil, there is no doubt that she was an accomplished scholar.

We have seen that Sturm made some use of double translation, but Ascham is entitled to full
credit for the method, which he adopted from Pliny and perfected. Many teachers of language
since that time have employed this method with excellent results.

RABELAIS[74] (1483-1553)

Though there is some obscurity as to the exact date of the birth of Rabelais, it is generally
believed that he was born the same year as Luther, 1483. He was the son of a French innkeeper,
and, after completing a classical course, was consecrated to the priesthood. His great ability
and independent thinking, and his humanistic tendency brought reproof from his superiors, and
he was ordered to perform works of penance in his cell; but through the influence of powerful
friends he was freed and allowed to go over to the Benedictines, with whom, however, he did
not remain long. He became an independent preacher, and as such had many friends among the
reformers, chief among whom was Calvin. His intimacy with Calvin led the more radical reformers
to be suspicious of him, and not without reason. Walter Besant tells us that, "One hears he
is a buffoon--he is always mocking and always laughing. That is perfectly true. He laughs at
the pretensions of pope, cardinal, bishop, and priest; he laughs at monkery and monks; he mocks
at the perpetual iteration of litanies; he laughs at the ignorance and superstition which he
thinks are about to vanish before the new day of modern learning."[75] Nor was his sympathy
with the reformers any more marked. Besant further adds, "It was at that time all important
that, as in England, the scholars should range themselves on the Protestant side. Rabelais
refused to do this. More, he set an example which deterred other scholars, and kept them, in
sheer impatience, in the enemy's camp."[76]

The great literary work of Rabelais is embodied in a series of chronicles, the first of which
is called "Gargantua" and the second, "Pantagruel." It is believed that these were popular
names of giants in the Middle Ages. In these books we find Rabelais's pedagogy.[77] The giant
Gargantua attends a school in which scholastic methods are employed. The author skillfully
ridicules the methods, and shows the utter inefficiency of the instruction by contrasting the
result in Gargantua and Eudemon, a page of the king. Gargantua, a man of fifty-five, is introduced
to Eudemon, a boy of twelve. The former is awkward, bashful, and does not know what to say,
while the latter meets Gargantua cap in hand, with open countenance, ruddy lips, steady eyes,
and with modesty becoming a youth. In reply to the polite and intelligent conversation of the
lad, Gargantua "falls to crying like a cow, casting down his face, and hiding it with his cap."
Compayré says, "In these two pupils, so different in manner, Rabelais has personified two contrasted
methods of education: that which, by mechanical exercises of memory, enfeebles and dulls the
intelligence; and that which, with large grants of liberty, develops intelligences and frank
and open characters."

The deficiencies of the old education (the scholastic) being thus shown, Rabelais places his
pupil under Ponocrates, Eudemon's teacher, who has produced such practical results. He then
opens up his system of pedagogy in the plan pursued for the redemption of Gargantua.

=Realism in Education.=--Compayré's estimate of this pedagogy is as follows: "The pedagogy
of Rabelais is the first appearance of what may be called realism in instruction, in distinction
from the scholastic formalism. The author of 'Gargantua' turns the mind of the young man toward
objects truly worthy of occupying his attention. He catches a glimpse of the future reserved
to scientific education, and to the study of nature. He invites the mind, not to the labored
subtleties and complicated tricks which scholasticism had brought into fashion, but to manly
efforts, and to a wide unfolding of human nature."[78]

In comparing Rabelais with Lucretius, Walter Besant says, "Both, at an interval of fifteen
hundred years, anticipated the nineteenth century in its restless discontent of old beliefs,
its fearless questioning, its advocacy of scientific research."[79] Compayré thinks that Rabelais
is "certainly the first, in point of time, of that grand school of educators who place the
sciences in the first rank among the studies of human thought."[80] It would seem, then, that
the author of "Gargantua" is worthy of a most honorable place among educational writers. Rabelais
began a movement, which was destined to revolutionize educational methods.

The educational scheme of Rabelais embraced the study of letters, of nature, of science, of
morals and religion, of the physical well-being,--in short, of everything necessary, as Herbert
Spencer would say, to complete living.

MONTAIGNE[81] (1533-1592)

Of a very different character from Rabelais was Montaigne. Rabelais was radical and extravagant,
Montaigne conservative and discreet; Rabelais sought development of all the faculties alike,
Montaigne gave preference to the training of the judgment; Rabelais would thoroughly master
every branch of human knowledge, Montaigne was content to skim over the sciences. And yet,
Montaigne must be recognized as an important factor in education, not only for his own teachings,
but because undoubtedly Bacon, Locke, Rousseau, and other apostles of reform were greatly influenced
by him. Bacon furthered Montaigne's theories concerning the importance of science, and by his
inductive method rendered the world a far greater service than his great French contemporary.
Locke enlarged upon Montaigne's ideas of physical training. Rousseau accepted a vital doctrine
of Montaigne in the following words: "He (Émile) possesses a universal capacity, not in point
of actual knowledge, but in the faculty of acquiring it; an open, intelligent genius adapted
to everything, and, as Montaigne says, if not instructed, capable of receiving instruction."

Montaigne's father was a French nobleman, who fully appreciated the responsibility laid upon
him in the education of his son. Doubtless his training had much to do in shaping the pedagogy
of the illustrious son. It was wise, mild but firm, natural, and thorough. The tutors and servants
who surrounded him were allowed to speak only in Latin. That tongue thus became as familiar
as his native tongue. Indeed, it is said, that at the age of six he was so proficient in the
language of Cicero, that the best Latinists of the time feared to address him. Nor was his
knowledge confined to Latin alone. He was instructed in modern lore as well. At the age of
six he was placed in the college of Guienne, where he remained seven years. His experience
there, so contrary to that under which he had been brought up, led him to be utterly opposed
to corporal punishment. Of the methods of discipline employed in the school, he says, "The
discipline of most of our colleges has always displeased me. They are veritable jails in which
youth is held prisoner. The pupils are made vicious by being punished before they become so.
Pay a visit there when they are at their work; you will hear nothing but cries,--children under
execution, and masters drunk with fury. What a mode of creating in these tender and timid souls
an appetite for their lessons, to conduct them to their tasks with a furious countenance, rod
in hand!--it is an iniquitous and pernicious fashion. How much more becoming it would be to
see the classroom strewed with leaves and flowers than with blood-stained stumps of birch rods!
I would have painted up there scenes of joy and merriment, Flora and the Graces, as Speusippus
had his school of philosophy: where they are to gain profit, there let them find happiness
too. One ought to sweeten all food that is wholesome, and put bitter into what is dangerous."[82]

Here we find a strong plea for humane forms of punishment and a severe criticism of the prevailing
practice of flogging, a practice which did not cease until long after Montaigne's time. It
is an equally forcible plea for beautiful and pleasant schoolrooms, decorated with works of
art intended to awaken and cultivate the aesthetic sense of the children, while contributing
to their happiness. It has been left to the educators of the end of the nineteenth century
to take up and seriously act upon this suggestion made over three hundred years ago. "The purpose
of education," said Montaigne, "is the training, not of a grammarian, or a logician, but of
a complete gentleman." Education should be of a practical nature. The child must become familiar
with the things about him. He must learn his own language first and then that of his neighbors,
and languages should all be learned by conversation.

A decided weakness in his system is found in his ideas concerning women. He made no provision
for their education, and, indeed, expressed great contempt for their abilities of either mind
or heart.

Montaigne's chief literary work is his "Essays." Compayré pronounces Montaigne's pedagogy,
"a pedagogy of good sense," and further adds that he has "remained, after three centuries,
a sure guide in the matter of intellectual education."

Observation and experience were to be abundantly employed, and visits to other lands, together
with intercourse with intelligent men everywhere, were to "sharpen our wits by rubbing them
upon those of others."

To sum up, we may say that the pedagogy of Montaigne teaches the training and use of the senses;
the study of science; the learning of the mother tongue first by conversation, and then the
language of our neighbors with whom we come in contact; the abolition of corporal punishment,
and the beautifying of schoolrooms. This surely is no small contribution to education. His
definition of education is worthy of note. He says, "It is not the mind only, nor the body,
but the whole man that is to be educated."[83]

=Summary of Educational Progress during the Sixteenth Century.=--1. Humanism had reached its
climax and begun to decline. It stimulated invention and discovery; it revived classic literature
and put it in such form that it could be used; it emancipated the mind; it prepared the way
for later reforms; it produced great educators such as Petrarch, Erasmus, and Reuchlin.

2. The Reformation took up the educational work of humanism, and carried it forward. It instituted
primary education, the education of the masses, compulsory education and parental responsibility
therefor; it asserted the right and duty of the State to demand and secure universal education;
it elevated and gave dignity to the office of teacher; it formulated several school systems,
and laid the foundation of the present German school system. Among its great educators were
Luther, Melanchthon, Sturm, and Neander.

3. The Jesuits established a remarkable system of schools, noted for their thoroughness, for
their singleness of purpose, for their rapid growth, and for their trained teachers. They gave
little attention to primary education, but sought to reach the higher classes. Emulation was
the principal incentive employed.

4. Opposed to the Jesuit education was that of the Port Royalists. They appealed to the intelligence
of the children and cultivated the sense-perceptions. They invented the phonic method of spelling.

5. Sturm's celebrated course of study was introduced during this century at Strasburg.

6. The method of double translations in learning a language was taught by Ascham and Sturm.

7. In Rabelais we find the first appearance of realism, which bore rich fruit in later scientific
education.

8. Montaigne opposed the use of the rod, and taught that the schoolroom should be made attractive.
He also advocated the study of modern languages by conversation, and gave science an honorable
place in the curriculum.

It thus appears that the sixteenth century surpassed many previous eras in its contributions
to educational progress.

FOOTNOTES:

[73] H. M. Skinner, "The Schoolmaster in Literature," p. 20.

[74] For special reference see Besant's "Rabelais."

[75] "Rabelais," 192.

[76] Ibid., 193.

[77] "Schoolmaster in Comedy and Satire," 9-33.

[78] "History of Pedagogy," p. 91.

[79] "Rabelais," p. 187.

[80] "History of Pedagogy," p. 96.

[81] See Collins, "Montaigne."

[82] Collins, "Montaigne," p. 14.

[83] A good summary of Montaigne's educational ideas may be found in Collins's "Montaigne," p. 102.

CHAPTER XXXII

EDUCATION DURING THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

=Literature.=--Taylor, History of Germany; Guizot, History of Civilization; Schiller, The Thirty
Years' War; Dyer, Modern Europe; Lewis, History of Germany; Macaulay, History of England.

=Political and Historical Conditions.=--The seventeenth century was remarkable for the wars
for religious supremacy. The Reformation had challenged the authority of the Church, aroused
a questioning spirit, and instilled into men's minds a love for religious liberty. During the
latter half of the sixteenth century, Europe had swayed back and forth between Protestantism
and Catholicism, according as success in arms had favored one side or the other. The spirit
of Protestantism had taken possession more especially of the common people, who formed the
bone and sinew of the armies. Bitter animosities existed between the adherents of the papal
church and the reformers, which found expression in bloodshed, rapine, and destruction of property.

England was torn asunder by civil war, which resulted in the death of Charles I. and the establishment
of the Commonwealth under Cromwell,--the struggle between Cavalier and Roundhead, between established
church and Puritan, ending finally in the revolution of 1688. The country was in a religious
ferment during the greater part of this century, caused by a growing jealousy for the maintenance
of the principle of the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's own conscience.
Nor was the struggle less virulent or disastrous in continental Europe. The religious upheaval
of the previous century culminated in the terrible conflict known as the Thirty Years' War;
this lasted from 1618 till 1648, when the Peace of Westphalia secured religious liberty to
all men. Northern Germany, Austria, France, Holland, Denmark, and Sweden, as well as minor
countries, were involved in this great war.

Let Bayard Taylor paint the result of this fearful struggle. "Thirty years of war! The slaughters
of Rome's worst emperors, the persecution of the Christians under Nero and Diocletian, the
invasions of the Huns and Magyars, the long struggle of the Guelfs and Ghibellines, left no
such desolation behind them. At the beginning of the century, the population of the German
Empire was about 30,000,000; when the Peace of Westphalia was declared, it was scarcely more
than 12,000,000! Electoral Saxony, alone, lost 900,000 lives in two years.... The city of Berlin
contained but 300 citizens, the whole of the Palatinate of the Rhine but 200 farmers. In Hesse-Cassel,
17 cities, 47 castles, and 300 villages were entirely destroyed by fire; thousands of villages,
in all parts of the country, had but four or five families left out of hundreds, and landed
property sank to about one twentieth of its former value.... The horses, cattle, and sheep
were exterminated in many districts, the supplies of grain were at an end, even for sowing,
and large cultivated tracts had relapsed into a wilderness. Even orchards and vineyards had
been wantonly destroyed wherever armies had passed. So terrible was the ravage that, in a great
many localities, the same amount of population, cattle, acres of cultivated land, and general
prosperity was not restored until the year 1848, two centuries afterward!

"This statement of the losses of Germany, however, was but a small part of the suffering endured....
During the last ten or twelve years of the war, both Protestants and Catholics vied with each
other in deeds of barbarity; the soldiers were nothing but highway robbers, who maimed and
tortured the country people to make them give up their last remaining property.... In the year
1637, when Ferdinand II. died, the want was so great that men devoured each other, and even
hunted down human beings like deer or hares, in order to feed upon them. All branches of industry
had declined, commerce had almost entirely ceased, literature and the arts were suppressed,
and except the astronomical discoveries of Copernicus and Kepler, there was no contribution
to human knowledge. Even the modern High German language, which Luther had made the classic
tongue of the land, seemed to be on the point of perishing. Spaniards and Italians on the Catholic,
Swedes and French on the Protestant side, flooded the country with foreign words and expressions,
the use of which soon became an affectation with the nobility, who did their best to destroy
their native tongue.

"Politically, the change was no less disastrous. The ambition of the house of Hapsburg, it
is true, had brought its own punishment; the imperial dignity was secured to it, but henceforth
the head of the 'Holy Roman Empire' was not much more than a shadow.... As for the mass of
the people, their spirit was broken; for a time they gave up even the longing for the rights
which they had lost, and taught their children abject obedience in order that they might simply
live."[84]

=The Educational Situation.=--These political conditions had a marked influence upon education.
Schools were abandoned, colleges gave up their charters, and people were content to allow their
children to grow up in ignorance. Indeed, it was not to be expected that, in the midst of their
poverty and sorrow, parents should care for education. And yet, some most important and wise
school laws were enacted and put into force, which form the basis of the present German school
system, as well as the school systems of many other countries. In 1619 the Duke of Weimar decreed
that all children, girls as well as boys, should be kept in school for at least six years,--from
six to twelve. This is the first efficient compulsory education law on record intended for
all classes of children.

Besides Weimar, Würtemberg, Hesse-Darmstadt, Mecklenburg, Holstein, Hesse-Cassel, and other
provinces were active in school work. They organized schools, appointed teachers, and formulated
school regulations. In 1642, Duke Ernst of Gotha adopted a new school regulation which was
a century in advance of the time, and this action was taken when the Thirty Years' War was
at its height and in a territory sadly devastated by contending armies.

This law required every child to enter school at the beginning of his sixth year, and to remain
in school until he could read his mother tongue, had mastered Luther's catechism, and was well
grounded in arithmetic, writing, and church songs. A course of study was marked out, the schools
were graded, and methods of instruction were outlined. The greatest defect in the system was
the lack of competent teachers. Discharged soldiers, worthless students, and degraded craftsmen
who could read and write, and who possessed a little knowledge of music, continued for many
years to be employed as schoolmasters. But little progress could be made under these adverse
circumstances; and the only reason for encouragement was the fact that the duty of parents
to keep their children at school was everywhere recognized.

=The Innovators.=--We must here mention also the Innovators or Reformers, whose period of educational
activity falls chiefly within the seventeenth century. Among these appear the names of Francis
Bacon, Ratke, Milton, Comenius, Rollin, Fénelon, and Locke. These men started movements which
revolutionized education and laid the foundation of modern methods. The demands of the Reformers
are summed up by Quick as follows: "First, that the study of things should precede, or be united
with, the study of words; second, that knowledge should be communicated, where possible, by
appeal to the senses; third, that all linguistic study should begin with that of the mother
tongue; fourth, that Latin and Greek should be taught to such boys only as would be likely
to complete a learned education; fifth, that physical education should be attended to in all
classes of society for the sake of health, not simply with a view to gentlemanly accomplishments;
sixth, that a new method of teaching should be adopted, framed 'According to nature.'"[85]
In another chapter we shall study the life and work of some of these men.

FOOTNOTES:

[84] "History of Germany," p. 409.

[85] Quick, "Educational Reformers," p. 50.

CHAPTER XXXIII

EDUCATORS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

=Literature.=--Church, Bacon; Macaulay, Essays; Spofford, Library of Historical Characters;
Lord, Beacon Lights; Montagu, Life of Bacon; Barnard, English Pedagogy; Quick, Educational
Reformers; Williams, History of Modern Education; Laurie, Life and Works of Comenius; Comenius,
Orbis Pictus; Barnard, Journal of Education; Milton, Tractate on Education; Pattison, Milton;
Fowler, Locke; Leitch, Practical Educationists; Gill, Systems of Education; Schwegler, History
of Philosophy; Courtney, John Locke; Vogel, Geschichte der Pädagogik; Compayré, History of
Pedagogy; Fénelon, Education of Girls; Azarias, Philosophy of Literature; Monroe, Comenius.

BACON[86] (1561-1626)

But little is known of the early years of Francis Bacon, but it is probable that he was well
trained, as his father was a man of good education, and the boy was able to enter Cambridge
when only a little over twelve years of age. His father was for many years Lord Keeper of the
Seals, and this brought Francis in contact with court life, where his precocity made him a
favorite with the queen. He thus early acquired that taste for the court, by which he climbed
to the height of his ambition only to fall therefrom in ignominious defeat.

He remained at Cambridge only about three years. There seems to be but little proof of this;
and, if it be so, he laid it aside until near the close of his life, and devoted himself to
politics. After leaving Cambridge, he went abroad with the English ambassador at Paris, with
whom he served until the death of his father compelled his return to England. Unexpectedly
finding that his patrimony was gone, he began a career at the bar, and rose step by step, amid
many discouragements, until he reached the height of his ambition, the Lord High Chancellorship
of the realm. In reaching this position he resorted to many of the tricks of the politician,
and sacrificed his best friends to further his selfish interests.

This lack of principle and greed for office, together with the luxurious tastes which kept
Bacon constantly in debt, made him susceptible to corruption. Accordingly he accepted bribes;
and, when exposed, his degradation from the highest office under the crown was most complete
and humiliating. He was summoned before the bar of Parliament; and, finding the evidence against
him complete, he admitted his guilt and pleaded for clemency.

He was found guilty and condemned to imprisonment in the Tower during the pleasure of the king,
and to a fine of £40,000; he was forbidden ever to sit in Parliament or come within the verge
of the court, and was forever debarred from holding office. He never paid the fine, was released
from the Tower after two days, was permitted to visit the court, and was summoned to the meetings
of Parliament.[89] He never, however, took any part in public affairs. The king granted him
a pension upon which he lived the remainder of his days. Thus disappeared from public life
one of England's greatest statesmen, whose political career ended in disgrace. But during the
remaining six years of his life, he wrote his principal works, which made him famous for all
time, and which mark a new era in education as well as in the world's progress.

In 1620 his greatest work, the "Novum Organum," was published. In this appears his Inductive
Method, a great educational discovery, which has been of inestimable value to mankind. It revolutionized
science, and suggested the application of the forces of nature to the wants of man, thus opening
to man's enterprise an illimitable field for research. In the three centuries since Bacon's
discovery, science has made vast strides, and yet is only at the threshold of its possible
development. The watchwords of the inductive method--experiment, investigate, verify--have
led to the establishment of laboratories, to the founding of experimenting stations, and to
the study of Nature herself. As Macaulay puts it, "Two words form the key of the Baconian doctrine,
Utility and Progress." Again he says, "The philosophy of Plato began in words and ended in
words.... The philosophy of Bacon began in observation and ended in arts."[90]

Macaulay depreciates the work of Bacon, and shows that he was not the original inventor of
the inductive method, "which," he says with truth, "has been practiced ever since the beginning
of the world by every human being."[91] Nor was he the "first person who correctly analyzed
that method and explained its uses," as Aristotle had done so long before. But these facts
do not detract from the glory of Bacon any more than the discovery of America by the Norsemen
five hundred years before the time of Columbus detracts from his glory. The same process of
reasoning would take all credit from every philosopher that has ever lived, for with equal
truth it may be said that every mental process "has been practiced ever since the beginning
of the world by every human being."

Bacon's teachings resemble those of Montaigne, though Bacon's work was far more important and
complete than that of his French contemporary. His pedagogy may be summed up in these pregnant
words from his own pen: "A judicious blending and interchange between the easier and more difficult
branches of learning, adapted to the individual capabilities and to the future occupation of
pupils, will profit both the mental and bodily powers, and make instruction acceptable."

We find in Bacon, then, the beginning of a new era in education. It remained for Comenius,
Locke, Rousseau, Pestalozzi, and their compeers to apply to specific educational systems the
great truth contained in the inductive method; and to scientists and investigators of all kinds
has been intrusted the mission of furthering, through this method, the marvelous scientific
development which has almost re-created the world.

RATKE[92] (1571-1635)

Perhaps the first to urge the reforms which constitute the basis of educational theory was
Ratke, a German, born in the province of Holstein. He originated a scheme by which he promised
to teach any language, ancient or modern, in six months. He traveled throughout Europe, endeavoring
to sell his discovery to princes and men of learning. Purchasers had to agree strictly to maintain
the secret. Professor Williams speaks of this conduct as follows: "These were the acts of a
charlatan peddling some secret quack nostrum."[93] Mr. Quick says, "He would also found a school
in which all arts and sciences should be rapidly learned and advanced; he would introduce,
and peacefully maintain throughout the continent, a uniform speech, a uniform government, and,
more wonderful still, a uniform religion. From these modest proposals we should naturally infer
that the promiser was nothing but a quack of more than usual impudence; but the position which
the name of Ratich holds in the history of education is sufficient proof that this is by no
means a complete statement of the matter."[94]

Many thinkers fully believed that the schools were in bondage to the classic studies, that
they did not prepare for life, and that science, which had begun to show signs of awakening,
should have a place in education. The extravagant theories of Ratke, therefore, attracted attention.
Opportunity was given him to put his theories into practice, first at Augsburg, then at Köthen,
and finally at Magdeburg. In each instance he utterly failed, more from want of tact in dealing
with men,--with those in authority, as well as with his teachers and pupils,--than from lack
of soundness in theory. Of course much of his theory was worthless, especially that referring
to the mastery of a language in six months, and that proposing uniformity in speech, government,
and religion.

Ratke's method of teaching a language was not original with him, being similar to, though not
so effective as, that advocated by Roger Ascham, more than a hundred years before (see p. 191),
and suggested first by Pliny, fifteen centuries earlier. Ratke required the pupil to go over
the same matter many times, to learn the grammar in connection with translation, and finally
to translate back into the original. He proposed to follow the same course with all languages,
and have all grammars constructed on the same plan.

The work which Ratke began was more successfully carried out by others who followed him, and
thus fruit has been borne to these new and radical ideas.

Quick sums up Ratke's pedagogy in a few words, as follows:[95]--

1. Everything after the order and course of nature.

2. One thing at a time.

3. One thing again and again repeated.

4. Nothing shall be learned by heart.

5. Uniformity in all things.

6. Knowledge of the thing itself must be given before that which refers to the thing.

7. Everything by experiment and analysis.

8. Everything without coercion;[2] that is, by gentle means, and not by the use of the rod.

Others have worked out these principles until they have become thoroughly incorporated into
every system of modern pedagogy.

COMENIUS[96] (1592-1670)

By far the greatest educator of the seventeenth century, and one of the greatest in educational
history, was Johann Amos Comenius. He was born in Moravia, and belonged to the Protestant body
known as the Moravian Brethren. His early education was neglected, a fact that was not without
its compensation, for, not beginning the study of Latin until sixteen years of age, he was
mature enough to appreciate the defects in the prevalent method of instruction. One of his
most valuable services to education grew out of his attempt to remedy the defects thus discovered.

Of the schools he attended, he says, "They are the terror of boys, and the slaughterhouses
of minds,--places where a hatred of books and literature is contracted, where ten or more years
are spent in learning what might be acquired in one, where what ought to be poured in gently
is violently forced in, and beaten in, where what ought to be put clearly and perspicuously
is presented in a confused and intricate way, as if it were a collection of puzzles,--places
where minds are fed on words."[97]

In speaking of his own experience at school, he says, "I was continually full of thoughts for
the finding out of some means whereby more might be inflamed with the love of learning, and
whereby learning itself might be made more compendious, both in the matter of charge and cost,
and of labor belonging thereto, that so the youth might be brought by a more easy method unto
some notable proficiency in learning."[98]

The life of Comenius, which extended over nearly eighty years, was full of vicissitudes and
trials. Briefly told, it is as follows: He was left an orphan at an early age, had poor educational
advantages in childhood, began the study of Latin at sixteen, and completed his studies at
Heidelberg at twenty-two, having previously studied at Herborn. After leaving the university,
he was teacher of the Moravian School at Prerau for two years, and then having been ordained
to the ministry, became pastor of Fulnek. Here he remained for a number of years, living a
happy and useful life. In the meantime, the Thirty Years' War had broken out, the battle of
Prague had been lost by the Protestants, and the town of Fulnek sacked. Comenius lost everything
he possessed, and this misfortune was soon followed by the death of his wife and child. After
hiding in the mountains for some time, he was banished from his native land, together with
all the other Protestants. This took place in 1627, when Comenius was thirty-five years old.
Though he often longed to return to his fatherland, he was never permitted to do so.

He settled in Poland, and began by the study of the works of Ratke, Bacon, and other writers
to prepare himself for the great task of educational reform. Of this experience he writes,
"After many workings and tossings of my thoughts, by reducing everything to the immovable laws
of nature, I lighted upon my 'Didactica Magna,' which shows the art of readily and solidly
teaching all men all things."

He visited England, Sweden, and Hungary in the interests of education, and was invited to France,
but did not accept the invitation. While living at Leszno, Poland, for a second time his house
was sacked and all his property destroyed. Among other things, his work on Pansophia, and his
Latin-Bohemian dictionary, on which he had labored for forty years, were burned. He closed
his days at Amsterdam, Holland. In addition to the great honors bestowed upon him by the various
countries that sought his advice on educational matters, he was made the chief bishop and head
of the Moravian Brethren. Raumer forcibly sums up the life of Comenius as follows: "Comenius
is a grand and venerable figure of sorrow. Though wandering, persecuted, and homeless, during
the terrible and desolating Thirty Years' War, yet he never despaired, but with enduring courage,
and strong faith, labored unweariedly to prepare youth by a better education for a happier
future. Suspended from the ministry, as he himself tells us, and an exile, he became an apostle
to the Christian youth; and he labored for them with a zeal and love worthy of the chief of
the apostles."[99]

=Pedagogical Work.=--The great educational works of Comenius are his "Gate of Tongues Unlocked,"
the "Great Didactic," and his "Orbis Pictus." Mr. Quick thinks that the "Great Didactic" contains,
in the best form, the principles he afterward endeavored to work out"[100] in his other educational
writings. "The services of Comenius to pedagogy," says Professor Williams, "were of a threefold
character, in each of which his merit was very great. First, he was the true originator of
the principles and methods of the Innovators. Second, he was a great educational systematist.
Third, he was the author of improved text-books, which were long and widely famous."[101] This
is a fair summing up of the remarkable activity of this man with the exception of the first
point. Montaigne, Ratke, and Bacon had previously taught many of the fundamental truths which
Comenius merely amplified and brought to practical fruition, and he himself acknowledged the
influence of the last two men upon him. That the whole purpose of the life of Comenius was
far nobler than that of Ratke or Bacon, there remains no room for doubt. Compayré says, "The
character of Comenius equals his intelligence. Through a thousand obstacles he devoted his
long life to the work of popular instruction. With a generous ardor he consecrated himself
to infancy. He wrote twenty works and taught in twenty cities. Moreover, he was the first to
form a definite conception of what the elementary studies should be."[102]

Bacon gave the inspiration and Comenius worked the truth into practical form; Bacon invented
a new theory of scientific investigation, Comenius employed that theory in education; Bacon
originated and Comenius applied. This does not detract from the merit of Comenius any more
than his work detracts from the merit of Rousseau, Pestalozzi, or Horace Mann, all of whom
gathered inspiration from him.

=Summary of the Work of Comenius.=--(1) He was the author of the first illustrated text-book,
the "Orbis Pictus."[103] The cost of illustrations was for a long time a serious barrier to
their general adoption in schoolbooks; but modern inventions and improvements have removed
this obstacle, and many of the text-books of to-day are as valuable for their illustrations
as for their text. The "Orbis Pictus" appeared in 1658.

(2) In his "Great Didactic," he presents a scheme for general organization of the school system
which covers the first twenty-four years of life. It divides this time into four equal periods
of six years, each as follows:--

1. Infancy, or the mother school, from birth up to six years of age.

2. Boyhood, the vernacular or national school, from six to twelve.

3. Adolescence, the Gymnasium or Latin school, from twelve to eighteen.

4. Youth, the university (including travel), from eighteen to twenty-four.

"The infant school should be found in every house, the vernacular school in every village and
community, the gymnasium in every province, and the university in every kingdom or large province."
This scheme, with variation of details, forms the basis of present school systems: first, the
period in the home with the mother till six; second, the period of general education in the
common school, from six to twelve or fourteen; third, the period of preparation for the professional
schools, from twelve or fourteen to eighteen; and fourth, the professional or university course,
from eighteen to twenty-four. The last is usually divided into a college and a university course.

(3) The educational principles of Comenius were revolutionary as to the school practices of
the time. They have come to be almost universally accepted at present. We can here state only
a few of the most essential.[104]

1. If we would teach and learn surely, we must follow the order of Nature.

2. Let everything be presented through the senses.

3. Proceed from the easy to the difficult, from the near to the remote, from the general to
the special, from the known to the unknown.

4. Make learning pleasant by the choice of suitable material, by not attempting too much, by
the use of concrete examples, and by the selection of that which is of utility.

5. Fix firmly by frequent repetitions and drills.

6. Let all things advance by indissoluble steps, so that everything taught to-day may give
firmness and stability to what was taught yesterday, and point the way to the work of to-morrow.[105]

7. Let everything that is useless be eliminated from teaching.

8. Learn to do by doing.

9. Each language should be learned separately, have a definite time assigned to it, be learned
by use rather than precept,--that is, the practice in learning should be with familiar things,--and
all tongues should be learned by one and the same method.

10. The example of well-ordered life of parents, nurses, teachers, and schoolfellows is very
important for children; but precepts and rules of life must be added to example.

11. As knowledge of God is the highest of all knowledge, the Holy Scriptures must be the alpha
and omega of the Christian schools.

Comenius gives explicit directions as to methods of instruction, class management, discipline,
courses of study, including a discussion of each branch, and moral and religious teaching.
He presents these directions in the most remarkable and complete series of precepts and principles
to be found in educational literature.[106]

MILTON (1608-1674)

John Milton was "the most notable man who ever kept school or published a schoolbook." While
his fame rests on "Paradise Lost" and other great literary works, he deserves a place among
educators for his "Tractate on Education," and for his sympathy with educational reform.

He criticised the schools of his time and sought to make them more practical. Like the earlier
Innovators, and in harmony with the spirit that was rapidly growing, he thought that too much
time was given to the study of Latin, and urged that science, music, physical culture, and
language as a means of acquiring a knowledge of useful things, should receive more attention
in the schools. Quick says, "A protest against a purely literary education comes with tremendous
force from the student who sacrificed his sight to his reading, the accomplished scholar whose
Latin works were known throughout Europe, and the author of 'Paradise Lost.'"[107]

Milton's experience in teaching was confined to a small boarding school, such as those usually
resorted to for educating the sons of the better classes in England at that time. For pupils
he began with two nephews, to whom were soon added a few other boys. These were sons of Milton's
friends, and some of them came as boarders, others as day students. Milton seemed to like the
work of teaching, and it was during this period that his "Tractate" was written. He probably
taught school in this way for eight or nine years, and then was appointed to a small office
under the government, which secured his living. The rest of his life was devoted chiefly to
literary work.

Milton's scheme of education may be briefly summed up as follows:--

1. The school premises should consist of a spacious house with large school grounds, intended
for about one hundred and thirty students from twelve to twenty-one years of age, who should
receive their complete secondary and university education in the same school. This scheme,
so unique in Milton's time, is practically carried out in France and the United States, where
the connection between the lower and higher schools is direct. In England, the land of its
inception, and in Germany, there is no such direct articulation between the lower and the higher
schools.

2. The course of study embraces, first, the Latin grammar, arithmetic, geometry, religion,
and Greek authors to be read in translation; second, Latin authors, geography, natural philosophy;
third, Greek, trigonometry,--intended to prepare for fortification,--architecture, engineering,
and navigation, anatomy, and medicine.

This course is supposed to be completed at about the age of sixteen. The harder topics now
follow, together with the study of those subjects intended to teach ethical judgment. Milton
says, "As they begin to acquire character, and to reason on the difference between good and
evil, there will be required a constant and sound indoctrinating to set them right and firm,
instructing them more amply in the knowledge of virtue and the hatred of vice." Then come Greek
authors, Holy Writ, poetry, and "at any odd hour, the Italian tongue," ethics, and politics.
He adds in his course also the study of law, including Roman edicts and English common law,
a knowledge of Hebrew, and possibly Syrian and Chaldaic.

Nor were physical exercises omitted. Sword exercises, wrestling, military tactics, riding,
etc., were to be daily practiced, each in its proper time. Finally, the young man, when about
twenty-three years of age, should travel abroad, and thus, when mature enough to comprehend
them, become acquainted with the geography, history, and politics of other countries. This
was to be the final preparation for citizenship and service of country. Mr. Browning pronounces
this a "magnificent and comprehensive scheme." The most serious criticism of it is, that it
marks out much more than the average young man can accomplish.

LOCKE[109] (1632-1704)

John Locke was the son of a Puritan gentleman who took active part in the wars for religious
freedom fought during the latter part of the seventeenth century. Without doubt the stirring
scenes enacted and the great moral movements which occupied England had a great influence upon
Locke's life. He was carefully trained at home until he was about fourteen years old, when
he entered Westminster School, a Puritan institution, where he remained for six years. He then
entered Oxford, and in due time took his bachelor's and master's degrees. In 1660, when twenty-eight
years old, he was made tutor of Christ Church, Oxford, where he lectured on Greek, rhetoric,
and philosophy. He interested himself in theology, but never took orders; and he also studied
medicine and for a time practiced it. His own health was precarious, he having suffered, from
chronic consumption nearly all his life. Nevertheless, he accomplished a tremendous amount
of work. The friendship of the Earl of Shaftesbury gave Locke some political prestige. He lived
in the family of that nobleman for many years, and was the tutor of his son and grandson.

Locke's great work, on which his fame securely rests, is the "Essay concerning Human Understanding,"
which stamps him as the greatest of English philosophers. This appeared in 1690. His most important
educational work is entitled "Some Thoughts concerning Education." Compayré says, "From psychology
to pedagogy the transition is easy, and Locke had to make no great effort to become an authority
on education after having been an accomplished philosopher." Further, the same author says
concerning the essential principles discussed in "Thoughts concerning Education," "These are:
1, in physical education, the hardening process; 2, in intellectual education, practical utility;
3, in moral education, the principle of honor, set up as a rule for the free self-government
of man."

In Locke, for the first time, we find a careful set of rules as to the food, sleep, physical
exercise, and clothing of children. While modern science rejects some of these, most of them
are regarded as sound in practice. Plenty of outdoor exercise, clothing loose and not too warm,
plain food with but little meat or sugar, proper hours of sleep, and beds not too soft, early
retiring and rising, and cold baths, are means prescribed to harden the body and prepare it
to resist the attacks of disease. "A sound mind in a sound body" is the celebrated aphorism
which sums up Locke's educational theory.

As to moral education, Locke declares, "That which a gentleman ought to desire for his son,
besides the fortune which he leaves him, is, 1, virtue; 2, prudence; 3, good manners; 4, instruction."
In his course of study the idea of utility prevails. After reading, writing, drawing, geography,
and the mother tongue are mastered, Locke, like Montaigne, would teach the language of nearest
neighbors, and then Latin. Even the Latin tongue should be learned through use, rather than
by rules of grammar and by memorizing the works of classic authors.

While his system of education was planned for sons of gentlemen, Locke urged the establishment
of "working schools" for children of the laboring classes. This was in line with his utilitarian
ideas, as the intent was not so much intellectual training, as the formation of steady habits
and the preparation for success in industrial pursuits. Locke's plan was for a sort of manual
training school, the first appearance of such a project in history.

Locke did not believe in universal education, nor in the public school. Only gentlemen were
provided for in his formal scheme, and herein he followed the path marked out by Alfred the
Great eight hundred years before, which England has not completely forsaken to this day. Since
he had done all his teaching as a private tutor in the family of a gentleman, one can easily
understand his advocacy of that form of instruction for the favored few. Locke's teachings
in this respect are gradually losing their hold even in England, the most conservative of all
countries in educational matters, and the latest great nation to accept the principle of universal
education. During the last quarter of a century England has been earnestly seeking to give
every child, whether of gentle or of humble birth, rich or poor, what his birthright demands,--a
good common school education.

The influence of Locke upon education, then, has been very great. Williams remarks that "he
inspired Rousseau with nearly every valuable thought which appears in the brilliant pages of
his 'Émile.' He seems himself to have derived some of his most characteristic ideas from Montaigne,
and possibly also from Rabelais."[110] Although Locke differed from other educational reformers
in many respects, though he was somewhat narrow in his conception of education, owing to his
environment, he opposed the dry formalism that characterized the educational practice of his
time, and sought to emancipate man both intellectually and physically.

FÉNELON (1651-1715)

Fénelon was born of noble parents in the province of Périgord, France. During his early years
his father attended very carefully to his education, and later his uncle, the Marquis de Fénelon,
became his guardian. Though delicate in health, the boy showed remarkable aptness in learning.
At the age of twelve he entered the college of Cahors, and thence went to the university of
Paris. He was destined by his parents for the Church, for which, by natural temperament and
pious zeal, he was well fitted. He preached at fifteen with marked success, and took up a theological
course at St. Sulpice. At the age of twenty-four he was ordained priest. He desired to enter
the missionary field, first in Canada, and later in Greece, but had to abandon this purpose
on account of ill health.

Saint-Simon, in his "Mémoires," describes Fénelon as a man of striking appearance, and says,
"His manner altogether corresponded to his appearance; his perfect ease was infectious to others,
and his conversation was stamped with the grace and good taste which are acquired by habitual
intercourse with the best society and the great world."

For ten years Fénelon was at the head of the convent of the New Catholics, an institution which
sought to reclaim Protestant young women to Catholicism. In this position, as well as in all
his lifework, though himself an ardent Catholic, Fénelon's course was so temperate and just
that he won the warmest admiration even of Protestants, who did not accept his faith. Among
his friends were the Duke and Duchess of Beauvilliers, who had eight daughters and several
sons. At their suggestion, and for the purpose of helping them in educating their daughters,
he wrote his first and most important educational work, "The Education of Girls." Compayré
pronounces this "the first classical work of French pedagogy." He further speaks of this book
as "a work of gentleness and goodness, of a complaisant and amiable grace, which is pervaded
by a spirit of progress."[111] It appeared in 1687.

In 1689, when thirty-eight years of age, Fénelon was chosen preceptor of the grandson of Louis
XIV., the young Duke of Burgundy. In this position his remarkable powers as a teacher were
brought to light, and he applied the theories which he had promulgated. The young duke, who
was eight years of age, was of a passionate nature, hard to control, and yet, withal, of warm-hearted
impulses. It is said that "he would break the clocks which summoned him to unwelcome duty,
and fly into the wildest rage with the rain which hindered some pleasure." The "Telemachus"[112]
of Fénelon, perhaps his greatest literary work, was composed at this time, as were also his
"Dialogues of the Dead" and his "Fables." The inspiration of all these works was found in the
charge committed to him--that of properly instructing his royal pupil. Fénelon thus created
the material through which he interested the boy and taught him the intended lessons. The "Telemachus"
was designed for the moral and political instruction of the prince; through his "Dialogues
of the Dead" he taught history; and his "Fables" were composed for the purpose of teaching
the moral and intellectual lessons which he wished to impart to his illustrious, but headstrong,
pupil. Fénelon's success with the prince was phenomenal, as the passionate boy became affectionate,
docile, and obedient.

The success of the experiment, however, was never put to the final test, as the duke died before
coming to the throne. There seems to be no doubt that the cure was permanent, and it is not
believed that, like Nero, he would have relapsed into his former viciousness and cruelty.

One naturally compares Fénelon with Seneca. To both were committed children, heirs apparent
to thrones,--willful, cruel, disobedient, and hard to control. In Seneca's pupil the seeds
of cruelty remained, to germinate into the awful tyrant; in Fénelon's the evil seemed to be
permanently eradicated, and the result was a prince with generous impulses and noble intentions.
And this result was largely owing to the difference in the teachers,--Fénelon, the gentle,
but firm, patient, painstaking conscientious man; Seneca, the more brilliant, but vacillating
and timeserving sycophant.

=Fénelon's Pedagogy.=--1. There must be systematic care of the body. Therefore regular meals
and plain food, plenty of sleep, exercise, etc., are essential.

2. All instruction must be made pleasant and interesting. Play is to be utilized in teaching.
In this he anticipated Froebel.

3. Let punishments be as light as possible. Encourage children to be open and truthful, and
do not prevent confession by making punishments too frequent or too severe. Punishment should
be administered privately, as a rule, and publicly only when all other means have failed.

4. Present the thing before its name,--the idea before the word. Study things, investigate.
Employ curiosity. In this he was a disciple of Bacon and Comenius, and a prophet to Pestalozzi.

5. Allow nothing to be committed to memory that is not understood.

6. Girls, also, must share the benefits of education. Especial attention should be given to
teaching them modesty, gentleness, piety, household economy, the duties of their station in
life, and those of motherhood.

7. Morality should be taught early and by means of fables, stories, and concrete examples.

8. Proceed from the near at hand to the remote, from the known to the unknown. Thus in language,
after the mother tongue, teach other living languages, and then the classics. The latter are
to be learned by conversation about common objects, and by application of the rules of grammar
in connection therewith. In geography and history one's own environment and country should
be learned first, then other countries.

9. Example is of great importance to all periods of life, but especially to childhood. This
Fénelon practically illustrated by his own life and by the concrete cases which he used. Voltaire
says of Fénelon, "His wit was overflowing with beauty, his heart with goodness."

LA SALLE AND THE BROTHERS OF THE CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS[113]

In 1681, La Salle, a devoted priest of the Catholic Church, organized the Brothers of the Christian
Schools.

The idea primarily was to awaken interest in elementary education. He perfected the work already
done by Peter Faurier, Charles Demia, and others. The method of instruction, up to this time,
had been largely individual. The pupils were called up to the teacher, one by one, or at most
two by two, and, after the lesson had been heard, they were sent back to their seats to study.
La Salle conceived the idea of grading together pupils of the same advancement, and teaching
them simultaneously,--a practice now employed in primary schools everywhere. It is known as
the Simultaneous Method. Brother Azarias says of this method, "Because we all of us have been
trained according to this method, and see it practiced in nearly all of our public and many
of our private schools throughout the land, and have ceased to find it a subject of wonder,
we may be inclined to undervalue its importance. Not so was it regarded in the days of La Salle.
Then a Brothers' School was looked upon with admiration. Strangers were shown it as a curiosity
worth visiting."

La Salle laid down many explicit rules concerning punishment, methods of teaching, and school
organization in a book called "The Conduct of Schools." While modern criticism would condemn
many of these rules, we think, with Compayré, that "whatever the distance which separates these
gloomy schools from our modern ideal,--from the pleasant, active, animated school, such as
we conceive it to-day,--there is none the less obligation to do justice to La Salle, to pardon
him for practices which were those of his time, and to admire him for the good qualities that
were peculiarly his own."[114]

He established the first normal school in history at Rheims in 1684, thirteen years before
Francke organized his teachers' class at Halle, and fifty years before Hecker founded the first
Prussian normal school at Stettin. La Salle magnified the teacher's office, and urgently demanded
professional training for instructors of the young. Brother Azarias forcibly sums up La Salle's
great work in this respect as follows: "He is the benefactor of the modern schoolmaster. He
it was who raised primary teaching out of the ruts of never ending routine, carried on in the
midst of time-honored noise and confusion, and, in giving it principles and a method, made
of it a science. He hedged in the dignity of the schoolmaster. He was the first to assert the
exclusive right of the master to devote his whole time to his school work."[115]

Education, therefore, owes to La Salle three important contributions,--(1) the Simultaneous
Method of Instruction, whereby a number of children of the same advancement are taught together;
(2) the first Normal School, established at Rheims, France, in 1684; and (3) a dignifying of
the teacher's profession by setting apart trained persons who should give all their time to
the work of teaching.

=Rollin (1661-1741).=--This great teacher, connected for many years with the University of
Paris, and deposed therefrom in connection with the Jansenists to whom he adhered, was not
merely a university lecturer, but also an author of educational works and a student of general
education. His most important educational work is his "Treatise on Studies." Rollin anticipated
modern practice by seeking to make learning pleasant and discipline humane. He would use the
rod only as a last resort--a theory quite contrary to the practice of that time. Too much freedom,
he thought, would have a tendency to make children impudent; too frequent appeal to fear breaks
the spirit; praise arouses and encourages the child, but too much of it makes him vain. Therefore
the teacher must avoid both extremes. While he would have girls know the four ground rules
of arithmetic, that is about all they should have except domestic training. Rollin had no connection
with elementary schools and but little contact with children; therefore his precepts do not
always have the sound basis that experience furnishes. Nevertheless, he exerted a salutary
influence upon the education of his time.

=Summary of the Educational Progress of the Seventeenth Century.=--1. School systems were established
and compulsory attendance made efficient in Weimar in 1619, in Gotha in 1642, and in many other
cities, showing a growing recognition of the principle of universal education and the duty
of the State to assume the responsibility for its attainment.

2. A school of educators, known as the "Innovators," laid emphasis on sense-realism,--the study
of things, the contact with nature, the education that is of practical use.

3. Bacon laid the foundation of all future scientific research by his inductive method. This
increased the riches of the world beyond calculation, taught how investigation is to be made,
laid the foundation of modern science, and gave direction to all later education.

4. Ratke, though erratic and vulgar, instituted wholesome reforms in the teaching of languages,
and promulgated theories which, under later reformers, bore rich fruitage.

5. Comenius, one of the greatest educators of all time, produced the first illustrated text-book,
planned a general organization for schools in several countries, which is the basis of present
systems, and proclaimed theories which are now universally accepted as the guide of modern
pedagogical practice.

6. Milton, though primarily a literary man, lent the weight of his genius and his great name
to school reform. He marked out a course of study which contemplates a unity of purpose from
the elementary school to the university.

7. The great English philosopher, Locke, also found time to devote to education. His principle,
"A sound mind in a sound body," directed attention to physical education.

8. In the noble French priest, Fénelon, we find an example of theory practically applied. He
gives, also, for the first time, a place in pedagogy to the education of girls.

9. In general, we find that the seventeenth century laid stress upon the principle of utility,
gave great impulse to science, called attention to the care of the body, decreased the influence
of classic studies, brushed away the fabric which superstition and conservatism had woven,
produced some of the greatest educators that have ever lived, and laid the foundations on which
modern education is built.

FOOTNOTES:

[86] For special reference see Macaulay's "Essays," Vols. II and III.

[87] "Essays," Vol. III, p. 354.

[88] Ibid., Vol. III, p. 368.

[89] For a full description of his trial consult Macaulay's "Essays." Also his biographer,
Montagu, whose judgment of Bacon is much milder than Macaulay's.

[90] "Essays," Vol. III, p. 459.

[91] Ibid., Vol. III, p. 470.

[92] Also Rateke, Radtke, and Ratich. Paulsen pronounces the last "an abominable mutilation
of Latinization."

[93] "History of Modern Education," p. 141.

[94] Quick, "Educational Reformers," p. 51.

[95] "Educational Reformers," p. 53.

[96] Especial attention is called to Laurie's "Life of Comenius," and Monroe's "Comenius."
For other works, see Appendix of Bardeen's edition of Laurie's "Comenius."

[97] Laurie, "Life of Comenius," p. 14.

[98] Preface to the "Prodromus."

[99] Raumer, "Geschichte der Pädagogik."

[100] "Educational Reformers," p. 73.

[101] "History of Modern Education," p. 151.

[102] "History of Pedagogy," p. 122.

[103] See "Orbis Pictus," edited and published by C. W. Bardeen, Syracuse, N.Y.

[104] Laurie's "Life and Works of Comenius," p. 77.

[105] Ibid., p. 105.

[106] For full discussion of the pedagogical principles of Comenius, see Professor Laurie's
great work.

[107] "Educational Reformers," p. 59.

[108] "Tractate," p. 3.

[109] See Fowler's "Locke." Also Quick, Compayré, and Williams.

[110] "History of Modern Education," p. 181.

[111] "History of Pedagogy," p. 165.

[112] "Schoolmaster in Comedy and Satire," pp. 73-100.

[113] Especial reference is made to Brother Azarias, "Essays Educational."

[114] "History of Pedagogy," p. 276.

[115] "Essays Educational," p. 238.

CHAPTER XXXIV

AUGUST HERMANN FRANCKE AND THE PIETISTS (1663-1727)

=Literature.=--Rein, Encyklopädisches Handbuch; Strack, Geschichte des Volkschulwesens; Dyer,
Modern Europe; Rein, Am Ende der Schulreform? Russell, German Higher Schools.

PIETISM

Pietism is the name of a movement in Germany which sought to revive spiritual life in the Lutheran
Church. In that church, religion had become purely a matter of intellect, instead of heart.
Cold formality and adherence to the letter, rather than the spirit, had taken possession of
the Protestant Church. Like the Jansenists in France, who had a similar purpose with reference
to the Catholic Church, and later the Methodists in England, who sought to awaken religious
zeal in the Church of England, the Pietists of Germany endeavored to vitalize religious life,
and to lead men away from creeds promulgated by human agency, to the pure word of God. The
Pietists differed from the orthodox Lutherans not in doctrine, but in insisting on the necessity
of a change of heart and a pious life, instead of mere adherence to formal doctrine.

The Pietists founded the university of Halle, and this remained the center of the movement
until it had run its course. Pietism had its inception during the latter part of the seventeenth
century, and it extended through the first half of the eighteenth century. Its originator was
Philipp Jakob Spener, a man of remarkable zeal and godly life. Though it met with bitter opposition
on the part of the orthodox Lutherans, it certainly did great good, not only to its adherents,
but to the Church at large, by awakening deeper spiritual life. Its influence was also great
in reviving Biblical study in Germany, in improving the character of teachers, and in giving
a spiritual direction to the studies of the schools. It has left an enduring monument in the
great Institutions that it founded at Halle. The greatest of the Pietists was August Hermann
Francke, who is celebrated, not only as a theologian, but as a philanthropist and teacher.

FRANCKE[116] (1663-1727)

Francke's early education was conducted by private teachers, though his parents, who were intelligent
and God-fearing people, exerted a strong influence upon him. At thirteen he entered the highest
class of the Gymnasium at Gotha, where he remained for one year. Here he was introduced to
the reform teachings of Ratke and Comenius. Two years later he entered the university of Erfurt
as a student of theology. He studied also at Kiel and Leipsic. While he gave particular attention
to Hebrew and Greek, he also learned French, English, and Italian. He seemed to be gifted with
a talent for learning languages, for during a short residence in Holland in later life he learned
the Dutch language so well that he was able to preach in it. Under the instruction of a Jewish
rabbi, he read the Hebrew Bible through seven times in one year. After spending some time as
teacher in a private school, he returned to Leipsic as Privat Docent[117] in the university.

Having become acquainted with Spener and his teachings, Francke became an earnest Pietist.
His success in lecturing and his zeal in religious work drew around him a large number of students.
This awakened the envy of the old professors of the university, and they began a persecution
which caused his dismissal. He then went to Erfurt and preached with remarkable success, drawing
great crowds by his earnestness and eloquence. Persecution again followed him, and he was banished
from the city.

About this time the new university of Halle called Francke to the chair of Greek and oriental
languages and afterward to that of theology. He began his work in 1692, and remained in that
position for nearly thirty-six years, until his death. As this position did not furnish enough
to live upon, he became pastor of the church in the neighboring village of Glaucha. In his
pastoral work he came in contact with poverty, drunkenness, and every form of immorality. Moved
with pity, he collected small sums of money, which he distributed among the poor after catechising
the children.

At Easter, 1695, he found seven guldens ($2.80) in the collection boxes, which he declared
to be "A splendid capital with which something of importance can be founded; I will begin a
school for the poor with it." This was the beginning of the great orphan asylum at Halle,--an
enterprise the magnitude of which we shall describe later. Without visible income, with no
means at command, but with a sublime faith in God and humanity, and an overwhelming sense of
the ignorance and misery of the children about him, Francke began at once the great work; nor
was his faith misplaced, as the result shows. He gathered together a few children and placed
a student over them as a teacher. Soon the better class of citizens took an interest, and desired
him to provide a school for their children. Two rooms were rented, one for those who could
not pay and the other for those who could. This was the foundation of the free school and the
citizens' school still connected with the Institutions. In the fall of 1695, Francke founded
the orphan asylum. Money flowed in from all parts of the country as people began to understand
the great work. Francke was thus able to branch out in many directions. He established a Pedagogium
to prepare teachers for his and other schools; free meals were furnished to students who devoted
a part of their time to teaching in the institutions; separate schools for boys and girls,
a Gymnasium, a Real-school, a bookbindery and printing establishment, and many other institutions
were founded.

=The Institutions at Halle.=--In a few years Francke had in successful operation a marvelous
system, a work founded upon love of humanity and dependent upon philanthropy for its support.
The results attracted attention from all Europe, and students came from many lands. "At the
death of Francke in the year 1727, the following report of the Institutions was sent to King
Frederick William I.: (1) In the Pedagogium, 82 scholars, 70 teachers and other persons; (2)
in the Latin school, 3 inspectors, 32 teachers, 400 pupils, and 10 servants; (3) in the common
school, 4 inspectors, 98 male teachers, 8 female teachers, 1725 boys and girls; (4) orphans,
100 boys, 34 girls, 10 overseers; (5) at the free table, 225 students, 360 poor children; (6)
employed in the drug store, bookstore, etc., and other persons in the establishment, 82."[118]
This makes a total of over 3200 persons instructed, sheltered, employed, or otherwise connected
with these great Institutions. The foundations were so firmly laid that the progress has been
steady from that time to this. At present there are no less than twenty-five different enterprises
connected with the Institutions, among which may be mentioned a free school for boys, and one
for girls; a common school for boys, and one for girls; a royal Pedagogium; a Latin school;
a higher girls' school; a Realgymnasium; a preparatory school for the high school; a Real-school;
an orphan asylum for boys, and one for girls; a boarding house for students; a Bible house,
which has distributed about 6,500,000 Bibles and religious works; a teachers' seminary (normal
school) for each sex; a bookstore, a printing house, and a drug store.[119] About 3000 children
receive instruction in the various schools, and about 118,000 have been recipients of the benefits
since the Institutions were founded two hundred years ago. The cost is about one million marks
a year, which is covered by endowments, by tuition fees, by profits from the productive departments
(bookstores, printing establishment, etc.), and by moneys received from the State. Francke's
idea of depending upon voluntary gifts has been abandoned.

All this work is the result of the energy of a man who began with a capital of less than three
dollars, and a vast amount of faith to found "something of importance."

=The Training of Teachers.=--While Francke's greatest work for mankind was the Institutions
mentioned above, we must notice one field of his activity that is of especial importance to
us,--that of the training of teachers. We have seen that, on account of the scarcity of funds,
he was obliged to rely upon students to do the work of instructing the children committed to
his care. The young theologians made use of this opportunity as a stepping-stone to their future
calling, the ministry, and Francke, perceiving this, sought to secure the most pious and gifted
among his theological students for this work. He also established a pedagogical class (Pedagogium).
After two years' membership therein, the student was allowed to teach provided he pledged himself
to devote three years to teaching in the schools. This class met once a week for criticism
and discussion under the leadership of the inspector of the school, and the various inspectors
met Francke every evening for further instruction. The results soon attracted widespread notice,
and created a great demand for Francke's teachers. Although this was very crude pedagogical
training, it may be regarded as the inception of the normal school, which has now come to be
an essential part of every educational system.

=The Real-school.=--A third service is credited by many to Francke, namely, the founding of
the Real-school[120] of Germany. The best authorities give that credit to Professor Erhard
Weigel of Jena. Whether or not the idea originated with Francke, he was ready to accept the
necessity of such a change, and founded schools for higher learning in which Greek and Latin
were not required, and in which more attention was given to modern languages and science.

FOOTNOTES:

[116] Rein's "Encyklopädisches Handbuch," Vol. II, p. 336.

[117] The Privat Docent is the first step in the professor's career in the German university.
He is allowed to lecture in the university, but receives no pay except fees from the students
who hear him.

[118] K. Schmidt, "Geschichte der Pädagogik," Vol. III, p. 462.

[119] See Rein, "Encyklopädisches Handbuch," Vol. II, p. 348.

[120] The Real-school is the great rival of the Gymnasium in Germany. The latter is the old
established school which bases culture on the Humanities,--the classic languages, and literature.
The Real-school is more modern and gives greater attention to the Realities,--to things of
practical utility. Precedence is given to the modern languages, sciences, and arts. While the
chief purpose of the Gymnasium is to prepare for the learned professions, that of the Real-school
is to prepare for practical life. The relation of these two institutions to each other and
to the university led to the Berlin Conference in 1890, at which it clearly appeared that the
younger is outstripping the older and more conservative institution. See Russell, "German Higher
Schools."

CHAPTER XXXV

GENERAL VIEW OF THE EIGHTEENTH AND NINETEENTH CENTURIES

=Literature.=--Dyer, Modern Europe; Duruy, The French Revolution; Yonge, Three Centuries of
Modern History; Andrews, Institutes of General History; Lord, Beacon Lights; Taylor, History
of Germany; Guizot, History of Civilization; Draper, Conflict between Religion and Science;
Schwickerath, Jesuit Education.

The history of the world since the seventeenth century has been crowded with events, and characterized
by movements of greatest moment to mankind. It is not the purpose of this work to discuss political
movements, to chronicle wars, or to study the great upheavals of society except in so far as
they have a direct bearing upon educational questions.[121]

The political chains that fettered the nations of the world have gradually been broken until
greater liberty has been secured, a more perfect acknowledgment of the rights of the individual
brought about, and a more tolerant religious spirit fostered in every civilized land. These
things have exerted a tremendous force in the intellectual emancipation of man. At last the
long struggle of the centuries begins to bear legitimate fruit, and the supreme educational
purpose of Christianity, that of asserting and maintaining the importance of the individual,
seems destined to complete realization. The noble truths of brotherly love, equality before
God, and human rights were obscured during the long centuries,--obscured sometimes by the very
institution whose chief aim is to scatter light and give gladness to men. It has remained for
modern education to rediscover the educational principles which the Great Teacher promulgated,
and which through the struggle of centuries failed of recognition, and bore indifferent fruit.

Among the many social and political changes that have taken place during the last two centuries,
we may mention a few that have a direct influence upon education. Preceding centuries had prepared
the way,--had broken the ground and sown the seed, and now the world was ready to reap an abundant
harvest.

The great political events of this period may be briefly summarized as follows:--

1. The abolition of human slavery.--Great Britain, Spain, France, Russia, and finally our own
country have forever removed the shackles of the slave within their borders. Perhaps the greatest
of all emancipation acts was that of Russia, which, in 1861, without bloodshed and without
serious disturbance, by royal decree, set free forty million serfs. The abolition of slavery
in nearly all civilized countries is the greatest political triumph of Christian civilization.
Without this there could never have come that higher intellectual emancipation which is the
aim sought in all education.

2. The extension of political rights.--This is another victory that must be credited to the
period under discussion. At the beginning of the eighteenth century there was scarcely a nation
that acknowledged the right of the individual to a part in government, or to personal freedom.
Men were in vassalage to their immediate lord, who, in turn, was obliged to acknowledge the
"divine right" of the king over him. With the exception of Switzerland, who for centuries had
maintained her freedom, and of England, who had secured the rights of man only by much bloodshed,
there was scarcely a people in the world that possessed the right of self-government. Even
England had secured that right only in the latter half of the seventeenth century under the
leadership of Cromwell. This right she did not concede to her colonies, however, until the
American Revolution wrested her richest dependency from her, and forever established the principle
of self-government for a sovereign people.

Immediately following the American Revolution came the French Revolution, which taught the
Old World the ideas so heroically conceived, so bravely supported, and so successfully realized
in the New World. Nor is this all. The same principle has compelled the rulers of most of the
European nations to divide the responsibility of government with their subjects, and to grant
their people enlarged powers but little short of absolute sovereignty.

3. Science has been recognized as a powerful instrument of civilization.--Through scientific
discoveries there has been a wonderful accession to material wealth, invention has been stimulated,
and progress has been made in all directions. The spirit of investigation has been fostered,
old theories and superstitions have been abandoned, and truth has been established upon their
ruins. In this direction more has been done by science during the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries than during the whole previous history of the world. Man has now become master of
heretofore unknown forces which he may utilize as a blessing for the human race. We shall see
in later pages that scientific investigation has become the greatest educational principle
of modern times.

4. Religious freedom has been attained.--The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries witnessed
many struggles for religious liberty, which resulted in no decided victory. It was not until
the last two centuries that complete religious freedom was gained. Men are no longer bound
to accept ecclesiastical decrees without question, but every one may weigh and consider, and
freely decide for himself. Civil law protects, civil society sustains, and public opinion justifies
men in the exercise of personal liberty in religious matters.

By the realization of these great principles educational progress has been encouraged. The
greatest obstacles have been removed, and the future opens with possibilities of universal
brotherhood, universal peace, and universal education.

It remains for us to study some of the men who have contributed to the educational progress
of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, to trace the chief movements in the intellectual
development of the race, and to examine the school systems of the representative nations of
the world at the present time.

FOOTNOTES:

[121] It must be freely admitted that such influences are powerful in shaping the destiny of
man, and that they have had much to do with education, as we have often shown in the foregoing
pages. We must, however, leave the tracing of the movements to each individual student.

CHAPTER XXXVI

MODERN EDUCATORS

=Literature.=--Davidson, Rousseau; Graham, Rousseau; Morley, Life of Rousseau; Rousseau, Émile;
Munroe, Educational Ideal; Vogel, Geschichte der Pädagogik; Quick, Educational Reformers; Weir,
The Key to Rousseau's Émile (article in Educational Review, Vol. XVI, p. 61); Compayré, History
of Pedagogy.

ROUSSEAU (1712-1778)

Jean Jacques Rousseau was born in Geneva, Switzerland. His father was a watchmaker, and upon
him devolved the education of the boy, as the mother died in childbirth. Rousseau's father
was a man of dissipated habits, careless of responsibility, and of very violent temper. He
interested himself in his son far enough to teach him to read, and supplied him with the worthless
novels which he himself was fond of reading. This unwise course doubtless had much to do in
shaping the character of the boy. Probably it was the evil effects of this early literature
that led Rousseau later in life to oppose teaching young children to read. Quick says, "Rousseau
professed a hatred of books, which he said kept the student so long engaged upon the thoughts
of other people as to have no time to make a store of his own."

Abandoned by his father at the age of ten, he was taken into the family of his uncle, who apprenticed
him, first to a notary, and afterward to an engraver. At the age of sixteen he ran away, and
began a life of vagabondage. While yet a young man, he became involved in intrigues, which,
according to his own account in his "Confessions," were no credit to him. Madame de Warens,
a young widow with whom he lived for some years, sent him to school at St. Lazare, where he
studied the classics and music; but he soon lapsed again into vagabondage. He picked up a little
music, and attempted to give lessons in it, but with small success. He also took a position
as private tutor, but he had no talent for teaching. Later in life he married Thérèse le Vasseur,
a woman from the common ranks of life. She bore him five children, all of whom he committed
to foundling hospitals without means of identification. He did this because he was not willing
that his own comfort or plans should be disturbed by the presence of children. Rousseau had
reason to regret this heartless and unnatural course when, in later years, he sought in vain
to find some trace of his children. Compayré says, "If he loved to observe children, he observed,
alas, only the children of others. There is nothing sadder than that page of the 'Confessions,'
in which he relates how he often placed himself at the window to observe the dismission of
a school, in order to listen to the conversations of children as a furtive and unseen observer!"[122]

In 1749 Rousseau successfully competed for a prize offered by the Academy of Dijon on the subject,
"Has the restoration of the sciences contributed to purify or to corrupt manners?" Rousseau
entered this contest quite accidentally. He saw the notice of the contest in a newspaper, and
decided at once to compete.

This essay made him famous, and its publication was the beginning of a remarkable literary
career. His principal literary works are his "Confessions," in which he declares that he conceals
nothing concerning himself; the "Social Contract," an anti-monarchic work, which many believe
incited the French Revolution; "Héloïse," a novel over-strained in sentiment and immoral in
its teachings, but "full of pathos and knowledge of the human heart"; and "Émile," his greatest
work, which contains his educational theories. The "Émile"[123] was an epoch-making book, which
excited great interest throughout Europe. It is said that the philosopher Emanuel Kant became
so absorbed in reading it that he forgot to take his daily walk.

=Pedagogy.=--(a) Rousseau's first principle is, "Everything is good as it comes from the hands
of the Author of nature; everything degenerates in the hands of man." It follows, then, that
education has only to prevent the entrance of evil, and let nature continue the work begun.
It is to be a negative, as well as a natural, process. The fallacy of this principle is very
forcibly shown by Vogel[124] as follows: "The very first sentence of 'Émile,' that man by nature
is good, is a fundamental error; for by nature, that is, from birth, man is neither good nor
bad, but morally indifferent. Only when the individual possesses mature self-consciousness
does he have a correct idea of good and evil. If man by nature is good, it is inexplicable
how evil can originate within him. External things may, indeed, furnish motives to evil, but
are never in themselves evil; the evil arises rather from the conduct of the individual toward
outside objects. If, then, evil does not come from without, and is not by nature already within
the heart, it is impossible that there shall be such a thing as evil."

(b) The first education is physical and it begins at birth. As the physical wants of the child
are natural they should be satisfied, but the clothing should be of such character as not to
interfere with the perfect freedom of the body. Great care must be taken to distinguish between
the real wants of the child and its passing whims. To gratify the latter because of the crying
of the child will tend to form bad habits. In this connection may be taught the first moral
lessons. It thus becomes important that the speech, gestures, and expressions of the young
child shall be carefully studied. This is the first suggestion of the necessity for child study.
The idea was later developed by Pestalozzi and Froebel, and is one of the most important features
of recent pedagogical activity.

(c) The child's second period begins with his ability to speak and continues till the twelfth
year. No attempt must be made to educate the child for his future, but he must be allowed to
get the full enjoyment of childhood by freedom to play as he will. Let him run, jump, and test
his strength, thereby acquiring judgment of the material forces about him, and learning how
to take care of himself. Leave him free to do what he will, let him have what he wishes, but,
as far as possible, he should be led to depend upon himself to satisfy his wants. Give him
perfect freedom, for freedom is the fundamental law of education. If he disobeys, do not punish
him,--disobedience works its own punishment; therefore, do not command him. The training of
the senses is the important work of this period; therefore, there should be as little moral
training as possible, and absolutely no religious training. The only moral idea for the child
to learn is that of ownership. He is to be prevented from vice in a negative manner, that is,
by never being allowed to meet it. "The only habit that a child should be allowed to form is
to contract no habit."

He is to have a preceptor devoted entirely to him, not to instruct or control him, but to lead
him to discover and experience for himself. In regard to his intellectual instruction, Rousseau
says of Émile at twelve years of age, "that he has not learned to distinguish his right hand
from his left." Books are entirely proscribed, and, indeed, they are useless to him as he cannot
read; the only intellectual knowledge the child receives is that which comes from things through
his own experience.

This is a brief outline of the erratic, impossible, and inconsistent training that Rousseau
provides for Émile during this period when the foundation of character in the child must be
laid. Gréard says, "Rousseau goes beyond progressive education to recommend an education in
fragments, so to speak, which isolates the faculties in order to develop them one after another,
which establishes an absolute line of demarkation between the different ages, and which ends
in distinguishing three stages of progress in the soul. Rousseau's error on this point is in
forgetting that the education of the child ought to prepare for the education of the young man."

(d) The third period extends from the twelfth to the fifteenth year. It is the period of intellectual
development. With no habits of thought or study, being little else than a robust animal, in
three years Émile is to obtain all needed intellectual training. True, Rousseau excludes everything
that is not useful, and places limitations even on that. For example, he naturally lays great
stress upon the physical sciences which are to be taught in connection with things themselves,--out
of doors, by travel, and in actual life; but he allows no history, or grammar, or ancient languages.
No books are permitted save "Robinson Crusoe," which Rousseau finds entirely suitable for Émile.
A trade is to be learned during this period.

While in general we condemn Rousseau's scheme of education, there is much in his methods that
is most excellent. On this point Compayré comments as follows: "At least in the general method
which he commends, Rousseau makes amends for the errors in his plan of study: 'Do not treat
the child to discourses which he cannot understand. No descriptions, no eloquence, no figures
of speech. Be content to present to him appropriate objects. Let us transform our sensations
into ideas. But let us not jump at once from sensible to intellectual objects. Let us always
proceed slowly from one sensible notion to another. In general, let us never substitute the
sign for the thing, except when it is impossible for us to show the thing.'"[125]

(e) The fourth period of education begins at fifteen, the period of adolescence. At this time,
"Émile will know nothing of history, nothing of humanity, nothing of art and literature, nothing
of God; but he will know a manual trade." Rousseau himself says, "Émile has but little knowledge,
but that which he has is really his own; he knows nothing by halves." He has a mind which,
"if not instructed, is at least capable of being instructed." The remaining work to be done
in the education of Émile consists in training the sentiments of affection, the moral and the
religious sentiments. The feeling of love for his fellow-beings is now to be cultivated. The
error of this is shown by Compayré, who says, "For fifteen years Rousseau leaves the heart
of Émile unoccupied.... Rousseau made the mistake of thinking that a child can be taught to
love as he is taught to read and write, and that lessons could be given to Émile in feeling
just as lessons are given to him in geometry."

In morals Rousseau taught that the first duty of every one is to take care of himself; we must
love ourselves first of all, and find our greatest interest in those things that best serve
us. We must seek that which is useful to us and avoid what harms us, instead of loving our
enemies and doing good to those that hate us, as taught by Christ. We must love those who love
us, while we must avoid and hate those who hate us.

As to religion, Émile does not yet know at fifteen that he has a soul, and Rousseau thinks
that perhaps the eighteenth year is still too early for him to learn that fact; for, if he
tries to learn it before the proper time, he runs the risk of never really knowing that he
possesses an immortal soul. But as religion furnishes a check upon the passions, it should
be taught to the boy when eighteen years of age. He is not to be instructed in the doctrines
of any particular sect, but should be allowed to select that religious belief which most strongly
appeals to his reason. Modern investigation has proven the utter fallacy of Rousseau's teachings
in this respect. Indeed, it seems to be established that the most orthodox period of the child's
life occurs before the fifteenth year, the time when Rousseau would begin his religious training.
Conformable to this truth, many sects confirm children and receive them into the church at
or before the fifteenth year.[126]

(f) Having brought Émile to the period of life at which he is to marry, Rousseau proceeds to
create in Sophie the ideal wife. It is not the education of women as such that Rousseau discusses,
but their education with reference to man. He says, "The whole education of women should be
relative to men; to please them, to be useful to them, to make themselves honored and loved
by them, to educate the young, to care for the older, to advise them, to console them, to make
life agreeable and sweet to them,--these are the duties of women in every age." Consequently
the sole instruction woman needs is in household duties, in care of children, in ways to add
to the happiness of her husband. Her own happiness or development does not enter into Rousseau's
scheme. This is the weakest part of his educational theory. The world is gradually awakening
to the fact that woman's intellectual capacity is not inferior to that of man, and the prejudices
of ages are slowly disappearing.

Rousseau's pedagogical theories made a profound impression throughout Europe, and though often
inconsistent, extravagant, and visionary, they set the world to thinking of the child and his
psychological development. A new direction was thus given to educational theory and practice,
and upon this basis Pestalozzi, Froebel, and other modern educators have built. Rousseau must,
therefore, be reckoned among the greatest pedagogical writers of modern times. Karl Schmidt
pronounces the "Émile" "a Platonic republic of education,--nevertheless, Rousseau's work is
a great universal achievement, the importance of which Goethe recognizes when he calls the
book the nature-gospel of education."[127]

FOOTNOTES:

[122] "History of Pedagogy," p. 286.

[123] "Schoolmaster in Literature," pp. 40-63.

[124] "Geschichte der Pädagogik," p. 127. See also Compayré, "History of Pedagogy," p. 286.

[125] "History of Pedagogy," p. 298.

[126] See address of Professor Earl Barnes, Proceedings of the National Educational Association
for 1893, p. 765. Also article by Dr. G. Stanley Hall in Pedagogical Seminary, Vol. I, p. 196.
Note also the religious development of Laura Bridgman.

[127] "Geschichte der Pädagogik," Vol. III, p. 559.

CHAPTER XXXVII

MODERN EDUCATORS (Continued)

BASEDOW[128] (1723-1790)

The name of Basedow is connected with what is known as the Philanthropinic experiment. He was
born at Hamburg, his father being a wigmaker. Not being appreciated in his home, the son ran
away and bound himself out as servant in the household of a gentleman. Through the influence
of this man, who discovered his extraordinary abilities, he was reconciled with his father,
and returned home. He was sent to the Gymnasium at Hamburg, and afterward, through the assistance
of friends, went to the university of Leipsic, where he studied theology. Here he lived a rather
wild life, and upon the completion of his studies was found too unorthodox to take orders.
Accordingly, he became tutor (Hauslehrer) to the children of Herr von Quaalen. In this position
he showed great aptitude and originality in the instruction of children. His method of teaching
included conversation, adaptation of play, and use of the woods, fields, plants, birds, and
other works of nature.

"Owing to his original manner of teaching, Basedow obtained the best results. In teaching Latin,
for instance, he began by pointing to objects and giving their Latin names. His pupils, in
a very short time, learned to speak Latin almost as well as their native language. Basedow
himself learned French, after the same manner, of the governess of the house."[129]

He next became Professor of Morals and Polite Literature at Soröe, Denmark, where his unorthodox
writings again led him into trouble. He was removed to the Gymnasium at Altona. Rousseau's
"Émile" produced a profound impression upon him, as it had done upon many other thinkers in
Europe, and many of his theories are probably traceable to that book. Basedow was convinced
of the need of a radical reform in the schools of Germany, and set himself the task of effecting
it. Bernsdorf, the Danish minister of education, became interested in his writings, and, together
with several of the crowned heads of Europe, assisted him in bringing out his "Elementary Book"
(Elementarbuch), which foreshadowed his plans. It was modeled after the "Orbis Pictus" of Comenius.
The interest of these distinguished patrons shows how urgent was the need of an educational
reform. Basedow also made the acquaintance of the great literary men of the time, chief among
whom was Goethe. In temperament he was misanthropic and peevish, owing in part, doubtless,
to ill health brought on by overwork and worry.

=The Philanthropin.=--Indirectly through Goethe, Prince Leopold of Dessau was attracted to
Basedow. The prince determined to found an institute in which the plans of the great educator
could be carried out. The institute, called the Philanthropin, was established, and became
celebrated throughout Europe. Quick says: "Then, for the first and probably for the last time,
a school was started in which use and wont were entirely set aside, and everything done on
'improved principles.' Such a bold enterprise attracted the attention of all interested in
education, far and near; but it would seem that few parents considered their own children vilia
corpora (vile bodies), on whom experiments might be made for the public good. When, in May,
1776, a number of schoolmasters and others collected from different parts of Germany, and even
from beyond Germany, to be present by Basedow's invitation at an examination of the children,
they found only thirteen pupils in the Philanthropin, including Basedow's own son and daughter."[130]

The main purpose of the Philanthropin was to give Basedow an opportunity to carry out his new
educational ideas. A prominent feature of the undertaking was that it should be a model institute
"for the preparation of teachers in the theory and practice of the new education." The institution,
was to be a "school of true humanity. Its name was to give evidence of its object--the education
of youth in accordance with the laws of nature and humanity." In it Basedow was to exemplify
his ideas of education. The best of teachers were to be employed, the best appliances furnished,
and the instruction was to be founded entirely on sense-perception. The Philanthropin was opened
in 1774, and at once awoke universal interest.

But this school, conceived in love for humanity, founded with the noblest of purposes, and
exemplifying much of sound educational philosophy, was destined to be shortlived. It was abandoned
in less than twenty years. This downfall was owing to several causes, some of which may be
mentioned. 1. The institution was purely secular in character, and the world was not yet ready
for this. Parents were suspicious of a non-sectarian school, the idea of which was so contrary
to that of the traditional church-school. Hence the small number of pupils in the Philanthropin,
even at the height of its prosperity under Basedow.

2. Altogether too many subjects were included in the course. Quick outlines the work undertaken
as follows: "(1) Man. Here he would use the pictures of foreigners and wild men, also a skeleton,
a hand in spirits, and other objects still more appropriate to a surgical museum. (2) Animals.
Only such animals are to be depicted as it is useful to know about, because there is much that
ought to be known, and a good method of instruction must shorten rather than increase the hours
of study. Articles of commerce made from the animals may also be exhibited. (3) Trees and plants.
Only the most important are to be selected. Of these the seeds also must be shown, and cubes
formed of the different woods. Gardeners' and farmers' implements are to be explained. (4)
Mineral and chemical substances. (5) Mathematical instruments for weighing and measuring; also
the air pump, siphon, and the like. The form and motion of the earth are to be explained with
globes and maps. (6) Trades. The use of various tools is to be taught. (7) History. This is
to be illustrated by engravings of historical events. (8) Commerce. Samples of commodities
may be produced. (9) The younger children should be shown pictures of familiar objects about
the house and its surroundings."[131]

There are very many suggestive ideas in Basedow's course, which have been adopted in modern
schools; but the trouble was that he demanded too much, and he himself acknowledged later in
life that "he had exaggerated notions of the amount boys were capable of learning," and accordingly
his curriculum was very much shortened.

3. Another reason for the failure of the Philanthropin was Basedow's indiscriminate condemnation
of everything that had been done before, and of all who failed to agree with him. This awoke
the antagonism of teachers everywhere. All reformers are apt to be radical in their own views
and denunciatory of the opinions of others. Had there been less to criticise in Basedow himself,
he would doubtless have triumphed over all opposition. But his educational theories and practices
did not produce the results which he predicted for them, and his opponents were quick to mark
every weakness that his system betrayed.

4. More fatal still, perhaps, was the unfitness of Basedow for the directorship of the institution.
He was capricious, lacking in self-command and proper balance, visionary, and often suspicious
of the teachers under his direction. Such causes prevented the experiment at Dessau from fulfilling
the bright hopes of Basedow and the friends who assisted him in starting the enterprise.

Basedow retired after four years' leadership, and the institution continued for a few years
with varying success, under such men as Campe, Salzmann, and Matthison. Yet, when the Philanthropin
was closed in 1793, the teachers, dispersed throughout Germany, carried the new gospel wherever
they went, arousing fresh interest in education and doing much for its advancement.

Quick thinks that Basedow's system possessed great merits "for children, say, between the ages
of six and ten." Kant was greatly disappointed at the result. Rousseau's "Émile" had awakened
his interest in education, and he looked to the experiment at Dessau for an exemplification
of the new ideals. His estimate of the work accomplished is as follows: "Experience shows that
often in our experiments we get quite opposite results from what we had anticipated. We see,
too, that since experiments are necessary, it is not in the power of one generation to form
a complete plan of education. The only experimental school which, to some extent, made a beginning
in clearing the road, was the Institute at Dessau. This praise at least must be allowed, notwithstanding
the many faults which could be brought up against it--faults which are sure to show themselves
when we come to the results of our experiments, and which merely prove that fresh experiments
are necessary. It was the only school in which teachers had liberty to work according to their
own methods and schemes, and where they were in free communication both among themselves and
with all learned men throughout Germany."[132]

=Writings.=--Basedow's chief educational writing is the book called the "Elementary." The "Book
of Method" was the first to appear, and was really the first part of the "Elementary." Concerning
the "Book of Method," Lang says, "This famous manual was undoubtedly the greatest of Basedow's
educational writings.... It was full of valuable suggestions. It set educators to thinking,
and has been a powerful motor in bringing about a change in school instruction."

The "Elementary," containing Basedow's complete scheme of education, has been called the "Orbis
Pictus of the eighteenth century." The general opinion is that Basedow obtained the root ideas
of this work from Comenius, Locke, and Rousseau. There is but little that is original in his
pedagogical principles, but he made an effort to carry out the progressive teachings which
had entered into the theories of advanced thinkers but had not been worked into practice. Still,
the problem of education became through Basedow better understood, and he is deserving of a
place among the great educators of the world for his experiment at Dessau toward the solution
of that problem. The experiment was crude, but it has borne fruit in modern schools and their
methods, in better school buildings and apparatus, in trained teachers, in milder forms of
discipline, in the improved study of nature, and in a broader and more philanthropic view of
man's duty to his fellow-man.

=Jacotot (1770-1840).=--Perhaps the most famous of the French educators and writers of this
period was Jacotot, for a time professor of languages and mathematics at Paris, and later professor
of the French language and literature at Löwen. His principal educational work is entitled
"Universal Instruction." Jacotot is best known for his paradoxes, two of the most famous of
which are, "Everything is in Everything," and "All men have equal intelligence." But his method
rather than his paradoxical statements has proved his greatest contribution to educational
progress. His method consisted in the selection of fundamental examples or types, having the
pupils commit them to memory, repeating this work daily, amplifying it, deriving the rules
or principles in relation to it, until the mastery in all directions is complete. Thus in studying
Latin a page of Caesar might be taken and drilled upon until the style, rules of grammar, and
meaning of the passage are mastered; in mathematics the fundamental rules,--the Pythagorean
theorem must be repeated daily; in geography begin with a map and master all its details. Gain
a complete understanding of one subject before taking up another. His method attracted much
attention.

FOOTNOTES:

[128] Special References, Williams, "History of Modern Education"; Quick, "Educational Reformers,"
pp. 144, 288; Lang, "Basedow" (Teachers' Manuals, No. 16).

[129] Lang, "Basedow," p. 6.

[130] "Educational Reformers," p. 150.

[131] "Educational Reformers," p. 151.

[132] Kant, "Ueber Pädagogik."

CHAPTER XXXVIII

MODERN EDUCATORS (Continued)

PESTALOZZI (1746-1827)

