At this time I knew no literary men. A few I had met when living with my mother, but that had
been now so long ago that all such acquaintance had died out. I knew who they were as far as
a man could get such knowledge from the papers of the day, and felt myself as in part belonging
to the guild, through my mother, and in some degree by my own unsuccessful efforts. But it
was not probable that any one would admit my claim;--nor on this occasion did I make any claim.
I stated my name and official position, and the fact that opportunities had been given me of
seeing the poorhouses in Ireland, and of making myself acquainted with the circumstances of
the time. Would a series of letters on the subject be accepted by the Examiner? The great man,
who loomed very large to me, was pleased to say that if the letters should recommend themselves
by their style and matter, if they were not too long, and if,--every reader will know how on
such occasions an editor will guard himself,--if this and if that, they should be favourably
entertained.  They were favourably entertained,--if printing and publication be favourable
entertainment. But I heard no more of them. The world in Ireland did not declare that the Government
had at last been adequately defended, nor did the treasurer of the Examiner send me a cheque
in return.

Whether there ought to have been a cheque I do not even yet know. A man who writes a single
letter to a newspaper, of course, is not paid for it,--nor for any number of letters on some
point personal to himself. I have since written sets of letters to newspapers, and have been
paid for them; but then I have bargained for a price. On this occasion I had hopes; but they
never ran high, and I was not much disappointed. I have no copy now of those letters, and could
not refer to them without much trouble; nor do I remember what I said. But I know that I did
my best in writing them.

When my historical novel failed, as completely as had its predecessors, the two Irish novels,
I began to ask myself whether, after all, that was my proper line. I had never thought of questioning
the justice of the verdict expressed against me. The idea that I was the unfortunate owner
of unappreciated genius never troubled me. I did not look at the books after they were published,
feeling sure that they had been, as it were, damned with good reason. But still I was clear
in my mind that I would not lay down my pen. Then and therefore I determined to change my hand,
and to attempt a play. I did attempt the play, and in 1850 I wrote a comedy, partly in blank
verse, and partly in prose, called The Noble Jilt. The plot I afterwards used in a novel called
Can You Forgive Her? I believe that I did give the best of my intellect to the play, and I
must own that when it was completed it pleased me much. I copied it, and re-copied it, touching
it here and touching it there, and then sent it to my very old friend, George Bartley, the
actor, who had when I was in London been stage-manager of one of the great theatres, and who
would, I thought, for my own sake and for my mother's, give me the full benefit of his professional
experience.

I have now before me the letter which he wrote to me,--a letter which I have read a score of
times. It was altogether condemnatory. "When I commenced," he said, "I had great hopes of your
production. I did not think it opened dramatically, but that might have been remedied." I knew
then that it was all over. But, as my old friend warmed to the subject, the criticism became
stronger and stronger, till my ears tingled. At last came the fatal blow. "As to the character
of your heroine, I felt at a loss how to describe it, but you have done it for me in the last
speech of Madame Brudo." Madame Brudo was the heroine's aunt. "'Margaret, my child, never play
the jilt again; 'tis a most unbecoming character. Play it with what skill you will, it meets
but little sympathy.' And this, be assured, would be its effect upon an audience. So that I
must reluctantly add that, had I been still a manager, The Noble Jilt is not a play I could
have recommended for production." This was a blow that I did feel. The neglect of a book is
a disagreeable fact which grows upon an author by degrees. There is no special moment of agony,--no
stunning violence of condemnation. But a piece of criticism such as this, from a friend, and
from a man undoubtedly capable of forming an opinion, was a blow in the face! But I accepted
the judgment loyally, and said not a word on the subject to any one. I merely showed the letter
to my wife, declaring my conviction, that it must be taken as gospel. And as critical gospel
it has since been accepted. In later days I have more than once read the play, and I know that
he was right.  The dialogue, however, I think to be good, and I doubt whether some of the scenes
be not the brightest and best work I ever did.

Just at this time another literary project loomed before my eyes, and for six or eight months
had considerable size. I was introduced to Mr. John Murray, and proposed to him to write a
handbook for Ireland.  I explained to him that I knew the country better than most other people,
perhaps better than any other person, and could do it well. He asked me to make a trial of
my skill, and to send him a certain number of pages, undertaking to give me an answer within
a fortnight after he should have received my work.  I came back to Ireland, and for some weeks
I laboured very hard. I "did" the city of Dublin, and the county of Kerry, in which lies the
lake scenery of Killarney, and I "did" the route from Dublin to Killarney, altogether completing
nearly a quarter of the proposed volume. The roll of MS. was sent to Albemarle Street,--but
was never opened. At the expiration of nine months from the date on which it reached that time-honoured
spot it was returned without a word, in answer to a very angry letter from myself.  I insisted
on having back my property,--and got it.  I need hardly say that my property has never been
of the slightest use to me. In all honesty I think that had he been less dilatory, John Murray
would have got a very good Irish Guide at a cheap rate.

