CHAMBERS' EDINBURGH JOURNAL

  CONDUCTED BY WILLIAM AND ROBERT CHAMBERS, EDITORS OF 'CHAMBERS'S
  INFORMATION FOR THE PEOPLE,' 'CHAMBERS'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE,' &c.

  No. 419. NEW SERIES. SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1852. PRICE 1-1/2 d.

THE LOST AGES.

My friends, have you read Elia? If so, follow me, walking in the shadow of his mild presence,
while I recount to you my vision of the Lost Ages. I am neither single nor unblessed with offspring,
yet, like Charles Lamb, I have had my 'dream-children.' Years have flown over me since I stood
a bride at the altar. My eyes are dim and failing, and my hairs are silver-white. My real children
of flesh and blood have become substantial men and women, carving their own fortunes, and catering
for their own tastes in the matter of wives and husbands, leaving their old mother, as nature
ordereth, to the stillness and repose fitted for her years. Understand, this is not meant to
imply that the fosterer of their babyhood, the instructor of their childhood, the guide of
their youth, is forsaken or neglected by those who have sprung up to maturity beneath her eye.
No; I am blessed in my children. Living apart, I yet see them often; their joys, their cares
are mine. Not a Sabbath dawns but it finds me in the midst of them; not a holiday or a festival
of any kind is noted in the calendar of their lives, but Grandmamma is the first to be sent
for. Still, of necessity, I pass much of my time alone; and old age is given to reverie quite
as much as youth. I can remember a time--long, long ago--when in the twilight of a summer evening
it was a luxury to sit apart with closed eyes; and, heedless of the talk that went on in the
social circle from which I was withdrawn, indulge in all sorts of fanciful visions. Then my
dream-people were all full-grown men and women. I do not recollect that I ever thought about
children until I possessed some of my own. Those waking visions were very sweet--sweeter than
the realities of life that followed; but they were neither half so curious nor half so wonderful
as the dreams that sometimes haunt me now. The imagination of the old is not less lively than
that of the young: it is only less original. A youthful fancy will create more new images;
the mind of age requires materials to build with: these supplied, the combinations it is capable
of forming are endless. And so were born my dream-children.

Has it never occurred to you, mothers and fathers, to wonder what has become of your children's
lost ages? Look at your little boy of five years old. Is he at all, in any respect, the same
breathing creature that you beheld three years back? I think not. Whither, then, has the sprite
vanished? In some hidden fairy nook, in some mysterious cloud-land he must exist still. Again,
in your slim-formed girl of eight years, you look in vain for the sturdy elf of five. Gone?
No; that cannot be--'a thing of beauty is a joy for ever.' Close your eyes: you have her there!
A breeze-like, sportive, buoyant thing; a thing of breathing, laughing, unmistakable life;
she is mirrored on your retina as plainly as ever was dancing sunbeam on a brook. The very
trick of her lip--of her eye; the mischief-smile, the sidelong saucy glance,

             'That seems to say,
  I know you love me, Mr Grey;'

is it not traced there--all, every line, as clear as when it brightened the atmosphere about
you in the days that are no more? To be sure it is; and being so, the thing must exist--somewhere.

I never was more fully possessed with this conviction than once during the winter of last year.
It was Christmas-eve. I was sitting alone, in my old armchair, and had been looking forward
to the fast-coming festival-day with many mingled thoughts--some tender, but regretful; others
hopeful, yet sad; some serious, and even solemn. As I laid my head back and sat thus with closed
eyes, listening to the church-clock as it struck the hour, I could not but feel that I was
passing--very slowly and gently it is true--towards a time when the closing of the grave would
shut out even that sound so familiar to my ear; and when other and more precious sounds of
life-human voices, dearer than all else, would cease to have any meanings for me--and even
their very echoes be hushed in the silence of the one long sleep. Following the train of association,
it was natural that I should recur to the hour when that same church's bells had chimed my
wedding-peal. I seemed to hear their music once again; and other music sweeter still--the music
of young vows that 'kept the word of promise to the ear, and broke it' not 'to the hope.' Next
in succession came the recollection of my children. I seemed to lose sight of their present
identity, and to be carried away in thought to times and scenes far back in my long-departed
youth, when they were growing up around my knees--beautiful forms of all ages, from the tender
nursling of a single year springing with outstretched arms into my bosom, to the somewhat rough
but ingenuous boy of ten. As my inner eye traced their different outlines, and followed them
in their graceful growth from year to year, my heart was seized with a sudden and irresistible
longing to hold fast these beloved but passing images of the brain. What joy, I thought, would
it be to transfix the matchless beauty which had wrought itself thus into the visions of my
old age! to preserve for ever, unchanging, every varied phase of that material but marvellous
structure which the glorious human soul had animated and informed through all its progressive
stages from the child to the man!

Scarcely was the thought framed when a dull, heavy weight seemed to press upon my closed eyelids.
I now saw more clearly even than before my children's images in the different stages of their
being. But I saw these, and these alone, as they stood rooted to the ground, with a stony fixedness
in their eyes: every other object grew dim before me. The living faces and full-grown forms
which until now had mingled with and played their part among my younger phantoms, altogether
disappeared. I had no longer any eyes, any soul, but for this my new spectre-world. Life, and
the things of life, had lost their interest; and I knew of nothing, conceived of nothing, but
those still, inanimate forms from which the informing soul had long since passed away.

And now that the longing of my heart was answered, was I satisfied? For a time I gazed, and
drew a deep delight from the gratification of my vain and impious craving. But at length the
still, cold presence of forms no longer of this earth began to oppress me. I grew cold and
numb beneath their moveless aspect; and constant gazing upon eyes lighted up by no varying
expression, pressed upon my tired senses with a more than nightmare weight. I felt a sort of
dull stagnation through every limb, which held me bound where I sat, pulseless and moveless
as the phantoms on which I gazed.

As I wrestled with the feeling that oppressed me, striving in vain to break the bonds of that
strange fascination, under the pressure of which I surely felt that I must perish--a soft voice,
proceeding from whence I knew not, broke upon my ear. 'You have your desire,' it said gently;
'why, then, struggle thus? Why writhe under the magic of that joy you have yourself called
up? Are they not here before you, the Lost Ages whose beauty and whose grace you would perpetuate?
What would you more? O mortal!'

'But these forms have no life,' I gasped--'no pulsating, breathing soul!'

'No,' replied the same still, soft voice; 'these forms belong to the things of the past. In
God's good time they breathed the breath of life; they had then a being and a purpose on this
earth. Their day has departed--their work is done.'

