In 1798, Bass obtained from Governor Hunter a six-oared whale boat, six men, and six weeks
provisions: with this outfit he proceeded along the eastern coast of New Holland, occasionally
landing and obtaining supplies, which enabled him to prolong his absence to eleven weeks. He
continued his course until the agitation of the water convinced him that the open sea was not
far distant: he discovered Western Port, and a country of great attraction. He explored six
hundred miles of coast, one-half of which was hitherto unknown; an enterprise beyond example
in nautical adventure, and entitling him to that renown which belongs to his name.

To test this discovery, the governor authorised Lieutenant Flinders and Mr. Bass to sail through
the strait in the Norfolk, a colonial sloop, of 25 tons. Twelve weeks only were allowed for
the voyage, which compelled the navigators to content themselves with a cursory survey.

In October, 1798, they left Port Jackson: after spending some time among the islands which
crowd the straits, they sighted Cape Portland, a name given it in honor of the Duke of Portland,
then secretary for the colonies; thence they passed Port Waterhouse, so called after the captain
of the Reliance. The first important discovery was Port Dalrymple, called after the hydrographer
of the admiralty, Alexander Dalrymple.[10] Green Isle, Western Arm, Middle Island, Whirlpool
Reach, Swan Point, and Crescent Shore, preserve memorials of the visit in their designations.

They reported Port Dalrymple an excellent place for refreshments: black swans, whose quills
covered the beach in countless thousands; kangaroos, of the forest kind; flocks of ducks and
teal, and mussels and oysters, were found in abundance.

Proceeding along the coast, they came to a headland, which they called Circular Head, from
its resemblance to a Christmas cake. They now approached the solution of the question which
had dictated their voyage. They remarked a long swell from the south-west breaking on the western
shore: they hailed it with joy and mutual gratulation, and passed in safety the clustering
islets in their course: the extreme north-west they called Cape Grim. Proceeding round the
western coast, they observed the mountains noticed by Tasman when he visited the island, which
in memory of his vessels they called Mount Heemskirk and Mount Zeehaan. They named Point Hibbs
after the master of the Norfolk. The discoveries of Flinders here may be said to terminate,
until he proceeded up the Derwent.

The utility of the strait was highly rated. It secured perpetual renown to Bass, whose name
it bears: this was given by Governor Hunter at the recommendation of Flinders, whose candour
is always conspicuous in awarding the palm of discovery to those to whom it is due! Not only
does the strait curtail a voyage from the Cape by four degrees, but vessels avoid the winds
which obstruct navigation round the South Cape and Cape Pillar of Van Diemen's Land, which
prolong the passage several days; a point of great importance in the conveyance of passengers.

The Norfolk steered into the Derwent by the chart of Hayes. Both Flinders and Bass observe,
with indignation, how creeks are magnified into rivers, coves into bays, and a few acres into
plains: as Risdon River, Prince of Wales's Bay, and King George's Plains. They corrected his
definitions, but left him the honors of discovery. Flinders proceeded to Herdsman's Cove, which
he so distinguished for its extensive pasture and plentiful waters.

Bass depicts the Derwent as a dull and lifeless stream, respectable only because the Tasmanian
rivers are insignificant![11] To a bay they entered on the western side of Tasman's Peninsula,
they gave the name of their vessel, which was built at Norfolk Island, of the pine peculiar
to that place.

Flinders continued, after the departure of Bass, to prosecute researches on the coast of New
Holland, until the Reliance returned home. In that vessel his charts were conveyed, and were
published. On a plan being offered by Sir Joseph Banks for completing the survey, the Investigator
was placed under the command of Flinders, who was promoted to the rank of commander, furnished
with a chosen crew, and attended by Westall, a painter, and Brown, a naturalist whose collection
added largely to his department of science. Flinders received a passport from the French government,
expressed with the usual amplitude. It inhibited all vessels of war from molesting the Investigator,
and gave right of entry to all ports subject to France, for refitting or refreshment, on condition
that nothing were done hostile to that power. This protection was demanded by Lord Hawksbury,
of M. Otto, the celebrated representative of the Republic in England. Flinders had proposed
to visit Van Diemen's Land, but had been partly anticipated by the Lady Nelson, sent from England
to be employed as tender to the Investigator, and fitted with a keel suited to shallow waters.
Brown, the naturalist, remained some time after the expedition was interrupted. He wandered
on the banks of the Derwent and Tamar, collecting shrubs and flowers during a stay of several
months; and although some specimens of plants were lost in the Porpoise, not one out of 3,900
species was wanting.[12]

In June, 1803, Flinders passed the north coast of Van Diemen's Land: eighteen men were lying
in their hammocks almost hopeless of recovery, some of whom died before the vessel entered
Port Jackson, and several afterwards. A survey was instantly held, and the Investigator was
condemned: the hull was found rotten, both plank and timbers, and it was declared that reparation
was impossible. On inspecting her condition, Flinders expressed great astonishment, and remarked
that a hard gale must have sent her to the bottom.[13]

The volumes of Captain Flinders, though of vast scientific worth, are not greatly interesting
to the general reader, except when he tells of his trials, which were many. His work was patronised
by the admiralty, and he had the prospect of reward; but on the day of publication, fame ceased
to be valuable to him,[14]--he cast that anchor which is never weighed.

A long imprisonment in the Isle of France, and the mental anxiety inseparable from a strong
sense of injustice, it is said, destroyed him. His case may be told in few words: the Investigator
was condemned as unfit for service, and Flinders embarked at Port Jackson on board the Porpoise,
in company with the Cato and the Bridgewater. When passing through Torres Straits, at between
eight and nine knots, they saw breakers a-head. Before signals could be made, the other vessels
were seen hastening to the same destruction. They hauled to the wind across each other; a collision
seemed inevitable: a death-like silence prevailed during the awful crisis; but happily they
passed off side by side. Instantly, however, the Cato struck on the reef, and was totally lost.
All hands were preserved, except three boys; of these, one spent the night on a spar, bewailing
his unhappy lot: four times he had embarked in different vessels, and each time had been wrecked;
this was the last, for before morning he disappeared. The Bridgewater was yet safe: she was
seen at dawn; but while awaiting her help, the captain, with a selfishness happily not common--without
even sending a boat to pick up a cast-away--proceeded on his voyage.[15] He reached India in
safety; sailed for Europe, and was never heard of more: the people he had abandoned were all
rescued.

This was effected by Flinders. A cutter was built and provisioned from the stores saved on
the reef: in this, which he called the Hope, he set out for Port Jackson, 750 miles distant.
There he obtained the assistance of two vessels, beside the Cumberland, a colonial schooner
of 29 tons. The inhabitants, unsolicited, sent many presents to the sufferers, who soon hailed
the arrival of Flinders with rapturous cheers.

Having performed this duty, he proceeded towards England in the Cumberland, with seven men
and three officers; but finding that she was unable to bear the voyage, he resolved to confide
in the honor of the French, and present his passport at the Mauritius. There he was detained
a prisoner six years; first charged with imposture, then treated as a spy; and when these imputations
were refuted, he was accused of violating his passport. The French had found in his journal
a wish dotted down to examine the state of that settlement, written when a stranger to the
renewal of war. Some doubt seems to have been really entertained, for the moment, respecting
him; but his long detention after his release was promised, was ascribed to the ambition of
Napoleon, and the dishonesty of the French Institute, who from Flinders' papers were appropriating
to Baudin the honor of discoveries he never himself claimed.

Before the Investigator left England, the Geographe and Naturaliste, under Captains Baudin
and Hamelin, visited this island. During a pause in the hostilities of Europe, the French government
obtained from Mr. Addington, then premier, a safe conduct for this expedition. The terms granted
entitled them to freedom from search; to supplies in any English colony, notwithstanding the
contingency of war: it being well said by the French, that the promoters of scientific knowledge
were the common benefactors of mankind. While Flinders was prosecuting his voyage he met Baudin
on the coast of New Holland, at a place thence called Encounter Bay. The interview was civil,
rather than cordial; both nations were competitors in science, and rivals are rarely kind.
Yet the suffering of the French may be mentioned with pity: of twenty-three scientific men
who accompanied the expedition, three only survived. The vessels were ill-provisioned, the
water corrupt, and they encountered fearful tempests, in attempting to circumnavigate this island.

Captain Baudin had been directed by his government to examine the eastern coast of Van Diemen's
Land, the discoveries of D'Entrecasteaux, and the channels and rivers of the coast. The surgeon
of the Geographe, Monge, fell by an attack of the natives, and was buried on the spot which
bears his name.[16] The French surveyed the eastern coast, and finally determined the position
of the Frederick Henry Bay of Tasman. They examined the intricacies which had escaped the observation
of earlier navigators, who erroneously numbered the islands on their charts, and thus overlooked
the bays. They coasted between the main and the Schoutens, and gave the name of Fleurieu to
the Oyster Bay of Cox. They then passed through a strait heretofore unnoticed, which divides
the Schoutens and Freycinet's Peninsula. Their survey was minute, and sometimes three boats
were employed in different directions. The French vessels parted company, and the Naturaliste,
after a long search for her consort, proceeded to New South Wales.

Baudin, of the Geographe, was far more unfortunate. Having touched at his land of Napoleon,
instead of returning through Bass's Strait to Port Jackson, he resolved to pass the south cape
of Van Diemen's Land. Throughout the passage he experienced the most fearful storms: the darkness
at night often prevented the execution of naval manoeuvres, and the vessel was drenched with
water. The condition of the crew was terrible; "cries of agony made the air ring:" four only,
including the officers of the watch, were able to keep the decks. After beating about Port
Jackson for several days, a boat appeared which had been dispatched by the governor, who saw
the French were unable to manage the vessel. By a change of diet, they speedily recovered.

When at Port Jackson, Flinders showed his discoveries to the French, who admitted the justice
of his prior claim, but with little sincerity.

M. Baudin died: Captain Hamilin, of the Naturaliste, returned to the Mauritius. He eulogised
the conduct of the colonists to extravagance;[17] but it is mortifying to find, that soon after,
having captured a small English settlement, he burned the property he could not carry off;
and invited upon deck the ladies, his prisoners, to witness the devastations of their late
peaceful dwellings.

The misfortunes of the distinguished navigators, whose success has been recorded, fully equalled
their fame. The fate of Cook belongs to a story which mingles with our early remembrance. A
child need scarcely be told, that after a career eminently glorious to his country and profession,
while attempting to restrain his men who were firing to protect him, he fell by the dagger
of a savage.

His colleague, Captain Clerke, who attended him through all his expeditions, did not long survive
him. Resolved to complete his instructions, he remained in the neighbourhood of Kamschatka,
which hastened the crisis of a consumption. He was buried beneath a tree at the harbour of
St. Peter and St. Paul, and an inscription pointed to his grave.[18] This was found by M. Perouse
defaced, who restored it. On his arrival at Botany Bay, he interred the naturalist of his expedition:
the memorial he set up was destroyed by the natives, and Governor Phillip repaid, by the substitution
of another, the honor done to his own countryman.[19]

De L'Angle, the companion of Perouse, with eleven officers and men, lost their lives by a misunderstanding
at the Navigators' Isles: the manner of his own death may be inferred from the native tradition.[20]

The end of D'Entrecasteaux and Huon, was hardly less melancholy: both commanders were buried
by their crews; the admiral at Louisiade, and Huon at New Caledonia. The vessels were detained
by the Dutch at Java, and many of the seamen died in captivity. There the calamities of their
country became known to them: some sided with the royalists, others with the jacobins, but
few regained their native land; among these, however, was Labillardière.[21]

The fate of Captain Flinders is already told; that of Dr. Bass is involved in obscurity. A
rumour that he was alive in 1812, in South America, was circulated in London.[22] In the colonies
it was reported, that the vessel in his charge foundered at sea; others alleged that he attempted
a contraband trade in the Spanish colonies, was taken prisoner, and with his companions sent
to the quicksilver mines, and there died.[23]

The whale-boat of Bass, which first swept the waters of the strait, was long preserved at Port
Jackson. Of its keel snuff boxes were wrought, and regarded as valuable relics. A fragment,
mounted with silver, engraven with the particulars of the passage, was presented to M. Baudin,
as a memorial of the man whose example had stimulated colonial discovery.

Flinders[24] predicted that the name of Bass would be conspicuous among the benefactors of
mankind: the glory of his own will enlarge with the value of his discoveries. They resulted
not from accident, which may give reputation to success without merit, but were the reward
of prudent enthusiasm. A small community cannot, indeed, rear a monument worthy the destinies
of their names: private memorials may be perishable, like the sympathies which inscribed them,
but a future and opulent era will display the moral grandeur of their enterprise, and posterity
will pay public honors to their fame.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: The following is its title:--Journal of Discovery, by me, Abel Jans Tasman, of
a Voyage from Batavia for making discoveries of the unknown South Land, 1642.--Burney's Chronological
History, 1813.]

[Footnote 2: Discovered in the year 1505, by Don Pedro Mascarequas, a Spanish navigator: he
gave it the name of "Cerné." It was uninhabited, and destitute of every species of quadruped.
In 1598 it was visited by the Dutch Admiral Van Neck, who finding it unoccupied gave it its
present name, in honor of Maurice, Prince of Holland. In 1601 a Frenchman was found on the
island by a Dutch captain. He had been left by an English vessel, and had remained two years
subsisting on turtle and dates: his understanding was impaired by his long solitude. The Dutch
had a small fort, when it was visited by Tasman, which is represented in the drawings that
illustrated his journal. The Dutch afterwards abandoned the island, and it has passed through
many changes, until it was conquered by Great Britain.--Grant's History of the Mauritius.]

[Footnote 3: Probably their fires: had they seen them, they could not have fallen into error
respecting their height.]

[Footnote 4: "The same romantic little rock, with its fringe of grey ironstone shingle, still
shelters itself under the castellated cliffs of trap rock, on its northern and southern horns;
embosomed in its innermost recesses by a noble forest, whose green shades encroach upon the
verge of the ocean. It is less than half-a-mile across, and nearer its northern than its southern
extremity, the sea has cast up a key of large grey rounded ironstone, which interrupts the
equal curve of the beach, and doubtless marks the spot where the ship's carpenter swam ashore."--Gell's
Remarks on the First Discovery: Tasmanian Journal, vol. ii. p. 327.]

[Footnote 5: Cook's Voyages.]

[Footnote 6: A folio edition of Cook's Voyages, published in the last century, at the "King's
Arms," Paternoster-row, London, contains the following sentence, which, as perhaps the first
example of invention in reference to the country, may deserve remembrance:--"Stately groves,
rivers, and lawns, of vast extent." "Thickets full of birds of the most beautiful plumage,
of various notes, whose melody was truly enchanting. It was now the time (29th January!) when
nature poured forth her luxuriant exuberance, to clothe this country with rich variety."--Vol.
ii. p. 425.]

[Footnote 7: Voyage of Perouse (translation). London, 1799.

Letters buried in a bottle, beneath a tree in Adventure Bay, were found by Captain Bunker,
of the Venus, in 1809, to which he was directed by the words, still legible, "dig underneath;"
and supposed, from his imperfect knowledge of the language, that they were left by Perouse.
In this he was mistaken: they were deposited by D'Entrecasteaux, at his second visit. Bent's
Almanack, 1828, adopted Bunker's mistake: it was copied by Mr. Widowson, who adds--"these letters
were dated one month after his departure from Port Jackson, and led to the opinion that the
expedition must have perished on some reef of Van Diemen's Land. In consequence of this idea,
the French government in 1791," &c. The first mistake can be allowed for; but not that a discovery
of letters in 1809, prompted an expedition in 1791.]

[Footnote 8: Hobart Town Gazette, 1827.]

[Footnote 9: Flinders' Introduction, &c.]

[Footnote 10:

Position of Low Head:--Lat. 41°  3' 30" S.
                     Long. 146° 48' 15" E.--Flinders.]

[Footnote 11: Collins, vol. ii. p. 183.]

[Footnote 12: Remarks by Robert Brown, F.R.S. Appendix to Flinders, vol. ii. p. 533.]

[Footnote 13: Flinders, vol. ii. p. 275. Jorgenson, the Dane, who was a seaman on board the
Lady Nelson, tender to the Investigator, stated, in his rattling way, that she was in good
condition, and absurdly insinuated foul play. The Investigator was cut down, and returned to
Europe in charge of Captain Kent, R.N.]

[Footnote 14: Quarterly Review, 1814.]

[Footnote 15: See Flinders, vol. i. p. 305.]

[Footnote 16: This statement, after Rev. Mr. Gell, is erroneous. Mougé died from diseases occasioned
by the climate of Timor, and the hardships of the voyage (See Peron's work). He arrived in
an exhausted and consumptive state: when he attempted to land (20th January, 1802), he fainted,
and was instantly conveyed on board. He went no more on shore, but to the grave. He was buried
at the foot of a tree, at Maria Island, and the name Point Mougé was given to the spot.

On the 17th January, the French were attacked by natives at Swan Port, and Mougé was probably
of the party. A native attempted to snatch the drawings; "then to strike down our weak friend,
when he was prevented by those who ran to his assistance." The French say, they loaded them
with favors, and did not avenge this violence. It is, no doubt, this account which Mr. Gell
confused with the death of Mougé.]

[Footnote 17: "The famous northern confederacy placed England on the verge of destruction,
and Captain Hamilin had reason to fear that he should not have been allowed to remain in port,
or at least should be refused succour; but the English received him with liberality, grande
et loyale: the first houses at Port Jackson were open, and the whole resources of the colony
were at the disposal of the French captain." "Oftentime did they repeat that excellent maxim,
that France first inscribed on the code of nations: causa scientiarum causa populorum"--the
cause of science is the people's cause. So writes M. Peron; but the benefit of these sentiments
was denied Captain Flinders.]

[Footnote 18: Cook's Voyages.]

[Footnote 19: Tench's Narrative, p. 99.]

[Footnote 20: "The Astrolabe, M. de la Perouse, and the Boussole, M. de L'Angle, were lost
on the S. W. side of Manicolo. On one stormy dismal night, the oldest natives state, the vessels
were blown upon a reef. One was a complete wreck by day-light, and all hands perished! From
the other, however, some of the crew managed to effect a landing, when many of them were massacred
as they gained the shore, the natives taking them for white spirits, with long noses (their
cocked hats being considered a part of the face!). As soon as the unfortunate mariners were
proved to be human beings, those that had escaped death from the waves and the savages were
allowed to remain unmolested. A small vessel was built from the wrecks, which spot Captain
Dillon saw; and as soon as the bark was ready, the survivors, with the exception of two, left
Manicolo, and have never been heard of since! The natives further represented, whilst on the
island, that the strangers were continually looking at the sun, and taking their usual observations.
So late as six years ago, the two Frenchmen were alive; but one joined a party of the natives
in a war, who were defeated: the other died at Manicolo about three years since. Captain Dillon
has secured several nautical instruments, many silver spoons, a silver salver, which are all
marked with the fleur-de-lis; a pair of gold buckles, some China ware, a Spanish dollar, a
piece of the ornamental work of the stern of a ship (with the arms of France) much decayed;
several brass sheaves belonging to a frigate's topmast, a composition pump, copper cooking
utensils, a large quantity of iron knees; the silver handle of a sword-guard that was taken
to Calcutta in the St. Patrick, which led to this important discovery, and which bears the
ciphers of the unfortunate Count; several large brass guns, which were found where one vessel
was totally wrecked; together with about four or five tons of other valuable and recognisable
articles. Most of the houses, or huts, were found to have bags suspended to their sides, and
those contained human sculls in a decaying condition; but whether they were of European or
aboriginal extraction, in the absence of an able phrenologist, could not be ascertained."--Sydney
Gazette, January, 1828.

The following curious relation, is of a dream of John Maatzuiker, whose name is given by Tasman
to a rock on the coast. On the 11th of Feb., 1662, he dreamed, "that he saw Arnold de Vlaming,
member of the council of India and admiral of the fleet, who sailed for his native country
on the 23rd of December, 1661, in extreme danger, and heard him call several times for help."
The dream was repeated: "he then remained awake, noted the day," &c., "sealed it, and gave
it to the other members of government." "Accounts were brought from the Cape, that the same
day his ship and some others had sunk with man and mouse." "The paper still remains at Batavia,
or did twenty years ago."--Collection of remarkable Dreams, by Dr. Wm. Greve. Amsterdam, 1819.
The story is taken from Old and New West Indies. By François Valentijn. vol. iv. p. 312.]

[Footnote 21: Rossel, the editor of D'Entrecasteaux's Voyage, on returning homeward was captured
by the English, and being a royalist was employed in the admiralty; but when emigrants were
permitted to return, he went home, and was patronised by Napoleon. His account of D'Entrecasteaux
is more favorable than that in the work of Labillardière.]

[Footnote 22: Penny Cyclopædia: art. Bass.]

[Footnote 23: Ross's Almanack, 1835.]

SECTION II.

The settlement of New Holland was proposed by Colonel Purry, in 1723: he contended that in
33° south, a fertile region would be found, favorable to European colonisation. He offered
his theory to the British government, then to the Dutch, and afterwards to the French; but
with little encouragement. His views were submitted to the Academy of Sciences at Paris, who
replied that "they could not judge of countries they had not seen."[25] Thus the project slept,
until the great English navigator in 1770 gave certainty to what had been conjecture.

To Dalrymple, the hydrographer, the impulse of this enterprising era is largely due. He fully
believed that a vast southern continent must exist, to balance the antipodes. So firm was his
conviction, that he defined its extent as "greater than the whole civilised part of Asia, from
Turkey to the extremity of China. Its trade would be sufficient to maintain the power of Great
Britain, employing all its manufactories and ships." The position of this region of fancy was
traversed by Cook, who found nothing but ocean. The doctrine of terrestial counterpoise was
disturbed; he, however, alighted on a great reality.

The description of New South Wales by Cook and his companions, which charmed the public, attracted
the attention of the crown; and Botany Bay, named on account of the variety and beauty of its
vegetation--long known through Europe as a region of gibbets, triangles, and chains; to be
celebrated hereafter as the mistress of nations--was selected for a settlement. 565 men and
192 women, the pioneers of a larger division, were embarked under the charge of a military
force composed of volunteers; comprehending, besides the staff, sixteen commissioned officers.

The fleet consisted of H.M.S. Sirius, Hyena, and Supply; six transports and three victuallers:
they assembled at the Motherbank on the 16th March, and sailed on the 13th May, 1787.[26] They
touched at Teneriffe, and then at the Cape. Separated into two divisions, they reached their
destination within forty-eight hours of each other. On the day of their junction, dense clouds
threw a gloom over the sea; but they rejected the omen, and believed that they had seen "the
foundation, and not the fall of an empire." Having found the bay unsuitable for location, they
proceeded to examine the port called after Jackson, a seaman, who observed it from the mast,
and immortalised his name. As they passed the capes, which form an entrance, they were in raptures
with the scene:--the tall mouldering cliffs; the trees, which touched the water's edge; and
the magnificent harbour, four miles in length, begirt with a luxuriant shore.

It was on the 7th February, 1788, that the Governor was inaugurated: an area being cleared
for the purpose, the military marched to the ground with music, and colors flying; 750 convicts,
212 marines and their officers, were assembled. The standard of England was unfurled, the commission
of Phillip, the first governor, published, and the courts of justice proclaimed. The usual
formalities being complete, Phillip turned to the prisoners, and declared his intentions. He
had resolved to cherish and render happy such as might deserve his favour; but to allow the
law its course with the impenitent and unreformed. In such language we discern the sentiments
which prevailed: banishment, not punishment for past crimes, was implied in the cheering alternative.
From that moment he possessed authority to manumit not less absolute than the sovereign, but
immeasurably more power to avenge.

Those who first entered New Holland, and witnessed the elevation of the royal standard on the
shores of Port Jackson, described in terms of despondency its barren soil, barely compensated
by its salubrious atmosphere. Contemporary political writers looked coldly on the infant establishment,
as the diseased and hopeless progeny of crime: one, which could never recompense the outlay
of the crown, either by its vigour or its gratitude. The projects entertained, in connection
with commerce, were the growth of flax and the supply of naval timber, both of which had been
reported by Cook as indigenous to Norfolk Island. "When viewed in a commercial light," Captain
Tench observes (writing in 1789), "the insignificance of the settlement is very striking."
"Admitting the possibility," he continues, "that the country will hereafter yield a sufficiency
of grain, the parent state must long supply the necessaries of life. The idea of breeding cattle
sufficient to meet the consumption, must be considered very chimerical." Such desponding sentiments
mostly attend the first stages of colonisation; but in a much later period, the enterprise
was regarded with scarcely less suspicion: "Why," said a celebrated critic, "we are to erect
penitentiaries and prisons, at the distance of half the diameter of the globe, and to incur
the enormous expense of feeding and transporting its inhabitants, it is extremely difficult
to discover. It is foolishly believed, that the colony of Botany Bay unites our moral and commercial
interests, and that we shall receive, hereafter, an ample equivalent in the bales of goods,
for all the vices we export."[27] With what obstinacy an idea once mooted is cherished, may
be inferred from an opinion afterwards expressed by an authority of still greater pretension:--"The
most sanguine supporter of New South Wales system of colonisation, will hardly promise himself
any advantage from the produce it may be able to supply."[28] Its corn and wool, its timber
and hemp, he excludes from the chances of European commerce, and declares that the whale fishery,
after repeated failures, had been relinquished!

It is not less instructive than pleasing, to notice the past epochs of opinion: we find consolation
against the dark clouds overshadowing the future, by discovering how many forebodings of ancient
seers have vanished before the light of the event.

These discouraging views were not, however, universal. Many distinguished men imagined an advancement,
which our age has been sufficient to realise. To commemorate the foundation of the colony the
celebrated artist, Wedgewood, modelled, from clay brought from the neighbourhood of Sydney,
an allegorical medallion, which represented Hope encouraging Art and Labor, under the influence
of Peace.[29]

The French, however, always represented this colony as a masterpiece of policy; an element
of Anglican power, pregnant with events. Peron, when dwelling on the moral prodigies of the
settlement, declared that these but disguised the real objects of its founders, which, however,
could not escape the discernment of statesmen: they saw the formidable germ of great revolutions.[30]

The expedition of Baudin was connected by English politicians[31] with a project of French
colonisation. His instructions directed him to inspect narrowly the places eligible for occupation,
and it was expected that an Australian Pondichery would become a new focus of rivalry and intrigue.
The special injunctions to survey the inlets of Van Diemen's Land, seemed to indicate the probable
site of an establishment so obnoxious.

Dr. Bass had, however, already examined this country with similar views, especially the margin
of the rivers. To him no spot on the eastern side of the Derwent appeared to equal the neighbourhood
of Risdon Creek, around which he observed an expanding area of fertile land. He delineated
not less favorably the valley of the Tamar. This country he considered preferable to New South
Wales: with a greater proportion of fertile soil, more amply supplied with water, and well
adapted for colonisation.[32]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 24: Introduction. p. 120.]

[Footnote 25: Literary Chronicle, 1822.]

[Footnote 26: The incidents of the voyage are related by Captain Tench.]

[Footnote 27: Edinburgh Review, 1803.]

[Footnote 28: Quarterly Review, 1814.]

[Footnote 29: On this medal an author, quoted in Phillip's Voyages, ventured a poetical prophecy,
which has at least the merit of truthfulness:--

VISIT OF HOPE TO SYDNEY COVE.

Written by the author of the Botanic Garden, 1791.

Where Sydney Cove her lucid bosom swells, Courts her young navies, and the storm repels; High
on a rock, amid the troubled air, HOPE stood sublime, and wav'd her golden hair. "Hear me,"
she cried, "ye rising realms record Time's opening scenes, and Truth's unerring word: There
shall broad streets their stately walls extend, The circus widen, and the crescent bend; There,
ray'd from cities o'er the cultur'd land, Shall bright canals and solid roads expand. Embellish'd
villas crown the landscape scene, Farms wave with gold, and orchards blush between; While with
each breeze approaching vessels glide, And northern treasures dance on every tide!" Then ceas'd
the nymph: tumultuous echoes roar, And Joy's loud voice was heard from shore to shore. Her
graceful stops descending press'd the plain, And Peace, and Art, and Labor, joined the train.

--Governor Phillip's Voyage to Botany Bay.]

[Footnote 30: Vol. i. p. 12.]

[Footnote 31: Quarterly Review.]

[Footnote 32: Collins's New South Wales, vol. i. p. 180.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

FROM 1803 TO 1824.

FROM 1803 TO 1824.

SECTION I.

The establishment of a settlement in Van Diemen's Land, perhaps thus hastened by the jealousy
of a rival power, was at first chiefly intended to relieve Port Jackson. Fifteen years had
elapsed since its foundation, and from six to seven thousand prisoners had been transported
thither: dispersion became necessary to security--to repress alike the vices of the convicts,
and the growing malversation of their taskmasters. The want of prisons, or places of punishment,
and the indolence and intemperance of emancipist settlers, endangered authority.

In 1800, the transportation of the defenders from Ireland, appears to have created continual
anxiety: a committee of officers was formed to examine persons suspected, when Harold, a priest,
was arrested, and accused his fellow prisoners. His testimony was insidious, and discredited;
but the alarm led to the formation of a volunteer company of a hundred persons, who armed for
the suppression of rebellion. The more distrusted of the Irish prisoners were conveyed to Norfolk
Island; there, some months after, a conspiracy was detected to massacre the officers, and seize
the island. On the night fixed for action, the plot was discovered. An Irish servant, muttering
words of compassion, was overheard by his master: he was induced to explain, and was immediately
taken to Major Foveaux, the officer in command. The danger was imminent: the warmth of the
season (December) had tempted the soldiers to slumber with open doors, and it was said that
the sentinels were implicated who that night kept watch. These being changed, and other precautions
adopted, the plotters postponed their design; and next day were marched to church without suspicion.
The door was beset with soldiers: the leaders were arrested; one executed--and on the following
day, the blacksmith, charged with fabricating arms, was also hung. The necessity for dispensing
with the forms of law was not made out, and these summary punishments were censured. That the
danger was not imaginary, may, however, be inferred from the after attempts at Port Jackson.

The military force of New South Wales, drawn together by a love of adventure, or the hope of
gain, when their own status was assailed, were often exacting and severe: but they slightly
sustained the moral strength of the government. To select mistresses from the female prisoners
was one of their earliest and most valued prerogatives, who, standing in this equivocal relation,
became their agents and sold their rum.

The Governor, after struggling to abate the abuses around him, yielded to a pressure which
seemed irresistible. He endeavoured to mollify by his liberality, those he could not govern
by restraint: he multiplied licenses for the sale of rum, and emancipists aspired to commercial
rivalry with the suttlers in commission. The chief constable was himself a publican, and the
chief gaoler shared in the lucrative calling, and sold spirits opposite the prison.

The moral laxity which prevailed, produced its natural consequences--violations of discipline,
which led to great crimes. The offenders, to escape immediate punishments, retreated to the
remote districts; occasionally sheltered by the emancipist cotters. The feeble resistance offered
to their depredations, inspired, and almost justified the prisoners in the hope, that the common
bondage might be broken. A large agricultural establishment, belonging to the government, at
Castle-hill, Parramatta, employed many Irishmen implicated in the recent disorders of their
country. These prompted the rest to attempt to recover their liberty, but they were subdued
by the military under Major Johnstone: some were shot, and several executed.

In this unsatisfactory condition was the colony of Port Jackson, when Van Diemen's Land was
occupied. Its remote distance, its comparatively small extent and insular form, fitted it for
the purposes of penal restraint--a place where the most turbulent and rapacious could find
no scope for their passions. Its ports closed against commerce, afforded few means of escape.
In New Holland, labor and produce were redundant: overwhelming harvests reduced the price of
grain so low, that it was rejected by the merchants; goods could not be obtained in exchange;[33]
and the convicts at the disposal of government were a burden on its hands--almost in a condition
to defy its authority. Thus, Van Diemen's Land was colonised; first, as a place of exile for
the more felonious of felons--the Botany Bay of Botany Bay--

"And in the lowest deep, a lower deep!"

Lieutenant Bowen, in the Lady Nelson, set sail from Sydney, and in August, 1803, landed at
Risdon, on the east bank of the Derwent: his party included a few soldiers and prisoners, and
Dr. Mountgarrat, the surgeon. A far more important immigration soon followed.

Port Phillip, on the east coast of New Holland, first discovered by Captain Murray in the Lady
Nelson, 1799, was surveyed by Flinders in 1802, and in 1803 by Grimes, the surveyor-general.
They reported the country to be lightly timbered, to abound in herbage, and gentle slopes suitable
to the plough. The port offered an asylum against both war and tempests, sufficient for the
fleets of all nations.[34]

The establishment of a settlement at Port Phillip being determined on by the ministry of Great
Britain, an expedition was forwarded, which consisted of the Calcutta, 50 guns, Captain Woodriff,
and the Ocean, a transport of 500 tons. In addition to the convicts, there were forty marines,
four hundred male prisoners, twelve free settlers and their families, six unmarried women,
six the wives of prisoners, and six children. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the
morals of the officers, or of the women, were not superior either to the service or to the
times. The events of the voyage, worthy of remembrance, were not numerous; it was disturbed
by rumours of plots and conspiracies; punishments were not infrequent, and one woman was flogged
for stealing the cap of a companion.

The Calcutta did not convey the settlers to the Derwent. On her return to Great Britain, Lieutenant
Tuckey published an account of the voyage to Port Phillip, which he surveyed. In the year following
(1805), the Calcutta was convoy to St. Helena, and encountered the Rochefort squadron. Captain
Woodriff determined to engage the whole division: the merchantmen escaped; but the Calcutta,
in the unequal contest, became unmanageable, and struck her colors. Captain Woodriff was soon
exchanged, but Lieutenant Tuckey remained in captivity until the allied armies entered France.

Promoted to the rank of commander, he received charge of the expedition in 1816, sent to explore
the Zaire; but with most of his people fell a martyr to the spirit of African discovery. He
is said to have been handsome in person, and generous in hand. "He knew nothing of the value
of money, except as it enabled him to gratify the feelings of a benevolent heart."[35]

The spot selected at Port Phillip, was ill-chosen as the site of a town, and they found great
difficulty in obtaining pure water. These circumstances, represented by Collins to the Governor-in-chief,
were thought sufficient to justify a removal to Van Diemen's Land, and long postponed the occupation
of a country, inferior to few in this hemisphere; a measure lamented by several of the settlers.
A lady, writing to her friends from the banks of the Derwent, censured, in terms of great contempt,
the relinquishment of Port Phillip, which she described in glowing language: she seemed alone
capable of estimating its future importance; but she pronounced Van Diemen's Land a dreary
and desert region, destined never to prosper--thus she forfeited the credit of prophecy.[36]

Several prisoners attempted to escape; in one instance, with a singular result. Buckley, a
man of gigantic stature, and two others, set off, it was said, for China! They rambled for
some distance together, and suffered great misery: at last, they parted. Of his companions,
Buckley saw no more, and when he returned to the settlement all was deserted. After months
of solitary wandering, he found a tribe of natives, by whom he was adopted: he remained among
them for three-and-thirty years, conforming to their barbarous customs, and forgetting his
own language. Once only he saw the faces of white men; a boat's crew landed to bury a seaman:
he endeavoured to arrest their attention; they looked at him earnestly, but took him for a
savage--he was dressed in a rug of kangaroo skin, and was armed with spears. This man still
survives: he contributed to the friendly reception of his countrymen; but during his long sojourn,
he had imparted no ideas of civilisation.

The Lady Nelson and the Ocean conveyed the party from Port Phillip to the Derwent. The situation
of the camp at Risdon had been found undesirable, they therefore landed at Sullivan's Cove.
They arrived in two divisions, on the 30th January and 16th February, 1804. The names of the
principal persons are as follows:--Lieutenant-Governor Collins; Rev. R. Knopwood, chaplain;
E. Bromley, surgeon superintendent; W. Anson, colonial surgeon; M. Boden, W. Hopley, assistant
surgeons; P. H. Humphrey, mineralogist; Lieutenant Fosbrook, deputy-commissary-general; G.
P. Harris, deputy-surveyor; John Clarke and William Patterson, superintendents of convicts;
Lieutenants W. Sladen, J. M. Johnson, and Edward Lord; 39 marines, 3 sergeants, 1 drummer,
1 fifer; and 367 male prisoners.

Meantime, the Lady Nelson was dispatched to Port Dalrymple, and surveyed the entrance of the
Tamar: the report being favorable, a small party of prisoners were sent from Port Jackson,
under Colonel Paterson, to form a settlement, who landed in October, 1804, and for some time
held little intercourse with the settlement on the Derwent. Such were the pioneers of this
important colony; and to so many casual but concurring incidents, we owe its existence.

The first annals of the settlement offer few events worthy of record. The transactions of a
community, which in 1810 did not comprehend more than thirteen hundred and twenty-one persons,[37]--the
greater part subject to penal control--could not, unassociated with the present, detain attention
for a moment. The discipline which prevailed in Van Diemen's Land, and the results which it
produced, will be hereafter related to illustrate transportation; for who would load the colonial
fame with details, from which the eyes of mankind turn with natural disgust, or blend them
with the fabric of Tasmanian history?

The first Governor-in-chief of Van Diemen's Land, the third of New South Wales, was Philip
Gidley King, son of Philip King, a draper, of Launceston, Cornwall, England. At twelve years
of age he entered the royal navy: by Admiral Byron he was made lieutenant, and holding that
rank in the Sirius, he attended the expedition of Phillip in 1788.[38] He was employed to establish
the settlement of Norfolk Island, where his proceedings, recorded in his official journal,
and afterwards published in various forms, afforded great amusement and satisfaction. There
he united in his person, for some time, the priest and the ruler: he experienced during his
residence, most of the anxieties and difficulties incident to such stations, and detailed them
with curious minuteness. As a cultivator he was energetic and persevering; but the rats devoured
his seed, or torrents washed it away: or a tropical hurricane, which tore up huge trees, overthrew
the frail buildings he reared. His people conspired to seize his government; he detected, and
forgave them: yet he was not scrupulous in his methods of punishment. A woman he repeatedly
flogged, for stealing the provisions of her neighbours. He, however, saw the little settlement
gradually improve: it became the favorite residence of the officers; and, as the climate was
better understood, the fertility of the soil yielded a surpassing abundance.

King was not inattentive to his own interest, and became the owner of considerable stock. Anecdotes
of his humour circulate through the colonies: being asked by a settler to find him a man to
perform certain work, he took him into his room and pointed him to a mirror. Again, when a
marine was the suitor for some favour, in rejecting his petition he put him through his exercises,
which ended in quick march. He had the frankness of the sailor, and neither aspired to state
nor exacted homage.

David Collins, Esq., long judge advocate of New South Wales, was the first Lieutenant-Governor
of Van Diemen's Land. He was present with his father, General Collins, at the battle at Bunker's
Hill, and thus witnessed an event accepted by exulting Europe as a signal that British sway
over that region was lost. It was the lot of Collins to proclaim the dominion of Great Britain
at the inauguration of Phillip, and thus announced the first day of a second and not less valuable
empire.

Such incidents teach us that a single life may embrace events beyond the scope of imagination.
We are reminded of the most brilliant passage in the oratory of Burke, delivered while the
authority of the crown was trembling in the balance of fate. When illustrating how far the
realities of the future might exceed the visions of the present moment, he stated that a venerable
nobleman, Lord Bathurst, could remember when American interests were a little speck, but which
during his life had grown to greater consequence than all the commercial achievements of Great
Britain in seventeen hundred years. In the last page he, however, complains that he had spent
nine years in the colonial service, which intercepted the honors of his profession; a case
of hardship, he remarks, everywhere admitted, both by those who could compensate, and those
who could only condole.

In his dedication to Lord Hobart, the principal secretary of state, he drops the tone of complaint
and disappointment: he tells that nobleman that his private virtues were rendered more conspicuous
by the splendour of his talents as a statesman, and that praise could not be interpreted as
flattery, when devoted to a name which commanded the veneration of the world. Remonstrances
so skilfully advanced could not be unnoticed: Collins was at once raised to the rank of colonel,
and the intelligence with which he delineated the proper objects and agents of penal government,
exalted him still higher. He dated his dedication in 1802, and embarked the following year
as governor of the settlement it had been resolved to form.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 33: Wentworth's New South Wales, p. 210.]

[Footnote 34: Flinders, vol. i.]

[Footnote 35: Narrative: published by authority of the Admiralty, 1818.]

[Footnote 36: "We arrived in October, 1803: my pen is not able to describe half the beauties
of that delightful spot: we were four months there. Much to my mortification, as well as loss,
we were obliged to abandon the settlement, through the whim and caprice of the Lieutenant-Governor:
additional expense to government, and additional loss to individuals, were incurred by removing
to Van Diemen's Land, which can never be made to answer. Port Phillip is my favorite, and has
my warmest wishes. During the time we were there, I never felt one ache or pain, and I parted
from it with more regret than I did from my native land." The following is the endorsement
of this letter:--"Dated May 23rd, 1805; received October 10th, 1805--half a year! From an officer's
wife, Mrs. Hartley (quere Hopley?), to her sister."--Collection of Letters, for a History of
New South Wales. By a Merchant. London: Valpy, 1812.]

[Footnote 37: Report of Commons on Transportation, 1812.]

[Footnote 38: Phillip's Voyage, p. 95.]

[Footnote 39: The reader will not be displeased to see the whole passage. Hist., vol. xviii.
p. 487.]

[Footnote 40: Edinburgh Review, 1803.]

SECTION II.

When Collins determined to relinquish Risdon, after survey and comparison of the places offered
to his choice, he preferred the spot on which stands Hobart Town, called after the name of
his patron. Imagination has traced in its natural outlines a resemblance to the seven-hilled
Roman capital, once the mistress of the world.[41] Its chief recommendation was the stream
which runs through the centre of the city, whose margin was then beset with brushwood, and
choked with prostrate trees: these often obstructed its course, and threw over the adjacent
banks a flow of water, and thus formed marshes and pools.[42]

Hobart Town is built on the west side of the Derwent, a river named after the Derwent in Cumberland,
celebrated by Wordsworth, the laureate of England, and the poet of the lakes, who thus associates
with its beauties the recollections of his childhood:--

"Among the mountains were we nursed, loved stream! Thou near the eagle's nest, Where thy deep
voice could lull me." "--------Glory of the vale! Kept in perpetual verdure by the steam Of
thy soft breath."[43]

The county, including at first half the island, was called after the same nobleman, who was
then Lord Buckinghamshire.

The northern settlement, formed by Colonel Paterson,[44] was seated on the Western Arm of the
Tamar, and called York Town. In describing the site, the difficulty of obtaining water is noticed
by Flinders; but by Dr. Bass, the adjacent land was represented as adapted for both agriculture
and pasture: he added, "If it should be ever proposed to make a settlement, this part seems
to merit particular attention." From this spot the greater part of the new establishment was
removed (1806) to the country above the North and South Esk; where the colonists were delighted
to discover extensive plains equally suitable for tillage and pasture, where not a tree obstructed
the prospect.[45]

The Tamar was traced, and named by Paterson after a Cornish stream, and the valley of Launceston,
after a town in Cornwall, and both in honor of Governor King. At Launceston he proposed to
establish a sea port town, for the northern section of the island. Port Dalrymple, as this
settlement was then called, was not under the government of Hobart Town until 1812.[46]

The first communication between Hobart and Launceston was opened by Lieutenant Laycock and
his party, they were nine days in the journey, and their unexpected appearance excited great
astonishment at Hobart.[47] A loaded cart was subsequently sent to Launceston, and passed over
the country without falling a single tree.[48]

The first Tasmanian house stood on land adjoining the Macquarie Hotel: it was built by Lieutenant
E. Lord, of wattle and dab--its windows, like the port-holes of a vessel. That it was the first,
constituted its chief claim to distinction: it was considered as an achievement of civilisation--a
trophy gained upon the wilderness. All were not so well lodged; yet such houses are soon reared.
Posts, joined by wall plates, fixed in the ground; woven with wattle rods, plastered with mingled
clay, sand, and wiry short grass, and whitened--a grass thatched roof; a chimney of turf piled
on stone, a door and a window: the cottage is finished.

The removal of the settlers from Norfolk Island, colonised in 1788, was the next most important
event. On his return to Great Britain, Collins visited that place, in company with Hunter,
the late governor-in-chief. On the whole, he represented Norfolk Island as by no means promising
to repay the annual cost, and it was resolved to abandon it.

In 1803, directions were issued by Lord Buckinghamshire (Lord Hobart). The opposition of the
settlers, and the fear of famine, for some time occasioned delay. In 1805, only four free settlers
had removed. The order was renewed in 1808 by Mr. Windham, then secretary of state, and Captain
Bligh directed Captain Piper to compel the colonists to evacuate the island, and even to shoot
any one who might retreat to the woods to avoid embarkation.[49] They were conveyed to this
island chiefly in the Estramina, City of Edinburgh, and Sydney: 254 arrived on 15th October,
1808.[50]

Norfolk Island, so celebrated for its genial climate and unusual fruitfulness, is of volcanic
origin, and contains about 14,000 acres. It lies on the 29th parallel,[51] north of New Zealand:
it is nine hundred and ninety miles from Port Jackson, thirteen hundred miles from the Derwent,
and until seen by Captain Cook, was probably never visited by man. Norfolk Island has twenty-eight
miles of sea shore: its greatest elevation is Mount Pitt: it is a succession of hills and valleys.
Its lofty cliffs, which breast the ocean, are crowned by the elegant white wood and the gigantic
pine. The wild jasmine and convolvuli, which reach from tree to tree, form bowers and walks
of exquisite beauty. Twice in the year the settler gathered his harvest: the lemon, the orange,
and the pine, shed their fragrance in profusion, and yielded the richest fruit. Though liable
to occasional storms and destructive insects, the husbandman could scarcely be said to toil.
Gentle showers frequently refresh the undulating soil, and pour down rivulets to the ocean.
Sea breezes cool the atmosphere, and the diseases often incident to such latitudes, are unknown;
but no ships can anchor: it is a land unsuited to commerce.

Thus it presented no incitement to exertion: it gave the indolent abundance without labor;
it afforded a leisure, in which man is prone to degenerate and sink into the savage. Distillation
from the cane produced spirits, more than usually deleterious: unacquainted with the process
by which saccharine is crystalised, the settlers were unable to prepare sugar. They found the
raw rum destructive, and attributed its fatal effects solely to the leaden worms![52]

In 1800, the population of Norfolk Island comprehended 960 souls:[53] 3,521 acres of land were
granted; divided into farms of from ten to thirty acres each. A station, where rather more
refractory offenders were sent, its government varied with the character of each officer. Of
the moral condition of the island nothing good could be expected, and little favorable is remembered.

Always a place of banishment, even when a colony, Norfolk Island seemed destined to exhibit
the extremes of natural beauty and moral deformity. The language of Holt, the Irish rebel,
who spent several months there, might be better suited to a latter period, but expressed the
intensity of his abhorrence, not wholly unfounded--"That barbarous island, the dwelling place
of devils in human shape; the refuse of Botany Bay--the doubly damned!"[54]

On the determination of the government being announced, the settlers manifested great repugnance:
the elder people declared they would not quit the country; it was, however, the decree of an
irresistible will. The inhabitants were offered a settlement in Van Diemen's Land or New South
Wales; mostly, they chose this country. They received from the government whatever would contribute
towards reconciling them to the change. Vessels were provided for their removal, their possession
in land was doubled, and it was freed from all conditions and reservations. They received cattle
on loan, and they were rationed as new settlers from the public stores. That the change was
beneficial to the rising generation can hardly be doubted; but the effect on the parents was
generally painful. Time was required to equal the cultivation of the spot they had left, compared
with which even Van Diemen's Land seemed blank and barren. Years after, they spoke of the change
with regret and sadness.

The settlers, divided into three classes, according to their origin or wealth, were located
part in the neighbourhood of Hobart Town, at Pittwater, and New Norfolk, and part at Norfolk
Plains. Thirty, forty, or fifty acres was the ordinary grant, until a later period: a large
extent was neither possessed nor desired. Many valued nothing but the immediate benefits to
which their character as immigrant farmers then entitled them. They drew their rations from
the royal stores, and bartered away their homesteads for a few bottles of spirit; and it was
no idle boast, that a keg of rum was then worth more than a common farm. Their hopeless and
dissipated state is remarked in every document of the times: their frail dwellings soon exhibited
all the signs of decay, and their ground was exhausted by continual cropping. Thus the exhilarating
influences of youth and vigour, usual in the first steps of colonisation, were here unknown,
and a civilising agency rarely counteracted the social evils which prevailed. The transactions
of those early days are scarcely colonial: charged with debauch and outrage, they denote a
time of social disorganisation--the dark ages found in the history of every country, where
men have been their own masters, and remote from a public opinion, which cannot be corrupted
or controlled.

There were, however, a few settlers from Norfolk Island, distinguished from the rest by their
enterprise and diligence, and who rose to wealth; but in glancing down the list, a colonist
observes how few have retained their heritage.

During the administration of Colonel Collins, the progress of the colony was barely perceptible.
There were no roads in the interior; no public buildings: the house of the governor was a mere
cottage, too mean for the accommodation of a modern mechanic.

The transfer commenced at the close of 1805. The Sydney, Captain Forrest, was employed to convey
to the Derwent a party of the settlers, and the stock belonging to the governor-in-chief: this
was purchased by Mr. George Guest, who sold the sheep at £5 per head, and was repaid in cattle.
In the Sydney, Joseph Holt, now discharged from restraint, visited Van Diemen's Land, and contributed
to its welfare by his agricultural and pastoral experience. He found Collins still living in
a tent. A few acres of land had been cultivated at New Town by convicts, in charge of Clarke,
the superintendent: cattle had arrived from Bengal, and sheep from Port Jackson; but the progress
of the settlement had hitherto been slow.

In New South Wales,[55] gangs of men, stripped to the waist, labored together, and were exposed
to rigorous discipline, common to slaves. These methods of tillage were introduced into Van
Diemen's Land, where as yet there were no fields prepared for the plough, nor beast of draught
to facilitate human toil. The chief overseers were not skilled in cultivation: one had been
a shoemaker, the other a tailor; and while they were expecting large returns, they were ignorant
that the full ears which promised an abundant yield, were smut, not grain. This early failure
was attended with disastrous results.

On the arrival of the Sydney, Collins looked narrowly into the probable resources at his disposal,
and sent Joseph Holt to examine the land on the Derwent, with a view to future location. He
proceeded along its shores, until a ledge of rocks obstructed the passage of his boat: then
ascending an eminence, not less in apparent height than the Dromedary Mountain, "I sat down,"
he writes, "on its top, and saw the finest country eyes ever beheld." This was that extensive
district which, from the previous residence of its occupiers, was named New Norfolk. The spot
whence he surveyed the subjacent land he called Mount Casha.

Joseph Holt, general of the rebel army of Wexford in 1798, at one time commanded 1,300 men.
Memoirs, written by himself, were purchased by the keeper of the Irish records, and were edited
by Thomas Crofton Croker. The result of that sanguinary struggle added considerable numbers
to the population of these colonies, but on various terms. Holt was an exile, though often
treated as a convict. As a commander he displayed great natural talents, courage, and fidelity.
He ascribed his position as a rebel, solely to necessity of choosing between immediate death
or insurrection. A neighbour wrecked his property, and denounced him a traitor in revenge:
then loyal men were privileged to condemn without trial, and slaughter on the spot. In New
South Wales, Holt was often suspected of sedition: he was imprisoned, and was forwarded to
Norfolk Island without trial; on returning to Port Jackson, he visited the Derwent. Of Collins,
Holt speaks with great enthusiasm, as the most lenient of the governors, and the finest of
gentlemen: when he entered the forests, absconders would fall down on their knees before him,
and obtain his forgiveness.[56]

Holt's notices of this place are scanty, and of the people more so; but he observes that the
daughter of Mrs. Hayes was a "beautiful girl: the prettiest violet I saw growing on the Derwent."
Of such charms he was no mean judge.[57] Collins was desirous that Holt should settle on the
Derwent, and wrote to Governor King for his consent: the knowledge he possessed of the treatment
of stock, it was thought, would have been useful; but he resolved not to move farther from
the port of embarkation. He at length returned to Ireland, with £2,000--a step he lived to deplore.

The settlement was early involved in great difficulties. The hoe, the usual implement of husbandry,
effected but a slow and discouraging progress: supplies from Port Jackson were forwarded in
small quantities, and were soon altogether interrupted. In 1806 a disaster occurred, which
reduced the elder colony to severe privation. The tempting fertility of of the land bordering
on the Hawkesbury, the Nile of this hemisphere, induced the petty farmers, whose homesteads
dotted its margin, to overlook its dangers. An inundation, remembered as the great flood, exceeded
all former devastations: vast torrents, of which the origin was unknown, descended from the
mountains, and pouring down with prodigious violence, suddenly filled and overflowed the channels
of the river; and rising to the height of sixty and eighty feet in a few hours, swept away
the stacks of corn, the live stock, and even the dwellings. A vessel approaching the coast,
saw fragments of the floating ruins many miles distant from the shore. Thus, lately possessing
a superabundant store, the poor suffered extreme destitution, and the price of maize and wheat
rose to £5 and £6 per bushel.[58]

Unable to succour this colony, the government left it to its own resources, and for several
years the scarcity continued with various intensity. The kangaroo hunters were the chief purveyors
of food. The officers allowed servants, sent them to the woods, and sold their spoil to government.
Considerable profits were made by the more successful: the commissariat allowed 1s. 6d. per
lb., and the foundation of some fortunes were laid by persons whose servants were faithful
and expert. A marine, assisted by two convicts, delivered to the king's stores, 1000 lbs. of
kangaroo per month, and continued in this occupation for several years. A few coarse biscuits
were distributed while they lasted, but the substitute for bread was the dried and pounded
flesh of kangaroo! The government, unable to feed, could no longer task the prisoners: to lessen
the pressure, they were sometimes permitted to disperse in search of subsistence, and thus
laid the foundation of those lawless habits which afterwards brought the colony to the verge
of ruin.

The Sydney had been chartered to India for wheat, but was lost, and the colony disappointed
of the expected relief. When this calamity became known, a second effort was made: Colonel
Paterson, while acting Governor of New South Wales, contracted with Captain Bunker, of the
Venus, to bring a cargo of wheat from Bengal. It was not until 1810, that she anchored in the
Derwent: the dread of famine was removed, and wheat was now valued at 12s. a bushel. The change
of seed enabled the farmers to clear their ground of that mixed and inferior grain which had
disappointed all attempts at agricultural independence.[59]

When at Bengal, the captain of the Venus received from the governor two prisoners, supposed
to be cast-aways from a vessel seized at Port Jackson. Stewart, formerly a lieutenant in the
navy, secretly contrived a plan to take the Harrington, a vessel richly laden, and provisioned
for a long voyage. The wind blew fair as she lay in Sydney harbour, a tempting prize: embracing
the favorable moment, Stewart called together several companions whom he could trust, and submitted
his project, at the instant proper for its execution--the first successfully attempted by prisoners.
Thus, before suspicion was awakened, he had seized a boat, hurried on board, mastered the crew,
and was scudding before the breeze. But at sea his good fortune forsook him: the Harrington
was recaptured by the Greyhound, and both vessels were lost on the coast of Luconia.[60]

These pirates were permitted to land at the Derwent, and were left behind by the Venus. They
were found at the house of Garth, a settler, by soldiers sent to seize spirits secretly landed
from the vessel. Mistaking the errand of the soldiers, one of these men called on his comrade
to resist them; and being enraged by a refusal, he fired, and inflicted a mortal wound.[61]
Such complicated crime was not extraordinary; but the kind of force necessary in the civil
government, and the shelter afforded to outlaws, were symptoms of social disorder, which soon
after assumed an alarming character.

It was the misfortune of Collins to be involved with the parties responsible in the deposition
of Governor Bligh. This remarkable deviation from the ordinary conduct of British soldiers,
has been attributed partly to the composition of the military force raised for that colony,
and partly to the temper of Bligh. The officers merged the military character in the mercantile
spirit, and were accustomed to enjoy privileges in virtue of their commissions, which they
converted into a monopoly of trade. The distance of New South Wales from the centre of commerce,
induced the crown to provide for the settlers the miscellaneous articles which are usually
kept only by the shopkeepers. At Port Jackson, there were public magazines stored with every
requisite for domestic use, such as potters' ware, utensils for the kitchen, and the implements
of farming.[62] These were issued at stated prices, rather less than such commodities cost
in Europe; but to prevent them becoming the objects of speculation, an official order for every
issue, specifying the article, was necessary. Such methods of distribution gave, notwithstanding,
ample room for partiality and corruption. On the arrival of Bligh, he found the improvident
settlers, discontented and poor, completely in the hands of the martial dealers. Perhaps, from
a love of justice, he attempted to rescue them from the grasp of these intermediate agents,
who bought their produce at a narrow price, and gave them in exchange goods bearing an enormous
per centage.[63] Bligh permitted the farmers to draw from the public magazine whatever was
necessary for private use, and took their engagement to deliver their grain to the stores at
the close of the harvest. This interruption to the customary dealings of the officers, naturally
provoked them: Bligh reciprocated their aversion, and resented their disrespect. It is, indeed,
stated by Wentworth, that this unfortunate officer renewed in New South Wales, the same tyranny
which it is alleged had driven seamen of the Bounty to mutiny: that his disposition was brutal,
and that he refined on the modes of inflicting torture.[64]

Bligh was arrested on the 26th January, 1808. A complicated quarrel with Mr. Macarthur, formerly
paymaster of the New South Wales corps, arising out of mercantile transactions, was the occasion
of the military insurrection. Having refused to attend a summons, Macarthur was apprehended
on a warrant, and committed for trial: he was charged with an intention to stir up the people
of the colony to hatred of the governor and of government--words of ominous import, when read
in the light of colonial history.[65] Except the president of the court, the officers were
more favorable to the accused than to the governor, and regarded him as the victim of a common
cause. In his address to the court, Mr. Macarthur objected to the judge advocate, as a person
disreputable in character, and actuated by feelings of hostility against himself. That functionary
then threatened to commit Macarthur for contempt: Captain Anthony Fenn Kemp interposed, with
a threat "to commit the judge advocate himself;" who, seeing among the spectators many soldiers
wearing side-arms, and fearing for his personal safety, left the bench. Macarthur again appealled
to his military brethren to preserve him from the ruffian constabulary: they immediately ordered
the soldiers present to protect him against the peace officers. This interference was represented
as an illegal rescue; Macarthur, however, surrendered to the provost marshal, and was lodged
in gaol. Had Bligh escaped to the interior, the personal safety of the officers might have
been perilled.

Bligh was permitted to embark on board the Porpoise[67], to proceed forthwith to Great Britain,
engaging not to communicate with any intermediate British colony. He bound himself upon his
honor as an officer and a gentlemen to attempt nothing to the disturbance of the existing government,
pending the reference to Downing-street. This agreement he made with Colonel Paterson, who
had no part in the revolt. When upon the quarter-deck of the Porpoise, he repudiated these
engagements, and ordered Lieutenant Kent, then in command, to batter down Sydney, and to restore
his authority by force;--a task he declined. He, however, sailed for the Derwent, where his
vessel was still lying, when unknown to him Macquarie arrived in New South Wales. Bligh had
dispatched information of the insurrection at the earliest opportunity, and the ministers lost
no time in forwarding new troops. The ships approached the harbour, prepared to pour in a broadside,
but the government was instantly delivered up to the newly appointed head, by Colonel Paterson,
the officer in command. The greater part of his official acts were prudently confirmed by Governor
Macquarie, although the gifts and appointments of the interim government were declared null
and void.

When Bligh arrived at Hobart Town, he was received by Collins with the respect due to his station;
he was, however, soon followed by despatches, which informed the lieutenant-governor of the
movements at Sydney. Collins, Bligh stated, intended to arrest him; at all events he re-embarked,
and the settlers were interdicted from holding communication. A free man, Mr. Belbin, was flogged
for the infraction of this order, but afterwards received a grant from the crown in reward
for his loyalty. Mr. George Guest espoused the same side: the vessel was ill-provisioned, and
he secretly drove down his cattle to the beach, where some were slaughtered for the use of
the Porpoise.

In extenuation of the conduct of Collins, it will be remembered that Bligh was already deposed,
when he appeared in the Derwent; and that his attempted resumption of office was a breach of
his parole. The impression prevailed that Bligh, if restored, would exact sanguinary vengeance.
The union of the officers was requisite to preserve order, even in the most quiet times: when
deprived of military authority, it was the moral duty of Bligh to await the interference of
the supreme government, and not needlessly expose those whom he was unable to protect, to the
double danger of disloyalty and faction.

Bligh returned to Port Jackson: though the time for his honorary restitution was passed, he
was received with respectful formality. A proclamation had already been issued, prohibiting
suits of law for injuries suffered from the usurping government, and giving indemnity and protection
to all who had acted under its authority; but Bligh was empowered to carry home all who might
be able to throw light on his deposition. This order must have terminated the government of
Collins, had he survived. Colonel Johnstone was tried and cashiered (but permitted to sell
his commission), and the mildness of his sentence was attributed by the crown to the extraordinary
circumstance of the case.[68]

This was the last important occurrence in the eventful life of Collins: he died on the 24th
March, 1810, in the fifty-sixth year of his age, having held the administration six years and
thirty-six days. His death was sudden: except a slight cold, there was little warning of its
approach. He died whilst sitting in his chair, and conversing with his attendant. His funeral
was celebrated with all the pomp the colony could command, and 600 persons were present.[69]
The share he accepted in the responsibility of the deposition of Bligh, disturbed his tranquillity,
and it was thought hastened his end.

In 1810, Collins attempted to establish a newspaper--The Derwent Star, and Van Diemen's Land
Intelligencer.[70] Though but a quarto leaf, with broad margin, and all the contrivances which
dilate the substance of a journal, it was much too large for the settlement--where often there
was nothing to sell; where a birth or marriage was published sooner than a paragraph could
be printed; where a taste for general literature had no existence, and politics were excluded.
The chief contents were droll anecdotes and odd exploits. The second number contains a rather
pompous account of Governor Macquarie's inauguration at Sydney. The next issue, beside a government
order or two, describes the feat of Barclay, the pedestrian--a thousand miles in a thousand
hours; the wonderful longevity of Joseph Ram, a black of Jamaica, who died in his 140th year;
then the greatness of Lambert, whose body weighed 52 lbs. fourteen times told; and who was
sent by an inclined plane into his grave. Then follow an eulogy on the governor's profession,
one trial, one ship, two births, and one marriage. The notice of a wedding is characteristic
and unique--the first published by the Tasmanian press:--"On Monday, 26th ult., R. C. Burrows
to Elizabeth Tucker, both late of Norfolk Island. They had cohabited together fourteen years,
verifying at last the old adage--better late than never."[71] Such were the topics of this
ephemeral journal, which, however, survived the governor himself. In the number published a
few days before his decease, are the following lines:--

"And thou, dear Cobham, with thy latest breath Shall feel thy ruling passion strong in death:
Such in that moment, as in all the past: 'O, save my country, heaven!' shall be thy last."
It is said that, three years subsequent, he distinguished himself in that fatal conflict already
noticed--the battle of Bunker's Hill. In 1774, he was captain of marines in the Courageux,
of 74 guns, commanded by Lord Mulgrave, and was present with Lord Howe, at the relief of Gibraltar.
At the peace of 1782, he retired to Rochester, in Kent, with his lady, an American, who survived
him. The despatch, announcing his decease, was filled with lamentations: "I am sure," said
the writer, "when I speak the feelings of my heart on this melancholy occasion, that it is
not my single voice, but that of every department whatsoever in the settlement, who with the
most heartfelt regret acknowledge him to have been the father and the friend of all," His person
was remarkably handsome, and his manners prepossessing: to a cultivated understanding, and
an early fondness for literature, he joined a most cheerful and social disposition.

Colonel Collins was buried in the church-yard of St. David's, Hobart Town. To provide a temporary
place for public worship, a small wooden church was erected on the spot, and its altar was
reared over his grave. This building was blown down in a tempest, and its materials being carried
off, left the resting place of Collins long exposed to the careless tread of the stranger.
Sir John Franklin, always generous to the memory of official worth, reared a monument, bearing
this inscription:--

                    Sacred
                to the Memory of
              DAVID COLLINS, ESQ.,
        Lieutenant Governor of this Colony,
and Lieutenant Colonel of the Royal Marine Forces.
    On the first establishment of the colony of
New South Wales he was employed as Judge Advocate,
              And in the year 1803
    he was entrusted by his Majesty's government
          with the command of an expedition,
    destined to form a settlement at Port Phillip,
          on the south coast of New Holland;
        but which was subsequently removed to
                Van Diemen's Land.

       *     *     *     *     *

      Under his direction as Lieutenant Governor,
          the site of this town was chosen,
        and the foundation of its first building
                    laid in 1804.
      He died here on the 28th of March, 1810,[73]
                    aged 56 years.
          And this monument long projected
        was erected to his memory in 1838,
          by direction of His Excellency
    SIR JOHN FRANKLIN, K.C.H., K.R.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 41: Ross's Almanack, 1829.]

[Footnote 42: Ibid, 1835.]

[Footnote 43: Wordsworth's Sonnet to the Derwent.]

[Footnote 44: Colonel Paterson had been distinguished by his researches in Africa, and had
gained considerable reputation as a botanist. This spirit of enterprise and intelligence he
always preserved: he directed the government botanical establishment at Parramatta, and the
French delineated his attainments with more than their usual enthusiasm. He superintended the
exotic plantation provided for the colonies, and the repository of native shrubs intended for
the gardens at Kew. His name not unfrequently occurs as an adjunct to the scientific descriptions
of the botanist. Formerly acting governor and commander of the military corps of New South
Wales, he was not unsuitable for the more direct duties of his office. It is, however, as a
naturalist that he is remembered. He planted trees: some are still growing amidst the desolation
of York Town. He was the first who attempted to improve the grass of the country. He was the
author of a volume of travels, published in 1789, entitled, Narrative of Four Journies into
the Country of the Hottentots and Caffraria, in the years 1777-8, and 9.]

[Footnote 45: Sydney Gazette, 1806.]

[Footnote 46: Ibid, May, 1812.]

[Footnote 47: Ibid, May, 1807.]

[Footnote 48: Lieut. Lord's Evidence, Par. Pap., 1812.]

[Footnote 49: Johnstone's Trial, p. 337.]

[Footnote 50: Sydney Gazette, 1808.]

[Footnote 51: "After numerous observations, we found it--Lat. 29° 4' 40". Long. 161° 12' East
Greenwich."--Hunter's Historical Journal.]

[Footnote 52: Backhouse's Journal.]

[Footnote 53: Collins.]

[Footnote 54: Holt gives the following curious anecdote:--"The Rev. Henry Fulton was reading
the commandments, when Tony Chandler sung out--'turn out, you d----d villians, and launch the
boat!' As I was going out, I said to Mr. Fulton, 'I perceive Tony Chandler's word has more
power here than the word of God.' Fulton smiled, and shook his head."--Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 232.]

[Footnote 55: "At a distance, I saw about fifty men at work, as I thought dressed in nankeen
jackets, but on nearer approach I found them naked, except trousers: they had each a kind of
large hoe, about nine inches deep and eight wide, and the handle as thick as a shovel, with
which they turned up the ground."-Holt's Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 79.]

[Footnote 56: The work is written with considerable strength of delineation; although his accounts
are not quite safe authority for the character of his enemies. His words he spelled after a
provincial pronunciation: thus, describing the crew of the Sydney, he writes, instead of Sepoys
and Lascars, "Saypies and Glascars."]

[Footnote 57: Of the women at Rio, he says--"Their skin is equal in clearness to the skin of
a new laid egg: their eyes black as sloes; their hair like polished jet; their teeth as even
as rows of printing, and as white as pearls; their eye-brows like those of a doll: their feet
and legs, as if they were modelled in wax-work. Before the sentence was executed, Lord Cornbury
arrived: the chief justice fled to England; Lord Cornbury, however, it is said; destroyed the
factions of New York, by oppressing them both: "and the contest soon began, which ended in
the establishment of a free and independent nation."--Chandler's American Trials. Boston: vol.
i. p. 294.]

[Footnote 66: Lang's History of New South Wales, vol. i. p. 110.]

[Footnote 67: Dr. Lang states, that "he was obliged to sign an agreement to quit the colony
forthwith; but instead of proceeding to England, Governor Bligh landed at the Derwent."--(vol.
i. p. 121). And seems rather to extenuate this breach of faith. Were no agreement of this class
binding the rigours of captivity and civil strife could never be mitigated. The following is
Bligh's own statement:--"I took the Porpoise on the terms they proposed to me, and the moment
I got the command of the Porpoise, I took care to keep it, and would not suffer any of these
terms, or any thing which they said to have the least influence on my mind."--Johnstone's trial,
p. 33.]

[Footnote 68: Horse Guards. July 1811.]

[Footnote 69: New South Wales Gazette, 1810.]

[Footnote 70: Printed by J. Barnes and T. Clark, at the Government Press, Hobart Town.]

[Footnote 71: Derwent Star, March 6th, 1810.]

[Footnote 72: Collins's Peerage: of venerable authority.--Quarterly Review, 1820.]

SECTION III.

On the demise of Colonel Collins, the government devolved on Lieutenant Edward Lord, until
the arrival of Captain Murray, of the 73rd regiment.

The governor-in-chief visited Van Diemen's Land during Captain Murray's administration. This
auspicious event was the subject of great exultation. Macquarie was received with all possible
formality and tokens of gladness: a salute from a battery of no great power; an illumination
in the small windows of the scattered cottages; and addresses delivered by delegates, not bound
to declare the number of their constituents.[74]

Nothing remarkable is remembered of this visit, except that Macquarie traced the future city.
He complained of the utter neglect of right lines in the erection of dwellings, which advanced
or retreated according to the whim of the builder. The centre of the projected town he called
St. George's Square: in this he intended to rear a church and town hall, and the quarters of
the main guard: the open space he designed for a market. The streets which intersect each other
he called by the names which still distinguish them: Liverpool-street after the minister of
that name; Macquarie-street after himself; Elizabeth-street in honor of his lady; Argyle-street,
of their native country; and Murray-street in compliment to the officer in command. The plan
sketched by Macquarie has not been absolutely followed, nor has it been improved. He ordered
the erection of a signal staff on Mount Nelson, named after the vessel which brought him to
port, and conveyed him safely to Port Jackson. The settlers on the Derwent expressed a fervent
admiration of his devotedness in thus venturing to face the dangers of the visit; especially
accompanied by his consort--so they distinguished Mrs. Macquarie. The governor merited their
gratitude, for his hand was liberal.[75]

In February, 1812, Colonel Geils became acting Lieutenant-Governor, and remained until the
arrival of Colonel Davey. Colonel Geils devoted great attention to agricultural pursuits, and
first formed at Risdon a considerable farming establishment. Ordered to India with the troops
under his command, he forwarded his youthful sons to the Cape of Good Hope, thence to be conveyed
to England. The colonists heard soon after with deep commiseration, that the vessel in which
they re-embarked was lost.

Colonel Davey, the second Governor of Van Diemen's Land, arrived on the 4th February, 1813.
His manner of entrance indicated the peculiarity of his character, for the weather being warm
he carried his coat on his arm, and announced himself at the house where he sought temporary
accommodations: nor did his subsequent administration differ from its unceremonious beginning.
He took pleasure in practical jokes and rough humour: his countenance was strongly marked,
and, by a peculiar motion of the scalp, he delighted to throw his forehead into comical contortions.
He shared in common a taste for spirituous liquors, and was not unwilling to participate wherever
he was welcome as a guest. On what principle he was selected to conduct the affairs of a remote
and reformatory settlement, it would be useless to conjecture. As a marine, he had been present
in many important actions; among the rest, at the battle of Trafalgar. His intended departure
from England he concealed from his family, by whom it was discovered accidentally: they reached
the vessel by extraordinary exertions, and in neglect of all the usual preparations for the
voyage. The ship which conveyed his luggage was taken by the Americans, during the war--for
him a fortunate loss: indemnified by the largest grant ever conferred in this island (3,000
acres); for it was not pretended that the captors could have made an extensive prize.

Mrs. Davey, a lady of a meek and uncomplaining spirit, is spoken of with respect, and the governor
himself with kindness; for under a rough exterior was concealed a generous disposition.

During Davey's government, two hundred female prisoners were brought down from Sydney, in the
brig Kangaroo: proclamation was made, and the settlers were invited to receive them. There
was little delicacy of choice: they landed, and vanished; and some carried into the bush, changed
their destination before they reached their homes. Yet such is the power of social affections,
several of these unions yielded all the ordinary consolations of domestic life!

The conveniences of civilisation were not wholly neglected. The ports were opened for general
commerce (June, 1813): houses of trade were established, and Messrs. Kemp and Gatehouse, Messrs.
E. Lord and J. H. Reibey, supplied the colony with English goods: the most necessary articles
had often been wanting. The settlers purchased even the clothing of the prisoners, as preferable
to the skins of animals by which they were often clad.

The resources of the colony were developed: Mr. Birch, an enterprising merchant, fitted out
a vessel to survey the western coasts (1816), and Captain Kelly discovered Macquarie Harbour
and Port Davey: Captain Florence found a new species of pine, very highly valued by artificers.
Mr. Birch was rewarded with one year's monopoly of the trade he had opened.

The whale fishery was considerably enlarged: corn was exported; the plough introduced, and
gradually superseded the hoe; a mill erected; and (February, 1817) the foundation of St. David's
Church was laid. Passage boats connected the banks of the Derwent; a civil court for the recovery
of debts, not exceeding £50, was established. A newspaper--a second time attempted in 1814
without success, when the commercial strength of the community was indicated by two or three
advertisements--was at length published under better auspices. On the 1st June, 1816, Mr. Andrew
Bent issued the first number of the Hobart Town Gazette and Southern Reporter, and thus brought
into permanent action an agency which has promoted as well as recorded the advancement of the
community. Nor can it be recollected without regret, that he, an undoubted benefactor of the
colony, is left to an indigent old age, cut off from the prosperity to which his early labors
contributed.

The welfare of Van Diemen's Land was greatly retarded by the number, daring, and prolonged
depredations of the bushrangers. In some districts, the inhabitants offered a sanctuary to
criminals, and, as their scouts, gave notice of the approach of danger; while in others the
settlers were driven before them. To check their ravages, Colonel Davey declared the whole
colony under martial law: he punished with flogging persons, whether free or bond, who quitted
their houses by night. Several offenders were captured, and suffered death.[76] The inhabitants,
to the number of six hundred, expressed their approval of this stretch of power, but it was
promptly disallowed by the governor-in-chief. On many previous occasions the same course had
been pursued. To constitutional law, the lieutenant-governor was both indifferent and a stranger.

Colonel Davey, when he relinquished his office, remained for some time as a settler; he was
not, however, successful. He returned to England, where he died on the 2nd May, 1823. His contemporaries
speak of his character in terms of eulogy. The modern colonist will remember, that the tastes
of society have since that period been modified, even in Great Britain; and that character
can never be fairly judged when separated from the circumstances in which it is developed.
Then, the town was a mere camp: the etiquette of office, necessary when a community is advanced,
would be folly in its infancy.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 73: Collins, according to most authorities, died on the 24th March, 1810.]

[Footnote 74:

"To his Excellency LACHLAN MACQUARIE, ESQ., Captain-General and Commander-in-chief of his Majesty's
Territory of New South Wales and its Dependencies, &c. &c. &c.

"We, the inhabitants, settlers, and freeholders of his Majesty's settlement established at
the Derwent, Van Diemen's Land, impressed with the most fervent zeal for his Majesty's government,
and the most profound respect, esteem, and veneration for your Excellency, most dutifully congratulate
you on your arrival at Hobart Town.

"When men, whose characteristic is industry, consider themselves governed by an Officer in
whom his Majesty has reposed merited confidence, who in order to promote agriculture, encourage
morality, efface dissension, and patronise the industrious and deserving part of our community,
leaves his seat of government, and exposes himself and his worthy Consort, under many privations,
in a small vessel, to the dangers of a coasting voyage on these seas, a natural emulation must
necessarily arise in the breasts of the inhabitants to merit, by an inviolable attachment to
the laws, and an adherence to the regulations of the colony, the patronage, favour, and protection
of such an unequalled Governor.

"We humbly presume to hope that the favorable impressions which our industrious exertions have
made on your Excellency's mind on your seeing Hobart Town and its vicinity, will become much
increased on your return from that tour through the different settlements which your Excellency's
intuitive mind may induce you to make.

"Independent of the high consideration in which we hold your Excellency as the Representative
of our Most Gracious Sovereign, we presume to solicit your acceptance of our most unqualified
respect for your Excellency's person, and with duty, in the name and on the behalf of the inhabitants
in general, subscribe ourselves your Excellency's most devoted servants,

"R. W. LOANE,  J. INGLE, "T. W. BIRCH,  A. WHITEHEAD."

"Hobart Town, Van Diemen's Land, November 26, 1811.

"GENTLEMEN,--The address which I have this day the satisfaction to receive from you has been
gratifying to me, and I beg you to believe that the inconveniences I have experienced in my
voyage to Van Diemen's Land, have been amply compensated in the pleasure I feel on seeing one
of the finest countries in the world in a state of rapid improvement by the exertions of his
Majesty's loyal subjects settled here, in whose welfare I shall at all times feel a warm interest;
and sincerely hope that the industry so happily begun will be persevered in with success.

"I return you many thanks for the sentiments of regard you have been pleased to express towards
me.--I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your most obedient and most humble servant,

"(Signed) LACHLAN MACQUARIE.

"To Messrs. R. W. Loane, J. Ingle, T. W. Birch, and A. Whitehead, the Committee who presented
the Address from the inhabitants of the Settlement at Hobart Town, in Van Diemen's Land."]

[Footnote 75: The complimentary style in which the settlers addressed the Macquarie family
was not without reason. It is said that Mrs. Kate Kearney, when the high price of her butter
was complained of by the governor, stopped the supply. Mrs. Macquarie, curious to see this
independent milk-seller, paid her a visit: when she entered, the old lady received her very
graciously, and asked after the health of the Governor, and added, "how is the young Prince?"
The story goes, that she received a valuable grant of land for this well-timed compliment.
A bullock driver, who attended Mrs. Macquarie during one of these visits, annoyed her by swearing
at the cattle: she promised to obtain him his free pardon, if he would only treat the animals
with more civility. A hundred such stories are current; but he who has been accustomed to sift
them, may take them for their worth.]

[Footnote 76: See vol. ii, p. 129, of this History, for an account of bushranging.]

SECTION IV.

In planting the colony of New South Wales, it was requisite to provide a form of government
adapted for a community without precedent. That instituted was equally alien from established
usage. It conferred powers on the governor beyond the dreams of ordinary princes, and violated
all the constitutional guarantees which support the rights of subjects. The American colonies
derived their constitutions, some from the prerogatives of the crown, others from parliament,
under acts prescribing their structure and limiting their jurisdiction. In some cases the British
legislature authorised the crown to convey the powers of government at its own discretion,
and its own agents. In the reign of George III.[77] the parliament passed the Quebec Act, which
defined the powers of Canadian legislation and judicature, and thus established a course that
has never since been abandoned.

The immediate design and composition of the Australian colony precluded the forms of constitutional
freedom: the object of the laws and regulations were but remotely connected with the ordinary
interests of British citizens. Having obtained, therefore, the authority to institute a government,
the crown put into commission the powers it received, but left to the local authorities to
interpret and apply them.[78]

The court of criminal jurisdiction was composed of seven officers, of whom the judge advocate
was one. It could only assemble on the summons of the governor: his precept determined who,
or whether any should sit, and thus regulated the jury: as their commander his influence was
great--greater, as the dispenser of royal patronage.

The powers of the grand jury devolved on the judge advocate, who framed the indictment, and
determined beforehand the probability of guilt: he thus sat in a cause which he had judged
already. The prosecutor conducted his own case: witnesses were examined in open court, and
the accused was unassisted by counsel. Nor was unanimity required: yet five in seven were necessary
in capital cases, to authorise an immediate execution. The judge advocate deliberated with
his co-jurors in secret, and the court was re-opened only when they had agreed upon their verdict,
and determined the sentence. Thus in ordinary cases the weight of authority in deciding guilt,
as well as apportioning punishment, usually rested with an officer officially connected with
the government. The operation of this court was liable to serious constitutional objections.
It was in the power of the governor to exclude the subject from the protection of the law,
by shutting up the court, and by the arbitrary selection of its members to anticipate its decision.

In conducting the business of the court, its members dispensed with the niceties of law, and
gave their verdict upon what appeared to be the substantial merits of the case. From the age
of fourteen, the first judge advocate had been employed in the royal marine service, and whatever
intelligence his writings display, they exhibit utter disregard of rights recognised by the
British constitution. His successors in office, for two-and-twenty years, until the appointment
of Mr. Ellis Bent, were gentlemen connected with the military profession, who were unassisted,
except by such lawyers as the lottery of transportation threw in their way: thus, while they
were limited by parliament to a jurisdiction according to the laws of the realm,[79] they were
more than usually unacquainted with their nature, and indifferent to their observance.

Such were the inherent defects of this form of judicature, from the large influence possessed
by the executive; which could determine the time of sitting and the members of the court; which
denied the right of challenge, and accepted the concurrence of five voices only in cases of
life and death--and those of persons subject to the influence of the governor and unaccustomed
to weigh evidence, or to defer to the maxims of civil tribunals. But if the constitution of
the court was a subject of just complaint, the creation of new offences by unauthorised legislation,
was still less acceptable to English statists.

The court proceeded smoothly, so long as none but convicts or persons of trivial influence
were in question; but the dispute with Governor Bligh disclosed the dangers with which it was
fraught: the sympathy of the jurors with the accused frustrated his prosecution, and overthrew
the executive.

The esprit du corps of the jurors occasionally appeared in their verdict: the decision of a
cause in which an officer was the aggressor, or one which interested the passions, did not
command the confidence of the people.

The jeopardy of justice was illustrated by a dispute, in which the Rev. Mr. Marsden was complainant,
and the secretary of the governor the defendant. Mr. Campbell was the censor of the New South
Wales press: he admitted an article, which imputed to Mr. Marsden (1817) the abuse of his office
as agent for the missionary societies, and of using muskets and gunpowder as articles of traffic
with the natives of the Pacific. The judge advocate in this instance was said to attempt to
shelter the offender by the influence of his three-fold office--as the law adviser of the governor,
the public prosecutor, and member of the court of criminal jurisdiction. His reluctance to
admit the evidence, and to take the preliminary steps in the prosecution, and his direction
to deliver an inoperative verdict, were held fatal evidences that impartiality could not be
secured by uniting functions so inconsistent with each other.

The jurors were not unfrequently interested: in some instances the prosecutor sat as witness
and judge, giving the principal evidence in the case in which he was both to decide the guilt
and apportion the punishment.[80]

The establishment of a court of criminal jurisdiction was alone authorised by the parliament:
the necessity for supplemental laws was not foreseen, but was soon perceived. The governors
assumed the legislative authority, under the disguise of orders and regulations, often contrary
to the principles of English law, and sustained by penalties unknown in Great Britain. These
were not collated until a late period: their provisions were imperfectly promulgated. In enforcing
them, the governors relied on the impotence of resistance, and justified their enactment on
the ground of expediency.

Had the parliament conveyed a legislative power, the ordinary precautions and limitations would
have been embodied for that purpose: thus the free subjects of the king would have known the
extent of their liabilities, both to prohibitions and penalties. An unfettered despotism drew
no distinction, but rejected all questions of legality as contumacious.

Among the subordinate officers, were some high in rank, natives of France, who had emigrated
during the revolution, or had by incurring the hatred of its government deserved the patronage
of our own. Profoundly indifferent to the rights of freedom, and ignorant of the forms or proper
subjects of judicial investigation, an "order" was far more sacred in their eyes, than the
volumes of Blackstone. English gentlemen might have recalled the solemn warnings of history
which check aggressions on private liberty, but an exiled adherent of Bourbon princes was not
likely to be embarrassed by educational prejudices. Not that British officers were really more
scrupulous, or offered by their habits a better guarantee for the legality of their administration.[81]

The minor offences of prisoners passed under the summary adjudication of magistrates. They
often indulged in the lowest humour or furious passion: they applied torture to extract confessions,
and repeated flagellation until it became dangerous to life.

The long delay of legislative remedies, when omissions and defects were discovered, is a proof
of ministerial indifference. The crown provided a court of criminal jurisdiction for Port Phillip:
the jurisdiction was strictly local, and the judge advocate ceased to act when Van Diemen's
Land was occupied; but twenty years elapsed before the deficiency was supplied. Again, the
criminal court of New South Wales was limited to islands adjacent to the eastern coast.[82]
The discovery of Bass's Strait proved that Van Diemen's Land was not included in this geographical
definition, and the scrupulous or idle judges for a long time evaded the holding of courts
in this island, which was thus surrendered to disorder. In the absence of a legal court, the
magistrates set up a jurisdiction of their own. Criminal trials were dispatched by the simplest
process, and the mixed penalties of a military and civil court inflicted on the assumed offender.[83]
Thus, the negligent provision for the administration of justice secured impunity to crime,
or seemed to require an arbitrary tribunal.

The proclamation of martial law, was to relieve the government from the restraints of forms.
The facility with which justice could be administered by it, was illustrated at the Castle
Hill insurrection: no life being lost on the government side, the victorious troops arranged
that every third man convicted should be hanged. They drew the names of the sufferers by lot,
and were proceeding with great vigour, when the appearance of the governor suspended the execution.[84]
The dangerous usurpation in both Norfolk Island and Van Diemen's Land, led to the hasty sacrifice
of life.

The scarcity of corn was once deemed a sufficient justification, when there was no appearance
of sedition: at these times the government seized boats, or whatever was deemed useful for
the public service, and imitated the most irregular actions of the Stuarts.

The subordinate authorities were supposed to partake the license of their superiors. One commandant,
Colonel Geils, fixed a spiked collar on the neck of a free woman; another flogged a female
through Hobart Town for abusive language; and another tied up a free man on the spot, for placarding
a grievance, when as yet there was no press.[85] Davey, having ordered a person to the triangles,
answered his remonstrances with a pleasant jest: the sufferer reminded him that he could not
flog him; the governor answered that "he would try," and the flagellator soon determined the
problem in favor of authority. Indignant exclamations of free men were deemed preposterous
by a body of officials, who regarded the diffidence of civil government as absurd, and considered
power as the standard of right.

The administration of justice is described by a work of the times:--"I have known," wrote a
contemporary witness, "men, without trial, sentenced to transportation by a single magistrate
at his own door: free men, after being acquitted by a court of criminal judicature, banished
to another of the dependant settlements. I have heard a magistrate tell a prisoner (then being
examined for a capital offence, and who had some goods, supposed to be stolen, for which he
would not account), that were he not going to be hanged so soon, he (the magistrate) would
make him say whence he got them. I have known depositions destroyed by the magistrate."[86]

The courts were limited by the laws in force within the realm, but the realm was not defined;[87]
and thus what portion of the law was applicable, was left in thirty years' doubt, until the
commissioner royal stated that the omission had prevented several executions.[88] The same
number of years were required to ascertain whether laws passed in Great Britain subsequent
to the era of colonisation were the laws of the colony.

Law officers of the crown were permitted to define authoritatively the import of acts of parliament,
and on their official decisions the colonial judge convicted, and the governor executed a criminal.[89]

The persons commissioned as justices constituted a court in avowed conformity with such tribunals
in England, but they adjudicated on the orders of the governor, and inflicted the penalties
he appointed; though the supreme court, sitting concurrently with these "benches," rejected
the legislation of the governor as invalid, when the basis of an action: one judge supported
them by his moral countenance, although he knew them to be without legal authority.[90] Judge
Advocate Wylde, however, declared the legislative authority of the governor equally binding
with acts of parliament--a doctrine never surpassed by the most subservient advocates of an
unlimited monarchy.[91]

The crown authorised the governor to grant remissions, but while he omitted the formalities
requisite to perfect those pardons, the minister neglected to require them. For thirty years
the error was undetected, and until a fraudulent creditor evaded a bill due to an emancipist;
but several years were allowed to pass, even when the mistake was discovered, before it was
fully corrected.

The ministers authorised the governors to grant land to settlers. For forty-six years these
delegates divided the domain of their sovereign, as if it were his personal property, and without
the consent of parliament, when a court of this colony decided that all such titles were void
in law, whether acquired by purchase or under the old quit-rent tenure.[92]

Above two hundred thousand pounds had been levied by successive governors since the illegality
of taxation was first submitted to the notice of the cabinet. In gathering this money, not
only had property been seized, destroyed, and confiscated, but many persons had been imprisoned,
and suffered all the miseries of felon bonds: yet when arrears, which the indulgence of the
government had permitted to accumulate, were made a subject of legal procedure, the whole fabric
of taxation and legislation by the governor's will, fell down.[93]

The judge of the supreme court could not be insensible to the serious personal responsibility
of longer supporting illegal taxation: he privately admonished the governor, who withdrew his
actions. An act of indemnity released the ministers who advised, and the governors who enforced
their demands, from the punishment of usurpation; and granted them power to do by law, what
in defiance of law they had done so long.[94]

Ingenious aggravations were made to the common penalties of a crime: Collins relates that a
witness convicted of perjury, was condemned to the pillory: his ears nailed to the post as
an additional punishment.[95]

The courts of those times confounded everything together, and deciding the perjury of a witness,
often tried two parties at the same moment. Flogging witnesses was an ordinary result of investigations,
when they did not end in convictions: so late as 1823, Judge Wylde ordered a witness to be
taken outside, and receive instanter one hundred lashes.[96]

The long privation of this colony of judicial protection, not only hindered the due administration
of justice, but encouraged imprudence and fraud. In the year 1814, when the crown erected a
supreme court at Sydney for the decision of civil causes, Major Abbot, a member of the New
South Wales corps, was commissioned as deputy judge advocate in Van Diemen's Land. He adjudicated
in petty session as a magistrate, and by the accommodation of law to the circumstances of the
colony, dealt in a summary manner with capital offences where prisoners were concerned. Thus
sheep stealing and crimes against the person, committed by prisoners, were punished by flogging,
and removal to a more penal station; and thus, while a prisoner of the crown might escape with
a milder sentence, free persons for similar offences were placed in jeopardy of their lives.

"The experiment of a reformatory penal colony," said Sir James Mackintosh, "is the grandest
ever tried; but New South Wales is governed on principles of political economy more barbarous
than those which prevailed under Queen Bess."[97] This great statesman, who declared no provincial
sphere seemed to him so worthy a noble ambition, as to become the legislator for these colonies,
never failed to denounce the accumulation of illegality and folly.

At this stage of our inquiry, it may be proper to scan this singular government. The legislators
who authorised its establishment, prescribed as little as possible: all beyond the repression
of crime was hidden from their eyes. They saw that punishments must be necessary, and provided
for their infliction; but the complicated arrangements which grew out of the colonisation,
were left to the adjustment of chance, or the discrimination of ministers, and ultimately to
the caprice of naval and military governors.

The extemporary character of their contrivance and expedients, is sufficiently apparent. Nothing
was expected: nothing was dreaded: no checks were opposed to abuses. Thus acts of tyranny were
perpetrated beyond the ordinary excesses of arbitrary governments, and all classes were confounded
in one regimen of despotism. The commencing measures manifested their indifference to personal
rights. Intending to banish men for life, the ministers selected for the first fleet chiefly
persons whose crimes only forfeited their freedom for a few years. By withholding, or neglecting
to forward lists of their names, their crimes, or their sentences, they consigned them not
only to perpetual exile but protracted and illegal bondage. Imitating the ministers of the
crown, the governor imposed compulsory labor on free men, or detained them when their liberation
was notoriously due.

Thus again, law had conveyed power to the king to deliver prisoners by assignment to shippers,
but jealous of trusting the executive, the actual transportation could only be carried out
as the result of a covenant with private persons. Regardless of these well-advised precautions,
the ministers delivered prisoners to ships of war, in custody of captains in the royal navy,
bound to obey the orders of the crown; and when loud remonstrances induced them to obtain a
legislative sanction to the innovation, they were silent in reference to the past, and trusted
in their party influence to protect their own agents from legal penalties.[98] No wonder, with
such examples before them, the governors detained or released at their pleasure.

Bentham was the first to protest against this illegal and violent system of government, as
opposed to every principle made sacred by the Revolution, by judicial decisions, or by the
oaths of sovereigns. He asserted that the movers and ministers of these despotic proceedings
were liable, one and all, to the visitations of the most penal laws.[99] They had legislated
without warrant, had detained free persons in bondage, levied illegal duties and imposed unconstitutional
restrictions, and had inflicted cruel punishments for crimes invented by themselves. The apology
for usurpation, was its obvious importance and general utility; but no one will dissent from
the strong indignation expressed by the philosopher, at wanton violations of British law, neglect
of personal rights and parliamentary privileges.

Governor King, it is believed, first established customs.[100] Hunter had assessed the property
of the colonists, upon obtaining the consent of several, for the erection of a gaol.[101] The
poorer inhabitants refused to comply with the levy, and were threatened with vengeance: they
knew that however useful, such taxes were illegal though otherwise just. Thus, although legislation
was not shadowed by the parliamentary act, the governors assumed it in its amplest form. Among
the earliest were orders respecting the production and sale of spirits: to this, the oriental
penalty was attached--"his still shall be destroyed, and his house pulled down." Infraction
of this law was subsequently punished by imprisonment and transportation.

Of torture, to extort confession, we have ample proof, both written and traditional: of one
Collins observes, "when he trifled he was punished again; he then declared that the plunder
was buried. He went to the spot, but could not find it; he was then taken to the hospital."
Another was tortured in the same form; but, adds the judge, "the constancy of the wretched
man was astonishing:"[102] he was in consequence acquitted! This practice continued for twenty
years, and in 1825 a prosecution was instituted against a magistrate for attempting to extract
confession by torture.

The tendency of undefined power to run into tyranny, is illustrated by Macquarie himself. He
had prohibited the entrance of strangers within the government grounds, and to detect the offenders
stationed constables on the spot, who lay in ambush: three men and two servant girls were captured
and committed. The next morning, the men each received twenty-five lashes, by the written order
of the governor: the women were detained in the cells for forty-eight hours. There was no appeal
to law; and the sole actors were the governor and the gaoler. A process so simple was no longer
to be tolerated: the public were alarmed.[103] The assumption of magisterial powers was not
compatible with the office of the governor; but to authorise the flagellation of free men without
trial, for a perhaps innocent trespass, was both dangerous and unjust.

This was, perhaps, the last instance of such extravagant despotism, and it exposed Macquarie
to much inquietude during his life. That a person so humane in his general character should
forget the precautions due in equity and in law, and punish arbitrarily for imaginary offences,
proved that no power is safely bestowed, unless its objects and extent are minutely defined.

The civil, called the "Governor's Court," was instituted by George III. in virtue of his prerogative.
It consisted of the judge advocate, and two inhabitants chosen by the governor: it was empowered
to decide in a summary manner all pleas in relation to property and contracts, and it granted
probates of wills.

When convicts contracted pecuniary obligations, the governor specially withdrew them from liability
to arrest; and told the creditors that in trusting these debtors their opinion of their honesty
must be their sole guarantee: government could not spare "the servants of the public" from
their toils to answer the plaints of suitors.[104]

From its decisions, a cause could be carried to the governor; and in sums exceeding £300, to
the king in council.

Though unsanctioned by an act of parliament, this court departed widely from the practice of
England. Its authority was keenly disputed by Bentham; and Commissioner Bigge, in stating its
origin and operation, hints a similar doubt.[105]

Undisturbed by objections the crown, by the patents and commissions of 1814, separated the
criminal jurisdiction from the civil, and created a supreme court, which adopted the English
practice. By the new patent, an appeal was permitted from the supreme court to the "High Court
of Appeals," consisting of the governor and the judge advocate; and, except when £3,000 were
in issue, his judgment was final![106] To both these tribunals the Tasmanians were amenable;
but in civil cases the appointment (1814) of a local court under the deputy judge advocate,
terminated the absolute dependence on Port Jackson for judicial relief. Plaints for debts not
exceeding £50 were entertained by this court, and creditors contrived to bring their claims
within its jurisdiction, by dividing the amount into bills of £50. This evasion of the law,
although it defeated the intention of a superior court and lessened its business, was useful
to both parties; it decreased the difficulty and expenses of suits. It was more equitable in
its operation than the supreme court: the owner of a vessel could carry up his own witnesses
to Sydney, and at the termination of a trial convey them home without delay; but the less opulent
debtor or creditor found himself practically excluded from redress.

Mr. Judge Abbot was, however, not eager to assume his office, and it was not until 1816 that
he commenced operations. The accumulation of debts must have been great, for at his first session
fourteen hundred plaints were entered: nor did he exhaust the suitors by delay, for eleven
hundred were disposed of during that year. Two inhabitants, chosen by the governor sat as assessors;
and being known, and knowing all parties, they often discussed in private beforehand the causes
awaiting their verdict![107]

The deputy judge advocate held in contempt the net-work of the law, by which equitable rights
are sometimes entangled: his was a court of request without appeal, and he took pleasure in
asserting its finality. For the convenience of suitors he allowed agents to practice in his
court: these gentlemen had somewhat more legal knowledge than the judge, and often exasperated
his antipathies by its ostentation. They would dwell on the dignity of his court: his decision
was irrevocable; even the lord chancellor of England, they would say, was subject to the revision
of a still higher court than his own, but the deputy judge advocate decided the cause for ever.
Trusted with such resistless jurisdiction--such onerous responsibility, how great must be his
care to avoid an error beyond correction--an injustice that could not be undone but by an act
of parliament! Such were their addresses: occasionally heard with complacency--and, it is said,
not always unsuccessful. The most famous of these practitioners were Messrs. R. L. Murray and
Evan Henry Thomas. The last gentleman was an emigrant, and issued a rhetorical advertisement
for employment as a preceptor; but renouncing that calling, he provided himself with a blue
bag, the sole qualification essential, and paraded the vicinity of the court: here some suitor
found him. What he wanted in experience he made up by industry; and thus carrying his cause,
established his reputation as a pleader.

Abbott was a lover of fair play: when one of these gentlemen stated a cause, he expressed a
wish that the other side could be placed in as clear a light. Willing to show how well he comprehended
the case, the agent for the plaintiff set before the court what the defendant might allege;
and Abbott, admitting its force, determined in his favor! The equitable judge decided that
the plaintiff should pay the defendant the unsought balance of his bill.

On such a primitive plan were minor rights protected. Although the decisions were often grounded
on imperfect proof, the substantial equity of Abbott's adjudications was rarely questioned.
In cases under £5 the court received no fee, but in higher causes a small sum was paid. The
agents obtained what they could, as the recompense of their professional toils.

Major Abbott continued to preside as deputy judge advocate, until his office was abolished.
After visiting England he returned to Launceston with the appointment of civil commandant.
He died in 1832: the inhabitants spontaneously honored his funeral. He was esteemed as a person
of a generous nature and upright intentions. Major Abbott entered the army at the age of thirteen:
he was in the service of the crown fifty-three years, forty-three of which were spent in the
colonies.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 77: 14 Geo. iii. c. 83.]

[Footnote 78: "Whereas it may be found necessary that a colony and a civil government should
be established, and that a court of criminal jurisdiction should also be established, with
authority to proceed in a more summary way than is used within this realm, according to the
known and established laws thereof." The court, described as above, is then authorised, to
try "outrages and misbehaviours, as if committed in this realm would be treason or misprision
thereof, felony or misdemeanour."--27 Geo. iii. Nothing is said of legislative power.]

[Footnote 79: Collins, vol. i. p. 32.]

[Footnote 80: Bigge's Jud. Report, p. 34.]

[Footnote 81: Holt has left a graphic picture of a justice, which must be received, perhaps,
with some reservation;--"I was walking with Barrington, the most accomplished pickpocket: he
was arm-in-arm with Richard Atkins, Esq. I wished to have some conversation with them. A bottle
of rum was produced, and some pleasant conversation about Ireland passed. At length I wished
to retire, and Mr. A. said he never allowed any bottle off his table till he saw it emptied.
We finished the half gallon bottle, and of course were not a little elevated. Mr. A. acted
as a kind of deputy, when Judge Dore was not able, which not unfrequently happened: when spirits
were plenty in the colony, he was generally indisposed." Mr. Croker adds, that "Atkins was
appointed as a substitute to Collins in 1796, by the secretary of state, until the arrival
of Mr. Dore in 1797."]

[Footnote 82: Bigge's Jud. Report, p. 2.

At Norfolk Island a court of criminal jurisdiction departed still further from the precedents
of civil justice. An act authorised the government to convene a court of four military or naval
officers, to decide on questions of life and death, even when free men were implicated.]

[Footnote 83: "Yesterday, the bench assembled, when a free man, formerly belonging to Fort
Dalrymple, was found guilty of stealing a silver watch from George Guest, jun., his property,
and sentenced to labor for the government for the term of five years, and moreover to receive
500 lashes."--Derwent Star, Feb. 6th, 1810.]

[Footnote 84: Holt's Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 202.]

[Footnote 85: Such punishments were not always unmerited, but they were capricious. A magistrate
tied a carter to the wheel of his waggon, and inflicted 300 lashes for cruelty to his bullocks;
but Dr. Montgarret ordered the blacksmith to be flogged, for presenting his bill!]

[Footnote 86: Mann's Picture of New South Wales, 1811.]

[Footnote 87: Bentham's Plea.]

[Footnote 88: Bigge's Jud. Report, p. 17.]

[Footnote 89: Ibid.]

[Footnote 90: Bigge's Jud. Report, p. 6. Wentworth, p. 43. edit. of 1820.]

[Footnote 91: Bigge's Report, p. 48.]

[Footnote 92: Macarthur's New South Wales: its present state and future prospects, 1837.]

[Footnote 93: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 94: 59 Geo. iii. You will smile at the mention of Botany Bay; but I am most serious,
and I assure you that next to a parliamentary situation, to which either nature or early ambition
has constantly directed my views, I should prefer, without much regarding pecuniary advantages,
that of being the lawgiver of Botany Bay.... England, in rearing such a community, is preparing
not only conquerors of India, but enemies to herself and to all mankind. Every day the difficulties
of the experiment grow with the increase of the (criminal) population.... I have heard, read,
and thought so much about this extraordinary colony, that I am very confident in my general
opinions; and I confess, between ourselves, that I am a piece of an enthusiast in my reforming
projects," &c.]

[Footnote 98: 43 Geo. iii.]

[Footnote 99: "Not a governor, not a magistrate, that has acted thus, but has exposed himself
to prosecutions upon prosecutions, to actions upon actions, from which not even the crown can
save him."--Bentham's Plea for the Constitution, 1804.]

[Footnote 100: Wentworth, p. 389. 1820.]

[Footnote 101: Collins, vol. ii. p. 214.]

[Footnote 102: Collins, vol. i. p. 268.]

[Footnote 103: Bigge's Jud. Report, p. 76.]

[Footnote 104: Collins.]

[Footnote 105: Bigge's Jud. Report.]

[Footnote 106: Ibid.]

[Footnote 107: Ibid.]

SECTION V.

William Sorell, Esq., third Lieutenant-governor, landed 8th April, 1817. To restore safety
to the colony was the first duty of the governor: on his assumption of office he called the
inhabitants together, and enabled by their subscriptions he offered large rewards, and thus
inspirited both the soldiers and the constables. In less than three months the greater portion
of the bushrangers were destroyed or captured. During Sorell's administration the colony suffered
no serious disturbance from outlaws. This display of rigour was followed by judicious precautions:
he ascertained more frequently the distribution and employment of the prisoners of the crown,
and removed many temptations to disorder and crime.

It was the practice, established first a few months after his arrival, to muster the whole
population annually. Notice was sent through the districts, requiring the attendance of the
several classes, who accounted for their families and their stock: the name, the residence,
and civil condition of every inhabitant became known. Sorell thus ascertained the increase
of cultivation and cattle, and whatever indicated progress.

The landing of settlers direct from Great Britain was an important event: their efforts were
experiments, and their achievements were prophetic. The political philosopher may trace in
their errors, trials, and successes, the lessons afforded by experience for the instruction
of nations. The rapid advance of modern colonisation tends to underrate the first efforts of
our predecessors. The first colonial boat-builder founded a great commercial navy; the first
shepherd held in his slender flock a treasure of unimaginable worth.

The arrival of many emigrants led to the exploration of the country. The hunters were usually
the pioneers, but beyond the general features of the scenery, they afforded little information:
wild cattle were the better guides. To provide a settlement for strangers, Sorell explored
the region lying between the Shannon and the Clyde to its junction with the Derwent; free from
timber, and within twenty miles of navigable waters. At this district were located several
distinguished settlers.

The narrow grants and wretched homesteads of the emancipist cotters, the sole farmers at the
time of this immigration, presented but little to please. The settler, whose imagination pictured
the rustic beauties and quiet order of an English farm, saw unfenced fields of grain, deformed
with blackened stumps: a low cottage of the meanest structure,[108] surrounded by heaps of
wool, bones, and sheepskins; harrows and water carts amidst firewood; mutton and kangaroo strung
on the branches of trees; idle and uncleanly men, of different civil condition but of one class;
tribes of dogs and natives. No green hedges or flowery meadows, or notes of the thrush or nightingale;
but yet there was the park-like lands, the brilliant skies, the pure river; and, above all,
the untainted breath of the morning.

In 1820, there were only two estates, those of Mr. E. Lord and Colonel Davey, on which fences
were erected; and the destructive incursions of cattle were subjects of many complaints: yet
in that year £20,000 had been obtained for wheat exported to Sydney. The first crops were prolific:
the early settlers chose the more fertile and open plains; and many selected sites for their
dwellings on natural lawns of surpassing beauty.

The dispatch of vessels direct from England rapidly increased the population: in one year (1822)
six hundred settlers entered the port, and by the capital which they invested, and the habits
of decency and enterprise they exhibited, gave a new tone to the colony. A succession of publications
drew attention at home to the capabilities of Van Diemen's Land. It was described in the Quarterly
Review (May, 1820) by a friendly pen, which stated that during three years, a detachment of
one hundred men had not lost three, and that Hobart Town had been sixteen months without a funeral.

The work of Lieutenant Jeffries, who spent several months in a passage from Sydney to Van Diemen's
Land, and who wrote much in praise of the native women, and the pleasures of a bush life, drew
a pleasing picture. The more sober sketch of Captain Dixon, and the copious delineations of
Mr. Wentworth, directed the public curiosity to Tasmania. For several successive years new
books were published, describing the fertility of the soil and the beauty of the climate. These
generally contained a theory of pastoral increase--a geometrical progression towards wealth.
The increase was, indeed, rapid beyond oriental precedent. Between 1810 and 1820, it was estimated
at fifty fold.[109] The adaptation of these colonies for the growth of wool first drew the
attention of several gentlemen of Hamburgh, whose importations afterwards promoted the improvement
of our flocks.

The position of Van Diemen's Land favored its settlement. Vessels bound to Port Jackson often
touched at the Derwent to discharge portions of their cargo; and weary with the length of the
voyage, emigrants listened to the persuasions of the colonists, and the hints of the lieutenant-governor
himself.

The advantages offered to settlers, so late as 1818, included not only grants of land, but
loans of stock and seed; and a price for wheat, long standing at 10s. per bushel, and for meat
6d. per lb. The settlers were entitled to rations for themselves and their convict servants
for six months. It was stipulated that the stock should be replaced by the increase, and the
wheat repaid at the harvest. Such engagements were, however, rarely fulfilled. No suits could
be prosecuted by the crown in the local court, and vague threats of disfavor were the only
means of recovery: these were understood as formalities. The crown, by the prohibition of distillation,
prevented a consumption of grain, and until a fixed price was given corn had been sometimes
of no value whatever. A partial market was assured, to prevent the total neglect of agriculture.
The patronage, of course, led to official corruption: many officers received wheat from their
servants in commutation of labor, and some of more than usual inferiority was thus admitted
by a Launceston commandant, a refugee Frenchman, who threatened to transport the storekeeper
for calling in question its quality. The Commissioner Bigge recommended the bounty should be
entirely abolished, distillation permitted, and supplies purchased by tender. A deficiency
could be no longer apprehended. There were 7,400 inhabitants, at the close of 1821, who possessed
15,000 cultivated acres, 35,000 horned cattle, 170,000 sheep, 550 horses, and 5,000 swine.
With such resources, the danger of famine finally disappeared.

The herds were composed chiefly of Bengal cattle, imported at an early period; but the emigrants
introduced the most valued of the English breeds, which have entirely supplanted the early
stock. The herbage and the climate are equally favorable to the increase of cattle.

The interior of the country being quiet, tickets of occupation were granted to settlers, who
were enabled to establish large herds and flocks on the lands of the crown. The scarcity of
provision in New South Wales soon created a considerable demand for the produce of this country,
and in 1820 meat, to the value of £10,000, was purchased by the crown for exportation.[110]

Macquarie, when his administration was drawing to a close, came on a tour of inspection to
Van Diemen's Land. He arrived in the Midas. The squally weather, which prevented his immediate
landing, gave time to prepare for his reception. He disembarked on the 24th April, 1821, saluted
from the battery, and by the military, who lined the road to the government house. At his former
visit in 1810, the population did not exceed 1,500. A few scattered and miserable huts, separated
by thoroughfares but half recovered from the forests, then constituted the capital, which had
now acquired something of an English aspect: there were 426 houses, and 2,700 souls.

Few scenes are more pleasing than those which, assisted by memory, display the growth and triumph
of industry. The gratification of all parties was visible, and a general illumination closed
the day. It was a day of pardons and bounty: when the prisoner received his liberty and the
settler his heritage: every inhabitant who had no plaint to prefer, had yet thanks to pay.
The bachelors of Hobart Town gave a public ball to the governor: one hundred and fifty sat
down to supper, and the gentlemen danced together until the morning.

On the 29th June, Macquarie sailed in the Caroline: he was accompanied to the water's edge
by a large concourse of people, and carried with him applauses which his amiable vanity prized,
and which his beneficence deserved.

Macquarie inserted in the Sydney Gazette the details of his progress, and observations. Whatever
he described, he lauded: the architectural taste of the private buildings; the handsome church;
the commodious military barracks; the strong gaol; the well constructed hospital. The enterprise
and industry of the people; their spacious harbour; their battery, signal post and pier--are
all distinguished with the minuteness of an auctioneer's catalogue, and nearly in its phrases.

During his progress he gave names, among which many remain memorials of his love of country:
Staffa Ulra, and Olmaig; Perth, Campbell Town, Oatlands, Strathallen Creek, Roseneath. The
townships of Sorell, Brighton and Elizabeth, were designated by him: the last in honor of his
wife. His own name is found everywhere.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 108: There is nothing new under the sun. The following description of a New England
cottage, on the Penka-tang River, in 1704, is given in the journal of Madame Knight:--"It was
supported with shores (posts), inclosed with clapboards laid on lengthways, and so much asunder
that the light came thro every where; the doore tyed on with a cord in ye place of hinges;
the floor the bare earth. No windows but such as the thin covering afforded, nor any furniture
but a bedd with a glass bottle hanging at ye head on't. An earthen cupp, a small pewter bason,
a bord with sticks to stand on instead of a table, and a block or too in ye corners insted
of chairs."]

[Footnote 109: Wentworth, vol. ii. p. 93.]

[Footnote 110: The following is a list of exports from Van Diemen's Land to Sydney in six years:--

  Wheat valued at 10s., and Meat at 6d.

Year.   Bushels Wheat.   lbs. of Salt Meat.    £

 1815        1,770               --            885
 1816       13,135             10,000        6,817
 1817       15,240              8,000        7,820
 1818        7,990             64,640        5,611
 1819       24,768            346,800       21,054
 1820       47,131            386,000       33,225

Wentworth, vol. ii. p. 32.

Lands granted from 1818 to 1821, from 25,000 to 273,000 acres; population from 3,557 to 7,360;
in cultivation, from 5,080 to 15,005 acres.]

SECTION VI.

The Australian colonies owe their pastoral wealth originally to Captain John Macarthur, of
the 102nd regiment: he was assisted by the enterprise of Captain Waterhouse, of the royal navy,
who, though a sailor and confessedly ignorant of pastoral affairs, conveyed to the colony the
stock which laid the foundation of its fortunes. The sheep brought by the first fleet to New
South Wales, were sacrificed to the necessities of the time: the cattle strayed, and were discovered
long after grazing on the Nepean, increased to many hundreds. Several efforts were made by
the New South Wales Corps to introduce a stock, chiefly for the knife; but the transmission
was attended with considerable difficulty, and the greater portion died.

The basis of the New South Wales flocks was the Bengal: these, bearing hair, were mixed with
sheep originally from Holland, and imported from the Cape. Mr. Macarthur having obtained some
sheep from Ireland,[111] remarked the great, though accidental improvement in the fleece, which
exhibited a mixture of wool, and gave the first hint of a great possible improvement. He then
requested Captain Kent to procure sheep from the merino flocks of Colonel Gordon, at the Cape.
These were forwarded by Captain Waterhouse (1797), who delivered to Macarthur three rams and
five ewes, and retained a proportion himself.

The results surpassed expectation. The flocks of Bengal yielded to three or four crossings,
and produced the finest wool. Thus the heaviest fleece, in 1801, was 3-1/2 lbs.: the next season
it improved to 5 lbs. The ewe produced wool worth 9d., her lamb's wool was valued at 3s.; and
even the merino improved by the exchange of climate: its wool produced at the Cape being worth
4s. 6d., and at New South Wales 6s. The rate of increase was not less encouraging: the produce
of fifty ewes, in seven years, was two thousand.

In 1803, Captain Macarthur visited England, and presented a memorial to the lords of the committee
of the privy council on the pastoral capabilities of New South Wales. He requested the crown
to grant the use of public lands and servants, and offered to supply the commissariat at a
given price, and to sustain the entire risk or loss of his experiment. The statement of increase
was doubted: the testimony respecting the quality of wool could not be disputed, as Macarthur
had procured the certificates of eminent manufacturers. It was, however, asserted that the
natural pasture would be unable to subsist flocks, and it was necessary to combat this objection.
Macarthur proposed to sell his flock at their value to a company, and on credit; on condition
that the company procured a grant from the crown for pasture. This was declined; but Lord Camden
was requested by their lordships to encourage Macarthur, and he received in consequence permission
to occupy the cow pastures, where natural fences prevented the intermixture of his flocks.
A grant of 5,000 acres--ultimately of an additional 5,000--was made to him. Never was a reward
more justly due, or given with less sacrifice.[112]

Mr. Macarthur procured from the royal flock at Kew, one ewe and nine rams:[113] with these
he raised his flock to 6,000 (1818), and frequently sold pure merino rams at from £14 to £28
per head.

The merino stock of George III., from which the Australian stocks were partly drawn, was sent
to that monarch by the Spanish cortes. The king's love of rural pleasures was thus instrumental
in adding immense wealth to his empire.

It was not until 1820, that settlers of Van Diemen's Land entered the career of improvement.
The original stock were introduced by Colonel Paterson: a mixture of Teeswater, Leicester,
and Bengal breeds. The lieutenant-governor was anxious to improve the quality by an importation
of merino lambs. By an engagement with Macarthur, three hundred were shipped at Sydney;[114]
but more than one-third died: the rest were distributed to the settlers by lot, who gave the
engagements to repay at the stipulated sum, and who received facilities for the experiment
in suitable tickets of occupation. Macarthur received, at 7s. 6d. per acre, 4,368 acres of
land for the 300 lambs, valued to the crown at £5 per head.[115] From this date the wool of
the Tasmanian flocks became known to commerce.

Van Diemen's Land wool was not an article of export until 1819. Only 71,000 pounds had been
sent to London from New South Wales, but some had realised even 7s. 6d. per lb.; in one instance
10s., it is said, by a friendly competition: a sum three times greater than the English price
of the finest continental wool. A specimen had been manufactured for George IV., and which
so pleased him that he directed Sir J. Bloomfield to enquire if more could be obtained in England.
There seemed now no hesitation in giving credit to Macarthur's prediction, that the boundless
pastures of New South Wales would relieve the manufacturers of dependence on Spain.

That great encouragement had not been afforded, and greater progress accomplished, may be considered
surprising. The wool of commerce was still inconsiderable; although the flocks of both colonies
amounted to 200,000. Before the merino was first introduced, the fleece was considered worthless.
The operation of shearing was often delayed until the sheep were injured: it was a deduction
from the profit. The wool was burned, or thrown into the stock-yards as manure.

In 1819, the captain of the Regalia accepted a proportion of Van Diemen's Land wool, in exchange
for merchandise: it had no market price, its expenses were considerable, and a duty of 3d.
was levied at London. A sample was seen by Mr. Hopkins lying in the docks in the worst possible
condition: the speculation was a failure. The colonial government bought several tons a few
months after at 3d. per lb. for mattresses, a sum that scarcely paid for its conveyance from
the interior. The duty, formerly 3d., was reduced, on the recommendation of the commissioner,
to 1d. per lb.

To Mr. Henry Hopkins the public are indebted for the first appreciation of Tasmanian wool.
In September, 1821, he offered by advertisement a price in money, and bought at 4d. per lb.
Twelve bales sold in London, the entire wool export of the colony, for 7d. per lb., or £88:
the expenses were nearly half that sum. The merchants, however, continued to purchase, and
the settlers to improve their flocks. In 1823, five hundred and fifty bales were exported in
the Deveron, and an equal quantity in other vessels; and the wool of Clarendon rivalled the
flocks at Port Jackson.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 111: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 112: Par. Pap.]

[Footnote 113: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 114: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 115: Par. Pap.]

SECTION VII.

The Britannia, a vessel the property of Messrs. Enderby and Sons, first discovered the whale
fishery.[116] On doubling the south-west cape of Van Diemen's Land the crew saw sperm whales:
in their progress to Port Jackson they fell in with prodigious shoals, as far as could be seen
from the mast head. On arriving at Port Jackson the captain secretly informed the governor,
who facilitated his preparation for a cruise. The sailors, however, did not conceal their observation,
and two other vessels, the Mary Ann and Matilda, sailed one day before the Britannia and the
Salamander, on the 1st November, 1791. On their departure they encountered bad weather, but
saw whales in great plenty. The attempt was, for the moment, unsuccessful. Great expectations
were formed by the colonists, who anticipated that this port would be a rendezvous of fishermen.
This fishery, pursued since with so much vigour, was of little immediate value to Van Diemen's
Land.

The duties payable on exports from the colonies were both excessive and unequal; especially
in oil, the difference amounting to almost absolute prohibition; being twenty times greater
than by London ships. The settlers could only procure for their own consumption or the Indian
market. The whalers often carried on their operations in sight of the towns, and heaps of bone
at that period lay on the eastern shore. Of the first whale taken in the Derwent, Jorgen Jorgenson
declared himself the captor.

The trading pursuits of the inhabitants were fettered by the privilege of the East India Company.
The act of parliament authorising its charter, prohibited the employment of vessels less than
350 tons between England and New South Wales; the small coasting trade was, therefore, solely
eligible to the people of these colonies except in vessels unsuitable to the extent of their
commerce. Thus, even the Mauritius was closed against the corn and meat of this country. This
law was repealed in 1819, and thus vessels of any tonnage could be employed in the colonial trade.

In the islands of the straits sealing was pursued with such vigour, that it was comparatively
exhausted at an early date: small vessels were employed in the dangerous navigation, and not
unfrequently lost.

Few instances of nautical disaster and personal misfortune have surpassed the case of Captain
Howard, in 1819. He was robbed of an iron chest containing money and jewels to a large amount.
Next, the Lachlan, his property, was stolen by convicts. He freighted the Daphne for India,
and sailed with two women and a boy, beside the crew. They anchored at Kent's Group, and Howard
landed. The brig, some hours after, was observed to drift: the wind blowing hard on the shore,
her destruction was inevitable. The long boat was laden, and leaving behind the passengers
and some seamen, Howard after great efforts reached the Derwent. Under his direction, the Governor
Sorell sloop was dispatched to receive the people left on the island. Meanwhile the John Palmer
entered the group, took off the women and the boy, and a bag of 400 dollars left in their charge;
and was lost with the whole of her cargo. Nor was the Governor Sorell more fortunate: the seamen
of the Daphne, who left the island in a boat, saw on the north-east coast of Cape Barren, the
binnacle and other fragments of that vessel, in which Howard perished.

The same fate seemed to attend his property after his death. He had freighted the Frederick
and the Wellington with sheep and cattle for the Isle of France, a market which then offered
large gains. After some delay they reached the Northumberland Islands, off which the stock
all died, from want of room and the influence of climate. Unwilling to proceed without cargo,
the captain detained the vessels for spars. Here the Frederick was wrecked, and twenty-two
of the crew were drowned; but the chief officer, one woman, and a boy, reached the Wellington.
They then proceeded to Timor, constrained on the passage to subsist on the preserved hides
of the cattle. From Timor they proceeded to Batavia: the captain died, and the crew dispersed;
and the vessel was taken under charge by the Orphan Chamber, her register being lost, and her
owners unknown!

A calamity still more singular, may be worth record.[117] The Surrey, Captain Raine, left the
Derwent in 1820. Having heard that men were detained at Ducie's Island, he went there in search
of them. The men came to the beach, but could scarcely articulate from exhaustion: they had
belonged to the Essex, a whaler. One day, a whale of the largest class struck the vessel, and
broke off part of her false keel: she then went a-head of them a quarter of a mile, and turning
back met the vessel with such tremendous velocity that she was driven back at the rate of several
knots: the sea rushed in at the cabin windows; every man on deck was knocked down, and the
bows were completely stove in. The sailors were obliged to abandon the vessel, and after visiting
several islands were found by the Surrey as described.

The strong inclination to trade, common to emigrants, was in these colonies a passion, while
the settlers were of the lower class. The want of coin induced the government to pay the debts
it incurred in rum, which, commonly valued at £1 per bottle, passed from hand to hand. The
commissariat receipts were, however, the chief medium of exchange: they were acknowledgements
of the delivery of goods for the use of the crown. They were paid by the settlers to the merchants,
who on the appointed days presented them for consolidation, and received in return bills on
the lords of the treasury. Every trader issued his notes. The islands of Scotland possessed
a small paper currency, and to that origin were we probably indebted for our own. Dr. Johnson
found such trifling bills in circulation during his celebrated tour. In Hobart Town they were
issued in great profusion.[118] Often of the lowest value, both in amount and in credit, they
kept afloat by the risk which their refusal involved. When presented in small quantities they
were usually paid. A trader rejecting his neighbour's bills would be harrassed by his revenge:
this was, however, done in some instances. A large issuer of notes in Launceston was staggered
by a sudden demand for payment: to maintain his credit he borrowed dollars, and gave additional
notes as security. A few days after they returned, and the same dollars were again borrowed
by the unfortunate financier. The run was devised by his clerk, who managed by such manoeuvres
to obtain a large bonus for negociating a loan of coin. The credit of these notes depended
greatly on the Naval officer, a sort of collector: if admitted in payment of duties, they were
current everywhere. The criminal courts continually exhibited frauds, consequent on these small
issues. The issuers, however, had many chances in their favor: they did not always know their
own notes; but great numbers were destroyed by persons intoxicated, or lost or worn out. The
meaning of payment in currency, they interpreted, as giving one note for another, or four shillings
for five shillings.

The colonial dollars were mutilated to prevent their exportation. In 1810, dollars were imported
from Bengal. To make a smaller coin the centre was struck out, and valued at 1s. 3d.; the ring
retaining its full current value. The crown payed the dollar as five shillings, and received
it as four shillings; thus gaining 20 per cent. in exchange for bills, and in the settlement
of accounts: an injustice so shameful was the subject of parliamentary reprobation, and ultimately
suppressed. In 1824, the Samarang imported £10,000 of British silver, and the lords of the
treasury directed that British coin should be paid to the troops, and taken in exchange for
treasury bills.

The establishment of the Van Diemen's Land Bank (1823) was the most effectual remedy of many
financial difficulties. The traders obtained a charter from Sir Thomas Brisbane: the capital
was divided into shares of 200 dollars, and its direction was committed to a local board.[119]

The issues of individuals were finally suppressed by act of council. The detection of many
frauds enabled the dishonest, with a show of right, to dispute payment. They were sometimes
recovered in the court of request. Justice was once secured by Mr. Hone, in the following manner:--The
defendant was requested to select the notes he admitted to be genuine, and then to hand both
parcels to the bench: these being marked were dropped purposely, and the defendant unsuccessfully
attempting the same division once more, showed that his repudiation was fraudulent, and lost
the cause.

It was the custom to load a cart with goods, and send it through the country: the peddling
merchant exchanged his commodities--a cask of rum, a basket of tobacco, a chest of tea, a bale
of slop clothing--for sheep and cattle. The profits were often enormous: on his return to head
quarters he would appear with a flock worth five times the original cost of his merchandise.[120]

The manners of a people are seen in the courts. A series of trials, arising from the same transaction,
included a considerable portion of the settlers, and illustrated the trading habits which prevailed.
Mr. Gunning being indebted to Mr. Loane, a merchant, agreed to pay him in cattle: this arrangement
was superseded. Fearing, notwithstanding, that his claim would be damaged by a general insolvency,
Loane took with him seven men, and swept from Gunning's premises a herd of various ownership.
For this he was called in question by the police as a felon: in retaliation, he instituted
actions for malicious prosecution. Crossley, an emancipist lawyer, issued summonses, and instructed
the officer to arrest, contrary to standing orders; but Timms, the provost marshal, to exhibit
a spectacle, captured the police magistrate proceeding to government house. The whole settlement
was involved in actions arising out of the debt, rescue, and criminal charge, either as parties
or witnesses. The provost marshal was dismissed for "drunken ignorance." These trials occurred
in 1821, during the circuit of the judge, Barron Field, who was induced, by the representations
of Commissioner Bigge, to hold a session in this colony.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 116: Hunter's Historical Journal.]

[Footnote 117: Methodist Magazine, 1821.]

[Footnote 118:

"No. 20.       Hobart, 1st May, 1823.

SIXPENCE.       I promise to pay the bearer on demand the sum
of Sixpence, for value received.
                               A. B."]

[Footnote 119: Names of first directors and officers:--E. F. Bromley, A. Bethune, F. Champion,
G. C. Clarke, A. F. Kemp, A. Macleod, and D. Lord; R. Lewis, cashier.]

[Footnote 120: Curr's Account, p. 44.]

SECTION VIII.

The ecclesiastical notices contained in this work, will relate chiefly to external and material
interests. The eye of a stranger cannot be expected to survey with impartiality the peculiarities
of systems. It will be attempted to supply a few general facts acceptable to the community
at large.

During the first years of this colony the duty of providing religious instruction, was both
admitted and neglected by the state. The clergy were limited to the towns, who with the clerical
functions united the business of agriculture and the administration of punishments. The church
of England was then regarded by statesmen as the religion of the empire, and to clergymen of
the episcopal persuasion the spiritual interests of the settlements were confided.

The first clergyman of New South Wales was the Rev. Richard Johnson: his labors were prosecuted
under many discouragements. The priest of a Spanish vessel raised his hand with astonishment
when he found (1793) no sacred edifice had been provided, and that the clergyman sought some
shady spot to evade the burning sun in the performance of his ministry. He remarked, that the
first house his own countrymen would erect, would be a house for God.[121] The habits of the
officers discouraged a moral reformation. Earl St. Vincent had prohibited the marine officers
taking their wives. A lady, who followed her husband in the disguise of a sailor, was sent
home by Governor Phillip, when half her voyage had been completed.[122]

Four years having elapsed, in vain expectation of official help, Mr. Johnson erected, at his
own cost, a wooden building: strong posts were driven into the ground, the walls consisted
of wattle and plaster, and the roof was thatched: thus the first Christian temple in this hemisphere
was raised by a voluntary effort. This building was maliciously destroyed. After a long season
of slumber, the governor resolved to enforce the observance of the Sabbath, which had been
commonly spent in "abominable dissipation." The prisoners were compelled to attend on public
worship, and their officers enjoined to accompany them: a few weeks after, the church was in
flames. The governor, irritated, threatened to employ the workmen on Sunday to erect another
church; but a large stone store being available, it was fitted up for the purposes of devotion,
and the weekly penance exacted in another form more suitable to the day (1778). Mr. Johnson
returned to Great Britain: he was the first who reared orange groves, from which he realised
considerable wealth.[123]

Before Mr. Johnson's removal, the Rev. Samuel Marsden arrived: a man of great intellectual
and physical energy, who while he accomplished much for his family, effected more as a clergyman.
Mr. Marsden was a graduate of St. John's, when he received his appointment, which was pressed
upon him. His mission excited great interest. He was about to address a large assembly at Hull,
when the vessel fired a signal to weigh anchor: the service was suddenly stopped, and Mr. Marsden
proceeded with his bride to the boat, followed by the whole congregation, who covered the young
adventurers with benedictions.

Mr. Marsden resided at Parramatta, where his agricultural success was conspicuous. Perón exclaimed--"The
whole of this spot was covered with immense and useless forests. With what interest have I
trodden over these new meadows, through the midst of which this respectable pastor conducted
me himself with the most affectionate kindness. Who could have believed it! This residence
is seven or eight miles from Parramatta, in the midst of woods; and it was over a very excellent
road in a very elegant chaise that Mr. Marsden drove me. What exertions must have been taken
to open such communications: these pastures, these fields, these harvests, these orchards,
these flocks, are the work of eight years!" In his spiritual husbandry Mr. Marsden was not
at first equally successful.

He returned to England in 1808, and the colony was left for some time without any clerical
instructor. The Rev. Mr. Fulton, a protestant clergyman of Waterford, transported for sedition,
was stationed at Norfolk Island, and Father Harold, an exile, a catholic priest, had returned
home. "There was," says Holt, "no clergyman to visit the sick, baptise the infant, or church
the women. So we were reduced to the same state as the heathen natives who had none of these
ceremonies." At this period, however, many missionaries, driven from Tahiti, took refuge at
Port Jackson. Some were employed as preachers, and others as schoolmasters, and several rose
to considerable station and wealth, while others resumed their mission under more favorable
auspices.

Mr. Marsden succeeded in arousing the attention of the ministry: additional clergymen were
procured, and schools were established. The country-born children displayed an aptitude for
instruction which kindled the most pleasing hopes. They exhibited a feeling, approaching to
contempt, for the vices of the convicts, even when manifested in the persons of their parents.[124]
"These feelings," said Sidney Smith, "convey to the mother country the first proof that the
foundations of a mighty empire are laid."[125]

It is scarcely possible to imagine a condition more unfavorable to the rising race; and yet
the aptitude for instruction, and the self-respect observable in the Australian youth, have
been remarked by every visitor from the earliest times, not without astonishment. It is not
uncommon to see children of the most elegant form, and with an open countenance, attended by
parents of a different aspect, as if a new region restored the physical and mental vigour of
the race.

A pleasing instance of the love of knowledge occurred during the early ministry of the Rev.
Mr. Cartwright, which he related to Governor Macquarie. The river which separated them from
his dwelling was swollen, and knowing the ford was impassable, he saw with great amazement
his young pupils approach his Sunday school: they had tied their clothing on their heads, and
swam across the stream.[126] It is asserted, that without any other instruction than a casual
lesson, some learned both to read and write.

The Rev. Robert Knopwood, who arrived with the first settlers, was long the sole chaplain of
Van Diemen's Land. In addition to his clerical functions he regularly sat as a magistrate.
He had not much time to care for the spiritual interests of his flock, and of his success in
their reformation nothing is recorded: his convivial friends are the chief eulogists of his
character. His little white pony was not less celebrated. Mr. Knopwood received a pension,
and was subsequently appointed chaplain to a country district: he died in 1838. The gaiety
of his disposition made him a pleasant companion and a general favorite; and conciliated whatever
esteem may be due to a non-professional reputation.[127] Mr. Knopwood was not, however, unwilling
to tolerate the assistance of a sect whose zeal wore a different aspect from his own. The wesleyan
ministers found a kindly welcome and an open field.

In the absence of clergymen, it was customary for the magistrates to conduct public worship,
or where that was not possible, to assemble the prisoners and accompany the inspection with
a few words of advice.[128]

The attention of the London committee of the wesleyan mission was aroused by their agents stationed
at Port Jackson, who referred to this colony as "a settlement called the Derwent, two weeks'
sail distant." The Rev. B. Carvosso, on his passage to New South Wales, touched at Hobart Town,
in the month of May, 1820. He embraced the opportunity thus offered. He was introduced by the
Rev. Mr. Knopwood to the governor, who authorised and protected his teaching. Mr. Carvosso
stood on the steps of a dwelling-house; his congregation partly within and partly without:
his wife conducted the psalmody. The text which initiated the wesleyan ministry was characteristic
of its style and results: "Awake thou that sleepest!" The colony required such addresses. Mr.
Carvosso's description of the inhabitants may be imagined: they were kindly, but dissolute.
At New Norfolk and at Pittwater, with a population of several hundreds, no religious service
had been performed. A seriously-minded soldier, by diligent inquiry, found out a settler said
to be religious. To converse with this person, he took a journey of fifteen miles, and found
him swearing!

Shortly after Mr. Carvosso's departure, several soldiers of the 58th regiment, who at Sydney
adopted the sentiments of methodism, were quartered in the island. They prompted a Mr. Noakes
to obtain a room for worship: eight persons met on the 29th October, 1820, at a house in Collins-street,
Hobart Town. They next removed to the residence of a Mr. Wallis: the soldiers and their coadjutor
filled up the hour with singing, exhortation, and alternate prayer. Corporal Waddy appears
to have been the leader of the band. They were assailed with great, though transient fury:
their devotion was stifled by hostile noises. The governor, however, interfered, and the disturbers
were intimidated.

But the landlord of the house growing weary of their company, they sought a place of refuge.
Donne, a carpenter, whose skilling formed a workshop, was entreated to arrange it for worship.
At first, he gave a hesitating consent: his wife, a woman of vigorous temper and "a Romanist,"
violently interdicted the project; "but," says the chronicler, "that night there was a dreadful
storm; the house rocked: she awoke in terror, exclaiming, 'the methodists shall have the room!'"
The building became too small: it was enlarged to accommodate three hundred persons: a society
of fourteen members was constituted. On the 13th May, 1821, a Sunday school was established;
the first in Van Diemen's Land. All this was done in the absence of a minister. Waddy, who
was made a sergeant, went to India, where he soon died. He was mentioned with admiration by
his brethren. Donne had been a prisoner: he lived to acquire the respect and confidence of
his neighbours. His proper name was Cranmer: he was descended from the family of the illustrious
archbishop.[129] He remained in membership until his decease. Mr. Noakes, the organiser of
these wesleyan victories, became dissatisfied with their results: the Gazette, of 1823, announced
that he had withdrawn from their fellowship. To him, however, belongs the honor of gathering
the first school for gratuitous instruction.

In the year following, September 21st, 1821, the Rev. Mr. Horton arrived. His labors were fatiguing
and minute: he read the scriptures to "four persons in one place, and addressed twelve in another;
chiefly old people and young children." He describes the social state of the country: "The
wretchedness of Launceston is past description:" "of the deaths at New Norfolk, all except
two are attributed to accident or drunkenness."

Mr. David Lord gave Mr. Horton a plot of ground, and he resolved to build. He was indefatigable
in his collections; and by contributions, then thought liberal, obtained £400.; but chapels
are not built by cautious men. Having raised the walls his money was gone; and they remained
long uncovered: a reproach to his calculation, but not to his faith. The Rev. R. Mansfield,
two years after, obtained timber and labor from the government: gifts and loans were provided
by the society in England, and the building was completed.[130]

In 1822, a considerable religious immigration took place. Carvosso transmitted accounts of
the material and moral prospects of the colony, which determined several of that class to settle
in this island. They embarked in the Hope, and encountered great dangers in the British channel.
On their complaints the vessel was seized, under an act for the protection of passengers; and
the Heroine being chartered for the purpose, they were transmitted at the expense of the government.
The owners successfully appealed against the seizure, and accused the passengers of conspiracy;
who, however, themselves suffered considerable detention and loss.[131] Many still survive,
having largely contributed in their various spheres towards the social improvement of the country.

Mr. Knopwood was superseded, as principal chaplain, by the Rev. William Bedford. This gentleman
received his appointment by the recommendation of persons who had been impressed by his zealous
attendance on criminals awaiting execution in the metropolitan gaols.

The presbyterian church was founded the same year by the Rev. Archibald Macarthur. He was cordially
received as a representative both of his country and his religion: though not himself of the
national church, most Scottish names are appended to the first subscription for his stipend.

The co-operation of the various bodies was not prevented by their differences. Of the first
annual meeting of the wesleyan mission, Mr. Bedford was president, and the whole community
joined in the support of a bible society, the first religious institution of the colony.

The missionaries who fled from Tahiti a second time, formed at Sydney a bible society, under
the patronage of Macquarie, and transmitted a considerable supply to the care of Mr. Knopwood.
In return for the liberal gift, an auxiliary was formed, of which Messrs. Birch and Dry were
the lay officers. The meeting held in May, 1819, contributed £100 on the spot: £300 during
the year. This munificence was avowedly for the credit of the settlement. Not only did the
institution unite all sects, but it was the first instance of friendly co-operation between
the emigrant and emancipist classes.[132] Among the contributors were twelve who, giving 5s.
each, designated themselves the "members of the free and accepted masons of St. John's Lodge,
Hobart Town." An early general meeting of the society was an example of dispatch: the governor
took the chair, the report was read, the resolutions passed, and the meeting dispersed within
ten minutes. With such celerity were pious labors finished in those days.

The erection of the archdeaconry in favour of the Rev. W. Scott, in 1824, was the result of
his visit to the colonies, as secretary to Commissioner Bigge, whose reports were attributed
to his pen. His alleged hostility to the emancipists excited resentment, and detracted from
his usefulness. When delivering his charge at Hobart Town, the governor required the attendance
of all officially connected with the government, whatever their faith. New South Wales was
within the diocese of Calcutta, but the relation was nominal; yet the newspapers did not think
a visit from Bishop Wilson improbable.

The Rev. John Youl, formerly a missionary at Tahiti, was the chaplain of Port Dalrymple. His
labors were divided between George Town and Launceston, and until his arrival no clergyman
had ever visited the northern districts of the island.[133] In 1819, he made a tour, and baptised
sixty-seven children, and married forty-one couple; many of whom were recognised as such before
his interposition.[134] He was accustomed to call his congregation together by the sound of
an iron barrel, which was swung to a post, and struck by a mallet; or he announced his arrival
by walking through the settlement in his canonical dress.

Launceston was destitute of a clerical resident until 1824, when Mr. Youl returned with the
establishment from George Town. The people were sometimes weeks without a service, and three
years without a clergyman. Shortly after, during a visit of the governor, the church was crowded;
an event said to be unparalleled in the history of Launceston. The church was a wooden building
of small dimensions: sometimes occupied as a court, sometimes as a temporary sleeping place
for prisoners; sometimes as a stable.[135]

The disposition of Mr. Youl was amiable, and his professional reputation unblemished: placed
in a station of little promise, he cultivated the minds and affections of the young, and discountenanced
vices he could not extirpate.

The first Roman catholic priest established at Hobart Town, was the Rev. Peter Connolly. Less
polished than his protestant friend, Mr. Knopwood, he was not less genial in his temper: the
pastor of a people drawn chiefly from the Irish peasantry, he well understood their character.
He received a grant from the crown, and erected a humble chapel and dwelling-house; which he
ascribed partly to the charity, and partly the penance of his flock. He used a common brush
to sprinkle them with holy water, and spoke of their faults without much softness or reserve.
Occasionally an execution required his services at Launceston, otherwise a place long overlooked
by the priesthood.[136]

The return of the Sabbath was unattended in the country with a religious welcome. Many employed
their time in hunting: the more scrupulous in visits, and the profane in labor or intemperance.
A gentleman, now distinguished among the wesleyans, was found by his neighbour ploughing by
the road side on Sunday morning: both himself and his men had forgotten the day. Yet at the
houses of all, a minister of religion, of any name, met a cheerful entertainment and a willing
audience. Whether that the presence of an intelligent stranger is itself a grateful interruption
to rural solitude, or that the miseries resulting from sin were too apparent for dispute, the
utility of religion was never openly questioned; and it is certain, that few people were less
inclined to reject the instructions, or to affront the ministers of religion.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 121: Collins, vol. i. p. 498.]

[Footnote 122: Life of John Mason Good.]

[Footnote 123: Holt, vol. ii. p. 97.]

[Footnote 124: Bigge's Report, p. 104.]

[Footnote 125: Works, vol. ii. p. 44.]

[Footnote 126: Reid's Voyages, p. 312.]

[Footnote 127: He is thus described by a companion, in the Hermit in Van Diemen's Land: "The
good old gentleman at length warmed with the subject, and said in an under tone--'You must
come and see Bob at the cottage. Yeoix, yeoix: tantivy, tantivy;' to which friendly invitation
I immediately assented."]

[Footnote 128: The following is a discourse delivered by Captain Nairn, and by its constant
repetition was impressed upon the memory of the relator. Captain Nairn would stand and thus
address the prisoners on a Sunday morning:--"Now, my men, listen to me. I want you all to get
on. I was once a poor man like you; but I used to work perseveringly, and do things diligently
and as such got taken notice of, until I became a captain of the 46th. Now, I want you to work
perseveringly; do things diligently, and that will make you comfortable; and I will assist
you, that you may have houses for yourselves, and rise up to be equal to me." It may be questioned
if many sermons of greater pretensions, have not been less humane and effectual; and this was
often the sole substitute for public worship.]

[Footnote 129: These statements are taken from the official papers of the mission.]

[Footnote 130: The Rev. Mr. Mansfield continued until 1825. Under his care the institutions
peculiar to the wesleyans were fully established: their love feasts, in which they relate the
rise and progress of their religious experience; their watch nights, when they wait in silent
prayer for the first moment of the new year; their covenant, in which standing up together
they pledge themselves to the service of the Almighty.]

[Footnote 131: Godwin's Guide to Van Diemen's Land.]

[Footnote 132: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 133: Ibid.]

[Footnote 134: Gazette, February, 1819.]

[Footnote 135: Eye-witness.]

[Footnote 136: Mr. Fitzgerald, a respectable settler, speared by the natives (1831), was carried
to his grave by his neighbours; but was indebted to a prisoner, sought out for the purpose,
for the religious rites usual at funerals.]

SECTION IX.

On the 19th July, 1823, the British legislature enacted a law for the "better administration
of justice in New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, and for the better government thereof;"
to expire at the close of the session of parliament, 1827. The old courts with their military
functionaries were superseded,[137] and a supreme court erected; whose jurisdiction extended
to causes, criminal, civil, and ecclesiastical. The judges were entitled to the powers and
jurisdiction enjoyed by the courts of King's Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer of England;
and to enquire into and determine all treasons or other crimes committed within the Indian
or Pacific Oceans. The military jury of seven officers on full pay, were retained; but the
court proceeded according to the forms of civil tribunals. The trial of civil issues was confided
to the judge, and two justices of the peace chosen by the governor; the right being given to
either party to apply to the court for a jury of twelve freeholders. The king was authorised
to extend trial by jury at pleasure. Causes of more than £500, or a less sum with consent of
the judge, were subject to appeal to the governor of New South Wales; and appeals in certain
cases were allowed to the king in council. The rules of court were authorised by the king.
Courts of quarter session, and of request for sums under £10, were established. The governor,
with the advice of a council of five or seven, or the major part of them, was empowered to
enact ordinances not repugnant to the laws of England. The duties levied under former acts
were made perpetual, but the council were inhibited from imposing a tax, except for local purposes.
The governor, with one member assenting, could pass any law: or, for the suppression of a rebellion,
although all might dissent: and the king was empowered to enact an ordinance which the council
might reject.

It was provided also, that the king might erect Van Diemen's Land into a separate colony: confer
on the acting-governor, in the absence of the governor-in-chief, the various powers conveyed
by the act; and, in that case, terminate the dependence of the supreme court on the court of
New South Wales. On these extensive powers the checks provided were the requisite preliminary
certificate of the chief justice, that the ordinances proposed were consistent with the laws
of England, or the circumstances of the colony; the exposure of these acts on the table of
the House of Commons; the obligation of the governor to show cause for the act passed in defiance
of his council; the prohibition of direct taxation, except for local purposes: guarantees of
little value at the time of their adoption, but rendered of greater importance by the growth
of freedom in the empire at large.

The act of parliament did not pass without animadversion and discontent. Sir James Mackintosh
moved that a jury of twelve should be substituted for the clause constituting a military jury--the
most obnoxious portion of the bill. In this he was seconded by Mr. Wilberforce, but the proposition
was defeated by a majority of eleven. Mr. Canning recommended a compromise between the friends
and opponents of the bill, by limiting its duration to five years, and to this the minister
assented.

The capacity of the colonies to furnish jurors was long a subject of debate, Mr. Justice Bent
stated, that after full consideration he recommended a grand and a common jury, in conformity
to the English law, and the trial of convicts by the police;[138] but Commissioner Bigge pronounced
against the scheme, and was confirmed in his opinion by the leading colonists of the time.
The whole state of society opposed serious objections to its adoption, and it was scarcely
practicable in Van Diemen's Land.

The settlers were generally desirous that Van Diemen's Land should be erected into a separate
colony. To this, Sorell was opposed. He thought the measure premature: tending to augment the
expenses of government; to deprive the people of the advantages of an appeal to the elder colony,
and of participation in that more liberal system of government a larger community could demand.
A public meeting was, however, summoned, and a petition adopted by acclamation. The sole dissentient
present, Mr. Murray, was roughly treated by the petitioners.

The nearer inspection of a chief authority, and the more ample means possessed for good, were
its advantages; but it occasioned a more rigid separation in social life, multiplied offices
which might have been long confined to the elder colony, and removed too far the governor and
courts from effectual oversight and appeal. The colony was not sufficiently consolidated to
oppose a force of public opinion to the despotic tendencies of the new constitution.

This petition was forwarded to the king through Mr. Edward Barnard, the colonial agent, who
owed his appointment to the suggestion of Mr. Bigge, and the nomination of Lord Bathurst. His
office was not, however, political. He was authorised to purchase stores for the local government;
to give drafts on the colonial funds in exchange for cash; and otherwise to assist persons
designing to emigrate to this country. He received 8 per cent. commission, and a salary until
1839, when it was withdrawn. He bore no resemblance to those bold political agents, such as
Franklin, sent by the American colonists to watch their interests in Great Britain.

       *     *     *     *     *

In the early journals the name of Sorell occurs frequently, to illustrate the qualities which
adorn a ruler, and to point a satire on his successor. On his departure a banquet was given
him, where, said the reporter, "the cup was often replenished, and the flow of reason never
ebbed." It was observed, that the return freight for merino wool, which the colony owed to
his care and foresight, anchored beside the Guildford, that was to carry him home.

Towards the close of Sorell's government, the commerce of the colony was assisted by the enterprise
of some British merchants. A company was formed at Leith, with a capital of £100,000, professing
to promote the welfare of the colonies, by taking their produce in exchange for merchandise.
A succession of vessels were dispatched: the first was the Greenock; among the rest, the Triton,
Captain Crear. These vessels introduced many families from Scotland, whose moral worth and
successful enterprise have established their families among the chief of the land. The shipments
provoked the anger, and broke up the monopoly of the local merchants.

The administration of Sorell was successful in colonial estimation: his habits were familiar
without rudeness, and his fine countenance attracted the confidence of the stranger. He was
accustomed to linger about the gate of government house, chatting with the passers by, and
a slight excuse entitled the humblest ranks to prefer their solicitations. The admiration expressed
by the settlers for his character, was partly the result of their relative positions. He was
a dispenser of crown favors, and when compelled to refuse an immoderate suitor, he could refer
his request to the governor-in-chief. The rigour of king's commissioner was softened by his
official worth: nor is it necessary to search for a censure, amidst such concurrence of praise.
The settlers, to express their regard, agreed to offer Sorell a testimonial of £750 value.
They deprecated his recall by petition[139]--a rare instance of popular favor: there was but
one dissentient. A request so unusual might, perhaps, have been successful, had it not come
too late.

On his return to England, he received a pension, which commencing in 1825, continued until
his death--twenty-four years, and amounted to £11,500: more than the official salary he received
during his government twice told. This pension was authorised by the crown, and charged on
the colonial revenue. Sorell was colonel of the 48th regiment: he died on the 4th June, 1848,
in the seventy-fourth year of his age.

The aspect of the country at this time was not inviting to strangers; but the current of colonisation
was set in, and its ultimate superiority, compared with all others, became an article of Tasmanian
faith. On this subject the agricultural societies maintained a war of papers. Baron Field,
the chief justice of New South Wales, was the champion of that country, and dwelt on its vast
forests, its wool, its boundless pastures and rivers. The president of the Tasmanian agriculturists
urged all in the defence of Van Diemen's Land, which became his position. At that time, protective
laws had not furnished them with more formidable weapons.

The trials and disappointments of the colonist pioneer, will have been long since forgotten.
The modern emigrant to Australia can know them only in part. He is carried to his destination
by a public conveyance, at a cost determined by extensive competition. He can have the mechanical
labor he may need: he can buy the stock, descended from European flocks and herds, lower than
in their native regions. The choice fruit trees, flowers, and plants, which multitudes have
combined to collect, he can obtain often at a gift. The costly experiments of his predecessors
have established the rules which preserve his crops from destruction, or his folds from disease.
There is a market for his produce, and a bank for his money; and a school for his children.

A poet, of some celebrity, predicted the fortunes of Tasmania. The picture he drew, is no unpleasing
prospect for posterity:--

"Now, on my soul the rising vision warms,
 But mingled in a thousand lovely forms!
 Methinks I see Australian landscapes still,
 But softer beauty sits on every hill:
 I see bright meadows, decked in livelier green,
 The yellow corn-field, and the blossomed bean:
 A hundred flocks o'er smiling pastures roam,
 And hark! the music of the harvest home!
 Methinks I hear the hammer's busy sound,
 The cheerful hum of human voices round;
 The laughter and the song that lightens toil,
 Sung in the language of my native isle!
 The vision leads me on by many a stream;
 And spreading cities crowd upon my dream,
 Where turrets darkly frown, and lofty spires
 Point to the stars and sparkle in their fires!
 Here Sydney gazes, from the mountain side,
 Narcissus-like upon the glassy tide!
 O'er rising towns Notasian commerce reigns,
 And temples crowd Tasmania's lovely plains!
 The prospect varies in an endless range;
 Villas and lawns go by, in ceaseless change:
 And wafted on the gale from many a dell,
 Methinks I hear the village Sabbath bell!
 Faith upward mounts, upon devotion's wings,
 And, like the lark, at heaven's pure portal sings;
 From myriad tongues the song of praise is poured,
 And o'er them floats 'the spirit of the Lord!'"[140]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 137: Mr. Samuel Bate, after exercising the functions of judge at Port Phillip (1803),
returned home, and received the appointment, many years after, of inspector of excise, at Port
Jackson.]

[Footnote 138: Par. Pap. 1812.]

[Footnote 139: The following may be considered almost unparalleled in the history of modern
colonies, and in this has never been repeated. The government of Sorell was rather patriarchal
than despotic; and compared with the mass of newly arrived emigrants he was the old inhabitant.
Many who had never seen official men, but at an awful distance, were charmed with the affability
and kindness of the governor, and his recall seemed the withdrawal of a liberal patron:--

"AT A PUBLIC MEETING of the Landholders, Merchants, and Free Inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land,
by public advertisement assembled, at the Court House, in Hobart Town, the 30th day of October,
1823, JOHN BEAMONT, Esq., Provost Marshal of Van Diemen's Land, in the chair;

"Resolved--(Moved by Edward Abbott, Esq. junior, seconded by James Gordon, Esq.)--That in the
present state of this colony, that union of wisdom and experience, which his Honor Lieutenant
Governor Sorell has on every occasion so strikingly exhibited, is most essential to our general
and individual interests. It becomes therefore of the very utmost importance to us, that in
any contemplated changes, as to this colony, Lieutenant Governor Sorell may not be removed
from his present government; inasmuch as no successor, whom it may be the pleasure of his Majesty
to appoint, can be possibly expected to bestow all that general and individual attention to
our wants and wishes, and to be able, satisfactorily and advantageously, to encounter any difficulties
which may occur, without a considerable lapse of time, and much probable encreased inconvenience;
while from the steady, calm, decided, and experienced judgment of his Honor Lieutenant Governor
Sorell, we have every reason to hope for the most prosperous continuation of his present successful
administration.

"2nd. Resolved--(Moved by A. F. Kemp, Esq., seconded by F. Dawes, Esq.)--That a most dutiful
Address be presented to his Majesty, grounded upon the preceding resolution; and that a committee
of fifteen gentlemen be appointed to prepare the same, and to carry into effect the object
of the present meeting, in such manner as shall appear most proper and expedient.

"3rd. Resolved--(Moved by T. G. Gregson, Esq., seconded by W. A. Bethune, Esq.)--That the Address,
when signed, be forwarded with the least possible delay to Edward Barnard, Esq., our colonial
agent in London, requesting that gentleman to adopt the necessary measures for forthwith submitting
it to his Majesty's most gracious consideration, and to use his utmost endeavours to obtain
the object of the same.

"4th. Resolved--(Moved by R. L. Murray, Esq., seconded by J. Gordon, Esq.)--That a subscription
be forthwith entered into, to defray the expenses which may arise from carrying into effect
the present resolutions, and for the purpose of presenting to his Honor Lieutenant Governor
Sorell a Piece of Plate, in token of our affectionate remembrance of the great obligations
we owe him, and that such subscription be limited to the sum of two dollars, individually.

"5th. Resolved--(Moved by A. F. Kemp, Esq., seconded by J. Archer, Esq.)--That H. J. Emmett,
Esq. and P. A. Mulgrave, Esq. be requested to undertake the offices of treasurers of the subscription,
for the counties of Buckingham and Cornwall, respectively.

"6th. Resolved--(Moved by T. G. Gregson, Esq., seconded by T. Anstey, Esq.)--That a copy of
these Resolutions, and of the Address to his Majesty, be transmitted to his Honor Lieutenant
Governor Sorell, in such manner as by the Committee shall be considered most respectful to
the Lieutenant Governor, and suitable to the occasion.

"7th. Resolved--(Moved by R. Espie, Esq., seconded by J. Gordon, Esq.)--That the following
fifteen gentlemen do form the committee for the purposes before resolved:--

E. Abbott, Esq. jun. T. Anstey, Esq. J. Archer, Esq. W. A. Bethune, Esq. F. Dawes, Esq. H.
J. Emmett, Esq. J. Gordon, Esq. T. G. Gregson, Esq. S. Hood, Esq. A. W. H. Humphrey, Esq. A.
F. Kemp, Esq. R. L. Murray, Esq. H. Ross, Esq. G. F. Read, Esq. J. Scott, Esq.

"8th. Resolved--(Moved by J. Archer, Esq., seconded by T. Anstey, Esq.)--That these Resolutions,
and a copy of the Address to his Majesty, be inserted three times in the Hobart Town and Sydney
Gazettes; and in the Times, New Times, Morning Chronicle, and Courier, London newspapers.

"JOHN BEAMONT, Provost Marshal, Chairman.

"The Provost Marshal having quitted the chair, and James Gordon, Esq. having been requested
to take the same;

"Resolved--(Moved by E. Abbott, Esq., junior, seconded by R. L. Murray, Esq.)--That the thanks
of this meeting be given to John Beamont, Esq., our worthy Provost Marshal, for the readiness
with which he has convened the present meeting, and for his able, upright, and impartial conduct
in the chair.

"JAMES GORDON, Chairman."]

[Footnote 140: Australia; with other Poems. By T. K. Hervey, London, 1824.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

FROM 1824 TO 1836.

FROM 1824 TO 1836.

SECTION I.

George Arthur, Esq., fourth Lieutenant-governor of Van Diemen's Land, arrived in the Adrian,
on the 12th May, 1824. Formerly superintendent of Honduras, he was extensively known as an
officer of inflexible and energetic disposition: his administration had occasioned considerable
debate, and was the subject of parliamentary and judicial enquiries. Honduras, an establishment
on the American coast, was occupied by adventurers from Jamaica. At first interlopers, their
presence was for a time unnoticed by the Spanish crown. A hundred years were passed in unavailing
protests and opposition, when the court of Spain reluctantly recognised the location of the
cutters of logwood within its undoubted territory.

In 1814, Arthur was appointed superintendent by the Duke of Manchester; at the same time he
received from General Fuller the government of the troops in the following words: "I do hereby
constitute and appoint you, the said George Arthur, to command such of his Majesty's subjects
as are now armed, or may hereafter arm for the defence of the settlers at the Bay of Honduras;
you are, therefore, as commandant, to take upon you the care and charge accordingly." In virtue
of these appointments he claimed both the military and civil command, until he quitted the
settlement in 1822.

In 1820, Bradley, an officer stationed at Honduras, was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel
on full pay, and knowing that the regiment of which Arthur was colonel (the York Chasseurs)
was disbanded, he considered himself entitled to the military command, by the seniority of
rank, according to the rules of military service: he refused to acknowledge longer the authority
of Arthur, or to attend a council of officers to which he was summoned. Arthur instantly caused
Bradley to be arrested, and his sword taken from him; and he was detained a prisoner for seventy-three
days.

An account of this transaction was transmitted to Jamaica, when General Fuller, the superior
officer, ordered the colonel's liberation; but forwarded to the authorities in Great Britain
a statement of the dispute. The conduct of Colonel Bradley was deemed inconsistent with military
subordination: he was dismissed from the service without trial; he was, however, allowed to
dispose of his commission.

Colonel Bradley instituted an action against Arthur for false imprisonment: his counsel was
the present Lord Brougham: Arthur was defended by the law officers of the crown. There were
two questions to decide: whether the arrest was legal, and then whether unnecessary hardship
had been endured by the plaintiff. The jury, considering that Bradley's detention was unnecessarily
prolonged, gave him damages to the amount of £100. The appointment of Arthur to the government
of this country withdrew him from the effect of a legal process, and when Bradley appealed
against what he deemed the injustice of his evasion, he was told that he could await his recall.
Colonel Bradley next published a statement, that General Fuller had antedated Arthur's commission
as commandant, thus to justify the measures he had taken: a charge amounting to forgery. A
criminal information was filed against Bradley: he was found guilty, but was not brought up
for judgment.

It was decided by the judges that Bradley was mistaken, and that Arthur's title to command
was regular and valid. Bradley, however, continued to maintain that he was the victim of a
deep conspiracy, by which Arthur was rescued from the consequences of usurpation. It is certain
that Bradley was ruined.

The judges, in pronouncing a decision on Bradley's appeal against the verdict of justification
which Arthur obtained, in reference to the arrest, set aside the rules and regulations of the
service. Their judgment was built merely upon the absolute discretion of the crown in the distribution
of military command: they inferred that the approval of Arthur's proceedings and the dismissal
of Bradley, were sufficient evidence of the royal will.[141]

This was not the only charge exhibited against Arthur. In Honduras, slavery existed in its
foulest forms.[142]

Colonel Arthur obtained the countenance of an important class of politicians, by the compassion
he expressed for the negro race, and his exposure of the connivance of magistrates at the cruelty
of masters. He minutely described the sufferings of several women of color in his despatches
to the secretary of state; and especially denounced that atrocious bench, which admitted a
plea of ownership in justification of the crime of maiming. The details given by Arthur fully
justify his interference, and the enmity of a people by whom they were tolerated inflicted
no disgrace. Thus a mistress, whose careless severity injured the eye and severed the ear of
a negro woman, pleaded the rights of property, and the magistrate admitted the defence, although
the character of the sufferer was unimpeached. In flogging, the owners often stripped off the
lower clothing of the female slaves, threw them on the ground, and fastened their limbs to
stakes.[143]

Wilberforce and Stephen, the great advocates of slave liberation, who possessed influence with
the executive, considered Arthur a valuable coadjutor in their glorious cause, and were supposed
to pardon the arbitrary spirit of his government for the sake of his philanthropy. This evangelical
alliance was a standing subject of reference and criticism.

It may be proper to notice the moral state of this colony on Arthur's assumption of office.
The meeting which adopted a farewell address to Sorell, authorised a similar compliment to
Arthur on his accession. It was couched in the language of cold respect: parting reluctantly
with their late governor, the people were less disposed to welcome his successor. The reply
of Arthur was not less formal and cold: he took occasion to express his conviction that the
moral example of the free population was essential to the improvement of a class less favored;
and that while employing his authority for the general welfare, he was resolved to maintain
the rights of the crown. Such sentiments and purposes were just; but scarcely likely at that
moment to be heard with pleasure. The good sense of Sorell discountenanced the excesses of
vice, but the moral standard of England he had not attempted to raise. The domestic circumstances
of Arthur were more favorable to his authority as a censor; and happily for our ultimate welfare,
he resolved to discourage violations of social decorum. Many settlers, whose rank in life made
them unwilling to contract lawful marriages with prisoners or their offspring, were surrounded
by a numerous race. Their example affected those in stations beneath them. To arrest this domestic
evil, was doubtless the duty of Arthur; but it was not always performed with consideration.
Many were unable to marry; but were unwilling to abandon connexions sanctioned by the circumstances
of the colony and the habits around. They were placed under a ban: the favours of government
were denied them. Such as were in subordinate offices were dismissed; and however lasting the
utility of this rigour, its immediate consequence was irritation, resistance, and contempt.

The state of the prisoner population, though considerably ameliorated by Sorell, was far from
satisfactory. Left much at their own disposal from the hours of labor till their return, they
were masters of that portion of their time most suitable for dissipation and crime. The extent
of their depredations, and the deliberation with which they were performed, indicated an extensive
confederacy. The subordinate police, prone to connive with offenders, was ill-regulated and
insufficient. Goods were carried off in masses: bags of sugar and chests of tea were abstracted
from the stores; cart loads of property were swept off at once. The habits of the populace
were daring, profane, and intemperate; and to coerce such materials into order, required the
utmost vigour and discretion.[144]

The chief justice, John Lewes Pedder, Esq., brought from Great Britain the charter of the supreme
court, which was proclaimed in the market-place on the 7th May, 1824. On the 24th of the same
month, the court opened for business, and Joseph Tice Gellibrand presented his commission as
attorney-general. In his opening speech he declared his resolution to adopt the maxims of the
illustrious Hale. He eulogised the jurisprudence of his country, and especially trial by jury;
but the military uniform which appeared in court, if it did not lesson its utility, deprived
the institution of its grace.

The first person tried was named Tibbs, for killing a negro, who while watching for thieves
was himself taken for a robber. Though not a constable, he found pleasure in detecting the
crimes of others, and had in some instances succeeded. He fell a victim to this singular passion:
he was haunting the premises of a settler, by whose servant he was slain.

The first prosecution for libel was at the instance of Mr. R. L. Murray. This gentleman, formerly
a captain in the army, had been transported for bigamy. At an early age, while stationed in
Ireland, he became acquainted with a presbyterian lady, and was married to her according to
the rites of her faith. Considering himself trepanned, he came to the conclusion that the ceremony
was void, and subsequently espoused another. Twenty years after, he was prosecuted; but not
at the instance of the parties more immediately concerned. In an appeal to the British nation,
published at the time, he ascribed the charge to malice; and he made several unsuccessful efforts
to obtain the reversal of the sentence. In the opinion of eminent counsel, the ceremony was
invalid; and many years after, the judges decided that the marriage of a presbyterian and an
episcopalian in Ireland, could only be celebrated by a clergyman of the establishment. Sir
Samuel Romilly and Mr. Whitbread called the attention of the Commons to the extreme severity
of the sentence, and were resisted by the ministers with party warmth.[145]

Murray was educated at Westminster and Cambridge; and had spent twenty years in the service
when his commission, as captain in the Royal Waggon Train, was declared forfeited. After residing
some time in New South Wales, he settled in this island: his extensive experience and literary
talents procured his admission to the limited society. Having adopted the opinion that an independent
colonial government would not add to the freedom or prosperity of the colony, he opposed the
petition. The committee for its promotion set up a placard, which referred to the history of
the dissentient, and exposed themselves to a criminal prosecution.

The establishment of a court seemed to be the signal for an outbreak of disorder and violence.
Many prisoners escaped from confinement, and for a long period a succession of depredators
alarmed and pillaged the colony. The settlers promptly tendered their assistance to the government,
to garrison the towns or scour the bush. Their assistance was chiefly valuable for the moral
support it afforded, and its influence on the minds of the labourer in bondage. The exploits
of the bushrangers properly belong to the history of transportation, and are related in Vol.
ii. p. 194. The terrors they spread retarded the occupation of the country, and joined with
the assaults of the natives made the life of a Tasmanian farmer one of considerable danger.
At this time the remote estates were guarded by soldiers: loop-holes pierced the walls; fierce
dogs were stationed as sentinels; and the whole strength of a district was sometimes employed
in pursuit. Few settlers have escaped assault and loss. Many families, who in Great Britain
thought of an armed robber only with feelings of terror, by long familiarity with scenes of
danger, acquired a cool courage, which would not dishonor a soldier by profession. The unsparing
sacrifice of the robbers captured, gradually terminated the practice of bushranging, and the
colony enjoyed a long season of comparative repose.

The duties, levied first by the authority of the governor-in-chief, and afterwards sanctioned
by parliament, were collected by the Naval officer, who received 5 per cent. on the amount:
he also performed the duties of treasurer. Dr. Bromley, the surgeon of the first fleet, subsequently
made seven voyages to the colonies, when he obtained the appointment. The infrequent examination
of the accounts, exposed the treasury to undetected pilfering, and the colony to loss: in 1824,
a large defalcation was discovered, which, ascertained by a jury of merchants, amounted to
£8,269. They recommended the defaulter to the lenient consideration of the government, as the
victim of others. Dr. Bromley had been subject to the daily peculation of servants, and robbed
of cash and plate, to the value of £500, at once. His integrity was not impeached: the public
business, however, had been conducted without check. The per centage was abolished, and the
offices of treasurer and collector separated, and confided to Mr. Jocelyn Thomas and Mr. Hamilton.

The admission of goods liable to customs had been lax. The new settler landed his rum duty
free, when intended for his own use; but smuggling was carried on to a large extent, and the
protection of the revenue required a more severe supervision. The rigour was not always exercised
with courtesy; and the vallise of Mr. Edward Lord, formerly acting-governor, was detained by
the naval officer, with some expressions of indignity.

The merchants were deeply offended by the imposition of a duty at Hobart Town, higher than
was fixed by Brisbane at Port Jackson, as injurious to their trade; and that duties levied
prior to landing, were sometimes imposed on wines never actually delivered. They requested
that the charges might be equalised with the other port, and that the excess already taken
should be restored. In reply, Arthur not only refused to entertain the petition, but vindicated
with great ardour the conduct of Hamilton, as a traduced and excellent public officer. Such
was the answer to the merchants who complained of excessive and unequal imposts. Dissatisfied
with the reply, they required the sheriff to call a public meeting, to address the governor-in-chief,
the colony being still a dependency. This the sheriff, Mr. Dudley Fereday, declined, complaining
that his honor Colonel Arthur was not mentioned in the requisition, and the object of the meeting
not sufficiently defined. A meeting was therefore called to reprobate the ignorance and presumption
of the sheriff; but the dispute ended without any other practical consequences than a wide
impression that the government was despotic and contemptuous.

A more important variation between the colonies was displayed on the question of trial by jury.
The magistrates of New South Wales were required to shew cause for the non-issue of a precept
to the sheriff, to summon a jury. The rule nisi was made absolute. Chief Justice Forbes decided
that the magistrates derived their commission from the king, and not the parliament; that their
functions and obligations were settled by common law; were not mentioned, and therefore not
taken away by the act. The petty session thus traced its existence to the royal commission:
the supreme court to the parliamentary law.

When the report of the determination by Judge Forbes reached this colony, Mr., now Sir Alfred
Stephen, brought the question before the court in a similar manner. He argued that it was the
duty of the court to construe the act of parliament in a form the most favorable to the subject.
On the other side it was maintained, that the colony was too small to furnish civil juries,
and the parliament had superseded them. The act itself which instituted the military jury for
the supreme court, and gave civil juries in civil cases, left the extension of the practice
to the royal discretion alone.

Judge Pedder, in giving judgment, stated that according to the practice previously in the colonies
no civil juries had been known, and the act of parliament which conferred trial by jury did
not give a common one, but retained the military jury. On the whole he was of opinion that
parliament had overruled common law, and taken away trial by jury, except as provided by the
act, or extended by the king.

Thus, while Judge Pedder ruled that the petty juries were illegal, at New South Wales they
were sitting under the sanction of the then superior authority. That the decision of our supreme
court was a more correct interpretation of the intentions of parliament, is scarcely to be
doubted; but the words of the act did not necessarily extinguish a common law right, and the
intention of legislators is not law. The decision of Forbes was more agreeable to Englishmen,
though scarcely compatible with the condition of the country.

The treatment of Mr. Gellibrand, the attorney-general, who was dismissed from his office by
Arthur, for unprofessional conduct, excited great interest in the legal circles of Great Britain.
The disagreement sprang chiefly from a trial, Laurie v. Griffiths, characteristic of the times.
The plaintiff sued for damages for the illegal capture of a vessel of 12 tons, of which he
was the owner and master. The vessel, called the Fame, was found by the brig Glory in Twofold
Bay. Griffiths, the owner of the Glory, invited Laurie on board, and made him prisoner. He
then boarded the Fame, deprived her of charts and compass, and amidst the shouts of his seamen
fastened her to the tail of the Glory. In this condition she was carried triumphantly towards
Launceston; but a storm arising, the Glory encumbered by the Fame, cast her adrift, when she
was exposed to great danger. The prize-master ran her on shore, and the party wrecked, after
fourteen days journey through the woods, reached George Town. The justification pleaded was
that the plaintiff had conveyed prisoners from Port Jackson, and was liable to forfeiture;
that he had embarked in an unlawful voyage, and intended to visit Launceston to circulate forged
paper. No proof of these assertions was offered, and the jury granted £460 damages; a verdict
which the government found no occasion to disturb.

Mr. Gellibrand, upon the close of the action, was called to account for mal-practice. Mr. Dawes,
an attorney, presented a statement to the governor, which was forwarded to Judge Pedder, who
returned it as not within his province. Mr. Alfred Stephen, therefore, brought the complaint
formally before the court, and moved that Gellibrand should be struck off the rolls. The main
question was this: whether a barrister holding a general retainer could, without license, advise
the opposite party, or whether he could draw pleas for both. It was maintained by Mr. Stephen,
that the practice was dishonorable and dangerous: in the early stages of a cause facts might
become known to a barrister, which would make him a formidable antagonist to his former client.
He asserted that whether the practice were common in England or not, it was detestable; and
if allowed, would compel him to relinquish the profession, "or seek an honorable pittance elsewhere."

In the case of Laurie v. Griffiths, Mr. Gellibrand had drawn the pleas for the plaintiff, and
afterwards acted officially against him; he, however, transferred the fee he received to Mr.
Stephen, when he was compelled to relinquish the cause. The profession, almost unanimously,
asserted that the custom of the English bar warranted the practice of Gellibrand. The judge
stated that he was not concluded by the custom of the English bar, and that the court might
treat as a contempt a practice tolerated at Westminster: he considered the custom pernicious,
but dismissed the case, and left the governor to act for himself.

The appeal of Mr. Gellibrand to the profession perfectly vindicated his conduct. It was found
that the first counsel in England often acted against a retaining client, and sometimes drew
pleas on both sides. Thus, in a question of a right of way, the same counsel drew the declaration,
the plea, and the replication. However objectionable at first sight, where legal technicalities
are so fatal to even a right cause, it would be no small hardship were an opulent person permitted
to engross the legal talents of an island, and exclude his antagonist from the possibility
of obtaining justice. The excitement occasioned by this dispute was of long continuance, and
motives were freely imputed.

Although the chief justice dismissed the motion of Mr. Stephen, the governor determined to
press the charge, and appointed a commission of enquiry. Additional matter was urged: it was
said that Gellibrand advised a client to enter an action against a magistrate, whom his office
might oblige him to defend, and that his intimacy with Mr. Murray did not become his relations
with the government. Mr. Sergeant, now Judge, Talfourd regretted that by quitting the commissioners
appointed by the governor, he had damaged his case. The crown had a right to dismiss; but he
was clearly of opinion that the proceeding of the local officers was the effect of either "malice
or mistake." The charges of professional malversation he pronounced too absurd for notice;
that the practice was not only allowable but often imperative.

Mr. Stephen, on his passage to this colony was involved in a quarrel, which ended in an assault.
On his action he obtained £50 damages. His bill of costs, twice that amount, was published,
to contrast with the professional scruples which inspired his opposition to Gellibrand. This
bill consisted of one hundred and twelve items, among which the following: "to instructions
for replication," "for brief," "retaining fee." Many other such payments of self to self, passed
the taxing of the master. After paying actual expenses, Mr. Stephen, however, handed the surplus
to a chanty.

The master of the supreme court arrived in October, 1824. This gentleman was the brother of
the late William Hone, a party writer of great celebrity, whose opinions in early life were
extreme, both in reference to politics and religion. For publishing parodies, which employed
the language of the Common Prayer as a vehicle of political complaint, he was tried by Lord
Ellenborough. His fame was greatly increased by the pertinacity and skill of a successful defence.
He afterwards wrote the Day Book, a work of ability and research; and in the last years of
his life he embraced the faith, and died with the reputation of an ardent christian. Joseph
Hone, Esq. succeeded Mr. Gellibrand. The uniform gentleness of his character has been respected
by the press: he is mentioned only to be praised.

The arrival of General Darling was a time of festivity: he proclaimed the independence of the
colony on New South Wales, December 3, 1825. While present, he was entitled to govern; but
when he set sail, Arthur, who had been addressed as "Your Honor," assumed the authority of
governor-in-chief, and, responsible only to the home-office, became "His Excellency." The colonists
were less delighted with the possession than the prospect of a chief governor; although the
spirit of General Darling was not more favorable to the enlargement of their liberties.

The legislative and executive councils were appointed, consisting of officers of the government:
among them, it is said, a relative of Spencer Perceval, the statesman. He had been nominated
to an office in this colony, but he never arrived; his name is, however, second on our first
list of legislators.

The division of the island into police districts, subject to a stipendiary magistrate (1827),
brought the prisoner population under the more direct control of the government. It was a great
improvement in the internal discipline of the colony. Gentlemen, themselves masters, were liable
to the bias of a position full of vexation and disappointment, and less favorable to a cool
and impartial administration of justice. The executive revised their sentences, and thus reflected
on their judgment. Nor were they willing always to spare the time required by a patient investigation,
or to distinguish between a frivolous and a proper defence. Some curious examples of magisterial
equity are often told: one rose from the bench, when he heard his waggon in the street, and
delivered his sentence in his progress towards the door--"I can't stop: give him fifty." A
cattle stealer owed his life to the same impatience of enquiry: before the charge was half
investigated, the magistrate said, "give him fifty"--an easy compromise with the hangman. A
reverend gentleman met a party of men brought up for disobedience: he sent them back, with
"ah, well, give them five-and-twenty all round." It was common to send a note with the man
whom it was intended to punish: he was flogged, and sent back. A man, suspecting the contents
of such a missive, gave it to his fellow-servant, who was flogged in spite of his protests.
Another, who had been on a similar errand before, returned next day to his master, complaining
bitterly of his suffering; but he had destroyed the note and eluded the triangles. Such eccentricities
of justice could not last beyond the rudest era.

The site of the capital narrowly escaped a second change. The commissioner, Mr. Bigge, considered
that the seat of government should be fixed nearer to the source of the river Derwent. Brighton
was nominated the destined city, close to an extensive and fertile country, and within easy
access to the interior. Arthur was instructed to determine this question. Its chief inducement
was the removal of the prisoners from the temptation of the port; but property was already
invested to a large amount. The merchants strongly opposed the transfer. The division of the
government from the chief population would have destroyed its moral influence. Arthur did not
press the project, and during a conference with the merchants and other principal inhabitants,
discussed the question with courtesy. On the whole, the measure was impolitic, and finally
abandoned.

The uncertainty for some time obstructed the progress of the place. Launceston was still more
unfortunate. When York Town was abandoned as the chief settlement, Paterson removed his head-quarters
to Launceston; but on the visit of Macquarie he determined to constitute George Town the northern
capital. The superior convenience of a spot at the head of the river to one forty miles distant,
gave Launceston the mercantile preference. Macquarie maintained his project to the last; but
the opinion of Mr. Bigge determined the dispute in favor of Launceston, and the head-quarters,
in 1824, were removed finally from George Town.

A fatality has seemed to attend the selection of chief townships in the colonies. Sydney is
a second choice, Hobart Town a second, Launceston a third, Melbourne a second. New Zealand
has experienced the same vexation and losses which proper surveys might easily avoid. The general
government can have no sinister interest in these changes, but those who foresee and promote
them may largely gain.

The principal objection to Launceston was the navigation of the river, which was dreaded by
vessels of tonnage; but its reputation was worse than its dangers. Lighters, and even rafts,
were employed to discharge ships which would now approach the wharves. The Aguilar, Captain
Watson, spent several months at George Town, and charged the detention on the river. This was
resented by Arthur, who stated that the master had dispatched the mate and seamen on a sealing
voyage, and loitered for the purpose of traffic; and sought to excuse the delay by defaming
the port.[146]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 141: Barnwell and Cresswell's Reports.]

[Footnote 142: An obscure publication appeared at Jamaica in 1824, designated a Defence of
the Settlers of Honduras: a work intended to refute the imputations on which his anti-slavery
policy had been justified. Whether the book itself really existed, or the passages professedly
extracted from it deserve any credit, is questionable: the authority being an opposition paper.]

[Footnote 143: Colonel Arthur's letter to Lord Bathurst, 1820.]

[Footnote 144: The disorders of this period will be found described in vol. ii, of this History.]

[Footnote 145: Appeal to the British Nation. By R. L. Murray, Esq.: London, 2nd edit.]

SECTION II.

The newspapers of this hemisphere were long mere vehicles of government intelligence, or expressions
of the views and feelings of the ruling powers. A censorship established from the first issue,
was rigorously exercised, and the founder of the Australian press spoke of its vexations to
the end of his life, with horror and tears.

This was George Howe, a Creole of St. Christopher. He arrived in New South Wales in 1800: with
the sanction of Governor King, he obtained material from Great Britain, and sent forth the
first-born of the Australian press, named the Sydney Gazette, and New South Wales Advertiser,
on the 5th March, 1803. The conduct of a periodical was a work of toil and anxiety: the default
of material, the paucity of local intelligence, the vices of the prisoner workmen, and the
jealousy of the authorities, severely tried the industry and patience of the intrepid printer.
He continued his toil until his death, having kindled the unextinguishable torch of a free
press, and taken his rank with the benefactors of mankind.

Sir Thomas Brisbane at first relaxed, and then removed restrictions from the press. In 1823,
he permitted the discussion of colonial affairs, and in the month of October, 1824, the colonial
secretary informed Mr. Howe that he ceased to be amenable, except to the courts of law.

Malice or humour, in the early days, expressed itself in what were called pipes--a ditty, either
taught by repetition or circulated on scraps of paper: the offences of official men were thus
hitched into rhyme. These pipes were a substitute for the newspaper, and the fear of satire
checked the haughtiness of power.

The Hobart Town Gazette,[147] established by Andrew Bent, the first permanent newspaper, was
under the immediate patronage and control of the government, and Mr. Emmett was the first official
editor. The articles were brief, mild, and complimentary: they represented the views of the
ruler; perhaps, at that time, also of the people.

On the arrival of Colonel Arthur, Mr. Bent determined to throw off official supervision, and
claimed a property in the title of the Gazette. The partnership between him and the government
was not very distinct. Money had been lent for the purchase of material, but this he was expected
to repay. His right to the property, questioned by Arthur, was allowed on reference to the
governor-in-chief. The editor of Mr. Bent's choice was Evan Henry Thomas, Esq. In June, 1824,
appeared the first article of the press thus set free; and, as the first, is worthy lasting
remembrance. "We esteem ourselves," observed the writer, "a BEACON, placed by divine graciousness
on the awfully perilous coast of human frailty." "We view ourselves as a SENTINEL, bound by
allegiance to our country, our sovereign, and our God. We contemplate ourselves as the WINNOWERS
for the public." He then proceeds--"We desire to encourage the cloudless flames of rectified
communion," rejecting "each effusion, however splendid, of degenerate curiosity and perverted
genius--of misanthrophic ascerbity and calumnious retrospection." Such were the vows and resolutions
of the father of journalists. He added, "the duties of our typo-graphic province are performed
by the proprietor and one assistant." Having offered his columns for discussion, a writer of
considerable colonial fame, R. L. Murray, appeared under the signature of "A COLONIST." His
letters addressed to Arthur, reviewed his government contrasted with that of his predecessor:
they were said to approach the style of Junius; read in modern times, they may have lost much
of their spirit. They were, however, offensive to Arthur, and he resolved to start another
Gazette, which should put down opposition.

As the quarrel warmed, Bent grew more daring, and the first ex-officio prosecution was instituted
against him. Rather by implication than directly, the lieutenant-governor was charged with
attempting to deprive Bent of his property; the fraud being defeated only by the superior justice
of Governor Brisbane. In another paragraph the writer stated the extra martial incarceration
of Colonel Bradley, taught the colonists what might be expected from Arthur's anger. In one
of these libels, Bent declared that he would not surrender his rights to a "Gibeonite of tyranny."
The attorney-general ingeniously explained, that though Gibeon was a good man, that did not
qualify the inuendo. Fox was a friend of freedom, but such was not the Foxite of tyranny. In
truth, the whole discussion is painful to a friend of liberty and justice. It is difficult
to imagine a less dangerous opposition than such compositions, or to account for their prosecution,
except as an outbreak of offended pride.

In 1825, George Terry Howe had established the Tasmanian at Launceston; but the offers of the
government drew him to head-quarters, and, in concert with Dr. Ross, he became the printer
of the Government Gazette. In this official publication there were articles of news and politics;
but in 1827, the Courier being established, the Gazette issued as a separate publication. Mr.
Bent complained bitterly of the piracy of his title: he, however, soon yielded, and changed
the designation of his paper to the Colonial Times, August, 1825. The Tasmanian, of Hobart
Town, soon followed, and discussed the various political questions with moderation and ability.

Arthur resolved to put down the liberty of the press. It had, indeed, been asserted that this
measure was dictated by Lord Bathurst; but the manner in which it was defended by Arthur, identifies
his memory with the scheme. An act was passed, at the close of 1827, which laid the colonial
press at his feet. This ordinance appointed a license, subject to the will of the governor,
and made the continuance of a paper dependent on his pleasure: authorised a tax of threepence
each, and took securities for penalties. Bent was refused a license, and even his right to
publish an advertising sheet was disputed. He therefore published monthly, from the 1st March,
1828, the Colonial Advocate; a work of considerable merit, and containing much valuable information.
It was, however, 5s. a number, and not adapted to colonial circulation. The Austral-asiatic
Review, by Murray, also made its appearance in February, 1828; and although the publishers
of these productions were injured by the law, the governor was not the gainer.

It was not to be expected that the colony would quietly submit. An address, signed by Meredith
and several other magistrates, animadverted on the measure with just severity. They declared
that the restrictions imposed were needless, unconstitutional, and debasing: that they were
an insult to the colony; contrary to the implied engagements of the crown, when emigration
was invited. The reply of Arthur asserted, that so long as this was a place for the reception
of convicts, the press could not be free: that it was dangerous to authority, and calculated
to destroy the security of domestic life. Some opinions expressed by the remonstrants, he pronounced
presumptuous and unjust. In the controversy, the people were successful, as they were nearly
unanimous. The law was disallowed by Sir G. Murray, and the press set free. However offensive
the remarks of these writers, to describe their suppression as a measure of police, was both
disingenuous and absurd.

Alarmed by the threats of prosecution, the author of the "Gibeonite libel" presented an apology
in the following supplicating terms:--"We avow our readiness to preserve inviolate the best
and most endeared interests of this community; and we trust that, before misanthropy again
can rally his vituperative legions to assault us, we may re-evince to all how staunch is our
allegiance, and how sullyless our zeal at the post of probity!" The unfortunate printer could
not soften his prosecutor, and was cast in damages and expenses amounting to £500.

In 1829, Launceston was favored with two newspapers: the Advertiser, and the Cornwall Press.
Both started together, and both manifesting the spirit of rivals. The Advertiser was the property
of Mr. John Fawkner. Its opponent belonged to Mr. S. Dowsett, and reached the nineteenth number.
The following are memorials of their fraternal sympathies. The Cornwall Press describes his
rival as "an addle-pated upstart--a superannuated Zany." His writings "as the frothings of
a beer cask." "Condescending to notice 5 feet 2-1/4," he remarks, "we dropped from our proper
elevation." What that might be, it is not difficult to conjecture, if the rejoinder is to be
credited:--"if he had his right place, he would be wearing a leather apron and scouring pewter
pots." Such were the literary love tokens of those days. It will be seen, that the quarrel
of Arthur with the press, was continued to the end of his administration.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 146: Gazette, November, 1824.]

[Footnote 147: "We are indebted to the Italians for the idea of newspaper.

Captain Dixon, commander of the Skelton, came to Van Diemen's Land in 1820. On his return to
England, he published a small volume on the capabilities of the country. He suggested the formation
of a pastoral company, with a capital divided into £100 shares, as a profitable scheme. Causes
foreign to this enquiry reduced the marketable value of money, and awakened a speculative spirit
in Great Britain: projects of every kind found favour--a madness fraught with insolvency, fraud,
and ruin. But in the meantime the Van Diemen's Land Company had been formed. Men of opulence
and prudence, when compared with common projectors, were concerned in its origin. They proceeded
with caution, and postponed the issue of their share list until their plans were laid. Nor
did they promise a dividend, but as the result of a considerable outlay, and at a distant date.
Yet they drew a brilliant picture of this colony, and delineated in vivid language the riches
of its soil, its relative position, and its future destinies. "Such advantages," said they,
"could not long escape the penetration of the British public." It was, among their objects,
to relieve Great Britain from dependence on foreign wool; to improve the quality of the Australian
flocks: this object they have contributed to accomplish.

They applied to Lord Bathurst for 500,000 acres of land. By his countenance they obtained an
act of parliament, under which the charter of their incorporation, on the 9th November, 1825,
passed the great seal. By this charter they were authorised to employ their capital in cultivation
and sheep farming; to lend money on mortgage and to persons engaged in fisheries; to undertake
public works on security of tolls: but they were debarred from banking and commerce.

Lord Bathurst consulted Colonel Sorell: he was favorable to the company; but forwarned them
that no large blocks of fertile land remained unlocated. The company received a grant of 250,000
acres, to be taken on the north-west coast in one square block; bounded by Bass's Strait on
the north; on the westward by the ocean; and by a line drawn from shore to shore. After some
debate, this land was valued to the company at two shillings and sixpence per acre, and the
whole quit-rent charged, was "four hundred and sixty-eight pounds, sixteen shillings:" redeemable
at twenty years purchase--£9,575. In the measurement, one-fourth allowed for useless land.
The employment of convicts entitled the company to remission of quit-rent; £16 annually each man.

Mr. Edward Curr, at first the secretary of the company, became their agent. Having some time
resided in Van Diemen's Land, he had returned to England, where he published a book on the
state of the country, remarkable for its clear narrative and sober delineation. The first ship
dispatched by the company was the Tramnere (1826), followed by the Caroline. Some time was
lost in selecting the settlement, and Circular Head was chosen. On a closer inspection, the
district was not found encouraging. Near the shore the country is heavily timbered, and the
high lands towards the westward were found barren and cold. Mr. Curr was anxious to bring his
line as far possible towards the sun; but the governor held him to the literal agreement, under
an impression that the grant was already improvident and excessive. The whole scheme was distasteful
to Arthur: a powerful company having interests of its own, whose head-quarters were in London,
might have been a counterpoise to his influence, had it not been pushed to the extremity of
an inaccessible country. By the oversight or complaisance of Lord Bathurst, the rule which
made the outlay of capital the condition of a grant, was not inserted in the covenant. The
public works promised by the proprietors were never undertaken, and their establishment was
but a larger farm than common. They ultimately obtained several blocks of land, which gave
them command of an intervening country of 150,000 acres, at Woolnorth; 20,000 at Circular Head,
10,000 at the Hampshire Hills, 10,000 at the Middlesex Plains, 150,000 at the Surrey Hills,
and 10,000 at the islands on the coast. The total actual cost, including survey, was 1s. 6d.
per acre.

The operations of the company were conducted on a liberal scale: artizans were sent out. The
proprietors were promised a remission of £16 for men, and £20 for women, on the quit-rent.
This was the first encouragement of free emigration to this quarter of the world. A road was
opened with Launceston, chiefly useful to absconders. The importation of sheep and horses of
great value, was beneficial to the country. The sheep of the company cost £30,000 (1830), when
they exported wool to the value of £2,000. The servants of the company left them on the expiration
of their engagements: many before. The reports of the proprietors eulogised the management
of Mr. Curr, and affirmed that the moral influence he had acquired rendered his government
easy and his people contented. They asserted that ardent spirits were excluded: there were
no police or prison, and none required. These statements varied from fact. The company provided
no religious teaching for its people; and Mr. Curr, a Roman catholic, could not be expected
to promote heretical creeds.

The losses sustained by the company were great: the cold destroyed the stock, and their crops
often perished from moisture. On the Hampshire Hills many hundred lambs died in a night. Sometimes
the season never afforded a chance to use the sickle: in the morning the crop was laden with
hoar frost, at noon it was drenched with the thaw, and in the evening covered with dews; and
thus rotted on the ground. The agent, however, did not despair, and the company anticipated
a dividend in 1834, at the latest!

The company provided a numerous staff; beside the agent, were a commissioner, an agriculturist,
an architect, and surveyors. Its local affairs were confided to a council of three, Curr being
the chairman; but the divided sovereignty was impracticable, and the "Potentate of the North,"
as he was sometimes called, soon reigned alone.

Servants engaged in Great Britain at low wages, on their arrival often escaped from the farms,
and exposed the agent to great vexation. Sometimes they were pursued, and brought back by force:
it was at last agreed to cancel their indentures, on repayment of the cost of their passage.
In 1834, the population on the estate amounted to about 400 persons, of whom more than 200
were prisoners of the crown.

The New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land Establishment, formed at the same time, received
a grant of 40,000 acres. They engaged to improve the stock of Van Diemen's Land, and introduced
valuable horses. Colonel Latour was a leading partner; Captain Thomas, speared by the blacks
in 1831, was superintendent of the company's affairs, which however were unprofitable for many
years.

To these establishments the colony is indebted chiefly for the introduction of valuable stock.
In this they were rivalled by private settlers. Bulls, of the Fifeshire breed, were imported
by Mr. Patrick Wood; of Normandy, by Captain Watson. Saxon sheep were imported by Messrs. Gilles;
from the flock of the Marquis of Londonderry, by Mr. R. Harrison; by Mr. Anstey, from the flock
of Sir Thomas Seabright; by Mr. R. Willis, from that of Mr. Henty, of Arundel. Many others
might be mentioned, but these were in advance of the public companies; and by 1830, little
could be added to the varieties of the fold or the stall.

Among those employed in the Van Diemen's Land Company's service was Jorgen Jorgenson, whose
adventurous life made him remarkable even among vagabonds. He was born at Copenhagen, 1780.
After some employment in the coal trade, he accompanied the expedition of Flinders; and afterwards,
as mate on board the Lady Nelson, attended the first party to Risdon. Having returned to Europe,
and become commander of a privateer in the service of his country, he was captured after a
smart resistance by the British ships Sappho and Clio.

He obtained, while out on his parole, the merchant ship Margaret and Anne, to carry provisions
to Iceland, where the people were suffering extreme privation. On a second voyage the governor,
Count Tramp, prohibited the intercourse: Jorgenson landed while the people were at church,
and aided by his seamen took the governor prisoner. He then, with extraordinary impudence,
issued a proclamation stating that he had been called by an oppressed people to assume the
reins of government. He proceeded to reform its various departments: he lightened the taxes,
augmented the pay of the clergy, improved the system of education, established trial by jury,
formed an army consisting of eight soldiers, and fortified the harbour with six guns. Having
performed these exploits, he returned to London in a prize taken from the island. His proceedings
were already known to the ministry, and he was arrested as an alien at large. Jorgenson made
no small stir by his appearance among legislators and conquerors. After a variety of adventures,
in which he was often on the borders of crime, he pawned the linen taken from his lodging,
and was sentenced to transportation. In Newgate he was employed as a dispenser of medicine.
After four years detention he was released; but was retaken, having neglected to quit Great
Britain, and transported for life. Such is the account he gave of his imprisonment. The penalty
might have been commuted; but he undertook to write on various subjects, and created some trouble;
he was therefore forwarded to this colony. Here he was chiefly employed as a constable; detected
many crimes, and brought several to the scaffold. A woman, who had assisted him in discovering
certain offenders, became his wife; and he was often seen fleeing from her fury through the
streets. He, however, survived her, and at length closed his singular career in the colonial
hospital.

Jorgenson made great pretensions to literature. He wrote a treatise on religion, and another
on the treaty of Tilsit: in this country he published a pamphlet on the funded system, and
a narrative of his life by himself. With a knowledge of the writer, it is amusing to read the
grave strictures of the London critics, who complained that he bounded with amazing rapidity
from one subject to another, without leaving a trace of his track: now among the stars--then
on a steam engine chasing infidelity--or pelting atheism with meteoric stones.[148]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 148: Of the fitness of Jorgenson to discuss theological questions, the reader may
judge from the following passage taken from his preface:--"No religion on earth, except the
Christian, establishes the link of the chain which must necessarily exist between the creator
and intelligent creature. After consulting history, chronology, the laws of mechanism and the
laws of nature, as unfolded by observation and experience, he discovered that events must have
happened nearly at the time mentioned, and precisely after the manner described. At length
his mind was satisfied, that God had made our yoke easy and our burden light."--Religion of
Christ the Religion of Nature. Written in the condemned cells of Newgate, by Jorgen Jorgenson,
late governor of Iceland. Capes, London, 1827.]

SECTION IV.

The retirement of Lord Bathurst, and accession of Lord Goderich, gave some hope of a change
in the form, if not the agents of government. The colonist expected much from the improved
tone of the English executive; but, except the rescue of the press, the sole effect was a reduction
of British expenditure for the civil government, and in 1827 its total cessation.

Mr. Hood, a surgeon on half-pay, had offended Arthur by a letter: a Gazette announcement informed
him that he was placed under a ban;[149] and his name recorded, to prevent his participating
in the "favors or indulgencies of the local government"--a help to official remembrance, which
rulers seldom require. Thus official and opposition parties were organised: as the distinction
became more marked, a social gloom overspread the capital. Whispers were heard with jealousy.
The mercantile class, who alone could defy the government, and who were excluded from the "court
circles," headed the opposition. "The official corps," said a satirical lady, who drew a picture
of the times, "are punctilious; fearful of compromising their rank; all etiquette." The entertainments
at government-house were ceremonies, rather than parties of pleasure. As the servant opened
the door, he seemed to say, "you may come in, but don't speak." Some more daring spirit would
venture a remark, as ballast is thrown out to send a balloon above the fogs; but caution, like
Sancho's physician, interdicted the perilous indulgence, and restored the watchful silence.
No Dutchman would willingly endure the Humdrumstadt on the Derwent, notwithstanding its natural
advantages and commercial promise--a town without a library, and where the common spirit of
detraction was exasperated by competition for those favors the governor could refuse or transfer.
The presence of power was everywhere felt, and dreaded wherever it could not be defied.[150]

The close connection and constant intercourse between New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land
affected the spirit of both governments. Sir Thomas Brisbane, whose easy temper and courteous
manner rendered him highly popular, was superseded by Lieutenant-General Sir Ralph Darling,
whose administration after the first few months was a perpetual storm. The chief justice, inclined
to liberal politics, rejected several drafts of laws which trespassed on the limits of the
constitutional act, which he himself had framed at the request of Lord Bathurst. At his dictation,
the ordinance against the press was less stringent than intended. The titles of land, the property
of masters in assigned labor, he determined against the government. He was considered the tribune
of the people. Judge Forbes, a Bermudian by birth, was educated in an American college, and
charged with republican tendencies by those who designed to degrade him.[151]

Brisbane was the patron of the turf club. This office was accepted by Darling as his successor.
He was invited to dine with the members: this he declined. Mr. Wentworth, as chairman of the
day, made certain observations thought personally disrespectful; and when the governor's health
was proposed, the band struck up, without orders from the stewards, "There is na luck about
the house." Darling, informed of these proceedings, withdrew his name as patron. The club passed
resolutions declaring their approval of Mr. Wentworth's speech. The governor dismissed the
acting attorney general (Moore), the sheriff (Mackarness), and other officials, for their concurrence
with the majority.

Two soldiers, Thompson and Sudds, to escape from the service, committed a theft, and received
a sentence in the supreme court. To aggravate its rigour, Darling brought them on parade: stripped
them of their uniform, fixed round their necks collars set with spikes, and loaded their legs
with chains. In a few days Sudds languished and died: this result, so unexpected, was attributed
in part to a latent disease of the liver, rendered fatal by grief and the pressure of the iron.
The affair became the subject of parliamentary inquiry. Darling was accused of murder by his
enemies: he was vindicated by ministers; but although his motives were uncorrupt, an arbitrary
aggravation of a judicial sentence who would seriously approve?

These transactions, together with the "Stamp Act" to check the circulation of newspapers, were
noticed in the Australian (May, 1827) in terms of ironical praise; severe, but not beyond the
ordinary license of public discussion. On the arrival of Mr. Baxter, the attorney general,
the proprietor, Dr. Wardell, was prosecuted in the supreme court, at the instance of General
Darling. Judge Forbes pointed out the violent straining of the inuendos, and through his charge
led on to an acquittal. Although chosen by the prosecutor, the jury were unable to agree, and
the defendant was discharged. The alleged libel stated that the stamp act "would immortalise"
General Darling "in the annals of this rapidly improving colony, and act as a passport to the
admiration and grateful respect of posterity." The meaning extracted by the inuendos was this:
"It would render his memory for ever infamous, and cause his name to be hated and detested
by future generations." The judge justly remarked, that between immortality and infamy there
are many steps.

The struggles between the governor-in-chief and the opposition were watched in Van Diemen's
Land with interest. The same parties existed in both colonies; but Judge Pedder did not participate
the political sympathies of Judge Forbes, and made no pretence to popular applause. To those
who check the abuses of irresponsible power something is due; but when the balance of human
infirmity is struck, it will not be always found in their favor.[152]

The employment of spies has been charged on Arthur as a chief vice of his government--a practice
hardly less perilous to the innocent than guilty. Shortly before his retirement from office,
Mr. Humphrey, the police magistrate, was denounced for corruption. Major Honner, who had formed
a disgraceful connexion with Anne Pope, a prisoner of the crown, applied for her assignment
to his service: this Mr. Humphrey refused. The major then offered to produce evidence against
this officer, on condition that free pardons were granted to his witnesses, one of whom was
found to be his paramour. The governor declined to pledge a reward; but Honner was assured
by a member of the executive that, provided the results were satisfactory, his recommendation
would be favorably considered. He forwarded a letter to the governor, who satisfied that the
imputation was malicious and incapable of proof, directed the prosecution of the accuser. The
transaction was unfortunate: the negociation indicated that secret informers were tolerated,
and that pardons might be procured by a successful witness.

Mr. Humphrey, originally a mineralogist, who filled various offices from the foundation of
the colony, received a pension of £400; but soon after died (1829). The governor eulogised
in strong language his official career.

The recall of Arthur was announced, and the policy of his successor gravely debated before
his career was midway. "It is a fact," said the Sydney Gazette, "Colonel Davies is the distinguished
individual." "The successor of Colonel Arthur," said the Australian (1829), "is placed beyond
doubt. The appointment of Colonel Gibbs is now certain." Clergymen of such names emigrated
about the time, and rumour could easily supply the rest.

When the constitutional act approached its term, the colonists determined to seek not only
for trial by jury, but a voice in the legislature. A petition adopted by a meeting held in
1827, was confided to a deputation, who were instructed to forward it through Arthur, and to
entreat his concurrence with its prayer. A time was fixed to receive them; but when at the
government-house, they were met by a blundering message, postponing the interview for one hour.
Deeming themselves and their constituents slighted, they declined a second attendance. Arthur
published a vindication of himself: he stated that business of great importance with Mr. Curr,
prevented his examination of the documents; he had requested the delay only to prepare himself
for the audience, and regretted that the colony were deprived of his friendly offices by an
unreasonable caprice. This paper fell into the hands of the deputation a few hours after the
vessel had sailed with despatches for the secretary of state. They considered this a manoeuvre,
contrived to stifle their defence; and instantly dispatched a fast sailing boat to pursue the
ship with an exculpatory letter.

By a circular of Lord Bathurst,[153] still in force, it was announced to the colonists that
their complaints must pass through the governor's hands to the home-office. Duplicates without
new matter might be forwarded by other channels; but an answer could only be expected on the
arrival of the governor's report.

The violation of this rule the deputation imputed to the necessity of the case; to counteract
an attempt of the governor to evade its spirit. Their promptitude was unavailing: for his share
in the transaction, the name of Mr. Gellibrand was expunged from the list of magistrates, by
Lord Goderich's orders.

The hostility of Arthur to the petition was well understood, and there were many others who
did not sympathise with its object. Sir John Owen presented it to the Commons without a word.
The ministers expressed their desire to grant free institutions, so soon as the colony was
ripe to enjoy them, when Mr. A. Baring (Lord Ashburton) remarked that colonies are never ripe
for free institutions until they get them.

Mr. Marshall, the shipping agent, attempted to form an association in London (1828), for the
protection of these colonies. All persons, commercially or otherwise interested, were eligible
for membership. A correspondence was projected with the leading colonists, and it was assumed
the British government would readily attend to representations emanating from such a source.
The scheme did not obtain the support it merited, and the scattered colonial interests could
never be combined for a joint action. The partizans of Arthur ridiculed the plan, and it came
to nothing.

The constitutional act, which became law, July 25, 1828, to terminate 1836, but extended until
now, differs in many of its provisions from the last. The governor is president, and has a
deliberative and casting vote. The council is increased from five or seven to ten or fifteen;
the oath of secresy is abolished; drafts of acts are gazetted; a law cannot be made by the
crown or the governor alone; two-thirds of the council must be present; although previous duties
are confirmed, no new tax can be imposed except for local purposes expressed in the bill; ordinances
must be conformable to English laws; all statutes in operation at the date of the act were
applied to the colony, all others may be adopted. A member may draft a bill, which the governor
must lay, verbatim, on the council table, with his reasons for refusing to propose it. A member
may record his protest, and a majority is necessary to pass a measure. The members are appointed
by the crown, and vacancies are filled up by the governor: they must be resident; ex-officio
they are magistrates. The preliminary certificate of the chief justice, required by the former
act, is substituted by another clause, which compels the council to reconsider a bill declared
by the judge repugnant to the laws of England, or the act constituting the council.

The British legislature, in criminal cases, establishes a military jury alone: challenge is
allowed for direct interests, and magistrates may act in default of commissioned officers;
but in civil actions assessors are continued. But the local council is authorised to institute
trial by jury, under such limitations as may be deemed meet. It is under this act of parliament
that the colony has seen the jury-box delivered up to civilians; but awaits the hour which
the law itself foretells, when in recognising the ancient principle of representation it records
the purpose of resuming it, "so soon as the cause shall cease to operate which had forbidden
its immediate observance."[154]

In transmitting this bill, Sir George Murray explained that by the clause which superseded
the veto of the chief justice, it was intended to avoid a collision of opinion between the
high functionaries of government. Nothing, however, but the most urgent necessity would justify
the governor in setting aside his opinion.[155]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 149: April, 1826.]

[Footnote 150: Letter from a Lady (Mrs. Adey), inserted in the Morning Herald, 1827.]

[Footnote 151: Mudie's Felonry of New South Wales, p. 52.]

[Footnote 152: Dr. Wardell was murdered some years after by bushrangers.]

[Footnote 153: May 20th, 1826.]

SECTION V.

Under the former act, the attorney general could refuse to file a bill, and exercised this
discretion in a case of libel. The new law authorised the court to permit an information to
be exhibited by any person, and the attorney general was bound to indict, except in felony
or capital prosecutions. Mr. Jennings, a solicitor, claimed the interference of the court against
the attorney general, Mr. Montagu. Savery, who was transported for forgery, was sued for a
debt; but Mr. Montagu, who had been a passenger with the debtor's wife, and felt interested
in his welfare, stayed proceedings by verbal guarantee. When Jennings attempted to enforce
the agreement, Montagu replied that he was more to be affected by the sun than the wind; and
added, "I know how to defend myself against a person ten times more able or wicked than yourself."
The judge decided that the attorney general was not bound to sign a bill of indictment against,
or to prosecute himself.

The indemnity due on a returned bill of exchange was decided by the court (1826), on a friendly
suit, Cartwright v. Mulgrave, at the expense of the merchants. It was deemed proper to give
a high compensation, both to solace for disappointment, and discourage a careless issue of
bills. The plaintiff paid £112 currency for £100 sterling, calculating that £120 currency would
be required in London for the £100 sterling. The assessors fixed 25 per cent. to cover all
losses, and the sum has been allowed by the supreme court on all similar cases to this day.

Captain Dillon, of the Research, East India Company's ship, the discoverer of the relics of
La Perouse, visited Hobart Town. He was prosecuted for assault and false imprisonment by Dr.
Tytler, a gentleman commissioned by the Asiatic Society to conduct the scientific enquiries
the voyage might favor. He was seized, confined to his cabin, threatened with the lash, and
guarded by New Zealand savages, among whom were two, called by Dillon Prince Brian Boru, and
his Excellency Morgan M'Murrah, who espoused the quarrel of the captain, and offered to grill
and eat the unfortunate physician. The jealousy and violence of Dillon strongly indicated insanity,
and Dr. Tytler represented his fears to the second in command. This opinion became known to
the captain, and led to the assault and imprisonment, from which the doctor was released by
a writ of habeas corpus. The chief justice, in pronouncing judgment, explained the absolute
power and stringent responsibility of a captain in the management of his company, and sentenced
Dillon to fine and imprisonment: the latter was remitted, in consideration of his enterprise.

The public treasury was robbed of £1,400 (1827). The thieves entered at night, while the sentinel
was on guard, and the rifled chest was found hidden under a tomb in the adjacent burial ground.
Three persons, and the sentinel, were tried for the offence; but on the second day, the crown
prosecutor was not in his place. This truant lawyer was enjoying a breakfast, while the court
and prisoners were watching the door of entrance. The patience of the judge gave way, and he
directed a verdict of "not guilty" to be entered. The crown relieved the treasurer from his
responsibility for the loss.

The case of Isaac (Ikey) Solomon, a noted receiver, occasioned a long discussion of great colonial
interest. This man having been committed for trial, escaped from Newgate; but his wife, implicated
in the same transaction, was transported. A short time after, he appeared in Van Diemen's Land,
under the name of Sloman, and applied for his wife as an assigned servant: to this the governor
consented, but transmitted to England an account of his presence. Towards the close of 1829,
a letter, enclosing an affidavit of Mr. Wontner, the governor of Newgate, was addressed by
the secretary of state to the governor, directing the arrest of the fugitive. A consultation
was held at the secretary's office, to which Mr. Gellibrand was invited, who declared that
the instruments forwarded were insufficient. A warrant, however, was issued for Solomon's capture,
and he was lodged in gaol. On the application of Mr. Gellibrand, the supreme court granted
a writ of habeas corpus, and the question arose whether a colonial secretary had power to act
under instructions from the secretary of state, and without examination transmit a person,
on a presumption of guilt, over half the globe. The judge admitted that the boasted liberty
of the subject would be a delusion, were such powers vested in the local authorities. After
a lengthened research and repeated hearing, he was unable to find a precedent, or to solve
the difficulty of a case so new.

Mr. Montagu, the attorney-general, maintained that the writ had been improperly granted; that
on the face of the warrant there was no illegality. The chief justice, however, was dissatisfied,
and desired proof that the secretary of state could grant a warrant without sworn testimony
in cases of felony, and that Mr. Burnett, the colonial secretary, possessed the same powers.
Mr. Montagu, who had recently suffered ill health, refused to argue the question; and to the
complaint of the bench replied with asperity. The chief justice still urged that he had received
no assistance on the part of the crown. Montagu rejoined, that speaking not as attorney general,
but as an advocate, he repelled such assertions. "I will not," said he, "allow your honor,
or any man in Christendom, to dare to make such observations without repelling them." The caution
of the chief justice was extremely gratifying to the colony. The arrest went to the foundation
of personal freedom, and assumed a power capable of great error and perversion.

In this case there was no danger of mistake; and the governor, having no doubt of the prisoner's
guilt, determined he should not escape: Mr. Capon, the chief constable, cut the knot by putting
Solomon on board a vessel, and conveying him to England. The adventure was barely successful;
Solomon was acquitted on the greater part of the indictments. The legal claim of parties to
the plunder found on his premises could not be established, except by his conviction.

On a trial of Salmon and Browne, for a murder at Macquarie Harbour (1829), a military jury
exhibited that institution in no pleasing form. They disagreed on their verdict. Lieutenant
Matheson conceiving that the facts did not sustain the indictment, declined to convict. His
co-jurors were unanimous; and after three days and nights resistance he submitted. On the Saturday
evening the men were sentenced, and executed on the Monday following. Their confession left
no doubt of their guilt: they had committed murder that they might escape from misery; but
they asserted that the principal was Browne, and the accessory Salmon--the reverse of the indictment.
During their long consultation the jurors were allowed refreshment; but on the Friday evening
several resolved to elope: at a late hour they broke past the astonished constables, and returned
to their homes. They were, however, recalled by the sheriff, and kept under stricter watch
until the trial ended.

Amusements of the turf, officially patronised in other countries, were discouraged in this.
From an early date, occasional matches were made for large stakes; but in 1827, races were
regularly established at Ross. The course was lined off, a stand erected, in which about fifty
well dressed persons were spectators. The riders were equipped in different colored clothing,
and as they darted along, obscured at intervals by foliage, the scene was picturesque and animated.
A race was contested by Messrs. Gregson and Hardwicke, which the latter lost. A public dinner
followed; but the waiter was blindfolded, and his pudding stolen as he entered the tent. The
hats and coats disappeared; and one cavalier was robbed of his boots. "These things," said
the reporter, "are fraught with discomfort, and disgraceful in themselves:" an opinion which
time has not shaken.

Arthur probably had no great taste for such pleasures; but he ascribed his unwillingness to
support them, to their tendency to excite the prisoner population, and seduce them into disobedience
and crime. No regulations or punishments could hinder their haunting the tents, or deter them
from intemperance and consequent miseries.

Happily dissention disappeared in the presence of distress. Arthur's name is on the list of
subscription for the family of Captain Laughton, who having lost his property by shipwreck
and fraud, was drowned on the coast. Governor Arthur gave twenty guineas, and thus fixed the
high scale of colonial benevolence, which no vicissitude of public affairs has abated.

The largest private subscriber was Captain Carne, of the Cumberland; not less unfortunate than
Laughton. When no tidings were heard of the vessel, it was supposed she had foundered; but
in the year 1828, Captain Duthie, of the Bengal Merchant, threw light on her fate. He had found
the Clarinda, Captain Crew, at Rio, who had been boarded in lat. 8° S. The pirates chained
him to the deck while they robbed the vessel: he saw a bucket, on which he could trace the
word Cumberland. Some of the pirates proposed that Crew should walk the plank, but were resisted
by the Captain. A little black boy, shipped by the Clarinda at the Cape de Verde Island, remembered
the pirate vessel as often seen in that port.

In what form the Cumberland perished is not certainly known. Pirates executed in England for
other crimes, were supposed to be guilty of this: more than a hundred and fifty persons perished
by their violence. Some they cut down, and others they cast overboard. They were driven to
the port of Cadiz by a storm, and attempting to negociate a bill they were detected. A ship
of war conveyed them to Gibraltar, where several suffered; others were forwarded to England,
and condemned there. The story of the capture was long a standing topic in the unarmed merchantmen
that passed her track. As the emigrant, even now, approaches the supposed latitude, he hears
with bated breath the fate of the Cumberland, whenever a strange sail darkens the horizon.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 154: Report of the Lords of the Council, May, 1849.]

[Footnote 155: Despatch, 1828.]

SECTION VI.

Attempts were made in the county of Cornwall to form a collegiate institution, for the education
of youth and the advancement of science (1826). It was proposed to erect buildings, to govern
the college by a directory of patrons, and to establish a public library and lecture room.
For these purposes a fund was contributed: twenty-four persons subscribed £50 each on the spot.
A commencement was made at Norfolk Plains; but the project failed, and sunk into a private academy.

In 1828, the government determined to establish a school at New Norfolk, called the "King's
Grammar School." The members of the government were the board of guardians: the master was
in holy orders. This effort was also frustrated. Such attempts were not, however, lost: they
were in reality, not only the pledges but the causes of final success.

But the establishment of the King's Orphan School (1828) was successful. It was chiefly designed
for the numerous children whose parents were unable to support them, who had deserted, or who
were dead. It was placed under the guidance of a committee, and afforded protection to many
children who must have sunk under the influence of a vicious example. In this island the fatherless
have found mercy. In the absence of natural ties, the settlers have often displayed a parental
tenderness in educating the children of the outcast and the stranger.

The public institutions which multiplied at this period, tended to mitigate the spirit of party.
In 1826, several master tradesmen met to project a mechanics' institute. In 1827, they called
a meeting of the inhabitants, who having chosen Mr. Gellibrand their chairman, organised the
institution: the governor was invited to be patron, the chief justice was chosen president,
and Mr. James Wood appointed secretary. Dr. James Ross, called the "Birkbeck of Tasmania,"
delivered the first lecture (July 17), on the science of mechanics. The second, on astronomy,
by Mr. Gellibrand, senior: Mr. Hackett, on steam engines; Mr. Giblin, senior, on astronomy;
and Dr. Turnbull, on chemistry, completed the course. Mr. James Thomson gave lessons in geometry
to a youthful class. These efforts languished during the absence of the secretary in Great
Britain; but in September, 1829, the former lecturers reappeared: contributions were increased,
and a library and apparatus were obtained from England. In 1830, two hundred members were enrolled,
and the institution was promoted by all classes of society.

Among its supporters, Dr. James Ross occupied the first place: a man whose name will be ever
mentioned with respect. His political career does not receive or deserve unqualified praise:
as a partizan of Arthur, he sometimes sanctioned by his pen what it is difficult to vindicate;
but he contributed to the intellectual advancement and external reputation of the colony, beyond
any person of his day. Dr. Ross was the son of a Scotch advocate: educated at Aberdeen University,
and some time employed as a planter in Grenada, where he became an advocate of negro freedom.
He afterwards established a school at Sevenoaks, Kent; but his family kept pace with his fortunes.
He determined to emigrate, and arrived in Van Diemen's Land in 1822. Some error in the shipment
of his goods, upon the schedule of which he claimed 2,560 acres, deprived him of one-half.
He chose his location on the Shannon, and called his cottage the "Hermitage." Here he was vexed
with the incursions of cattle, the perfidy of his servants, the dread of bushrangers, and the
visits of the blacks; and he willingly accepted the office of government printer, which Mr.
Bent had lost. The Courier, his newspaper, patronised by the governor, obtained a large circulation,
and in 1830 published 750 copies. He wrote with great facility and copiousness. In a letter
to a friend, he said--"I write my articles, engrave my vignettes, set the types, adjust the
press. Sometimes I set up a few lines myself, and dictate at the same time to one or two of
my compositors. Sometimes I write three lines of a sentence for one, three lines of a sentence
for another. I teach my own children, nine in all, at the same time that I write paragraphs."[156]

A genial spirit, except when troubled by political anger, usually sparkles in the writings
of Dr. Ross, and in such case they are rather unfair than bitter. Wherever Arthur disliked,
Ross opposed. He denounced the emigration of the poor, and Archbishop Whately charged him with
baseness, in supporting the penal system of transportation; but no colonist would question
his sincerity. Dr. Ross retired from his literary labors in 1837, and not long after closed
his earthly toils. In his last address to the public, he said, "independence of spirit has
been my motto; freedom my watchword; the happiness of my fellow-men my object; and the truth
of our religion my buckler and consolation." Such was his account of himself; and may be left
as his merited eulogium to posterity.

A hand-bill, published during the heat of a political quarrel, from the head-quarters of his
foes, is a curious specimen of party spleen, and may be taken as the set-off to his own:--"Here
lieth the body of James Ross, printer: formerly a negro driver: who spent the remainder of
his days in advocating the cause of torture, triangles, and the gallows." Then follow couplets,
among which are these:--

"Beneath this sod, mark reader, as you pass
 The carcase buried of a great jack-ass:
 Perfidious, smiling, fawning, cringing slave,
 Hell holds his spirit, and his flesh this grave.
 Corruption revels in a kindred soil:
 A carcase fatted on an island's spoil!"

An association, with objects more extensive and more ambitious in organisation, was projected
by John Henderson, Esq., a surgeon, from Calcutta (1829). It was denominated the "Van Diemen's
Land Society." The members proposed to collect and diffuse information respecting the natural
history, produce, mineral worth, statistics, condition, and capabilities of Van Diemen's Land.
The governor accepted the office of patron of the society, and its establishment was celebrated
by a public banquet. In his account of the institution, the founder and president relates that,
although it enrolled the heads of departments and the most respectable settlers,[157] he found
himself surrounded by spectators rather than coadjutors; who, in the absence of "selfish interests"
and personal advantage, could not be stimulated to toil. Dr. Henderson, whatever his science,
was disqualified by his censorious dogmatism, to rule. His work was an outline of projects,
which entered into every imaginable department of political economy, and contemplated a social
revolution. On religion, his ideas were scarcely Christian: he combined the Brahmin and the
Socialist.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 156: Penny Magazine, April, 1832.]

SECTION VII.

The charter of the Van Diemen's Land Bank having expired, it became a joint stock company,
and enlarged its capital to £50,000; ten per cent. being charged upon discounts. The Tasmanian
was a private bank, of which the Messrs. Gellibrand were proprietors. The limited business
carried large profits, and the purchase of bills, not passed in the regular course of discount,
then, as afterwards, yielded large returns. The Derwent, established chiefly by persons connected
with the government, was opened for business on 1st January, 1828, with a capital of £20,000.
At the same time, the Cornwall Bank, with £10,000, was established by the merchants of Launceston;
and the facility of monetary transactions increased on every side. The arrival of considerable
investments from India, brought rupees into extensive circulation, and they formed a great
proportion of the current coin.

The large imports of English goods, and the increase of promissory notes, alarmed several persons
connected with trade. An advertisement, signed John Dunn, offered a quantity of shares in the
Derwent on liberal terms. At a meeting of the shareholders, Mr. Dunn maintained that the liabilities
of the community were dangerous, and twenty times greater than the circulating medium. It was
replied, that bills were chiefly multiplied by re-sales, and that the cash of the consumer
would be transmitted through the whole mercantile chain.

The Van Diemen's Land Bank discovered a singular fraud by the cashier in 1828. Amongst the
large accounts, which were unlikely to be drawn, he debited the cash which he employed as a
private discounter of bills. The sudden presentation of an unexpected draft led to an examination,
and £2,000 were found deficient. The money was refunded, except a trifling amount, and prosecution
waved.

The interest of the officers of the government in the Derwent Bank occasioned complaint. The
risks, liabilities, and antipathies of trade, were deemed unsuited to their duties. At the
governor's request, the relation was disguised, but it was not dissolved.

The state of trade at this time wore a deceptive aspect. Dr. Henderson reckoned the actual
profit of the colony at 1-1/2 per cent., while Mr. Prinsep, a barrister, of Calcutta, described
every branch of business as a path to opulence. In 1829, a merchant sold £1,500 worth of goods
at an advance of 50 per cent., and a credit over three years bearing 15 per cent., amounting
to £2,250 in all. A glut sometimes reduced the value of merchandise below the London price.

"See, how I am changed!" said Mr. Prinsep. "Amongst all the beauties, I am beginning to think
none so beautiful as the interests of capital. Interests alone on mortgage, with the very best
securities, is 15 or 20 per cent. Invest your money in wool, and it brings you a return of
50 per cent. per annum: in the whale-fishery, 100 per cent. Bank dividends now paid are 16
per cent. I only brought down a broken-winded Arab or two, and their hire pays my current expenses.
Money invested in land will be ten-fold its original value in fifteen years. £200 will purchase
a noble property here; £1,000 will buy a fine, healthy, and beautiful estate--two hundred of
them already in cultivation. The whole colony is on the advance, and its resources remain to
be developed." Such was the bright picture published in Calcutta. The influx of speculators
postponed the crisis, and prolonged the delusion.[158]

The increase of capital, and the opening of cash credits, facilitated the operations of the
settlers, but tempted many to ruin. The government rewarded the rapid improvement of estates,
the erection of substantial dwellings, farm buildings, and fences, by grants of land in extension.
To secure the proffered boon the settlers accepted the assistance of money-lenders, whose claims
at length absorbed the proceeds of their toil. During a progress through the colony, the governor
visited many establishments, and distinguished the enterprising agriculturist with special
favor. On his return to head-quarters he expressed the pleasure his inspection had afforded;
and noticed in a public order Mr. Gatenby, of the Isis, as a "good old English yeoman," and
an example of enterprise and skill. Well assured that his Majesty was desirous that the character
of a plain, upright farmer, should meet with encouragement and reward, he added to this settler's
grant 1,000 acres.[159] The "Gatenby farmers" were henceforth noted as a favored class; and
many, anxious for the same recompense, borrowed, enclosed and improved, until they had not
a rood of land to call their own.

The most distinguished money-lender was Sheriff Ferreday, whose ordinary charge was 35 per
cent., or less with ample security. After a few years (1834) he returned to Europe, having
realised £20,000 by usury. At his death, he devised a portion of his wealth to Oxford, to found
a scholarship. He suffered much vituperation, probably with little comparative justice. "His
bible," said Mr. Gellibrand, "is his bill book, and his gold his god"--a quotation from Burke,
highly relished at the time.

The treasury was again robbed in 1832. It was observed the office papers were deranged: constables
were stationed to watch, and a sentinel was placed at the door. The sudden examination of the
chest by the governor discovered a more serious transaction. It appeared, capital had been
borrowed from the chest without authority, to the amount of some thousands; the money was,
however, restored. No public care could reclaim these funds from their tendency to escape,
and they were not deemed sure until out of the custody of the government.

The secretary of state directed the public cash to be deposited with the banks. The treasurer
was not authorised to retain more than £10,000 of paper, and the Van Diemen's Land and Derwent
establishments each received charge of £10,000 cash. During six years, the revenue had risen
from £30,000 to £60,000: notwithstanding a very liberal official expenditure, the surplus funds
(1831) amounted to nearly £40,000.

The interior communication was facilitated both by the business of the police and the cheap
labor in the hands of the crown. The post of Sorell's time was a private speculation, conveyed
on foot, afterwards on horseback. On the 19th June, 1832, a "cheap and expeditious conveyance,
to and from Launceston," was announced. The owner, Mr. J. E. Cox, drove tandem, at the rate
of forty miles a-day: only one passenger was accommodated, at a fare of £5. The practicability
of the journey was then the subject of considerable betting.[160]

In 1827, and during two following seasons, New South Wales suffered a serious drought, which
increased in severity. Rivers were exhausted, and their beds left dry. Not only the want of
rain was felt, but a withering blight, travelling in a defined current over the cultivated
districts, cut off their harvests. In two years the cultivation of wheat in Van Diemen's Land
increased from twenty to thirty thousand acres, and the average price of wheat at Hobart Town
was 8s. per bushel. This stimulated further production, and tended to avert from Van Diemen's
Land the distress, which over speculation and scarcity produced in New South Wales.

This dearth was followed by two plentiful harvests (1831), and a depression of price. The farmers
of New South Wales entreated General Darling to establish a corn law, to check importation.
In declining the project, he attributed the successful competition of this country to the superiority
of its wheat and facility of transit; and hinted that the elder colony was indebted to foreign
supplies for its subsistence.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 157: Observations on the Colonies of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land. By John
Henderson. Calcutta, 1832. p. 5.]

[Footnote 158: Journal of a Voyage to Van Diemen's Land, p. 108.]

[Footnote 159: Gazette, March, 1828.]

[Footnote 160: Until 1832, the post was managed by Mr. Collicott, as a private speculation.
There were nine post stations. The number of newspapers conveyed by post in 1832, was 13,000;
in 1833, 102, 400.--Montagu's Statistics.]

SECTION VIII.

The powers of legislation confided to Arthur did not slumber. The council which enacted the
laws, were chiefly officers of the government, and the discussion of measures was conducted
in private. Whatever course they pursued, was justly ascribed to the governor himself. The
early ordinances of Arthur added some new burden, or limited some indulgence. Their immediate
aspect was, therefore, commonly austere and encroaching, even when their ultimate consequences
were beneficial.

To prevent the clandestine sale of liquors (1827), the council authorised a constable, upon
a magistrate's warrant, granted on the belief of any person that ale, beer, or spirits were
sold, to break open the house and seize the liquor; and unless the owner could satisfy the
magistrate, the constable was permitted to stave and destroy the vessels. For the sale, not
only were heavy penalties imposed, but unless paid the offender was liable to perpetual imprisonment;
and even appeal was prohibited, except the penalty was first paid: one-half to the informer.
This ordinance was afterwards mitigated.

The penal character of the colony was constantly indicated in the entire spirit of legislation.
Thus a house could be broken into at night, when a person suspected as an absconder was expected
to be found there: whoever engaged a convict, though in ignorance of his civil condition, incurred
the penalties of "harboring." Publicans were liable to fines for supplying such persons, even
with common refreshment. Any man might arrest another, whom he chose to fancy a convict at
large. These deviations from the practices of society in its regular state, were occasionally
vexatious, but not commonly. The settlers being acquainted with each other, and the servants
usually known to the constables, prevented those practical evils, otherwise inevitable.

Few colonial enactments have occasioned more vexation than the impounding laws. The interests
of the grazier and agriculturalist were at variance. When the country was parcelled out for
cultivation, the losses and annoyances of the settlers were severe. Their land unfenced, was
often suddenly visited by a herd of several hundreds: their crops were trodden down, and devoured
in a few hours. The invaders when alarmed were soon beyond reach. Nor was this the sole mischief:
tame bullocks, seduced by the interlopers, often joined their flight; many days were spent
before they were recovered; often they were finally lost. The unfortunate farmer, in the most
important season, was compelled to leave his lonely home, and attended by reluctant laborers
travel over many a hill and dale in search of the fugitives, with sadness of heart.

At the accession of Arthur, the country about the Clyde and Shannon was stocked with numerous
herds, and from their bulk, the lands on which they fed were then called the Plains of Bashan.
The herdsmen acquired great skill in tracking and driving the cattle. Their stations were in
advance of the located districts, and opened many fine patches of country. Their horsemanship
was celebrated: they gallopped amidst the trees--now stooping, now leaning to the right or
to the left; avoiding obstruction and escaping collision with wonderful agility. They lived
a half savage life; were the reckless oppressors of the natives; often the accomplices of the
bushrangers, and accused of many crimes. To brand the cattle, they were driven within an enclosure
seven feet high, and when exhausted by hunger, one man armed with a pole threw a loop round
the horns, another entangled the legs, and the beast was branded with a heated iron; then turned
into the woods, or driven to market. Little caution respecting the rights of ownership was
observed: several were capitally convicted, when probably they were careless rather than deliberately
criminal.

An impounding law was proclaimed by Macquarie in 1820; but cattle being often driven to the
pound for the sake of the fees, the ordinance was relaxed by Sorell. This continued the colonial
rule until 1830, when Colonel Arthur enacted a more stringent law. The large stockholders were
great sufferers, and were compelled to reduce their herds and increase their expense. The constables
often corruptly exercised the great power this law gave them: cattle driven to the most distant
pounds were not discovered until their expenses were greater than their value.

The larger herds belonged chiefly to gentlemen, of different families, but of the name of Lord.
In describing their depredations, it was said that a party of the E.L.'s, D.L.'s, or the R.L.'s,
had made an excursion. The complaining farmer was told that he might impound, but not maim
them; but a troop of horsemen were required for this purpose.

The operation of the law was unequal: the small settler fed his stock on the rocks behind his
location, where his rich neighbour, who could influence the police, was a competitor. Often
his stock were never heard of until sold, perhaps to the son of the poundkeeper. Many hundred
were bought for a few shillings each. False claims of damage were set up, and a kind of black
mail was levied on the settlers to preserve their stock from molestation. To protect themselves,
many of the more opulent settlers obtained the appointment of poundkeepers; and this office
was held by persons who claimed the highest station in the country. The incessant complaints
in newspapers of the day, partly prove the severity of the regulation. It was, of course, a
subject of reproach to the government; yet it is certain that, while the injury was partial,
the principle of the law was sound, and its operation on the whole beneficial.

To prevent the increase of dogs, a tax was imposed (1830). The aborigines possessed large packs,
from fifty to three hundred. On the destruction of the aboriginal tribes, these animals escaped,
hunted in large numbers, and committed great havoc, among the flocks: farmers lost five hundred
sheep in a season. By a single gripe these wild marauders destroyed a sheep, and a few minutes
were sufficient to strew the downs with dead. A tax was imposed, from 5s. to £1 each. Large
establishments required many sheep and watch dogs, and the cost amounted to £8 or £10 per annum.
The constables had summary power to destroy canine vagrants without collars, in town or country.

The Huskisson Act applied the laws of England to the colony, and thus it became a question
whether the English interest of 5 per cent. were not the limit of lawful usury. The government
paid larger amounts on the deposits of prisoners, and capital on such terms must have forsaken
the country; the council, therefore, declared the restriction inoperative.

These ordinances were the subject of endless and angry discussion. The feelings of the community
were not carefully consulted, and laws in the main useful, were too often pertinaciously encumbered
with provisions both irritating and needless. The motives of the lawgivers were canvassed without
reserve. They were supposed to employ their powers to facilitate extortion, in the profits
of which they were said to share.

SECTION IX.

The dignity and independence based on landed wealth, is ever the chief allurement of the emigrant.
Whatever his rank, he dreams of the day when he shall dwell in a mansion planned by himself;
survey a wide and verdant landscape called after his name; and sit beneath the vineyard his
own hands planted. To this common ambition the crown directed its appeals: acres, by hundreds
and thousands, were offered for acceptance. The imagination of English readers overleaped a
tedious interval of labor and disappointment. The generous impulse silenced the voice of fear
and distrust: they took a last look at the sepulchres of their fathers, and came forth to establish
their children among the founders of nations.

The distribution of waste lands, a most important function of colonial governors, has been
a source of incessant perplexity and discontent. Sometimes they have been granted with ridiculous
parsimony, and at others with scandalous profusion. Every minister has proposed some novelty:
the regulations of one year have been abandoned the next, and the emigrant who loitered on
his way found the system changed, which had induced him to set forth.

The stewardship of the royal domain has been liable to difficulties peculiar to itself, beside
the full average of official injustice and corruption.

The endowment of emancipists with land, an American practice,[161] was unsuccessfully revived
in New Holland, and continued until the close of Macquarie's administration, when Commissioner
Bigge recommended that no grant should be less than 320 acres.

Instructions under the sign manual, given to the Governor of New South Wales, dated April,
1787, were amplified by others in 1789. To detain the convict population, and to provide them
a future home, were the chief ends proposed. The governor was empowered to shorten their sentences,
and convey to each man, if single, 30 acres; if married, 50; and 10 for every child. The marines
who accompanied the first expedition were encouraged to settle. The non-commissioned officers
received 130; if married, 150; and 10 acres for each child. Private soldiers 100, or 130 acres.
These grants were subject to 2s. per 100 acres, deferred for five years. The minister, anxious
to raise the value of crown land, directed reserves to be made between the allotments, of equal
extent; but the settlers persuaded the governor, or the secretary of state, that the intervals
favored the assaults of the natives, and the scheme was defeated.

The king's instructions made no reference to the superior officers; but it was deemed absurd
to grant the "greatest gifts of the crown to persons who had forfeited their lives," and deny
them to gentlemen bearing commissions in the army.[162] Ensign Cummings accordingly received
25 acres! The subsequent donations of governors compensated for this modest beginning, and
the officers obtained large and valuable portions. One governor conferred a considerable grant
on his expected successor, and was rewarded, when he surrendered the government, with a similar
boon.[163] Macquarie gave Lieutenant-colonel O'Connel and his lady 4,555 acres; to John Blaxland,
6,700 acres.[164] Sir Thomas Brisbane obtained 20,000 acres: 15,000 were given to Mr. Hart
Davis. These were exceptions to the general rule. Official holders of land were interested
in preventing extravagant grants, which lessened the marketable value of their own.

The survey department, always in arrear, neglected to measure off the land, and an order, verbal
or written, was deemed a sufficient title. Not unfrequently, the applicant changed his choice,
and migrated from one spot to another. The governor often permitted the issue of rations and
implements a second time, to enable indolent or insolvent settlers to till a second heritage.[165]
Trade was, however, more agreeable to many emancipists than agriculture. The officers located
near them were willing to purchase their petty farms: thus the small holdings were bought up,[166]
and the estates of the greater landholders were cleared of "lurchers," who preyed on their
flocks.[167]

The small grants of land were productive of much real mischief and little benefit. They fell
chiefly into the hands of spirit dealers, and the government permitted the purchasers to consolidate
all such acquisitions into one large grant.[168]

In 1814, Macquarie issued an order threatening the resumption of grants for non-residence or
alienation. These notices were rather a protest than an interdict, and were so understood.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 161: Eden's Discourse on Banishment.]

[Footnote 162: Collins, vol. i. p. 257.]

[Footnote 163: Commons Report, 1812.]

[Footnote 164: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 165: Ibid.]

[Footnote 166: "A small farm of 30 acres was now offered to me by Bryan: I recommended Mr.
Cox (of New South Wales) to buy it, which he did for £40; half money and half property. I also
purchased for him two others; one of 25 acres, and another of 50 acres, from Mr. Hume, for
£45; another of 30 acres from Thomas Higgins, for £35; and another farm, of 100 acres, I also
purchased for Mr. Cox for £50 and ten gallons of rum. I likewise bought another farm of 100
acres from Captain Campbell for £100; and of Dr. Thompson, a farm of 100 acres, with twenty-five
sheep, an old mare, two fillies and a colt, a cow, and a young ox, for £500: the stock, when
valued, was worth more than the purchase money. Next year (1801) I bought John Ramsay's farm
of 75 acres, for £40; and then Michael Fitzgerald's, with eight large pigs and eighty bushels
of maize, for £100. I let this farm, ten days after, for £40 per year. I then purchased Barrington's
(the celebrated pickpocket), 25 acres, an old brood mare with a colt at her foot, for £100,
and sold the mare a few days after for £85. I then bought 50 acres from Edward Elliot, for
£100, and by these means squared the estate."--Holt's Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 137.]

[Footnote 167: "A lurcher is the lowest order of thieves."--Holt.]

[Footnote 168: Bigge's Report.]

SECTION X.

Van Diemen's Land was divided into counties by Governor King (1805). An imaginary line was
drawn across the island from east to west midway; Buckingham being on the south, and Cornwall
on the north. Macquarie made sections more minute, by a running survey.

In 1826, letters patent were issued, constituting Edward Dumaresq, chief, and Roderick O'Connor
and Peter Murdoch, assistant commissioners, for the survey and valuation of crown lands. They
were instructed in delineating counties, hundreds, and parishes, to observe the natural boundaries
and recognised nominal limits. The parishes were to contain about twenty-five square miles.
On this task they were ten years employed; but their valuation became available so soon as
one parish was proclaimed. The names assigned to the various localities are commonly welcome
to the British ear;[169] though occasionally productive of confusion.[170]

The colonial-office published, in 1824, the conditions on which land would be granted: the
notice contained eighteen clauses, and formed the basis of subsequent regulations. The secretary
of state, however, reserved a discretion in special cases. The parishes were to be surveyed,
valued, and sold: for cash, at a discount of 10 per cent., or credit, at four quarterly instalments.
9,600 acres was the maximum allowed one purchaser.

Free grants were offered to emigrant capitalists: not more than 2,650 acres, nor less than
320; a quit rent of 5 per cent. on the value of the land deferred seven years, and redeemable
within twenty-five years, at twenty years' purchase. One half the value was to be spent in
improvements, on pain of forfeiture. Additional grants were restricted to such as possessed
the means of cultivation, and subject to a quit rent from the date of issue.

A more ample explanation of the views of the crown issued from Downing-street, April 26, 1826.
The conditions of sale were the same as in the notice of 1824. Purchasers of land were now
promised the return of their purchase money, conditionally, that during ten years they could
relieve the crown from an expense ten times its amount, by the employment of convicts, rated
each £16 annually. One-half this amount was offered, in the redemption of quit rents, on the
same conditions; or, when convicts were not attainable, by expending five times the value of
the grant, one-half the quit rent would be extinguished. Grants in extension were promised,
2-1/2 per cent. value on improved value of an original grant, on which five times its value
should be expended; or having so improved his first purchase, the settler was permitted to
buy a second at half price.

By an order published at the Horse-guards, 1826, officers willing to emigrate, not under the
rank of captain, were permitted to sell their commissions; one-third of the price deposited
with the crown, to be repaid on their arrival, and rated as their capital, gave them a title
to free grants. In 1827, the convict clause was withdrawn: the settler was required to produce
£500 capital for each square mile he claimed.

Earl Bathurst suggested to the commander-in-chief, and to the lord high-admiral, that it was
desirable to promote the settlement of naval and military officers in the colonies. Circulars
were accordingly issued from the Horse-guards and Admiralty, in 1827, stating the terms on
which free grants might be engaged. Officers of twenty years standing were exempted from quit
rents; those of fifteen years standing, for twenty years; of ten, for fifteen years; and of
seven, for ten years. The extent of their grant was made to depend on their capital; but they
gave bonds for residence and non-alienation during seven years, or until, upon a grant of 500
acres, valued at 5s., £25 were expended. These offers drew a large number of settlers, both
civil and military. More than five hundred grants, exceeding 500 acres, were issued in four
years ending 1831.

Fictitious schedules of property were sometimes presented, and persons without capital were
enabled by monetary loans to deceive the governor. Dollars, borrowed for the purpose, were
lodged in the banks to the credit of an applicant. A considerable breadth, comprehending a
succession of valuable farms, was parcelled out among several settlers, in virtue of a single
bag of dollars, hired for the purpose.

The act of parliament[171] authorised the subjects of Great Britain to visit the settlement
of New South Wales "without any license whatever." Persons intending to emigrate usually applied
to the secretary of state for permission, and an order for a grant. Their references being
satisfactory, they received a letter to the governor, directing that land should be given them,
proportionate to their "means to bring the same into cultivation." For some time, the settlers
for this colony were obliged to visit New South Wales, to obtain the requisite permission.
To avoid the expense and delay, some entered on lands provisionally assigned them by the lieutenant-governor;
but were in danger of being dispossessed by an applicant at head-quarters. To obviate these
evils, power was conferred on the lieutenant-governor to locate such as might arrive. Applications
from residents were received only at stated periods; and when the herds were exhausted by loans,
and the stores by the issue of rations, were indefinitely postponed; but such as brought orders
from the secretary of state, were accommodated at once.

The newly-arrived emigrant, distrustful of reports, or ignorant of the nature of the country,
usually went out in search of a home. He was received with hospitality as a guest, but found
himself unwelcome as a neighbour. Often, after long travel, he would scarcely find a spot within
an accessible distance unclaimed. "All that is mine!" was the common answer to his enquiries.
A present of sufficient value removed many such obstacles, and gave the wanderer a clue to
a desirable resting place. Such as were too dull to comprehend this process of discovery, often
lost much time in unavailing toil.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 169: Counties in Van Diemen's Land.

Northern.            Midland.                Southern.

Devon,               Westmoreland,           Kent,
Dorset,              Somerset,               Buckingham,
Cornwall.            Glamorgan,              Pembroke,
                     Cumberland.             Monmouth.]

[Footnote 170: The writer was present when a newspaper was delivered, directed from Sydney
to "Launceston, Cornwall." It was conveyed to England, where the Cornish postmaster wrote,
"Try Van Diemen's Land."]

[Footnote 171: 53 Geo. iii. cap. 153.]

SECTION XI.

Sir Thomas Brisbane,[172] to facilitate the employment of prisoners, required that the grantee
should, for every 100 acres of land granted, enter into bonds to employ one convict for the
term of his transportation, or the average, ten years. By receiving a second convict for one
year, he was promised a bonus of a second 100 acres.

This condition was a serious obstacle to the ready sale of location orders. It was not, however,
unnecessary: many casual visitors and masters of merchantmen obtained grants, which they sold
instantly and cleared a considerable sum. Land speculators were greatly disconcerted by the
incumbrance: many were anxious to throw up land orders, and attempted to recover money for
the goods given in exchange. A trial (1825), in which Mr. Underwood, of Sydney, was the plaintiff,
is a curious example of this traffic. The defendant had given in payment for 21 cwt. of sugar,
an order for 200 acres of land; but when the convict clause was promulgated, the land was deemed
worthless, and the plaintiff sued for £59, the price of the sugar. The judge, however, resisted
the claim, and declared that the order had paid for the sugar, although its sale was clandestine
and illegal.

The occupation of land was considered a sufficient proof of ownership, if not disputed within
a short period, or negatived by written evidence. To resume a location, as the courts were
then constituted, required the issue of a special commission, and could be only effected through
a jury. On a trial, in which the Rev. Robert Knopwood was defendant, Judge Field stated that
the conditions of early grants were practically void. Knopwood had agreed to sell the estate
of Cottage Green for £2,000, to Captain Jones, who paid £1,000 in hand, and entered into bonds
for £1,000 for payment of the residue. Knopwood bound himself in a similar penalty to give
up the premises when the whole sum should be paid. The widow of Jones sued for release from
this bond (1821). The lawyers urged that Knopwood had violated the clause against alienation,
and was liable to forfeit the whole. The judge refused to entertain this plea; but set aside
the forfeiture as unequal: the estate, according to witnesses, was not worth more than £1,000.
The judge strongly condemned the unclerical rigour of the defendant. The celebrity of Cottage
Green, now occupied by extensive mercantile establishments, gives special interest to the judgment.

Efforts to resume land, not properly conveyed, were successfully resisted; and jurors appear
to have determined, at all times, to deny a verdict to the crown. In 1824, in an action for
intrusion (Rex v. Cooper), the jury delivered a verdict, that "the defendant had obtained possession
in the usual manner." The judges asserted that no title was good, except such as passed under
the great seal. A locatee, in an action of ejectment (Birchell v. Glover), who possessed from
1811 until 1823, was supplanted by a person in 1824, who obtained a grant: the judge directed
for the defendant, but the jury found for the plaintiff. A similar case (Martin v. Munn, 1833),
was tried three times with the same issue. The judge directed, that although long occupation
by the plaintiff were proved, the grant to the defendant was a virtual resumption by the crown:
this the jury considered inequitable, and found for the original occupier.

The trial of a cause in Van Diemen's Land (Terry v. Spode, 1835), led to the exposure of a
fatal error in land titles throughout the colonies. Spode had claimed and taken possession
of a portion of land occupied by Terry, who brought an action of ejectment: the jury gave a
verdict in his favour; but it was stated by counsel that both grants were "defective and void
in law."

This error had been discovered by Mr. Alfred Stephen (1829). The secretary of state was consulted,
and authority received by Arthur to amend the form. The royal instructions had authorised the
governors to grant lands, which they had always issued in their own names, instead of in the
name of the king. The judges stated that in every case, whether of a subject or the king, a
conveyance must be made in the name of the owner, and not of the attorney. These grants were,
therefore, utterly void. In New South Wales the defect was cured by special legislation; but
in Van Diemen's Land every grant was subject to an ordeal. Those already issued by Arthur had
been legally worded after the defect was discovered; but the government of New South Wales
continued the invalid form, until the judgment of the court led to its revision.[173]

The importance of settling the titles to land was universally felt, but the difficulties were
not easily overcome. Prior to 1826, the Van Diemen's Land grants were drawn up in New South
Wales. They were full of errors of all kinds: the boundaries, quantity, and names were mis-described;
the land intended for one man was conveyed to another; inaccurate charts, on which grants were
marked, multiplied mistakes; the surveyors ran their chains over the land, and marked off five
or six farms in as many hours. They erased and altered their descriptions: accurate measurement
discovered that many were without a title to the land in their possession, or that their grants
were partly occupied by a next neighbour. The dates of these instruments were often arbitrary,
yet they bound to cultivation and non-alienation, and often within years already past. Some
printed forms contained stipulations not applicable, and became inoperative on the face of
them: they described hundreds of acres in excess, but stated that those beyond the king's instructions,
should be taken as not granted at all.

When Mr. Alfred Stephen pointed out the defect in form, the government concealed the mistake
until the king granted authority for correcting the error by royal warrant, received in 1830.
It now became necessary to ascertain disputed titles. It was proposed by some to establish
them by a general act: against this course Mr. A. Stephen protested, and pointed out consequences,
that proved his objections were just. Many of these illustrate the idle and fraudulent manner
in which the public business is often transacted. A grant issued in 1823, gave one side-line
32 acres, written over an erasure. An investigation took place: a record book kept in Hobart
Town shewed a similar erasure. The same entry had been preserved at New South Wales, and there
it was 22 acres: the holding party was innocent; but his title was invalid. Still more extensive
erasures were discovered in a valuable property; the entire description had been changed and
another substituted. At Richmond, two persons selected land adjoining each other: their grants
had been exchanged, and he who was thus deprived of the most valuable, resorted to a chancery
suit for its recovery. At Norfolk Plains a great many farms were located and occupied for a
number of years. They commenced their measurements from opposite points, and each farm gradually
approximated. When their lands were surveyed by the grant deeds, every owner found that his
side-line advanced upon his neighbour, until at last the central proprietor saw his estate
absorbed. In Oatlands, two properties were measured according to the common practice: the side-lines
were guessed at; one cultivated, and the other sold his property; but when measured, the improver
of his estate discovered that his homestead, and nearly one hundred acres of his land fell
by description to his neighbour.

At Bagdad Rivulet, a surveyor measured eight grants adjoining. All the bearings given in the
grants were mistaken: to adjust them, one would lose the back of his farm and take his neighbour's,
who would go on the next location and obtain a well cultivated farm.

To have confirmed all former titles would have been obviously unjust. In 1823, a location was
given, but abandoned. Sorell advised a settler that came after to take the land, which he did.
For fourteen years he lived there, and spent £3,000: the original owner re-appeared with a
Brisbane grant, as a claimant of this property.

Colonel Arthur adopted Stephen's recommendation in 1831, and announced in the Gazette, January
following, its approval by the secretary of state.

All existing grants being invalid, the settlers depended on the justice of the crown to perfect
their titles. The royal warrant of the king authorised the renunciation of claims founded on
the informality, and deeds drawn in the king's name, containing the same conditions as the
governors' grants, were offered at 5s. Now, however, the grants contained a true description
of the land, and the name of the rightful possessor. The loose system of conveyancing, formerly
expressed rather the intention than the act of transfer. Property had been subdivided, especially
in the town: these parcels, however small, were now conveyed direct to the actual owner, subject
to their proportion of quit rent. Possession and reputed ownership, were taken as a title.
Those whose property was in excess, or less than their description, had their proportion of
quit rents adjusted. The governor threatened with resumption lands obtained by exhibiting false
pretensions to capital, or alienated before the period prescribed, or by collusive sheriff's
sales. Oblivion was granted to breaches of conditions, when not fraudulent, on payment of 6d.
per acre fine. Commissioners, James Simpson and George Frankland, Esqrs., were appointed to
carry out this admirable plan (1832).

An act, constituting the caveat board a court of equity and good conscience, was passed in
1835. The gentlemen who framed it held the board, "in the sacred light of a court," although
the concurrence of the governor was necessary to render its decisions valid. Commissioners
were appointed to examine on oath. They were empowered to obtain a verdict from a jury in a
special case: by appealing to the judge of the supreme court, they could submit a feigned issue
for trial. In clear cases, however, after three months' notice, they were permitted to adjudicate.
The decisions of this board have usually satisfied the public: they have been nearly always
confirmed, and have prevented boundless litigation.[174]

Many surveyors were employed, who acted in the several districts (1838). The survey of 100
acres was effected for £5, of 2,000 for £20. The list of locations being published, the surveyor-general
held a movable court, to identify and arrange the boundaries. It was part of his duty to mediate
between the contending parties. These preliminaries being settled, the commissioners issued
grants to such as made good their claim.

The proof of intention on the part of any officers, by custom entitled to grant occupation,
has commonly barred the rights of the crown; but for this, a large amount of practical injustice
must have been inflicted. Such was the only form in which grants could be distributed, when
the country was just occupied, and the science of mensuration and accounts almost unknown.

To this, the case of the heir-at-law of Major Abbott is nearly a solitary exception. Being
about to retire from office, Major Abbott applied for a reserve of 210 valuable acres at Launceston,
and 3,000 acres elsewhere. On the recommendation of Sorell, then lieutenant-governor, who stated
minutely the land desired, Sir Thomas Brisbane ordered the ground to be marked off as "crown
reserves:" and Sorell, being just superseded, wrote on the order with a pencil the name of
Abbott. Several persons at Launceston regretted the alienation of land useful to the township,
and petitioned accordingly. Their views were favored by Arthur, and the claim of Abbott was
supported by Sorell. Lord Bathurst ordered the grants in question to be given. Arthur, however,
again appealed, and the decision in favour of Abbott was cancelled; but the 3,000 acres, reserved
in the same terms and at the same time, were confirmed. Major Abbott through life maintained
his right to the Launceston reserve, and devolved its prosecution on his son; for twenty years
he contested his right with the agents of the crown. During the litigation its value has ranged
from £2,000 to £8,000.

On an appeal to the secretary of state, Lord John Russell referred the claimant to trial by
jury. He erected a house on the ground: this a chain gang was employed to destroy. He brought
his action for trespass, which the law officers met by a demurrer. On his application for a
deed of grant, a caveat was entered by Major Wentworth. Two of the commissioners decided in
Abbott's favour, and the third, Dr. Turnbull, against him. The usual course was to issue grants
on the decision of the major part: this the governor refused, and the case was once more referred
to the secretary of state. In 1849, Earl Grey declared that the governor had exercised a sound
discretion in refusing the advice of the caveat board,[175] and thus finally negatived the claim.

