They came to Mary's home; and next door was the home of the Slav woman, Mrs. Zamboni, about
whom in the past she had told him so many funny stories. Mrs. Zamboni had had a new baby every
year for sixteen years, and eleven of these babies were still alive. Now her husband was trapped
in Number One, and she was distracted, wandering about the streets with the greater part of
her brood at her heels. At intervals she would emit a howl like a tortured animal, and her
brood would take it up in various timbres. Hal stopped to listen to the sounds, but Mary put
her fingers into her ears and fled into the house. Hal followed her, and saw her fling herself
into a chair and burst into hysterical weeping. And suddenly Hal realised what a strain this
terrible affair had been upon Mary. It had been bad enough to him--but he was a man, and more
able to contemplate sights of horror. Men went to their deaths in industry and war, and other
men saw them go and inured themselves to the spectacle. But women were the mothers of these
men; it was women who bore them in pain, nursed them and reared them with endless patience--women
could never become inured to the spectacle! Then too, the women's fate was worse. If the men
were dead, that was the end of them; but the women must face the future, with its bitter memories,
its lonely and desolate struggle for existence. The women must see the children suffering,
dying by slow stages of deprivation.

Hal's pity for all suffering women became concentrated upon the girl beside him. He knew how
tenderhearted she was. She had no man in the mine, but some day she would have, and she was
suffering the pangs of that inexorable future. He looked at her, huddled in her chair, wiping
away her tears with the hem of her old blue calico. She seemed unspeakably pathetic--like a
child that has been hurt. She was sobbing out sentences now and then, as if to herself: "Oh,
the poor women, the poor women! Did ye see the face of Mrs. Jonotch? She'd jumped into the
smoking pit-mouth if they'd let her!"

"Don't suffer so, Mary!" pleaded Hal--as if he thought she could stop.

"Let me alone!" she cried. "Let me have it out!" And Hal, who had had no experience with hysteria,
stood helplessly by.

"There's more misery than I ever knew there was!" she went on. "'Tis everywhere ye turn, a
woman with her eyes burnin' with suffering wondering if she'll ever see her man again! Or some
mother whose lad may be dying and she can do nothin' for him!"

"And neither can you do anything, Mary," Hal pleaded again. "You're only sorrowing yourself
to death."

"Ye say that to me?" she cried. "And when ye were ready to let Jeff Cotton shoot ye, because
you were so sorry for Mrs. David! No, the sights here nobody can stand."

He could think of nothing to answer. He drew up a chair and sat by her in silence, and after
a while she began to grow calmer, and wiped away her tears, and sat gazing dully through the
doorway into the dirty little street.

Hal's eyes followed hers. There were the ash-heaps and tomato-cans, there were two of Mrs.
Zamboni's bedraggled brood, poking with sticks into a dump-heap--looking for something to eat,
perhaps, or for something to play with. There was the dry, waste grass of the road-side, grimy
with coal-dust, as was everything else in the village. What a scene!--And this girl's eyes
had never a sight of anything more inspiring than this. Day in and day out, all her life long,
she looked at this scene! Had he ever for a moment reproached her for her "black moods"? With
such an environment could men or women be cheerful--could they dream of beauty, aspire to heights
of nobility and courage, to happy service of their fellows? There was a miasma of despair over
this place; it was not a real place--it was a dream-place--a horrible, distorted nightmare!
It was like the black hole in the ground which haunted Hal's imagination, with men and boys
at the bottom of it, dying of asphyxiation!

Suddenly it came to Hal--he wanted to get away from North Valley! To get away at all costs!
The place had worn down his courage; slowly, day after day, the sight of misery and want, of
dirt and disease, of hunger, oppression, despair, had eaten the soul out of him, had undermined
his fine structure of altruistic theories. Yes, he wanted to escape--to a place where the sun
shone, where the grass grew green, where human beings stood erect and laughed and were free.
He wanted to shut from his eyes the dust and smoke of this nasty little village; to stop his
ears to that tormenting sound of women wailing: "O, mein Mann! O, mein Mann!"

He looked at the girl, who sat staring before her, bent forward, her arms hanging limply over
her knees.

"Mary," he said, "you must go away from here! It's no place for a tenderhearted girl to be.
It's no place for any one!"

She gazed at him dully for a moment. "It was me that was tellin' you to go away," she said,
at last. "Ever since ye came here I been sayin' it! Now I guess ye know what I mean."

"Yes," he said, "I do, and I want to go. But I want you to go too."

"D'ye think 'twould do me any good, Joe?" she asked. "D'ye think 'twould do me any good to
get away? Could I ever forget the sights I've seen this day? Could I ever have any real, honest
happiness anywhere after this?"

He tried to reassure her, but he was far from reassured himself. How would it be with him?
Would he ever feel that he had a right to happiness after this? Could he take any satisfaction
in a pleasant and comfortable world, knowing that it was based upon such hideous misery? His
thoughts went to that world, where careless, pleasure-loving people sought gratification of
their desires. It came to him suddenly that what he wanted more than to get away was to bring
those people here, if only for a day, for an hour, that they might hear this chorus of wailing
women!

SECTION 29.

Mary made Hal swear that he would not get into a fight with Cotton; then they went to Number
Two. They found the mules coming up, and the bosses promising that in a short while the men
would be coming. Everything was all right--there was not a bit of danger! But Mary was afraid
to trust Hal, in spite of his promise, so she lured him back to Number One.

They found that a rescue-car had just arrived from Pedro, bringing doctors and nurses, also
several "helmets." These "helmets" were strange looking contrivances, fastened over the head
and shoulders, air-tight, and provided with oxygen sufficient to last for an hour or more.
The men who wore them sat in a big bucket which was let down the shaft with a windlass, and
every now and then they pulled on a signal-cord to let those on the surface know they were
alive. When the first of them came back, he reported that there were bodies near the foot of
the shaft, but apparently all dead. There was heavy black smoke, indicating a fire somewhere
in the mine; so nothing more could be done until the fan had been set up. By reversing the
fan, they could draw out the smoke and gases and clear the shaft.

The state mine-inspector had been notified, but was ill at home, and was sending one of his
deputies. Under the law this official would have charge of all the rescue work, but Hal found
that the miners took no interest in his presence. It had been his duty to prevent the accident,
and he had not done so. When he came, he would do what the company wanted.

Some time after dark the workers began to come out of Number Two, and their women, waiting
at the pit-mouth, fell upon their necks with cries of thankfulness. Hal observed other women,
whose men were in Number One, and would perhaps never come out again, standing and watching
these greetings with wistful, tear-filled eyes. Among those who came out was Jack David, and
Hal walked home with him and his wife, listening to the latter abuse Jeff Cotton and Alec Stone,
which was an education in the vocabulary of class-consciousness. The little Welsh woman repeated
the pit-boss's saying, "Damn the men, save the mules!" She said it again and again--it seemed
to delight her like a work of art, it summed up so perfectly the attitude of the bosses to
their men! There were many other people repeating that saying, Hal found; it went all over
the village, in a few days it went all over the district. It summed up what the district believed
to be the attitude of the coal-operators to the workers!

Having got over the first shock of the disaster, Hal wanted information, and he questioned
Big Jack, a solid and well-read man who had given thought to every aspect of the industry.
In his quiet, slow way, he explained to Hal that the frequency of accidents in this district
was not due to any special difficulty in operating these mines, the explosiveness of the gases
or the dryness of the atmosphere. It was merely the carelessness of those in charge, their
disregard of the laws for the protection of the men. There ought to be a law with "teeth" in
it--for example, one providing that for every man killed in a coal-mine his heirs should receive
a thousand dollars, regardless of who had been to blame for the accident. Then you would see
how quickly the operators would get busy and find remedies for the "unusual" dangers!

As it was, they knew that no matter how great their culpability, they could get off with slight
loss. Already, no doubt, their lawyers were on the spot, and by the time the first bodies were
brought out, they would be fixing things up with the families. They would offer a widow a ticket
back to the old country; they would offer a whole family of orphaned children, maybe fifty
dollars, maybe a hundred dollars--and it would be a case of take it or leave it. You could
get nothing from the courts; the case was so hopeless that you could not even find a lawyer
to make the attempt. That was one reform in which the companies believed, said "Big Jack,"
with sarcasm; they had put the "shyster lawyer" out of business!

SECTION 30.

There followed a night and then another day of torturing suspense. The fan came, but it had
to be set up before anything could be done. As volumes of black smoke continued to pour from
the shaft, the opening was made tight with a board and canvas cover; it was necessary, the
bosses said, but to Hal it seemed the climax of horror. To seal up men and boys in a place
of deadly gases!

There was something peculiarly torturing in the idea of men caught in a mine; they were directly
under one's feet, yet it was impossible to get to them, to communicate with them in any way!
The people on top yearned to them, and they, down below, yearned back. It was impossible to
forget them for even a few minutes. People would become abstracted while they talked, and would
stand staring into space; suddenly, in the midst of a crowd, a woman would bury her face in
her hands and burst into tears, and then all the others would follow suit.

Few people slept in North Valley during those two nights. They held mourning parties in their
homes or on the streets. Some house-work had to be done, of course, but no one did anything
that could be left undone. The children would not play; they stood about, silent, pale, like
wizened-up grown people, over-mature in knowledge of trouble. The nerves of every one were
on edge, the self-control of every one balanced upon a fine point.

It was a situation bound to be fruitful in imaginings and rumours, stimulated to those inclined
to signs and omens--the seers of ghosts, or those who went into trances, or possessed second
sight or other mysterious gifts. There were some living in a remote part of the village who
declared they had heard explosions under the ground, several blasts in quick succession. The
men underground were setting off dynamite by way of signalling!

In the course of the second day Hal sat with Mary Burke upon the steps of her home. Old Patrick
lay within, having found the secret of oblivion at O'Callahan's. Now and then came the moaning
of Mrs. Zamboni, who was in her cabin with her brood of children. Mary had been in to feed
them, because the distracted mother let them starve and cry. Mary was worn out, herself; the
wonderful Irish complexion had faded, and there were no curves to the vivid lips. They had
been sitting in silence, for there was nothing to talk of but the disaster--and they had said
all there was to say about that. But Hal had been thinking while he watched Mary.

"Listen, Mary," he said, at last; "when this thing is over, you must really come away from
here. I've thought it all out--I have friends in Western City who will give you work, so you
can take care of yourself, and of your brother and sister too. Will you go?"

But she did not answer. She continued to gaze indifferently into the dirty little street.

"Truly, Mary," he went on. "Life isn't so terrible everywhere as it is here. Come away! Hard
as it is to believe, you'll forget all this. People suffer, but then they stop suffering; it's
nature's way--to make them forget."

"Nature's way has been to beat me dead," said she.

"Yes, Mary. Despair can become a disease, but it hasn't with you. You're just tired out. If
you'll try to rouse yourself--" And he reached over and caught her hand with an attempt at
playfulness. "Cheer up, Mary! You're coming away from North Valley."

She turned and looked at him. "Am I?" she asked, impassively; and she went on studying his
face. "Who are ye, Joe Smith? What are ye doin' here?"

"Working in a coal-mine," he laughed, still trying to divert her.

But she went on, as gravely as before. "Ye're no working man, that I know. And ye're always
offering me help! Ye're always sayin' what ye can do for me!" She paused and there came some
of the old defiance into her face. "Joe, ye can have no idea of the feelin's that have got
hold of me just now. I'm ready to do something desperate; ye'd best be leavin' me alone, Joe!"

"I think I understand, Mary. I would hardly blame you for anything you did."

She took up his words eagerly. "Wouldn't ye, Joe? Ye're sure? Then what I want is to get the
truth from ye. I want ye to talk it out fair!"

"All right, Mary. What is it?"

But her defiance had vanished suddenly. Her eyes dropped, and he saw her fingers picking nervously
at a fold of her dress. "About us, Joe," she said. "I've thought sometimes ye cared for me.
I've thought ye liked to be with me--not just because ye were sorry for me, but because of
me. I've not been sure, but I can't help thinkin' it's so. Is it?"

"Yes, it is," he said, a little uncertainly. "I do care for you."

"Then is it that ye don't care for that other girl all the time?"

"No," he said, "it's not that."

"Ye can care for two girls at the same time?"

He did not know what to say. "It would seem that I can, Mary."

She raised her eyes again and studied his face. "Ye told me about that other girl, and I been
wonderin', was it only to put me off? Maybe it's me own fault, but I can't make meself believe
in that other girl, Joe!"

"You're mistaken, Mary," he answered, quickly. "What I told you was true."

"Well, maybe so," she said, but there was no conviction in her tone. "Ye come away from her,
and ye never go where she is or see her--it's hard to believe ye'd do that way if ye were very
close to her. I just don't think ye love her as much as ye might. And ye say you do care some
for me. So I've thought--I've wondered--"

She stopped, forcing herself to meet his gaze: "I been tryin' to work it out! I know ye're
too good a man for me, Joe. Ye come from a better place in life, ye've a right to expect more
in a woman--"

"It's not that, Mary!"

But she cut him short. "I know that's true! Ye're only tryin' to save my feelin's. I know ye're
better than me! I've tried hard to hold me head up, I've tried a long time not to let meself
go to pieces. I've even tried to keep cheerful, telling meself I'd not want to be like Mrs.
Zamboni, forever complainin'. But 'tis no use tellin' yourself lies! I been up to the church,
and heard the Reverend Spragg tell the people that the rich and poor are the same in the sight
of the Lord. And maybe 'tis so, but I'm not the Lord, and I'll never pretend I'm not ashamed
to be livin' in a place like this."

"I'm sure the Lord has no interest in keeping you here--" he began.

But she broke in, "What makes it so hard to bear is knowin' there's so many wonderful things
in the world, and ye can never have them! 'Tis as if ye had to see them through a pane of glass,
like in the window of a store. Just think, Joe Smith--once, in a church in Sheridan, I heard
a lady sing beautiful music; once in my whole lifetime! Can ye guess what it meant to me?"

"Yes, Mary, I can."

"But I had that all out with meself--years ago. I knew the price a workin' girl has to pay
for such things, and I said, I'll not let meself think about them. I've hated this place, I've
wanted to get away--but there's only one way to go, to let some man take ye! So I've stayed;
I've kept straight, Joe. I want ye to believe that."

"Of course, Mary!"

"No! It's not been 'of course'! It means ye have to fight with temptations. It's many a time
I've looked at Jeff Cotton, and thought about the things I need! And I've done without! But
now comes the thing a woman wants more than all the other things in the world!"

She paused, but only for a moment. "They tell ye to love a man of your own class. Me old mother
said that to me, before she died. But suppose ye didn't happen to? Suppose ye'd stopped and
thought what it meant, havin' one baby after another, till ye're worn out and drop--like me
old mother did? Suppose ye knew good manners when ye see them--ye knew interestin' talk when
ye heard it!" She clasped her hands suddenly before her, exclaiming, "Ah, 'tis something different
ye are, Joe--so different from anything around here! The way ye talk, the way ye move, the
gay look in your eyes! No miner ever had that happy look, Joe; me heart stops beatin' almost
when ye look at me!" She stopped with a sharp catching of her breath, and he saw that she was
struggling for self-control. After a moment she exclaimed, defiantly: "But they'd tell ye,
be careful, ye daren't love that kind of man; ye'd only have your heart broken!"

There was silence. For this problem the amateur sociologist had no solution at hand--whether
for the abstract question, or for its concrete application!

SECTION 31.

Mary forced herself to go on. "This is how I've worked it out, Joe! I said to meself, 'Ye love
this man; and it's his love ye want--nothin' else! If he's got a place in the world, ye'd only
hold him back--and ye'd not want to do that. Ye don't want his name, or his friends, or any
of those things--ye want him!' Have ye ever heard of such a thing as that?"

Her cheeks were flaming, but she continued to meet his gaze. "Yes, I've heard of it," he answered,
in a low voice.

"What would ye say to it? Is it honest? The Reverend Spragg would say 'twas the devil, no doubt;
Father O'Gorman, down in Pedro, would call it mortal sin; and maybe they know--but I don't!
I only know I can't stand it any more!"

Tears sprang to her eyes, and she cried out suddenly, "Oh, take me away from here! Take me
away and give me a chance, Joe! I'll ask nothing, I'll never stand in your way; I'll work for
ye, I'll cook and wash and do everything for ye, I'll wear my fingers to the bone! Or I'll
go out and work at some job, and earn my share. And I'll make ye this promise--if ever ye get
tired and want to leave me, ye'll not hear a word of complaint!"

She made no conscious appeal to his senses; she sat gazing at him honestly through her tears,
and that made it all the harder to answer her.

What could he say? He felt the old dangerous impulse--to take the girl in his arms and comfort
her. When finally he spoke it was with an effort to keep his voice calm. "I'd say yes, Mary,
if I thought it would work."

"It would work! It would, Joe! Ye can quit when ye want to. I mean it!"

"There's no woman lives who can be happy on such terms, Mary. She wants her man, and she wants
him to herself, and she wants him always; she's only deluding herself if she believes anything
else. You're over-wrought now, what you've seen in the last few days has made you wild--"

"No!" she exclaimed. "'Tis not only that! I been thinkin' about it for weeks."

"I know. You've been thinking, but you wouldn't have spoken if it hadn't been for this horror."
He paused for a moment, to renew his own self-possession. "It won't do, Mary," he declared.
"I've seen it tried more than once, and I'm not so old either. My own brother tried it once,
and ruined himself."

"Ah, ye're afraid to trust me, Joe!"

"No, it's not that; what I mean is--he ruined his own heart, he made himself selfish. He took
everything, and gave nothing. He's much older than I, so I've had a chance to see its effect
on him. He's cold, he has no faith, even in his own nature; when you talk to him about making
the world better he tells you you're a fool."

"It's another way of bein' afraid of me," she insisted. "Afraid you'd ought to marry me!"

"But, Mary--there's the other girl. I really love her, and I'm promised to her. What can I do?"

"'Tis that I've never believed you loved her," she said, in a whisper. Her eyes fell and she
began picking nervously again at the faded blue dress, which was smutted and grease-stained,
perhaps from her recent effort with Mrs. Zamboni's brood. Several times Hal thought she was
going to speak, but she shut her lips tightly again; he watched her, his heart aching.

When finally she spoke, it was still in a whisper, and there was a note of humility he had
never heard from her before. "Ye'll not be wantin' to speak to me, Joe, after what I've said."

"Oh, Mary!" he exclaimed, and caught her hand, "don't say I've made you more unhappy! I want
to help you! Won't you let me be your friend--your real, true friend? Let me help you to get
out of this trap; you'll have a chance to look about, you'll find a way to be happy--the whole
world will seem different to you then, and you'll laugh at the idea that you ever wanted me!"

SECTION 32.

The two of them went back to the pit-mouth. It had been two days since the disaster, and still
the fan had not been started, and there was no sign of its being started. The hysteria of the
women was growing, and there was a tension in the crowds. Jeff Cotton had brought in a force
of men to assist him in keeping order. They had built a fence of barbed wire about the pit-mouth
and its approaches, and behind this wire they walked--hard-looking citizens with policemen's
"billies," and the bulge of revolvers plainly visible on their hips.

During this long period of waiting, Hal had talks with members of his check-weighman group.
They told what had happened while he was in jail, and this reminded him of something which
had been driven from his mind by the explosion. Poor old John Edstrom was down in Pedro, perhaps
in dire need. Hal went to the old Swede's cabin that night, climbed through a window, and dug
up the buried money. There were five five-dollar bills, and he put them in an envelope, addressed
them in care of General Delivery, Pedro, and had Mary Burke take them to the post office and
register them.

