But when a family of fashion, for generations, have not only never thought of paying a tailor,
but have considered taking up bills, which the too confiding snip has discounted for them,
as decidedly smacking of the punctilious vulgarity of the tradesman; thus drawing down upon
themselves the vengeance of that most intolerant sect of Protestants, the Notaries Public;
when a young man of fashion, taught from earliest infancy to regard tailors as a Chancellor
of the Exchequer regards the people at large, that is to say, as a class of animals created
to be victimized in every possible way, it is astonishing what a subtle grace and indescribable
expression are conveyed to coats which are sent home to you for nothing, or, what amounts to
exactly the same thing, which you have not the most remote idea of paying for, in secula seculorum.
So far from caring whether it rains or snows, or whether the dust flies, when you have got
on one of these eleemosynary coats, you are rather pleased than otherwise. There is a luxury
in the idea that on the morrow you will start fresh game, and victimize your tailor for another.
The innate cruelty of the human animal is gratified, and the idea of a tailor's suffering is
never conceived by a customer without involuntary cachinnation. Not only is he denied the attribute
of integral manhood--which even a man-milliner by courtesy enjoys--but that principle which
induces a few men of enthusiastic temperament to pay debts, is always held a fault when applied
to the bills of tailors. And, what is a curious and instructive fact in the natural history
of London fashionable tailors, and altogether unnoticed by the Rev. Leonard Jenyns, in his
Manual of British Vertebrate Animals, if you go to one of these gentlemen, requesting him to
"execute," and professing your readiness to pay his bill on demand or delivery, he will be
sure to give your order to the most scurvy botch in his establishment, put in the worst materials,
and treat you altogether as a person utterly unacquainted with the usages of polite society.
But if, on the contrary, you are recommended to him by Lord Fly-by-night, of Denman Priory--if
you give a thundering order, and, instead of offering to pay for it, pull out a parcel of bill-stamps,
and promise fifty per cent for a few hundreds down, you will be surprised to observe what delight
will express itself in the radiant countenance of your victim: visions of cent per cent, ghosts
of post-obits, dreams of bonds with penalties, and all those various shapes in which security
delights to involve the extravagant, rise flatteringly before the inward eye of the man of
shreds and patches. By these transactions with the great, he becomes more and more a man, less
and less a tailor; instead of cutting patterns and taking measures, he flings the tailoring
to his foreman, becoming first Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer to peers
of the realm.

With a few more of the less important distinctive peculiarities of the gentleman of fashion,
we may dismiss this portion of our subject. A gentleman never affects military air or costume
if he is not a military man, and even then avoids professional rigidity and swagger as much
as possible; he never sports spurs or a riding-whip, except when he is upon horseback, contrary
to the rule observed by his antagonist the snob, who always sports spurs and riding-whip, but
who never mounts higher than a threepenny stride on a Hampstead donkey. Nor does a gentleman
ever wear a moustache, unless he belongs to one of the regiments of hussars, or the household
cavalry, who alone are ordered to display that ornamental exuberance. Foreigners, military
or non-military, are recognized as wearing hair on the upper lip with propriety, as is the
custom of their country. But no gentleman here thinks of such a thing, any more than he would
think of sporting the uniform of the Tenth Hussars.

There is an affectation among the vulgar clever, of wearing the moustache, which they clip
and cut à la Vandyk: this is useful, as affording a ready means of distinguishing between a
man of talent and an ass--the former, trusting to his head, goes clean shaved, and looks like
an Englishman: the latter, whose strength lies altogether in his hair, exhausts the power of
Macassar in endeavouring to make himself as like an ourang-outang as possible.

Another thing must be observed by all who would successfully ape the gentleman: never to smoke
cigars in the street in mid-day. No better sign can you have than this of a fellow reckless
of decency and behaviour: a gentleman smokes, if he smokes at all, where he offends not the
olfactories of the passers-by. Nothing, he is aware, approaches more nearly the most offensive
personal insult, than to compel ladies and gentlemen to inhale, after you, the ejected fragrance
of your penny Cuba or your three-halfpenny mild Havannah.

In the cities of Germany, where the population almost to a man inhale the fumes of tobacco,
street smoking is very properly prohibited; for however agreeable may be the sedative influence
of the Virginian weed when inspired from your own manufactory, nothing assuredly is more disgusting
than inhalation of tobacco smoke at second-hand.

Your undoubted man of fashion, like other animals, has his peculiar habitat: you never see
him promenading in Regent Street between the hours of three and five in the afternoon, nor
by any chance does he venture into the Quadrant: east of Temple Bar he is never seen except
on business, and then, never on foot: if he lounges any where, it is in Bond Street, or about
the clubs of St James's.

OF PRETENDERS TO FASHION.

     "Their conversation was altogether made up of Shakspeare,
     taste, high life and the musical glasses."--Vicar of
     Wakefield.

We will venture to assert, that in the course of these essays on the aristocracies of London
life, we have never attempted to induce any of our readers to believe that there was any cause
for him to regret, whatever condition of life it had pleased Providence to place him in, or
to suppose, for one moment, that reputable men, though in widely different circumstances, are
not equally reputable. We have studiously avoided portraying fashionable life according to
the vulgar notions, whether depreciatory or panegyrical. We have shown that that class is not
to be taken and treated of as an integral quantity, but to be analyzed as a component body,
wherein is much sterling ore and no little dross. We have shown by sufficient examples, that
whatever in our eyes makes the world of fashion really respectable, is solely owing to the
real worth of its respectable members; and on the contrary, whatever contempt we fling upon
the fashionable world, is the result of the misconduct of individuals of that order, prominently
contemptible.

Of the former, the example is of infinite value to society, in refining its tone, and giving
to social life an unembarrassed ease, which, if not true politeness, is its true substitute;
and, of the latter, the mischief done to society is enhanced by the multitude of low people
ready to imitate their vices, inanities, and follies.

Pretenders to fashion, who hang upon the outskirts of fashionable society, and whose lives
are a perpetual but unavailing struggle to jump above their proper position, are horrid nuisances;
and they abound, unfortunately, in London.

In a republic, where practical equality is understood and acted upon, this pretension would
be intolerable; in an aristocratic state of society, with social gradations pointedly defined
and universally recognized, it is merely ridiculous to the lookers-on; to the pretenders, it
is a source of much and deserved misery and isolation.

There are ten thousand varying shades and degrees of this pretension, from the truly fashionable
people who hanker after the exclusives, or seventh heaven of high life, down to the courier
out of place, who, in a pot-house, retails Debrett by heart, and talks of lords, and dukes,
and earls, as of his particular acquaintance, and how and where he met them when on his travels.

The exclusives are a queer set, some of them not by any means people of the best pretensions
to lead the ton. Lady L---- and Lady B---- may be very well as patronesses of Almack's; but
what do you say to Lady J----, a plebeian, and a licensed dealer in money, keeping her shop
by deputy in a lane somewhere behind Cornhill? Almack's, as every body knows who has been there,
or who has talked with any observing habitué of the place, contains a great many queer, spurious
people, smuggled in somehow by indirect influence, when royal command is not the least effectual:
a surprizing number of seedy, poverty-stricken young men, and, in an inverse ratio, women who
have any thing more than the clothes they wear: yet, by mere dint of difficulty, by the simple
circumstance of making admission to this assembly a matter of closeting, canvassing, balloting,
black-balling, and so forth, people of much better fashion than many of the exclusives make
it a matter of life and death to have their admission secured. Admission to Almack's is to
a young débutante of fashion as great an object as a seat at the Privy Council Board to a flourishing
politician: your ton is stamped by it, you are of the exclusive set, and, by virtue of belonging
to that set, every other is open to you as a matter of course, when you choose to condescend
to visit it. The room in which Almack's balls are held we need not describe, because it has
been often described before, and because the doorkeeper, any day you choose to go to Duke Street,
St James's, will be too happy to show it you for sixpence; but we will give you in his own
words, all the information we could contrive to get from a man of the highest fashion, who
is a subscriber.

"Why, I really don't know," said he, "that I have any thing to tell you about Almack's, except
that all that the novel-writers say about it is ridiculous nonsense: the lights are good, the
refreshments not so good, the music excellent; the women dress well, dance a good deal, and
talk but little. There is a good deal of envy, jealousy, and criticism of faces, figures, fortunes,
and pretensions: one, or at most two, of the balls in a season are pleasant; the others slow
and very dull. The point of the thing seems to be, that people of rank choose to like it because
it stamps a set, and low people talk about it because they cannot by any possibility know any
thing about it."

Such is Almack's, of which volumes have been spun, of most effete and lamentable trash, to
gratify the morbid appetites of the pretenders to fashion.

We must not omit to inform our rural readers, that no conventional rank gives any one in London
a patent of privilege in truly fashionable society. An old baronet shall be exclusive, when
a young peer shall have no fashionable society at all: a lord is by no means necessarily a
man in what the fashionable sets call good society: we have many lords who are not men of fashion,
and many men of fashion who are not lords.

Professional peers, whether legal, naval, or military, bishops, judges, and all that class
of men who attain by talents, interest, and good fortune, or all, or any of these, a lofty
social position, have no more to do with the exclusive or merely fashionable sets than you
or I. A man may be a barrister in full practice to-day, an attorney-general to-morrow, a chief-justice
the day after with a peerage: yet his wife and daughter visit the same people, and are visited
by the same people, that associated with them before. If men of fashion know them, it is because
they have business to transact or favours to seek for, or because it is part of their system
to keep up a qualified intimacy with all whom they think proper to lift to their own level:
but this intimacy is only extended by the man of birth to the man of talent. His family do
not become people of fashion until the third or fourth generation: he remains the man of business,
the useful, working, practical, brains-carrying man that he was; and his family, if they are
wise, seek not to become the familiars of the old aristocracy, and if they are foolish, become
the most unfortunate pretenders to fashion. They are too near to be pleasant; and the gulf
which people of hereditary fashion place between is impassable, even though they flounder up
to their necks in servile mud.

It is the same with baronets, M.P.'s, and all that sort of people. These handles to men's names
go down very well in the country, where it is imagined that a baronet or an M.P. is, ex officio,
a man of consequence, and that, rank being equal, consequence is also equal. In London, on
the contrary, people laugh at the idea of a man pluming himself upon such distinctions without
a difference: in town we have baronets of all sorts--the "Heathcotes, and such large-acred
men," Sir Watkyn, and the territorial baronetage: then we have the Hanmers, and others of undoubted
fashion, to which their patent is the weakest of their claims: then we have the military, naval,
and medical baronet: descending, through infinite gradations, we come down to the tallow-chandling,
the gin-spinning, the banking, the pastry-cooking baronetage.

What is there, what can there be, in common with these widely severed classes, save that they
equally enjoy Sir at the head and Bart. at the tail of their sponsorial and patronymic appellations?
Do you think the landed Bart. knows any more of the medical Bart. than that, when he sends
for the other to attend his wife, he calls him generally "doctor," and seldom Sir James: or
that the military Bart. does not much like the naval Bart.? and do not all these incongruous
Barts. shudder at the bare idea of been seen on the same side of the street with a gin-spinning,
Patent-British-Genuine-Foreign-Cognac Brandy-making Bart.? and do not each and every one of
these Barts. from head to tail, even including the last-mentioned, look down with immeasurable
disdain upon the poor Nova Scotia baronets, who move heaven and earth to get permission to
wear a string round their necks, and a badge like the learned fraternity of cabmen?

Then as to the magic capitals M.P., which provincial people look upon as embodying in the wearer
the concentrated essence of wisdom, eloquence, personal distinction, and social eminence. Who,
in a country town, on a market day, has not seen tradesmen cocking their eye, apprentices glowering
through the shop front, and ladies subdolously peeping behind the window-shutter to catch a
glimpse of the "member for our town," and, having seen him, think they are rather happier then
they were before? The greatest fun in the world is to go to a cul-de-sac off a dirty lane near
Palace Yard, called Manchester Buildings, a sort of senatorial pigeon-house, where the meaner
fry of houseless M.P.'s live, each in his one pair, two pair, three pair, as the case may be,
and give a postman's knock at every door in rapid succession. In a twinkling, the "collective
wisdom" of Manchester Buildings and the Midland Counties poke out their heads. Cobden appears
on the balcony; Muntz glares out of a second floor, like a live bear in a barber's window;
Wallace of Greenock comes to the door in a red nightcap; and a long "tail" of the other immortals
of a session. You may enjoy the scene as much as you please; but when you hear one or two of
the young Irish patriotic "mimbers" floundering from the attics, the wisest course you can
take will be incontinently to "mizzle." These men, however, have one redeeming quality--that
they live in Manchester Buildings, and don't care who knows it; they are out of fashion, and
don't care who are in; they are minding their business, and not hanging at the skirts of people
ever ready and willing to kick them off.

Then there are the "dandy" M.P.'s, who ride hack-horses, associate with fashionable actresses,
and hang about the clubs. Then there is the chance or accidental M.P., who has been elected
he hardly knows how or when, and wonders to find himself in Parliament. Then there is the desperate,
adventuring, ear-wigging M.P., whose hope of political existence, and whose very livelihood,
depend upon getting or continuing in place. Then there is the legal M.P., with one eye fixed
on the Queen's, the other squinting at the Treasury Bench. Then there is the lounging M.P.,
who is usually the scion of a noble family, and who comes now and then into the House, to stare
vacantly about, and go out again. Then there is the military M.P., who finds the House an agreeable
lounge, and does not care to join his regiment on foreign service. Then there is the bustling
M.P. of business, the M.P. of business without bustle, and the independent country gentleman
M.P., who wants nothing for himself or any body else, and who does not care a turnip-top for
the whole lot of them.

The aggregate distinction, as a member of Parliament, is totally sunk in London. It is the
man, and not the two letters after his name, that any body whose regard is worth the having
in the least regard. There are M.P.s never seen beyond the exclusive set, except on a committee
of the House, and then they know and speak to nobody save one of themselves. There are other
M.P.s that you will find in no society except Tom Spring's or Owen Swift's, at the Horse-shoe
in Litchborne Street.

These observations upon baronets and M.P.s may be extended upwards to the peerage, and downwards
to the professional, commercial, and all other the better classes. Every man hangs, like a
herring, by his own tail; and every class would be distinct and separate, but that the pretenders
to fashion, like some equivocal animals in the chain of animated nature, connect these different
classes by copying pertinaciously the manners, and studying to adopt the tastes and habits
of the class immediately above them.

Of pretenders to fashion, perhaps the most successful in their imitative art are the

SHEENIES.--By this term, as used by men of undoubted ton with reference to the class we are
about to consider, you are to understand runagate Jews rolling in riches, who profess to love
roast pork above all things, who always eat their turkey with sausages, and who have cut their
religion for the sake of dangling at the heels of fashionable Christians. These people are
"swelling" upon the profits of the last generation in St Mary Axe or Petticoat Lane. The founders
of their families have been loan-manufacturers, crimps, receivers of stolen goods, wholesale
nigger-dealers, clippers and sweaters, rag-merchants, and the like, and conscientious Israelites;
but their children, not having fortitude to abide by their condition, nor right principle to
adhere to their sect, come to the west end of the town, and, by right of their money, make
unremitting assaults upon the loose fish of fashionable society, who laugh at, and heartily
despise them, while they are as ashes in the mouths of the respectable members of the persuasion
to which they originally belonged.

HEAVY SWELLS are another very important class of pretenders to fashion, and are divided into
civil and military. Professional men, we say it to their honour, seldom affect the heavy swell,
because the feeblest glimmerings of that rationality of thinking which results from among the
lowest education, preserves them from the folly of the attempt, and, in preserving from folly,
saves them from the self-reproaching misery that attends it. Men of education or of common
sense, look upon pretension to birth, rank, or any thing else to which they have no legitimate
claim, as little more than moral forgery; it is with them an uttering base coin upon false
pretences. It is generally the wives and families of professional men who are afflicted with
pretension to fashion, of which we shall give abundant examples when we come to treat of gentility-mongers.
But the heavy swell, who is of all classes, from the son and heir of an opulent blacking-maker
down to the lieutenant of a marching regiment on half-pay, is utterly destitute of brains,
deplorably illiterate, and therefore incapable, by nature and bringing-up, of respecting himself
by a modest contented demeanour. He is never so unhappy as when he appears the thing he is--never
so completely in his element as when acting the thing he is not, nor can ever be. He spends
his life in jumping, like a cat, at shadows on the wall. He has day and night dreams of people,
who have not the least idea that such a man is in existence, and he comes in time, by mere
dint of thinking of nobody else, to think that he is one of them. He acquaints himself with
the titles of lords, as other men do those of books, and then boasts largely of the extent
of his acquaintance.

Let us suppose that he is an officer of a hard-fighting, foreign-service, neglected infantry
regiment. This, which to a soldier would be an honest pride, is the shame of the Heavy Military
Swell. His chief business in life, next to knowing the names and faces of lords, is concealing
from you the corps to which he has the dishonour, he thinks, to belong. He talks mightily of
the service, of hussars and light dragoons; but when he knows that you know better, when you
poke him hard about the young or old buffs, or the dirty half-hundred, he whispers in your
ear that "my fellows," as he calls them, are very "fast," and that they are "all known in town,
very well known indeed"--a piece of information you will construe in the case of the heavy
swell to mean, better known than trusted.

When he is on full pay, the heavy swell is known to the three old women and five desperate
daughters who compose good society in country quarters. He affects a patronizing air at small
tea-parties, and is wonderfully run after by wretched un-idea'd girls, that is, by ten girls
in twelve; he is eternally striving to get upon the "staff," or anyhow to shirk his regimental
duty; he is a whelp towards the men under his command, and has a grand idea of spurs, steel
scabbards, and flogging; to his superiors he is a spaniel, to his brother officers an intolerable
ass; he makes the mess-room a perfect hell with his vanity, puppyism, and senseless bibble-babble.

On leave, or half-pay, he "mounts mustaches," to help the hussar and light-dragoon idea, or
to delude the ignorant into a belief that he may possibly belong to the household cavalry.
He hangs about doors of military clubs, with a whip in his hand; talks very loud at the "Tiger"
or the "Rag and famish," and never has done shouting to the waiter to bring him a "Peerage;"
carries the "Red Book" and "Book of Heraldry" in his pocket; sees whence people come, and where
they go, and makes them out somehow; in short, he is regarded with a thrill of horror by people
of fashion, fast or slow, civil or military.

The Civil Heavy Swell affects fashionable curricles, and enjoys all the consideration a pair
of good horses can give. He rides a blood bay in Rotten Row, but rides badly, and is detected
by galloping, or some other solecism; his dress and liveries are always overdone, the money
shows on every thing about him. He has familiar abbreviations for the names of all the fast
men about town; calls this Lord "Jimmy," 'tother Chess, a third Dolly, and thinks he knows
them; keeps an expensive mistress, because "Jimmy" and Chess are supposed to do the same, and
when he is out of the way, his mistress has some of the fast fellows to supper, at the heavy
swell's expense. He settles the point whether claret is to be drank from a jug or black bottle,
and retails the merits of a plateau or epergne he saw, when last he dined with a "fellow" in
Belgrave Square.

The Foreigneering Heavy Swell has much more spirit, talent, and manner, than the home-grown
article; but he is poor in a like ratio, and is therefore obliged to feather his nest by denuding
the pigeon tribe of their metallic plumage. He is familiarly known to all the fast fellows,
who cut him, however, as soon as they marry, but is not accounted good ton by heads of families.
He is liked at the Hells and Clubs, where he has a knack of distinguishing himself without
presumption or affectation. He is a dresser by right divine, and dresses ridiculously. The
fashionable fellows affect loudly to applaud his taste, and laugh to see the vulgar imitate
the foreigneering swell. He is the idol of equivocal women, and condescends to patronize unpresentable
gentility-mongers. He is not unhappy at heart, like the indigenous heavy swell, but enjoys
his intimacy with the fast fellows, and uses it.

There is an infallible test we should advise you to apply, whenever you are bored to desperation
by any of these heavy swells. When he talks of "my friend, the Duke of Bayswater," ask him,
in a quiet tone, where he last met the Duchess. If he says Hyde-Park (meaning the Earl of)
is an honest good fellow, enquire whether he prefers Lady Mary or Lady Seraphina Serpentine.
This drops him like a shot--he can't get over it.

It is a rule in good society that you know the set only when you know the women of that set;
however you may work your way among the men, whatever you may do at the Hells and Clubs, goes
for nothing--the women stamp you counterfeit or current, and--

     "Not to know them, argues yourself unknown."

       *       *       *       *       *

EYRE'S CABUL.

     The Military Operations at Cabul, which ended in the Retreat
     and Destruction of the British Army, January 1842; with a
     Journal of Imprisonment in Affghanistan. By Lieutenant Vincent
     Eyre, Bengal Artillery, late Deputy-Commissary of Ordnance at
     Cabul. London: John Murray.

This is the first connected account that has appeared of the military disasters that befell
the British army at Cabul--by far the most signal reverse our arms have ever sustained in Asia.
The narrative is full of a deep and painful interest, which becomes more and more intense as
we approach the closing catastrophe. The simple detail of the daily occurrences stirs up our
strongest feelings of indignation, pity; scorn, admiration, horror, and grief. The tale is
told without art, or any attempt at artificial ornament, and in a spirit of manly and gentlemanlike
forbearance from angry comment or invective, that is highly creditable to the author, and gives
us a very favourable opinion both of his head and of his heart.

That a British army of nearly six thousand fighting men--occupying a position chosen and fortified
by our own officers, and having possession, within two miles of this fortified cantonment,
of a strong citadel commanding the greater part of the town of Cabul, a small portion only
of whose population rose against us at the commencement of the revolt--should not only have
made no vigorous effort to crush the insurrection; but that it should ultimately have been
driven by an undisciplined Asiatic mob, destitute of artillery, and which never appears to
have collected in one place above 10,000 men, to seek safety in a humiliating capitulation,
by which it surrendered the greater part of its artillery, military stores, and treasure, and
undertook to evacuate the whole country on condition of receiving a safe conduct from the rebel
chiefs, on whose faith they placed, and could place, no reliance; and finally, that, of about
4500 armed soldiers and twelve thousand camp-followers, many of whom were also armed, who set
out from Cabul, only one man, and he wounded, should have arrived at Jellalabad; is an amount
of misfortune so far exceeding every rational anticipation of evil, that we should have been
entitled to assume that these unparalleled military disasters arose from a series of unparalleled
errors, even if we had not had, as we now have, the authority of Lord Ellenborough for asserting
the fact.

But every nation, and more particularly the British nation, is little inclined to pardon the
men under whose command any portion of its army or of its navy may have been beaten. Great
Britain, reposing entire confidence in the courage of her men, and little accustomed to see
them overthrown, is keenly jealous of the reputation of her forces; and, as she is ever prompt
to reward military excellence and success, she heaps unmeasured obloquy on those who may have
subjected her to the degradation of defeat. When our forces have encountered a reverse, or
even when the success has not been commensurate with the hopes that had been indulged; the
public mind has ever been prone to condemn the commanders; and wherever there has been reason
to believe that errors have been committed which have led to disaster, there has been little
disposition to make any allowances for the circumstances of the case, or for the fallibility
of man; but, on the contrary, the nation has too often evinced a fierce desire to punish the
leaders for the mortification the country has been made to endure.

This feeling may tend to elevate the standard of military character, but it must at the same
time preclude the probability of calm or impartial examination, so far as the great body of
the nation is concerned; and it is therefore the more obviously incumbent on those who, from
a more intimate knowledge of the facts, or from habits of more deliberate investigation, are
not carried away by the tide of popular indignation and invective, to weigh the circumstances
with conscientious caution, and to await the result of judicial enquiry before they venture
to apportion the blame or even to estimate its amount.

     "The following notes," says Lieutenant Eyre in his preface,
     "were penned to relieve the monotony of an Affghan prison,
     while yet the events which they record continued fresh in my
     memory. I now give them publicity, in the belief that the
     information which they contain on the dreadful scenes lately
     enacted in Affghanistan, though clothed in a homely garb, will
     scarcely fail to be acceptable to many of my countrymen, both
     in India and England, who may be ignorant of the chief
     particulars. The time, from the 2d November 1841, on which day
     the sudden popular outbreak at Cabul took place, to the 13th
     January 1842, which witnessed the annihilation of the last
     small remnant of our unhappy force at Gundamuk, was one
     continued tragedy. The massacre of Sir Alexander Burnes and his
     associates,--the loss of our commissariat fort--the defeat of
     our troops under Brigadier Shelton at Beymaroo--the treacherous
     assassination of Sir William Macnaghten, our envoy and
     minister--and lastly, the disastrous retreat and utter
     destruction of a force consisting of 5000 fighting men and
     upwards of 12,000 camp-followers,--are events which will
     assuredly rouse the British Lion from his repose, and excite an
     indignant spirit of enquiry in every breast. Men will not be
     satisfied, in this case, with a bare statement of the facts,
     but they will doubtless require to be made acquainted with the
     causes which brought about such awful effects. We have lost six
     entire regiments of infantry, three companies of sappers, a
     troop of European horse-artillery, half the mountain-train
     battery, nearly a whole regiment of regular cavalry, and four
     squadrons of irregular horse, besides a well-stocked magazine,
     which alone, taking into consideration the cost of transport
     up to Cabul, may be estimated at nearly a million sterling.
     From first to last, not less than 104 British officers have
     fallen: their names will be found in the Appendix. I glance but
     slightly at the political events of this period, not having
     been one of the initiated; and I do not pretend to enter into
     minute particulars with regard to even our military
     transactions, more especially those not immediately connected
     with the sad catastrophe which it has been my ill fortune to
     witness, and whereof I now endeavour to portray the leading
     features. In these notes I have been careful to state only what
     I know to be undeniable facts. I have set down nothing on mere
     hearsay evidence, nor any thing which cannot be attested by
     living witnesses or by existing documentary evidence. In
     treating of matters which occurred under my personal
     observation, it has been difficult to avoid altogether the
     occasional expression of my own individual opinion: but I hope
     it will be found that I have made no observations bearing hard
     on men or measures, that are either uncalled for, or will not
     stand the test of future investigation."

After the surrender of Dost Mahomed Khan, there remained in Affghanistan no chief who possessed
a dominant power or influence that made him formidable to the government of Shah Shoojah, or
to his English allies; and the kingdom of Cabul seemed to be gradually, though slowly, subsiding
into comparative tranquillity. In the summer of the year 1841, the authority of the sovereign
appears to have been acknowledged in almost every part of his dominions. A partial revolt of
the Giljyes was speedily suppressed by our troops. The Kohistan, or more correctly, Koohdaman
of Cabul, a mountainous tract, inhabited by a warlike people, over whom the authority of the
governments of the country had long been imperfect and precarious, had submitted, or had ceased
to resist. A detachment from the British force at Kandahar, after defeating Akter Khan, who
had been instigated by the Vezeer of Herat to rebel, swept the country of Zemindawer, drove
Akter Khan a fugitive to Herat, received the submission of all the chiefs in that part of the
kingdom, and secured the persons of such as it was not thought prudent to leave at large in
those districts.

The Shah's authority was not believed to be so firmly established, that both Sir William Macnaghten,
the British envoy at Cabul, who had recently been appointed governor of Bombay, and Sir Alexander
Burnes, on whom the duties of the envoy would have devolved on Sir W. Macnaghten's departure,
thought that the time had arrived when the amount of the British force in Affghanistan, which
was so heavy a charge upon the revenues of India, might with safety be reduced, and General
Sale's brigade was ordered to hold itself in readiness to march to Jellalabad, on its route
to India.

Even at this time, however, Major Pottinger, the political agent in Kohistan, including, we
presume, the Koohdaman, thought the force at his disposal too small to maintain the tranquillity
of the district; and the chiefs of the valley of Nijrow, or Nijrab, a valley of Kohistan Proper,
had not only refused to submit, but had harboured the restless and disaffected who had made
themselves obnoxious to the Shah's government. But although Major Pottinger had no confidence
in the good feelings of the people of his own district to the government, and even seems to
have anticipated insurrection, no movement of that description had yet taken place.

Early in September, however, Captain Hay, who was with a small force in the Zoormut valley,
situated nearly west from Ghuznee and south from Cabul, having been induced by the representations
of Moollah Momin--the collector of the revenues, who was a Barikzye, and a near relation of
one of the leaders of the insurrection, in which he afterwards himself took an active part--to
move against a fort in which the murderers of Colonel Herring were said to have taken shelter,
the inhabitants resisted his demands, and fired upon the troops. His force was found insufficient
to reduce it, and he was obliged to retire; a stronger force was therefore sent, on the approach
of which the people fled to the hills, and the forts they had evacuated were blown up. This
occurrence was not calculated seriously to disturb the confident hopes that were entertained
of the permanent tranquillity of the country; but before the force employed upon that expedition
had returned to Cabul, a formidable insurrection had broken out in another quarter.

     "Early in October," says Lieutenant Eyre, "three Giljye chiefs
     of note suddenly quitted Cabul, after plundering a rich cafila
     at Tezeen, and took up a strong position in the difficult
     defile of Khoord-Cabul, about ten miles from the capital, thus
     blocking up the pass, and cutting off our communication with
     Hindostan. Intelligence had not very long previously been
     received that Mahomed Akber Khan, second son of the ex-ruler
     Dost Mahomed Khan, had arrived at Bameean from Khooloom, for
     the supposed purpose of carrying on intrigues against the
     Government. It is remarkable that he is nearly connected by
     marriage with Mahomed Shah Khan and Dost Mahomed Khan, also
     Giljyes, who almost immediately joined the above-mentioned
     chiefs. Mahomed Akber had, since the deposition of his father,
     never ceased to foster feelings of intense hatred towards the
     English nation; and, though often urged by the fallen ruler to
     deliver himself up, had resolutely preferred the life of a
     houseless exile to one of mean dependence on the bounty of his
     enemies. It seems, therefore, in the highest degree probable
     that this hostile movement on the part of the Eastern Giljyes
     was the result of his influence over them, combined with other
     causes which will be hereafter mentioned."

The other causes here alluded to, appear to be "the deep offence given to the Giljyes by the
ill-advised reduction of their annual stipends, a measure which had been forced upon Sir William
Macnaghten by Lord Auckland. This they considered, and with some show of justice, as a breach
of faith on the part of our Government."

We presume that it is not Mr Eyre's intention to assert that this particular measure was ordered
by Lord Auckland, but merely that the rigid economy enforced by his lordship, led the Envoy
to have recourse to this measure as one of the means by which the general expenditure might
be diminished.

Formidable as this revolt of the Giljyes was found to be, we are led to suspect that both Sir
W. Macnaghten and Sir A. Burnes were misled, probably by the Shah's government, very greatly
to underrate its importance and its danger. The force under Colonel Monteath,[16] which in
the first instance was sent to suppress it, was so small that it was not only unable to penetrate
into the country it was intended to overawe or to subdue, but it was immediately attacked in
its camp, within ten miles of Cabul, and lost thirty-five sepoys killed and wounded.

     [16] 35th Reg. N.I.; 100 sappers; 1 squadron 5th Cav.; 2 guns.

Two days afterwards, the 11th October, General Sale marched from Cabul with H.M.'s 13th light
infantry, to join Colonel Monteath's camp at Bootkhak; and the following morning the whole
proceeded to force the pass of Khoord-Cabul, which was effected with some loss. The 13th returned
through the pass to Bootkhak, suffering from the fire of parties which still lurked among the
rocks. The remainder of the brigade encamped at Khoord-Cabul, at the further extremity of the
defile. In this divided position the brigade remained for some days, and both camps had to
sustain night attacks from the Affghans--"that on the 35th native infantry being peculiarly
disastrous, from the treachery of the Affghan horse, who admitted the enemy within their lines,
by which our troops were exposed to a fire from the least suspected quarter. Many of our gallant
sepoys, and Lieutenant Jenkins, thus met their death."

On the 20th October, General Sale, having been reinforced, marched to Khoord-Cabul; "and about
the 22d, the whole force there assembled, with Captain Macgregor, political agent, marched
to Tezeen, encountering much determined opposition on the road."

"By this time it was too evident that the whole of the Eastern Giljyes had risen in one common
league against us." The treacherous proceedings of their chief or viceroy, Humza Khan, which
had for some time been suspected, were now discovered, and he was arrested by order of Shah
Shoojah.

     "It must be remarked," says Lieutenant Eyre, "that for some
     time previous to these overt acts of rebellion, the always
     strong and ill-repressed personal dislike of the Affghans
     towards Europeans, had been manifested in a more than usually
     open manner in and about Cabul. Officers had been insulted and
     attempts made to assassinate them. Two Europeans had been
     murdered, as also several camp-followers; but these and other
     signs of the approaching storm had unfortunately been passed
     over as mere ebullitions of private angry feeling. This
     incredulity and apathy is the more to be lamented, as it was
     pretty well known that on the occasion of the shub-khoon, or
     first night attack on the 35th native infantry at Bootkhak, a
     large portion of our assailants consisted of the armed
     retainers of the different men of consequence in Cabul itself,
     large parties of whom had been seen proceeding from the city to
     the scene of action on the evening of the attack, and
     afterwards returning. Although these men had to pass either
     through the heart or round the skirts of our camp at Seeah
     Sung, it was not deemed expedient even to question them, far
     less to detain them.

     "On the 26th October, General Sale started in the direction of
     Gundamuk, Captain Macgregor having half-frightened,
     half-cajoled the refractory Giljye chiefs into what proved to
     have been a most hollow truce."

On the same day, the 37th native infantry, three companies of the Shah's sappers under Captain
Walsh, and three guns of the mountain train under Lieutenant Green, retraced their steps towards
Cabul, where the sappers, pushing on, arrived unopposed; but the rest of the detachment was
attacked on the 2d November--on the afternoon of which day, Major Griffiths, who commanded
it, received orders to force his way to Cabul, where the insurrection had that morning broken
out. His march through the pass, and from Bootkhak to Cabul, was one continued conflict; but
the gallantry of his troops, and the excellence of his own dispositions, enabled him to carry
the whole of his wounded and baggage safe to the cantonments at Cabul, where he arrived about
three o'clock on the morning of the 3d November, followed almost to the gates by about 3000
Giljyes.

The causes of the insurrection in the capital are not yet fully ascertained, or, if ascertained,
they have not been made public. Lieutenant Eyre does not attempt to account for it; but he
gives us the following memorandum of Sir W. Macnaghten's, found, we presume, amongst his papers
after his death:--

     "The immediate cause of the outbreak in the capital was a
     seditious letter addressed by Abdoollah Khan to several chiefs
     of influence at Cabul, stating that it was the design of the
     Envoy to seize and send them all to London! The principal
     rebels met on the previous night, and, relying on the
     inflammable feelings of the people of Cabul, they pretended
     that the King had issued an order to put all infidels to death;
     having previously forged an order from him for our destruction,
     by the common process of washing out the contents of a genuine
     paper, with the exception of the seal, and substituting their
     own wicked inventions."

But this invention, though it was probably one of the means employed by the conspirators to
increase the number of their associates, can hardly be admitted to account for the insurrection.
The arrival of Akber Khan at Bameean, the revolt of the Giljyes, the previous flight of their
chiefs from Cabul, and the almost simultaneous attack of our posts in the Koohdaman, (called
by Lieutenant Eyre, Kohistan,) on the 3d November--the attack of a party conducting prisoners
from Candahar to Ghuznee--the immediate interruption of every line of communication with Cabul--and
the selection of the season of the year the most favourable to the success of the insurrection,
with many other less important circumstances, combine to force upon us the opinion, that the
intention to attack the Cabul force, so soon as it should have become isolated by the approach
of winter, had been entertained, and the plan of operations concerted, for some considerable
time before the insurrection broke out. That many who wished for its success may have been
slow to commit themselves, is to be presumed, and that vigorous measures might, if resorted
to on the first day, have suppressed the revolt, is probable; but it can hardly be doubted
that we must look far deeper, and further back, for the causes which united the Affghan nation
against us.

The will of their chiefs and spiritual leaders--fanatical zeal, and hatred of the domination
of a race whom they regarded as infidels--may have been sufficient to incite the lower orders
to any acts of violence, or even to the persevering efforts they made to extirpate the English.
In their eyes the contest would assume the character of a religious war--of a crusade; and
every man who took up arms in that cause, would go to battle with the conviction that, if he
should be slain, his soul would go at once to paradise, and that, if he slew an enemy of the
faith, he thereby also secured to himself eternal happiness. But the chiefs are not so full
of faith; and although we would not altogether exclude religious antipathy as an incentive,
we may safely assume that something more immediately affecting their temporal and personal
concerns must with them, or at least with the large majority, have been the true motives of
the conspiracy--of their desire to expel the English from their country. Nor is it difficult
to conceive what some of these motives may have been. The former sovereigns of Affghanistan,
even the most firmly-established and the most vigorous, had no other means of enforcing their
commands, than by employing the forces of one part of the nation to make their authority respected
in another; but men who were jealous of their own independence as chiefs, were not likely to
aid the sovereign in any attempt to destroy the substantial power, the importance, or the independence
of their class; and although a refractory chief might occasionally, by the aid of his feudal
enemies, be taken or destroyed, and his property plundered, his place was filled by a relation,
and the order remained unbroken. The Affghan chiefs had thus enjoyed, under their native governments,
an amount of independence which was incompatible with the system we introduced--supported as
that system was by our military means. These men must have seen that their own power and importance,
and even their security against the caprices of their sovereign, could not long be preserved--that
they were about to be subjected as well as governed--to be deprived of all power to resist
the oppressions of their own government, because its will was enforced by an army which had
no sympathy with the nation, and which was therefore ready to use its formidable strength to
compel unqualified submission to the sovereign's commands.

The British army may not have been employed to enforce any unjust command--its movements may
have been less, far less, injurious to the countries through which it passed than those of
an Affghan army would have been, and its power in the moment of success may have been far less
abused; but still it gave a strength to the arm of the sovereign, which was incompatible with
the maintenance of the pre-existing civil and social institutions or condition of the country,
and especially of the relative positions of the sovereign and the noble. In the measures we
adopted to establish the authority of Shah Shoojah, we attempted to carry out a system of government
which could only have been made successful by a total revolution in the social condition of
the people, and in the relative positions of classes; and as these revolutions are not effected
in a few years, the attempt failed.[17]

     [17] The system, unpalatable as it was to the nation, might, no
     doubt, have been carried through by an overwhelming military
     force, if the country had been worth the cost; but if it was
     not intended to retain permanent possession of Affghanistan, it
     appears to us that the native government was far too much
     interfered with--that the British envoy, the British officers
     employed in the districts and provinces, and the British army,
     stood too much between the Shah and his subjects--that we were
     forming a government which it would be impossible to work in
     our absence, and creating a state of things which, the longer
     it might endure, would have made more remote the time at which
     our interference could be dispensed with.

But if the predominance of our influence and of our military power, and the effects of the
system we introduced, tended to depress the chiefs, it must have still more injuriously affected
or threatened the power of the priesthood.

This we believe to have been one of the primary and most essential causes of the revolt--this
it was that made the insurrection spread with such rapidity, and that finally united the whole
nation against us. With the aristocracy and the hierarchy of the country, it must have been
but a question of courage and of means--a calculation of the probability of success; and as
that probability was greatly increased by the results of the first movement at Cabul, and by
the inertness of our army after the first outbreak, all acquired courage enough to aid in doing
what all had previously desired to see done.

But if there be any justice in this view of the state of feeling in Affghanistan, even in the
moments of its greatest tranquillity, it is difficult to account for the confidence with which
the political authorities charged with the management of our affairs in that country looked
to the future, and the indifference with which they appear to have regarded what now must appear
to every one else to have been very significant, and even alarming, intimations of dissaffection
in Cabul, and hostility in the neighbouring districts.

But it is time we should return to Lieutenant Eyre, whose narrative of facts is infinitely
more attractive than any speculations we could offer.

     "At an early hour this morning, (2d November 1841,) the
     startling intelligence was brought from the city, that a
     popular outbreak had taken place; that the shops were all
     closed; and that a general attack had been made on the houses
     of all British officers residing in Cabul. About 8 A.M., a
     hurried note was received by the Envoy in cantonments from Sir
     Alexander Burnes, stating that the minds of the people had been
     strongly excited by some mischievous reports, but expressing a
     hope that he should succeed in quelling the commotion. About 9
     A.M., however, a rumour was circulated, which afterwards proved
     but too well founded, that Sir Alexander had been murdered, and
     Captain Johnson's treasury plundered. Flames were now seen to
     issue from that part of the city where they dwelt, and it was
     too apparent that the endeavour to appease the people by quiet
     means had failed, and that it would be necessary to have
     recourse to stronger measures. The report of firearms was
     incessant, and seemed to extend through the town from end to
     end.

     "Sir William Macnaghten now called upon General Elphinstone to
     act. An order was accordingly sent to Brigadier Shelton, then
     encamped at Seeah Sung, about a mile and a half distant from
     cantonments, to march forthwith to the Bala Hissar, or royal
     citadel, where his Majesty Shah Shoojah resided, commanding a
     large portion of the city, with the following troops:--viz. one
     company of H.M. 44th foot; a wing of the 54th regiment native
     infantry, under Major Ewart; the 6th regiment Shah's infantry,
     under Captain Hopkins; and four horse-artillery guns, under
     Captain Nicholl; and on arrival there, to act according to his
     own judgment, after consulting with the King.

     "The remainder of the troops encamped at Seeah Sung were at the
     same time ordered into cantonments: viz. H.M. 44th foot, under
     Lieutenant-Colonel Mackerell; two horse-artillery guns, under
     Lieutenant Waller; and Anderson's irregular horse. A messenger
     was likewise dispatched to recall the 37th native infantry from
     Khoord-Cabul without delay. The troops at this time in
     cantonments were as follows: viz. 5th regiment native infantry,
     under Lieutenant-Colonel Oliver; a wing of 54th native
     infantry; five six-pounder field guns, with a detachment of the
     Shah's artillery, under Lieutenant Warburton; the Envoy's
     body-guard; a troop of Skinner's horse, and another of local
     horse, under Lieutenant Walker; three companies of the Shah's
     sappers, under Captain Walsh; and about twenty men of the
     Company's sappers, attached to Captain Paton,
     assistant-quartermaster-general.

     "Widely spread and formidable as this insurrection proved to be
     afterwards, it was at first a mere insignificant ebullition of
     discontent on the part of a few desperate and restless men,
     which military energy and promptitude ought to have crushed in
     the bud. Its commencement was an attack by certainly not 300
     men on the dwellings of Sir Alexander Burnes and Captain
     Johnson, paymaster to the Shah's force; and so little did Sir
     Alexander himself apprehend serious consequences, that he not
     only refused, on its first breaking out, to comply with the
     earnest entreaties of the wuzeer to accompany him to the Bala
     Hissar, but actually forbade his guard to fire on the
     assailants, attempting to check what he supposed to be a mere
     riot, by haranguing the attacking party from the gallery of his
     house. The result was fatal to himself; for in spite of the
     devoted gallantry of the sepoys, who composed his guard, and
     that of the paymaster's office and treasury on the opposite
     side of the street, who yielded their trust only with their
     latest breath, the latter were plundered, and his two
     companions, Lieutenant William Broadfoot of the Bengal European
     regiment, and his brother, Lieutenant Burnes of the Bombay
     army, were massacred, in common with every man, woman, and
     child found on the premises, by these bloodthirsty miscreants.
     Lieutenant Broadfoot killed five or six men with his own hand,
     before he was shot down.

     "The King, who was in the Bala Hissar, being somewhat startled
     by the increasing number of the rioters, although not at the
     time aware, so far as we can judge, of the assassination of Sir
     A. Burnes, dispatched one of his sons with a number of his
     immediate Affghan retainers, and that corps of Hindoostanees
     commonly called Campbell's regiment, with two guns, to restore
     order: no support, however, was rendered to these by our
     troops, whose leaders appeared so thunderstruck by the
     intelligence of the outbreak, as to be incapable of adopting
     more than the most puerile defensive measures. Even Sir William
     Macnaghten seemed, from a note received at this time from him
     by Captain Trevor, to apprehend little danger, as he therein
     expressed his perfect confidence as to the speedy and complete
     success of Campbell's Hindoostanees in putting an end to the
     disturbance. Such, however, was not the case; for the enemy,
     encouraged by our inaction, increased rapidly in spirit and
     numbers, and drove back the King's guard with great slaughter,
     the guns being with difficulty saved.

     "It must be understood that Captain Trevor lived at this time
     with his family in a strong bourge or tower, situated by the
     river side, near the Kuzzilbash quarter, which, on the west, is
     wholly distinct from the remainder of the city. Within
     musket-shot, on the opposite side of the river, in the
     direction of the strong and populous village of Deh Affghan, is
     a fort of some size, then used as a godown, or storehouse, by
     the Shah's commissariat, part of it being occupied by Brigadier
     Anquetil, commanding the Shah's force. Close to this fort,
     divided by a narrow watercourse, was the house of Captain
     Troup, brigade-major of the Shah's force, perfectly defensible
     against musketry. Both Brigadier Anquetil and Captain Troup had
     gone out on horseback early in the morning towards cantonments,
     and were unable to return; but the above fort and house
     contained the usual guard of sepoys; and in a garden close at
     hand, called the Yaboo-Khaneh, or lines of the
     baggage-cattle, was a small detachment of the Shah's sappers
     and miners, and a party of Captain Ferris's juzailchees.
     Captain Trevor's tower was capable of being made good against a
     much stronger force than the rebels at this present time could
     have collected, had it been properly garrisoned.

     "As it was, the Hazirbash,[18] or King's lifeguards, were,
     under Captain Trevor, congregated round their leader, to
     protect him and his family; which duty, it will be seen, they
     well performed under very trying circumstances. For what took
     place in this quarter I beg to refer to a communication made to
     me at my request by Captain Colin Mackenzie,[19] assistant
     political agent at Peshawur, who then occupied the godown
     portion of the fort above mentioned, which will be found
     hereafter.[20]

     "I have already stated that Brigadier Shelton was, early in the
     day, directed to proceed with part of the Seeah Sung force to
     occupy the Bala Hissar, and, if requisite, to lead his troops
     against the insurgents. Captain Lawrence, military secretary to
     the Envoy, was at the same time sent forward to prepare the
     King for that officer's reception. Taking with him four
     troopers of the body-guard, he was galloping along the main
     road, when, shortly after crossing the river, he was suddenly
     attacked by an Affghan, who, rushing from behind a wall, made a
     desperate cut at him with a large two-handed knife. He
     dexterously avoided the blow by spurring his horse on one side;
     but, passing onwards, he was fired upon by about fifty men,
     who, having seen his approach, ran out from the Lahore gate of
     the city to intercept him. He reached the Bala Hissar safe,
     where he found the King apparently in a state of great
     agitation, he having witnessed the assault from the window of
     his palace. His Majesty expressed an eager desire to conform to
     the Envoy's wishes in all respects in this emergency.

     "Captain Lawrence was still conferring with the King, when
     Lieutenant Sturt, our executive engineer, rushed into the
     palace, stabbed in three places about the face and neck. He had
     been sent by Brigadier Shelton to make arrangements for the
     accommodation of the troops, and had reached the gate of the
     Dewan Khaneh, or hall of audience, when the attempt at his
     life was made by some one who had concealed himself there for
     that purpose, and who immediately effected his escape. The
     wounds were fortunately not dangerous, and Lieutenant Sturt was
     conveyed back to cantonments in the King's own palanquin, under
     a strong escort. Soon after this Brigadier Shelton's force
     arrived; but the day was suffered to pass without any thing
     being done demonstrative of British energy and power. The
     murder of our countrymen, and the spoliation of public and
     private property, was perpetrated with impunity within a mile
     of our cantonment, and under the very walls of the Bala Hissar.

     "Such an exhibition on our part taught the enemy their
     strength--confirmed against us those who, however disposed to
     join in the rebellion, had hitherto kept aloof from prudential
     motives, and ultimately encouraged the nation to unite as one
     man for our destruction.

     "It was, in fact, the crisis of all others calculated to test
     the qualities of a military commander. Whilst, however, it is
     impossible for an unprejudiced person to approve the military
     dispositions of this eventful period, it is equally our duty to
     discriminate. The most responsible party is not always the
     most culpable. It would be the height of injustice to a most
     amiable and gallant officer not to notice the long course of
     painful and wearing illness, which had materially affected the
     nerves, and probably even the intellect, of General
     Elphinstone; cruelly incapacitating him, so far as he was
     personally concerned, from acting in this sudden emergency with
     the promptitude and vigour necessary for our preservation.

     "Unhappily, Sir William Macnaghten at first made light of the
     insurrection, and, by his representations as to the general
     feeling of the people towards us, not only deluded himself, but
     misled the General in council. The unwelcome truth was soon
     forced upon us, that in the whole Affghan nation we could not
     reckon on a single friend.

     "But though no active measures of aggression were taken, all
     necessary preparations were made to secure the cantonment
     against attack. It fell to my own lot to place every available
     gun in position round the works. Besides the guns already
     mentioned, we had in the magazine 6 nine-pounder iron guns, 3
     twenty-four pounder howitzers, 1 twelve-pounder ditto, and 3
     5-1/2-inch mortars; but the detail of artillerymen fell very
     short of what was required to man all these efficiently,
     consisting of only 80 Punjabees belonging to the Shah, under
     Lieutenant Warburton, very insufficiently instructed, and of
     doubtful fidelity."

     [18] Affghan horse.

     [19] The detachment under Captain Mackenzie consisted of about
     seventy juzailchees or Affghan riflemen, and thirty sappers,
     who had been left in the town in charge of the wives and
     children of the corps, all of whom were brought safe into the
     cantonments by that gallant party, who fought their way from
     the heart of the town.

     [20] "I am sorry to say that this document has not reached me
     with the rest of the manuscript. I have not struck out the
     reference, because there is hope that it still exists, and may
     yet be appended to this narrative. The loss of any thing else
     from Captain Mackenzie's pen will be regretted by all who read
     his other communication, the account of the Envoy's
     murder.--EDITOR." To one
end of this work was attached the Mission compound and enclosure, about
half as large as the cantonment, surrounded by a simple wall. This space
required to be defended in time of war, and it rendered the whole of one
face of the cantonment nugatory for purposes of defence. The profile of
the works themselves was weak, being in fact an ordinary field-work. But
the most strange and unaccountable circumstance recorded by Lieutenant
Eyre respecting these military arrangements, is certainly the fact, that
the commissariat stores, containing whatever the army possessed of food
or clothing, was not within the circuit of these fortified cantonments,
but in a detached and weak fort, the gate of which was commanded by
another building at a short distance. Our author thus sums up his
observations on these cantonments:--

     "In fact, we were so hemmed in on all sides, that, when the
     rebellion became general, the troops could not move out a dozen
     paces from either gate without being exposed to the fire of
     some neighbouring hostile fort, garrisoned, too, by marksmen
     who seldom missed their aim. The country around us was likewise
     full of impediments to the movements of artillery and cavalry,
     being in many places flooded, and every where closely
     intersected by deep water-cuts.

     "I cannot help adding, in conclusion, that almost all the
     calamities that befell our ill-starred force may be traced more
     or less to the defects of our position; and that our cantonment
     at Cabul, whether we look to its situation or its construction,
     must ever be spoken of as a disgrace to our military skill and
     judgment."

Nov. 3.--The 37th native infantry arrived in cantonments, as previously stated.

     "Early in the afternoon, a detachment under Major Swayne,
     consisting of two companies 5th native infantry, one of H.M.
     44th, and two H.A. guns under Lieutenant Waller, proceeded out
     of the western gate towards the city, to effect, if possible, a
     junction at the Lahore gate with a part of Brigadier Shelton's
     force from the Bala Hissar. They drove back and defeated a
     party of the enemy who occupied the road near the Shah Bagh,
     but had to encounter a sharp fire from the Kohistan gate of the
     city, and from the walls of various enclosures, behind which a
     number of marksmen had concealed themselves, as also from the
     fort of Mahmood Khan, commanding the road along which they had
     to pass. Lieutenant Waller and several sepoys were wounded.
     Major Swayne, observing the whole line of road towards the
     Lahore gate strongly occupied by some Affghan horse and
     juzailchees, and fearing that he would be unable to effect the
     object in view with so small a force unsupported by cavalry,
     retired into cantonments. Shortly after this, a large body of
     the rebels having issued from the fort of Mahmood Khan, 900
     yards southeast of cantonments, extended themselves in a line
     along the bank of the river, displaying a flag; an iron
     nine-pounder was brought to bear on them from our southeast
     bastion, and a round or two of shrapnell caused them to seek
     shelter behind some neighbouring banks, whence, after some
     desultory firing on both sides, they retired.

     "Whatever hopes may have been entertained, up to this period,
     of a speedy termination to the insurrection, they began now to
     wax fainter every hour, and an order was dispatched to the
     officer commanding at Candahar to lose no time in sending to
     our assistance the 16th and 43d regiments native infantry,
     (which were under orders for India,) together with a troop of
     horse-artillery and half a regiment of cavalry; an order was
     likewise sent off to recall General Sale with his brigade from
     Gundamuk. Captain John Conolly, political assistant to the
     Envoy, went into the Bala Hissar early this morning, to remain
     with the King, and to render every assistance in his power to
     Brigadier Shelton."

On this day Lieutenants Maule and Wheeler were murdered at Kahdarrah in Koohdaman; the Kohistan
regiment of Affghans which they commanded, offering no resistance to the rebels. The two officers
defended themselves resolutely for some time, but fell under the fire of the enemy. Lieutenant
Maule had been warned of his danger by a friendly native, but refused to desert his post.

On this day also Lieutenant Rattray, Major Pottinger's assistant, was treacherously murdered
at Lughmanee, during a conference to which he had been invited, and within sight of the small
fort in which these two gentlemen resided. This act was followed by a general insurrection
in Kohistan and Koohdaman, which terminated in the destruction of the Goorkha regiment at Charikar,
and the slaughter of all the Europeans in that district except Major Pottinger and Lieutenant
Haughton, both severely wounded, who, with one sepoy and one or two followers, succeeded in
eluding the vigilance of the Affghan parties, who were patrolling the roads for the purpose
of intercepting them, and at length arrived in cantonments, having actually passed at night
through the town and bazars of Cabul. For the details of this interesting and afflicting episode
in Mr Eyre's narrative, we must refer our readers to the work itself. Major Pottinger appears
on this occasion to have exhibited the same high courage and promptitude and vigour in action,
and the same resources in difficulty, that made him conspicuous at Herat, and Lieutenant Haughton
was no unworthy companion of such a man.

     "November 4.--The enemy having taken strong possession of the
     Shah Bagh, or King's Garden, and thrown a garrison into the
     fort of Mahomed Shereef, nearly opposite the bazar, effectually
     prevented any communication between the cantonment and
     commissariat fort, the gate of which latter was commanded by
     the gate of the Shah Bagh on the other side of the road.

     "Ensign Warren of the 5th native infantry at this time occupied
     the commissariat fort with 100 men, and having reported that he
     was very hard pressed by the enemy, and in danger of being
     completely cut off, the General, either forgetful or unaware at
     the moment of the important fact, that upon the possession of
     this fort we were entirely dependent for provisions, and
     anxious only to save the lives of men whom he believed to be in
     imminent peril, hastily gave directions that a party under the
     command of Captain Swayne, of H.M.'s 44th regiment, should
     proceed immediately to bring off Ensign Warren and his garrison
     to cantonments, abandoning the fort to the enemy. A few minutes
     previously an attempt to relieve him had been made by Ensign
     Gordon, with a company of the 37th native infantry and eleven
     camels laden with ammunition; but the party were driven back,
     and Ensign Gordon killed. Captain Swayne now accordingly
     proceeded towards the spot with two companies of H.M.'s 44th;
     scarcely had they issued from cantonments ere a sharp and
     destructive fire was poured upon them from Mahomed Shereef's
     fort which, as they proceeded, was taken up by the marksmen in
     the Shah Bagh, under whose deadly aim both officers and men
     suffered severely; Captains Swayne and Robinson of the 44th
     being killed, and Lieutenants Hallahan, Evans, and Fortye
     wounded in this disastrous business. It now seemed to the
     officer, on whom the command had devolved, impracticable to
     bring off Ensign Warren's party without risking the
     annihilation of his own, which had already sustained so rapid
     and severe a loss in officers; he therefore returned forthwith
     to cantonments. In the course of the evening another attempt
     was made by a party of the 5th light cavalry; but they
     encountered so severe a fire from the neighbouring enclosures
     as obliged them to return without effecting their desired
     object, with the loss of eight troopers killed and fourteen
     badly wounded. Captain Boyd, the assistant commissary-general,
     having meanwhile been made acquainted with the General's
     intention to give up the fort, hastened to lay before him the
     disastrous consequences that would ensue from so doing. He
     stated that the place contained, besides large supplies of
     wheat and attah, all his stores of rum, medicine, clothing,
     &c., the value of which might be estimated at four lacs of
     rupees; that to abandon such valuable property would not only
     expose the force to the immediate want of the necessaries of
     life, but would infallibly inspire the enemy with tenfold
     courage. He added that we had not above two days' supply of
     provisions in cantonments, and that neither himself nor Captain
     Johnson of the Shah's commissariat had any prospect of
     procuring them elsewhere under existing circumstances. In
     consequence of this strong representation on the part of
     Captain Boyd, the General sent immediate orders to Ensign
     Warren to hold out the fort to the last extremity. (Ensign
     Warren, it must be remarked, denied having received this note.)
     Early in the night a letter was received from him to the effect
     that he believed the enemy were busily engaged in mining one of
     the towers, and that such was the alarm among the sepoys that
     several of them had actually made their escape over the wall to
     cantonments; that the enemy were making preparations to burn
     down the gate; and that, considering the temper of his men, he
     did not expect to be able to hold out many hours longer, unless
     reinforced without delay. In reply to this he was informed
     that he would be reinforced by two A.M.

     "At about nine o'clock P.M., there was an assembly of staff and
     other officers at the General's house, when the Envoy came in
     and expressed his serious conviction, that unless Mahomed
     Shereef's fort were taken that very night, we should lose the
     commissariat fort, or at all events be unable to bring out of
     it provisions for the troops. The disaster of the morning
     rendered the General extremely unwilling to expose his officers
     and men to any similar peril; but, on the other hand, it was
     urged that the darkness of the night would nullify the enemy's
     fire, who would also most likely be taken unawares, as it was
     not the custom of the Affghans to maintain a very strict watch
     at night. A man in Captain Johnson's employ was accordingly
     sent out to reconnoitre the place. He returned in a few minutes
     with the intelligence that about twenty men were seated outside
     the fort near the gate, smoking and talking; and, from what he
     overheard of their conversation, he judged the garrison to be
     very small, and unable to resist a sudden onset. The debate was
     now resumed, but another hour passed and the General could not
     make up his mind. A second spy was dispatched, whose report
     tended to corroborate what the first had said. I was then sent
     to Lieutenant Sturt, the engineer, who was nearly recovered
     from his wounds, for his opinion. He at first expressed himself
     in favour of an immediate attack, but, on hearing that some of
     the enemy were on the watch at the gate, he judged it prudent
     to defer the assault till an early hour in the morning: this
     decided the General, though not before several hours had
     slipped away in fruitless discussion.

     "Orders were at last given for a detachment to be in readiness
     at four A.M. at the Kohistan gate; and Captain Bellew,
     deputy-assistant quartermaster-general, volunteered to blow
     open the gate; another party of H.M.'s 44th were at the same
     time to issue by a cut in the south face of the rampart, and
     march simultaneously towards the commissariat fort, to
     reinforce the garrison. Morning had, however, well dawned ere
     the men could be got under arms; and they were on the point of
     marching off, when it was reported that Ensign Warren had just
     arrived in cantonments with his garrison, having evacuated the
     fort. It seems that the enemy had actually set fire to the
     gate; and Ensign Warren, seeing no prospect of a reinforcement,
     and expecting the enemy every moment to rush in, led out his
     men by a hole which he had prepared in the wall. Being called
     upon in a public letter from the assistant adjutant-general to
     state his reasons for abandoning his post, he replied that he
     was ready to do so before a court of enquiry, which he
     requested might be assembled to investigate his conduct; it was
     not, however, deemed expedient to comply with his request.

     "It is beyond a doubt that our feeble and ineffectual defence
     of this fort, and the valuable booty it yielded, was the first
     fatal blow to our supremacy at Cabul, and at once determined
     those chiefs--and more particularly the Kuzzilbashes--who had
     hitherto remained neutral, to join in the general combination
     to drive us from the country."

"Nov. 5.--It no sooner became generally known that the commissariat fort, upon which we were
dependent for supplies, had been abandoned, than one universal feeling of indignation pervaded
the garrison. Nor can I describe," says Lieutenant Eyre, "the impatience of the troops, but
especially of the native portion, to be led out for its recapture--a feeling that was by no
means diminished by seeing the Affghans crossing and re-crossing the road between the commissariat
fort and the gate of the Shah Bagh, laden with the provisions upon which had depended our ability
to make a protracted defence."

That the whole commissariat should have been deposited in a detached fort is extraordinary
and inexcusable, but that the garrison of that fort should not have been reinforced, is even
more unintelligible; and that a sufficient force was not at once sent to succour and protect
it when attacked, is altogether unaccountable. General Elphinstone was disabled by his infirmities
from efficiently discharging the duties that had devolved upon him, but he appears to have
been ready to act upon the suggestion of others. What then were his staff about?--some of them
are said to have had little difficulty or delicacy in urging their own views upon their commander.
Did they not suggest to him in time the importance, the necessity, of saving the commissariat
at all hazards?

At the suggestion of Lieutenant Eyre, it was determined to attempt the capture of Mahomed Shereef's
fort by blowing open the gate, Mr Eyre volunteering to keep the road clear for the storming
party with the guns. "The General agreed; a storming party under Major Swayne, 6th native infantry,
was ordered; the powder bags were got ready, and at noon we issued from the western gate."
"For twenty minutes the guns were worked under a very sharp fire from the fort;" but "Major
Swayne, instead of rushing forward with his men as had been agreed, had in the mean time remained
stationary, under cover of the wall by the road-side." The General, seeing that the attempt
had failed, recalled the troops into cantonments.

"Nov. 6.--It was now determined to take the fort of Mahomed Shereef by regular breach and assault."
A practicable breach was effected, and a storming party composed of one company H.M. 44th,
under Ensign Raban, one ditto 5th native infantry, under Lieutenant Deas, and one ditto 37th
native infantry, under Lieutenant Steer, the whole commanded by Major Griffiths, speedily carried
the place. "Poor Raban was shot through the heart when conspicuously waving a flag on the summit
of the breach."

As this fort adjoined the Shah Bagh, it was deemed advisable to dislodge the enemy from the
latter if possible. This was partially effected, and, had advantage been taken of the opportunity
to occupy the buildings of the garden gateway, "immediate re-possession could have been taken
of the commissariat fort opposite, which had not yet been emptied of half its contents."

In the mean time, our cavalry were engaged in an affair with the enemy's horse, in which we
appear to have had the advantage. "The officers gallantly headed their men, and encountered
about an equal number of the enemy who advanced to meet them. A hand-to-hand encounter took
place, which ended in the Affghan horse retreating to the plain, leaving the hill in our possession.
In this affair, Captain Anderson personally engaged and slew the brother in-law of Abdoolah Khan."

But the Affghans collected from various quarters; the juzailchees,[21] under Captain Mackenzie,
were driven with great loss from the Shah Bagh which they had entered; and a gun which had
been employed to clear that enclosure was with difficulty saved. Our troops having been drawn
up on the plain, remained prepared to receive an attack from the enemy, who gradually retired
as the night closed in.

     [21] Affghan riflemen.

Nov. 8.--An attempt was made by the enemy to mine a tower of the fort that had been taken,
which they could not have done had the gate of the Shah Bagh been occupied. The chief cause
of anxiety now was the empty state of the granary. Even with high bribes and liberal payment,
the Envoy could not procure sufficient for daily consumption. The plan of the enemy now was
to starve us out, and the chiefs exerted all their influence to prevent our being supplied.

Nov. 9.--The General's weak state of health rendered it necessary to relieve him from the command
of the garrison, and at the earnest request of the Envoy, Brigadier Shelton was summoned from
the Bala Hissar, "in the hope that, by heartily co-operating with the Envoy and General, he
would strengthen their hands and rouse the sinking confidence of the troops. He entered cantonments
this morning, bringing with him one H.A. gun, one mountain-train ditto, one company H.M.'s
44th, the Shah's 6th infantry, and a small supply of attah (flour.)"

     "November 10.--Henceforward Brigadier Shelton bore a
     conspicuous part in the drama, upon the issue of which so much
     depended. He had, however, from the very first, seemed to
     despair of the force being able to hold out the winter at
     Cabul, and strenuously advocated an immediate retreat to
     Jellalabad.

     "This sort of despondency proved, unhappily, very infectious.
     It soon spread its baneful influence among the officers, and
     was by them communicated to the soldiery. The number of
     croakers in garrison became perfectly frightful, lugubrious
     looks and dismal prophecies being encountered every where. The
     severe losses sustained by H.M.'s 44th under Captain Swayne, on
     the 4th instant, had very much discouraged the men of that
     regiment; and it is a lamentable fact that some of those
     European soldiers, who were naturally expected to exhibit to
     their native brethren in arms an example of endurance and
     fortitude, were among the first to loose confidence, and give
     vent to feelings of discontent at the duties imposed on them.
     The evil seed, once sprung up, became more and more difficult
     to eradicate, showing daily more and more how completely
     demoralizing to the British soldier is the very idea of a
     retreat.

     "Sir William Macnaghten and his suite were altogether opposed
     to Brigadier Shelton in this matter, it being in his (the
     Envoy's) estimation a duty we owed the Government to retain our
     post, at whatsoever risk. This difference of opinion, on a
     question of such vital importance, was attended with unhappy
     results, inasmuch as it deprived the General, in his hour of
     need, of the strength which unanimity imparts, and produced an
     uncommunicative and disheartening reserve in an emergency which
     demanded the freest interchange of counsel and ideas."

On the morning of this day, large parties of the enemy's horse and foot occupied the heights
to the east and to the west of the cantonments, which, it was supposed, they intended to assault.
No attack was made; but "on the eastern quarter, parties of the enemy, moving down into the
plain, occupied all the forts in that direction. ... At this time, not above two days' provisions
remained in garrison; and it was very clear, that unless the enemy were quickly driven out
from their new possession, we should soon be completely hemmed in on all sides." At the Envoy's
urgent desire, he taking the entire responsibility on himself, the General ordered a force,
under Brigadier Shelton, to storm the Rikabashee fort, which was within musket-shot of the
cantonments, and from which a galling fire had been poured into the Mission compound by the
Affghans. About noon, the troops assembled at the eastern gate; a storming party of two companies
from each regiment taking the lead, preceded by Captain Bellew, who hurried forward to blow
open the gate--but missing the gate, he blew open a small wicket, through which not more than
two or three men could enter abreast, and these in a stooping posture. A sharp fire was kept
up from the walls, and many of the bravest fell in attempting to force their entrance through
the wicket; but Colonel Mackerell of the 44th, and Lieutenant Bird of the Shah's 6th infantry,
with a handful of Europeans and a few sepoys, forced their way in--the garrison fled through
the gate which was at the opposite side, and Colonel Mackerell and his little party closed
it, securing the chain with a bayonet; but, at this moment, some Affghan horse charged round
the corner--the cry of cavalry was raised--"the Europeans gave way simultaneously with the
sepoys--a bugler of the 6th infantry, through mistake, sounded the retreat--and it became for
a time, a scene of sauve qui peut." In vain did the officers endeavour to rally the men, and
to lead them back to the rescue of their commanding-officer and their comrades; only one man,
private Stewart of the 44th, listened to the appeal and returned.

"Let me here (says Lieutenant Eyre) do Brigadier Shelton justice: his acknowledged courage
redeemed the day." After great efforts, at last he rallied them--again advancing to the attack,
again they faltered. A third time did the Brigadier bring on his men to the assault, which
now proved successful; but while this disgraceful scene was passing outside the fort, the enemy
had forced their way into it, and had cut to pieces Colonel Mackerell and all his little party,
except Lieutenant Bird, who, with one sepoy, was found in a barricaded apartment, where these
two brave men had defended themselves till the return of the troops, killing above thirty of
the enemy by the fire of their two muskets.

Our loss on this occasion was not less than 200 killed and wounded; but the results of this
success, though dearly purchased, were important. Four neighbouring forts were immediately
evacuated by the enemy, and occupied by our troops: they were found to contain 1400 maunds
of grain, of which about one-half was removed into cantonments immediately; but Brigadier Shelton
not having thought it prudent to place a guard for the protection of the remainder, it was
carried off during the night by the Affghans. "Permanent possession was, however, taken of
the Rikabashee and Zoolfikar forts, and the towers of the remainder were blown up on the following
day."

It cannot fail to excite surprise, that these forts, which do not seem to have been occupied
by the enemy till the 10th, were not either occupied or destroyed by the British troops before
that day.

Nov. 13.--The enemy appeared in great force on the western heights, where, having posted two
guns, they fired into cantonments with considerable precision. At the entreaty of the Envoy,
it was determined to attack them--a force, under Brigadier Shelton, moved out for that purpose--the
advance, under Major Thain, ascended the hill with great gallantry; "but the enemy resolutely
stood their ground at the summit of the ridge, and unflinchingly received the discharge of
our musketry, which, strange to say, even at the short range of ten or twelve yards, did little
or no execution."

The fire of our guns, however, threw the Affghans into confusion. A charge of cavalry drove
them up the hill, and the infantry advancing, carried the height, the enemy retreating along
the ridge, closely followed by our troops, and abandoning their guns to us; but, owing to the
misconduct of the troops, only one of them was carried away, the men refusing to advance to
drag off the other, which was therefore spiked by Lieutenant Eyre, with the aid of one artilleryman.

     "This was the last success our arms were destined to
     experience. Henceforward it becomes my weary task to relate a
     catalogue of errors, disasters, and difficulties, which,
     following close upon each other, disgusted our officers,
     disheartened our soldiers, and finally sunk us all into
     irretrievable ruin, as though Heaven itself, by a combination
     of evil circumstances, for its own inscrutable purposes, had
     planned our downfall.

     "November 16th.--The impression made by the enemy by the
     action of the 13th was so far salutary, that they did not
     venture to annoy us again for several days. Advantage was taken
     of this respite to throw magazine supplies from time to time
     into the Bala Hissar, a duty which was ably performed by
     Lieutenant Walker, with a resalah of irregular horse, under
     cover of night. But even in this short interval of comparative
     rest, such was the wretched construction of the cantonment,
     that the mere ordinary routine of garrison duty, and the
     necessity of closely manning our long line of rampart both by
     day and night, was a severe trial to the health and patience of
     the troops; especially now that the winter began to show
     symptoms of unusual severity. There seemed, indeed, every
     probability of an early fall of snow, to which all looked
     forward with dread, as the harbinger of fresh difficulties and
     of augmented suffering.

     "These considerations, and the manifest superiority of the Bala
     Hissar as a military position, led to the early discussion of
     the expediency of abandoning the cantonment, and consolidating
     our forces in the above-mentioned stronghold. The Envoy himself
     was, from the first, greatly in favour of this move, until
     overruled by the many objections urged against it by the
     military authorities; to which, as will be seen by a letter
     from him presently quoted, he learned by degrees to attach some
     weight himself; but to the very last it was a measure that had
     many advocates, and I venture to state my own firm belief that,
     had we at this time moved into the Bala Hissar, Cabul would
     have been still in our possession.

     "But Brigadier Shelton having firmly set his face against the
     movement from the first moment of its proposition, all serious
     idea of it was gradually abandoned, though it continued to the
     very last a subject of common discussion."

"Nov. 18. Accounts were this day received from Jellalabad, that General Sale, having sallied
from the town, had repulsed the enemy with considerable loss.... The hope of his return has
tended much to support our spirits; our disappointment was therefore great, to learn that all
expectation of aid from that quarter was at an end. Our eyes were now turned towards the Kandahar
force as our last resource though an advance from that quarter seemed scarcely practicable
so late in the year."

The propriety of attacking Mahomed Khan's fort, the possession of which would have opened an
easy communication with the Bala Hissar, was discussed; but, on some sudden objection raised
by Lieutenant Sturt of the engineers, the project was abandoned.

On the 19th, a letter was addressed by the Envoy to the General, the object of which seems
not to be very apparent. He raises objections to a retreat either to Jellalabad or to the Bala
Hissar, and expresses a decided objection to abandon the cantonment under any circumstances,
if food can be procured; but, nevertheless, it is sufficiently evident that his hopes of successful
resistance had even now become feeble, and he refers to the possibility that succours may arrive
from Kandahar, or that "something might turn up in our favour."

The village of Beymaroo, (or Husbandless, from a beautiful virgin who was nursed there,) within
half a mile of the cantonments, had been our chief source of supply, to which the enemy had
in some measure put a stop by occupying it every morning. It was therefore determined to endeavour
to anticipate them by taking possession of it before their arrival. For this purpose, a party
moved out under Major Swayne of the 5th native infantry; but the Major, "it would seem, by
his own account, found the village already occupied, and the entrance blocked up in such a
manner that he considered it out of his power to force a passage." It does not appear that
the attempt was made. Later in the day there was some skirmishing in the plain, in the course
of which Lieutenant Eyre was wounded.

"It is worthy of note that Mahomed Akber Khan, second son of the late Ameer Dost Mahomed Khan,
arrived in Cabul this night (22d Nov.) from Bameean. This man was destined to exercise an evil
influence over our future fortunes. The crisis of our struggle was already nigh at hand."

"Nov. 23.--This day decided the fate of the Cabul force." It had been determined by a council,
at the special recommendation of the Envoy, that a force under Brigadier Shelton should storm
the village of Beymaroo, and maintain the hill above it against any numbers of the enemy that
might appear. At two A.M., the troops[22] moved out of cantonments, ascended the hill by the
gorge, dragging up the gun, and moved along the ridge to a point overlooking the village. A
sharp fire of grape created great confusion, and it was suggested by Captain Bellew and others
to General Shelton, to storm the village, while the evident panic of the enemy lasted. To this
the Brigadier did not accede.

     [22] Five companies 44th; six companies 5th native infantry;
     six companies 37th native infantry; 100 sappers; 2-1/2
     squadrons cavalry; one gun.

When day broke, the enemy, whose ammunition had failed, were seen hurrying from the village--not
40 men remained. A storming party, under Majors Swayne and Kershaw, was ordered to carry the
village; but Major Swayne missed the gate, which was open, and arrived at a barricaded wicket,
which he had no means of forcing. Major Swayne was wounded, and lost some men, and was ultimately
recalled. Leaving a reserve of three companies of the 37th native infantry, under Major Kershaw,
at the point overhanging Beymaroo, the Brigadier moved back with the rest of the troops and
the gun to the part of the hill which overlooked the gorge. It was suggested to raise a sungar
or breastwork to protect the troops, for which purpose the sappers had been taken out, but
it was not done. Immense numbers of the enemy, issuing from the city, had now crowned the opposite
hill--in all, probably 10,000 men. Our skirmishers were kept out with great difficulty, and
chiefly by the exertions and example of Colonel Oliver. The remainder of the troops were formed
into two squares, and the cavalry drawn up en masse immediately in their rear, and all suffered
severely--the vent of the only gun became too hot to be served. A party of cavalry under Lieutenant
Walker was recalled to prevent its destruction, and a demonstration of the Affghan cavalry
on our right flank, which had been exposed by the recall of Lieutenant Walker, was repulsed
by a fire of shrapnell, which mortally wounded a chief of consequence. The enemy surrounded
the troops on three sides. The men were faint with fatigue and thirst--the Affghan skirmishers
pressed on, and our's gave way. The men could not be got to charge bayonets. The enemy made
a rush at the guns, the cavalry were ordered to charge, but would not follow their officers.
The first square and the cavalry gave way, and were with difficulty rallied behind the second
square, leaving the gun in the hands of the enemy, who immediately carried off the limber and
horses. News of Abdoolah Khan's wound spread amongst the Affghans, who now retired. Our men
resumed courage, and regained possession of the gun; and fresh ammunition having arrived from
cantonments, it again opened on the enemy: but our cavalry would not act, and the infantry
were too much exhausted and disheartened to make a forward movement, and too few in number.
The whole force of the enemy came on with renewed vigour--the front of the advanced square
had been literally mowed down, and most of the gallant artillerymen had fallen. The gun was
scarcely limbered up preparatory to retreat, when a rush from the Ghazees broke the first square.
All order was at an end, the entreaties and commands of the officers were unheeded, and an
utter rout ensued down the hill towards the cantonments, the enemy's cavalry making a fearful
slaughter among the unresisting fugitives. The retreat of Major Kershaw's party was cut off,
and his men were nearly all destroyed. The mingled tide of flight and pursuit seemed to be
about to enter the cantonments together; but the pursuers were checked by the fire of the Shah's
5th infantry and the juzailchees, and by a charge of a fresh troop of cavalry under Lieutenant
Hardyman, and fifteen or twenty of his own men rallied by Lieutenant Walker, who fell in that
encounter. Osman Khan, too, a chief whose men were amongst the foremost, voluntarily halted
them and drew them off, "which may be reckoned, indeed, (says Lieutenant Eyre,) the chief reason
why all of our people who on that day went forth to battle were not destroyed." The gun and
the second limber which had arrived from the cantonments, in attempting to gallop down hill,
was overturned and lost. "Our loss was tremendous--the greater part of the wounded, including
Colonel Oliver, having been left in the field, where they were miserably cut to pieces."[23]

     [23] In Mr Eyre's observations on this disastrous affair, he
     enumerates six errors, which he says must present themselves to
     the most unpractised military eye. "The first, and perhaps the
     most fatal mistake of all, was the taking only one gun;" but he
     admits that there was only one gun ready, and that, if the
     Brigadier had waited for the second, he must have postponed the
     enterprise for a day. This would probably have been the more
     prudent course.

     The second error was, that advantage was not taken of the panic
     in the village, to storm it at once in the dark; but it appears
     from his own account, that there were not more than forty men
     remaining in the village when it was attacked, after daylight,
     and that the chief cause of the failure of that attack, was
     Major Swayne's having missed the gate, a misfortune which was,
     certainly, at least as likely to have occurred in the dark.

     The third was, that the sappers were not employed to raise a
     breastwork for the protection of the troops. This objection
     appears to be well founded.

     The fourth was, that the infantry were formed into squares, to
     resist the distant fire of infantry, on ground over which no
     cavalry could have charged with effect. It appears to be so
     utterly unintelligible that any officer should have been guilty
     of so manifest an absurdity, that the circumstances seem to
     require further elucidation; but that the formation was
     unfortunate, is sufficiently obvious.

     Fifthly, that the position chosen for the cavalry was
     erroneous; and sixthly, that the retreat was too long deferred.
     Both these objections appear to be just.

Thus terminated in disaster the military struggle at Cabul, and then commenced that series
of negotiations not less disastrous, which led to the murder of the Envoy, to the retreat of
the army, and to its ultimate annihilation. In Lieutenant Eyre's account of their military
operations, we look in vain for any evidence of promptitude, vigour, or decision, skill or
judgment, in the commanders; and we have abundant evidence of a lamentable want of discipline
and proper spirit in the troops, especially amongst the Europeans. Instances of high personal
courage and gallantry amongst the officers are numerous, and they always will be, when the
occasion requires them; but if the facts of this narrative had been given without the names,
no man would have recognised in it the operations of a British army.

     "Nov. 24.--Our troops (says Eyre) had now lost all
     confidence; and even such of the officers as had hitherto
     indulged the hope of a favourable turn in our affairs, began at
     last reluctantly to entertain gloomy forebodings as to our
     future fate. Our force resembled a ship in danger of wrecking
     among rocks and shoals, for want of an able pilot to guide it
     safely through them. Even now, at the eleventh hour, had the
     helm of affairs been grasped by a hand competent to the
     important task, we might perhaps have steered clear of
     destruction; but, in the absence of any such deliverer, it was
     but too evident that Heaven alone could save us by some
     unforeseen interposition. The spirit of the men was gone; the
     influence of the officers over them declined daily; and that
     boasted discipline, which alone renders a handful of our troops
     superior to an irregular multitude, began fast to disappear
     from among us. The enemy, on the other hand, waxed bolder every
     day and every hour; nor was it long ere we got accustomed to be
     bearded with impunity from under the very ramparts of our
     garrison.

     "Never were troops exposed to greater hardships and dangers;
     yet, sad to say, never did soldiers shed their blood with less
     beneficial result than during the investment of the British
     lines at Cabul."

Captain Conolly now wrote from the Bala Hissar, urging an immediate retreat thither; "but the
old objections were still urged against the measure by Brigadier Shelton and others," though
several of the chief military, and all the political officers, approved of it. Shah Shoojah
was impatient to receive them.

The door to negotiation was opened by a letter to the Envoy from Osman Khan Barukzye, a near
relation of the new king, Nuwab Mahomed Zuman Khan, who had sheltered Captain Drummond in his
own house since the first day of the outbreak. He took credit to himself for having checked
the ardour of his followers on the preceding day, and having thus saved the British force from
destruction; he declared that the chiefs only desired we should quietly evacuate the country,
leaving them to govern it according to their own rules, and with a king of their own choosing.
The General, on being referred to, was of opinion that the cantonments could not be defended
throughout the winter, and approved of opening a negotiation on the basis of the evacuation
of the country. On the 27th, two deputies were sent by the assembled chiefs to confer with
Sir W. Macnaghten; but the terms they proposed were such as he could not accept. The deputies
took leave of the Envoy, with the exclamation, that "we should meet again in battle." "We shall
at all events meet," replied Sir William, "at the day of judgment."

At night the Envoy received a letter, proposing "that we should deliver up Shah Shoojah and
all his family--lay down our arms, and make an unconditional surrender--when they might, perhaps,
be induced to spare our lives, and allow us to leave the country on condition of never returning."

The Envoy replied, "that these terms were too dishonourable to be entertained for a moment;
and that, if they were persisted in, he must again appeal to arms, leaving the result to the
God of battles."

Active hostilities were not renewed till the 1st of December, when a desperate effort was made
by the enemy to gain possession of the Bala Hissar; but they were repulsed by Major Ewart with
considerable slaughter. On the 4th, they cannonaded the cantonment from the Beymaroo hills,
but did little mischief, and at night they made an unsuccessful attempt on Mahomed Shereef's
fort. On the 5th, they completed, without opposition, the destruction of the bridge over the
Cabul river. On the 6th, the garrison of Mahomed Shereef's fort disgracefully abandoned it,
the men of the 44th apparently being the first to fly; and a garrison of the same regiment,
in the bazar village, was with difficulty restrained from following their example. On the 7th,
this post of honour was occupied by the 37th native infantry; the 44th, who had hitherto been
intrusted with it, being no longer considered worthy to retain it.

It is but justice to Mr Eyre to give in his own words some remarks which he has thought it
right to make, with reference to what he has recorded of the conduct of that unhappy regiment:--

     "In the course of this narrative, I have been compelled by
     stern truth to note down facts nearly affecting the honour and
     interests of a British regiment. It may, or rather I fear it
     must, inevitably happen, that my unreserved statements of the
     Cabul occurrences will prove unacceptable to many, whose
     private or public feelings are interested in glossing over or
     suppressing the numerous errors committed and censures
     deservedly incurred. But my heart tells me that no paltry
     motives of rivalry or malice influence my pen; rather a sincere
     and honest desire to benefit the public service, by pointing
     out the rocks on which our reputation was wrecked, the means by
     which our honour was sullied, and our Indian empire endangered,
     as a warning to future actors in similar scenes. In a word, I
     believe that more good is likely to ensue from the publication
     of the whole unmitigated truth, than from a mere garbled
     statement of it. A kingdom has been lost--an army slain;--and
     surely, if I can show that, had we been but true to ourselves,
     and had vigorous measures been adopted, the result might have
     been widely different, I shall have written an instructive
     lesson to rulers and subjects, to generals and armies, and
     shall not have incurred in vain the disapprobation of the
     self-interested or the proud."

The Envoy having again appealed to the General, again received an answer, stating the impossibility
of holding out, and recommending that the Envoy should lose no time in entering into negotiations.
This letter was countersigned by Brigadiers Shelton and Anquetil, and Colonel Chambers.

On the 11th December, the Envoy, accompanied by Captains Lawrence, Trevor, and Mackenzie, and
a few troopers, went out by agreement to meet the chiefs on the plain towards the Seah Sung
hills. A conciliatory address from the Envoy was met by professions of personal esteem and
approbation of the views he had laid before them, and of gratitude for the manner in which
the Ameer Dost Mahomed Khan had been treated. The Envoy then read to them a sketch of the proposed
treaty, which was to the following effect:--

     "That the British should evacuate Affghanistan, including
     Candahar, Ghuznee, Cabul, Jellalabad, and all the other
     stations absolutely within the limits of the country so called;
     that they should be permitted to return not only unmolested to
     India, but that supplies of every description should be
     afforded them in their road thither, certain men of consequence
     accompanying them as hostages; that the Ameer Dost Mahomed
     Khan, his family, and every Affghan now in exile for political
     offences, should be allowed to return to their country; that
     Shah Shoojah and his family should be allowed the option of
     remaining at Cabul, or proceeding with the British troops to
     Loodiana, in either case receiving from the Affghan Government
     a pension of one lac of rupees per annum; that means of
     transport, for the conveyance of our baggage, stores, &c.,
     including that required by the royal family, in case of their
     adopting the latter alternative, should be furnished by the
     existing Affghan Government: that an amnesty should be granted
     to all those who had made themselves obnoxious on account of
     their attachment to Shah Shoojah and his allies, the British;
     that all prisoners should be released; that no British force
     should be ever again sent into Affghanistan, unless called for
     by the Affghan government, between whom and the British nation
     perpetual friendship should be established on the sure
     foundation of mutual good offices."

After some objections on the part of Mahomed Akber Khan, the terms were agreed to, and it was
further arranged that provisions should be supplied to our troops, and that they should evacuate
the cantonment in three days.

Preparations were immediately commenced for the retreat. Arms were ordered to be distributed
from the stores, now about to be abandoned, to some of the camp-followers, and such of the
soldiers as might require them; and a disgraceful scene of confusion and tumult followed, which
showed the fearful extent to which the army was disorganized.

The troops in the Bala Hissar were moved into cantonments, not without a foretaste of what
they had to expect on their march to Jellalabad, under the safe conduct of Akber Khan.

The demands of the chiefs now rose from day to day. They refused to supply provisions until
we should further assure them of our sincerity, by giving up every fort in the immediate vicinity
of the cantonment. The troops were accordingly withdrawn, the forts were immediately occupied
by the Affghans, and the cantonment thus placed at their mercy. On the 18th, the promised cattle
for carriage had not yet been supplied, and a heavy fall of snow rendered the situation of
the troops more desperate. On the 19th, the Envoy wrote an order for the evacuation of Ghuznee.
On the 20th, the Envoy had another interview with the chiefs, who now demanded that a portion
of the guns and ammunition should be given up. This also was agreed to. At this stage of the
proceedings, Lieutenant Sturt of the engineers proposed to the General to break off the treaty,
and march forthwith to Jellalabad; but the proposal was not approved. The arrangements for
giving effect to the treaty were still carried on; and the Envoy again met Akber Khan and Osman
Khan on the plain, when Captains Conolly and Airey were given up as hostages, and the Envoy
sent his carriage and horses, and a pair of pistols, as presents to Akber Khan, who further
demanded an Arab horse, the property of Captain Grant, assistant adjutant-general:--

     "Late in the evening of the 22d December," (says Capt.
     Mackenzie, in a letter to Lieut. Eyre,) "Capt. James Skinner,
     who, after having been concealed in Cabul during the greater
     part of the siege, had latterly been the guest of Mahomed
     Akber, arrived in cantonments, accompanied by Mahomed Sudeeq
     Khan, a first cousin of Mahomed Akber, and by Sirwar Khan, the
     Arhanee merchant, who, in the beginning of the campaign, had
     furnished the army with camels, and who had been much in the
     confidence of Sir A. Burnes, being, in fact, one of our
     stanchest friends. The two latter remained in a different
     apartment, while Skinner dined with the Envoy. During dinner,
     Skinner jestingly remarked that he felt as if laden with
     combustibles, being charged with a message from Mahomed Akber
     to the Envoy of a most portentous nature.

     "Even then I remarked that the Envoy's eye glanced eagerly
     towards Skinner with an expression of hope. In fact, he was
     like a drowning man catching at straws. Skinner, however,
     referred him to his Affghan companions, and after dinner the
     four retired into a room by themselves. My knowledge of what
     there took place is gained from poor Skinner's own relation, as
     given during my subsequent captivity with him in Akber's house.
     Mahomed Sudeeq disclosed Mahomed Akber's proposition to the
     Envoy, which was, that the following day Sir William should
     meet him (Mahomed Akber) and a few of his immediate friends,
     viz. the chiefs of the Eastern Giljyes, outside the
     cantonments, when a final agreement should be made, so as to be
     fully understood by both parties; that Sir William should have
     a considerable body of troops in readiness, which, on a given
     signal, were to join with those of Mahomed Akber and the
     Giljyes, assault and take Mahmood Khan's fort, and secure the
     person of Ameenoolah. At this stage of the proposition Mahomed
     Sudeeq signified that, for a certain sum of money, the head of
     Ameenoolah should be presented to the Envoy; but from this Sir
     William shrunk with abhorrence, declaring that it was neither
     his custom nor that of his country to give a price for blood.
     Mahomed Sudeeq then went on to say, that, after having subdued
     the rest of the khans, the English should be permitted to
     remain in the country eight months longer, so as to save their
     purdah, (veil, or credit,) but that they were then to
     evacuate Affghanistan, as if of their own accord; that Shah
     Shoojah was to continue king of the country, and that Mahomed
     Akber was to be his wuzeer. As a further reward for his
     (Mahomed Akber's) assistance, the British Government were to
     pay him thirty lacs of rupees, and four lacs of rupees per
     annum during his life! To this extraordinary and wild proposal,
     Sir William gave ear with an eagerness which nothing can
     account for but the supposition, confirmed by many other
     circumstances, that his strong mind had been harassed until it
     had in some degree lost its equipoise; and he not only assented
     fully to these terms, but actually gave a Persian paper to that
     effect, written in his own hand, declaring as his motives that
     it was not only an excellent opportunity to carry into effect
     the real wishes of Government--which were to evacuate the
     country with as much credit to ourselves as possible--but that
     it would give England time to enter into a treaty with Russia,
     defining the bounds beyond which neither were to pass in
     Central Asia. So ended this fatal conference, the nature and
     result of which, contrary to his usual custom, Sir William
     communicated to none of those who, on all former occasions,
     were fully in his confidence, viz. Trevor, Lawrence, and
     myself. It seemed as if he feared that we might insist on the
     impracticability of the plan, which he must have studiously
     concealed from himself. All the following morning his manner
     was distracted and hurried, in a way that none of us had ever
     before witnessed.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "After breakfast, Trevor, Lawrence, and myself were summoned to
     attend the Envoy during his conference with Mahomed Akber Khan.
     I found him alone, when, for the first time, he disclosed to me
     the nature of the transaction he was engaged in. I immediately
     warned him that it was a plot against him. He replied hastily,
     'A plot! let me alone for that--trust me for that!' and I
     consequently offered no further remonstrance. Sir William then
     arranged with General Elphinstone that the 54th regiment, under
     Major Ewart, should be held in readiness for immediate service.
     The Shah's 6th, and two guns, were also warned."

Sir W. Macnaghten, halting the troopers of the escort, advanced about 500 or 600 yards from
the eastern rampart of the cantonment, and there awaited Akber Khan and his party:--

     "Close by where some hillocks, on the further side of which
     from the cantonment a carpet was spread where the snow lay
     least thick, and there the khans and Sir William sat down to
     hold their conference. Men talk of presentiment; I suppose it
     was something of the kind which came over me, for I could
     scarcely prevail upon myself to quit my horse. I did so,
     however, and was invited to sit down among the Sirdars. After
     the usual salutations, Mahomed Akber commenced business by
     asking the Envoy if he was perfectly ready to carry into effect
     the proposition of the preceding night? The Envoy replied, 'Why
     not?' My attention was then called off by an old Affghan
     acquaintance of mine, formerly chief of the Cabul police, by
     name Gholam Moyun-ood-deen. I rose from my recumbent posture,
     and stood apart with him conversing. I afterwards remembered
     that my friend betrayed much anxiety as to where my pistols
     were, and why I did not carry them on my person. I answered,
     that although I wore my sword for form, it was not necessary to
     be armed cap-à-pie. His discourse was also full of
     extravagant compliments, I suppose for the purpose of lulling
     me to sleep. At length my attention was called off from what he
     was saying, by observing that a number of men, armed to the
     teeth, had gradually approached to the scene of conference, and
     were drawing round in a sort of circle. This Lawrence and
     myself pointed out to some of the chief men, who affected at
     first to drive them off with whips; but Mahomed Akber observed,
     that it was of no consequence, as they were in the secret. I did not
     see what became of Trevor, but Lawrence was dragged past me by
     several Affghans, whom I saw wrest his weapons from him. Up to
     this moment I was so engrossed in observing what was taking
     place, that I actually was not aware that my own right arm was
     mastered, that my urbane friend held a pistol to my temple, and
     that I was surrounded by a circle of Ghazees, with drawn swords
     and cocked juzails. Resistance was in vain, so, listening to
     the exhortations of Gholam Moyun-ood-deen, which were enforced
     by the whistling of divers bullets over my head, I hurried
     through the snow with him to the place where his horse was
     standing, being despoiled en route of my sabre, and narrowly
     escaping divers attempts made on my life. As I mounted behind
     my captor, now my energetic defender, the crowd increased
     around us, the cries of 'Kill the Kafir' became more vehement,
     and, although we hurried on at a fast canter, it was with the
     utmost difficulty Gholam Moyun-ood-deen, although assisted by
     one or two friends or followers, could ward off and avoid the
     sword-cuts aimed at me, the rascals being afraid to fire lest
     they should kill my conductor. Indeed he was obliged to wheel
     his horse round once, and taking off his turban, (the last
     appeal a Mussulman can make,) to implore them for God's sake to
     respect the life of his friend. At last, ascending a slippery
     bank, the horse fell. My cap had been snatched off, and I now
     received a heavy blow on the head from a bludgeon, which
     fortunately did not quite deprive me of my senses. I had
     sufficient sense left to shoot a-head of the fallen horse,
     where my protector with another man joined me, and clasping me
     in their arms, hurried me towards the wall of Mahomed Khan's
     fort. How I reached the spot where Mahomed Akber was receiving
     the gratulations of the multitude I know not, but I remember a
     fanatic rushing on me, and twisting his hand in my collar until
     I became exhausted from suffocation. I must do Mahomed Akber
     the Justice to say, that, finding the Ghazees bent on my
     slaughter, even after I had reached his stirrup, he drew his
     sword and laid about him right manfully, for my conductor and
     Meerza Bàoodeen Khan were obliged to press me up against the
     wall, covering me with their own bodies, and protesting that no
     blow should reach me but through their persons.

     "Pride, however, overcame Mahomed Akber's sense of courtesy,
     when he thought I was safe, for he then turned round to me, and
     repeatedly said, in a tone of triumphant derision, 'Shuma
     moolk-i-ma me geered!' (You'll seize my country, will
     you!)--he then rode off, and I was hurried towards the gate of
     the fort. Here new dangers awaited me, for Moolah Momin, fresh
     from the slaughter of poor Trevor, who was killed riding close
     behind me--Sultan Jan having the credit of having given him the
     first sabre-cut--stood here with his followers, whom he
     exhorted to slay me, setting them the example by cutting
     fiercely at me himself. Fortunately a gun stood between us, but
     still he would have effected his purpose, had not Mahomed Shah
     Khan at that instant, with some followers, come to my
     assistance. These drew their swords in my defence, the chief
     himself throwing his arm round my neck, and receiving on his
     shoulder a cut aimed by Moollah Momin at my head. During the
     bustle I pushed forward into the fort, and was immediately
     taken to a sort of dungeon, where I found Lawrence safe, but
     somewhat exhausted by his hideous ride and the violence he had
     sustained, although unwounded. Here the Giljye chiefs, Mahomed
     Shah Khan, and his brother Dost Mahomed Khan, presently joined
     us, and endeavoured to cheer up our flagging spirits, assuring
     us that the Envoy and Trevor were not dead, but on the contrary
     quite well. They stayed with us during the afternoon, their
     presence being absolutely necessary for our protection. Many
     attempts were made by the fanatics to force the door to
     accomplish our destruction. Others spit at us and abused us
     through a small window, through which one fellow levelled a
     blunderbuss at us, which was struck up by our keepers and
     himself thrust back. At last Ameenoollah made his appearance,
     and threatened us with instant death. Some of his people most
     officiously advanced to make good his word, until pushed back
     by the Giljye chiefs, who remonstrated with this iniquitous old
     monster, their master, whom they persuaded to relieve us from
     his hateful presence. During the afternoon, a human hand was
     held up in mockery to us at the window. We said that it had
     belonged to an European, but were not aware at the time that it
     was actually the hand of the poor Envoy. Of all the Mahomedans
     assembled in the room discussing the events of the day, one
     only, an old moollah, openly and fearlessly condemned the acts
     of his brethren, declaring that the treachery was abominable,
     and a disgrace to Islam. At night they brought us food, and
     gave us each a postheen to sleep on. At midnight we were
     awakened to go to the house of Mahomed Akber in the city.
     Mahomed Shah Khan then, with the meanness common to all
     Affghans of rank, robbed Lawrence of his watch, while his
     brother did me a similar favour. I had been plundered of my
     rings and every thing else previously, by the understrappers.

     "Reaching Mahomed Akber's abode, we were shown into the room
     where he lay in bed. He received us with great outward show of
     courtesy, assuring us of the welfare of the Envoy and Trevor,
     but there was a constraint in his manner for which I could not
     account. We were shortly taken to another apartment, where we
     found Skinner, who had returned, being on parole, early in the
     morning. Doubt and gloom marked our meeting, and the latter was
     fearfully deepened by the intelligence which we now received
     from our fellow-captive of the base murder of Sir William and
     Trevor. He informed us that the head of the former had been
     carried about the city in triumph. We of course spent a
     miserable night. The next day we were taken under a strong
     guard to the house of Zuman Khan, where a council of the Khans
     were being held. Here we found Captains Conolly and Airey, who
     had some days previously been sent to the hurwah's house as
     hostage for the performance of certain parts of the treaty
     which was to have been entered into. A violent discussion took
     place, in which Mahomed Akber bore the most prominent part. We
     were vehemently accused of treachery, and every thing that was
     bad, and told that the whole of the transactions of the night
     previous had been a trick of Mahomed Akber, and Ameenoollah, to
     ascertain the Envoy's sincerity. They declared that they would
     now grant us no terms, save on the surrender of the whole of
     the married families as hostages, all the guns, ammunition, and
     treasure. At this time Conolly told me that on the preceding
     day the Envoy's head had been paraded about in the court-yard;
     that his and Trevor's bodies had been hung up in the public
     bazar, or chouk; and that it was with the greatest difficulty
     that the old hurwah, Zuman Khan, had saved him and Airey from
     being murdered by a body of fanatics, who had attempted to rush
     into the room where they were. Also, that previous to the
     arrival of Lawrence, Skinner, and myself, Mahomed Akber had
     been relating the events of the preceding day to the Jeerga
     or council, and that he had unguardedly avowed having, while
     endeavouring to force the Envoy either to mount on horseback or
     to move more quickly, struck him; and that, seeing Conolly's
     eyes fastened upon him with an expression of intense
     indignation, he had altered the phrase and said, 'I mean I
     pushed him.' After an immense deal of gabble, a proposal for
     a renewal of the treaty, not, however, demanding all the guns,
     was determined to be sent to the cantonments, and Skinner,
     Lawrence, and myself were marched back to Akber's house,
     enduring en route all manner of threats and insults. Here we
     were closely confined in an inner apartment, which was indeed
     necessary for our safety. That evening we received a visit from
     Mahomed Akber, Sultan Jan, and several other Affghans. Mahomed
     Akber exhibited his double-barrelled pistols to us, which he
     had worn the previous day, requesting us to put their locks to
     rights, something being amiss. Two of the barrels had been
     recently discharged, which he endeavoured in a most confused
     way to account for by saying, that he had been charged by a
     havildar of the escort, and had fired both barrels at him. Now
     all the escort had run away without even attempting to charge,
     the only man who advanced to the rescue having been a Hindoo
     Jemadar of Chuprassies, who was instantly cut to pieces by the
     assembled Ghazees. This defence he made without any accusation
     on our part, betraying the anxiety of a liar to be believed. On
     the 26th, Captain Lawrence was taken to the house of
     Ameenoollah, whence he did not return to us. Captain Skinner
     and myself remained in Akber's house until the 30th. During
     this time we were civilly treated, and conversed with numbers
     of Affghan gentlemen who came to visit us. Some of them
     asserted that the Envoy had been murdered by the unruly
     soldiery. Others could not deny that Akber himself was the
     assassin. For two or three days we had a fellow-prisoner in
     poor Sirwar Khan, who had been deceived throughout the whole
     matter, and out of whom they were then endeavouring to screw
     money. He, of course, was aware from his countrymen, that not
     only had Akber committed the murder, but that he protested to
     the Ghazees that he gloried in the deed. On one occasion a
     moonshee of Major Pottinger, who had escaped from Charekhar,
     named Mohun Beer, came direct from the presence of Mahomed
     Akber to visit us. He told us that Mahomed Akber had begun to
     see the impolicy of having murdered the Envoy, which fact he
     had just avowed to him, shedding many tears, either of
     pretended remorse or of real vexation at having committed
     himself. On several occasions Mahomed Akber personally, and by
     deputy, besought Skinner and myself to give him advice as to
     how he was to extricate himself from the dilemma in which he
     was placed, more than once endeavouring to excuse himself for
     not having effectually protected the Envoy, by saying that Sir
     William had drawn a sword-stick upon him. It seems that
     meanwhile the renewed negotiations with Major Pottinger, who
     had assumed the Envoy's place in cantonments, had been brought
     to a head; for on the night of the 30th, Akber furnished me
     with an Affghan dress, (Skinner already wore one,) and sent us
     both back to cantonments. Several Affghans, with whom I fell in
     afterwards, protested to me that they had seen Mahomed Akber
     shoot the Envoy with his own hand; amongst them Meerza Báoodeen
     Khan, who, being an old acquaintance, always retained a
     sneaking kindness for the English.

     "I am, my dear Eyre, yours very truly,

     "C. MACKENZIE.

     "Cabul, 29th July, 1842."

The negotiations were now renewed by Major Pottinger, who had been requested by General Elphinstone
to assume the unenviable office of political agent and adviser.

     "The additional clauses in the treaty now proposed for our
     renewed acceptance were--1st. That we should leave behind our
     guns, excepting six. 2nd. That we should immediately give up
     all our treasures. 3d. That the hostages should be all
     exchanged for married men, with their wives and families. The
     difficulties of Major Pottinger's position will be readily
     perceived, when it is borne in mind that he had before him the
     most conclusive evidence of the late Envoy's ill-advised
     intrigue with Mahomed Akber Khan, in direct violation of that
     very treaty which was now once more tendered for
     consideration."

A sum of fourteen lacs of rupees, about L.140,000, was also demanded, which was said to be
payable to the several chiefs on the promise of the late Envoy.

Major Pottinger, at a council of war convened by the General, "declared his conviction that
no confidence could be placed in any treaty formed with the Affghan chiefs; that, under such
circumstances, to bind the hands of the Government by promising to evacuate the country, and
to restore the deposed Ameer, and to waste, moreover, so much public money merely to save our
own lives and property, would be inconsistent with the duty we owed to our country and the
Government we served; and that the only honourable course would be, either to hold out at Cabul,
or to force our immediate retreat to Jellalabad."

"This however, the officers composing the council, one and all declared to be impracticable,
owing to the want of provisions, the surrender of the surrounding forts, and the insuperable
difficulties of the road at the present season." The new treaty was therefore, forthwith accepted.
The demand of the chiefs, that married officers with their families should be left as hostages,
was successfully resisted. Captains Drummond, Walsh, Warburton, and Webb, were accepted in
their place, and on the 29th went to join Captains Conolly and Airey at the house of Nuwab
Zuman Khan. Lieutenant Haughton and a portion of the sick and wounded, were sent into the city,
and placed under the protection of the chiefs. "Three of the Shah's guns, with the greater
portion of our treasure, were made over during the day, much to the evident disgust of the
soldiery." On the following day, "the remainder of the sick went into the city, Lieutenant
Evans, H.M. 44th foot, being placed in command, and Dr Campbell, 54th native infantry, with
Dr Berwick of the mission, in medical charge of the whole. Two more of the Shah's guns were
given up. It snowed hard the whole day."

"January 5.--Affairs continued in the same unsettled state to this date. The chiefs postponed
our departure from day to day on various pretexts.... Numerous cautions were received from
various well-wishers, to place no confidence in the professions of the chiefs, who had sworn
together to accomplish our entire destruction."

It is not our intention to offer any lengthened comments on these details. They require none.
The facts, if they be correctly stated, speak for themselves; and, for reasons already referred
to, we are unwilling to anticipate the result of the judicial investigation now understood
to be in progress. This much, however, we may be permitted to say, that the traces of fatal
disunion amongst ourselves will, we fear, be made every where apparent. It is notorious that
Sir William Macnaghten and Sir Alexander Burnes were on terms the reverse of cordial. The Envoy
had no confidence in the General. The General was disgusted with the authority the Envoy had
assumed, even in matters exclusively military--and, debilitated by disease, was unable always
to assert his authority even in his own family. The arrival of General Shelton in the cantonments
does not appear to have tended to restore harmony, cordiality, or confidence, or even to have
revived the drooping courage of the troops, or to have renovated the feelings of obedience,
and given effect to the bonds of discipline, which had been too much relaxed. But, even after
admitting all these things, much more still remains to be explained before we can account for
all that has happened--before we can understand how the political authorities came to reject
every evidence of approaching danger, and therefore to be quite unprepared for it when it came.
Why no effort was made on the first day to put down the insurrection: Why, in the arrangements
for the defence of the cantonments, the commisariat fort was neglected, and the other forts
neither occupied nor destroyed: Why almost every detachment that was sent out was too small
to effect its object: Why, with a force of nearly six thousand men, we should never on any
one occasion have had two thousand in the field, and, as in the action at Beymaroo, only one
gun: Why so many orders appear to have been disregarded; why so few were punctually obeyed.

     "At last the fatal morning dawned (the 6th January) which was
     to witness the departure of the Cabul force from the
     cantonments in which it had endured a two months' siege.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Dreary indeed was the scene over which, with drooping spirits
     and dismal forebodings, we had to bend our unwilling steps.
     Deep snow covered every inch of mountain and plain with one
     unspotted sheet of dazzling whiteness; and so intensely bitter
     was the cold, as to penetrate and defy the defences of the
     warmest clothing."

Encumbered with baggage, crowded with 12,000 camp-followers, and accompanied by many helpless
women and children, of all ranks and of all ages--with misery before, and death behind, and
treachery all around them--with little hope of successful resistance if attacked, without tents
enough to cover them, and without food or fuel for the march, 4500 fighting men, with nine
guns, set out on this march of death.

At 9 A.M. the advance moved out, but was delayed for upwards of an hour at the river, having
found the temporary bridge incomplete; and it was noon ere the road was clear for the main
column, which, with its long train of loaded camels, continued to pour out of the gate until
the evening, by which time thousands of Affghans thronged the area of the cantonment rending
the air with exulting cries, and committing every kind of atrocity. Before the rearguard commenced
its march it was night; but by the light of the burning buildings the Affghan marksmen laid
Lieut. Hardyman, and fifty rank and file, lifeless on the snow. The order of march was soon
lost; scores of sepoys and camp-followers sat down in despair to perish, and it was 2 A.M.
before the rearguard reached the camp at Bygram, a distance of five miles. Here all was confusion;
different regiments, with baggage, camp-followers, camels, and horses, mixed up together. The
cold towards morning became more intense, and thousands were lying on the bare snow, without
shelter, fire, or food. Several died during the night, amongst whom was an European conductor;
and the proportion of those who escaped without frostbites was small. Yet this was but the
beginning of sorrows.

January 7th.--At 8 A.M. the force moved on in the same inextricable confusion. Already nearly
half the sepoys, from sheer inability to keep their ranks, had joined the crowd of non-combatants.
The rearguard was attacked, and much baggage lost, and one of the guns having been overturned,
was taken by the Affghans, whose cavalry charged into the very heart of the column.

Akber Khan said, that the force had been attacked because it had marched contrary to the wish
of the chiefs. He insisted that it should halt, and promised to supply food, forage, and fuel
for the troops, but demanded six more hostages, which were given. These terms having been agreed
to, the firing ceased for the present, and the army encamped at Bootkhak, where the confusion
was indescribable. "Night again," says Lieutenant Eyre, "closed over us, with its attendant
horrors--starvation, cold, exhaustion, death."

At an early hour on the 8th the Affghans commenced firing into the camp; and as they collected
in considerable numbers, Major Thain led the 44th to attack them. In this business the regiment
behaved with a resolution and gallantry worthy of British soldiers. Again Akber Khan demanded
hostages. Again they were given, and again the firing ceased. This seems to prove that Akber
Khan had the power, if he had chosen to exert it, to restrain those tribes. Once more the living
mass of men and animals was put in motion. The frost had so crippled the hands and feet of
the strongest men, as to prostrate their powers and to incapacitate them for service.

The Khoord-Cabul pass, which they were about to enter, is about five miles long, shut in by
lofty hills, and by precipices of 500 or 600 feet in height, whose summits approach one another
in some parts to within about fifty or sixty yards. Down the centre dashed a torrent, bordered
with ice, which was crossed about eight-and-twenty times.

While in this dark and narrow gorge, a hot fire was opened upon the advance, with whom were
several ladies, who, seeing no other chance of safety, galloped forwards, "running the gauntlet
of the enemy's bullets, which whizzed in hundreds about their ears, until they were fairly
out of the pass. Providentially the whole escaped, except Lady Sale, who was slightly wounded
in the arm." Several of Akber Khan's chief adherents exerted themselves in vain to restrain
the Giljyes; and as the crowd moved onward into the thickest of the fire, the slaughter was
fearful. Another horse-artillery gun was abandoned, and the whole of its artillerymen slain,
and some of the children of the officers became prisoners. It is supposed that 3000 souls perished
in the pass, amongst whom were many officers.

     "On the force reaching Khoord-Cabul, snow began to fall, and
     continued till morning. Only four small tents were saved, of
     which one belonged to the General: two were devoted to the
     ladies and children, and one was given up to the sick; but an
     immense number of poor wounded wretches wandered about the camp
     destitute of shelter, and perished during the night. Groans of
     misery and distress assailed the ear from all quarters. We had
     ascended to a still colder climate than we had left behind, and
     we were without tents, fuel, or food: the snow was the only bed
     for all, and of many, ere morning, it proved the
     winding-sheet. It is only marvellous that any should have
     survived that fearful night!

     "January 9th.--Another morning dawned, awakening thousands to
     increased misery; and many a wretched survivor cast looks of
     envy at his comrades, who lay stretched beside him in the
     quiet sleep of death. Daylight was the signal for a renewal of
     that confusion which attended every movement of the force."

Many of the troops and followers moved without orders at 8 A.M., but were recalled by the General,
in consequence of an arrangement with Akber Khan. "This delay, and prolongation of their sufferings
in the snow, of which one more march would have carried them clear, made a very unfavourable
impression on the minds of the native soldiery, who now, for the first time, began very generally
to entertain the idea of deserting." And it is not to be wondered at, that the instinct of
self-preservation should have led them to falter in their fealty when the condition of the
whole army had become utterly hopeless.

Akber Khan now proposed that the ladies and children should be made over to his care; and,
anxious to save them further suffering, the General gave his consent to the arrangement, permitting
their husbands and the wounded officers to accompany them.

     "Up to this time scarcely one of the ladies had tasted a meal
     since leaving Cabul. Some had infants a few days old at the
     breast, and were unable to stand without assistance. Others
     were so far advanced in pregnancy, that, under ordinary
     circumstances, a walk across a drawing-room would have been an
     exertion; yet these helpless women, with their young families,
     had already been obliged to rough it on the backs of camels,
     and on the tops of the baggage yaboos: those who had a horse to
     ride, or were capable of sitting on one, were considered
     fortunate indeed. Most had been without shelter since quitting
     the cantonment--their servants had nearly all deserted or been
     killed--and, with the exception of Lady Macnaghten and Mrs
     Trevor, they had lost all their baggage, having nothing in the
     world left but the clothes on their backs; those, in the case
     of some of the invalids, consisted of night dresses in which
     they had started from Cabul in their litters. Under such
     circumstances, a few more hours would probably have seen some
     of them stiffening corpses. The offer of Mahomed Akber was
     consequently their only chance of preservation. The husbands,
     better clothed and hardy, would have infinitely preferred
     taking their chance with the troops; but where is the man who
     would prefer his own safety, when he thought he could by his
     presence assist and console those near and dear to him?

     "It is not, therefore, wonderful, that from persons so
     circumstanced the General's proposal should have met with
     little opposition, although it was a matter of serious doubt
     whether the whole were not rushing into the very jaws of death,
     by placing themselves at the mercy of a man who had so lately
     imbrued his hands in the blood of a British envoy, whom he had
     lured to destruction by similar professions of peace and
     good-will."

Anticipating an attack, the troops paraded to repel it, and it was now found that the 44th
mustered only 100 files, and the native infantry regiments about sixty each. "The promises
of Mahomed Akber to provide food and fuel were unfulfilled, and another night of starvation
and cold consigned more victims to a miserable death."

January 10.--At break of day all was again confusion, every one hurrying to the front, and
dreading above all things to be left in the rear. The Europeans were the only efficient men
left, the Hindostanees having suffered so severely from the frost in their hands and feet,
that few could hold a musket, much less pull a trigger. The enemy had occupied the rocks above
the gorge, and thence poured a destructive fire upon the column as it slowly advanced. Fresh
numbers fell at every volley. The sepoys, unable to use their arms, cast them away, and, with
the followers, fled for their lives.

     "The Affghans now rushed down upon their helpless and
     unresisting victims sword in hand, and a general massacre took
     place. The last small remnant of the native infantry regiments
     were here scattered and destroyed; and the public treasure,
     with all the remaining baggage, fell into the hands of the
     enemy. Meanwhile, the advance, after pushing through the Tungee
     with great loss, had reached Kubbur-i-Jubbar, about five miles
     a-head, without more opposition. Here they halted to enable the
     rear to join, but, from the few stragglers who from time to
     time came up, the astounding truth was brought to light, that
     of all who had that morning marched from Khoord-Cabul they were
     almost the sole survivors, nearly the whole of the main and
     rear columns having been cut off and destroyed. About 50
     horse-artillerymen, with one twelve-pounder howitzer, 70 files
     H.M.'s 44th, and 150 cavalry troopers, now composed the whole
     Cabul force; but, notwithstanding the slaughter and dispersion
     that had taken place, the camp-followers still formed a
     considerable body."

Another remonstrance was now addressed to Akber Khan. He declared, in reply, his inability
to restrain the Giljyes. As the troops entered a narrow defile at the foot of the Huft Kotul,
they found it strewn with the dead bodies of their companions. A destructive fire was maintained
on the troops from the heights on either side, and fresh numbers of dead and wounded lined
the course of the stream. "Brigadier Shelton commanded the rear with a few Europeans, and but
for his persevering energy and unflinching fortitude in repelling the assailants, it is probable
the whole would have been there sacrificed." They encamped in the Tezeen valley, having lost
12,000 men since leaving Cabul; fifteen officers had been killed and wounded in this day's march.

After resting three hours, they marched, under cover of the darkness, at seven P.M. Here the
last gun was abandoned, and with it Dr Cardew, whose zeal and gallantry had endeared him to
the soldiers; and a little further on Dr Duff was left on the road in a state of utter exhaustion.

     "Bodies of the neighbouring tribes were by this time on the
     alert, and fired at random from the heights, it being
     fortunately too dark for them to aim with precision; but the
     panic-stricken camp-followers now resembled a herd of startled
     deer, and fluctuated backwards and forwards, en masse, at
     every shot, blocking up the entire road, and fatally retarding
     the progress of the little body of soldiers who, under
     Brigadier Shelton, brought up the rear.

     "At Burik-àb a heavy fire was encountered by the hindmost from
     some caves near the road-side, occasioning fresh disorder,
     which continued all the way to Kutter-Sung, where the advance
     arrived at dawn of day, and awaited the junction of the rear,
     which did not take place till 8 A.M."

January 11.-- ...

     "From Kutter-Sung to Jugdulluk it was one continued conflict;
     Brigadier Shelton, with his brave little band in the rear,
     holding overwhelming numbers in check, and literally performing
     wonders. But no efforts could avail to ward off the withering
     fire of juzails, which from all sides assailed the crowded
     column, lining the road with bleeding carcasses. About three
     P.M. the advance reached Jugdulluk, and took up its position
     behind some ruined walls that crowned a height by the
     road-side. To show an imposing front, the officers extended
     themselves in line, and Captain Grant, assistant
     adjutant-general, at the same moment received a wound in the
     face. From this eminence they cheered their comrades under
     Brigadier Shelton in the rear, as they still struggled their
     way gallantly along every foot of ground, perseveringly
     followed up by their merciless enemy, until they arrived at
     their ground. But even here rest was denied them; for the
     Affghans, immediately occupying two hills which commanded the
     position, kept up a fire from which the walls of the enclosure
     afforded but a partial shelter.

     "The exhausted troops and followers now began to suffer greatly
     from thirst, which they were unable to satisfy. A tempting
     stream trickled near the foot of the hill, but to venture down
     to it was certain death. Some snow that covered the ground was
     eagerly devoured, but increased, instead of alleviating, their
     sufferings. The raw flesh of three bullocks, which had
     fortunately been saved, was served out to the soldiers, and
     ravenously swallowed."

About half-past three Akber Khan sent for Capt. Skinner, who promptly obeyed the call, hoping
still to effect some arrangement for the preservation of those who survived. The men now threw
themselves down, hoping for a brief repose, but the enemy poured volleys from the heights into
the enclosures in rapid succession. Captain Bygrave, with about fifteen brave Europeans, sallied
forth, determined to drive the enemy from the heights or perish in the attempt. They succeeded;
but the enemy, who had fled before them, returned and resumed their fatal fire. At five P.M.
Captain Skinner returned with a message from Akber Khan, requesting the presence of the General
at a conference, and demanding Brigadier Shelton and Capt. Johnson as hostages for the surrender
of Jellalabad. The troops saw the departure of these officers with despair, feeling assured
that these treacherous negotiations "were preparatory to fresh sacrifices of blood." The General
and his companions were received with every outward token of kindness, and they were supplied
with food, but they were not permitted to return. The Sirdar put the General off with promises;
and at seven P.M. on the 12th, firing being heard, it was ascertained that the troops, impatient
of further delay, had actually moved off. Before their departure Captain Skinner had been treacherously
shot. They had been exposed during the whole day to the fire of the enemy--"sally after sally
had been made by the Europeans, bravely led by Major Thain, Captain Bygrave, and Lieutenants
Wade and Macartney, but again and again the enemy returned to worry and destroy. Night came,
and all further delay in such a place being useless, the whole sallied forth, determined to
pursue the route to Jellalabad at all risks."

The sick and the wounded were necessarily abandoned to their fate. For some time the Giljyes
seemed not to be on the alert; but in the defile, at the top of the rise, further progress
was obstructed by barriers formed of prickly trees. This caused great delay, and "a terrible
fire was poured in from all quarters--a massacre even worse than that of the Tunga Tarikee[24]
commenced, the Affghans rushing in furiously upon the pent-up crowd of troops and followers,
and committing wholesale slaughter. A miserable remnant managed to clear the barriers. Twelve
officers, amongst whom was Brigadier Anquetil, were killed. Upwards of forty others succeeded
in pushing through, about twelve of whom, being pretty well mounted, rode on a-head of the
rest with the few remaining cavalry, intending to make the best of their way to Jellalabad."

     [24] Strait of Darkness.

The country now became more open--the Europeans dispersed, in small parties under different
officers. The Giljyes were too much occupied in plundering the dead to pursue them, but they
were much delayed by the amiable anxiety of the men to carry on their wounded comrades. The
morning of the 13th dawned as they approached Gundamuk, revealing to the enemy the insignificance
of their numerical strength; and they were compelled, by the vigorous assaults of the Giljyes,
to take up a defensive position on a height to the left of the road, "where they made a resolute
stand, determined to sell their lives at the dearest possible price. At this time they could
only muster about twenty muskets." An attempt to effect an amicable arrangement terminated
in a renewal of hostilities, and "the enemy marked off man after man, and officer after officer,
with unerring aim. Parties of Affghans rushed up at intervals to complete the work of extermination,
but were as often driven back by the still dauntless handful of invincibles. At length, all
being wounded more or less, a final onset of the enemy, sword in hand, terminated the unequal
struggle and completed the dismal tragedy." Captain Souter, who was wounded, and three or four
privates, were spared and led away captive. Major Griffiths and Captain Blewitt, having descended
to confer with the enemy, had been previously led off. Of the twelve officers who had gone
on in advance eleven were destroyed, and Dr Brydon alone of the whole Cabul force reached Jellalabad.

"Such was the memorable retreat of the British army from Cabul, which, viewed in all its circumstances--in
the military conduct which preceded and brought about such a consummation, the treachery, disaster,
and suffering which accompanied it--is, perhaps, without a parallel in history."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EVACUATION OF AFFGHANISTAN.

Since the day when Lord Auckland, by his famous proclamation in October 1838, "directed the
assemblage of a British force for service across the Indus," we have never ceased to denounce
the invasion and continued occupation of Affghanistan as equally unjust and impolitic[25]--unjust,
as directed against a people whose conduct had afforded us no legitimate grounds of hostility,
and against a ruler whose only offence was, that he had accepted[26] the proffer from another
quarter of that support and alliance which we had denied to his earnest entreaty--and impolitic,
as tending not only to plunge us into an endless succession of ruinous and unprofitable warfare,
but to rouse against us an implacable spirit of enmity, in a nation which had hitherto shown
every disposition to cultivate amicable relations with our Anglo-Indian Government. In all
points, our anticipations have been fatally verified. After more than two years consumed in
unavailing efforts to complete the reduction of the country, our army of occupation was at
last overwhelmed by the universal and irresistible outbreak of an indignant and fanatic population;
and the restored monarch, Shah-Shoojah, ("whose popularity throughout Affghanistan had been
proved to the Governor-general by the strong and unanimous testimony of the best authorities")
perished, as soon as he lost the protection of foreign bayonets, by the hands of his outraged
countrymen.[27]

     [25] See the articles "Persia, Affghanistan, and India," in
     Jan. 1839--"Khiva, Central Asia, and Cabul," in April
     1840--"Results of our Affghan Conquests," in Aug.
     1841--"Affghanistan and India," in July 1842.

     [26] It now seems even doubtful whether the famous letter of
     Dost Mohammed to the Emperor of Russia, which constituted the
     gravamen of the charge against him, was ever really written,
     or at least with his concurrence.--Vide "Report of the
     Colonial Society on the Affghan War," p. 35.

     [27] The particulars of Shah-Shoojah's fate, which were unknown
     when we last referred to the subject, have been since
     ascertained. After the retreat of the English from Cabul, he
     remained for some time secluded in the Bala-Hissar, observing
     great caution in his intercourse with the insurgent leaders;
     but he was at length prevailed upon, by assurances of loyalty
     and fidelity, (about the middle of April,) to quit the
     fortress, in order to head an army against Jellalabad. He had
     only proceeded, however, a short distance from the city, when
     his litter was fired upon by a party of musketeers placed in
     ambush by a Doorauni chief named Soojah-ed-Dowlah; and the king
     was shot dead on the spot. Such was the ultimate fate of a
     prince, the vicissitudes of whose life almost exceed the
     fictions of romance, and who possessed talents sufficient, in
     more tranquil times, to have given éclat to his reign. During
     his exile at Loodiana, he composed in Persian a curious
     narrative of his past adventures, a version of part of which
     appears in the 30th volume of the Asiatic Journal.

The tottering and unsubstantial phantom of a Doorauni kingdom vanished at once and for ever--and
the only remaining alternative was, (as we stated the case in our number of last July,) "either
to perpetrate a second act of violence and national injustice, by reconquering Affghanistan
for the vindication (as the phrase is) of our military honour, and holding it without disguise
as a province of our empire--or to make the best of a bad bargain, by contenting ourselves
with the occupation of a few posts on the frontier, and leaving the unhappy natives to recover,
without foreign interference, from the dreadful state of anarchy into which our irruption has
thrown them." Fortunately for British interests in the East, the latter course has been adopted.
After a succession of brilliant military triumphs, which, in the words of Lord Ellenborough's
recent proclamation, "have, in one short campaign, avenged our late disasters upon every scene
of past misfortune," the evacuation of the country has been directed--not, however, before
a fortunate chance had procured the liberation of all the prisoners who had fallen into the
power of the Affghans in January last; and ere this time, we trust, not a single British regiment
remains on the bloodstained soil of Affghanistan.

The proclamation above referred to,[28] (which we have given at length at the conclusion of
this article,) announcing these events, and defining the line of policy in future to be pursued
by the Anglo-Indian Government, is in all respects a remarkable document. As a specimen of
frankness and plain speaking, it stands unique in the history of diplomacy; and, accordingly,
both its matter and its manner have been made the subjects of unqualified censure by those
scribes of the Opposition press who, "content to dwell in forms for ever," have accustomed
themselves to regard the mystified protocols of Lord Palmerston as the models of official style.
The Morning Chronicle, with amusing ignorance of the state of the public mind in India, condemns
the Governor-general for allowing it to become known to the natives that the abandonment of
Affghanistan was in consequence of a change of policy! conceiving (we suppose) that our Indian
subjects would otherwise have believed the Cabul disasters to have formed part of the original
plan of the war, and to have veiled some purpose of inscrutable wisdom; while the Globe, (Dec.
3,) after a reluctant admission that "the policy itself of evacuating the country may be wise,"
would fain deprive Lord Ellenborough of the credit of having originated this decisive step,
by an assertion that "we have discovered no proof that a permanent possession of the country
beyond the Indus was contemplated by his predecessor." It would certainly have been somewhat
premature in Lord Auckland to have announced his ultimate intentions on this point while the
country in question was as yet but imperfectly subjugated, or when our troops were subsequently
almost driven out of it; but the views of the then home Government, from which it is to be
presumed that Lord Auckland received his instructions, were pretty clearly revealed in the
House of Commons on the 10th of August last, by one whose authority the Globe, at least, will
scarcely dispute--by Lord Palmerston himself. To prevent the possibility of misconstruction,
we quote the words attributed to the late Foreign Secretary. After drawing the somewhat unwarrantable
inference, from Sir Robert Peel's statement, "that no immediate withdrawal of our troops from
Candahar and Jellalabad was contemplated," that an order had at one time been given for the
abandonment of Affghanistan, he proceeds--"I do trust that her Majesty's Government will not
carry into effect, either immediately or at any future time, the arrangement thus contemplated.
It was all very well when we were in power, and it was suited to party purposes, to run down
any thing we had done, and to represent as valueless any acquisition on which we may have prided
ourselves--it was all very well to raise an outcry against the Affghan expedition, and to undervalue
the great advantages which the possession of the country was calculated to afford us--but I
trust the Government will rise above any consideration of that sort, and that they will give
the matter their fair, dispassionate, and deliberate consideration. I must say, I never was
more convinced of any thing in the whole course of my life--and I may be believed when I speak
my earnest conviction--that the most important interests of this country, both commercial and
political, would be sacrificed, if we were to sacrifice the military possession of the country
of Eastern Affghanistan." Is it in the power of words to convey a clearer admission, that the
pledge embodied in Lord Auckland's manifesto--"to withdraw the British army as soon as the
independence and integrity of Affghanistan should be secured by the establishment of the Shah"--was
in fact mere moonshine: and the real object of the expedition was the conquest of a country
advantageously situated for the defence of our Indian frontier against (as it now appears)
an imaginary invader? Thus Napoleon, in December 1810, alleged "the necessity, in consequence
of the new order of things which has arisen, of new guarantees for the security of my empire,"
as a pretext for that wholesale measure of territorial spoliation in Northern Germany, which,
from the umbrage it gave Russia, proved ultimately the cause of his downfall: but it was reserved
for us of the present day, to hear a British minister avow and justify a violent and perfidious
usurpation on the plea of political expediency. It must indeed be admitted that, in the early
stages of the war, the utter iniquity of the measure met with but faint reprobation from any
party in the state: the nation, dazzled by the long-disused splendours of military glory, was
willing, without any very close enquiry, to take upon trust all the assertions so confidently
put forth on the popularity of Shah-Shoojah, the hostile machinations of Dost Mohammed, and
the philanthropic and disinterested wishes of the Indian Government for (to quote a notable
phrase to which we have more than once previously referred) "the reconstruction of the social
edifice" in Affghanistan. But now that all these subterfuges, flimsy as they were at best,
have been utterly dissipated by this undisguised declaration of Lord Palmerston, that the real
object of the war was to seize and hold the country on our own account, the attempt of the
Globe to claim for Lord Auckland the credit of having from the first contemplated a measure
thus vehemently protested against and disclaimed by the late official leader of his party,
is rather too barefaced to be passed over without comment.

     [28] It is singular that this proclamation was issued on the
     fourth anniversary of Lord Auckland's "Declaration" of Oct. 1,
     1838; and from the same place, Simla.

Without, however, occupying ourselves further in combating the attacks of the Whig press on
this proclamation, which may very well be left to stand on its own merits, we now proceed to
recapitulate the course of the events which have, in a few months, so completely changed the
aspect of affairs beyond the Indus. When we took leave, in July last, of the subject of the
Affghan campaign, we left General Pollock, with the force which had made its way through the
Khyber Pass, still stationary at Jellalabad, for want (as it was said) of camels and other
means of transport: while General Nott, at Candahar, not only held his ground, but victoriously
repulsed in the open field the Affghan insurgents, (as it is the fashion to call them,) who
were headed by the prince Seifdar-Jung, son of Shah Shoojah! and General England, after his
repulse on the 28th of March at the Kojuck Pass, remained motionless at Quettah. The latter
officer (in consequence, as it is said, of peremptory orders from General Nott to meet him
on a given day at the further side of the Pass) was the first to resume active operations;
and on the 28th of April, the works at Hykulzie in the Kojuck, which had been unaccountably
represented on the former occasion as most formidable defences,[29] were carried without loss
or difficulty, and the force continued its march uninterrupted to Candahar. The fort of Khelat-i-Ghiljie,
lying about halfway between Candahar and Ghazni, was at the sane time gallantly and successfully
defended by handful of Europeans and sepoys, till relieved by the advance of a division from
Candahar, which brought off the garrison, and razed the fortifications of the place. Girishk,
the hereditary stronghold of the Barukzye chiefs, about eighty miles west of Candahar, was
also dismantled and abandoned; and all the troops in Western Affghanistan were thus concentrated
under the immediate command of General Nott, whose success in every encounter with the Affghans
continued to be so decisive, that all armed opposition disappeared from the neighbourhood of
Candahar; and the prince Seifdar-Jung, despairing of the cause, of which he had perhaps been
from the first not a very willing supporter, came in and made his submission to the British
commander.

     [29] "The fieldworks believed to be described in the despatch
     as 'consisting of a succession of breastworks, improved by a
     ditch and abattis--the latter being filled with thorns,' turned
     out to be a paltry stone wall, with a cut two feet deep, and of
     corresponding width, to which the designation of ditch was most
     grossly misapplied.... A score or two of active men might have
     completed the work in a few days."--(Letter quoted in the
     Asiatic Journal, Sept., p. 107.) On whom the blame of these
     misrepresentations should be laid--whether on the officer who
     reconnoitred the ground, or on the general who wrote the
     despatch--does not very clearly appear: yet the political agent
     at Quettah was removed from his charge, for not having given
     notice of the construction in his vicinity of works which are
     now proved to have had no existence!

During the progress of these triumphant operations in Western Affghanistan, General Pollock
still lay inactive at Jellalabad; and some abortive attempts were made to negotiate with the
dominant party at Cabul for the release of the prisoners taken the preceding winter. Since
the death of Shah-Shoojah, the throne had been nominally filled by his third son, Futteh-Jung,
the only one of the princes who was on the spot; but all the real power was vested, with the
rank of vizier, in the hands of Akhbar Khan, who had not only possessed himself of the Bala-Hissar
and the treasure of the late king, but had succeeded in recruiting the forces of the Affghan
league, by a reconciliation with Ameen-ullah Khan,[30] the original leader of the outbreak,
with whom he had formerly been at variance. All efforts, however, to procure the liberation
of the captives, on any other condition than the liberation of Dost Mohammed, and the evacuation
of Affghanistan by the English, (as hostages for which they had originally been given,) proved
fruitless; and at length, after more than four months' delay, during which several sharp affairs
had taken place with advanced bodies of the Affghans, General Pollock moved forward with his
whole force, on the 20th of August, against Cabul. This city had again in the mean time become
a scene of tumult and disorder--the Kizilbashes or Persian inhabitants, as well as many of
the native chiefs, resisting the exactions of Akhbar Khan; who, at last, irritated by the opposition
to his measures, imprisoned the titular shah, Futteh-Jung, in the Bala-Hissar; whence he succeeded
after a time in escaping, and made his appearance, in miserable plight, (Sept. 1,) at the British
headquarters at Futtehabad, between Jellalabad and Gundamuck. The advance of the army was constantly
opposed by detached bodies of the enemy, and several spirited skirmishes took place:--till,
on the 13th of September, the main Affghan force, to the number of 16,000 men, under Akhbar
Khan and other leaders, was descried on the heights near Tazeen, (where the slaughter of our
troops had taken place in January,) at the entrance of the formidable defiles called the Huft-Kothul,
or Seven Passes. It is admitted on all hands that in this last struggle, (as they believed,
for independence,) the Affghans fought with most distinguished gallantry, frequently charging
sword in hand upon the bayonets; but their irregular valour eventually gave way before the
discipline of their opponents, and a total rout took place. The chiefs fled in various directions,
"abandoning Cabul to the avengers of British wrongs," who entered the city in triumph on the
15th, and hoisted the British colours on the Bala-Hissar. The principal point now remaining
to be effected was the rescue of the prisoners whom Akhbar Khan had carried off with him in
his flight, with the intention (as was rumoured) of transporting them into Turkestan; but from
this peril they were fortunately delivered by the venality of the chief to whose care they
had been temporarily intrusted; and on the 21st they all reached the camp in safety, with the
exception of Captain Bygrave, who was also liberated, a few days later, by the voluntary act
of Akhbar himself.[31]

     [30] It was this chief whose betrayal or destruction Sir
     William McNaghten is accused, on the authority of General
     Elphinstone's correspondence, of having meditated, on the
     occasion when he met with his own fate. We hope, for the honour
     of the English name, that the memory of the late Resident at
     Cabul may be cleared from this heavy imputation; but he
     certainly cannot be acquitted of having, by his wilful
     blindness and self-sufficiency, contributed to precipitate the
     catastrophe to which he himself fell a victim. In proof of this
     assertion, it is sufficient to refer to the tenor of his
     remarks on the letter addressed to him by Sir A. Burnes on the
     affairs of Cabul, August 7, 1840, which appeared some time
     since in the Bombay Times, and afterwards in the Asiatic
     Journal for October and November last.

     [31] The kindness and humanity which these unfortunate
     detenus experienced from first to last at the hands of
     Akhbar, reflect the highest honour on the character of this
     chief, whom it has been the fashion to hold up to execration as
     a monster of perfidy and cruelty. As a contrast to this conduct
     of the Affghan barbarians, it is worth while to refer to
     Colonel Lindsay's narrative of his captivity in the dungeons of
     Hyder and Tippoo, which has recently appeared in the Asiatic
     Journal, September, December, 1842.

General Nott, meanwhile, in pursuance of his secret orders from the Supreme Government, had
been making preparations for abandoning Candahar; and, on the 7th and 8th of August, the city
was accordingly evacuated, both by his corps and by the division of General England--the Affghan
prince, Seifdar-Jung, being left in possession of the place. The routes of the two commanders
were now separated. General England, with an immense train of luggage, stores, &c., directed
his march through the Kojuck Pass to Quettah, which he reached with little opposition;--while
Nott, with a more lightly-equipped column, about 7000 strong, advanced by Khelat-i-Ghiljie
against Ghazni. This offensive movement appears to have taken the Affghans at first by surprise;
and it was not till he arrived within thirty-eight miles of Ghazni that General Nott found
his progress opposed (August 30) by 12,000 men under the governor, Shams-o-deen Khan, a cousin
of Mohammed Akhbar. The dispersion of this tumultuary array was apparently accomplished (as
far as can be gathered from the extremely laconic despatches of the General) without much difficulty;
and, on the 6th of September, after a sharp skirmish in the environs, the British once more
entered Ghazni. In the city and neighbouring villages were found not fewer than 327 sepoys
of the former garrison, which had been massacred to a man (according to report) immediately
after the surrender; but notwithstanding this evidence of the moderation with which the Affghans
had used their triumph, General Nott, (in obedience, as is said, to the positive tenor of his
instructions,) "directed the city of Ghazni, with the citadel and the whole of its works, to
be destroyed;" and this order appears, from the engineer's report, to have been rigorously
carried into effect. The mace of Mamood Shah Ghaznevi, the first Moslem conqueror of Hindostan,
and the famous sandal-wood portals of his tomb, (once the gates of the great Hindoo temple
at Somnaut,[32]) were carried off as trophies: the ruins of Ghazni were left as a monument
of British vengeance; and General Nott, resuming his march, and again routing Shams-o-deen
Khan at the defiles of Myden, effected his junction with General Pollock, on the 17th of September,
at Cabul; whence the united corps, together mustering 18,000 effective men, were to take the
route for Hindostan through the Punjab early in October.

     [32] The value still attached by the Hindoos to these relics
     was shown on the conclusion of the treaty, in 1832, between
     Shah-Shoojah and Runjeet Singh, previous to the Shah's last
     unaided attempt to recover his throne; in which their
     restoration, in case of his success, was an express
     stipulation.

Such have been the principal events of the brief but brilliant campaign which has concluded
the Affghan war, and which, if regarded solely in a military point of view, must be admitted
to have amply vindicated the lustre of the British arms from the transient cloud cast on them
by the failures and disasters of last winter.

The Affghan tragedy, however, may now, we hope, be considered as concluded, so far as related
to our own participation in its crimes and calamities; but for the Affghans themselves, "left
to create a government in the midst of anarchy," there can be at present little chance of even
comparative tranquillity, after the total dislocation of their institutions and internal relations
by the fearful torrent of war which has swept over the country. The last atonement now in our
power to make, both to the people and the ruler whom we have so deeply injured, as well as
the best course for our own interests, would be at once to release Dost Mohammed from the unmerited
and ignominious confinement to which he has been subjected in Hindostan, and to send him back
in honour to Cabul; where his own ancient partisans, as well as those of his son, would quickly
rally round him; and where his presence and accustomed authority might have some effect in
restraining the crowd of fierce chiefs, who will be ready to tear each other to pieces as soon
as they are released from the presence of the Feringhis. There would thus be at least a possibility
of obtaining a nucleus for the re-establishment of something like good order; while in no other
quarter does there appear much prospect of a government being formed, which might be either
"approved by the Affghans themselves," or "capable of maintaining friendly relations with neighbouring
states." If the accounts received may be depended upon, our troops had scarcely cleared the
Kojuck Pass, on their way from Candahar to the Indus, when that city became the scene of a
contest between the Prince Seifdar-Jung and the Barukzye chiefs in the vicinity; and though
the latter are said to have been worsted in the first instance, there can be little doubt that
our departure will be the signal for the speedy return of the quondam Sirdars, or rulers of
Candahar, (brothers of Dost Mohammed,) who have found an asylum in Persia since their expulsion
in 1839, but who will scarcely neglect so favourable an opportunity for recovering their lost
authority. Yet another competitor may still, perhaps, be found in the same quarter--one whose
name, though sufficiently before the public a few years since, has now been almost forgotten
in the strife of more mighty interests. This is Shah Kamran of Herat, the rumours of whose
death or dethronement prove to have been unfounded, and who certainly would have at this moment
a better chance than he has ever yet had, for regaining at least Candahar and Western Affghanistan.
He was said to be on the point of making the attempt after the repulse of the Persians before
Herat, just before our adoption of Shah-Shoojah; and his title to the crown is at least as
good as that of the late Shah, or any of his sons. It will be strange if this prince, whose
danger from Persia was the original pretext for crossing the Indus, should be the only one
of all the parties concerned, whose condition underwent no ultimate change, through all the
vicissitudes of the tempest which has raged around him.

Nor are the elements of discord less abundant and complicated on the side of Cabul. The defeat
of Tazeen will not, any more than the preceding ones, have annihilated Akhbar Khan and his
confederate chiefs:--they are still hovering in the Kohistan, and will doubtless lose no time
in returning to Cabul as soon as the retreat of the English is ascertained. It is possible,
indeed, that Futteh-Jung (whom the last accounts state to have remained at Cabul when our troops
withdrew, in the hope of maintaining himself on the musnud, and who is said to be the most
acceptable to the Affghans of the four sons[33] of Shah-Shoojah) may be allowed to retain for
a time the title of king; but he had no treasure and few partizans; and the rooted distaste
of the Affghans for the titles and prerogatives of royalty is so well ascertained, that Dost
Mohammed, even in the plenitude of his power, never ventured to assume them. All speculations
on these points, however, can at present amount to nothing more than vague conjecture; the
troubled waters must have time to settle, before any thing can be certainly prognosticated
as to the future destinies of Affghanistan.

     [33] The elder of these princes, Timour, who was governor of
     Candahar during the reign of his father, has accompanied
     General England to Hindostan, preferring, as he says, the life
     of a private gentleman under British protection to the perils
     of civil discord in Affghanistan. Of the second,
     Mohammed-Akhbar, (whose mother is said to be sister of Dost
     Mohammed,) we know nothing;--Futteh-Jung is the third, and was
     intended by Shah-Shoojah for his successor;--Seifdar-Jung, now
     at Candahar, is the youngest.

The kingdom of the Punjab will now become the barrier between Affghanistan and our north-western
frontier in India; and it is said that the Sikhs, already in possession of Peshawer and the
rich plain extending to the foot of the Khyber mountains, have undertaken in future to occupy
the important defiles of this range, and the fort of Ali-Musjid, so as to keep the Affghans
within bounds. It seems to us doubtful, however, whether they will be able to maintain themselves
long, unaided, in this perilous advanced post: though the national animosity which subsists
between them and the Affghans is a sufficient pledge of their good-will for the service--and
their co-operation in the late campaign against Cabul has been rendered with a zeal and promptitude
affording a strong contrast to their lukewarmness at the beginning of the war, when they conceived
its object to be the re-establishment of the monarchy and national unity of their inveterate
foes. But the vigour of the Sikh kingdom, and the discipline and efficiency of their troops,
have greatly declined in the hands of the present sovereign, Shere Singh, who, though a frank
and gallant soldier, has little genius for civil government, and is thwarted and overborne
in his measures by the overweening power of the minister, Rajah Dhian Singh, who originally
rose to eminence by the favour of Runjeet. At present, our information as to the state of politics
in the Punjab is not very explicit, the intelligence from India during several months, having
been almost wholly engrossed by the details of the campaign in Affghanistan; but as far as
can be gathered from these statements, the country has been brought, by the insubordination
of the troops, and the disputes of the Maharajah and his Minister, to a state not far removed
from anarchy. It is said that the fortress of Govindghur, where the vast treasures amassed
by Runjeet are deposited, has been taken possession of by the malecontent faction, and that
Shere Singh has applied for the assistance of our troops to recover it; and the Delhi Gazette
even goes so far as to assert that this prince, "disgusted with the perpetual turmoil in which
he is embroiled, and feeling his incapacity of ruling his turbulent chieftains, is willing
to cede his country to us, and become a pensioner of our Government." But this announcement,
though confidently given, we believe to be at least premature. That the Punjab must inevitably,
sooner or later, become part of the Anglo-Indian empire, either as a subsidiary power, like
the Nizam, or directly, as a province, no one can doubt; but its incorporation at this moment,
in the teeth of our late declaration against any further extension of territory, and at the
time when the Sikhs are zealously fulfilling their engagements as our allies, would be both
injudicious and unpopular in the highest degree. An interview, however, is reported to have
been arranged between Lord Ellenborough and Shere Singh, which is to take place in the course
of the ensuing summer, and at which some definitive arrangements will probably be entered into,
on the future political relations of the two Governments.[34]

     [34] The war in Tibet, to which we alluded in July last,
     between the followers of the Sikh chief Zorawur Singh and the
     Chinese, is still in progress--and the latter are said to be on
     the point of following up their successes by an invasion of
     Cashmeer. As we are now at peace with the Celestial Empire, our
     mediation may be made available to terminate the contest.

The only permanent accession of territory, then, which will result from the Affghan war, will
consist in the extension of our frontier along the whole course of the Sutlej and Lower Indus--"the
limits which nature appears to have assigned to the Indian empire"--and in the altered relations
with some of the native states consequent on these arrangements. As far as Loodeana, indeed,
our frontier on the Sutlej has long been well established, and defined by our recognition of
the Sikh kingdom on the opposite bank;--but the possessions of the chief of Bhawulpoor, extending
on the left bank nearly from Loodeana to the confluence of the Sutlej with the Indus, have
hitherto been almost exempt from British interference;[35] as have also the petty Rajpoot states
of Bikaneer, Jesulmeer, &c., which form oases in the desert intervening between Scinde and
the provinces more immediately under British control. These, it is to be presumed, will now
be summarily taken under the protection of the Anglo-Indian Government:--but more difficulty
will probably be experienced with the fierce and imperfectly subdued tribes of Scindians and
Belooches, inhabiting the lower valley of the Indus;--and, in order to protect the commerce
of the river, and maintain the undisputed command of its course, it will be necessary to retain
a sufficient extent of vantage-ground on the further bank, and to keep up in the country an
amount of force adequate to the effectual coercion of these predatory races. For this purpose,
a place d'armes has been judiciously established at Sukkur, a town which, communicating with
the fort of Bukkur on an island of the Indus, and with Roree on the opposite bank, effectually
secures the passage of the river; and the ports of Kurrachee and Sonmeani on the coast, the
future marts of the commerce of the Indus, have also been garrisoned by British troops.

     [35] Bhawulpoor is so far under British protection, that it was
     saved from the arms of the Sikhs by the treaty with Runjeet
     Singh, which confined him to the other bank of the Sutlej; but
     it has never paid allegiance to the British Government. Its
     territory is of considerable extent, stretching nearly 300
     miles along the river, by 100 miles average breadth; but great
     part of the surface consists of sandy desert.

It has long since been evident[36] that Scinde, by that principle of unavoidable expansion
to which we had so often had occasion to refer, must eventually have been absorbed into the
dominions of the Company; but the process by which it at last came into our hands is so curious
a specimen of our Bonapartean method of dealing with reluctant or refractory neutrals, that
we cannot pass it altogether without notice. Scinde, as well as Beloochistan, had formed part
of the extensive empire subdued by Ahmed Shah, the founder of the Doorani monarchy; but in
the reign of his indolent son Timour, the Affghan yoke was shaken off by the Ameers, or chiefs
of the Belooch family of Talpoor, who, fixing their residences respectively at Hydrabad, Meerpoor,
and Khyrpoor, defied all the efforts of the kings of Cabul to reduce them to submission, though
they more than once averted an invasion by the promise of tribute. It has been rumoured that
Shah-Shoojah, during his long exile, made repeated overtures to the Cabinet of Calcutta for
the cession of his dormant claims to the suzerainté of Scinde, in exchange for an equivalent,
either pecuniary or territorial; but the representations of a fugitive prince, who proposed
to cede what was not in his possession, were disregarded by the rulers of India; and even in
the famous manifesto preceding the invasion of Affghanistan, Lord Auckland announced, that
"a guaranteed independence, on favourable conditions, would be tendered to the Ameers of Scinde."
On the appearance of our army on the border, however, the Ameers demurred, not very unreasonably,
to the passage of this formidable host; and considerable delay ensued, from the imperfect information
possessed by the British commanders of the amount of resistance to be expected; but at last
the country and fortress were forcibly occupied; the seaport of Kurrachee (where alone any
armed opposition was attempted) was bombarded and captured by our ships of war; and a treaty
was imposed at the point of the bayonet on the Scindian rulers, by virtue of which they paid
a contribution of twenty-seven laks of rupees (nearly £300,000) to the expenses of the war,
under the name of arrears of tribute to Shah-Shoojah, acknowledging, at the same time, the
supremacy, not of Shah-Shoojah, but of the English Government! The tolls on the Indus were
also abolished, and the navigation of the river placed, by a special stipulation, wholly under
the control of British functionaries. Since this summary procedure, our predominance in Scinde
has been undisturbed, unless by occasional local commotions; but the last advices state that
the whole country is now "in an insurrectionary state;" and it is fully expected that an attempt
will erelong be made to follow the example of the Affghans, and get rid of the intrusive Feringhis;
in which case, as the same accounts inform us, "the Ameers will be sent as state-prisoners
to Benares, and the territory placed wholly under British administration."

     [36] So well were the Scindians aware of this, that Burnes,
     when ascending the Indus, on his way to Lahore in 1831,
     frequently heard it remarked, "Scinde is now gone, since the
     English have seen the river, which is the road to its
     conquest."

But whatever may be thought of the strict legality of the conveyance, in virtue of which Scinde
has been converted into an integral part of our Eastern empire, its geographical position,
as well as its natural products, will render it a most valuable acquisition, both in a commercial
and political point of view. At the beginning of the present century, the East-India Company
had a factory at Tatta, (the Pattala of the ancients,) the former capital of Scinde, immediately
above the Delta of the Indus; but their agents were withdrawn during the anarchy which preceded
the disruption of the Doorani monarchy. From that period till the late occurrences, all the
commercial intercourse with British India was maintained either by land-carriage from Cutch,
by which mode of conveyance the opium of Malwa and Marwar (vast quantities of which are exported
in this direction) chiefly found its way into Scinde and Beloochistan; or by country vessels
of a peculiar build, with a disproportionately lofty poop, and an elongated bow instead of
a bowsprit, which carried on an uncertain and desultory traffic with Bombay and some of the
Malabar ports. To avoid the dangerous sandbanks at the mouths of the Indus, as well as the
intricate navigation through the winding streams of the Delta, (the course of which, as in
the Mississippi, changes with every inundation,) they usually discharged their cargoes at Kurrachee,
whence they were transported sixty miles overland to Tatta, and there embarked in flat-bottomed
boats on the main stream. The port of Kurrachee, fourteen miles N.W. from the Pittee, or western
mouth of the Indus, and Sonmeani, lying in a deep bay in the territory of Lus, between forty
and fifty miles further in the same direction, are the only harbours of import in the long
sea-coast of Beloochistan; and the possession of them gives the British the undivided command
of a trade which, in spite of the late disasters, already promises to become considerable;
while the interposition of the now friendly state of Khelat[37] between the coast and the perturbed
tribes of Affghanistan, will secure the merchandise landed here a free passage into the interior.
The trade with these ports deserves, indeed, all the fostering care of the Indian Government;
since they must inevitably be, at least for some years to come, the only inlet for Indian produce
into Beloochistan, Cabul, and the wide regions of Central Asia beyond them. The overland carrying
trade through Scinde and the Punjab, in which (according to M. Masson) not less than 6500 camels
were annually employed, has been almost annihilated--not only by the confusion arising from
the war, but from the absolute want of means of transport, from the unprecedented destruction
of the camels occasioned by the exigencies of the commissariat, &c. The rocky defiles of Affghanistan
were heaped with the carcasses of these indispensable animals, 50,000 of which (as is proved
by the official returns) perished in this manner in the course of three years; and some years
must necessarily elapse before the chasm thus made in the numbers of the species throughout
North-western India can be supplied. The immense expenditure of the Army of Occupation, at
the same time, brought such an influx of specie into Affghanistan, as had never been known
since the sack of Delhi by Ahmed Shah Doorani--while the traffic with India being at a stand-still
for the reasons we have just given, the superfluity of capital thus produced was driven to
find an outlet in the northern markets of Bokhara and Turkestan. The consequence of this has
been, that Russian manufactures to an enormous amount have been poured into these regions,
by way of Astrakhan and the Caspian, to meet this increasing demand; and the value of Russian
commerce with Central Asia, which (as we pointed out in April 1840, p. 522) had for many years
been progressively declining, was doubled during 1840 and 1841, (Bombay Times, April 2, 1842,)
and is believed to be still on the increase! The opening of the navigation of the Indus, with
the exertions of the Bombay Chamber of Commerce to establish depots on its course, and to facilitate
the transmission of goods into the surrounding countries, has already done much for the restoration
of traffic in this direction, in spite of the efforts of the Russian agents in the north to
keep possession of the opening thus unexpectedly afforded them; but it cannot be denied that
the "great enlargement of our field of commerce," so confidently prognosticated by Lord Palmerston,
from "the great operations undertaken in the countries lying west of the Indus," has run a
heavy risk of being permanently diverted into other channels, by the operation of the causes
detailed above.

     [37] Khelat (more properly Khelat-i-Nussear Khan, "the citadel
     of Nussear Khan," by whom it was strongly fortified in 1750,)
     is the principal city and fortress of the Brahooes or Eastern
     Baloochee, and the residence of their chief. It had never been
     taken by any of the Affghan kings, and had even opposed a
     successful resistance to the arms of Ahmed Shah;--but on
     November 13, 1839, it was stormed by an Anglo-Indian force
     under General Wiltshire, and the Khan Mihrab was slain sword in
     hand, gallantly fighting to the last at the entrance of his
     zenana. The place, however, was soon after surprised and
     recaptured by the son of the fallen chief, Nussear Khan, who,
     though again expelled, continued to maintain himself with a few
     followers in the mountains, and at last effected an
     accommodation with the British, and was replaced on the musnud.
     He has since fulfilled his engagements to us with exemplary
     fidelity; and as his fears of compulsory vassalage to the
     nominally restored Affghan monarchy are now at an end, he
     appears likely to afford a solitary instance of a trans-Indian
     chief converted into a firm friend and ally.

Before we finally dismiss the subject of the Affghan war and its consequences, we cannot overlook
one feature in the termination of the contest, which is of the highest importance, as indicating
a return to a better system than that miserable course of reduction and parsimony, which, for
some years past, has slowly but surely been alienating the attachment, and breaking down the
military spirit, of our native army. We refer to the distribution, by order of Lord Ellenborough,
of badges of honorary distinction, as well as of more substantial rewards, in the form of augmented
allowances,[38] &c., to the sepoy corps which have borne the brunt of the late severe campaign.
Right well have these honours and gratuities been merited; nor could any measure have been
better timed to strengthen in the hearts of the sepoys the bonds of the Feringhi salt, to which
they have so long proved faithful. The policy, as well as the justice, of holding out every
inducement which may rivet the attachment of the native troops to our service, obvious as it
must appear, has in truth been of late too much neglected;[39] and it has become at this juncture
doubly imperative, both from the severe and unpopular duty in which a considerable portion
of the troops have recently been engaged, and from the widely-spread disaffection which has
lately manifested itself in various quarters among the native population. We predicted in July,
as the probable consequence of our reverses in Affghanistan, some open manifestation of the
spirit of revolt constantly smouldering among the various races of our subjects in India, but
the prophecy had already been anticipated by the event. The first overt resistance to authority
appeared in Bhundelkund, a wild and imperfectly subjugated province in the centre of Hindostan,
inhabited by a fierce people called Bhoondelahs. An insurrection, in which nearly all the native
chiefs are believed to be implicated, broke out here early in April; and a desultory and harassing
warfare has since been carried on in the midst of the almost impenetrable jungles and ravines
which overspread the district. The Nawab of Banda and the Bhoondee Rajah, a Moslem and a Hindoo
prince, respectively of some note in the neighbourhood of the disturbed tracts, have been placed
under surveillance at Allahabad as the secret instigators of these movements, "which," (says
the Agra Ukhbar) "appear to have been regularly organized all over India, the first intimation
of which was the Nawab of Kurnool's affair"--whose deposition we noticed in July. The valley
of Berar, also, in the vicinity of the Nizam's frontier, has been the scene of several encounters
between our troops and irregular bands of insurgents; and the restless Arab mercenaries in
the Dekkan are still in arms, ready to take service with any native ruler who chooses to employ
them against the Feringhis. In the northern provinces, the aspect of affairs is equally unfavourable.
The Rohillas, the most warlike and nationally-united race of Moslems in India, have shown alarming
symptoms of a refractory temper, fomented (as it has been reported) by the disbanded troopers
of the 2d Bengal cavalry,[40] (a great proportion of whom were Rohillas,) and by Moslem deserters
from the other regiments in Affghanistan, who have industriously magnified the amount of our
losses--a pleasing duty, in which the native press, as usual, has zealously co-operated. One
of the newspapers printed in the Persian language at Delhi, recently assured its readers that,
at the forcing of the Khyber Pass, "six thousand Europeans fell under the sharp swords of the
Faithful"--with other veracious intelligence, calculated to produce the belief that the campaign
must inevitably end, like the preceding, in the defeat and extermination of the whole invading
force. The fruits of these inflammatory appeals to the pride and bigotry of the Moslems, is
thus painted in a letter from Rohilcund, which we quote from that excellent periodical the
Asiatic Journal for September:--"The Mahomedans throughout Rohilcund hate us to a degree only
second to what the Affghans do, their interest in whose welfare they can scarcely conceal....
There are hundreds of heads of tribes, all of whom would rise to a man on what they considered
a fitting opportunity, which they are actually thirsting after. A hint from their moolahs,
and the display of the green flag, would rally around it every Mussulman. In March last, the
population made no scruple of declaring that the Feringhi raj (English rule) was at an end;
and some even disputed payment of the revenue, saying it was probable they should have to pay
it again to another Government! They have given out a report that Akhbar Khan has disbanded
his army for the present, in order that his men may visit their families; but in the cold weather,
when our troops will be weakened and unfit for action, he will return with an overwhelming
force, aided by every Mussulman as far as Ispahan, when they will annihilate our whole force
and march straight to Delhi, and ultimately send us to our ships. The whole Mussulman population,
in fact, are filled with rejoicing and hope at our late reverses."

     [38] By a general order, issued from Simla October 4, all
     officers and soldiers, of whatever grade, who took part in the
     operations about Candahar, the defence of Khelat-i-Ghiljie, the
     recapture of Ghazni or Cabul, or the forcing of the Khyber
     Pass, are to receive a silver medal with appropriate
     inscriptions--a similar distinction having been previously
     conferred on the defenders of Jellalabad. What is at present
     the value of the Order of the Doorani Empire, with its showy
     decorations of the first, second, and third classes, the last
     of which was so rightfully spurned by poor Dennie?

     [39] The following remarks of the Madras United Service
     Gazette, though intended to apply only to the Secunderabad
     disturbances, deserve general attention at present:--"We
     attribute the lately-diminished attachment of the sepoys for
     their European officers to a diminished inclination for the
     service, the duties whereof have of late years increased in
     about the same proportion that its advantages have been
     reduced. The cavalry soldier of the present day has more than
     double the work to do that a trooper had forty years ago;...
     and the infantry sepoy's garrison guard-work has been for years
     most fatiguing at every station, from the numerical strength of
     the troops being quite inadequate to the duties.... These
     several unfavourable changes have gradually given the sepoy a
     distaste for the service, which has been augmented by the
     stagnant state of promotion, caused by the reductions in 1829,
     when one-fifth of the infantry, and one-fourth of the cavalry,
     native commissioned and non-commissioned officers, became
     supernumerary, thus effectually closing the door of promotion
     to the inferior grades for years to come. Hopeless of
     advancement, the sepoy from that time became gradually less
     attentive to his duties, less respectful to his superiors, as
     careless of a service which no longer held out any prospect of
     promotion. Still, however, the bonds of discipline were not
     altogether loosened, till Lord W. Bentinck's abolition of
     corporal punishment; and from the promulgation of that
     ill-judged order may be dated the decided change for the worse
     which has taken place in the character of the native soldiery."

     [40] This corps, it will be remembered, was broken for its
     misconduct in the battle of Purwan-Durrah, against Dost
     Mohammed, November 2, 1840.

It may be said that we are unnecessarily multiplying instances, and that these symptoms of
local fermentation are of little individual importance; but nothing can be misplaced which
has a tendency to dispel the universal and unaccountable error which prevails in England, as
to the popularity of our sway in India. The signs of the times are tolerably significant--and
the apprehensions of a coming commotion which we expressed in July, as well as of the quarter
in which it will probably break out, are amply borne out by the language of the best-informed
publications of India. "That the seeds of discontent" says the Delhi Gazette--"have been sown
by the Moslems, and have partially found root among the Hindoos, is more than conjecture"--and
the warnings of the Agra Ukhbar are still more unequivocal. "Reports have reached Agra that
a general rise will erelong take place in the Dekkan. There have already been several allusions
made to a very extensive organization among the native states[41] against the British power,
the resources of which will, no doubt, be stretched to the utmost during the ensuing cold season.
Disaffection is wide and prevalent, and when our withdrawal from Affghanistan becomes known,
it will ripen into open insurrection. With rebellion in Central India, and famine in Northern,
Government have little time to lose in collecting their energies to meet the crisis." The increase
of means which the return of the army from Affghanistan will place at the disposal of the Governor-General,
will doubtless do much in either overawing or suppressing these insurrectionary demonstrations;
but even in this case the snake will have been only "scotched, not killed;" and the most practical
and effectual method of rendering such attempts hopeless for the future, will be the replacing
the Indian army on the same efficient footing, as to numbers and composition, on which it stood
before the ill-judged measures of Lord William Bentinck. The energies of the native troops
have been heavily tasked, and their fidelity severely tried, during the Affghan war; and though
they have throughout nobly sustained the high character which they had earned by their past
achievements, the experiment on their endurance should not be carried too far. Many of the
errors of past Indian administrations have already been remedied by Lord Ellenborough; and
we cannot refrain from the hope, that the period of his Government will not be suffered to
elapse without a return to the old system on this point also--the vital point on which the
stability of our empire depends.

     [41] The Nawab of Arcot, one of the native princes, whose
     fidelity is now strongly suspected, assured the Resident, in
     his reply to the official communication of the capture of
     Ghazni in 1839, that from his excessive joy at the triumph of
     his good friend the Company, his bulk of body had so greatly
     increased that he was under the necessity of providing himself
     with a new wardrobe--his garments having become too strait for
     his unbounded stomach! A choice specimen of oriental bombast.

Such have been the consequences, as far as they have hitherto been developed, to the foreign
and domestic relations of our Eastern empire, of the late memorable Affghan war. In many points,
an obvious parallel may be drawn between its commencement and progress, and that of the invasion
of Spain by Napoleon. In both cases, the territory of an unoffending people was invaded and
overrun, in the plenitude of (as was deemed by the aggressors) irresistible power, on the pretext,
in each case, that it was necessary to anticipate an ambitious rival in the possession of a
country which might be used as a vantage ground against us. In both cases, the usurpation was
thinly veiled by the elevation of a pageant-monarch to the throne; till the invaded people,
goaded by the repeated indignities offered to their religious and national pride, rose en masse
against their oppressors at the same moment in the capital and the provinces, and either cut
them off, or drove them to the frontier. In each case the intruders, by the arrival of reinforcements,
regained for a time their lost ground; and if our Whig rulers had continued longer at the helm
of affairs, the parallel might have become complete throughout. The strength and resources
of our Indian empire might have been drained in the vain attempt to complete the subjugation
of a rugged and impracticable country, inhabited by a fierce and bigoted population; and an
"Affghan ulcer." (to use the ordinary phrase of Napoleon himself in speaking of the Spanish
war) might have corroded the vitals, and undermined the fabric, of British domination in the
East. Fortunately, however, for our national welfare and our national character, better counsels
are at length in the ascendant. The triumphs which have again crowned our arms, have not tempted
our rulers to resume the perfidious policy which their predecessors, in the teeth of their
own original declarations, have now openly avowed, by "retaining military possession of the
countries west of the Indus;" and the candid acknowledgement of the error committed in the
first instance, affords security against the repetition of such acts of wanton aggression,
and for adherence to the pacific policy now laid down. The ample resources of India have yet
in a great measure to be explored and developed, and it is impossible to foresee what results
may be attained, when (in the language of the Bombay Times) "wisdom guides for good and worthy
ends, that resistless energy which madness has wasted on the opposite. We now see that, even
with Affghanistan as a broken barrier, Russia dares not move her finger against us--that with
seventeen millions sterling thrown away, we are able to recover all our mischances, if relieved
from the rulers and the system which imposed them upon us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The late proclamation of Lord Ellenborough has been so frequently referred to in the foregoing
pages, that for the sake of perspicuity we subjoin it in full.

"Secret Department, Simla,

"Oct. 1, 1842.

"The Government of India directed its army to pass the Indus, in order to expel from Affghanistan
a chief believed to be hostile to British interests, and to replace upon his throne a sovereign
represented to be friendly to those interests, and popular with his former subjects.

"The chief believed to be hostile became a prisoner, and the sovereign represented to be popular
was replaced upon his throne; but after events which brought into question his fidelity to
the Government by which he was restored, he lost, by the hands of an assassin, the throne he
had only held amidst insurrections, and his death was preceded and followed by still existing
anarchy.

"Disasters, unparalleled in their extent, unless by the errors in which they originated, and
by the treachery by which they were completed, have in one short campaign been avenged upon
every scene of past misfortune; and repeated victories in the field, and the capture of the
cities and citadels of Ghazni and Cabul, have again attached the opinion of invincibility to
the British arms.

"The British army in possession of Affghanistan will now be withdrawn to the Sutlej.

"The Governor-General will leave it to the Affghans themselves to create a government amidst
the anarchy which is the consequence of their crimes.

"To force a sovereign upon a reluctant people, would be as inconsistent with the policy, as
it is with the principles, of the British Government, tending to place the arms and resources
of that people at the disposal of the first invader, and to impose the burden of supporting
a sovereign without the prospect of benefit from his alliance.

"The Governor-General will willingly recognize any government approved by the Affghans themselves,
which shall appear desirous and capable of maintaining friendly relations with neighbouring states.

"Content with the limits nature appears to have assigned to its empire, the Government of India
will devote all its efforts to the establishment and maintenance of general peace, to the protection
of the sovereigns and chiefs its allies, and to the prosperity and happiness of its own faithful
subjects.

"The rivers of the Punjab and the Indus, and the mountainous passes and the barbarous tribes
of Affghanistan, will be placed between the British army and an enemy from the west, if indeed
such an enemy there can be, and no longer between the army and its supplies.

"The enormous expenditure required for the support of a large force in a false military position,
at a distance from its own frontier and its resources, will no longer arrest every measure
for the improvement of the country and of the people.

"The combined army of England and of India, superior in equipment, in discipline, in valour,
and in the officers by whom it is commanded, to any force which can be opposed to it in Asia,
will stand in unassailable strength upon its own soil, and for ever, under the blessing of
Providence, preserve the glorious empire it has won, in security and in honour.

"The Governor-General cannot fear the misconstruction of his motives in thus frankly announcing
to surrounding states the pacific and conservative policy of his Government.

"Affghanistan and China have seen at once the forces at his disposal, and the effect with which
they can be applied.

"Sincerely attached to peace for the sake of the benefits it confers upon the people, the Governor-General
is resolved that peace shall be observed, and will put forth the whole power of the British
Government to coerce the state by which it shall be infringed."

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH OF THOMAS HAMILTON, ESQ.

There are few things more painful connected with the increase of years in an established periodical
like our own, than to observe how "friend after friend departs," to witness the gradual thinning
of the ranks of its contributors by death, and the departure, from the scene, of those whose
talents or genius had contributed to its early influence and popularity. Many years have not
elapsed since we were called on to record the death of the upright and intelligent publisher,
to whose energy and just appreciation of the public taste, its origin and success are in a
great degree to be ascribed. On the present occasion another of these melancholy memorials
is required of us; the accomplished author of "Cyril Thornton," whose name and talents had
been associated with the Magazine from its commencement, is no more. He died at Pisa on the
7th December last.

