As I was to sleep at the cottage, and as I knew not what part I might have to play in Sinfi's
wild frolic, I told the servants that any letters which might reach the bungalow next morning
were to be sent at once to the cottage, should I not have returned thence.

At about the hour, as far as I could guess, when I had first knocked at the cottage door at
the beginning of my search for Winnie, I stood there again. The door was on the latch. I pushed
it open.

The scene I then saw was so exact a repetition of what had met my eyes when for the first time
I passed under that roof, that it did not seem as though it could be real; it seemed as though
it must be a freak of memory: the same long low room, the same heavy beams across the ceiling,
the same three chairs, standing in the same places where they stood then, the same table, and
upon it the crwth and bow. There was a brisk fire, and over it hung the kettle--the same kettle
as then. There were on the walls the same pictures, with the ruddy fingers of the fire-gleam
playing upon them and illuminating them in the same pathetic way, and in front of the fire
sitting upon the same chair, was a youthful female figure--not Winnie's figure, taller than
hers, and grander than hers--the figure of Sinfi, her elbows resting upon her knees, and her
face sunk meditatively between her hands.

After standing for fully half a minute gazing at her, I went up to her, and laying my hand
upon her shoulder, I said, 'This is a good sight for the Swimming Rei, Sinfi.'

At the touch of my hand a thrill seemed to dart through her frame; she leaped up and stared
wildly in my face. Her features became contorted by terror--as horribly contorted as Winnie's
had been in the same spot and under the same circumstances. Exactly the same terrible words
fell upon my ear:--

'Let his children be vagabonds and beg their bread: let them seek it also out of desolate places.
So saith the Lord. Amen.'

Then she fell on the floor insensible.

At first I was too astonished, awed, and bewildered to stir from the spot where I was standing.
Then I knelt down, and raising her shoulders, placed her head on my knee. For a time the expression
of horror on her pale features was fixed as though graven in marble. A jug of water, from which
the kettle had been supplied, stood on the floor in the recess. I sprinkled some water over
her face. The muscles relaxed, she opened her eyes; the seizure had passed. She recognised
me, and at once the old brave smile I knew so well passed over her face. Rhona's words about
the curse and the purchase of the dresses seemed explained now. Long brooding over Winnie's
terrible fate had unhinged her mind.

'My girl, my brave girl,' I said, 'have you, then, felt our sorrow so deeply? Have you so fully
shared poor Winnie's pain that your nerves have given way at last? You are suffering through
sympathy, Sinfi; you are suffering poor Winnie's great martyrdom.'

'Oh, it ain't that!' she said, 'but how I must have skeared you!'

She got up and sat upon the chair in a much more vigorous way than I could have expected after
such a seizure.

'I am so sorry,' she said. 'It was the sudden feel o' your hand on my shoulder that done it.
It seemed to burn me like, and then it made my blood seem scaldin' hot. If I'd only 'a' seed
you come through the door I shouldn't have had the fit. The doctor told me the fits wur all
gone now, and I feel sure as this is the last on 'em. You must go to Knockers' Llyn with me
to-morrow mornin' early. I want you to go at the same time that we started when we tried that
mornin' to find Winnie.'

'Then Rhona's story is true,' I thought. 'Her delusion is that she is going to Knockers' Llyn
to be married.'

'The weather's goin' to be just the same as it was then,' she said, 'and when we get to Knockers'
Llyn where you two breakfasted together, I want to play the crwth and sing the song just as
I did then.'

She made no allusion to a wedding. Getting up and pouring the boiling water from the kettle
into the teapot, 'Something tells me,' she went on, 'that when I touch my crwth to-morrow,
and when I sing them words by the side of Knockers' Llyn, you'll see the picture you want to
see, the livin' mullo o' Winnie.'

'Still no allusion to a wedding, but no doubt that will soon come,' I murmured.

'I want to go the same way we went that day, and I want for you and me to see everythink as
we seed it then from fust to last.'

I was haunted by Rhona Boswell's words, and wondered when she would begin talking about the
wedding at Knockers' Llyn.

She never once alluded to it; but at intervals when the talk between us flagged I could hear
her muttering, 'He must see everythink just as he seed it then from fust to last, and then
it's good-bye for ever.'

At last she said, 'I've had both the rooms upstairs made tidy to sleep in--one for you and
one for me. I'll call you in the mornin' at the proper time. Goodnight.'

I was not sorry to get this summary dismissal and be alone with my thoughts. When I got to
bed I was kept awake by recalling the sight I saw on entering the cottage. There seemed no
other explanation of it than this, the tragedy of Winifred had touched Sinfi's sympathetic
soul too deeply. Her imagination had seized upon the spectacle of Winifred in one of her fits,
and had caused so serious a disturbance of her nervous system that through sheer fascination
of repulsion her face mimicked it exactly as Winifred's face had mimicked the original spectacle
of horror on the sands.

III

It was not yet dawn when I was aroused from the fitful slumber into which I had at last fallen
by a sharp knocking at the door. When I answered the summons by 'All right, Sinfi,' and heard
her footsteps descend the stairs, the words of Rhona Boswell again came to me.

I found that I must return to the bungalow to get my bath.

The startled servant who let me in asked if there was anything the matter. I explained my early
rising by telling him that I was merely going to Knockers' Llyn to see the sunrise. He gave
me a letter which had come on the previous evening, and had been addressed by mistake to Carnarvon.
As the handwriting was new to me, I felt sure that it was only an unimportant missive from
some stranger, and I put it into my pocket without opening it.

On my return I found Sinfi in the little room where we had supped. I guessed that an essential
part of her crazy project was that we should breakfast at the llyn.

On the table was a basket filled with the materials for the breakfast.

Another breakfast was spread for us two on the table, and the teapot was steaming. Sinfi saw
me look at the two breakfasts and smile.

'We've got a good way to walk before we get to the pool where we are goin' to breakfast,' she
said, 'so I thought we'd take a snack before we start.'

As we went along I noticed that the air of Snowdon seemed to have its usual effect on Sinfi.
In taking the path that led to Knockers' Llyn we saw before us Cwm-Dyli, the wildest of all
the Snowdonian recesses, surrounded by frowning precipices of great height and steepness. We
then walked briskly on towards our goal. When the three peaks that she knew so well--y Wyddfa,
Lliwedd, and Crib Goch--stood out in the still grey light she stopped, set down her basket,
clapped her hands, and said, 'Didn't I tell you the mornin' was a-goin' to be ezackly the same
as then? No mists to-day. By the time we get to the llyn the colours o' the vapours, what they
calls the Knockers' flags, will come out ezackly as they did that mornin' when you and me first
went arter Winnie.'

All the way Sinfi's eyes were fixed on the majestic forehead of y Wyddfa and the bastions of
Lliwedd which seemed to guard it as though the Great Spirit of Snowdon himself was speaking
to her and drawing her on, and she kept murmuring 'The two dukkeripens.'

But still she said nothing about her wedding, though that some such mad idea as that suggested
by Rhona possessed her mind was manifest enough.

'Here we are at last,' she said, when we reached the pool for which we were bound; and setting
down her little basket she stood and looked over to the valley beneath.

The colours were coming more quickly every minute, and the entire picture was exactly the same
as that which I had seen on the morning when we last saw Winifred on the hills, so unlike the
misty panorama that Snowdon usually presents. Y Wyddfa was silhouetted against the sky, and
looked as narrow and as steep as the sides of an acorn. Here we halted and set down our basket.

As we did so she said, 'Hark! the Knockers! Don't you hear them? Listen, listen!'

I did listen, and I seemed to hear a peculiar sound as of a distant knocking against the rocks
by some soft substance. She saw that I heard the noise.

'That's the Snowdon spirits as guards more copper mines than ever yet's been found. And they're
dwarfs. I've seed 'em, and Winnie has. They're little, fat, short folk, somethin' like the
woman in Primrose Court, only littler. Don't you mind the gal in the court said Winnie used
to call the woman Knocker? Sometimes they knock to show to some Taffy as has pleased 'em where
the veins of copper may be found, and sometimes they knock to give warnin' of a dangerous precipuss,
and sometimes they knock to give the person as is talkin' warnin' that he's sayin' or doin'
somethin' as may lead to danger. They speaks to each other too, but in a v'ice so low that
you can't tell what words they're a-speakin', even if you knew their language. My crwth and
song will rouse every spirit on the hills.'

I listened again. This was the mysterious sound that had so captivated Winnie's imagination
as a child.

The extraordinary lustre of Sinfi's eyes indicated to me, who knew them so well, that every
nerve, every fibre in her system, was trembling under the stress of some intense emotion. I
stood and watched her, wondering as to her condition, and speculating as to what her crazy
project could be.

Then she proceeded to unpack the little basket.

'This is for the love-feast,' said Sinfi.

'You mean betrothal feast,' I said. 'But who are the lovers?'

'You and the livin' mullo that you made me draw for you by my crwth down by Beddgelert--the
livin' mullo o' Winnie Wynne.'

'At last then,' I said to myself, 'I know the form the mania has taken. It is not her own betrothal,
but mine with Winnie's wraith, that is deluding her crazy brain. How well I remember telling
her how I had promised Winnie as a child to be betrothed by Knockers' Llyn. Poor Sinfi! Mad
or sane, her generosity remains undimmed.'

Before the breakfast cloth could be laid--indeed before the basket was unpacked--she asked
me to look at my watch, and on my doing so and telling her the time, she jumped up and said,
'It's later than I thought. We must lay the cloth arterwards.' She then placed me in that same
crevice overlooking the tarn whence Winnie had come to me on that morning.

Knockers' Llyn, it will perhaps be remembered, is enclosed in a little gorge opening by a broken,
ragged fissure at the back to the east. Leading to this opening there is on one side a narrow,
jagged shelf which runs half-way round the pool. Sinfi's movements now were an exact repetition
of everything she did on that first morning of our search for Winnie.

While I stood partially concealed in my crevice, Sinfi took up her crwth, which was lying on
the rock.

'What are you going; to do, Sinfi?'  I said.

'I'm just goin' to bring back old times for you. You remember that mornin' when my crwth and
song called Winnie to us at this very llyn? I'm goin' to play on my crwth and sing the same
song now. It's to draw her livin' mullo, as I did at Bettws and Beddgelert, so that the dukkeripen
of the "Golden Hand" may come true.'

'But how can it come true, Sinfi?'  I said.

'The dukkeripen allus does come true, whether it's good or whether it's bad.'

'Not always,' I said.

'No, not allus,' she cried, starting up, while there came over her face that expression which
had so amazed me at Beddgelert. When at last breath came to her she was looking towards y Wyddfa
through the kindling haze.

'There you're right, Hal Aylwin. It ain't every dukkeripen as comes true. The dukkeripen allus
comes true, unless it's one as says a Gorgio shall come to the Kaulo Camloes an' break Sinfi
Lovell's heart. Before that dukkeripen shall come true Sinfi Lovell 'ud cut her heart out.
Yes, my fine Gorgio, she'd cut it out--she'd cut it out and fling it in that 'ere llyn. She
did cut it out when she took the cuss on herself. She's a-cuttin' it out now.'

Then without saying another word Sinfi took up her crwth and moved towards the llyn.

'You'll soon come back, Sinfi?' I said.

'We've got to see about that,' she replied, still pale and trembling from the effects of that
sudden upheaval of the passion of a Titaness. 'If the livin' mullo does come you can't have
a love-feast without company, you know, and I sha'n't be far off if you find you want me.'

She then took up her crwth, went round the llyn, and disappeared through the eastern cleft.
In a few minutes I heard her crwth. But the air she played was not the air of the song she
called the 'Welsh dukkerin' gillie' which I had heard by Beddgelert. It was the air of the
same idyll of Snowdon that I first beard Winifred sing on the sands of Raxton. Then I heard
in the distance those echoes, magical and faint, which were attributed by Winifred and Sinfi
to the Knockers or spirits of Snowdon.

IV

There I stood again, as on that other morning, in the crevice overlooking the same llyn, looking
at what might well have been the same masses of vapour enveloping the same peaks, rolling as
then, boiling as then, blazing as then, whenever the bright shafts of morning struck them.
There I stood again, listening to the wild notes of Sinfi's crwth in the distance, as the sun
rose higher, pouring a radiance through the eastern gate of the gorge, and kindling the aerial
vapours moving about the llyn till their iridescent sails suggested the wings of some enormous
dragon-fly of every hue.

'Her song does not come,' I said, 'but, this time, when it does come, it will not befool my
senses. Sinfi's own presence by my side--that magnetism of hers which D'Arcy spoke of--would
be required before the glamour could be cast over me, now that I know she is crazy. Poor Sinfi!
It was the same voice that I heard singing the same song in the London streets--Winnie's!

And then there appeared in the eastern cleft of the gorge on the other side of the llyn, illuminated
as by a rosy steam, Winnie! Amid the opalescent vapours gleaming round the llyn, with eyes
now shimmering as through a veil--now flashing like sapphires in the sun--there she stood gazing
through the film, her eyes expressing a surprise and a wonder as great as my own.

'It is no phantasm--it is no hallucination,' I said, while my breathing had become a spasmodic,
choking gasp.

But when I remembered the vision of Fairy Glen, I said, 'Imagination can do that, and so can
the glamour cast over me by Sinfi's music. It does not vanish; ah, if the sweet madness should
remain with me for ever! It does not vanish--it is gliding along the side of the llyn: it is
moving towards me. And now those sudden little ripples in the llyn--what do they mean? The
trout are flying from her shadow. The feet are grating on the stones. And hark! that pebble
which falls into the water with a splash; the glassy llyn is ribbed and rippled with rings.
Can a phantom do that? It comes towards me still. Hallucination!'

Still the vision came on.

When I felt the touch of her body, when I felt myself clasped in soft arms, and felt falling
on my face warm tears, and on my lips the pressure of Winnie's lips--lips that were murmuring,
'At last, at last!'--a strange, wild effect was worked within me. The reality of the beloved
form now in my arms declared itself; it brought back the scene where I had last clasped it.

Snowdon had vanished; the brilliant morning sun had vanished. The moon was shining on a cottage
near Raxton Church, and at the door two lovers were standing, wet with the sea-water--with
the sea-water through which they had just waded. All the misery that had followed was wiped
out of my brain. It had not even the cobweb consistence of a dream.

When, after a while, Snowdon and the drama of the present came back to me, my brain was in
such a marvellous state that it held two pictures of the same Winnie as though each hemisphere
of the brain were occupied with its own vision. I was kissing Winnie's sea-salt lips in the
light of the moon at the cottage door, and I was kissing them in the morning radiance by Knockers'
Llyn. And yet so overwhelming was the mighty tide of bliss overflowing my soul that there was
no room within me for any other emotion--no room for curiosity, no room even for wonder.

Like a spirit awakening in Paradise, I accepted the heaven in which I found myself, and did
not inquire how I got there.

This did not last long, however. Suddenly and sharply the moonlight scene vanished, and I was
on Snowdon, and there came a burning curiosity to know the meaning of this new life--the meaning
of the life of pain that had followed the parting at the cottage door.

V

'Winnie,' I said, 'tell me where we are. I have been very ill since we parted in your father's
cottage. I have had the wildest hallucinations concerning you; dreams, intolerable dreams.
And even now they hang about me; even now it seems to me that we are far away from Raxton,
surrounded by the hills and peaks of Snowdon. If they were real you would be the dream, but
you are real; this waist is real.'

'Of course we are on Snowdon, Henry!' said she. 'You must indeed have been ill--you must now
be very ill--to suppose you are at Raxton.'

'But what are we doing here?' I said. 'How did we come here?'

'Let Badoura speak for herself only,' she said, with that arch smile of hers. She was alluding
to the old days at Raxton, when she hoped that some day her little Camaralzaman would be carried
by genii to her as she sat thinking of him by the magic llyn. 'The genie who brought me was
Sinfi Lovell. But who brought Camaralzaman? That is a question,' she said, 'I am dying to have
answered.'

At the name of Sinfi Lovell the past came flowing in.

'Then there is a Sinfi Lovell, Winnie! And yet she is one of the figures in the dream. There
was no Sinfi Lovell with us at Raxton.'

'Of course there is a Sinfi Lovell! You begin to make me as dazed as yourself. You have known
her well; you and she were seeking me when I was lost.'

'Then you were lost?' I said. 'That, then, is no dream. And yet if you were lost you have been--But
you are alive, Winnie. Let me feel the lips on mine again. You are alive! Snowdon told me at
last that you were alive, but I dared not believe it, my darling. I dared not believe that
my misery would end thus--thus.'

There came upon her face an expression of distressed perplexity which did more than anything
else to recall me to my senses.

'Winnie,' I said, 'my brain is whirling. Let us sit down.'

She sat down by my side.

'You thought your Winnie was dead, Henry. Sinfi Lovell has told me all about it.' Then, looking
intently at me, she said, 'And how your sorrow has changed you, dear!'

'You mean it has aged me, Winnie. I have observed it myself, and people tell me it has made
me look older than I am by many years. These furrows around the eyes--these furrows on my brow--you
are kissing them, dear.'

'Oh, I love them; how I love them!' she said. 'I am not kissing them to smooth them away. To
me every line tells of your love for Winnie.'

'And the hair, Winnie--look, it is getting quite grizzled.' Then, as the lovely head sank upon
my breast. I whispered in her ears, 'Is there at last sorrow enough in the eyes, Winnie? Has
the hardening effect of wealth coarsened my expression? Can a rich man for once enter the kingdom
of love? Is the betrothal now complete? Are we both betrothed now?'

I stopped, for bliss and love were convulsing her with sobs until you might have supposed her
heart was breaking.

While she lay silent thus, I was able in some degree to call my wits around me. And the difficulty
of knowing in what course I ought to direct conversation presented itself, and seemed to numb
my faculties and paralyse me.

After a while she became more composed, and sat in a trance, so to speak, of happiness.

But she remained silent. The conversation, I perceived, would have to be directed entirely
by me. With the appalling seizures ever present in my mind, I felt that every word that came
from my lips was dangerous.

'Look,' I said, 'the colours of the vapours round the llyn are as rich as they were when we
breakfasted here together.'

'We breakfasted here together! Why, what do you mean?' she said, looking in my face. 'You forget,
Henry, you never knew me in Wales at all; it was only at Raxton that you ever saw me.'

'I mean when you breakfasted with the Prince of the Mist. I was the Prince of the Mist, dear.'

She gave me a puzzled look which scared while it warned me. How cruel it seemed of Sinfi, who
had planned this meeting, not to have told me how much and how little Winnie knew of the past.

'You know nothing about the Prince of the Mist except what I told you on Raxton sands,' she
said. 'But you have been very ill; you will be well now.'

'Yes,' I said; 'I have found the life I had lost, and these dreams of mine will soon pass.'

As the conversation went on I began to see that she remembered our meetings on the sands--remembered
everything up to a certain point. What was that point? This was the question that kept me on
tenterhooks.

Every word she uttered, however, shed light into my mind, and served as a warning that I must
feel my way cautiously. It was evident to me that in some unaccountable way Sinfi at some time
after she left me at Beddgelert had discovered that Winnie was not really dead, and had brought
her back to me--brought her back to me restored in mind, but with all memory of what had passed
during her dementia erased from her consciousness. Everything depended now upon my learning
how much of her past she did remember. A single ill-judged word of mine--a single false move--might
ruin all, and bring back the life of misery which I seemed at last to have left behind me.

VI

'Winnie,' I said, 'you have not yet told me how you came here. You have not yet told me how
it is that you meet me on Snowdon--meet me in this wonderful way.'

'Oh,' said she with a smile, 'Badoura has been a mere puppet in the play. She had no idea she
was going to meet her prince. Sinfi was suddenly seized with a desire that she and I should
come back, and visit the dear old places we knew together. I was nothing loth, as you may imagine,
but I could not understand what had made her set her heart upon it. When we reached Carnarvonshire
I found that Sinfi's people were all encamped near to Bettws y Coed, and we went and stayed
there. We visited all the places in the neighbourhood that were associated with her childhood
and mine.'

'You went to Fairy Glen?' I said.

'Yes; we went there the night before last and saw it in the moonlight.'

'I was there, and I saw you.'

'Ah! Then the man sitting on the boulder at the bottom was you! How wonderful! Sinfi was there
on the step round the corner; she must have seen you. I know now why she suddenly hurried me
away. She had told me that she wanted to see the Glen by moonlight'

'Then you did not know that you would meet me here?'

'My dear Henry, do you suppose that if I had known, I could have been induced to take part
in anything so theatrical? When I saw you standing here my amazement and joy were so great
that I forgot the strange way in which I stood exhibited.'

I felt that the longer she chatted about such matters as these the more opportunities I should
get of learning how much and how little she knew of her own story, so I said,

'But tell me how Sinfi contrived to trick you.'

'Well, this morning was the time fixed for our visiting Llyn Coblynau, as we call Knockers'
Lynn, which was my favourite place as a child. We were to see it when the colours of the morning
were upon it. Then we were to go right to the top of Snowdon and take a mid-day meal at the
hut there, and in the evening go down to Llanberis and sleep there. To-morrow morning we were
to go to dear old Carnarvon and see again the beloved sea. I find now that her plan was to
bring you and me together in this sensational way.'

'Will she join us?' I asked.

'I know no more than you what will be Sinfi's next whim. At the last moment yesterday I was
surprised to find that I was not to come with her here, as she was not to sleep in the camp
last night because she had promised to see a friend at Capel Curig. And now, shall I tell you
how she inveigled me into taking my part in this Snowdon play she was getting up? She told
me that she had the greatest wish to discover how the "Knockers' echoes," as they are called,
would sound if, in the early morning, she were to play her crwth in one spot and I were to
answer it from another spot with a verse of a Welsh song. It seemed a pretty idea, and it was
agreed that when I reached the llyn I was to go round it to the opening at the east, pass through
the crevice, and wait there till I heard her crwth.'

'Well, Winnie, I must say that the way in which our Gypsy friend manipulated you, and the way
in which she manipulated me, shows a method that would have done credit to any madness.'

'You? How did she trick you?'

I was determined not to talk about myself till I had felt my way.

'Winnie, dear,' I said, 'seeing you is such a surprise, and my illness has left me so weak,
that I must wait before talking about myself. I shall be more able to do this after I have
learnt more of what has befallen you. You say that Sinfi proposed to bring you to Wales; but
where were you when she did so? And what brought you into contact with Sinfi again after--after--after
you and I were parted in Raxton?'

'Ah! that is a strange story indeed,' said Winifred. 'It bewilders me to recall it as much
as it will bewilder you when you come to hear it. I, too, seem to have been ill, and quite
unconscious for months and months.'

'Winnie,' I said, 'tell me this strange story about yourself. Tell it in your own way, and
do not let me interrupt you by a word. Whenever you see that I am about to speak, stop me--put
your hand over my mouth.'

'But where am I to begin?'

'Begin from our first meeting on the sands on the night of the landslip.'

But while I spoke I thought I observed her looking at the breakfast provided by Sinfi with
something like the same wistful expression that was on her face on that morning forgotten by
her but remembered by me so well, when she breakfasted so heartily on the same spot.

'Winnie,' I said, 'this mountain air has given me a voracious appetite. I wonder whether you
could manage to eat some of these good things provided by our theatrical manageress?'

'I wonder whether I could,' said Winnie; 'I'll try--if you'll ask me no questions, but talk
about Snowdon and watch the changes of the glorious morning. But we must call Sinfi.'

'No, no. I want to talk to you alone first. By the time your story is over I at least shall
be ready for another breakfast, and then we will call her.'

This was agreed upon, and I sat down to my second breakfast with Winnie beside Knockers' Llyn.
I sat with my face opposite to the llyn, and we had scarcely begun when I noticed Sinfi's face
peeping round a corner of the little gorge. Winnie's back being turned from the llyn she did
not see Sinfi, who gave me a sign that her part of that performance was to be looker-on.

I have not time to dwell upon what was said and done during our breakfast in this romantic
place, and under these more than romantic circumstances. During the whole of the time the Knockers
kept up their knockings, and it really seemed as though the good-natured goblins were expressing
their welcome to the child of y Wyddfa.

XV

THE DAUGHTER OF SNOWDON'S STORY

I

After the breakfast was ended Winifred went over the entire drama of that night of the landslip
as far as she knew it. There was not an important incident that she missed. Every detail of
her narrative was so vividly given that I lived it all over again. She recalled our meeting
on the sands, and my inexplicable bearing when she told me of the seaman's present of precious
stones to her father. She dwelt upon my mysterious conduct in insisting upon our ascending
the cliff by different gangways. She recalled her picking up from the sands a parchment scroll
and spelling out by the moonlight the words of the curse it called down upon the head of any
one who should violate the tomb from which the parchment and the jewel had been stolen, but
as she repeated the words of the curse she was evidently unconscious of the tremendous import
of the words in regard to herself and her father. She told me of her desire to conceal from
me, for my own sake merely, the evidence afforded by the scroll that my father's tomb had been
violated. She recalled my seeing the parchment and being thrown thereby into a state of the
greatest mental agony. She recalled my taking her hand as we neared the new tongue of land
made by the débris, and peering round it as though in dread of some concealed foe, but evidently
she had no idea of what was behind there. She described the way in which my 'foot slipped on
the sand,' and how I was thrown back upon her as she stood waiting to pass the débris herself.
She spoke of my unaccountable and apparently mad suggestion that we should, although the tide
was coming in, and we were already in danger of being imprisoned in the cove and drowned, sit
down on the boulder made sacred to us both by our childish betrothal. She spoke of her own
suspicion, and then her conviction, that some great calamity was threatening me on account
of the violation of the tomb, and that the knowledge of this was governing all these strange
movements of mine. She reminded me of my telling her that the shriek we both heard at the moment
when the cliff fell was connected with the crime against my father, and that it was the call
from the grave which, according to wild traditions, will sometimes come to the heir of an old
family. She recalled the very words I used when I told her that in answer to this call I intended
to remain there until the tide came in and drowned me. She dwelt upon the way in which I urged
her to go and leave me, her own resolution to die with me, and her cutting up her shawl into
a rope and tying herself to me. She recalled the sudden thunderous noise of the settlement
in response to the tide, and my springing up and running to the mass of débris and looking
round it, and then my calling her to join me; and finally she described her running toward
Needle Point in order to pass round it before the tide should get any higher, her plunging
into the sea and my pulling her round the Point.

It was manifest, from the first word she uttered to the last, that she had no idea who was
the 'miscreant,' to use her oft-repeated word, who committed the sacrilege; and nothing could
express what relief this gave my heart. I felt as though I had just escaped from some peril
too dire to think of with calmness.

'You remember, Henry,' said she, 'how we ran to the cottage in our wet clothes. You remember
how we parted at the cottage door. From that night till now we have never met, and now we meet--here
on Snowdon--at the very llyn I was always so fond of.

'But tell me more, Winnie--tell me what occurred to you on the next morning.'

'Well,' said she, 'I was always a sound sleeper, but my fatigue that night made me sleep until
quite late the next morning. I hurried up and got breakfast ready for father and myself. I
then went and rapped at his door, but I got no answer. His room was empty.'

Winifred paused here as though she expected me to say something. A thousand things occurred
to me to ask, but until I knew more--until I knew how much and how little she remembered of
that dreadful time, I dared ask her nothing--I dared make no remark at all. I said, 'Go on,
Winnie; pray do not break your story.'

'Well,' said she, 'I found that my father had not returned during the night. I did not feel
disturbed at that, his ways were so uncertain. I did not even hurry over my breakfast, but
dallied over it, recalling the scenes of the previous night, and wondering what some of them
could mean. I then went down the gangway at Needle Point to walk on the sands. I thought I
might meet father coming from Dullingham. I had to pass the landslip, where a great number
of Raxton people were gathered. They were looking at the frightful relics of Raxton churchyard.
They were too dreadful for me to look at. I walked right to Dullingham without meeting my father.
At Dullingham I was told that he had not been there for some days. Then, for the first time,
I began to be haunted by fears, but they took no distinct shape. When I returned to the landslip
the people were still there, and still very excited about it. In the afternoon I went again
on the sands, thinking that I might see my father and also that I might see you. I walked about
till dusk without seeing either of you, and then I went back to the cottage. I had now become
very anxious about my father, and sat up all night. The next morning after breakfast I went
again on the sands. The number of people collected round the landslip seemed greater than ever,
and many of them, I think, came from Graylingham, Rington, and Dullingham. They seemed more
excited than they had been on the previous day, and they did not notice me as I joined them.
I heard some one say in a cracked and piping voice, "Well, it's my belief as Tom lays under
that there settlement. It's my belief that he wur standing on the edge of the churchyard cliff,
and when the cliff fell he fell with it." Then the kind and good-natured little tailor Shales
saw me, and I thought he must have made some signal to the others, for they all stood silent.
I felt sure now that for some reason, unknown to me, it was generally believed that my father
had perished in the landslip. Mrs. Shales took me by the hand, and gently led me away up the
gangway. When we reached the cottage I asked her whether my father's body had been found. She
told me that it had not, and was not likely to be found, for if he had really fallen with the
landslip his body lay under tons upon tons of earth. I shall never forget the misery of that
night; kind Mrs. Shales would not leave me, but slept in the cottage. I had very little doubt
that the Raxton people were right in their dreadful guesses about my father. I had very little
doubt that while walking along the cliff, either to or from the cottage, he had reached the
point at the back of the church at the moment of the landslip, and been carried down with it,
and I now felt sure that the shriek you and I both heard was his shriek of terror as he fell.
I bethought me of the jewels that my father's sailor friend was to give him, and searched the
cottage for them. As I could not find them, I felt sure that it was on his return from his
meeting with his sailor friend, when the jewels were upon him, that he fell with the landslip.'

Again Winnie paused as if awaiting some question, or at least some remark from me.

'Did you make no inquiries about me?' I said.

'Oh yes,' said she; 'my grief at the loss of my father was very much increased by my not being
able to see you. Mrs. Shales told me that you were ill--very ill. And altogether, you may imagine
my misery. Day after day I got worse and worse news of you. 'And day after day it became more
and more certain, that my father had perished in the way people supposed. I used to spend most
of the day on the sands, gazing at the landslip, and searching for my father's body. Every
one tried to persuade me to give up my search, as it was hopeless, for his body was certain
to be buried deep under the new tongue of land.'

'But you still continued your search, Winnie?' I said, remembering every word Dr. Mivart had
told me in connection with her being found by the fishermen.

'Yes, I found it impossible not to go on with it. But one morning after there had been a great
storm followed by a further settlement of the landslip, I went out alone on the cliffs. I said
to myself, "This shall be my last search." By this time the news of your illness and the anxiety
I felt about you helped much in blunting the anxiety I felt about my father's loss. But on
this very morning I am speaking of something very extraordinary happened.

'Don't tell me, Winnie. For God's sake, don't tell me! It will disturb you; it will make you
ill again.'

She looked at me in evident astonishment at my words.

'Don't tell you, Henry? Why, there is nothing to tell,' said she. 'As I was walking along the
sands, looking at the new tongue of land made by the landslip, I seem to have lost consciousness.'

'And you don't know what caused this?'

'Not in the least; unless it was my anxiety and want of sleep. This was the beginning of the
long illness that I spoke of, and I seem to have remained quite without consciousness until
a few weeks ago. I often try to make my mind bring back the circumstances under which I lost
consciousness. I throw my thoughts, so to speak, upon a wall of darkness, and they come reeling
back  like waves that are dashed against a cliff.'

'Then don't do so any more, Winnie. I know enough of such matters to tell you confidently that
you never will recall the incidents connected with your collapse, and that the endeavour to
do so is really injurious to you. What interests me very much more is to know the circumstances
under which you came to yourself. I am dying with impatience to know all about that.'

II

'When I came to myself,' said Winifred, 'I was in a world as new and strange and wonderful
as that in which Christopher Sly found himself when he woke up to his new life in Shakespeare's
play.'

She paused. She little thought how my flesh kindled with impatience.

'Yes, Winnie,' I said; 'you are going to tell me how, and where, and when you were restored
to life--regained your consciousness, I mean--unless it will too deeply agitate you to tell me.'

'It would not agitate me in the least, Henry, to tell you all about it. But it is a long story,
and this seems a strange place in which to tell it, surrounded by these glorious peaks and
covered by this roof of sunrise. But do you tell me all about yourself, all about your illness,
which seems to have been a dreadful one.'

My story, indeed! What was there in my story that I could or dare tell her? My story would
have to be all about herself, and the tragedy of the supposed curse, and the terrible seizures
from which she had recovered, and of which she must never know. I set to work to persuade her
to tell me all she knew.

At last she yielded, and said, 'Well, I awoke as from a deep sleep, and found myself lying
on a couch, with a man's face bending over mine. I could not help exclaiming, "Henry!'"

'Then did he resemble me?' I asked.

'Only in this--that in his eyes there was the expression which has always appealed to me more
than any other expression, whether in human eyes or in the eyes of animals. I mean the pleading,
yearning expression of loneliness that there was in your eyes when they were the eyes of a
little, lame boy who could not get up the gangways without me.'

'Ah, the egotism of love!' I exclaimed. 'You mean, Winnie, that expression which my unlucky
eyes had lost when we met upon the sands after our childhood was passed.'

'But which love,' said she, 'love of Winnie, sorrow for the loss of Winnie, have brought back,
increased a thousandfold, till it gives me pain and yet a delicious pain to look into them.
Oh, Henry, I can't go on; I really can't, if you look--'

She burst into tears.

When she got calmer she proceeded.

'It was only in the expression of your eyes that he resembled you. He was much older, and wore
spectacles. He, on his part, gave a start when he looked into my eyes. It seemed to me that
he had been expecting to see something in them which he did not find there, and was a little
disappointed. I then heard voices in the room, which was evidently, from the sound of the voices,
a large room, and I looked round. I saw that there was another couch close to mine, but nearly
hidden from view by a large screen between the two couches. Evidently a woman was lying on
the other couch, for I could see her feet; she was a tall woman, for her feet reached out much
beyond my own.'

'Good heavens, Winnie,' I exclaimed, 'what on earth is coming? But I promised not to interrupt
you. Pray go on, I am all impatience.'

'Well, at the sound of the voices the gentleman started, and seemed much alarmed--alarmed on
my account, I thought.

'I then heard a voice say, "A most successful experiment. Look at the face of this other patient,
and see the expression on it."

'The gentleman bent over me, and hurriedly raised me from the couch, and then fairly carried
me out of the room. But you seem very excited, Henry, you have turned quite pale.'

It would have been wonderful if I had not turned pale. So deeply burnt into my brain had been
the picture I had imagined of Winnie dead and in a pauper's grave that even now, with Winnie
in my arms, it all came to me, and I seemed to see her lying in a pauper's shroud, and being
restored to life, and I said to her, 'Did you observe--did you observe your dress, Winnie?'

She answered my question by a little laugh. 'Did I observe my dress at such a moment? Well,
I knew you could be satirical on my sex when you are in the mood, but, Henry, there are moments,
I assure you, when the first thing a woman observes is not her dress, and this was one. Afterwards
I did observe it, and I can tell you what it was. It was a walking-dress. Perhaps,' said she,
with a smile, 'perhaps you would like to know the material? But really I have forgotten that.'
'Pardon my idle question, Winnie--pray go on. I will interrupt you no more.'

'Oh, you will interrupt me no more! We shall see. The gentleman then led me through a passage
of some length.'

'Do describe it!'

'I felt quite sure you would interrupt me no more. Well! The dim light in the windows made
me guess I was in an old house, and from the sweet smell of hay and wild-flowers I thought
we were near the Wilderness, at Raxton. I could only imagine that I had fallen insensible on
the sands and been taken to Raxton Hall.'

'Ah! that's where you ought to have been taken.' I could not help exclaiming.

'Surely not,' said Winnie.

'Why?'

'Your mother! But why have you turned so angry?'

In spite of all that I had lately witnessed of my mother's sufferings from remorse, in spite
of all the deep and genuine pity that those sufferings had drawn from me, Winnie's words struck
deeper than any pity for any creature but herself, and for a moment my soul rose against my
mother again.

'Go on, Winnie, pray go on,' I said.

'You will make me talk about myself,' said Winifred, 'when I so much want to hear all about
you. This is what I call the self-indulgence of love. Well, then, the gentleman and I mounted
some steps and then we entered a tapestried room. The windows--they were quaint and old-fashioned
casements--were open, and the sunlight was pouring through them. I then saw at once that I
was not anywhere near Raxton. Besides, there was no sea-smell mixed with the perfumes of the
flowers and the songs of the birds. That I was not near Raxton, very much amazed me, you may
be sure. And then the room was so new to me and so strange. I had never been in an artist's
studio, but Sinfi had talked to me of such places, and there were many signs that I was in
a studio now.'

'A studio! And not in London! Describe it, Winnie,' I said.

Although she had told me that the house was in the country, my mind flew at once to Wilderspin's
studio. 'You say that the gentleman was not young, but that he had an expression of sorrow
in his eyes. Had he long iron-grey hair, and was he dressed--dressed, like a--like a shiny
Quaker?' So full was my mind of Mrs. Gudgeon's story that I was positively using her language.

'Like a what?' exclaimed Winnie. 'Really, Henry, you have become very eccentric since our parting.
The gentleman had not iron-grey hair, and he was not dressed in the least like a Quaker, unless
a loose, brown lounge coat tossed on anyhow over a waistcoat and trousers of the same colour
is the costume of a shiny Quaker. But it was the room you asked me to describe. There were
pictures on the walls, and there were two easels, and on one of them I saw a picture. The gentleman
led me to a strange and very beautiful piece of furniture. If I attempted to describe it I
should call it a divan, under a gorgeous kind of awning ornamented with Chinese figures in
ivory and precious stones. Now, isn't it exactly like an Arabian Nights story, Henry?'

'Yes, yes, Winnie; but pray go on. What did the gentleman do?'

'He drew a chair towards me, and without speaking looked into my face again. The expression
in his eyes drew me towards him, as it had at first done when I awoke from my trance; it drew
me towards him partly because it said, "I am lonely and in sorrow," and partly from another
cause which I could not understand and could never define, howsoever I might try. "Where am
I?" I said; "I remember nothing since I fell on the sands. Where is Henry? Is he better or
worse? Can you tell me?" The gentleman said, "The friend you inquire about is a long way from
here, and you are a long way from Raxton." I asked him why I was a long way from Raxton, and
said, "Who brought me here? Do, please, tell me what it means. I am amongst friends--of that
I am sure; there is something in your voice which assures me of that; but do tell me what this
mystery means." "You are indeed among friends," he said. Then looking at me with an expression
of great kindness, he continued, "It would be difficult to imagine where you could go without
finding friends, Miss Wynne."'

'Then he knew who you were, Winnie?' I said.

'Yes, he knew who I was,' said she, looking meditatively across the hills as though my query
had raised in her own mind some question which had newly presented itself. 'The gentleman told
me that I had been very ill and was now recovered, but not so entirely recovered at present
that I could with safety be burthened and perplexed with the long story of my illness and what
had brought me there. And when he concluded by saying, "You are here for your good," I exclaimed,
"Ah, yes; no need for me to be told that," for his voice convinced me that it was so. "But
surely you can tell me something. Where is Henry? Is he still ill?" I said. He told me that
he believed you to be perfectly well, and that you had lately been living in Wales, but had
now gone to Japan. "Henry lately in Wales! now gone to Japan!" I exclaimed, "and he was not
with me during the illness that you say I have just recovered from?"'

'Winnie,' I said, 'it was no wonder you asked those questions, but you will soon know all.'

Whilst Winnie had been talking my mind had been partly occupied with words that fell from her
about the voice of her mysterious rescuer. They seemed to recall something.

'You were saying, Winnie, that the gentleman had a peculiarly musical voice,' I said.

'So musical,' she replied, 'that it seemed to delight and charm, not my mind only, but every
nerve in my body.'

'Could you describe it?'

'Describe a voice,' she said, laughing. 'Who could describe a voice?'

'You, Winnie; only you. Do describe it.'

'I wonder,' she said, 'whether you remember our first walk along the Raxton road, when I made
invidious comparison between the voices of birds and the voices of men and women?'

'Indeed I do,' I said. 'I remember how you suggested that among the birds the rooks only could
listen without offence to the cackle of a crowd of people.'

'Well, Henry, I can only give you an idea of the gentleman's voice by saying that the most
fastidious blackbirds and thrushes that ever lived would have liked it. Indeed they did seem
to like it, as I afterwards thought, when I took walks with him. It was music in every variety
of tone; and, besides, it seemed to me that this music was enriched by a tone which I had learnt
from your own dear voice as a child, the tone which sorrow can give and nothing else. The listener
while he was speaking felt so drawn towards him as to love the man who spoke. When his voice
ceased, some part of his attraction ceased. But the moment the voice was again heard the magic
of the man returned as strong as ever.'

III

For some time during Winnie's narrative glimmerings of the gentleman's identity had been coming
to me, and what she said of the voice seemed to be turning these glimmerings into shafts of
light. I was now in a state of the greatest impatience to verify my surmise. But this only
gave a sharper edge to my intense curiosity as to how she had been rescued by him.

'Winnie,' I said, 'you have said nothing about his appearance. Could you describe his face?'

'Describe his face?' said Winnie. 'If I were a painter I could paint it from memory. But who
can paint a face in words?'

Then she launched into a description of the gentleman's appearance, and gave me a specimen
of that 'objective' power which used to amaze me as a child but which I afterwards found was
a speciality of the girls of Wales.

'I should like a description of him feature by feature,' I said.

She laughed, and said, 'I suppose I must begin with his forehead then. It was almost of the
tone of marble, and contrasted, but not too violently, with the thin crop of dark hair slightly
curling round the temples, which were partly bald. The forehead in its form was so perfect
that it seemed to shed its own beauty over all the other features; it prevented me from noticing,
as I afterwards did, that these other features--the features below the eyes, were not in themselves
beautiful. The eyes, which looked at me through spectacles, were of a colour between hazel
and blue-grey, but there were lights shining within them which were neither grey, nor hazel,
nor blue--wonderful lights. And it was to these indescribable lights, moving and alive in the
deeps of the pupils, that his face owed its extraordinary attractiveness. Have I sufficiently
described him? or am I to go on taking his face to pieces for you?'

'Go on, Winnie--pray go on.'

'Well, then, between the eyes, across the top of the nose, where the bridge of the spectacles
rested, there was a strongly marked indented line which had the appearance of having been made
by long-continued pressure of the spectacle frame. Am I still to go on?'

'Yes, yes.'

'The beauty of the face, as I said before, was entirely confined to the upper portion. It did
not extend lower than the cheek-bones, which were well shaped.'

'The mouth, Winnie? Describe that, and then I need not ask you his name, though perhaps you
don't know it yourself.'

'A dark brown moustache covered the mouth. I have always thought that a mouth is unattractive
if the lips are so close to the teeth that they seem to stick to them; and yet what a kind
woman Mrs. Shales is, and her mouth is of this kind. But, on the other hand, where the space
between the teeth and the lips is too great no mouth can be called beautiful, I think. Now
though the mouth of the gentleman was not ill-cut, the lips were too far from the teeth, I
thought; they were too loose, a little baggy, in short. And when he laughed--'

'What about that, Winnie? I specially want to know about his laugh.'

'Then I will tell you. When he laughed his teeth were a little too much seen; and this gave
the mouth a somewhat satirical expression.'

'Winnie,' I said, 'there is no need now for you to tell me the name of the gentleman. In a
few sentences you have described him better than I could have done in a hundred.'

'And certainly there is no reason why I should not tell you his name,' she said, laughing,
'for if there is a word that is musical in my ears, it is the name of him whose voice is music--D'Arcy.
When he told me that I should know everything in time, and that there was nothing for me to
know except that which would give me comfort, and said, "You confide in me!" I could only answer,
"Who would not confide in you? I will wait patiently until you tell me what you have to tell."
"Then," said he, "the best thing you can do is to lie down for an hour or two on that divan
and rest yourself, and go to sleep if you can, while I go and attend to certain affairs that
need me." He then left the room. I was glad to be alone, for I was terribly tired. I felt as
though I had been taking violent bodily exercise, but without feeling the staying power that
Snowdon air can give. I lay down on the divan, and must have fallen asleep immediately. When
I woke I found the same kind face near me, and the same kind eyes watching me. Mr. D'Arcy told
me that I had been sleeping for two hours, and that it had, he hoped, much refreshed me. He
told me also that he took a constitutional walk every day, and asked me if I would accompany
him. I said, "Yes, I should like to do so." At this moment there passed the window some railway
men leaving some luggage. On seeing them Mr. D'Arcy said, "I see that I must leave you for
a minute or two to look after a package of canvases that has just come from my assistant in
London," and he left me. When I was left alone I had an opportunity of observing the room.
The walls were covered with old faded tapestry, so faded indeed that its general effect was
that of a dull grey texture. On looking at it closely I found that it told the story of Samson.
Every piece of furniture seemed to me to be a rare curiosity.'

'Now, Winnie,' I said, 'I am not going to interrupt you any more. I want to hear your story
as an unbroken narrative.'

IV

'Well,' said Winnie, 'after a while Mr. D'Arcy returned and told me that he was now ready to
take me for a stroll across the meadows, saying, "The doctor told me that, at first, your walks
must be short; so while you go to your room I will get Mrs. Titwing in for my usual consultation
about our frugal meal."

'"My room," I said, "my room, and Mrs. Titwing; who's--"

'"Ha! I quite forgot myself," he said, with an air of vexation, which he tried, I thought,
to conceal. "I will ring for Mrs. Titwing--the housekeeper--and she will take you to your room."

'He walked towards the bell, but before reaching it he stopped as if arrested by a sudden thought.
Then he said, "I will go to the housekeeper's room and speak to Mrs. Titwing there. I shall
be back in a minute." And he passed from the room through the door by which he and I had first
entered.

'Scarcely had the door closed behind him before a woman entered by another door opposite to
it. She was about the common height, slender, and of an extremely youthful figure for a woman
of middle age. Her bright-complexioned face, lit by two watery blue eyes, was pleasant to look
upon. It was none the less pleasant because it showed clearly that she was as guileless as a child.

'I knew at once that she was the person--the housekeeper--that Mr. D'Arcy had gone to seek
at the other side of the house. Evidently she had come upon me unexpectedly, for she gave a
violent start, then she murmured to herself,

'"So it's all over, and all went off well." she said. Then she walked quietly towards me and
threw her arms round me and kissed me, saying, "Dear child, I am so glad."

'The tone of voice in which she spoke to me was exactly that of a nurse speaking to a little child.

'I was so taken by surprise that I pulled myself from her embrace with some force. The poor
woman looked at me in a hurt way and then said,

'"I beg your pardon, miss. I didn't notice at first how--how changed you are. The look in your
eyes makes me feel that you are not the same person, and that I have done quite wrong."

'While she was speaking, Mr. D'Arcy had re-entered the room by the door by which he went out.
He had evidently heard the housekeeper's words.

'"Miss Wynne," he said, "this is Mrs. Titwing, my excellent housekeeper. She has been attending
you during your illness; but your weakness was so great that you were unconscious of all her
kindness."

'I went up to her and kissed her rosy cheek, at which she began to cry a little. I afterwards
found that she was in the habit of crying a little on most occasions.

'"Will you, then, kindly show me my room?" I said to her. But as she turned round to lead the
way to the room, Mr. D'Arcy said to her,

'"Before you show Miss Wynne the way, I should like one word with you, Mrs. Titwing, in your
room, about the arrangements for the day."

'The two passed out of the room, and again I was left to myself and my own thoughts.'

V

'Evidently there was some mystery about me,' said Winifred, continuing her story. 'But the
more I tried to think it out the more puzzling it seemed. How had I been conveyed to this strange
new place? Who was the wizard whose eyes and whose voice began to enslave me? and what time
had passed since he caught me up on Raxton sands? It seemed exactly like one of those Arabian
Nights stories which you and I used to read together when we were children. The waking up on
the couch, the sight of the end of the other couch behind the screen, and the tall woman's
feet upon it, the voices from unseen persons in the room, and above all the strange magic of
him who seemed to be the directing genie of the story--all would have seemed to me unreal had
it not been for the prosaic figure of Mrs. Titwing. About her there could not possibly be any
mystery; she was what Miss Dalrymple would have called "the very embodiment of British commonplace,"
and when, after a minute or two, she returned with Mr. D'Arcy, I went and kissed her again
from sheer delight of feeling the touch of her real, solid; commonplace cheek, and to breathe
the commonplace smell of scented soap. Her bearing, however, towards me had become entirely
changed since she had gone out of the room. She did not return the kiss, but said, "Shall I
show you the way, miss?" and led the way out.

'She took me through the same dark passage by which I had entered, and then I found myself
in a large bedroom with low panelled walls, in the middle of which was a vast antique bedstead
made of black carved oak, and every bit of furniture in the room seemed as old as the bedstead.
Over the mantelpiece was an old picture in a carved oak frame, a Madonna and Child, the beauty
of which fascinated me. I remember that on the bottom of the frame was written in printed letters
the name "Chiaro dell' Erma." I was surprised to find in the room another walking-dress, not
new, but slightly worn, laid out ready for me to put on. I lifted it up and looked at it. I
saw at a glance that it would most likely fit me like a glove.

'"Whose dress is this?" I said.

'"It's yours, miss."

'"Mine? But how came it mine?"

'"Oh, please don't ask me any questions, miss," she said. "Please ask Mr. D'Arcy, miss; he
knows all about it. I am only the housekeeper, miss."

'"Mr. D'Arcy knows all about my dress!" I said. "Why, what on earth has Mr. D'Arcy to do with
my dress?"

'"Please don't ask me any more questions, miss," she said. "Pray don't. Mr. D'Arcy is a very
kind man; I am sure nobody has ever heard me say but what he is a very kind man; but if you
do what he says you are not to do, if you talk about what he says you are not to talk about,
he is frightful, he is awful. He calls you a chattering old--I don't know what he won't call
you. And, of course, I know you are a lady, miss. Of course you look a lady, miss, when you
are dressed like one. But then, you see, when I first saw you, you were not dressed as you
are now, and at first sight, of course, we go by the dress a good deal, you know. But Mr. D'Arcy
needn't be afraid I shall not treat you like a lady, miss. I'm only a housekeeper now, though,
of course, I was once very different--very different indeed. But, of course, anybody has only
to look at you to see you are a lady, and, besides, Mr. D'Arcy says you are a lady, and that
is quite enough."

'At this moment there came through the door--it was ajar--Mr. D'Arcy's voice from the distance,
so loud and clear that every word could be heard.

'"Mrs. Titwing, why do you stay chattering there, preventing Miss Wynne from getting ready?
You know we are going out for a walk together."

'"Oh Lord, miss!" said the poor woman in a frightened tone, "I must go. Tell him I didn't chatter--tell
him you asked me questions and I was obliged to answer them."

'The mysteries around me were thickening every moment. What did this prattling woman mean about
the dress in which she had at first seen me? Was the dress in which she had first seen me so
squalid that it had affected her simple imagination? What had become of me after I had sunk
down on Raxton sands, and why was I left neglected by every one? I knew you were ill after
the landslip, but Mr. D'Arcy had just told me that you had since been well enough to go to
Wales and afterwards to Japan.

'I put on the dress and soon followed her. When I reached the tapestried room there was Mr.
D'Arcy talking to her in a voice so gentle, tender, and caressing, that it seemed impossible
the rough voice I had heard bellowing through the passage could have come from the same mouth,
and Mrs. Titwing was looking into his face with the delighted smile of a child who was being
forgiven by its father for some trifling offence. As I stood and looked at them I said to myself,
"Truly I am in a land of wonders."'

VI

'Mr. D'Arcy and I,' said Winifred, 'went out of the house at the back, walked across a roughly
paved stable-yard, and passed through a gate and entered a meadow. Then we walked along a stream
about as wide as one of our Welsh brooks, but I found it to be a backwater connected with a
river. For some time neither of us spoke a word. He seemed lost in thought, and my mind was
busy with what I intended to say to him, for I was fully determined to get some light thrown
upon the mystery.

'When we reached the river bank we turned towards the left, and walked until we reached a weir,
and there we sat down upon a fallen willow tree, the inside of which was all touchwood. Then
he said,

'"You are silent, Miss Wynne."

'"And you are silent," I said.

'"My silence is easily explained," he said. "I was waiting to hear some remark fall from you
as to these meadows and the river, which you have seen so often."

'"Which I see now for the first time, you mean."

'"Miss Wynne," he said, looking earnestly in my face, "you and I have taken this walk together
nearly every day for months."

'"That," I said, "is--is quite impossible."

'"It is true," he said. And then again we sat silent.

'Then I said to him with great firmness, "Mr. D'Arcy, I'm only a peasant girl, but I'm Welsh;
I have faith in you, faith in your goodness and faith in your kindness to me; but I must insist
upon knowing how I came here, and how you and I were brought together."

'He smiled, and said, "I was right in thinking that your face expresses a good deal of what
we call character. I should have preferred waiting for a day or two before relating all I have
to tell," he said, "in answer to what you ask, but as you insist upon having it now," with
a playful kind of smile, "it would be ill-bred for me to insist that you must wait. But before
I begin, would it not be better if you were to tell me something of what occurred to yourself
when you were taken ill at Raxton?"

'"Then will your story begin where mine breaks off?" I said.

'"We shall see that," he said, "as soon as you have ended yours."

'"Do you know Raxton?" I said.

'At first he seemed to hesitate about his reply, and then said,

'"No, I do not."

'I then told him in as few words as I could our adventures on the sands on the night of the
landslip, and my search for my father's body afterwards, until I suddenly sank down in a fit.
When I had finished Mr. D'Arcy was silent, and was evidently lost in thought. At last he said,

'"My story, I perceive, cannot begin where yours breaks off. I first became acquainted with
you in the studio of a famous painter named Wilderspin, one of the noblest-minded and most
admirable men now breathing, but a great eccentric."

'"Why, Mr. D'Arcy, I never was in a studio in my life until to-day," I said.

'"You mean, Miss Wynne, that you were not consciously there," he said. "But in that studio
you certainly were, and the artist, who reverenced you as a being from another world, was painting
your face in a beautiful picture. While he was doing this you were taken seriously ill, and
your life was despaired of. It was then that I brought you into the country, and here you have
been living and benefiting by the kind services of Mrs. Titwing for a long time."

'"And you know nothing of my history previously to seeing me in the London studio?" I asked.

'"All that I could ever learn about that," said he, in what seemed to me a rather evasive tone,
"I had to gather from the incoherent and rambling talk of Wilderspin, a religious enthusiast
whose genius is very nearly akin to mania. He was so struck by you that he actually believed
you to be not a corporeal woman at all; he believed you had been sent from the spirit-world
by his dead mother to enable him to paint a great picture."

'"Oh, I must see him, and make him tell me all," I said.

'"Yes," said he, "but not yet."

'What Mr. D'Arcy told me,' said Winnie, 'affected me so deeply that I remained silent for a
long time. Then came a thought which made me say,

'"You. too, are a painter, Mr. D'Arcy?"

'"Yes," he said.

'"During the months that I have been living here have you used me as your model?"

'"No; but that was not because I did not wish to do so."

'Then he suddenly looked in my face and said,

'"Is your family entirely Welsh, Miss Wynne?"

'"Entirely," I said. "But why did you not use me as your model, Mr. D'Arcy?"

'"Poor Wilderspin believed you to be a spiritual body," he said; "I did not. I knew that you
were a young lady in an unconscious condition. To have painted you in such a condition and
without the possibility of getting your consent would have been sacrilege, even if I had painted
you as a Madonna."

'I could not speak, his words and tone were so tender. He broke the silence by saying,

'"Miss Wynne, there is one thing in connection with you that puzzles me very much. You speak
of yourself as though you were a kind of Welsh peasant girl, and yet your conversation--well,
I mustn't tell you what I think of that."

'This made me laugh outright, for ladies who called on Miss Dalrymple used to make the same remark.

'"Mr. D'Arcy," I said, "you are harbouring the greatest little impostor in the British Islands.
I am the mere mocking-bird of one of the most cultivated women living. My true note is that
of a simple Welsh bird."

'"A Welsh warbler," he said, with a smile, "but who was the original of the impostor?"

'"Miss Dalrymple," I said.

'"Miss Dalrymple, the writer!--why I knew her years ago--before you were born."

'Our talk had been so lively that we had not noticed the passage of time, nor had we noticed
that the clouds had been gathering for a summer shower. Suddenly the rain fell heavily; although
we ran to the house, we were quite wet by the time we got in.

'We found poor Mrs. Titwing in a great state of excitement on account of the rain, and also
because the dinner had been waiting for nearly an hour. That scamper in the rain, and the laughing
and joking at our predicament, seemed to bring us closer together than anything else could
have done. Mr. D'Arcy told Mrs. Titwing to take me to my room to change my dress for dinner,
and he seemed quite disappointed when I told him that I could eat no dinner, and would like
to retire to my room for the night. The fact was that the events of that wonderful day had
exhausted all my powers; every nerve within me seemed crying out for sleep.

'I went to my room, dismissed Mrs. Titwing, and went to bed at once. But no sooner had I got
into bed than I began to perceive that, instead of sleep, a long wakeful night was before me.
Mr. D'Arcy's story about finding me in a London studio took entire possession of my mind. How
did I get there? Where had I been and what had been my adventures before I got there? Why did
the painter, in whose studio Mr. D'Arcy found me, believe that I had been super-naturally sent
to him? I shuddered as a thousand dreadful thoughts flowed into my mind. "Mr. D'Arcy," I said
to myself, "must know more than he has told me." Then, of course, came thoughts about you.
I wondered why you had allowed me to drift away from you in this manner. True, I was probably
removed from Raxton immediately after my illness, when you were very ill, as I knew; but then
you had recovered!'

VII

When Winifred reached this point in her story, I said,

'And so you wondered what had become of me from your last seeing me down to your waking up
in Mr. D'Arcy's house?'

'Yes, yes, Henry. Do tell me what you were doing all that time.'

As she said these words the whole tragedy of my life returned to me in one moment, and yet
in that moment I lived over again every dreadful incident and every dreadful detail. The spectacle
on the sands, the search for her in North Wales, the meeting in the cottage, the frightful
sight as she leapt away from me on Snowdon, the heart-breaking search for her among the mountains,
the sound of her voice, singing by the theatre portico in the rain, the search for her in the
hideous London streets, the scenes in the studios, the soul-blasting drama in Primrose Court--all
came upon me in such a succession of realities that the beautiful radiant creature now talking
to me seemed impossible except as a figure in a dream. And she was asking me to tell her what
I had been doing during all these months of nightmare. But I knew that I never could tell her,
either now or at any future time. I knew that to tell her would be to kill her.

'Winnie,' I said, 'I will tell you all about myself, but I must hear your story first. The
faster you get on with that the sooner you will hear what I have to tell.'

'Then I will get on fast,' said she. 'After a while my thoughts, as I tossed in my bed, turned
from the past to the future. What was the future that was lying before me? For months I had
evidently been living on the charity of Mr. D'Arcy. My only excuse for having done so was that
I was entirely unconscious of it; but now that I did know the relations between us I must of
course end them at once. But what was I to do? Whither was I to go? Besides Miss Dalrymple,
whose address I did not know, I had no friends except Sinfi Lovell and the Gypsies and a few
Welsh farmers. To live upon my benefactor's generous charity now that I was conscious of it
was, I felt, impossible.

'I was penniless. I had not even money to pay my railway fare to any part of England. There
was only one thing for me to do--write to you. When I rose in the morning it was with the full
determination to write to you at once. I had been told by Mrs. Titwing that Mr. D'Arcy always
breakfasted alone in a little anteroom adjoining his bedroom, and always breakfasted late.
My breakfast, she said, would be prepared in what she called the little green room. And when
I left my bedroom, dressed in a morning dress that was carefully laid out for me, I found the
housekeeper moving about in the passages. She conducted me to the little green room. On the
walls were two looking-glasses in old black oak frames carved with knights at tilt and angels'
heads hovering above them. Each frame contained two circular mirrors surrounded by painted
designs telling the story of the Holy Grail. The room was furnished with quaint sofas and chairs
on which beautiful little old-fashioned designs were painted. She told me that as I had not
named an hour for breakfasting I should have to wait about twenty minutes.

'In one corner of the room was a rather large whatnot, on which lay one or two French novels
in green and yellow paper covers and a few daily and weekly newspapers, which I went and turned
over. Among them I was startled to find a paper called the Raxton Gazette. But I saw at once
how it got there, for written on the margin at the top of the paper was the address, "Dr. Mivart,
Wimpole Street, London." Mr. D'Arcy had told me that the gentleman whose voice I heard behind
the screen was the medical man who attended to me during my illness, and it now suddenly flashed
upon my mind that at Raxton there was a Dr. Mivart, though I had never seen him during my stay
there. These were, no doubt, one and the same person, and some one from Raxton had posted the
newspaper to the doctor's house in London.

'I looked down the columns of the paper with a very lively interest, and my eye was soon caught
by a paragraph encircled by a thick blue pencil mark. It gave from a paper called the London
Satirist what professed to be a long account of you, in which it was said that you were living
in a bungalow in Wales with a Gypsy girl.'

When Winifred said this I forgot my promise not to interrupt her narrative, and exclaimed,

'And you believed this infamous libel, Winnie?'

'To say that I believed it as a simple statement of fact would of course be wrong. I never
doubted you loved me as a child.'

'As a child! Do you then think that I did not love you that night on Raxton sands?'

'I did not doubt that you loved me then. But wealth, I had been told, is so demoralising, and
I thought your never coming forward to find me and protect me in my illness might have something
to do with inconstancy. Anyhow, these thoughts combined with my dread of your mother to prevent
me from writing to you.'

'Winnie, Winnie!' I said, 'these theories of the so-called advanced thinkers, whom your aunt
taught you to believe in--these ideas that love and wealth cannot exist together, are prejudices
as narrow and as blind as those of an opposite kind which have sapped the natures of certain
members of my own family.'

'The sight of your dear sad face when I first saw it here was proof enough of that,' she said.
'As your life was said to be that of a wanderer, I did not care to write to Raxton, and I did
not know where to address you. What I had read in the newspaper, I need not tell you, troubled
me greatly. I cried bitterly, and made but a poor breakfast. After it was over Mr. D'Arcy entered
the room, and shook me warmly by the hand. He saw that I had been crying, and he stood silent
and seemed to be asking himself the cause. Drawing a chair towards me, and taking a seat, he said,

'"I fear you have not slept well, Miss Wynne."

'"Not very well," I answered. Then, looking at him, I said, "Mr. D'Arcy, I have something to
say to you, and this is the moment for saying it."

'He gave a startled look, as though he guessed what I was going to say.

'"And I have something to say to you, Miss Wynne," he said, smiling, "and this seems the proper
time for saying it. Up to the last few weeks a young gentleman from Oxford has been acting
as my secretary. He has now left me, and I am seeking another. His duties, I must say, have
not been what would generally be called severe. I write most of my own letters, though not
all, and my correspondence is far from being large. His chief duty has been that of reading
to me in the evening. For many years my eyes have not been so strong as a painter's ought to
be, and the oculist whom I consulted told me that the strain of the painter's work was quite
as much as my eyes ought to bear, and that I could not afford much eyesight for reading purposes.
I am passionately fond of reading. To be without the pleasure that books can afford me would
be to make me miserable, and I have looked upon my secretary's duty of reading aloud to me
as an important one. If you would take his place you would be conferring the greatest service
upon me."

'"Mr. D'Arcy," I said, "I suspect you."

'"Suspect me, Miss Wynne?"

'"I suspect that generous heart of yours. I suspect you are merely inventing a post for me
to fill, because you pity me."

'"No, Miss Wynne; upon my honour this is not so. I will not deny that if it were not in your
power to do me the service that I ask of you, I should still feel the greatest disappointment
if you passed from under this roof. Your scruples about living here as you lived during your
illness--simply as my guest--I understand, but do not approve. They show that you are not quite
so free from the bondage of custom as I should like every friend of mine to be. The tie of
friendship is, in my judgment, the strongest of all ties, stronger than that of blood, because
it springs from the natural kinship of soul to soul, and there is no reason in the world why
I should not offer you a home as a friend, or why, if the circumstances of our lives were reversed,
you should not offer me one. But in this case it is the fact that the service I am asking you
to render me is greater than any service I can render you."

'I was so deeply touched by his words and by his way of speaking them, that my lips trembled,
and I could make no reply.

'"It is a shame," he said, "for me to talk about business so soon after your recovery. Let
us leave the matter for the moment, and come to me in the studio during the morning, and let
me show you the pictures I am painting, and some of my choice things."

'The morning wore on, and still I sat pondering over the situation in which I found myself.
The servant came and removed the breakfast things, and her furtive glances at me showed that
I was an object at once familiar and strange to her. But very little attention did I pay to
her, in such a whirl of thoughts as I then was. The moment that one course of action seemed
to me the best, the very opposite would occur to me as being the best. However, I was determined
to know from Mr. D'Arcy, and at once, what was the state in which I was when I was brought
to this place, and what had been the course of my life during my stay here. Mr. D'Arcy had
told me that, for reasons which he so touchingly alluded to, he had not used me as a model.
How, then, had my time been passed? To question poor Mrs. Titwing would only be to frighten
her. I would ask Mr. D'Arcy for a full confession.

'Mrs. Titwing came into the room. She began pulling at the ribbon of her black silk apron as
though she wanted to speak and could not find the proper words. At last she said,

'"I hope, miss, there have been no words between you and Mr. D'Arcy?"

''"Words between me and Mr. D'Arcy? What do you mean?" I asked.

'"He seems very much upset, miss, about something. He is not at his easel, but keeps walking
about the studio, and every now and then he asks where you are. I'm sure he used to dote on
you when you were a child, miss."

'"When I was a child?" I said, laughing. "But I see what it is. I have been very neglectful.
I promised to go into the studio to see the pictures, and he is, of course, impatient at my
keeping him waiting. I will go to him at once," and I went.

'When I entered the studio he turned quickly round and said,

'"Well?"

'"You were so kind," I said, "as to invite me to see your treasures."

'"To be sure," he said. "I thought you came to give your decision."

'He then showed me the curious divan upon which I had rested the day before, and explained
to me the meaning of the carved designs.'

VIII

Winifred described the designs on the divan so vividly that I could almost see them. But what
interested me was the painter, not his surroundings; and she now seemed to grow weary of talking
about herself.

'Did he,' I said, 'did he say anything about--about painters' models?'

'Yes,' she said, 'Mr. D'Arcy took me to an easel and showed me a picture. It was only the half-length
of a woman; but it was a tragedy rendered fully by the expression on one woman's face.

'"I had no idea," I said, "that any picture of a single face could do such work as that. Was
this painted from a model?"

'"Yes," he said, with a smile, which was evidently at my ignorance of art. "It was painted
from life."

'There were four other half-lengths in the room, all of them very beautiful.

'"Two of these," he said, "are copies; the originals have been sold. The other two need still
a few touches to make them complete."

'"And they were all painted from life?" I said.

'"Yes," he said. "Why do you repeat that question?"

'"Because," I said, "although they are all so wonderful and so beautiful in colour, I can see
a great difference between them--I can scarcely say what the difference is. They are evidently
all painted by the same artist, but painted in different moods of the artist's mind."

'"Ah," he said, "I am much interested. Let me see you classify them according to your view.
There are, as you see, two brunettes and two blondes."

'"Yes," I said, "between this grand brunette, to use your own expression, holding a pomegranate
in her hand and the other brunette whose beautiful eyes are glistening and laughing over the
fruit she is holding up, there is the same difference that there is between the blonde's face
under the apple blossoms and the other blonde's face of the figure that is listening to music.
In both faces the difference seems to be that of the soul."

'"The two faces," said he, "in which you see what you call soul are painted from two dear friends
of mine--ladies of high intelligence and great accomplishments, who occasionally honour me
by giving me sittings--the other two are painted from two of the finest hired models to be
found in London."

'"Then," I said, "an artist's success depends a great deal upon his model? I had no idea of
such a thing."

'"It does indeed," he said. "Such success as I have won since my great loss is very largely
owing to those two ladies, one so grand and the other so sweet, whom you are admiring."

'The way in which he spoke the words "since my great loss" almost brought tears into my eyes.
He then went round the room, and explained in a delightful way the various pictures and objects
of interest. I felt that I was preventing him from working, and told him so.

'"You are very thoughtful," he said, "but I can only paint when I feel the impulse within me,
and to-day I am lazy. But while you go and get your luncheon--I do not lunch myself--I must
try to do something. You must have many matters of your own that you would like to attend to.
Will you return to the studio about five o'clock, and let me have your company in another walk?"

'Until five o'clock I was quite alone, and wandered about the house and garden trying my memory
as to whether I could recall something, but in vain. At any other time than this I should no
doubt have found the old house a very fascinating one; but not for two minutes together could
my mind dwell upon anything but the amazing situation in which I found myself. The house was,
I saw, built of grey stone, and as it had seven gables it suggested to me Nathaniel Hawthorne's
famous story, of which my aunt was so fond. Inside I found every room to be more or less interesting.
But what attracted me most, I think, was a series of large attics in which was a number of
enormous oak beams supporting the antique roof. With the sunlight pouring through the windows
and illuminating almost every corner, the place seemed cheerful enough, but I could not help
thinking how ghostly it must look on a moonlight night.

'While the thought was in my mind, a strangle sensation came upon me. I seemed to hear a moan;
it came through the door of the large attic adjoining the one in which I stood, and then I
heard a voice that seemed familiar to me, and yet I could not recall it. It was repeating in
a loud, agonised tone the words of that curse written on the parchment scroll which I picked
up on Raxton sands. I was so astonished that for a long time I could think of nothing else.

IX

'At five o'clock I was going towards the studio to keep my appointment when I met Mr. D'Arcy
in his broad-brimmed felt hat, ready and waiting for me to take the proposed walk with him.

'Oh, what a lovely afternoon it was! A Welsh afternoon could not have been lovelier. In fact,
it carried my mind back here. The sun, shining on the buttercups and the grey-tufted standing
grass, made the meadows look as though covered with a tapestry that shifted from grey to lavender,
and then from lavender to gold, as the soft breeze moved over it. And many of the birds were
still in full song; and brilliant as was the music of the skylarks, the blackbirds and thrushes
were so numerous that the music falling from the sky seemed caught and swallowed up by the
music rising from the hedgerows and trees.

'I lingered at one of the gates through which we passed to enjoy the beauty undisturbed by
the motion of my own body.

'"I have often wished," Mr. D'Arcy said, "that I had a tithe of your passion for Nature, and
all your knowledge of Nature. To have been born in London and to have passed one's youth there
is a great loss. Nature has to be learnt, as art has to be learnt, in earliest youth."

'"What makes you know that my chief passion is love of Nature?" I asked.

'"It was," he said, "the one thing you showed during your illness--during your unconscious
condition."

'"And yet I remember nothing of that time," I said. "This gives me an opportunity of asking
you something--an opportunity which I had determined to make for myself before another day
went by."

'"And what is that?" he said, in a tone that betrayed some uneasiness.

'"You have told me how I came here. I now want you to tell me, too, what was my condition when
I came and what was my course of life during all this long period. How did the time pass? What
did I do? I remember nothing."

'"I am glad you are asking me these questions," he said, "for I believe that the more fully
and more exactly I answer them, the better for you and the better for me. Victor Hugo, in one
of his romances, speaks of the pensive somnambulism of the animals. 'Somnambulism,' sometimes
pensive and sometimes playful, is the very phrase I should use in characterising your condition
when you first came here and down to your recovery from that strange illness. But this somnambulism
would every now and then change and pass into a consciousness which I can only compare with
that of a child. But no child that I have ever seen was so bewitchingly child-like as you were.
It was this that made your presence such a priceless boon to me."

'"Priceless boon, Mr. D'Arcy!" I said. "How could such a being as you describe be a priceless
boon to any one?"

'"I will tell you," he replied. "Even before that great sorrow which has made me the loneliest
man upon the earth--even in the days when my animal spirits were considered at times almost
boisterous, I was always at intervals subject to periods of great depression, or rather, I
should say, to periods of ennui. I must either be painting or reading or writing. I had not
the precious faculty of being able on occasions to sit and let the rich waters of life flow
over me. I would yearn for amusement, and search in vain for some object to amuse me. When
you first came I was deeply interested in so extraordinary a case as yours; and after a while,
when the acuteness of my curiosity and the poignancy of my sympathy for you had abated, you
became to me a joy, as a child is a joy in the eyes of its parents."

'"Then your interest in me," I said, with a smile, "was that which you would feel towards a
puppy or a kitten."

'"I perceive that you have a turn for satire," he said, laughing. "I will not deny that I have
an extraordinarily strong passion for watching the movements of animals. I have, to the sorrow
of my neighbours, filled my garden in London with all kinds of purchases from Jamrach's. But
from the moment that I knew you, who combined the fascination of a fawn and a child with that
of a sylph or a fairy, my poor little menagerie was neglected, and what became of its members
I scarcely know. I suppose I am very uncomplimentary to you, but you would have the truth.
The moment that I felt myself threatened by the fiend Ennui I used to tell Mrs. Titwing, who
was in the habit of calling you her baby, to bring you into the studio, and at once the fiend
fled. At last I grew so attached to you that your presence was a positive necessity of my life.
Unless I knew that you were in the studio I could not paint. It was necessary for me at intervals
to look across the room at that divan and see you there amusing yourself--playing with yourself,
so to speak, sometimes like a kitten, sometimes like a child. I would not have parted with
you for the world."

'He did not say he would not now part with me for the world, Henry, and I thought I understood
the meaning of that expression of disappointment which I had observed in his eyes when I first
saw them looking into mine. I thought I understood this extraordinary man--so unlike all others;
I thought I knew why my eyes lost the charm he was now so eloquently describing to me the moment
that they became lighted with what he called self-consciousness.

'After a while I said, "But as I was in such an unconscious state as you describe, how could
you possibly know that a speciality of mine is a love of Nature?"

'"It was only when you were out in the open air that the condition which I have compared to
somnambulism seemed at times to disappear. Then your consciousness seemed to spring up for
a moment and to take heed of what was passing around you. You would sometimes scamper through
the meadows, pluck the wild-flowers and weave them into wreaths round your head, or stand listening
to the birds, or hold out your hands as if to embrace the sunny wind. One day when a friend
of mine, an enthusiastic angler, who comes here, was going down to the river to fish, you showed
the greatest interest in what was going on. The fishing tackle seemed so familiar to you that
my friend put a fishing rod into your hand and you went with him to the river. I do not myself
care for angling, and I was at the time very busy with a picture, but I could not resist the
temptation to follow you. You skipped into the punt with the greatest glee, baited your hook,
adjusted your float on the line, cast it into the water and fished with such skill that you
caught two fish to my friend's one. Observing all these things, I came to the conclusion that
you had lived much in the open air, and other incidents made me know that you were a great
lover of Nature."

'"And you," I said, "must also be a lover of Nature, or you could not find such delight in
watching animals."

'"No," he said, "the interest I take in animals has nothing whatever to do with love of Nature
or study of Nature. They interest me by that unconsciousness of grace which makes them such
a contrast to man."

'We then went into the house. Our talk during our ramble in the fields seemed to remove effectually
all awkwardness and restraint between us.

X

'That day,' said Winnie, 'a determination which had been caused by many a reflection during
the last few hours induced me at dinner to lead the conversation to the subject of pictures
and models. In a few minutes Mr. D'Arcy launched out in an eloquent discourse upon a subject
which was so new to me and so familiar to him.

'"You were saying this morning,  Mr.  D'Arcy," I urged me to tell her what had befallen myself
since we had parted at the cottage door at Raxton. Even had it been possible for me to talk
about myself without touching upon some dangerous incident or another, my impatience to get
at the mystery of mysteries in connection with her and her rescue from Primrose Court was so
great that I could only implore her to tell me what had occurred down to her leaving Hurstcote
Manor, and also what had been the cause of her leaving.

'Well,' said Winnie, 'I am  now going to tell you of an extraordinary thing that happened.
One fine night the moon was so brilliant that after I quitted Mr. D'Arcy I stole out of the
side door into the garden, a favourite place of mine, for old English flowers were mixed with
apple trees and pear trees. I was strolling about the garden, thinking over a thousand things
connected with you, and myself, and Mr. D'Arcy, when I saw stooping over a flower-bed the figure
of a tall woman. I could scarcely believe my eyes, for I had all the while supposed  that,
excepting Mr. D'Arcy, myself, and Mrs. Titwing, the servants were the only occupants of the
place. I turned away, and walked silently through the little wicket into what is called the
home close. As I pondered over the incident, I recalled certain things which singly had produced
no effect on my mind, but which now fitted in with each other, and seemed to open up vistas
of mystery and suspicion. Mysterious looks and gestures on the faces of the servants pointed
to there being some secret that was to be kept from me. I had not given much heed to these
things, but now I could not help connecting them with the appearance of the tall woman in the
garden.

'Some guests arrived next day, and when I pleaded headache Mr. D'Arcy said, "Perhaps you would
rather keep to your own room to-day."

'I told him I should, and I spent the day alone--spent it mainly in thinking about the tall
woman. In the evening I went into the garden, and remained there for a long time, but no tall
woman made her appearance.

'I passed out through the wicket into the home close, and as I walked about in the grass, under
the elms that sprang up from the tall hedge, I thought and thought over what I had seen, but
could come to no explanation. I was standing under a tree, in the shadow which its branches
made, when I became suddenly conscious that the tall woman was close to me. I turned round,
and stood face to face with Sinfi Lovell. The sight of a spectre could not have startled me
more, but the effect of my appearance upon her was greater still. Her face took an expression
that seemed to curdle my blood, and she shrieked, "Father! the curse! Let his children be vagabonds
and beg their bread; let them seek it also out of desolate places." And then she ran towards
the house.

'In a few minutes Mr. D'Arcy came out into the field without his hat, and evidently much agitated.

'"Miss Wynne," he said, "I fear you must have been half frightened to death. Never was there
such an unlucky contretemps."

'"But why is Sinfi Lovell here?" I said, "and why was I not told she was here?"

'"Sinfi is an old friend of mine," he said. "I have been in the habit of using her as a model
for pictures. She came here to sit to me, when she was taken ill. She is subject to fits, as
you have seen. The doctor believed that they were over and would not recur, and I had determined
that to-morrow I would bring you together."

'I made no reply, but walked silently by his side across the field to the little wicket. The
confidence I had reposed in Mr. D'Arcy had been like the confidence a child reposes in its father.

'"Miss Wynne," he said, in a voice full of emotion, "I feel that an unlucky incident has come
between us, and yet if I ever did anything for your good, it was when I decided to postpone
revealing the fact that Sinfi Lovell was under this roof until her cure was so complete and
decisive that you could never by any chance receive the shock that you have now received."

'I felt that my resentment was melting in the music of his words.

'"What caused the fits?" I said. "She talked about being under a curse. What can it mean?"

'"That," he said, "is too long a story for me to tell you now."

'"I know," said I, "that some time ago the tomb of Mr. Aylwin's father was violated by some
undiscovered miscreant, and I know that the words Sinfi uttered just now are the words of a
curse written by the dead man on a piece of parchment, and stolen with a jewel from his tomb.
I have seen the parchment itself, and I know the words well. Her father, Panuel Lovell, is
as innocent of the crime of sacrilege as my poor father was. What could have made her suppose
that she had inherited the curse from her father?"

'"I have no explanation to offer," he said. "As you know so much of the matter and I know so
little, I am inclined to ask you for some explanation of the puzzle."

'I thought over the matter for a minute, and then I said to him, "Sinfi Lovell knows Raxton
as well as Snowdon, and must have been very familiar with the crime. I can only suppose that
she has brooded so long over the enormity of the offence and the appalling words of the curse
that she has actually come at last to believe that poor, simple-minded Panuel Lovell is the
offender, and that she, as his child, has inherited the curse."

'"A most admirable solution of the mystery," he said, his face beaming with delight.'

XII

When Winnie got to this point she said, 'Yes, Henry, poor Sinfi seems in some unaccountable
way to have learnt all about that piece of parchment and the curse written upon it. She has
been under the extraordinary delusion that her own father, poor Panuel Lovell, was the violator
of the tomb, and that she has inherited the curse.'

'Good God, Winnie!' I exclaimed; and when I recalled what I had seen of Sinfi in the cottage,
I was racked with perplexity, pity, and wonder. What could it mean?

'Yes,' said Winifred, 'she has been possessed by this astounding delusion, and it used to bring
on fits which were appalling to witness. They are passed now, however.'

'Is she recovered now?'

'Mr. D'Arcy,' said Winnie, 'assured me that, in the opinion of the doctor, the delusion would
not he permanent, but that Sinfi would soon be entirely restored to health. While Mr. D'Arcy
and I were talking about her Sinfi came through the wicket again. Rushing up to me and seizing
my hand, she said,

'"Oh, Winnie, how I must have skeared you! I dare say Mr. D'Arcy has told you that I've been
subject to fits o' late. It was comin' on you suddint as I did under the tree that brought
it on. I wouldn't let Mr. D'Arcy tell you I wur here until I wur quite sure I should have no
more on 'em, but the doctor said this very day that I wur now quite well."

'My mind ran all night long upon the mystery of Sinfi Lovell. Mr. D'Arcy's explanation of her
appearance at Hurstcote Manor was certainly clear enough, but somehow its very clearness aroused
suspicion--no, I will not say suspicion--misgivings. If he had been able, while he seemed so
frank and open, to keep away from me a secret--I mean the secret of Sinfi Lovell's being concealed
in the house--what secrets might he not be concealing from me about my own mystery? Did he
not know everything that occurred during that period which was a blank in my mind, the period
from my sinking down on the sands to my waking up in his house?

'From the very first, indeed, a feeling of mystery had haunted me. I had often pondered over
every circumstance that attended my waking into life, but that incident which was the most
firmly fixed in my mind was the sight of the feet of a tall woman whose body was hid by the
screen between my couch and the other one. When I asked Mr. D'Arcy about this, he did not say
in so many words that I was suffering from a delusion about those feet, but he talked about
the illusion which generally accompanied a recovery from such illnesses as mine. Now of course
I felt sure that Sinfi was the person I had seen on the couch. But why was she there?

'I did not see Mr. D'Arcy until the afternoon after the guests had left, for in order to avoid
seeing him and them, I took a long stroll by the river and then got into the punt. I had scarcely
done so when Sinfi appeared on the bank and hailed me. I took her into the punt. She was so
entirely herself that I found it difficult to believe in the startling spectacle of the previous
evening, although her expression was careworn, and she certainly looked a little paler than
she used to look when she and I and Rhona Boswell were such great friends; her splendid beauty
and bearing were as striking as ever, I thought. I was expecting every minute that she would
say something about what occurred under the elm tree in the home close. But she did not allude
to it, and therefore I did not. We spent the entire afternoon in reminiscences of Carnarvonshire.
When she told me that she knew you and that you had been there together, and when she told
me the cause of your being there, and told me of your search for me, and all the distress that
came to you on my account, my longing to see you was like a fever.

'But vivid as were the pictures that Sinfi gave me of your search for me, I could not piece
them together in a plain tale. I tried to do so; it was impossible. What had happened to me
after I had become unconscious on the sands in that unaccountable way--why I was found in Wales--how
I could possibly have got there without knowing about it--what had led to my being discovered
by Mr. D'Arcy--discovered in London, above all places, and in a painter's studio--these questions
were with me night and day, and Sinfi was entirely unable to tell me anything about the matter,
unless, as I sometimes half-thought, she was concealing something from me.'

'How could you have suspicions of poor Sinfi?' I said, for I was becoming alarmed at the way
in which these inquiries were absorbing Winnie's mind.

'It is, I know, Henry, a peculiarity of my nature to be extremely confiding until I have once
been deceived, and then to be just as suspicious. Kind as Mr. D'Arcy has been to me, I began
to feel restless in his haven of refuge. I think that he perceived it, for I often found his
eyes fixed upon me with a somewhat inquiring and anxious expression in them. I felt that I
must leave him and go out into the world and take my place in the battle of life.'

'But, Winnie,' I said, 'you don't say that you intended to come to me. Battle of life, indeed!
Where should Winnie stand in that battle except by the side of Henry? You knew now where to
find me. Sinfi, of course, told you that I was in Wales. And you did not even write to me!
What can it mean?'

'Why, Henry, don't you know what it means? Don't you know that the newspapers were full of
long paragraphs about the heir of the Aylwins having left his famous bungalow and gone to Japan?
Why, it was actually copied into the little penny weekly thing that Mrs. Titwing takes in,
and it was there that I read it.'

'This shows the folly of ignoring the papers,' I said. 'I did undoubtedly say in some letters
to friends that I proposed going to Japan; but my loss of you, my grief, my misery, paralysed
every faculty of mine. My strength of purpose was all gone. I delayed and delayed starting,
and never left Wales at all, as you see.'

'Two things,' continued Winnie, 'prevented my leaving Hurstcote--my promise to Mr. D'Arcy to
sit to him for his picture of Zenelophon, and the prosaic fact that I had not money in my pocket
to travel with; for it was part of the delicate method of Mr. D'Arcy to furnish me with everything
money could buy, but to give me no money. His extravagant expenditure upon me in the way of
dress, trinkets, and every kind of luxury that could be placed in my room by Mrs. Titwing appalled
me. Mrs. Titwing's own bearing, when I spoke to her about them, would have made one almost
suppose that they grew there like mushrooms; and if I mentioned them to Mr. D'Arcy he would
tell me that Mrs. Titwing was answerable for all that; he knew nothing about such matters.

'What I should in the end have done as to leaving Hurstcote or remaining there I don't know;
but after a while something occurred to remove my difficulties. One morning, when I was giving
Mr. D'Arcy a long sitting for his picture, a Gypsy friend of Sinfi's, belonging to a family
of Lees encamped two or three miles off, called to see her. It was a man, Sinfi told me, whom
I did not know, and he had gone away without my seeing him.

'In the afternoon, when Sinfi and I were in the punt fishing together, I could not help noticing
that she was much absorbed in thought.

'"This 'ere fishin' brings back old Wales, don't it?" she said.

'"Yes," I said, "and I should love to see the old places again."

'"You would?" she said; and her excitement was so great that she dropped her fishing-rod in
the river. "Jake Lee has been tellin' me that our people are there, all camped in the old place
by Bettws y Coed. I told him to write to my daddy--Jake can write--and tell him that I'm goin'
to see him."

'"But you already knew they were there, Sinfi; you told me. What makes you so suddenly want to go?"

'"That's nuther here nor there. I do want to go. Why can't you go with me?"

'"I should much like it," I said, "but it's impossible."

'"Why? You can come back to Mr. D'Arcy again."

'"But, Sinfi," I said, "how are we to travel without money? I have not a copper."

'"Ah, but I've got gold balansers about me, and they're better nor copper."

'"Dear Sinfi!" I said, "I'd rather borrow of you than any one in the world."

'"Borrow!" said she,--"all right! Now we shall have to speak to Mr. D'Arcy about it. It'll
be like drawin' one o' his teeth partin' with you."

'When I next saw Mr. D'Arcy I found that Sinfi had already spoken to him about our project.
He seemed very reluctant for me to leave him, although I promised him that I would return.

'"It is a strange fancy of Sinfi's, Miss Wynne," said he, "and a very disconcerting one to
me; but I feel that it must be yielded to. Whatever can be done to serve or even gratify Sinfi
Lovell, it is my duty and yours to do."

'Mr. D'Arcy always spoke of Sinfi in this way. She seems to have done something of a peculiarly
noble kind for him and for me too, but what it is I have tried in vain to discover.

'And a few days after this we started for Wales.

'Oh, Henry, I wonder whether any one who is not Welsh-born can understand my delight as we
passed along the railway at nightfall and I first felt upon my cheek the soft rich breath of
the Welsh meadows, smelling partly of the beloved land and partly of the beloved sea. "Yr Hen
Wlad, yr Hen Gartref!" I murmured when at Prestatyn I heard the first Welsh word and saw the
first white-washed Welsh cottage. From head to foot I became a Welsh girl again. The loveliness
of Hurstcote Manor seemed a dull, grey, far-away house in a dream. But if I had known that
I should also find you, my dear! If I had dreamed that I should find Henry!'

And then silence alone would satisfy her. And Snowdon was speaking to us both.

XIII

And what about Sinfi Lovell? In those supreme moments of bliss did Winifred and I think much
about Sinfi? Alas, that love and happiness should be so selfish!

When at last the sound of Sinfi's crwth and song came from some spot a good way up the rugged
path leading to the summit, it quite startled us.

'That's Sinfi's signal,' said Winnie; 'that is the way we used to call each other when we were
children. She used to sing one verse of a Snowdon song, and I used to answer it with another.
Upon my word, Henry, I had forgotten all about her. What a shame! We have not seen each other
since we parted yesterday at the camp.'

And she sprang up to go.

'No, don't leave me,' I said; 'wait till she comes to us. She's sure to come quite soon enough.
Depend upon it she is eager to see how her coup de théâtre has prospered.'

'I must really go to her,' said Winifred; 'ever since we left Hurstcote I have fallen in with
her wishes in everything.'

'But why?'

'Because I am sure from Mr. D'Arcy's words that she has rendered me some great service, though
what it is I can't guess in the least.'

'But what are really the plans of the day of this important Gypsy?'

'There again I can't guess in the least,' said Winifred. 'Probably the walk to the top and
then down to Llanberis, and then on to Carnarvon, is really to take place, as originally arranged--only
with the slight addition that some one is to join us! I shall soon be back, either alone or
with Sinfi, and then we shall know.'

She ran up the path. Against her wish I followed her for a time. She moved towards the same
dangerous ledge of rock where I had last seen her on that day before she vanished in the mist.

I cried out as I followed her, 'Winnie, for God's sake don't run that danger!'

'No danger at all,' she cried. 'I know every rock as well as you know every boulder of Raxton
Cliffs.'

I watched her poising herself on the ledge; it made me dizzy. Her confidence, however, was
so great that I began to feel she was safe; and after she had passed out of sight I returned
to the llyn where we had breakfasted.

Sinfi's music ceased, but Winifred did not return. I sat down on the rock and tried to think,
but soon found that the feat was impossible. The turbulent waves of my emotion seemed to have
washed my brain clear of all thoughts. The mystery in connection with Sinfi was now as great
as the mystery connected with the rescue of Winifred from the mattress in Primrose Court. So
numbed was my brain that I at last pinched myself to make sure that I was awake. In doing this
I seemed to feel in one of my coat pockets a hard substance. Putting my hand into the pocket,
I felt the sharp corner of a letter pricking between a finger and its nail. The acute pain
assured me that I was awake. I pulled out the letter. It was the one that the servant at the
bungalow had given me in the early morning when I called to get my bath. I read the address,
which was in a handwriting I did not know:--

'HENRY AYLWIN, ESQ., 'Carnarvon, North Wales.'

The Carnarvon postmark and the words written on the envelope, 'Try Capel Curig,' showed the
cause of the delay in the letter's reaching me. In the left-hand corner of the envelope were
written the words 'Very urgent. Please forward immediately.' I opened it, and found it to be
a letter of great length. I looked at the end and gave a start, exclaiming, 'D'Arcy!'

XVI

D'ARCY'S LETTER

This is how the letter ran:--

HURSTCOTE MANOR.

MY DEAR AYLWIN,

I have just learned by accident that you are somewhere in Wales. I had gathered from paragraphs
in the newspapers about you that you were in Japan, or in some other part of the East.

Miss Wynne and Sinfi Lovell are at this moment in Wales, and I write at once to furnish you
with some facts in connection with Miss Wynne which it is important for you to know before
you meet her. I can imagine your amazement at learning that she you have lost so long has been
staying here as my guest. I will tell you all without more preamble.

One day, some little time after I parted from you in the streets of London, I chanced to go
into Wilderspin's studio, when I found him in great distress. He told me that the beautiful
model who had sat for his picture 'Faith and Love' had suddenly died. The mother of the girl
had on the previous day been in and told him that her daughter had died in one of the fits
to which at intervals she had been subject.

Wilderspin, in his eccentric way, had always declared that the model was not the woman's daughter.
He did not think her, as I did, to have been kidnapped; he believed her to be not a creature
of flesh and blood at all, but a spiritual body sent from heaven by his mother in order that
he might use her as a model. As to the woman Gudgeon, who laid claim to be her mother, he thought
she was suffering from a delusion--a beneficent delusion--in supposing the model to be her
daughter. And now he thought that this beautiful phantom from the spirit-world had been recalled
because his picture was complete. When I entered the studio he was just starting for the second
time, as he told me, to the woman's house, in the belief that the body of the girl which he
had seen lying on a mattress was a delusion--a spiritual body, and must by this time have vanished.

I had reasons for wishing to prevent his going there and being again brought into contact with
the woman before I saw her myself. From my first seeing the woman and the model, I had found
it impossible to believe that there could be any blood relationship between them, for the girl's
frame from head to foot was as delicate as the woman's frame from head to foot was coarse and
vulgar.

Naturally, therefore, it occurred to me that this was an excellent opportunity to find out
the truth of the matter. I determined to go and bully the impudent hag into a confession; but
of course Wilderspin was the last man I should choose to accompany me on such a mission. Your
relative, Cyril Aylwin, was, as I believed, on the Continent, expecting Wilderspin to join
him there, or I might have taken him with me.

I have always had great influence over Wilderspin, and I easily persuaded him to remain in
the studio while I went myself to the woman's address, which he gave me. I knew that if the
model were really dead she would have to be buried by the parish at a pauper funeral, that
is to say, lowered into a deep pit with other paupers. It was painful to me to think of this,
and I determined to get her buried myself. So I took a hansom and drove to the squalid court
in the neighbourhood of Holborn, where the woman lived.

On reaching the house, I found the door open. Wilderspin had described to me the room occupied
by Mrs. Gudgeon, so I went at once upstairs. I found the model upon a mattress, her features
horribly contorted, lying in the same clothes apparently in which she had fallen when seized.

In an armchair in the middle of the room was Mrs. Gudgeon, in a drunken sleep so profound that
I could not have roused her had I tried. While I stood looking at the girl, something in the
appearance of her flesh--its freshness of hue--made me suspect that she was still alive, and
that she was only suffering from a seizure of a more acute kind than any the woman had yet
seen. As I stood looking at these two it occurred to me that should the model recover from
the seizure this would be an excellent and quite unexpected opportunity for me to get her away.
The woman, I thought, would after a while wake up, and find to her amazement the body gone
of her whom she thought dead. If she had really kidnapped the girl she would be afraid to set
any inquiry afoot. She might even perhaps imagine that the girl's relations had traced her,
found the dead body, and removed it for burial while she, the kidnapper, was asleep.

After a while the expression of terror on the model's face began to relax, and she soon awoke
into that strange condition which had caused Wilderspin to declare that she had been sent from
another world. She recognised me in the semi-conscious way in which she recognised all those
who were brought into contact with her, and looked into my face with that indescribably sweet
smile of hers. From the first she had in her dazed way seemed attached to me, and I had now
no difficulty whatever in persuading her to accompany me downstairs and out of the house.

Before going, however, the whim seized me to write on the wall in large letters, with a piece
of red drawing-chalk I had in my waistcoat pocket, 'Kidnapper, beware! Jack Ketch is on your
track.' I took the girl to my house, and put her under the care of my housekeeper (much to
the worthy lady's surprise), who gave her every attention. I then went to Wilderspin's studio.

'Well,' said he, 'there is no body lying there, I suppose?'

'None,' I said.

'Did I not tell you that the spirit-world had called her back? What I saw has vanished, as
I expected. How could you suppose that a material body could ever be so beautiful?'

As I particularly wished that the model should, for a time at least, be removed from all her
present surroundings, I thought it well to let Wilderspin retain his wild theory as to her
disappearance.

I had already arranged to go on the following day to Hurstcote Manor, where several unfinished
pictures were waiting for me, and I decided to take the model with me.

Before, however, I started for the country with her, I had the curiosity to call next morning
upon the woman in Primrose Court, in order to discover what had been the effect of my stratagem.
I found her sitting in a state of excitement, and evidently in great alarm, gazing at the mattress.
The words I had written on the wall had been carefully washed out.

'Well, Mrs. Gudgeon,' I said, 'what has become of your daughter?'

'Dead,' she whimpered, 'dead.'

'Yes, I know she's dead,' I said. 'But where is the body?'

'Where's the body? Why, buried, in course,' said the woman.

'Buried? Who buried her?' I said.

'What a question, surelie!' she said, and kept repeating the words in order, as I saw, to give
herself time to invent some story. Then a look of cunning overspread her face, and she whimpered,
'Who does bury folks in Primrose Court? The parish, to be sure.'

These words of the woman's showed that matters had taken exactly the course I should have liked
them to take. She would tell other inquirers as she had told me, that her daughter had been
buried by the parish. No one would take the trouble, I thought, to inquire into it, and the
matter would end at once.

So I said to her, 'Oh, if the parish buried her, that's all right; no one ever makes inquiries
about people who are buried by the parish.'

This seemed to relieve the woman's mind vastly, and she said, 'In course they don't. What's
the use of askin' questions about people as are buried by the parish?'

Not thinking that the time was quite ripe for cross-examining Mrs. Gudgeon as to her real relations
to the model, I left her, and that same afternoon I took the model down to Hurstcote Manor,
determining to keep the matter a secret from everybody, as I intended to discover, if possible,
her identity.

I need scarcely remind you that although you told me some little of the story of yourself and
a young lady to whom you were deeply attached, you were very reticent as to the cause of her
dementia; and your story ended with her disappearance in Wales. I, for my part, had not the
smallest doubt that she had fallen down a precipice and was dead. Everything--especially the
fact that you last saw her on the brink of a precipice, running into a volume of mist--pointed
to but one conclusion. To have imagined for a moment that she and Wilderspin's model, who had
been discovered in the streets of London, were the same, would have been, of course, impossible.
Besides, you had given me no description of her personal appearance, nor had you said a word
to me as to her style of beauty, which is undoubtedly unique.

When I got the model fairly settled at Hurstcote her presence became a delight to me such as
it could hardly have been to any other man. It is difficult for me to describe that delight,
but I will try.

Do you by chance remember our talk about animals and the charm they had for me, especially
young animals? And do you remember my saying that the most fascinating creature in the world
would be a beautiful young girl as unconscious as a child or a young animal; if such a combination
of charms were possible? Such a young girl as this it was whom I was now seeing every day and
all day. The charm she exercised over me was no doubt partly owing to my own peculiar temperament--to
my own hatred of self-consciousness and to an innate shyness which is apt to make me feel at
times that people are watching me, when they most likely are doing nothing of the kind.

And charming as she is now, restored to health and consciousness--charming above most young
ladies with her sweet intelligence and most lovable nature--the inexpressible witchery I have
tried to describe has vanished, otherwise I don't know how I should have borne what I now have
brought myself to bear, parting from her.

I seemed to have no time to think about prosecuting inquiries in regard to her identity. I
am afraid there was much selfishness in this, but I have never pretended to be an unselfish man.

The one drop of bitterness in my cup of pleasure was the recurrence of the terrible paroxysms
to which she was subject.

I was alarmed to find that these became more and more frequent and more and more severe. I
felt at last that her system could not stand the strain much longer, and that the end of her
life was not far distant.

It was in a very singular way that I came to know her name and also her relations with you.
In my original perplexity about finding a model for my Zenelophon, I had bethought me of Sinfi
Lovell, who, with a friend of hers named Rhona Boswell, sat to Wilderspin, to your cousin,
and others. I had made inquiries about Sinfi, but had been told that she was not now to be
had, as she had abandoned London altogether, and was settled in Wales.

One day, however, I was startled by seeing Sinfi walking across the meadows along the footpath
leading from the station.

She told me that she had quitted Wales for good, and had left you there, and that on reaching
London and calling at one of the studios where she used to sit, she had been made aware of
my inquiries after her. As she had now determined to sit a good deal to painters, she had gone
to my studio in London. Being told there that I was at Hurstcote Manor, where she had sat to
me on several occasions, she had taken the train and come down.

During our conversation the model passed through the garden gate and walked towards the Spinney,
and stood looking in a rapt way at the sunset clouds and listening to the birds.

When Sinfi caught sight of her she stood as if petrified, and exclaimed, 'Winnie Wynne! Then
she ain't dead; the dukkeripen was true; they'll be married arter all. Don't let her see me
suddenly, it might bring on fits.'

Miss Wynne, however, had observed neither Sinfi nor me, and we two passed into the garden without
any difficulty.

In the studio Sinfi sat down, and in a state of the deepest agitation she told me much of the
story, as far as she knew it, of yourself and Miss Wynne, but I could see that she was not
telling me all.

We were both perplexed as to what would be the best course of action to take in regard to Miss
Wynne--whether to let her see Sinfi or not, for evidently she was getting worse, the paroxysms
were getting more frequent and more severe. They would come without any apparent disturbing
cause whatever. Now that I had to connect her you had lost in Wales with the model, many things
returned to me which I had previously forgotten, things which you had told me in London. I
had quite lately learnt a good deal from Dr. Mivart, who formerly practised near the town in
which you lived, but who now lives in London. He had been attending me for insomnia. While
speculating as to what would be best to do, it occurred to me that I would write to Mivart,
asking him to run down to me at Hurstcote Manor and consult with me, because he had told me
that he had given attention to cases of hysteria. I did this, and persuaded Sinfi to remain
and to keep out of Miss Wynne's sight. Although Sinfi was still as splendid a woman as ever,
I noticed a change in her. Her animal spirits had fled, and she had to me the appearance of
a woman in trouble; but what her trouble was I could not guess, and I cannot now guess. Perhaps
she had been jilted by some Gypsy swain.

When Dr. Mivart came he was much startled at recognising in Miss Wynne his former patient of
Raxton, whom he had attended on her first seizure. He said that it would now be of no use for
me to write to you, as it was matter of common knowledge that you had gone to Japan. If it
had not been for this I should have written to you at once. He took a very grave view of Miss
Wynne's case, and said that her nervous system must shortly succumb to the terrible seizures.
Sinfi Lovell was in the room at the time. I asked Dr. Mivart if there was any possible means
of saving her life.

'None,' he said, 'or rather there is one which is unavailable.'

'And what is that?' I asked.

'They have a way at the Salpêtrière Hospital of curing cases of acute hysteria By transmitting
the seizure to a healthy patient by means of a powerful magnet. My friend Marini, of that hospital,
has had recently some extraordinary successes of this kind. Indeed, by a strange coincidence,
as I was travelling here this morning I chanced to buy a Daily Telegraph, in which this paragraph
struck my eye.'

Mivart then pointed out to me a letter from Paris in the Daily Telegraph, giving an account
of certain proceedings at the Salpêtrière Hospital, and in the same paper there was a long
leading article upon the subject. The report of the experiments was to me so amazing that at
first I could not bring my mind to believe in it. As you will, I am sure, feel some incredulity,
I have cut out the paragraph, and here it is pasted at the bottom of this page:--

'The chief French surgeons and medical professors have, for some time, been carefully studying
the effect of mesmerism on the female patients of the Salpêtrière Hospital, and M. Marini,
a clinical surgeon of that establishment, has just effected a series of experiments, the results
of which would seem to open up a new field for medical science. M. Marini tried to prove that
certain hysterical symptoms could be transferred by the aid of the magnet from one patient
to another. He took two subjects: one a dumb woman afflicted with hysteria, and the other a
female who was in a state of hypnotic trance. A screen was placed between the two, and the
hysterical woman was then put under the influence of a strong magnet. After a few moments she
was rendered dumb, while speech was suddenly restored to the other. Luckily for his healthier
patients, however, their borrowed pains and symptoms did not last long.'

And Mivart was able to give me some more extraordinary instances of the transmission of hysterical
seizures from one patient to another--instances where permanent cures were effected. [Footnote]
Naturally I asked Mivart what befell the new victims of the seizures.

[Footnote: The transmissions here alluded to were mostly effected by M. Babinski of the Salpêtrière.
They excited great attention in Paris.]

'That depends,' said Mivart, 'upon three circumstances--the acuteness of the seizure, the strength
of the recipient's nervous system, and the kind of imagination she has. In all Marini's experiments
the new patient has quickly recovered, and the original patient has remained entirely cured
and often entirely unconscious that she has ever suffered from the paroxysms at all.'

Mivart went on to say that the case of Miss Wynne was so severe a one that if the new patient's
imagination were very strong the risk to her would be exceptionally great.

At the end of this discussion Mivart directed my attention to Sinfi Lovell. She sat as though
listening to some voice. Her head was bent forward, her lips were parted, and her eyes were
closed. Then I heard her say in a loud whisper, 'Yis, mammy dear, little Sinfi's a-listenin'.
Yis, this is the way to make her dukkeripen come true, and then mine can't. Yis, this is the
very way. They shall meet again by Knockers' Llyn, where I seed the Golden Hand, and arter
that, never shall little Sinfi go agin you, dear. And never no more shall any one on 'em, Gorgio
or Gorgie, bring their gries and their beautiful livin'-waggins among tents o' ourn. Never
no more shall they jine our breed--never no more, never no more. And then my dukkeripen can't
come true.'

Then, springing up, she said, 'I'll stand the risk anyhow. You may pass the cuss on to me if
you can.'

'The seizure has nothing to do with any curse,' said Mivart, 'but if you think it has, you
are the last person to whom it should be transmitted.'

'Oh, never fear,' said Sinfi; 'Gorgio cuss can't touch Romany. But if you find you can pass
the cuss on to me, I'll stand the cuss all the same.'

I always admired this noble girl very much, and I pointed out to her the danger of the experiment
to one of her temperament, but assured her the superstition about the Gorgio curse was entirely
an idle one.

'Danger or no danger,' she said, 'I'll chance it; I'll chance it.'

'It might be the death of you,' I said, 'if you believe that the seizure is a curse.'

'Death!' she murmured, with a smile. 'It ain't death as is likely to scare a Romany chi, 'specially
if she happens to want to die;' and then she said aloud, 'I tell you I mean to chance it, but
I think my dear old daddy ought to know about it. So if you'll jist write to him at Gypsy Dell,
by Rington, and ask him to come and see me here, I'm right well sure he'll come and see me
at wonst. He can't read the letter hisself, of course, but the Scollard can, and so can Rhona
Boswell. One on 'em will read it to him, and I know he'll come at wonst. I shouldn't like to
run such a risk without my dear blessed old daddy knowin' on it.'

It ended in Mivart's writing to Sinfi's father, and Panuel Lovell turned up the next evening
in a great state of alarm as to what he was wanted for. Panuel's opposition to the scheme was
so strong that I refused to urge the point.

It was a very touching scene between him and Sinfi.

'You know what your mammy told you about you and the Gorgios,' said he, with tears trickling
down his cheeks. 'You know the dukkeripen said as you wur to beware o' Gorgios, because a Gorgio
would come to the Kaulo Camloes as would break your heart.'

She looked at her father for a second, and then she broke into a passion of tears, and threw
herself upon the old man's neck, and I thought I heard her murmur, 'It's broke a'ready, daddy.'
But I really am not quite sure that she did not say the opposite of this.

I had no idea before how strong the family ties are between the Gypsies. It seems to me that
they are stronger than with us, and I was really astonished that Sinfi could, in order to be
of service to two people of another race, resist the old Gypsy's appeal. She did, however,
and it was decided that at the next seizure the experiment should be made, and Dr. Mivart telegraphed
to London for his assistant to bring one of Marini's magnets.

We had not long to wait, for the very next day, just as Mivart was preparing to leave for London,
Miss Wynne was seized by another paroxysm. It was more severe than any previous one--so severe,
indeed, that it seemed to me that it must be the last.

It was with great reluctance that Mivart consented to use Sinfi as the recipient of the seizure,
because of her belief that it was the result of a curse. However, he at last consented, and
ordered two couches to be placed side by side with a large magnet between them. Then Miss Wynne
was laid on one couch, and Sinfi Lovell on the other; a screen was placed between the couches,
and then the wonderful effect of the magnetism began to show itself.

The transmission was entirely successful, and Miss Wynne awoke as from a trance, and I saw
as it were the beautiful eyes change as the soul returned to them. She was no longer the fascinating
child who had become part of my life. She was another person, a stranger whose acquaintance
I had now to make, and whose friendship I had yet to win. Indeed the change in the expression
was so great that it was really difficult to believe that the features were the same. This
was owing to the wonderful change in the eyes.

To Sinfi Lovell the seizure was transmitted in a way that was positively uncanny--she passed
into a paroxysm so severe that Mivart was seriously alarmed for her. Her face assumed the same
expression of terror which I had seen on Miss Wynne's face, and she uttered the cry, 'Father!'
and then fell back into a state of rigidity.

'The transmission was just in time,' said Mivart; 'the other patient would never have survived
this.'

Strong as Sinfi Lovell was, the effect of the transmission upon her nervous system was to me
appalling. Indeed it was much greater, Mivart said, than he was prepared for. Poor Panuel Lovell
kept gazing at us, and then said, 'It's cruel to let one woman kill herself for another; but
when her as kills herself is a Romany, and t'other a Gorgie, it's what I calls a blazin' shame.
She would do it, my poor chavi would do it. "No harm can't come on it," says she, "because
a Gorgio cuss can't touch a Romany." An' now see what's come on it.'

Mivart would not hear of Sinfi's returning at present to the Gypsies, as she required special
treatment. Hence there was no course left open to us but that of keeping her here attended
by a nurse whom Mivart sent. While the recurrent paroxysms were severe, Sinfi was to be carefully
kept apart from Miss Wynne until it should become quite clear how much and how little Miss
Wynne remembered of her past life. Mivart, however, leaned to the opinion that nothing could
recall to her mind the catastrophe that caused the seizure. By an unforeseen accident they
met, and I was at first fearful of the consequences, but soon found that Mivart's theory was
right. No ill effects whatever followed the meeting. Sinfi's transmitted paroxysms have gradually
become less acute and less frequent, and Miss Wynne has been constantly with her and ministering
to her; the affection between them seems to have been of long standing, and very great.

I found that Miss Wynne remembered all her past life down to her first seizure on Raxton sands,
while everything that had since passed was a blank. Since her recovery her presence here has
seemed to shed a richer sunlight over the old place, but of course she is no longer the fairy
child who before her cure fascinated me more than any other living creature could have done.

Apart from her sweet companionship, she has been of great service to me in my art. When I learnt
who she was, I should not have dreamed of asking her to sit to me as a model without having
first taken your views, and you were, as I understood, abroad; but she herself generously volunteered
to sit to me for a picture I had in my mind, 'The Spirit of Snowdon.' It was a failure, however,
and I abandoned it. Afterwards, knowing that I was at my wits' end for a model in the painting
I have been for a long time at work upon, 'Zenelophon,' she again offered to sit to me. The
result has been that the picture, now near completion, is by far the best thing I have ever done.

I had noticed for some time that Sinfi's mind seemed to be running upon some project. Neither
Miss Wynne nor I could guess what it was. But a few days ago she proposed that Miss Wynne and
she should take a trip to North Wales in order to revisit the places endeared to them both
by reminiscences of their childhood. Nothing seemed more natural than this. And Sinfi's noble
self-sacrifice for Miss Wynne had entitled her to every consideration, and indeed every indulgence.

And yesterday they started for Wales. It was not till after they were gone that I learnt from
another newspaper paragraph that you did not go to Japan, and are in Wales. And now I begin
to suspect that Sinfi's determination to go to Wales with Miss Wynne arose from her having
suddenly learnt that you are still there.

And now, my dear Alywin, having acted as a somewhat prosaic reporter of these wonderful events,
I should like to conclude my letter with a word or two about what took place when I parted
from you in the streets of London. I saw then that your sufferings had been very great, and
since that time they must have been tenfold greater. And now I rejoice to think that, of all
the men in this world who have ever loved, you, through this very suffering, have been the
most fortunate. As Job's faith was tried by Heaven, so has your love been tried by the power
which you call 'circumstance' and which Wilderspin calls 'the spiritual world.' All that death
has to teach the mind and the heart of man you have learnt to the very full, and yet she you
love is restored to you, and will soon be in your arms. I, alas! have long known that the tragedy
of tragedies is the death of a beloved mistress, or a beloved wife. I have long known that
it is as the King of Terrors that Death must needs come to any man who knows what the word
'love' really means. I have never been a reader of philosophy, but I understand that the philosophers
of all countries have been preaching for ages upon ages about resignation to Death--about the
final beneficence of Death--that 'reasonable moderator and equipoise of justice,' as Sir Thomas
Browne calls him. Equipoise of justice indeed! He who can read with tolerance such words as
these most have known nothing of the true passion of love for a woman as you and I understand
it. The Elizabethans are full of this nonsense; but where does Shakespeare, with all his immense
philosophical power, ever show this temper of acquiescence? All his impeachments of Death have
the deep ring of personal feeling--dramatist though he was. But, what I am going to ask you
is, How shall the modern materialist, who you think is to dominate the Twentieth Century and
all the centuries to follow--how shall he confront Death when a beloved mistress is struck
down? When Moschus lamented that the mallow, the anise, and the parsley had a fresh birth every
year, whilst we men sleep in the hollow earth a long, unbounded, never-waking sleep, he told
us what your modern materialist tells us, and he re-echoed the lamentation which, long before
Greece had a literature at all, had been heard beneath Chaldean stars and along the mud-banks
of the Nile. Your bitter experience made you ask materialism, What comfort is there in being
told that death is the very nursery of new life, and that our heirs are our very selves, if
when you take leave of her who was and is your world it is 'Vale, vale, in æternum vale'? The
dogged resolution with which at first you fought and strove for materialism struck me greatly.
It made you almost rude to me at our last meeting.

When I parted from you I should have been blind indeed had I failed to notice how scornfully
you repudiated my suggestion that you should replace the amulet in the tomb from which it had
been stolen. I did not then know that the tomb was your father's. Had I known it my suggestion
would have been much more emphatic. I saw that you had the greatest difficulty in refraining
from laughing in my face when I said to you that you would eventually replace it. Yes, you
had great difficulty in refraining from laughing. I did not take offence. I felt sure that
the cross was in some way connected with the young lady you had lost in Wales, but I could
not guess how. Had you told me that the cross had been taken from your father's tomb I should
no doubt have connected it with the cry of 'Father' which had, I knew, several times been uttered
in Wilderspin's studio by the model in her paroxysms, and I should have earlier done what I
was destined to do--I should earlier have brought you together. From sympathy that sprang from
a deep experience I knew you better than you knew yourself. When I learnt from Sinfi Lovell
that you had fulfilled my prophecy I did not laugh. Tears rather than laughter would have been
more in my mood, for I realised the martyrdom you must have suffered before you were impelled
to do it. I knew how you must have been driven by sorrow--driven against all the mental methods
and traditions of your life--into the arms of supernaturalism. No sooner had the sweet vision
fled than my reason, like Hamlet's, rose and rejected it. It was not until I became acquainted
with the rationale of sympathetic manifestations--it was not till I learnt, by means of that
extraordinary book of your father's, which seems to have done its part in turning friend Wilderspin's
head, what is the supposed method by which the spiritual world acts upon the material world--acts
by the aid of those same natural bonds which keep the stars in their paths--that my blood and
my reason became reconciled, and a new light came to me. And I knew that this would be your
case. Yes, my dear Aylwin, I knew that when the issues of Life are greatly beyond the common,
and when our hearts are torn as yours has been torn, and when our souls are on fire with a
flame such as that which I saw was consuming you, the awful possibilities of this universe--of
which we, civilised men or savage, know nothing--will come before us, and tease our hearts
with strange wild hopes, 'though all the "proofs" of all the logicians should hold them up
to scorn.'

I am, my dear Aylwin,

Your sincere Friend,

T. D'ARCY.

XVII

THE TWO DUKKERIPENS

Was the mystery at an end? Was there one point in this story of stories which this letter of
D'Arcy's had not cleared up? Yes, indeed there was one. What motive--or rather, what mixture
of motives--had impelled Sinfi to play her part in restoring Winifred to me? Her affection
for me was, I knew, as strong as my own affection for her. But this I attributed largely to
the mysterious movements of the blood of Fenella Stanley which we both shared. In many matters
there was a kinship of taste between us, such as did not exist between me and Winnie, who was
far from being scornful of conventions, and to whom the little Draconian laws of British 'Society'
were not objects of mere amusement, as they were to me and Sinfi.

All this I attributed to that 'prepotency of transmission in descent' which I knew to be one
of the Romany characteristics. All this I attributed, I say, to the far-reaching influence
of Fenella Stanley.

But would this, coupled with her affection for Winifred, have been strong enough to conquer
Sinfi's terror of a curse and its supposed power? And then that colloquy recorded by D'Arcy
with what she believed to be her mother's spirit--those words about 'the two dukkeripens'--what
did they mean? At one moment I seemed to guess their meaning in a dim way, and at the next
they seemed more inexplicable than ever. But be their import what it might, one thing was quite
certain--Sinfi had saved Winifred, and there swept through my very being a passion of gratitude
to the girl who had acted so nobly which for the moment seemed to drown all other emotions.
I had not much time, however, for bringing my thoughts to bear upon this new source of wonderment;
for I suddenly saw Winifred and Sinfi descending the steep path towards me.

But what a change there was in Sinfi! The traces of illness had fled entirely from her face,
and were replaced by the illumination of the triumphant soul within--a light such as I could
imagine shining on the features of Boadicea fresh from a successful bout with the foe of her
race. Even the loveliness of Winnie seemed for the moment to pale before the superb beauty
of the Gypsy girl, whom the sun was caressing as though it loved her, shedding a radiance over
her picturesque costume, and making the gold coins round her neck shine like dewy whin-flowers
struck by the sunrise.

I understood well that expression of triumph. I knew that, with her, imagination was life itself.
I knew that this imagination of hers had just escaped from the sting of the dominant thought
which was threatening to turn a supposed curse into a curse indeed.

I went to meet them.

'I promised to bring her livin' mullo,' said Sinfi, 'and I have kept my word, and now we are
all going up to the top together.'

Winnie at once proceeded to pack up the breakfast things in Sinfi's basket. While she was doing
this Sinfi and I went to the side of the llyn.

'Sinfi, I know all--all you have done for Winnie, all you have done for me.'

'You know about me takin' the cuss?' she said in astonishment. 'Gorgio cuss can't touch Romany,
they say, but it did touch me. I wur very bad, brother. Howsomedever, it's all gone now. But
how did you come to know about it? Winnie don't know herself, so she couldn't ha' told you;
and I promised Mr. D'Arcy that if ever I wur to see you anywheres I wouldn't talk about it--leaseways
not till he could tell you hisself or write to you full.'

'Winnie does not know about it,' I said, 'but I do. I know that in order to save her life--in
order to save us both--you allowed her illness to pass on to you, at your own peril. But you
mustn't talk of its being a curse, Sinfi. It was just an illness like any other illness, and
the doctor passed it on to you in the same way that doctors sometimes do pass on such illnesses.
Doctors can't cure curses, you know. You will soon be quite well again, and then you will forget
all about what you call the curse.'

'I'm well enough now, brother; but see, Winnie has packed the things, and she's waiting to go up.'

We then began the ascent.

Ah, that ascent! I wish I had time and space to describe it. Up the same path we went which
Sinfi and I had followed on that memorable morning when my heart was as sad as it was buoyant now.

Reaching the top, we sat down in the hut and made our simple luncheon. Winnie was a great favourite
with the people there, and she could not get away from them for a long time. We went down to
Bwlch Glas, and there we stood gazing at the path that leads to Llanberis.

I had not observed, but Winnie evidently had, that Sinfi wanted to speak to me alone; for she
wandered away pretending to be looking for a certain landmark which she remembered; and Sinfi
and I were left together.

'Brother,' said Sinfi, 'I ain't a-goin' to Llanberis an' Carnarvon with you two. You take that
path; I take this.'

She pointed to the two downward paths.

'Surely you are not going to leave us at a moment like this?' I said.

'That's jist what I am a-goin' to do,' she said. 'This is the very time an' this is the very
place where I am a-goin' to leave you an' all Gorgios.'

'Part on Snowdon, Sinfi!' I exclaimed.

'That's what we're a-goin' to do, brother. What I sez to myself when I made up my mind to take
the cuss on me wur this: "I'll make her dukkeripen come true; I'll take her to him in Wales,
and then we'll part. We'll part on Snowdon, an' I'll go one way an' they'll go another, jist
like them two streams as start from Gorphwysfa an' go runnin' down till one on 'em takes the
sea at Carnarvon, and t'other at Tremadoc." Yis, brother, it's on Snowdon where you an' Winnie
Wynne sees the last o' Sinfi Lovell.'

Distressed as I was at her words, that inflexible look on her face I understood only too well.
'But there is Mr. D'Arcy to consider,' I said. 'Winnie tells me that it is the particular wish
of Mr. D'Arcy that you and she should return to him at Hurstcote Manor. He has been wonderfully
kind, and his wishes should be complied with.'

'No, brother,' said Sinfi, 'I shall never go to Hurstcote Manor no more.'

'Surely you will, Sinfi. Winnie tells me of the deep regard that Mr. D'Arcy has for you.'

'Never no more. Winifred's dukkeripen on Snowdon has come true, and it wur me what made it
come true. Yis, it wur Sinfi Lovell and nobody else what made that dukkeripen come true.'

And again her face was illuminated by the triumphant expression which it wore when she returned
to Knockers' Llyn with Winnie.

'It was indeed your noble self-sacrifice for Winnie and me that made the dukkeripen of the
Golden Hand come true.'

'It worn't all for you and Winnie, Hal. I ain't a-goin' to let you think better on me than
I desarve. It wur partly for you, and it wur partly for my dear mammy, and it wur partly for
myself. Listen to me, Hal Aylwin. When I made Winnie's dukkeripen come true I made my own dukkeripen
come to naught at the same time. The only way to make a dukkeripen come to naught is to make
another dukkeripen what conterdicks it come true. That's the only way to master a dukkeripen.
It ain't often that Romanies or Gorgios or anything that lives can master his own dukkeripen.
I've been thinkin' a good deal about sich things since I took that cuss on me. Night arter
night have I laid awake thinkin' about these 'ere things, and, brother, I believe I have done
what no livin' creatur ever done before--I've mastered my own dukkeripen. My mammy used to
say that the dukkeripen of every livin' thing comes true at last. "Is there anythink in the
whole world," she would say, "more crafty nor one o' those old broad-finned trouts in Knockers'
Llyn? But that trout's got his dukkeripen, an' it comes true at last. All day long he's p'raps
bin a-flashin' his fins an' a-twiddlin' his tail round an' round the may-fly or the brandlin'
worrum, though he knows all about the hook; but all at wonst comes the time o' the bitin',
and that's the time o' the dukkeripen, when every fish in the brook, whether he's hungry or
not, begins to bite, an' then up comes old red-spots, an' grabs at the bait because he must
grab, an' swallows it because he must swallow it; an' there's a hend of old red-spots jist
as sure as if he didn't know there wur a hook in the bait." That's what my mammy used to say.
But there wur one as could, and did, master her own dukkeripen--Shuri Lovell's little Sinfi.'

'You have mastered your dukkeripen, Sinfi?' 'Yes, I've mastered mine,' she said, with the same
look of triumph on her face--'I swore I'd master my dukkeripen, brother, an' I done it. I said
to myself the dukkeripen is strong, but a Romany chi may be stronger still if she keeps a-sayin'
to herself "I WILL master it; I WILL, I WILL."'

'Then that explains something I have often noticed, Sinfi. I have often seen your lips move
and nothing has come from them but a whisper, "I will, I will, I will."'

'Ah, you've noticed that, have you? Well then, now you know what it meant.'

'But, Sinfi, you have not told me what your dukkeripen is. You have often alluded to it, but
you have never allowed me even to guess what it is.'

Sinfi's face beamed with pride of triumph.

'You never guessed it? No, you never could guess it. An' months an' months have we lived together
an' you heard me whisper "I will, I will," an' you never guessed what them words meant. Lucky
for you, my fine Gorgio, that you didn't guess it,' she said, in an altered tone.

'Why?'

''Cos if you had a-guessed it you'd ha' cotch'd a left-hand body-blow that 'ud most like ha'
killed you. That's what you'd ha' cotch'd. But now as we're a-goin' to part for ever I'll tell
you.'

'Part for ever, Sinfi?'

'Yis, an' that's why I'm goin' to tell you what my dukkeripen wur. Many's the time as you've
asked me how it was that, for all that you and I was pals, I hate the Gorgios in a general
way as much as Rhona Boswell likes 'em. I used to like the Gorgios wonst as well as ever Rhona
did--else how should I ever ha' been so fond o' Winnie Wynne? Tell me that,' she said, in an
argumentative way as though I had challenged her speech. 'If I hadn't ha' liked the Gorgios
wonst, how should I ha' been so fond o' Winnie Wynne? An' why don't I like Gorgios now? Many's
the time you've ax'd me that question, an' now's the time for me to tell you. I know'd the
time 'ud come, an' this is the time to tell you, when you and me and Winnie are a-goin' to
part for ever at the top o' the biggest mountain in the world, this 'ere blessed Snowdon, as
allus did seem somehow to belong to her an' me. When I wur fond o' the Gorgios,--fonder nor
ever Rhona Boswell wur at that time ('cos she hadn't never met then with the Gorgio she's a-goin'
to die for),--it wur when I war a little chavi, an' didn't know nothink about dukkeripens at
all; but arterwards my mammy told my dukkeripen out o' the clouds, an' it wur jist this: I
wur to beware o' Gorgios, 'cos a Gorgio would come among the Kaulo Camloes an' break my heart.
An' I says to her, "Mammy dear, afore my heart shall break for any Gorgio I'll cut it out with
this 'ere knife," an' I draw'd her knife out o' her frock an' put it in my own, and here it
is.' And Sinfi pulled out her knife and showed it to me. 'An' now, brother, I'm goin' to tell
you somethink else, an' what I'm goin' to tell you'll show we're goin' to part for ever an'
ever. As sure as ever the Golden Hand opened over Winnie Wynne's head an' yourn on Snowdon,
so sure did I feel that you two 'ud be married, even when it seemed to you that she must he
dead. An' as sure as ever my mammy said I must beware o' Gorgios, so sure was I that you wur
the very Gorgio as wur to break the Romany chi's heart--if that Romany chi's heart hadn't been
Sinfi Lovell's. You hadn't been my pal long afore I know'd that. Arter I had been with you
a-lookin' for Winnie or fishin' in the brooks, many's the time, when I lay in the tent with
the star-light a-shinin' through the chinks in the tent's mouth, that I've said to myself,
"The very Gorgio as my mother seed a-comin' to the Lovells when she penned my dukkerin, he's
asleep in his livin'-waggin not five yards off." That's what made me seem so strange to you
at times, thinkin' o' my mammy's words, an' sayin' "I will, I will." An' now, brother, fare
you well.'

'But you must bid Winnie good-bye,' I said, as I saw her returning.

'Better not,' said she. 'You tell her I've changed my mind about goin' to Carnarvon. She'll
think we shall meet again, but we sha'n't. Tell her that they expect you and her at the inn
at Llanberis. Rhona will be there to-night with Winnie's clo'es and things.'

'Sinfi,' I said, 'I cannot part from you thus. I should be miserable all my days. No man ever
had such a noble, self-sacrificing friend as you. I cannot give you up. In a few days I shall
go to the tents and see you and Rhona, and my old friends, Panuel and Jericho; I shall indeed,
Sinfi. I mean to do it.'

'No, no,' cried Sinfi; 'everythink says "No" to that; the clouds an' the stars says "No," an'
the win' says "No," and the shine and the shadows says "No," and the Romany Sap says "No."
An' I shall send your livin'-waggin away, reia; yis, I shall send it arter you, Hal, and your
two beautiful gries; an' I shall tell my daddy--as never conterdicks his chavi in nothink,
'cos she's took the seein' eye from Shuri Lovell--I shall tell my dear daddy as no Gorgio and
no Gorgie, no lad an' no wench as ever wur bred o' Gorgio blood an' bones, mustn't never live
with our breed no more. That's what I shall tell my dear daddy; an' why? an' why? 'cos that's
what my mammy comes an' tells me every night, wakin' an' sleepin'--that's what she comes an'
tells me, reia, in the waggin an' in the tent, an' aneath the sun an' aneath the stars--an'
that's what the fiery eyes of the Romany Sap says out o' the ferns an' the grass, an' in the
Londra streets, whenever I thinks o' you. "The kair is kushto for the kairengro, but for the
Romany the open air." [Footnote] That's what my mammy used to say.'

[Footnote: The house is good for the house-dweller, the open air for the Gypsy.]

She then left me and descended the path to Capel Curig, and was soon out of sight.

XVIII

THE WALK TO LLANBERIS

When, on coming to rejoin us, Winnie learnt that Sinfi had left for Capel Curig, she seemed
at first somewhat disconcerted, I thought. Her training, begun under her aunt, and finished
under Miss Dalrymple, had been such that she was by no means oblivious of Welsh proprieties;
and, though I myself was entirely unable to see in what way it was more eccentric to be mountaineering
with a lover than with a Gypsy companion, she proposed that we should follow Sinfi.

'I have seen your famous living-waggon,' she said. 'It goes wherever the Lovells go. Let us
follow her. You can stay at Bettws or Capel Curig, and I can stay with Sinfi.'

I told her how strong was Sinfi's wish that we should not do so. Winnie soon yielded her point,
and we began leisurely our descent westward, along that same path which Sinfi and I had taken
on that other evening, which now seemed so far away, when we walked down to Llanberis with
the setting sun in our faces. If my misery could then only find expression in sighs and occasional
ejaculations of pain, absolutely dumb was the bliss that came to me now, growing in power with
every moment, as the scepticism of my mind about the reality of the new heaven before me gave
way to the triumphant acceptance of it by my senses and my soul.

The beauty of the scene--the touch of the summer breeze, soft as velvet even when it grew boisterous,
the perfume of the Snowdonian flowerage that came up to meet us, seemed to pour in upon me
through the music of Winnie's voice which seemed to be fusing them all. That beloved voice
was making all my senses one.

'You leave all the talk to me,' she said. But as she looked in my face her instinct told her
why I could not talk. She knew that such happiness and such bliss as mine carry the soul into
a region where spoken language is not.

Looking round me towards the left, where the mighty hollow of Cwm Dyli was partly in sunshine
and partly in shade, I startled Winnie by suddenly calling out her name. My thoughts had left
the happy dream of Winifred's presence and were with Sinfi Lovell. As I looked at the tall
precipices rising from the chasm right up to the summit of Snowdon, I recalled how Sinfi, notwithstanding
her familiarity with the scene, appeared to stand appalled as she gazed at the jagged ridges
of Crib-y-Ddysgyl, Crib Goch, Lliwedd, and the heights of Moel Siabod beyond. I recalled how
the expression of alarm upon Sinfi's features had made me almost see in the distance a starving
girl wandering among the rocks, and this it was that made me now exclaim 'Winnie!' With this
my lost power of speech returned.

We went to the ruined huts where Sinfi had on that memorable day lingered by the spring, and
Winnie began to scoop out the water with her hand and drink it. She saw how I wanted to drink
the water out of the little palm, and she scooped some out for me, saying, 'It's the purest,
and sweetest, and best water on Snowdon.'

'Yes,' I said, 'the purest, and sweetest, and best water in the world when drunk from such a cup.'

She drew her hand away and let the water drop through her fingers, and turned round to look
at the scene we had left, where the summit of Snowdon was towering beyond a reach of rock,
bathed in the rapidly deepening light.

'No idle compliments between you and me, sir,' she said, with a smile. 'Remember that I have
still time and strength to go back to the top and follow Sinfi down to the camp.'

And then we both laughed together, as we laughed that afternoon in Wilderness Road when she
enunciated her theories upon the voices of men and the voices of birds. She then stood gazing
abstractedly into a pool of water, upon which the evening lights were now falling. As I saw
her reflected in the surface of the stream, which was as smooth as a mirror--saw her reflected
there sometimes on an almost colourless surface, sometimes amid a procession in which every
colour of the rainbow took part, I sighed. 'Why do you sigh?' said she.

I could not tell her why, for I was recalling Wilderspin's words about her matchless beauty
and its inspiring effect upon the painter who painted it. It would indeed, as Wilderspin had
said, endow mediocrity with genius.

'Why do you sigh?' she repeated.

'Oh, if I could paint that, Winnie, if I could paint that picture in the water.'

'And why should you not?' she said, in a dreamy way. And then a sudden thought seemed to strike
her, and she said with much energy, 'Become a painter, Henry! Become a painter! No man ever
yet satisfied a true woman who did not work--work hard at something--anything--if not in the
active affairs of life, in the world of art. My love you must always have now--you must always
have it under any circumstances. I could not help under any circumstances giving you love.
But I fear I could not give a rich, idle man--even if he were Henry himself--enough love to
satisfy a yearning like yours.'

She bent her face again over the water, and looked at the picture.

'You have often told me that my face is beautiful, Henry, and you know you never could make
me believe it. But suppose you should be right after all, and suppose that you were a painter,
and used it for a picture of the Spirit of Snowdon, I should then thank God for having given
me a beautiful face, for it would enable you to win your goal. And afterwards, when its beauty
had passed away, as it soon would, I should have no further need for beauty, for my painter-husband
would, partly through me, have won.'

As we walked along, she pointed to the tubular bridge over the Menai Straits and to the coast
of Anglesey. The panorama had that fairy-like expression which belongs so peculiarly to Welsh
scenery. Other mountainous countries in Europe are beautiful, and since that divine walk I
have become intimately acquainted with them, but for associations romantic and poetic, there
is surely no land in the world equal to North Wales.

'Do you remember, Winnie,' I murmured, 'when you so delighted me by exclaiming, "What a beautiful
world it is!"?'

'Ah, yes,' said Winnie, 'and how I should love to paint its beauty. The only people I really
envy are painters.'

We were now at the famous spot where the triple echo is best heard, and we began to shout like
two children in the direction of Llyn Ddu'r Arddu. And then our talk naturally fell on Knockers'
Llyn and the echoes to be heard there. She then took me to another famous sight on this side
of Snowdon, the enormous stone, said to be five thousand tons in weight, called the Knockers'
Anvil. While we lingered here Winnie gave me as many anecdotes and legends of this stone as
would fill a little volume. But suddenly she stopped.

'Look!' she said, pointing to the sunset. 'I have seen that sight only once before. I was with
Sinfi. She called it "the Dukkeripen of the Trushul."'

The sun was now on the point of sinking, and his radiance, falling on the cloud-pageantry of
the zenith, fired the flakes and vapoury films floating and trailing above, turning them at
first into a ruby-coloured mass, and then into an ocean of rosy fire. A horizontal bar of cloud
which, until the radiance of the sunset fell upon it, had been dull and dark and grey, as though
a long slip from the slate quarries had been laid across the west, became for a moment a deep
lavender colour, and then purple, and then red-gold. But what Winnie was pointing at was a
dazzling shaft of quivering fire where the sun had now sunk behind the horizon. Shooting up
from the cliffs where the sun had disappeared, this shaft intersected the bar of clouds and
seemed to make an irregular cross of deep rose.

When Winnie turned her eyes again to mine I was astonished to see tears in them. I asked her
what they meant. She said, 'While I was looking at that cross of rose and gold in the clouds
it seemed to me that there came on the evening breeze the sound of a sob, and that it was Sinfi's,
my sister Sinfi's; but of course by this time Snowdon stands between us and her.'

POSTSCRIPT

In every case where I have brought into this story facts connected with medical matters, I
have been most cautious to avail myself of the authority of medical men. I will give here the
words of Mr. James Douglas upon this matter. After stating the fact that the story was in part
dictated to my dear friend Dr. Gordon Hake during a stay with him at Roehampton, he says:--

Dr. Hake is mainly known as the 'parable poet,' but as a fact he was a physician of extraordinary
talent who had practised first at Bury St. Edmunds and afterwards at Spring Gardens, London,
until he partly retired to be private physician to the late Lady Ripon. After her death he
left practice altogether in order to devote himself to literature, for which he had very great
equipments. As Aylwin touched upon certain subtle nervous phases, it must have been a great
advantage to the author to dictate these portions of the story to so skilled and experienced
a friend. The rare kind of cerebral exaltation into which Henry Aylwin passed after his appalling
experience in the cove, in which the entire nervous system was disturbed, was not what is known
as brain fever. The record of it in Aylwin is, I understand, a literal account of a rare and
wonderful case brought under the professional notice of Dr. Hake.

But I am now going to touch upon a much more important medical subject. Since the appearance
of Aylwin, I have received many letters enquiring whether the transmission of hysteria from
one patient to another by means of a magnet is an imaginary experiment, or whether it is based
on fact. It has been impossible for me to answer all these letters. But some of them, coming
from loving relatives of those who have suffered from hysteria, have been couched in such earnest
and pathetic words that they could not be left unanswered, and this has caused me great inconvenience.
I have therefore determined to give the reader some tangible data upon this subject. The extract
from the Daily Telegraph which appears on page 465 is a real extract, and records a real case
of transmission of hysteria. Upon the same subject I take the following admirable remarks from
an article in the Quarterly Review for July 1890, called 'Mesmerism and Hypnotism.'

The Influence of Magnets.--We have briefly referred to the action of magnets on the muscles
in speaking of the physiological phenomena, but they possess other properties which hardly
come under that head. They have the power of attracting hypnotised subjects. Thus, if a good-sized
magnet is placed at some little distance from the subject, and behind a screen so that he cannot
see it, after a time he will get up and go towards it. If now another magnet be placed at an
equal distance behind him, he will stop and remain as it were balanced between the two. By
withdrawing one or other he can be drawn backwards or forwards. Further, he can be charged
with magnetism by placing near him a large magnet with five ends. If it be suddenly removed
and hidden in another room, he is impelled to follow it with such force that he will fling
aside all obstacles in his way, and tracking it step by step will walk straight up to it. 'Once
he sights it, he either remains in dumb contemplation of it in front of its two poles, or else
lays his hands on both of the poles with a kind of profound satisfaction.' These experiments
with magnets are very exhausting.

*       *       *       *       *

Finally, if the senses can be so heightened as in the cases already cited from Braid and the
clinique of La Salpêtrière, it requires no great stretch of imagination to suppose them carried
still further until they become comparable to those inexplicable faculties which we call instinct
in animals, that for instance by which animals--cats, dogs, and sheep--can find their way home,
sometimes over hundreds of miles of unknown country.

Concerning the faculty of presensation, it is worth while to say a little more. The early mesmerists
made a great point of the power of some patients to diagnose the condition of another. Dr.
Puysegur's patient Joly, mentioned above, possessed the faculty to an unusual degree. He was
an educated man, of good position, and could express himself intelligibly:--

C'est une sensation veritable que j'éprouve dans un endroit correspondant à la partie qui souffre
chez celui que je touche: ma main va naturellement se porter à l'endroit de son mal, et je
ne peux pas plus m'y tromper que je ne pourrois le faire en portant ma main où je souffrirois
moi-meme.

Now, the following experiment has been carried out by Charcot at La Salpêtrière. A young girl
suffering from hysterical hemiplegia (paralysis of one side) came up one day from the country.
She was placed in a chair behind a screen and a hypnotic patient sent for from the wards. The
latter was placed on the other side of the screen and hypnotised. Neither of the patients was
aware of the other's presence. At the end of a minute the hypnotised patient was found to have
acquired the other's hemiplegia. The experiment was repeated every day, and in four days the
new comer was relieved of her trouble, which had lasted over a year. The same experiment was
tried in many cases, and always succeeded, although in some of them the affections imitated
were of a very complex character, such as paralysis of half the tongue. With these facts in
view, the alleged experiences of the older mesmerists appear by no means impossible.

APPENDICES

I.   IN DEFENCE OF A GREAT AND BELOVED POET WHOSE CHARACTER IS
     DELINEATED IN THIS STORY.

II.  A KEY TO "AYLWIN," BY THOMAS ST. E. HAKE,
     REPRINTED FROM "NOTES AND QUERIES."

Certain remarks that have been made upon the character of D'Arcy in Aylwin have rendered it
an imperative--nay, a sacred--duty for the author to seize an opportunity that may never occur
again of saying here a few words upon the subject.

It is universally acknowledged that characters in fiction are not creations projected from
the author's inner consciousness, but are founded more or less upon characters that he was
brought into contact with in real life.

Mr. A. C. Benson, in his monograph on D. G. Rossetti, in English Men of Letters, says, 'It
was for a long time hoped that Mr. Watts-Dunton would give the memoir of his great friend to
the world, but there is such a thing as knowing a man too well to be his biographer. It is,
however, an open secret that a vivid sketch of Rossetti's personality has been given to the
world in Mr. Watts-Dunton's well-known romance Aylwin, where the artist D'Arcy is drawn from
Rossetti.'

Since the appearance of these words many people who take an increasing interest in the most
mysterious and romantic figure in the artistic world of the mid-Victorian period, have urged
the author to tell them whether the portrait of Rossetti in Aylwin is a true one, or whether
it is not idealized as certain cynical critics have affirmed. Nothing but the dread of being
charged with egotism has prevented the author's stating publicly, and once for all, that the
portrait of Rossetti in Aylwin showing him to be the creature of varying moods, gay and even
frolicsome at one moment, profoundly meditative at the next, deeply dejected at the next, but
always the most winsome of men, is true to the life. It is more than hinted in the story that
D'Arcy's melancholy was the result of the loss of one he deeply loved. From such a loss it
was that Rossetti's melancholy moods resulted. There are documentary evidences of the verisimilitude
of the picture in every respect. Let one be given out of many. There exists a pathetic record
that has never yet been published, by one who knew Rossetti--knew him with special intimacy--the
poet Swinburne--depicting the great tragedy which darkened Rossetti's life--the loss of his wife.

It gives the only authorized account of that tragedy--a tragedy which ever since the publication
of William Bell Scott's Autobiographical Notes has been so grievously misunderstood and misrepresented.
In this narrative Swinburne tells how, when first introduced to Rossetti, he himself was an
Oxford undergraduate of twenty. He records how he and Rossetti had lived on terms of affectionate
intimacy: shaped and coloured on Rossetti's side by the cordial kindness and exuberant generosity
which, to the last, distinguished his recognition of younger men's efforts: on his (Swinburne's)
part by gratitude as loyal and admiration as fervent as ever strove and ever failed to express
'all the sweet and sudden passion of youth towards greatness in its elder.' He records how,
during that year, he had come to know, and to regard with little less than a brother's affection,
the noble lady whom Rossetti had recently married. He records how on the evening of her terrible
death, they all three had dined together at a restaurant which Rossetti had been accustomed
to frequent. He records how next morning, on coming by appointment to sit for his portrait,
he heard that she had died in the night, under circumstances which afterwards made necessary
his (Swinburne's) appearance and evidence at the inquest held on her remains. He dwells upon
the anguish of the widower, when next they met, under the roof of the mother with whom he had
sought refuge. He records how Rossetti appealed to his friendship in the name of the dead lady's
regard for him--a regard such as she had felt for no other of Rossetti's friends--to cleave
to him in this time of sorrow, to come and keep house with him as soon as a residence could
be found.

Can there be a more convincing and a more beautiful testimony as to a friend's sorrow and its
cause?

Over and above the touching testimony of Swinburne, no one will deny that if ever one man knew
another too well to be his biographer, as Mr. Benson says, the author of Aylwin was that man
with regard to Rossetti. No one has ever ventured to challenge the assertion in the article
on Rossetti in the Encyclopædia Britannica that there was a time when with the exception of
his own family the poet-painter saw scarcely any one save the writer of this book, whom he
was never tired of designating his friend of friends. There is no need to multiply instances
of this friendship, which has been enlarged upon by Rossetti's brother, and by many others.
Elizabeth Luther Gary, in the best of all the books upon Rossetti, published by G. P. Putnam's
Sons two years after the first edition of Aylwin, speaks of D'Arcy as being 'the mouthpiece
of Rossetti.'

It may be added that Rossetti's Ballads and Sonnets, published in 1882, were dedicated to the
author in these words: 'To the Friend whom my verse won for me, these few more pages are affectionately
inscribed.' When he drew his last breath at Birchington it was in that friend's arms. It is
necessary to dwell upon such facts as the above to show how fully equipped is the author of
Aylwin for understanding and depicting the great poet-painter, to whose memory he addressed
the sonnet at the head of this note.

As to the personality of Rossetti, to which Mr. Benson alludes, to say that it was the one
that stood out among the lives of the Victorian poets is to state the case very feebly. It
has been the fortune of the delineator of D'Arcy to be thrown intimately across several of
the great poets of his time, not one of whom displayed a personality so dominant as Rossetti's.
Fine as is Rossetti's poetry and fine as are his paintings, they but inadequately represent
the man. As to his personal fascination, among all the poets of England we have no record of
anything equal to it. It asserted itself not only in relation to the pre-Raphaelite group,
but in relation to all other members of society with whom he was brought into contact. To describe
the magnetism of such a man is, of course, impossible. Much has been written upon what is called
the demonic power in certain individuals--the power of casting one's own influence over all
others. Napoleon's case is generally instanced as a typical one. But Napoleon's demonic power
was of a self-conscious kind. It would seem, however, that there is another kind of demonic
power--the power of shedding quite unconsciously one's personality upon all brought into contact
with it. The demonic power of Rossetti, like that of D'Arcy in this story, was quite unconscious.
In Rossetti's presence, as in D'Arcy's, it was impossible not to yield to this strange, mysterious
power. At the time when he was not so entirely reclusive as he afterwards became, when he used
to meet all sorts of people, the author had many opportunities of noticing its effect upon
others. He has seen them try to resist it, and in vain. On a certain occasion a very eminent
man, much used to society, and much used to the brilliant literary clubs of London, was quite
cowed and silenced before Rossetti. It is necessary to dwell upon these subtle distinctions,
because this is the D'Arcy who, as a critic has remarked, 'is the real protagonist of Aylwin--although
the reader does not discover it until the very end of the story, where D'Arcy is the character
who unravels and explains all.' Without D'Arcy, indeed, and the demonic power possessed by
him, the story would have no existence.

It is, of course, in the illustrated editions of Aylwin that D'Arcy's identification with Rossetti
and his importance in the story become specially manifest. On page 204 of the illustrated editions
an exact picture has been given by Rossetti's pupil, Dunn, of the famous studio at 16 Cheyne
Walk--the studio which will always be associated with Rossetti's name. It has been immortalized
by his friend, Dr. Gordon Hake, in the following lines addressed to the author of Aylwin in
the sonnet-sequence, The New Day:

       Sitting with him, his tones as Petrarch's tender,
         With many a speaking vision on the wall,
       The fire, a-blaze, flashing the studio fender,
         Closed in from London shouts and ceaseless brawl--
       Twas you brought Nature to the visiting,
         Till she herself seemed breathing in the room,
       And Art grew fragrant in the glow of Spring
         With homely scents of gorse and heather bloom.
       Or sunbeams shone by many an Alpine fountain,
         Fed by the waters of the forest stream;
       Or glacier-glories in the rock-girt mountain,
         Where they so often fed the poet's dream;
       Or else was mingled the rough billow's glee
       With cries of petrels on a sullen sea.

Again on page 393 of the same editions will be found Miss May Morris's beautiful water colour
of Kelmscott Manor, the country-house jointly occupied by Rossetti and William Morris in which
takes place what has been called 'the crucial scene in Aylwin.'

APPENDIX II

So many questions about the characters depicted in Aylwin were put to the editor of Notes and
Queries that he suggested that a key to the novel would he found acceptable. Some weeks after
this suggestion was made there appeared in that journal (7th June 1902) the following contribution
by Mr. Thomas St. E. Hake, an intimate friend of Rossetti, and of other leading characters
of the story. The republication of it here has been kindly sanctioned by Mr. J. C. Francis,
a name so indissolubly associated both with the Athenæum and Notes and Queries. Mr. Hake writes
as follows:

Ever since the publication of Aylwin I have, at various times, seen in Notes and Queries, the
Daily Chronicle, the Contemporary Review, and other organs, inquiries as to the identification
of the characters that appear in that story. And now that an inquiry comes from so remote a
place as Libau in Russia, I think I may come forward and say what I know on the subject. But,
of course, within the limited space that could possibly be allotted to me in Notes and Queries,
I can only say a few words on a subject that would require many pages to treat adequately.
Until Aylwin appeared, Mr. Joseph Knight's monograph on Rossetti in the 'Great Writers' series
was, with the sole exception of what has been written about him by his own family and by my
late father, Dr. Gordon Hake, in his Memoirs of Eighty Years, the only account that gave the
reader the least idea of the man--his fascination, his brilliance, his generosity, and his
whimsical qualities. But in Aylwin Rossetti lives as I knew him; it is impossible to imagine
a more living picture of the man. I have stayed with Rossetti at 16 Cheyne Walk for weeks at
a time, and at Bognor also, and at Kelmscott--the 'Hurstcote' of Aylwin. With regard to 'Hurstcote,'
I well knew 'the large bedroom with low-panelled walls and the vast antique bedstead made of
black carved oak' upon which Winifred Wynne slept. In fact, the only thing in the description
of this room that I do not remember is the beautiful Madonna and Child upon the frame of which
was written 'Chiaro dell' Erma' (readers of Hand and Soul will remember that name). These pictures
were not permanently placed there, but, as it chanced, they were there (for retouching) on
a certain occasion when I was visiting at Kelmscott. With regard to the green room in which
Winifred took her first breakfast at 'Hurstcote' I am a little in confusion. It seems to me
more like the green dining-room in Cheyne Walk, decorated with antique mirrors, which was painted
by Dunn, showing Rossetti reading his poems aloud. This is the only portrait of Rossetti that
really calls up the man before me. As Mr. Watts-Dunton is the owner of Dunn's drawing, and
as so many people want to see what Rossetti's famous Chelsea house was like inside, it is a
pity he does not give it as a frontispiece to some future edition of Aylwin. Unfortunately,
Mr. G. F. Watts's picture, now in the National Portrait Gallery, was never finished, and I
never saw upon Rossetti's face the dull, heavy expression which that portrait wears. I think
the poet told me that he had given the painter only one or two sittings. As to the photographs,
none of them is really satisfactory.

The 'young gentleman from Oxford who has been acting as my secretary,' as mentioned in Aylwin,
was my brother. But they are evidently the mirrors decorated with copies of the lost Holy Grail
frescoes once existing on the walls of the Union Reading-Room at Oxford. These beautiful decorations
I have seen at 'The Pines,' but not elsewhere. I have often seen 'D'Arcy' in the company of
several of the other characters introduced into Aylwin; for instance, 'De Castro' and 'Symonds'
(the late F. R. Leyland, at that time the owner of the Leyland line of steamers, living at
Prince's Gate, where was the famous Peacock Room painted by Mr. Whistler). I did not myself
know that quaint character Mrs. Titwing, but I have been told by people who knew her well that
she is true to the life. With regard to 'De Castro,' it is a matter of regret to those who
knew him that, after giving us that most vivid scene between 'D'Arcy' and 'De Castro' at Scott's
oyster-rooms (a place which Rossetti was very fond of frequenting in those nocturnal rambles
that caused 'De Castro' to give him the name of Haroun al Raschid), the author did not go on
and paint to the full the most extraordinary man of the very extraordinary group, the centre
of which was Rossetti's Chelsea house. Rossetti was a well-known figure at Scott's and at Rule's
oyster-rooms at the time he encountered 'Henry Aylwin.' That scene at Scott's is, in my opinion,
the most living thing in the book--a picture that whenever I turn to it makes me feel that
everything said and done must have occurred. 'De Castro' seemed to belong not merely to the
Rossetti group, but to all groups, for he was brought into touch with almost every remarkable
man of his time, and fascinated every one of them. Literary and artistic London was once full
of stories of him, and no one that knew him doubted he was what must be called a man of genius--although
a barren genius. Among others, he was brought into close relations with Ruskin, Burne-Jones,
and, I think, Smetham ('Wilderspin'), and others.

[Footnote: This was George Hake, who died in Central Africa a few years ago.]

Rossetti used to say that since Blake there has been no more visionary painter in the art world
than Smetham. Rossetti had a quite affectionate feeling towards Smetham, and several of his
pictures (small ones) were on Rossetti's studio walls. I remember one or two extraordinary
pictures of his--especially one depicting a dragon in a fen, of which Rossetti had a great
opinion; and I believe this, with other pictures of Smetham's, is in the hands of Mr. Watts-Dunton.
The author of Aylwin would have been much amused had he seen, as I did, in an American magazine
the statement that 'Wilderspin' was identified with William Morris--a man who was as much the
opposite of the visionary painter as a man can be. Morris, whom I had the privilege of knowing
very well, and with whom I have stayed at Kelmscott during the Rossetti period, is alluded
to in Aylwin (chap. ix. book xv.) as the 'enthusiastic angler' who used to go down to 'Hurstcote'
to fish. At that time this fine old seventeenth-century manor house was in the joint occupancy
of Rossetti and Morris. 'Wilderspin' was Smetham with a variation: certain characteristics
of another painter of genius were introduced, I believe, into the portrait of him in Aylwin;
and the story of 'Wilderspin's' early life was not that of Smetham.

But a more singular mistake with regard to the Aylwin characters than that of Morris being
confounded with 'Wilderspin' was that of confounding, as certain newspaper paragraphs at the
time did, 'Cyril Aylwin' with Mr. Whistler. I am especially able to speak of this character,
who has been inquired about more than any other in the book. I knew him, I think, even before
I knew Rossetti and Morris, or any of that group. He was a brother of Mr. Watts-Dunton's--Mr.
Alfred Eugene Watts. He lived at Park House, Sydenham, and died suddenly either in 1870 or
1871, very shortly after I had met him at a wedding party. Among the set in which I moved at
that time he had a great reputation as a wit and humorist. His style of humour always struck
me as being more American than English. While bringing out humorous things that would set a
dinner-table in a roar, he would himself maintain a perfectly unmoved countenance. And it was
said of him, as 'Wilderspin' says of 'Cyril Aylwin,' that he was never known to laugh. The
pen-picture of him in Aylwin is one of the most vivid things in the book.

With regard to the most original character in the story, those who knew Clement's Inn, where
I myself once resided, and Lincoln's Inn Fields, will be able at once to identify Mrs. Gudgeon,
who lived in one of the streets running into Clare Market. Her business was that of night coffee-stall
keeper. At one time, I believe--but I am not certain about this--she kept a stall on the Surrey
side of Waterloo Bridge, and it might have been there that, as I have been told, her portrait
was drawn for a specified number of early breakfasts by an unfortunate artist who sank very
low, but had real ability. Her constant phrase was 'I shall die o' laughin'--I know I shall!'
On account of her extra-ordinary gift of repartee, and her inexhaustible fund of wit and humour,
she was generally supposed to be an Irishwoman. But she was not: she was cockney to the marrow.
Recluse as Rossetti was in his later years, he had at one time been very different, and could
bring himself in touch with the lower orders of London in a way such as was only known to his
most intimate friends. With all her impudence, and I may say insolence, Mrs. Gudgeon was a
great favourite with the police, who were the constant butts of her chaff.

With regard to the gipsies, although I knew George Borrow intimately, and saw a great deal
of Mr. Watts-Dunton's other Romany Rye friend, the late Frank Groome, I did not know Sinfi
Lovell or Rhona Boswell. But I may say that those who have said that Sinfi Lovell was painted
from the same model as Mr. Meredith's Kiomi are mistaken. Sinfi Lovell was extremely beautiful,
whereas Kiomi, I believe, was never very beautiful. But that they are represented as being
contemporaries and friends is shown by D'Arcy's mention of Kiomi in Scott's oyster-rooms. The
characters who figure in the early Raxton scenes I cannot speak of for reasons which may be
pretty obvious; nor can I speak of the Welsh chapters in Aylwin, which have been a good deal
discussed in recent numbers of Notes and Queries. But being myself an East Anglian by birth--one
of my Christian names is St. Edmund, because I was born at Bury St. Edmunds--I can say something
about what the East Anglian papers call 'Aylwinland,' and of the truth of the pictures of the
east coast to be found in the story, Since Aylwin was published an interesting attempt has
been made by a correspondent in the Lowestoft Standard (25th August 1900) to identify Pakefield
Church as the 'Raxton' Church of the story, and the writer of the letter mentions the most
remarkable, and to me quite new fact, that although the guide-books of Lowestoft and the district
are quite silent as to a curious crypt at the east end of Pakefield Church, there is exactly
such a crypt as that described in Aylwin, and that in the early days of the correspondent in
question it was used as a storehouse for bones.

In Notes and Queries [9th S., ix. 369, 450; x. 16] a letter had appeared, signed 'Jay Aitch,'
inquiring as to the school of mystics founded by Lavater, alluded to on page 83 of the Illustrated
Aylwin. This afforded Mr. Thomas St. E. Hake another opportunity of unloading his wallet of
Rossetti and Aylwin lore. And in the same journal, for 2nd August 1902, he wrote as follows:

The question raised by Jay Aitch as to the school of mystics founded by Lavater, and the large
book The Veiled Queen, by 'Philip Aylwin,' which contains quotations that Jay Aitch affirms
have haunted him ever since he read them, are certainly questions about as interesting as any
that could have been raised in connexion with the story. And in answering these queries I find
an opportunity of saying a few authentic words on a subject upon which many unauthentic ones
have been-uttered--that of the occultism of D. G, Rossetti and some of his friends. It has
been frequently said that Rossetti was a spiritualist, and it is a fact that he went to several
séances; but the word 'spiritualism' seems to have a rather elastic meaning. A spiritualist,
as distinguished from a materialist, Rossetti certainly was, but his spiritualism was not,
I should say, that which in common parlance bears this name. It was exactly like 'Aylwinism,'
which seems to have been related to the doctrines of the Lavaterian sect about which Jay Aitch
inquires. As a matter of fact, it was not the original of 'Wilderspin' nearly so much as the
original D'Arcy who was captured by the doctrine of what is called in the story the 'Aylwinian.'

With regard to Johann Kaspar Lavater, Jay Aitch is no doubt aware that, although this once
noted writer's fame rests entirely upon his treatise Physiognomische Fragmente, he founded
a school of mystics in Switzerland. This was before what is called spiritualism came into vogue.
I believe that the doctrines of The Veiled Queen are closely related to the doctrines of the
Lavaterians; but my knowledge on this matter is of a second-hand kind, and is derived from
conversations upon Lavater and his claims as a physiognomist, which I heard many years ago
at Coombe and during walks in Richmond Park, between the author of Aylwin and my father, who,
admittedly a man of intellectual grasp, went even further than Lavater.

A writer in the Literary World, in some admirable remarks upon this story, is, as far as I
know, the only critic who has dwelt upon the extraordinary character of 'Philip Aylwin.' He says:

'The melancholy, the spiritual isolation, and the passionate love of this master-mystic for
his dead wife are so finely rendered that the reader's sympathies go out at once to this most
pathetic and lonely figure....It would be difficult for any sensitive man or woman to follow
Philip Aylwin's story as related by his son without the tribute of aching heart and scalding
tears. To our thinking, the man's sanity is more moving, more supremely tragic, than even the
madness of Winifred, which is the culminating tragedy of the book.'

I must say that I agree with this writer in thinking 'Philip Aylwin' to be the most impressive
character in the story. The most remarkable feature of the novel, indeed, is that, although
'Philip Aylwin' disappears from the scene so early, his opinions, his character, and his dreams
are cast so entirely over the book from beginning to end that the novel might have been called
Philip Aylwin. I have a special interest in this character, because I knew the undoubted original
of the character with a considerable amount of intimacy. Without the permission of the author
of Aylwin, I can only touch on outward traits--the deep, spiritual life of this man is beyond
me. Although a very near relation, he was not, as has been so often surmised, the author's
father. [Footnote] He was a man of extraordinary learning in the academic sense of the word,
and possessed still more extraordinary general knowledge. He lived for many years the strangest
kind of hermit life, surrounded by his books and old manuscripts. His two great passions were
philology and occultism. He knew more, I think, of those strange writers discussed in Vaughan's
Hours with the Mystics than any other person--including, perhaps, Vaughan himself; but he managed
to combine with his love of Mysticism a deep passion for the physical sciences, especially
astronomy. He seemed to be learning languages up to almost the last year of his life. His method
of learning languages was the opposite of that of George Borrow, that is to say, he made great
use of grammars; and when he died it is said that from four to five hundred treatises on grammar
were found among his books. He used to express great contempt for Borrow's method of learning
languages from dictionaries only.

[Footnote: He was Mr. Watts-Dunton's uncle--Mr. James Orlando Watts.]

I do not think that any one connected with literature--with the exception of Mr. Watts-Dunton,
Mr. Swinburne, my father, and Dr. R. G. Latham--knew so much of him as I did. His personal
appearance was exactly like that of 'Philip Aylwin,' as described in the novel. Although he
never wrote poetry, he translated, I believe, a good deal from the Spanish and Portuguese poets.
I remember that he was an extraordinary admirer of Shelley. His knowledge of Shakespeare and
the Elizabethan dramatists was a link between him and Mr. Swinburne.

At a time when I was a busy reader at the British Museum Reading-Room, I used frequently to
see him, and he never seemed to know any one among the readers except myself, and whenever
he spoke to me it was always in a hushed whisper, lest he should disturb the other readers,
which in his eyes would have been a heinous offence. For very many years he had been extremely
well known to the second-hand booksellers, for he was a constant purchaser of their wares.
He was a great pedestrian, and, being very much attached to the north of London, would take
long, slow tramps ten miles out in the direction of Highgate, Wood Green, etc. I have a very
distinct recollection of calling upon him in Myddelton Square at the time when I was living
close to him in Percy Circus. Books were piled up from floor to ceiling, apparently in great
confusion, but he seemed to remember where to find every book and what there was in it. It
is a singular fact that the only person outside those I have mentioned who seems to have known
him was that brilliant but eccentric journalist, Thomas Purnell, who had an immense opinion
of him and used to call him 'the scholar.' How Purnell managed to break through the icy wall
that surrounded the recluse always puzzled me; but I suppose they must have come across one
another at one of those pleasant inns in the north of London where 'the scholar' was taking
his chop and bottle of Beaune. He was a man that never made new friends, and as one after another
of his old friends died he was left so entirely alone that, I think, he saw no one except Mr.
Swinburne, the author of Aylwin, and myself. But at Christmas he always spent a week at 'The
Pines,' when and where my father and I used to meet him. His memory was so powerful that he
seemed to be able to recall not only all that he had read, but the very conversations in which
he had taken a part. He died, I think, at a little over eighty, and his faculties up to the
last were exactly like those of a man in the prime of life. He always reminded me of Charles
Lamb's description of George Dyer.

Such is my outside picture of this extraordinary man; and it is only of externals that I am
free to speak here, even if I were competent to touch upon his inner life. He was a still greater
recluse than the 'Philip Aylwin' of the novel. I think I am right in saying that he took up
one or two Oriental tongues when he was seventy years of age. Another of his passions was numismatics,
and it was in these studies that he sympathized with the author of Aylwin's friend, the late
Lord de Tabley. I remember one story of his peculiarities which will give an idea of the kind
of man he was. He had a brother who was the exact opposite of him in every way--strikingly
good-looking, with great charm of mariner and savoir faire, but with an ordinary intellect
and a very superficial knowledge of literature, or, indeed, anything else, except records of
British military and naval exploits--where he was really learned. Being full of admiration
of his student brother, and having a parrot-like instinct for mimicry, he used to talk with
great volubility upon all kinds of subjects wherever he went, and repeat in the same words
what he had been listening to from his brother, until at last he got to be called the 'walking
encyclopedia.' The result was that he got the reputation of being a great reader and an original
thinker, while the true student and book-lover was frequently complimented on the way in which
he took after his learned brother. This did not in the least annoy the real student, it simply
amused him, and he would give with a dry humour most amusing stories as to what people had
said to him on this subject.

THOMAS ST. E. HAKE.

The editor of Notes and Queries has the following footnote:

'We hail some acquaintance with the being Mr. Hake depicts (Mr. James Orlando Watts) and can
testify to the truth of the portraiture.'