WITH THE BIRDS.

Not in the spirit of exact science, but rather with the freedom of love and old acquaintance,
would I celebrate some of the minstrels of the field and forest,--these accredited and authenticated
poets of Nature.

All day, while the rain has pattered and murmured, have I heard the notes of the Robin and
the Wood-Thrush; the Red-Eyed Flycatcher has pursued his game within a few feet of my window,
darting with a low, complacent warble amid the dripping leaves, looking as dry and unruffled
as if a drop of rain had never touched him; the Cat-Bird has flirted and attitudinized on my
garden-fence; the House-Wren stopped a moment between the showers, and indulged in a short,
but spirited, rehearsal under a large leaf in the grape-arbor; the King-Bird advised me of
his proximity, as he went by on his mincing flight; and the Chimney-Swallows have been crying
the child's riddle of "Chippy, chippy, cherryo," about the house-top.

With these angels and ministers of grace thus to attend me, even in the seclusion of my closet,
I am led more than ever to expressions of love and admiration. I understand the enthusiasm
of Wilson and Audubon, and see how one might forsake house and home and go and live with them
the free life of the woods.

To the dissecting, classifying scientist a bird may be no more perfect or lovable than a squirrel
or a fish; yet to me it seems that all the excellences of the animal creation converge and
centre in this nymph of the air; a warbler seems to be the finishing stroke.

First, there is its light, delicate, aërial organization,--consequently, its vivacity, its
high temperature, the depth and rapidity of its inspirations, and likewise the intense, gushing,
lyrical character of its life. How hot he is! how fast he lives!--as if his air had more oxygen
than ours, or his body less clay. How slight a wound kills him! how exquisite his sensations!
how perfect his nervous system! and hence how large his brain! Why, look at the cerebral development
of this tiny songster,--almost a third larger, in proportion to the size of its body, than
that of Shakspeare even! Does it mean nothing? You may observe that a warbler has a much larger
brain and a much finer cerebral organization throughout than a bird of prey, or any of the
Picus family even. Does it signify nothing? I gaze into the eyes of the Gazelle,--eyes that
will admit of no epithet or comparison,--and the old question of preëxistence and transmigration
rises afresh in my mind, and something like a dim recognition of kinship passes. I turn this
Thrush in my hand,--I remember its strange ways, the curious look it gave me, its ineffable
music, its freedom, and its ecstasy,--and I tremble lest I have slain a being diviner than myself.

And then there is its freedom, its superior powers of locomotion, its triumph over time and
space. The reptile measures its length upon the ground; the quadruped enjoys a more complete
liberation, and is related to the earth less closely; man more still; and the bird most of
all. Over our heads, where our eyes travel, but our bodies follow not,--in the free native
air,--is his home. The trees are his temples and his dwellings, and the breezes sing his lullaby.
He needs no sheltering; for the rain does not wet him. He need fear no cold; for the tropics
wait upon his wings. He is the nearest visible representation of a spirit I know of. He flies,--the
superlative of locomotion; the poet in his most audacious dreams dare confer no superior power
on flesh and blood. Sound and odor are no more native to the air than is the Swallow. Look
at this marvellous creature! He can reverse the order of the seasons, and almost keep the morning
or the sunset constantly in his eye, or outstrip the west-wind cloud. Does he subsist upon
air or odor, that he is forever upon the wing, and never deigns to pick a seed or crumb from
the earth? Is he an embodied thought projected from the brain of some mad poet in the dim past,
and sent to teach us a higher geometry of curves and spirals? See him with that feather high
in air, dropping it and snapping it up again in the very glee of superabundant vitality, and
in his sudden evolutions and spiral gambollings seeming more a creature of the imagination
than of actual sight!

And, again, their coming and going, how curious and suggestive!

About the middle of September I go out in the woods, and am attracted by a faint piping and
lisping in the tops of the Oaks and Chestnuts. Tiny figures dart to and fro so rapidly that
it pains the eye to follow them, and I discover that the Black-Poll Warbler is paying me a
return visit. Presently I likewise perceive a troop of Redstarts, or Green-Backed Warblers,
or Golden and Ruby-Crowned Wrens, flashing through the Chestnut-branches, or hanging like jewels
on the Cedar-sprays. A week of two later, and my darlings are gone, another love is in my heart,
and other voices fill my ears. But so unapparent and mysterious are the coming and going, that
I look upon each as a special Providence, and value them as visitants from another sphere.

The migration of the Pigeons, Ducks, and Geese is obvious enough; we see them stream across
the heavens, or hear their clang in the night; but these minstrels of the field and forest
add to their other charms a shade of mystery, and pique the imagination by their invisible
and unknown journeyings. To be sure, we know they follow the opening season north and the retreating
summer south; but who will point to the parallels that mark the limits of their wandering,
or take us to their most secret haunts?

What greater marvel than this simple gift of music? What beside birds and the human species
sing? It is the crowning gift; through it the field and forest are justified. Nature said,
"These rude forms and forces must have a spokesman of their own nursing; here are flowers and
odor, let there be music also." I suspect the subtile spirit of the meadow took form in the
Bobolink, that the high pasture-lands begot the Vesper-Sparrow, and that from the imprisoned
sense and harmony of the forests sprang the Wood-Thrush.

From the life of birds being on a more intense and vehement scale than that of other animals
result their musical gifts and their holiday expression of joy. How restless and curious they
are! Their poise and attitudes, how various, rapid, and graceful! They are a study for an artist,
especially as exhibited in the Warblers and Flycatchers: their looks of alarm, of curiosity,
of repose, of watchfulness, of joy, so obvious and expressive, yet as impossible of reproduction
as their music. Even if the naturalist were to succeed in imparting all their wild extravagances
of poise and motion to their inanimate forms, his birds, to say the least, would have a very
theatrical or melodramatic aspect, and seem unreal in proportion to their fidelity to Nature.
I have seen a Blue Jay alone, saluting and admiring himself in the mirror of a little pool
of water from a low overhanging branch, assume so many graceful, novel, as well as ridiculous
and fantastic attitudes, as would make a taxidermist run mad to attempt to reproduce; and the
rich medley of notes he poured forth at the same time--chirping, warbling, cooing, whistling,
chattering, revealing rare musical and imitative powers--would have been an equally severe
test to the composer who should have aspired to report them; and the indignant air of outraged
privacy he assumed, on finding himself discovered, together with his loud, angry protest, as,
with crown depressed and plumage furled, he rapidly ascended to the topmost branch of a tall
Birch, the better to proclaim my perfidy to the whole world, would have excited the interest
and applause of the coolest observer.

So much in a general sense; but let me discriminate; "for my purpose holds" to call my favorites
by name, and point them out to you, as the tuneful procession passes.

Every stage of the advancing season gives prominence to certain birds as to certain flowers.
The Dandelion tells me when to look for the Swallow, and I know the Thrushes will not linger
when the Orchis is in bloom. From Robin's good looks and musical turn we might reasonably predict
a domicil of equal fitness and elegance. Did they grow, like the flowers, when the conditions
favorable to their existence were established?

But to return. The Bluebird and Song-Sparrow, these universal favorites and firstlings of the
spring, come before April, and their names are household words. Is he an exile from some other
sphere, and are his loneliness and indifference the result of a hopeless, yet resigned soul?
Or has he passed through some terrible calamity or bereavement, that has overpowered his sensibilities,
rendering him dreamy and semi-conscious? Something remote seems ever weighing upon his mind.
He deposits his eggs in the nests of other birds, having no heart for work or domestic care.
He wanders from place to place,

          "An invisible thing,
    A voice, a mystery."

You will probably hear him a score of times to seeing him once. I rarely discover him in the
woods, except when on a protracted stay; but when in June he makes his gastronomic tour of
the garden and orchard, regaling himself upon canker-worms, he is quite noticeable. Since food
of some kind is a necessity, he seems resolved to burden himself as little as possible with
the care of obtaining it, and so devours these creeping horrors with the utmost matter-of-course
air.

Without any exception, his plumage is the richest brown I am acquainted with in Nature, and
is unsurpassed in the qualities both of firmness and fineness.

One of the most marvellous little songsters whose acquaintance I claim is the White-Eyed Flycatcher.
He seems to have been listened to by unappreciative ears, for I know no one who has made especial
mention of him.

The Hermit-Thrush, the Wood-Thrush, and the Veery (Turdus Wilsonii) are our peers of song.
Professor Baird, of the Smithsonian Institution, a more recent authority, and an excellent
observer, tells me he regards it as preëminently our finest songster. I myself erred in this
manner, and not till I had shot the bird in the midst of his solemn hymn--a hard thing to do,
I assure you--was I aware that my Wood-Thrush had a superior. I believe so good an observer
as Thoreau has confounded the songs of the two birds, as he speaks of having heard the Wood-Thrush
in the forests of Northern Maine, where the law of geographical distribution would lead one
to look for only the Hermit.

The song of this Thrush is of unparalleled sweetness and sublimity. There is a calmness and
solemnity about it that suggests in Nature perpetual Sabbath and perennial joy. How vain seem
our hurry and ambition! Clear and serene, strong and melodious, falling softly, yet flowing
far, these notes inspire me with a calm, sacred enthusiasm. I hear him most in the afternoon,
but occasionally at nightfall he "pours his pure soprano,"

    "Deepening the silence with diviner calm."

I have known one to sit for hours in the upper branches of a tall Maple in an opening in a
remote wood, and sing till all other birds seemed as if pausing to listen. Attempting to approach
him at such times, I have called to my aid numerous devices,--such as keeping the range of
a tree, skulking close to the ground, carrying a large bush in front of me,--but all to no
purpose. Suddenly the strain would cease, and while waiting for him to commence again, I would
see him dart off to a lower tree, or into a thick undergrowth of Witch-Hazel. When I had withdrawn,
he would resume his perch and again take up his song. At other times I have come abruptly upon
him while singing on a low stump, without his seeming to notice me at all.

I think his song, in form and manner, is precisely that of the Wood-Thrush,--differing from
it in being more wild and ethereal, as well as stronger and clearer. It is not the execution
of the piece so much as the tone of the instrument that is superior. In the subdued trills
and quavers that occur between the main bars, you think his tongue must be more resonant and
of finer metal. In uttering the tinkling, bead-like de, de, de, he is more facile and exquisite;
in the longer notes he possesses greater compass and power, and is more prodigal of his finer
tones. How delicately he syllables the minor parts, weaving, as it were, the finest of silver
embroideries to the main texture of his song!

Those who have heard only the Wood-Thrush commit a very pardonable error in placing him first
on the list of our songsters. It was not different in quality so much as in quantity. Such
a flood of it! Such magnificent copiousness! What the emotions of the parent birds were, on
seeing their destroyer's head so thoroughly bruised, and a part of their little ones at least
spared to them, I can only conjecture; but I imagined the news spread immediately, and that
my praises as the deliverer were sung in that neighborhood ever after. You might think him
studying the atmosphere or the light, for he has an air of contemplation and not of watchfulness.
Sometimes a squirrel or bird or an unsuspecting barn-fowl is scathed and withered beneath this
terrible visitation. He might sleep dream in that level, effortless, aimless sail.

GOLD EGG.--A DREAM-FANTASY.

HOW A STUDENT IN SEARCH OF THE BEAUTIFUL FELL ASLEEP OVER HERR PROFESSOR DOCTOR VISCHER'S "WISSENSCHAFT
DES SCHÖNEN," AND WHAT CAME THEREOF.

    1.

    I swam with undulation soft,
      Adrift on Vischer's ocean,
    And, from my cockboat up aloft,
    Sent down my mental plummet oft,
      In hope to reach a notion.

    2.

    But from the metaphysic sea
      No bottom was forthcoming,
    And all the while (so drowsily!)
    In one eternal note of B
      My German stove kept humming.

    3.

    What's Beauty? mused I. Is it told
      By synthesis? analysis?
    Have you not made us lead of gold?
    To feed your crucible, not sold
      Our temple's sacred chalices?

    4.

    Then o'er my senses came a change:
      My book seemed all traditions,
    Old legends of profoundest range,
    Diablerie, and stories strange
      Of goblins, elves, magicians.

    5.

    Truth was, my outward eyes were closed,
      Although I did not know it;
    Deep into Dreamland I had dozed,
    And found me suddenly transposed
      From proser into poet.

    6.

    So what I read took flesh and blood
      And turned to living creatures;
    The words were but the dingy bud
    That bloomed, like Adam from the mud,
      To human forms and features.

    7.
    I saw how Zeus was lodged once more
      By Baucis and Philemon;
    The text said, "Not alone of yore,
    But every day at every door
      Knocks still the masking Demon."

    8.

    DAIMON 't was printed in the book;
      And as I read it slowly,
    The letters moved and changed and took
    Jove's stature, the Olympian look
      Of painless melancholy.

    9.

    He paused upon the threshold worn:--
      "With coin I cannot pay you;
    Yet would I fain make some return,--
    You will not the gift's cheapness spurn,--
      Accept this fowl, I pray you.

    10.

    "Plain feathers wears my Hemera,
      And has from ages olden;
    She makes her nest in common hay;
    And yet, of all the birds that lay,
      Her eggs alone are golden."

    11.

