Old Storace (the father of the celebrated composer) had lost nearly all his teeth at rather
an early period of his life. This, to one who was decidedly a bon vivant, was a great annoyance.
A dentist of eminence undertook to supply the defect: he drew the few teeth which, remained,
and fitted the patient with an entire new set, which acted by means of springs, and were removable
at pleasure. The operation was so skilfully performed, and the resemblance so good, that Storace
flattered himself that no one could discover the deception. Being one day in company with Foster
(a performer in the Drury Lane orchestra, and one celebrated among his companions for quaintness
and humour), he said, "Now, Foster, I'll surprise you--I'll show you something you never could
have guessed." So saying, he took out the ivory teeth, and exclaimed with an air of triumph,
"There, what do you think of that?" "Poh! nonsense! surprise me," replied Foster, "I knew perfectly
well they were false." "How the devil could you know that?" said Storace. "Why," rejoined Foster,
"I never knew anything true come out of your mouth!"--Athenæum.

        *       *       *       *       *

The King of Prussia, in his correspondence with Voltaire, relates the following anecdote of
the Czar Peter, as illustrative of Russian despotism:--"I knew Printz, the great marshal of
the court of Prussia, who had been ambassador to the Czar Peter, in the reign of the late king.
The commission with which he was charged proving very acceptable, the prince was desirous of
giving him conspicuous marks of his satisfaction, and for this purpose a sumptuous banquet
was prepared, and to which Printz was invited. They drank brandy, as is customary with the
Russians, and they drank it to a brutal excess. The Czar, who wished to give a particular grace
to the entertainment, sent for twenty of the Strelitz Guards, who were confined in the prisons
of Petersburgh, and for every large bumper which they drank, this hideous monster struck-off
the head of one of these wretches. As a particular mark of respect, this unnatural prince was
desirous of procuring the ambassador the pleasure (as he called it) of trying his skill upon
these miserable creatures. The Czar was disposed to be angry at his refusal, and could not
help betraying signs of his displeasure."

W.G.C.

        *       *       *       *       *

POSTHUMOUS HONOURS.

Poliarchus, the Athenian, according to Ælian, when any of the dogs or cocks that he particularly
loved, happened to die, was so foolish as to honour them with a public funeral, and buried
them with great pomp, accompanied by his friends, whom he invited on the solemn occasion. Afterwards
he caused monumental pillars to be erected, on which were engraven their epitaphs.[4]

JOHN ESLAH.

    [4] The late Duchess of York paid the latter honours to her
        little canine friends, at Oatlands.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Ones," says he, "I communed with a man which reasoned the Englishe tongue
to be enriched and encreased thereby, sayinge, Who will not prayse that feast, where a man
shall drincke at a dinner both wyne, ale, and beere? Truly (quoth I) they be al good every
one taken by itself alone; but if you put malmesye and sack, redde wyne and white, ale and
beere, and al in one pot, you shall make a drinke neither easye to be knowen, nor holsom for
the bodye."

A.V.

        *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL WISH.

When King James I. first saw the public library at Oxford, and perceived the little chains
by which the books were fastened, he expressed his wish that if ever it should be his fate
to be a prisoner, this library might be his prison, those books his fellow prisoners, and the
chains his fetters.

J.E.H.

        *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH

On a Marine Officer, in the churchyard of Burwick-in-Elmet, Yorkshire.

  Here lies, retired from busy scenes,
  A first lieutenant of Marines,
  Who lately lived in gay content,
  On board the brave ship Diligent.

  Now stripp'd of all his warlike show,
  And laid in box of elm below,
  Confin'd in earth in narrow borders,
  He rises not till further orders.

        *       *       *       *       *

ANNUAL OF SCIENCE.