"Den surrender am 'nounced and massa tells us we's free. When dat takes place, it am 'bout
one hour by sun. I says to myself, 'I won't be here long.' But I's not realise what I's in
for till after I's started, but I couldn't turn back. For dat means de whippin' or danger from
de patter rollers. Dere I was and I kep' on gwine. No nigger am sposed to be off de massa's
place without de pass, so I travels at night and hides durin' de daylight. I stays in de bresh
and gits water from de creeks, but not much to eat. Twice I's sho' dem patter rollers am passin'
while I's hidin'.

"I's 21 year old den, but it am de first time I's gone any place, 'cept to de neighbors, so
I's worried 'bout de right way to Massa Haley's place. But de mornin' of de third day I comes
to he place and I's so hongry and tired and scairt for fear Massa Haley not home from de army
yit. So I finds my pappy and he hides me in he cabin till a week and den luck comes to me when
Massa Haley come home. He come at night and de next mornin' dat Delbridge am shunt off de place,
'cause Massa Haley seed he niggers was all gaunt and lots am ran off and de fields am not plowed
right, and only half de sheep and everything left. So massa say to dat Delbridge, 'Dere am
no words can 'splain what yous done. Git off my place 'fore I smashes you.'

"Den I kin come out from my pappy's cabin and de old massa was glad to see me, and he let me
stay till freedom am ordered. Dat's de happies' time in my life, when I gits back to Massa Haley.

     A frail sick man, neatly clad in white pajamas lying patiently in a
     clean bed awaiting the end which does not seem far away. Although
     we protested against his talking, because of his weakness, he told
     a brief story of his life in a whisper, his breath very short and
     every word was spoken with great effort. His light skin and his
     features denote no characteristic of his race, has a bald head with
     a bit of gray hair around the crown and a slight growth of gray
     whiskers about his face, is medium in height and build. WASH
     ANDERSON, although born in Charleston, S.C., has spent practically
     all of his life in Texas [Handwritten Note: (Beaumont, Texas--]

"Mos' folks call me Wash Anderson, but dey uster call me George. My whole name' George Washington
Anderson. I was bo'n in Charleston, Sou'f Ca'lina in 1855. Bill Anderson was my ol' marster.
Dey was two boy' and two gal' in his family. We all lef' Charleston and come to Orange, Texas,
befo' freedom come. I was fo' year' ol' when dey mek dat trip."

"I don' 'member nuttin' 'bout Charleston. You see where I was bo'n was 'bout two mile' from
de city. I went back one time in 1917, but I didn' stay dere long."

"My pa was Irvin' Anderson and my mommer was name' Eliza. Ol' marster was pretty rough on his
niggers. Dey tell me he had my gran'daddy beat to death. Dey never did beat me."

"Dey made de trip from Charleston 'cross de country and settle' in Duncan's Wood' down here
in Orange county. Dey had a big plantation dere. I dunno if ol' marster had money back in Charleston,
but I t'ink he must have. He had 'bout 25 or 30 slaves on de place."

"Ol' man Anderson he had a big two-story house. It was buil' out of logs but it was a big fine
house. De slaves jis' had little log huts. Dere warn't no flo's to 'em, nuthin' but de groun'.
Dem little huts jis' had one room in 'em. Dey was one family to de house, 'cep'n' sometime
dey put two or t'ree family' to a house. Dey jis' herd de slaves in dere like a bunch of pigs."

"Dey uster raise cotton, and co'n, and sugar cane, and sich like, but dey didn' uster raise
no rice. Dey uster sen' stuff to Terry on a railroad to sen' it to market. Sometime dey hitch
up dey teams and sen' it to Orange and Beaumont in wagons. De ol' marster he had a boat, too,
and sometime he sen' a boatload of his stuff to Beaumont."

"My work was to drive de surrey for de family and look atter de hosses and de harness and sich.
I jis' have de bes' hosses on de place to see atter."

"I saw lots of sojers durin' de war. I see 'em marchin' by, goin' to Sabine Pass 'bout de time
of dat battle."

"Back in slavery time dey uster have a white preacher to come 'roun' and preach to de cullud
folks. But I don't 'member much 'bout de songs what dey uster sing."

"I play 'roun' right smart when I was little. Dey uster have lots of fun playin' 'hide and
seek,' and 'hide de switch.' We uster ride stick hosses and play 'roun' at all dem t'ings what
chillun play at."

"Dey had plenty of hosses and mules and cows on de ol' plantation. I had to look atter some
of de hosses, but dem what I hatter look atter was s'pose to be de bes' hosses in de bunch.
Like I say, I drive de surrey and dey allus have de bes' hosses to pull dat surrey. Dey had
a log stable. Dey kep' de harness in dere, too. Eb'ryt'ing what de stock eat dey raise on de
plantation, all de co'n and fodder and sich like."

"Atter freedom come I went 'roun' doin' dif'rent kind of work. I uster work on steamboats,
and on de railroad and at sawmillin'. I was a sawyer for a long, long time. I work 'roun' in
Lou'sana and Arkansas, and Oklahoma, as well as in Texas. When I wasn't doin' dem kinds of
work, I uster work 'roun' at anyt'ing what come to han'. I 'member one time I was workin' for
de Burr Lumber Company at Fort Townsend up dere in Arkansas."

"When I was 'bout 36 year' ol' I git marry. I been married twice. My fus' wife was name' Hannah
and Reverend George Childress was de preacher dat marry us. He was a cullud preacher. Atter
Hannah been dead some time I marry my secon' wife. Her name was Tempie Perkins. Later on, us
sep'rate. Us sep'rate on 'count of money matters."

"I b'longs to de Baptis' Chu'ch. Sometime' de preacher come 'roun' and see me. He was here
a few days ago dis week."

"UNCLE WILLIS ANDERSON"

REFERENCES

A. Coronado's Children--J. Frank Dobie, Pub. 1929, Austin, Tex.

B. Leon County News--Centerville, Texas--Thursday May 21, 1936.

C. Consultant--Uncle Willis Anderson, resident of Centerville, Tex, born April 15, 1844.

An interesting character at Centerville, Texas, is "Uncle Willis" Anderson, an ex-slave, born
April 15, 1844, 6 miles west of Centerville on the old McDaniels plantation near what is now
known as Hopewell Settlement. It is generally said that "Uncle Willis" is one of the oldest
living citizens in the County, black or white. He is referred to generally for information
concerning days gone by and for the history of that County, especially in the immediate vicinity
of Centerville.

"Uncle Willis" is an interesting figure. He may be found sitting on the porches of the stores
facing Federal Highway No. 75, nodding or conversing with small groups of white or colored
people that gather around him telling of the days gone by. He also likes to watch the busses
and automobiles that pass through the small town musing and commenting on the swiftness of
things today. Uncle Willis still cultivates a small patch five miles out from the town.

"Uncle Willis" is a tall dark, brown-skinned man having a large head covered with mixed gray
wooly hair. He has lost very few teeth considering his age. When sitting on the porches of
the stores the soles of his farm-shoes may be seen tied together with pieces of wire. He supports
himself with a cane made from the Elm tree. At present he wears a tall white Texas Centennial
hat which makes him appear more unique than ever.

"Uncle Willis'" memory is vivid. He is familiar with the older figures in the history of the
County. He tells tales of having travelled by oxen to West Texas for flour and being gone for
six months at a time. He remembers the Keechi and the Kickapoo Indians and also claims that
he can point out a tree where the Americans hung an Indian Chief. He says that he has plowed
up arrows, pots and flints on the Reubens Bains place and on the McDaniel farms. He can tell
of the early lawlessness in the County. His face lights up when he recalls how the Yankee soldiers
came through Centerville telling the slave owners to free their slaves. He also talks very
low when he mentions the name of Jeff Davis because he says, "Wha' man eavesdrops the niggers
houses in slavery time and if yer' sed' that Jeff Davis was a good man, they barbecued a hog
for you, but if yer' sed' that Abe Lincoln was a good man, yer' had to fight or go to the woods."

Among the most interesting tales told by "Uncle Willis" is the tale of the "Lead mine." "Uncle
Willis" says that some where along Boggy Creek near a large hickory tree and a red oak tree,
near Patrick's Lake, he and his master, Auss McDaniels, would dig lead out of the ground which
they used to make pistol and rifle balls for the old Mississippi rifles during slavery time.
Uncle Willis claims that they would dig slags of lead out of the ground some 12 and 15 inches
long, and others as large as a man's fist. They would carry this ore back to the big house
and melt it down to get the trash out of it, then they would pour it into molds and make rifle
balls and pistol balls from it. In this way they kept plenty of amunition on hand. In recent
years the land has changed ownership, and the present owners live in Dallas. Learning of the
tale of the "lead mine" on their property they went to Centerville in an attempt to locate
it and were referred to "Uncle Willis." Uncle Willis says they offered him two hundred dollars
if he could locate the mine. Being so sure that he knew its exact location, said that the $200
was his meat. However, Uncle Willis was unable to locate the spot where they dug the lead and
the mine remains a mystery.[C]

Recently a group of citizens of Leon County including W.D. Lacey, Joe McDaniel, Debbs Brown,
W.H. Hill and Judge Lacey cross questioned Uncle Willis about the lead mine. Judge Lacey did
the questioning while them others formed an audience. The conversation went as follows:

"Which way would you go when you went to the mine?" Judge Lacey asked.

"Out tow'hd Normangee."

"How long would it take you to get there?"

"Two or three hours."

"Was it on a creek?"

"Yessuh."

"But you cant go to it now?"

"Nosuh, I just can't recollect exactly where 'tis.[B]

J. Frank Dobie mentions many tales of lost lead mines throughout Texas in Coronado's Children,
a publication of the Texas Folk-Lore Society. Lead in the early days of the Republic and the
State was very valuable, as it was the source of protection from the Indians and also the means
of supplying food.[A]

420056

     MARY ARMSTRONG, 91, lives at 3326 Pierce Ave., Houston, Texas. She
     was born on a farm near St. Louis, Missouri, a slave of William
     Cleveland. Her father, Sam Adams, belonged to a "nigger trader,"
     who had a farm adjoining the Cleveland place.

"I's Aunt Mary, all right, but you all has to 'scuse me if I don't talk so good, 'cause I's
been feelin' poorly for a spell and I ain't so young no more. Law me, when I think back what
I used to do, and now it's all I can do to hobble 'round a little. Why, Miss Olivia, my mistress,
used to put a glass plumb full of water on my head and then have me waltz 'round the room,
and I'd dance so smoothlike, I don't spill nary drap.

"That was in St. Louis, where I's born. You see, my mamma belong to old William Cleveland and
old Polly Cleveland, and they was the meanest two white folks what ever lived, 'cause they
was allus beatin' on their slaves. I know, 'cause mamma told me, and I hears about it other
places, and besides, old Polly, she was a Polly devil if there ever was one, and she whipped
my little sister what was only nine months old and jes' a baby to death. She come and took
the diaper offen my little sister and whipped till the blood jes' ran--jes' 'cause she cry
like all babies do, and it kilt my sister. I never forgot that, but I sot some even with that
old Polly devil and it's this-a-way.

"You see, I's 'bout 10 year old and I belongs to Miss Olivia, what was that old Polly's daughter,
and one day old Polly devil comes to where Miss Olivia lives after she marries, and trys to
give me a lick out in the yard, and I picks up a rock 'bout as big as half your fist and hits
her right in the eye and busted the eyeball, and tells her that's for whippin' my baby sister
to death. You could hear her holler for five miles, but Miss Olivia, when I tells her, says,
'Well, I guess mamma has larnt her lesson at last.' But that old Polly was mean like her husban',
old Cleveland, till she die, and I hopes they is burnin' in torment now.

"I don't 'member 'bout the start of things so much, 'cept what Miss Olivia and my mamma, her
name was Siby, tells me. Course, it's powerful cold in winter times and the farms was lots
different from down here. They calls 'em plantations down here but up at St. Louis they was
jes' called farms, and that's what they was, 'cause we raises wheat and barley and rye and
oats and corn and fruit.

"The houses was builded with brick and heavy wood, too, 'cause it's cold up there, and we has
to wear the warm clothes and they's wove on the place, and we works at it in the evenin's.

"Old Cleveland takes a lot of his slaves what was in 'custom' and brings 'em to Texas to sell.
You know, he wasn't sposed to do that, 'cause when you's in 'custom', that's 'cause he borrowed
money on you, and you's not sposed to leave the place till he paid up. Course, old Cleveland
jes' tells the one he owed the money to, you had run off, or squirmed out some way, he was
that mean.

"Mamma say she was in one bunch and me in 'nother. Mamma had been put 'fore this with my papa,
Sam Adams, but that makes no diff'rence to Old Cleveland. He's so mean he never would sell
the man and woman and chillen to the same one. He'd sell the man here and the woman there and
if they's chillen, he'd sell them some place else. Oh, old Satan in torment couldn't be no
meaner than what he and Old Polly was to they slaves. He'd chain a nigger up to whip 'em and
rub salt and pepper on him, like he said, 'to season him up.' And when he'd sell a slave, he'd
grease their mouth all up to make it look like they'd been fed good and was strong and healthy.

"Well mamma say they hadn't no more'n got to Shreveport 'fore some law man cotch old Cleveland
and takes 'em all back to St. Louis. Then my little sister's born, the one old Polly devil
kilt, and I's 'bout four year old then.

"Miss Olivia takes a likin' to me and, though her papa and mama so mean, she's kind to everyone,
and they jes' love her. She marries to Mr. Will Adams what was a fine man, and has 'bout five
farms and 500 slaves, and he buys me for her from old Cleveland and pays him $2,500.00, and
gives him George Henry, a nigger, to boot. Lawsy, I's sho' happy to be with Miss Olivia and
away from old Cleveland and Old Polly, 'cause they kilt my little sister.

"We lives in St. Louis, on Chinquapin Hill, and I's housegirl, and when the babies starts to
come I nusses 'em and spins thread for clothes on the loom. I spins six cuts of thread a week,
but I has plenty of time for myself and that's where I larns to dance so good. Law, I sho'
jes' crazy 'bout dancin'. If I's settin' eatin' my victuals and hears a fiddle play, I gets
up and dances.

"Mr. Will and Miss Olivia sho' is good to me, and I never calls Mr. Will 'massa' neither, but
when they's company I calls him Mr. Will and 'round the house by ourselves I calls them 'pappy'
and 'mammy', 'cause they raises me up from the little girl. I hears old Cleveland done took
my mamma to Texas 'gain but I couldn't do nothin', 'cause Miss Olivia wouldn't have much truck
with her folks. Once in a while old Polly comes over, but Miss Olivia tells her not to touch
me or the others. Old Polly trys to buy me back from Miss Olivia, and if they had they'd kilt
me sho'. But Miss Olivia say, 'I'd wade in blood as deep as Hell 'fore I'd let you have Mary.'
That's jes' the very words she told 'em.

"Then I hears my papa is sold some place I don't know where. 'Course, I didn't know him so
well, jes' what mamma done told me, so that didn't worry me like mamma being took so far away.

"One day Mr. Will say, 'Mary, you want to go to the river and see the boat race?' Law me, I
never won't forget that. Where we live it ain't far to the Miss'sippi River and pretty soon
here they comes, the Natchez and the Eclipse, with smoke and fire jes' pourin' out of they
smokestacks. That old captain on the 'Clipse starts puttin' in bacon meat in the boiler and
the grease jes' comes out a-blazin' and it beat the Natchez to pieces.

"I stays with Miss Olivia till '63 when Mr. Will set us all free. I was 'bout 17 year old then
or more. I say I goin' find my mamma. Mr. Will fixes me up two papers, one 'bout a yard long
and the other some smaller, but both has big, gold seals what he says is the seal of the State
of Missouri. He gives me money and buys my fare ticket to Texas and tells me they is still
slave times down here and to put the papers in my bosom but to do whatever the white folks
tells me, even if they wants to sell me. But he say, 'Fore you gets off the block, jes' pull
out the papers, but jes' hold 'em up to let folks see and don't let 'em out of your hands,
and when they sees them they has to let you alone.'

"Miss Olivia cry and carry on and say be careful of myself 'cause it sho' rough in Texas. She
give me a big basket what had so much to eat in it I couldn't hardly heft it and 'nother with
clothes in it. They puts me in the back end a the boat where the big, old wheel what run the
boat was and I goes to New Orleans, and the captain puts me on 'nother boat and I comes to
Galveston, and that captain puts me on 'nother boat and I comes up this here Buffalo Bayou
to Houston.

"I looks 'round Houston, but not long. It sho' was a dumpy little place then and I gets the
stagecoach to Austin. It takes us two days to get there and I thinks my back busted sho' 'nough,
it was sich rough ridin'. Then I has trouble sho'. A man asks me where I goin' and says to
come 'long and he takes me to a Mr. Charley Crosby. They takes me to the block what they sells
slaves on. I gets right up like they tells me, 'cause I 'lects what Mr. Will done told me to
do, and they starts biddin' on me. And when they cried off and this Mr. Crosby comes up to
get me, I jes' pulled out my papers and helt 'em up high and when he sees 'em, he say, 'Let
me see them.' But I says, 'You jes' look at it up here,' and he squints up and say, 'This gal
am free and has papers,' and tells me he a legislature man and takes me and lets me stay with
his slaves. He is a good man.

"He tells me there's a slave refugee camp in Wharton County but I didn't have no money left,
but he pays me some for workin' and when the war's over I starts to hunt mamma 'gain, and finds
her in Wharton County near where Wharton is. Law me, talk 'bout cryin' and singin' and cryin'
some more, we sure done it. I stays with mamma till I gets married in 1871 to John Armstrong,
and then we all comes to Houston.

"I gets me a job nussin' for Dr. Rellaford and was all through the yellow fever epidemic. I
'lects in '75 people die jes' like sheep with the rots. I's seen folks with the fever jump
from their bed with death on 'em and grab other folks. The doctor saved lots of folks, white
and black, 'cause he sweat it out of 'em. He mixed up hot water and vinegar and mustard and
some else in it.

"But, law me, so much is gone out of my mind, 'cause I's 91 year old now and my mind jes' like
my legs, jes' kinda hobble 'round a bit.

420085

     STEARLIN ARNWINE, 94, was born a slave to Albertus Arnwine, near
     Jacksonville, Texas, who died when Stearlin was seven or eight. He
     was bought by John Moseley, of Rusk, Texas, who made Stearlin a
     houseboy, and was very kind to him. He now lives about six miles
     west of Jacksonville.

"I was bo'n 'fore de war, in 1853, right near this here town, on Gum Creek. My mammy belonged
to Massa Albertus Arnwine, and he wasn' ever married. He owned four women, my mammy, Ann, my
grandmother, Gracie, and my Aunt Winnie and Aunt Mary. He didn' own any nigger men, 'cept the
chillen of these women. Grandma lived in de house with Massa Arnwine and the rest of us lived
in cabins in de ya'd. My mammy come from Memphis but I don' know whar my pappy come from. He
was Ike Lane. I has three half brothers, and their names is Joe and Will and John Schot, and
two sisters called Polly and Rosie.

"Massa Arnwine died 'fore de war and he made a will and it gave all he owned to the women he
owned, and Jedge Jowell promised massa on his deathbed he would take us to de free country,
but he didn'. He took us to his place to work for him for 'bout two years and the women never
did get that 900 acres of land Massa Arnwine willed to'em. I don' know who got it, but they
didn'. I knows I still has a share in that land, but it takes money to git it in cou't.

"When war broke I fell into the han's of Massa John Moseley at Rusk. They brought the dogs
to roun' us up from the fiel's whar we was workin'. I was the only one of my fam'ly to go to
Massa John.

"I never did wo'k in the fiel's at Massa John's place. He said I mus' be his houseboy and houseboy
I was. Massa was sho' good to me and I did love to be with him and follow him 'roun'.

"The kitchen was out in de ya'd and I had to carry the victuals to the big dinin'-room. When
dinner was over, Massa John tuk a nap and I had to fan him, and Lawsy me, I'd git so sleepy.
I kin hear him now, for he'd wake up and say, 'Go get me a drink outta the northeast corner
of de well.'

"We had straw and grass beds, we put it in sacks on de groun' and slep' on de sacks. I don'
'member how much land Massa John had but it was a big place and he had lots of slaves. We chillun
had supper early in de evenin' and mostly cornbread and hawg meat and milk. We all ate from
a big pot. I larned to spin and weave and knit and made lots of socks.

"Massa John had two step-daughters, Miss Mollie and Miss Laura, and they wen' to school at
Rusk. It was my job to take 'em thar ev'ry Monday mornin' on horses and go back after 'em Friday
afternoon.

"I never earnt no money 'fore freedom come, but once my brother-in-law give me five dollars.
I was so proud of it I showed it to de ladies and one of 'em said, 'You don' need dat,' and
she give me two sticks of candy and tuk de money. But I didn' know any better then.

"I seed slaves for sale on de auction block. They sol' 'em 'cordin' to strengt' and muscles.
They was stripped to de wais'. I seed the women and little chillun cryin' and beggin' not to
be separated, but it didn' do no good. They had to go.

"The only chu'ch I knowed 'bout was when we'd git together in de night and have prayer meetin'
and singin.' We use' to go way out in de woods so de white folks wouldn' hear nothin'. Sometimes
we'd stay nearly all night on Saturday, 'cause we didn' have to work Sunday.

"'Bout the only thing we could play was stick hosses. I made miles and miles on the stick hosses.
After the War Massa John have his chillun a big roll of Confederate money and they give us
some of it to trade and buy stick hosses with.

"When Massa John tol' us we was free, he didn' seem to min', but Miss Em, she bawled and squalled,
say her prop'ty taken 'way from her. After dat, my mammy gathers us togedder and tuk us to
the Dr. Middleton place, out from Jacksonville. From thar to de Ragsdale place whar I's been
ever since.

"I wore my first pants when I was fourteen years ole, and they stung 'till I was mis'ble. The
cloth was store bought but mammy made the pants at home. It was what we called dog-hair cloth.
Mammy made my first shoes, we called 'em 'red rippers'.

420075

     SARAH ASHLEY, 93, was born in Mississippi. She recalls her
     experiences when sold on the block in New Orleans, and on a cotton
     plantation in Texas. She now lives at Goodrich, Texas.

"I ain't able to do nothin' no more. I's jus' plumb give out and I stays here by myself. My
daughter, Georgia Grime, she used to live with me but she's been dead four year.

"I was born in Miss'ippi and Massa Henry Thomas buy us and bring us here. He a spec'lator and
buys up lots of niggers and sells 'em. Us family was sep'rated. My two sisters and my papa
was sold to a man in Georgia. Den dey put me on a block and bid me off. Dat in New Orleans
and I scairt and cry, but dey put me up dere anyway. First dey takes me to Georgia and dey
didn't sell me for a long spell. Massa Thomas he travel round and buy and sell niggers. Us
stay in de spec'lators drove de long time.

"After 'while Massa Mose Davis come from Cold Spring, in Texas, and buys us. He was buyin'
up little chillen for he chillen. Dat 'bout four year befo' da first war. I was 19 year old
when de burst of freedom come in June and I git turn loose.

"I was workin' in de field den. Jus' befo' dat de old Massa he go off and buy more niggers.
He go east. He on a boat what git stove up and he die and never come back no more. Us never
see him no more.

"I used to have to pick cotton and sometime I pick 300 pound and tote it a mile to de cotton
house. Some pick 300 to 800 pound cotton and have to tote de bag de whole mile to de gin. Iffen
dey didn't do dey work dey git whip till dey have blister on 'em. Den iffen dey didn't do it,
de man on a hoss goes down de rows and whip with a paddle make with holes in it and bus' de
blisters. I never git whip, 'cause I allus git my 300 pound. Us have to go early to do dat,
when de horn goes early, befo' daylight. Us have to take de victuals in de bucket to de field.

"Massa have de log house and us live in little houses, strowed in long rows. Dere wasn't no
meetin's 'lowed in de quarters and iffen dey have prayer meetin' de boss man whip dem. Sometime
us run off at night and go to camp meetin'. I takes de white chillen to church sometime, but
dey couldn't larn me to sing no songs 'cause I didn' have no spirit.

"Us never got 'nough to eat, so us keeps stealin' stuff. Us has to. Dey give us de peck of
meal to last de week and two, three pound bacon in chunk. Us never have flour or sugar, jus'
cornmeal and de meat and 'taters. De niggers has de big box under de fireplace, where dey kep'
all de pig and chickens what dey steal, down in salt.

"I seed a man run away and de white men got de dogs and dey kotch him and put him in de front
room and he jump through de big window and break de glass all up. Dey sho' whips him when dey
kotches him.

"De way dey whip de niggers was to strip 'em off naked and whip 'em till dey make blisters
and bus' de blisters. Den dey take de salt and red pepper and put in de wounds. After dey wash
and grease dem and put somethin' on dem, to keep dem from bleed to death.

"When de boss man told us freedom was come he didn't like it, but he give all us de bale of
cotton and some corn. He ask us to stay and he'p with de crop but we'uns so glad to git 'way
dat nobody stays. I got 'bout fifty dollars for de cotton and den I lends it to a nigger what
never pays me back yit. Den I got no place to go, so I cooks for a white man name' Dick Cole.
He sposen give me $5.00 de month but he never paid me no money. He'd give me eats and clothes,
'cause he has de little store.

"Now, I's all alone and thinks of dem old times what was so bad, and I's ready for de Lawd
to call me."

420280

     AGATHA BABINO, born a slave of Ogis Guidry, near Carenco,
     Louisiana, now lives in a cottage on the property of the Blessed
     Sacrament Church, in Beaumont, Texas. She says she is at least
     eighty-seven and probably much older.

"Old Marse was Ogis Guidry. Old Miss was Laurentine. Dey had four chillen, Placid, Alphonse
and Mary and Alexandrine, and live in a big, one-story house with a gallery and brick pillars.
Dey had a big place. I 'spect a mile 'cross it, and fifty slaves.

"My mama name was Clarice Richard. She come from South Carolina. Papa was Dick Richard. He
come from North Carolina. He was slave of old Placid Guilbeau. He live near Old Marse. My brothers
was Joe and Nicholas and Oui and Albert and Maurice, and sisters was Maud and Celestine and
Pauline.

"Us slaves lived in shabby houses. Dey builded of logs and have dirt floor. We have a four
foot bench. We pull it to a table and set on it. De bed a platform with planks and moss.

"We had Sunday off. Christmas was off, too. Dey give us chicken and flour den. But most holidays
de white folks has company. Dat mean more work for us.

"Old Marse bad. He beat us till we bleed. He rub salt and pepper in. One time I sweep de yard.
Young miss come home from college. She slap my face. She want to beat me. Mama say to beat
her, so dey did. She took de beatin' for me.

"My aunt run off 'cause dey beat her so much. Dey brung her back and beat her some more.

"We have dance outdoors sometime. Somebody play fiddle and banjo. We dance de reel and quadrille
and buck dance. De men dance dat. If we go to dance on 'nother plantation we have to have pass.
De patterrollers come and make us show de slip. If dey ain't no slip, we git beat.

"I see plenty sojers. Dey fight at Pines and we hear ball go 'zing--zing.' Young marse have
blue coat. He put it on and climb a tree to see. De sojers come and think he a Yankee. Dey
take his gun. Dey turn him loose when dey find out he ain't no Yankee.

"When de real Yankees come dey take corn and gooses and hosses. Dey don't ask for nothin'.
Dey take what dey wants.

"Some masters have chillen by slaves. Some sold dere own chillen. Some sot dem free.

"When freedom come we have to sign up to work for money for a year. We couldn't go work for
nobody else. After de year some stays, but not long.

"De Ku Klux kill niggers. Dey come to take my uncle. He open de door. Dey don't take him but
tell him to vote Democrat next day or dey will. Dey kilt some niggers what wouldn't vote Democrat.

"Dey kill my old uncle Davis. He won't vote Democrat. Dey shoot him. Den dey stand him up and
let him fall down. Dey tie him by de feet. Dey drag him through de bresh. Dey dare his wife to cry.

"When I thirty I marry Tesisfor Babino. Pere Abadie marry us at Grand Coteau. We have dinner
with wine. Den come big dance. We have twelve chillen. We works in de field in Opelousas. We
come here twenty-five year ago. He die in 1917. Dey let's me live here. It nice to be near
de church. I can go to prayers when I wants to.

420164

     MRS. JOHN BARCLAY (nee Sarah Sanders) Brownwood, Texas was born in
     Komo, Mississippi, September 1, 1853. She was born a slave at the
     North Slades' place. Mr. and Mrs. North Slade were the only owners
     she ever had. She served as nurse-maid for her marster's children
     and did general housework. She, with her mother and father and
     family stayed with the Slades until the end of the year after the
     Civil War. They then moved to themselves, hiring out to "White
     Folks."

"My marster and mistress was good to all de slaves dat worked for dem. But our over-seer, Jimmy
Shearer, was sho' mean. One day he done git mad at me for some little somethin' and when I
take de ashes to de garden he catches me and churns me up and down on de groun'. One day he
got mad at my brother and kicked him end over end, jes' like a stick of wood. He would whip
us 'til we was raw and then put pepper and salt in de sores. If he thought we was too slow
in doin' anything he would kick us off de groun' and churn us up and down. Our punishment depended
on de mood of de over-seer. I never did see no slaves sold. When we was sick dey give us medicine
out of drug stores. De over-seer would git some coarse cotton cloth to make our work clothes
out of and den he would make dem so narrow we couldn' hardly' walk.

"There was 1800 acres in Marster Slade's plantation, we got up at 5:00 o'clock in de mornin'
and de field workers would quit after sun-down. We didn' have no jails for slaves. We went
to church with de white folks and there was a place in de back of de church for us to sit.

"I was jes' a child den and us chilluns would gather in de back yard and sing songs and play
games and dance jigs. Song I 'member most is 'The Day is Past and Gone.'

"One time marster found out the over-seer was so mean to me, so he discharged him and released
me from duty for awhile.

"We never did wear shoes through de week but on Sunday we would dress up in our white cotton
dresses and put on shoes.

"We wasn't taught to read or write. Our owner didn't think anything about it. We had to work
if there was work to be done. When we got caught up den we could have time off. If any of us
got sick our mistress would 'tend to us herself. If she thought we was sick enough she would
call de white doctor.

"When de marster done told us we was free we jumped up and down and slapped our hands and shouted
'Glory to God!' Lord, child dat was one happy bunch of niggers. Awhile after dat some of de
slaves told marster dey wanted to stay on with him like dey had been but he told 'em no dey
couldn't, 'cause dey was free. He said he could use some of 'em but dey would have to buy what
dey got and he would have to pay 'em like men.

"When I was 'bout 18 years old I married John Barclay. I's had ten chillun and four gran'-chillun
and now I lives by myself."

420128

     JOHN BARKER, age 84, Houston.

     5 photographs marked Green Cumby have been assigned to this
     manuscript--the 'Green Cumby' photos are attached to the proper
     manuscript and the five referred to above are probably pictures of
     John Barker.

     JOHN BARKER, age 84, was born near Cincinnati, Ohio, the property
     of the Barker family, who moved to Missouri and later to Texas. He
     and his wife live in a neat cottage in Houston, Texas.

"I was born a slave. I'm a Malagasser (Madagascar) nigger. I 'member all 'bout dem times, even
up in Ohio, though de Barkers brought me to Texas later on. My mother and father was call Goodman,
but dey died when I was little and Missy Barker raised me on de plantation down near Houston.
Dey was plenty of work and plenty of room.

"I 'member my grandma and grandpa. In dem days de horned toads runs over de world and my grandpa
would gather 'em and lay 'em in de fireplace till dey dried and roll 'em with bottles till
dey like ashes and den rub it on de shoe bottoms. You see, when dey wants to run away, dat
stuff don't stick all on de shoes, it stick to de track. Den dey carries some of dat powder
and throws it as far as dey could jump and den jump over it, and do dat again till dey use
all de powder. Dat throwed de common hounds off de trail altogether. But dey have de bloodhounds,
hell hounds, we calls 'em, and dey could pick up dat trail. Dey run my grandpa over 100 mile
and three or four days and nights and found him under a bridge. What dey put on him was enough!
I seen 'em whip runaway niggers till de blood run down dere backs and den put salt in de places.

"I 'spect dere was 'bout 40 or 50 acres in de plantation. Dey worked and worked and didn't
have no dances or church. Dances nothin!

"My massa and missus house was nice, but it was a log house. They had big fireplaces what took
great big chunks of wood and kep' fire all night. We lives in de back in a little bitty house
like a chicken house. We makes beds out of posts and slats across 'em and fills tow sacks with
shucks in 'em for mattress and pillows.

"I seed slaves sold and they was yoked like steers and sold by pairs sometimes. Dey wasn't
'lowed to marry, 'cause they could be sold and it wasn't no use, but you could live with 'em.

"We used to eat possums and dese old-fashioned coons and ducks. Sometimes we'd eat goats, too.
We has plenty cornmeal and 'lasses and we gets milk sometimes, but we has no fine food, 'cept
on Christmas, we gits some cake, maybe.

"My grandma says one day dat we all is free, but we stayed with Massa Barker quite a while.
Dey pays us for workin' but it ain't much pay, 'cause de war done took dere money and all.
But they was good to us, so we stayed.

"I was 'bout 20 when I marries de fust time. It was a big blow-out and I was scared de whole
time. First time I ever tackled marryin'. Dey had a big paper sack of rice and throwed it all
over her and I, enough rice to last three or four days, throwed away jus' for nothin'. I had
on a black, alpaca suit with frock tail coat and, if I ain't mistaken, a right white shirt.
My wife have a great train on her dress and one dem things you call a wreath. I wore de loudest
shoes we could find, what you call patent leather.

"Dis here my third wife. We marries in Eagle Pass and comes up to de Seminole Reservation and
works for de army till we goes to work for de Pattersons, and we been here 23 years now.

"Ghosties? I was takin' care of a white man when he died and I seed something 'bout three feet
high and black. I reckon I must have fainted 'cause they has de doctor for me. And on dark
nights I seed ghosties what has no head. Dey looks like dey wild and dey is all in different
performance. When I goin' down de road and feel a hot steam and look over my shoulder I can
see 'em plain as you standin' dere. I seed 'em when my wife was with me, but she can't see
'em, 'cause some people ain't gifted to see 'em.

420133

     JOE BARNES, 89, was born in Tyler Co., Texas, on Jim Sapp's
     plantation. He is very feeble, but keeps his great grandchildren in
     line while their mother works. They live in Beaumont. Joe is tall,
     slight, and has gray hair and a stubby gray mustache. In his kind,
     gentle voice he relates his experiences in slavery days.

"Dey calls me Paul Barnes, but my name ain't Paul, it am Joe. My massa was Jim Sapp, up here
in Tyler County, and missus' name was Ann. De Sapp place was big and dey raise' a sight of
cotton and corn. Old massa Jim he have 'bout 25 or 30 slaves.

"My mammy's name was Artimisi, but dey call her Emily, and pa's name Jerry Wooten, 'cause he
live on de Wooten place. My steppa named Barnes and I taken dat name. My parents, dey have
de broomstick weddin'.

"When I's a chile us play marbles and run rabbits and ride de stick hoss and de like. When
I gits more bigger, us play ball, sort of like baseball. One time my brudder go git de hosses
and dey lots of rain and de creek swoll up high. De water so fast it wash him off he hoss and
I ain't seed him since. Dey never find de body. He's 'bout ten year old den.

"Massa live in de big box house and de quarters am in a row in de back. Some of dem box and
some of dem log. Dey have two rooms. Every day de big, old cowhorn blow for dinner and us have
de little tin cup what us git potlicker in and meat and cornbread and salt bacon. Us gits greens,
too. De chimneys 'bout four feet wide and dey cooks everything in de fireplace. Dey have pots
and ovens and put fire below and 'bove 'em.

"I used to wear what I calls a one-button cutaway. It was jis' a shirt make out of homespun
with pleats down front. Dey make dey own cloth dem time.

"Massa marry de folks in de broomstick style. Us don' have de party but sometime us sing and
play games, like de round dance.

"Dey give de little ones bacon to suck and tie de string to de bacon and de other round dey
wrists, so dey won't swallow or lose de bacon. For de little bits of ones dey rings de bell
for dey mommers to come from de field and nuss 'em.

"After freedom come us stay a year and den move to Beaumont and us work in de sawmill for Mr.
Jim Long. De fust money I git I give to my mammy. Me and mammy and stepdaddy stays in Beaumont
two years den moves to Tyler and plants de crop. But de next year us move back to Beaumont
on de Langham place and mammy work for de Longs till she die.

"When I git marry I marry Dicey Allen and she die and I never marry no more. I worked in sawmillin'
and on de log pond and allus gits by pretty good. I ain't done no work much de last ten year,
I's too old.

"I sort a looks after my grandchillen and I sho' loves dem. I sits 'round and hurts all de
time. It am rheumatism in de feets, I reckon. I got six grandchillen and three great-grandchillen
and dat one you hears cryin', dat de baby I's raisin' in dere.

"I's feared I didn't tell you so much 'bout things way back, but da truth am, I can't 'member
like I used to.

420166

     ARMSTEAD BARRETT, born in 1847, was a slave of Stafford Barrett,
     who lived in Huntsville, Texas. He is the husband of Harriett
     Barrett. Armstead has a very poor memory and can tell little about
     early days. He and Harriet receive old age pensions.

"I's really owned by Massa Stafford Barrett, but my mammy 'longed to Massa Ben Walker and was
'lowed to keep me with her. So after we'uns got free, I lives with my daddy and mammy and goes
by de name of Barrett. Daddy's name was Henry Barrett and he's brung to Texas from Richmond,
in Virginny, and mammy come from Kentucky. Us all lived in Huntsville. I waited on Miss Ann
and mammy was cook.

"Old massa have doctor for us when us sick. We's too val'ble. Jus' like to de fat beef, massa
am good to us. Massa go to other states and git men and women and chile slaves and bring dem
back to sell, 'cause he spec'lator. He make dem wash up good and den sell dem.

"Mos' time we'uns went naked. Jus' have on one shirt or no shirt a-tall.

"I know when peace 'clared dey all shoutin'. One woman hollerin' and a white man with de high-steppin'
hoss ride clost to her and I see him git out and open he knife and cut her wide 'cross de stomach.
Den he put he hat inside he shirt and rid off like lightnin'. De woman put in wagon and I never
heered no more 'bout her.

"I didn't git nothin' when us freed. Only some cast-off clothes. Long time after I rents de
place on halves and farms most my life. Now I's too old to work and gits a pension to live on.

"I seems to think us have more freedom when us slaves, 'cause we have no 'sponsibility for
sickness den. We have to take care all dat now and de white man, he beats de nigger out what
he makes. Back in de old days, de white men am hones'. All the nigger knowed was hard work.
I think de cullud folks ought to be 'lowed more privileges in votin' now, 'cause dey have de
same 'sponsibility as white men and day more and more educated and brighter and brighter.

"I think our young folks pretty sorry. They wont do right, but I 'lieve iffen dey could git
fair wages dey'd do better. Dey git beat out of what dey does, anyway.

"I 'member a owner had some slaves and de overseer had it in for two of dem. He'd whip dem
near every day and dey does all could be did to please him. So one day he come to de field
and calls one dem slaves and dat slave draps he hoe and goes over and grabs dat overseer. Den
de other slave cut dat overseer's head right slap off and throwed it down one of de rows. De
owner he fools 'round and sells dem two slaves for $800.00 each and dat all de punishment dem
two slaves ever got.

420167

     HARRIET BARRETT, 86, was born in Walker Co., Texas, in 1851, a
     slave of Steve Glass. She now lives in Palestine, Texas.

"Massa Steve Glass, he own my pappy and mammy and me, until the war freed us. Pappy's borned
in Africy and mammy in Virginy, and brung to Texas 'fore de war, and I's borned in Texas in
1851. I's heered my grandpa was wild and dey didn't know 'bout marryin' in Africy. My brother
name Steve Glass and I dunno iffen I had sisters or not.

"Dey put me to cookin' when I's a li'l kid and people says now dat Aunt Harriet am de bes'
cook in Madisonville. Massa have great big garden and plenty to eat. I's cook big skillet plumb
full corn at de time and us all have plenty meat. Massa, he step out and kill big deer and
put in de great big pot and cook it. Then us have cornbread and syrup.

"Us have log quarters with stick posts for bed and deerskin stretch over it. Den us pull moss
and throw over dat. I have de good massa, bless he soul. Missy, she plumb good. She sick all
de time and dey never have white chillen. Dey live in big, log house, four rooms in it and
de great hall both ways through it.

"Massa, he have big bunch slaves and work dem long as dey could see and den lock 'em up in
de quarters at night to keep 'em from runnin' off. De patterrollers come and go through de
quarters to see if all de niggers dere. Dey walk right over us when us sleeps.

"Some slave run off, gwine to de north, and massa he cotch him and give him thirty-nine licks
with rawhide and lock dem up at night, too, and keep chain on him in daytime. I'll never forgit
dem. Massa 'low us have holiday Saturday night and go to nigger dance if it on 'nother plantation.
Boy, oh boy, de tin pan beatin' and de banjo pickin' and de dance all night long.

"When de war start, white missy die, and massa have de preacher. She was white angel. Den massa
marry Missy Alice Long and she de bad woman with us niggers. She hard on us, not like old missy.

"I larned lots of remedies for sick people. Charcoal and onions and honey for de li'l baby
am good, and camphor for de chills and fever and teeth cuttin'. I's boil red oak bark and make
tea for fever and make cactus weed root tea for fever and chills and colic. De best remedy
for chills and fever am to git rabbit foot tie on string 'round de neck.

"Massa, he carry me to war with him, 'cause I's de good cook. In dat New Orleans battle he
wounded and guns roarin' everywhere. Dey brung massa in and I's jus' as white as he am den.
Dem Yankees done shoot de roof off de house. I nuss de sick and wounded clean through de war
and seed dem dyin' on every side of me.

"I's most scared to death when de war end. Us still in New Orleans and all de shoutin' dat
took place 'cause us free! Dey crowds on de streets and was in a stir jus' as thick as flies
on de dog. Massa say I's free as him, but iffen I wants to cook for him and missy I gits $2.50
de month, so I cooks for him till I marries Armstead Barrett, and then us farm for de livin'.
Us have big church weddin' and I has white loyal dress and black brogan shoes. Us been married
51 years now.

420150

     JOHN BATES, 84, was born in Little Rock, Arkansas, a slave of Mock
     Bateman. When still very young, John moved with his mother, a slave
     of Harry Hogan, to Limestone Co., Texas. John now lives in
     Corsicana, supported by his children and an old age pension.

"My pappy was Ike Bateman, 'cause his massa's name am Mock Bateman, and mammy's name was Francis.
They come from Tennessee and I had four brothers and six sisters. We jes' left de last part
of de name off and call it Bates and dat's how I got my name. Mammy 'longed to Massa Harry
Hogan and while I's small us move to Texas, to Limestone County, and I don't 'member much 'bout
pappy, 'cause I ain't never seed him since.

"Massa Hogan was a purty good sort of fellow, but us went hongry de fust winter in Texas. He
lived in de big log house with de hallway clean through and a gallery clean 'cross de front.
De chimney was big 'nough to burn logs in and it sho' throwed out de heat. It was a good, big
place and young massa come out early and holler for us to git up and be in de field.

"Missy Hogan was de good woman and try her dead level best to teach me to read and write, but
my head jes' too thick, I jes' couldn't larn. My Uncle Ben he could read de Bible and he allus
tell us some day us be free and Massa Harry laugh, haw, haw, haw, and he say, 'Hell, no, yous
never be free, yous ain't got sense 'nough to make de livin' if yous was free.' Den he takes
de Bible 'way from Uncle Ben and say it put de bad ideas in he head, but Uncle gits 'nother
Bible and hides it and massa never finds it out.

"We'uns goes to de big baptisin' one time and it's at de big sawmill tank and 50 is baptise'
and I's in dat bunch myself. But dey didn't have no funerals for de slaves, but jes' bury dem
like a cow or a hoss, jes' dig de hole and roll 'em in it and cover 'em up.

"War come and durin' dem times jes' like today nearly everybody knows what gwine on, news travels
purty fast, and iffen de slaves couldn't git it with de pass dey slips out after dark and go
in another plantation by de back way. Course, iffen dem patterrollers cotch dem it jus' too
bad and dey gits whip.

"When de news comes in dat us free, Massa Harry never call us up like everybody else did the
slaves, us has to go up and ask him 'bout it. He come out on de front gallery and says we is
free and turns 'round and goes in de house without 'nother word. We all sho' feels sorry for
him the way he acts and hates to leave him, but we wants to go. We knowed he wasn't able to
give us nothin' so begins to scatter and 'bout ten or fifteen days Massa Harry dies. I think
he jes' grieve himself to death, all he trouble comin' on him to once.

"Us worked on diff'rent farms till I marries and my fust wife am Emma Williams and a cullud
preacher marries us at her house. Us picked cotton after dat and den I rents a place on de
halvers for five year and after sev'ral years I buys eighty acres of land. Fin'ly us done paid
dat out and done some repairs and den us sep'rate after livin' twenty-three year together.
So I gives dat place to her and de six chillen and I walks out ready to start all over 'gain.

"Then I meets Sarah Jones and us marries, but she gives me de divorcement. All dis time I works
on a farm for de day wages, den I rents 'nother farm on de halvers on de black land and stays
dere sev'ral year. Fin'ly I gits de job workin' at de cotton oil mill in Corsicana and stays
at dat job till dey says I's too old. I done buy dis li'l home here and now has a place to
live. Sarah done come back to me and us has seven chillen. One of de boys works at de cotton
oil mill and two works at de compress right here in Corsicana and one works at de beer place
in Dallas.

"Us raises a li'l on dese two lots and de chillen brings some from de farm, I mean my fust
wife's chillen, and with de pension check us manage to live a li'l longer. Us boys pays de
taxes and de insurance for us.

420306

     HARRISON BECKETT, born a slave of I.D. Thomas of San Augustine,
     Texas, now lives in Beaumont. A great-grandson climbed into
     Harrison's lap during the interview, and his genial face lit up
     with a smile. He chuckled as he told of his own boyhood days, and
     appeared to enjoy reminiscing. At times he uses big words, some of
     his own coining.

"I's 'mong de culls now, like a hoss what am too old. I's purty small yit when 'mancipation
comes and didn't have no hard work. Old Massa have me and de other li'l niggers keep de stock
out de fields. Us li'l boogers have to run and keep de cows out de corn and de cotton patch.
Dat ought to been 'nough to keep us out of debbilment.

"It come to pass my mammy work in de field. Her name Cynthia Thomas and daddy's name Isaac
Thomas. But after freedom he goes back to Florida and find out he people and git he real name,
and dat am Beckett. Dat 'bout ten years after 'mancipation he go back to he old home in Florida.
Mammy's people was de Polkses, in Georgia. Mammy come in from de field at nine or ten o'clock
at night and she be all wore out and too tired to cook lots of times. But she have to git some
food for us. We all had a tin pan and git round de table and dat like a feast. But lots of
times she's so tired she go to bed without eatin' nothin' herself.

"My sisters was Ellen and Sani and Georgy-Ann and Cindy and Sidi-Ann. Dey's all big 'nough
to work in de field. My brudders name Matthew and Ed and Henry and Harry, what am me, and de
oldes' one am General Thomas.

"Dey more'n a hundred head of black folks on Massa Thomas' two farms, and 'bout a hundred fifty
acres in each farm. One de farms in iron ore, what am red land, and de other in gray land,
half sand and half black dirt.

"Us slaves live in pole houses and some in split log houses, with two rooms, one for to sleep
in and one for to cook in. Day ain't no glass windows, jus' holes in de walls. Dere was jack
beds to sleep on, made out of poles. Dey has four legs and ain't nail to de walls.

"Old Massa he care for he hands purty well, considerin' everything. In ginnin' time he 'low
de women to pick up cotton from de ground and make mattresses and quilts. He make some cloth
and buy some. A woman weave all de time and when de shickle jump out on de floor I picks it
up. I used to could knit socks and I was jes' a li'l boy then, but I keep everything in 'membrance.

"Dey have some school and de chillen larnt readin' and writin', and manners and behaviour,
too. Sometime dey git de broke-down white man to be teacher. But us didn't know much and it
taken ten years or more after freedom to git de black men de qualification way he could handle
things.

"One time us boys git some watermillions out in de bresh and hit 'em or drap 'em to break 'em
open. Dere come massa and cotch us not workin', but eatin' he watermillions. He tell my daddy
to whip me. But lots of times when us sposed to mind de calves, us am out eatin' watermillions
in de bresh. Den de calves git out and massa see dem run and cotch us.

"Old massa was kind and good, though. He have partiality 'bout him, and wouldn't whip nobody
without de cause. He whip with de long, keen switch and it didn't bruise de back, but sho'
did sting. When he git real mad, he pull up you shirt and whip on de bare hide. One time he
whippin' me and I busts de button off my shirt what he holdin' on to, and runs away. I tries
to outrun him, and dat tickle him. I sho' give de ground fits with my feets. But dem whippin's
done me good. Dey break me up from thievin' and make de man of me.

"De way dey dress us li'l nigger boys den, dey give us a shirt what come way down 'tween de
knees and ankles. When de weather am too cold, dey sometimes give us pants.

"De white preachers come round and preach. Dey have de tabernacle like a arbor and cullud folks
come from all round to hear de Gospel 'spounded. Most every farm have de cullud man larnin'
to preach. I used to 'long to de Methodists but now I 'longs to de Church of Christ.

"Massa Thomas, he de wholesale merchant and git kilt in New Orleans. A big box of freight goods
fall on him, a box 'bout a yard square on de end and six yards long. He's carryin' back some
good for to make exchangement and dey pullin' up de box with pulley and rope and it fall on
him. De New Orleans folks say it am de accidentment, but de rest say de rope am cut. One of
massa's old friends was Lawyer Brooks. He used to firmanize de word.

"Massa have two boys, Mr. Jimmie and Li'l Ide and dey both goes to de war. Li'l Ide, he go
up in Arkansas and dey say when dat first cannon busts at Li'l Rock, he starts runnin' and
never stops till he gits back home. I don't see how he could do dat, 'cause Li'l Rock am way
far off, but dat what dey say. Den de men comes to git 'serters and dey gits Li'l Ide and takes
him back. Mr. Jimmie, he didn't break de ranks. He stood he ground.

"Mammy and dem tell me when war am over de boss and he wife, dey calls de slaves up in de bunch
and tells 'em, 'You's free as I is. Keep on or quit, if you wants. You don't have to stay no
further, you's free today.' Dat near June 19th, and all of 'em stays. Massa say, 'Go 'head
and finish de crop and I feed you and pay you.' Dey all knowed when he kilt de hawgs us git
plenty of meat. Dat young massa say all dat, 'cause old massa done git kilt.

"It's at Panola County where I first hears of de Klux. Dey call dem White Caps den. Dey move
over in Panola County and ranges at de place call Big Creek Merval by McFaddin Creek. Dey's
purty rough. De landowners tell dey niggers not to kill de White Caps but to scare dem 'way.
At night dey come knock and if you don't open it dey pry it open and run you out in de field.
Dey run de niggers from Merryville round Longview. Dey some good men in de Klux and some bad
men. But us work hard and go home and dey ain't bother us none.

"Dey used to be a nigger round dere, call Bandy Joe. He git kilt at Nacogdoches fin'ly. He
could turn into anything. De jedge of he parish was Massa Lee and he say dey ought let Bandy
Joe live, so dey could larn he art. Dey done try cotch him de long time, and maybe be holdin'
him and first thing they know he gone and dey left holdin' he coat. Dey shoot at him and not
hurt him. He tell he wife dey ain't no kind bullet can hurt him but de silver bullet.

"Dat Bandy Joe, he say he a spirit and a human both. Iffen he didn't want you to see him you
jus' couldn't see him. Lots of folks liked him. De jedge say he wish he could'a been brung
to town, so he could 'zamine him 'bout he gifts. De jedge knowed Bandy Joe could dis'pear jus'
like nothin', and he like to hear he quotation how he git out he skin. I'd like to know dat myself.

"I 'magines I seed ghosties two, three times. I used to range round at nighttime. I rides through
a old slavery field and de folks tell me, 'Harry, you better be careful gwine 'cross dat old
field. They's things dere what makes mules run 'way. One night it am late and my mule run 'way.
I make my mind I go back and see what he run from and somethin' am by de fence like de bear
stand up straight. It stand dere 'bout fifteen minutes while I draws my best 'pinion of it.
I didn't get any nearer dan to see it. A man down de road tell me de place am hanted and he
dunno how many wagons and mules git pull by dat thing at dat place.

"One time I's livin' 'nother place and it am 'twixt sundown and dusk. I had a li'l boy 'hind
me and I seed a big sow with no head comin' over de fence. My ma, she allus say what I see
might be 'magination and to turn my head and look 'gain and I does dat. But it still dere.
Den I seed a hoss goin' down de road and he drag a chain, and cross de bridge and turn down
de side road. But when I git to de side road I ain't seed no hoss or nothin'. I didn't say
nothin' to de li'l boy 'hind me on de mule till I gits most home, den asks him did he see anythin'.
He say no. I wouldn't tell him 'fore dat, 'cause I 'fraid he light out and outrun me and I
didn't want to be by myself with dem things. When I gits home and tell everybody, dey say dat
a man name McCoy, what was kilt dere and I seed he spirit.

"I's 'bout twenty-one when I marries Mandy Green. Us has twelve chillen, and a world of grandchillen.
I travels all over Louisiana and Texas in my time, and come here three year ago. My son he
work in de box fact'ry here, and he git a bodily injurement while he workin' and die, and I
come here to de burial and I been here ever since.

420269

     FRANK BELL, 86, was a slave of Johnson Bell, who ran a saloon in
     New Orleans. Frank lives in Madisonville, Texas.

"I was owned by Johnson Bell and born in New Orleans, in Louisiana. 'Cordin' to the bill of
sale, I'm eighty-six years old, and my master was a Frenchman and was real mean to me. He run
saloon and kept bad women. I don't know nothing 'bout my folks, if I even had any, 'cept mama.
They done tell me she was a bad woman and a French Creole.

"I worked 'round master's saloon, kep' everything cleaned up after they'd have all night drinkin'
parties, men and women. I earned nickels to tip off where to go, so's they could sow wild oats.
I buried the nickels under rocks. If master done cotch me with money, he'd take it and beat
me nearly to death. All I had to eat was old stuff those people left, all scraps what was left.

"One time some bad men come to master's and gits in a shootin' scrape and they was two men
kilt. I sho' did run. But master cotch me and make me take them men to the river and tie a
weight on them, so they'd sink and the law wouldn't git him.

"The clothes I wore was some master's old ones. They allus had holes in them. Master he stay
drunk nearly all time and was mean to his slave. I'm the only one he had, and didn't cost him
nothing. He have bill of sale made, 'cause the law say he done stole me when I'm small child.
Master kept me in chains sometimes. He shot several men.

"I didn't have no quarters but stays 'round the place and throw old sack down and lay there
and sleep. I'm 'fraid to run, 'cause master say he'd hunt me and kill nigger.

"When I's 'bout seventeen I marries a gal while master on drunk spell. Master he run her off,
and I slips off at night to see her, but he finds it out. He takes a big, long knife and cuts
her head plumb off, and ties a great, heavy weight to her and makes me throw her in the river.
Then he puts me in chains and every night he come give me a whippin', for long time.

"When war come, master swear he not gwine fight, but the Yankees they captures New Orleans
and throws master in a pen and guards him. He gets a chance and 'scapes.

"When war am over he won't free me, says I'm valuable to him in his trade. He say, 'Nigger,
you's suppose to be free but I'll pay you a dollar a week and iffen you runs off I'll kill
you.' So he makes me do like befo' the war, but give me 'bout a dollar a month, 'stead week.

"He say I cost more'n I'm worth, but he won't let me go. Times I don't know why I didn't die
befo' I'm growed, sleepin' on the ground, winter and summer, rain and snow. But not much snow
there.

"Master helt me long years after the war. If anybody git after him, he told them I stay 'cause
I wants to stay, but told me if I left he'd kill him 'nother nigger. I stayed till he gits
in a drunk brawl one night with men and women and they gits to shootin' and some kilt. Master
got kilt. Then I'm left to live or die, so I wanders from place to place. I nearly starved
to death befo' I'd leave New Orleans, 'cause I couldn't think master am dead and I'm 'fraid.
Finally I gits up nerve to leave town, and stays the first night in white man's barn. I never
slep'. Every time I hears something, I jumps up and master be standin' there, lookin' at me,
but soon's I git up he'd leave. Next night I slep' out in a hay field, and master he git right
top of a tree and start hollerin at me. I never stays in that place. I gits gone from that
place. I gits back to town fast as my legs carry me.

"Then I gits locked up in jail. I don't know what for, never did know. One the men says to
me to come with him and takes me to the woods and gives me an ax. I cuts rails till I nearly
falls, all with chain locked 'round feet, so I couldn't run off. He turns me loose and I wanders
'gain. Never had a home. Works for men long 'nough to git fifty, sixty cents, then starts roamin'
'gain, like a stray dog like.

"After long time I marries Feline Graham. Then I has a home and we has a white preacher marry
us. We has one boy and he farms and I lives with him. I worked at sawmill and farms all my
life, but never could make much money.

"You know, the nigger was wild till the white man made what he has out of the nigger. He done
ed'cate them real smart.

420193

     Aunt VIRGINIA BELL, 1205 Ruthven St., Houston, was born a slave
     near Opelousas, Louisiana, on the plantation of Thomas Lewis.
     Although she remembers being told she was born on Christmas Day,
     she does not know the year, but says she guesses she is about 88
     years old.

"Well, suh, the fus' question you ask me, 'bout how old I is, I don' know 'zactly. You see
it ain't like things is today. The young folks can tell you their 'zact age and everything,
but in those days we didn' pay much 'tention to such things. But I knows I was bo'n in slavery
times and my pappy tol' me I was bo'n on a Christmas Day, but didn' 'member jus' what year.

"We was owned by Massa Lewis. Thomas Lewis was his name, and he was a United States lawyer.
I ain't gwineter talk 'gainst my white folks like some cullud folks do, 'cause Massa Lewis
was a mighty fine man and so was Miss Mary, and they treated us mighty good.

"Massa had a big plantation near Opelousas and I was bo'n there. I 'member the neighbor folks
used to bring their cotton to the gin on his farm for ginnin' and balin'. My mother's name
was Della. That was all, jus' Della. My pappy's name was Jim Blair. Both of them was from Virginny,
but from diff'rent places, and was brought to Louisiana by nigger traders and sold to Massa
Lewis. I know my pappy was lots older than my mother and he had a wife and five chillen back
in Virginny and had been sold away from them out here. Then he and my mother started a family
out here. I don' know what become of his family back in Virginny, 'cause when we was freed
he stayed with us.

"When I got old enough I was housegirl and used to carry notes for Miss Mary to the neighbors
and bring back answers. Miss Mary would say, 'Now, Virginny, you take this note to sech and
sech place and be sure and be back in sech and sech time,' and I allus was.

"Massa Lewis had four or five families of us slaves, but we used to have some fun after work
and us young folks would skip rope and play ring games. Durin' week days the field hands would
work till the sun was jus' goin' down and then the overseer would holler 'all right' and that
was the signal to quit. All hands knocked off Sat'day noon.

"We didn' have no schoolin' or preachin'. Only the white folks had them, but sometimes on Sundays
we'd go up to the house and listen to the white folks singin'.

"Iffen any of the slave hands wanted to git married, Massa Lewis would git them up to the house
after supper time, have the man and woman jine hands and then read to them outen a book. I
guess it was the Scriptures. Then he'd tell 'em they was married but to be ready for work in
the mornin'. Massa Lewis married us 'cordin' to Gospel.

"Massa used to feed us good, too, and we had plenty clothes. Iffen we got took sick, we had
doctor treatment, too. Iffen a hand took sick in the field with a misery, they was carried
to their quarters and Massa or Miss Mary would give them a dose of epecac and make them vomit
and would sen' for the doctor. They wouldn' fool none iffen one of us took sick, but would
clean us out and take care of us till we was well.

"There was mighty little whippin' goin' on at our place, 'cause Massa Lewis and Miss Mary treated
us good. They wasn't no overseer goin' to whip, 'cause Massa wouldn' 'low him to. Le's see,
I don' rec'lec' more than two whippin's I see anyone git from Massa, and that has been so long
ago I don' rec'lec' what they was for.

"When the War done come 'long it sho' changed things, and we heerd this and that, but we didn'
know much what it was about. Then one day Massa Lewis had all the wagons loaded with food and
chairs and beds and other things from the house and our quarters, and I heerd him say we was
movin' to Polk County, way over in Texas. I know it took us a long time to git there, and when
we did I never see so much woods. It sho' was diff'rent from the plantation.

"I had to work in the fields, same as the res', and we stayed there three years and made three
crops of cotton, but not so much as on our old place, 'cause there wasn't so much clearin'.
Then one day Massa Lewis tol' us we was free, jus' as free as he was--jus' like you take the
bridle offen a hoss and turn him loose. We jus' looked 'roun as iffen we hadn' good sense.
We didn' have nothin' nor nowhere to go, and Massa Lewis say iffen we finish makin' de crop,
he would take us back to Opelousas and give us a place to stay and feed us. So after pickin'
we goes back and when we git there we sees where those rascal Yankees 'stroyed everything--houses
burned, sugar kettles broke up. It looked mighty bad.

"Massa Lewis hadn' no money, but he fixed us up a place to stay and give us what he could to
eat, but things was mighty hard for a while. I know pappy used to catch rabbits and take them
to town and sell them or trade them for somethin' to eat, and you know that wasn't much, 'cause
you can't git much for a little ol' rabbit.

"Then the Provo' Marshal, that was his name, give us a order for things to put in a crop with
and to live till we made the crop. 'Course, I guess we wasn' as bad off as some, 'cause white
folks knew we was Massa Lewis' folks and didn' bother us none.

Then I got married to John Bell, and it was a scripture weddin', too. He died 28 years ago,
but I has stayed married to him ever since. We had thirteen chillen, but they is all dead now
'cept four, but they was raised up right and they is mighty good to they ol' mammy.

420114

     EDGAR BENDY, 90 odd years, was the slave of Henry Bendy, of
     Woodville, Texas, has to make an effort to remember and is forced
     to seek aid from his wife, Minerva, at certain points in his story.
     Edgar has lived in Woodville all his life.

"I's a good size' boy when de war gwine on and I seed de soldiers come right here in Woodville.
A big bunch of dem come through and dey have cannons with dem. My marster he didn't go to war,
'cause he too old, I guess.

"I's born right here and done live hereabouts every since. Old man Henry Bendy, he my marster
and he run de store here in Woodville and have de farm, too. I didn't do nothin' 'cept nuss
babies. I jes' jump dem up and down and de old marster hire me out to nuss other white folks
chillen, big and little.

"My daddy name' Jack Crews and my mammy was Winnie. Both of dem worked on de farm and I never
seed dem much. I didn't have no house of my own, 'cause de marster, he give me de room in he
house. He have lots of slaves and 'bout 100 acres in cult'vation. He gave dem plenty to eat
and good homespun clothes to wear. He was mighty good.

"Marster have de plank house and all de things in it was home-made. De cook was a old cullud
woman and I eat at de kitchen table and have de same what de white folks eats. Us has lots
of meat, deer meat and possum and coon and sich, and us sets traps for birds.

"Dey ain't nothin' better dat go in de wood dan de big, fat possum. Dey git fat on black haws
and acorns and chinquapin and sich. Chinquapin is good for people to eat and to roast. I used
to be plumb give up to be de best hunter in Tyler and in de whole country. I kilt more deer
dan any other man in de county and I been guide for all de big men what comes here to hunt.
My wife, Minerva, she used to go huntin' with me.

"I kep' on huntin' and huntin' till de Jack-a-my-lanterns git after me. Dat a light you sees
all 'round you. Dey follow all 'long and dey stop you still. Den one time it git all over me.
Come like de wind, blow, blow, and come jes' like fire all on my arm and my clothes and things.
When dat git after me I quit huntin' at nighttime and ain't been huntin' since.

"One time I fishin' on de creek and I ain't got no gun, and I look up and dere a big, wild
cat. He never pay me no mind, no more dan nothin', but dat ain't made no diff'rence to me.
I jes' flew in dat creek!

"I used to belong to de lodge but when I git so old I couldn't pay my jews, I git unfinancial
and I ain't a member no more.

420174

     MINERVA BENDY, 83, was born a slave to Lazarus Goolsby, Henry Co.
     Alabama, who brought her to Texas when she was five. They settled
     near Woodville, where Minerva still lives.

"My earlies' 'membrance was de big, white sandy road what lead 'way from de house. It was clean
and white and us chillen love to walk in de soft, hot sand. Dat in Henry County, Alabama, where
I's born and my old marster was Lazarus Goolsby and he have de big plantation with lots of
nigger folks. I 'member jus' as good as yesterday wigglin' my toes in dat sandy road and runnin'
'way to de grits mill where dey grind de meal. Dat have de big water wheel dat sing and squeak
as it go 'round.

"Aunt Mary, she make all us little chillen sleep in de heat of de day under de big, spreadin'
oak tree in de yard. My mama have 17 chillen. Her name Dollie and my daddy name Herd.

"I's jus' a little chile in dem days and I stay in de house with de white folks. Dey raise
me a pet in de family. Missus Goolsby, she have two gals and dey give me to de oldest. When
she die dey put me in de bed with her but iffen I knowed she dyin' dey wouldn't been able to
cotch me. She rub my head and tell her papa and mama, 'I's gwine 'way but I wants you promise
you ain't never whip my little nigger.' Dey never did.

"I's jus' 'bout five year old when us make de trip to Texas. Us come right near Woodville and
make de plantation. It a big place and dey raise corn and cotton and cane. We makes our own
sugar and has many as six kettle on de furnace at one time. Dey raise dey tobacco, too. I's
sick and a old man he say he make me tobacco medicine and dey dry de leafs and make dem sweet
like sugar and feed me like candy.

"I 'member old marster say war broke out and Capt. Collier's men was a-drillin' right dere
south of Woodville. All de wives and chillen watch dem drill. Dey was lots of dem, but I couldn't
count. De whole shebang from de town go watch dem.

"Four of the Goolsby boys goes to dat war and dey call John and Ziby and Zabud and Addison.
Zabud, he git wounded, no he git kilt, and Addison he git wounded. I worry den, 'cause I ain't
see no reason for dem to have to die.

"After us free dey turn us loose in de woods and dat de bad time, 'cause most us didn't know
where to turn. I wasn't raise to do nothin' and I didn't know how. Dey didn't even give us
a hoecake or a slice of bacon.

"I's a June bride 59 year ago when I git married. De old white Baptist preacher name Blacksheer
put me and dat nigger over dere, Edgar Bendy, togedder and us been togedder ever since. Us
never have chick or chile. I's such a good nuss I guess de Lawd didn't want me to have none
of my own, so's I could nuss all de others and I 'spect I's nussed most de white chillen and
cullud, too, here in Woodville.

420177

     SARAH BENJAMIN, 82, was born a slave of the Gilbert family, in
     Clavin Parish, Louisiana. In 1867 she married Cal Benjamin and they
     settled in Corsicana, Texas, where Sarah now lives.

"I is Sarah Benjamin and is 82 year old, 'cause my mammy told me I's born in 1855 in Clavin
Parish in Louisiana. Her name was Fannie and my pappy's name Jack Callahan. There was jus'
three of us chillen and I's de oldest.

"Marse Gilbert was tol'able good to we'uns, and give us plenty to eat. He had a smokehouse
big as a church and it was full, and in de big kitchen we all et, chillen and all. De grown
folks et first and den de chillen. Did we have plenty of possums and fish by de barrels full!
All dis was cooked in de racks over de fireplace and it were good.

"Our clothes was all homespun and de shoes made by de shoemaker. Old marse wanted all us to
go to church and if dey didn't have shoes dey have something like de moccasin.

"I don't know how many slaves there was, but it was a lot, maybe 60 or 70. Dey worked hard
every day 'cept Sunday. Iffen they was bad they might git whuppin's, but not too hard, not
to de blood. Iffen dey was still bad, dey puts chains on dem and puts dem in de stocks, 'cause
there wasn't no jail there.

"Once when I's little, marse stripped me stark modern naked and puts me on de block, but he
wouldn't sell me, 'cause he was bid only $350.00 and he say no, 'cause I was good and fat.

"Dey didn't larn us nothin' and iffen you did larn to write, you better keep it to yourse'f,
'cause some slaves got de thumb or finger cut off for larnin' to write. When de slaves come
in from de fields dey didn't larn nothin', they jus' go to bed, 'lessen de moonshine nights
come and dey could work in de tobacco patch. De marster give each one de little tobacco patch
and iffen he raised more'n he could use he could sell it.

"On Christmas we all has de week vacation and maybe de dance. We allus have de gran' dinner
on dat day, and no whuppin's. But dey couldn't leave de plantation without de pass, even on
Christmas.

"De women had to run de gin in de daytime and de man at night. Dey fed de old gin from baskets
and my mammy fed from dose baskets all day with de high fever and died dat night. She wouldn't
tell de marster she sick, fer fear she have to take de quinine.

"De day we was freed, de slaves jus' scattered, 'cepting me. Missy Gilbert says I wasn't no
slave no more but I had to stay and he'p her for my board 'till I's grown. I stayed 'till I
was 'bout 16, den I runs away and marries Cal Benjamin, and we comes to Texas. Cal and me has
six chillen, but he died 'fore dey was grown.

420023

     JACK BESS was born near Goliad, Texas in 1854, a slave of Steve
     Bess who was a rancher. He worked with stock as a very young boy
     and this was his duty during and after the Civil War, as he
     remained with his boss for three years after emancipation. He then
     came to old Ben Ficklin four miles south of the present San Angelo,
     Texas, when it was the county seat of Tom Green County and before
     there was a San Angelo. He continued his work on ranches here and
     has never done any other kind of work. For the past several years
     he has been very feeble and has made his home with a daughter in
     San Angelo, Texas.

Jack who was assisted out of bed and dressed by his grandson, hobbled in on his cane and said,
"I was jes' a small boy workin' on de ranch when I hear talk 'bout conscription' de men for
de war what was agoin' to set de slaves free. We didn' know hardly what dey was a talkin' 'bout
'cause we knowed dat would be too good to be true. I jes' keeps on workin' wid my hosses and
my cattle (dere wasn't no sheep den) jes' like dere wasn't no war, 'cause dat was all I ever
knowed how to do.

"Our ole marster, he wasn't so very mean to us, course he whips us once and awhile but dat
wasn't like de slave holders what had dem colored drivers. Dey sho' was rough on de slaves.
I's been told lots 'bout de chains and de diffe'nt punishments but our treatment wasn't so
bad. Our beds was pretty good when we uses dem. Lots of de time we jes' sleeps on de groun',
'specially in summer.

"Our log huts was comfortable and we had some kind of floors in all of dem. Some was plank
and some was poles but dat was better den de dirt floors some cabins have.

"De eats we have was jes' good eats, lots of meats and vegetables and de like; 'possum and
coon and beef and pork all cooked good. Our clothes was jes' home spun like all de others.

"We didn' have such a big ranch and not many slaves but we all gits along. We learns a little
'bout readin' and writin'.

"I don't 'member any camp meetin's 'til after de war. We had a few den and on Christmas times
we jes' tears up de country. Lawdy! Lawd! Dat fiddlin' went on all night, and we dance awhile
den lay down and sleeps, den gits up and dances some mo'e. We would have big cakes and everything
good to eat.

"When we gits sick dey jes' gives us some kind of tea, mostly made from weeds. Mos' of de time
we gits well.

"When de news comes dat we was free our boss, he say, 'You free now.' Course we was glad but
we didn' know nothin' to do but jes' stay on dere, and we did 'bout three years and de boss
pays us a little by de month for our work.

"I's lef' dere den and comes to old Ben Ficklin to work on a ranch. Dat was before dere was
any San Angelo, Texas. I's been here ever since, jes' a workin' from one ranch to another long
as I was able. Now I's jes' stayin' 'round wid my chillun and dey takes good care of me."

420170

     ELLEN BETTS, 118 N. Live Oak St., Houston, Texas, is 84. All of her
     people and their masters came from Virginia and settled in
     Louisiana about 1853. Her grandparents belonged to the Green family
     and her parents, Charity and William Green, belonged to Tolas
     Parsons. Ellen lives with friends who support her. Her sole
     belonging is an old trunk and she carries the key on a string
     around her neck.

"I got borned on de Bayou Teche, clost to Opelousas. Dat in St. Mary's Parish, in Louisiana,
and I belonged to Tolas Parsons, what had 'bout 500 slaves, countin' de big ones and de little
ones, and he had God know what else. When my eyes jes' barely fresh open, Marse Tolas die and
will de hull lot of us to he brother, William Tolas. And I tells you dat Marse William am de
greates' man what ever walk dis earth. Dat's de truth. I can't lie on him when de pore man's
in he grave.

"When a whuppin' got to be done, old Marse do it heself. He don't 'low no overseer to throw
he gals down and pull up dere dress and whup on dere bottoms like I hear tell some of 'em do.
Was he still livin' I 'spect one part of he hands be with him today. I knows I would.

"When us niggers go down de road folks say, 'Dem's Parson's niggers. Don't hit one dem niggers
for God's sake, or Parsons sho' eat your jacket up.'

"Aunt Rachel what cook in de big house for Miss Cornelia had four young'uns and dem chillen
fat and slick as I ever seen. All de niggers have to stoop to Aunt Rachel jes' like dey curtsy
to Missy. I mind de time her husband, Uncle Jim, git mad and hit her over de head with de poker.
A big knot raise up on Aunt Rachel's head and when Marse 'quire 'bout it, she say she done
bump de head. She dassn't tell on Uncle Jim or Marse sho' beat him. Marse sho' proud dem black,
slick chillen of Rachels. You couldn't find a yaller chile on he place. He sho' got no use
for mixin' black and white.

"Marse William have de pretties' place up and down dat bayou, with de fine house and fine trees
and sech. From where we live it's five mile to Centerville one way and five mile to Patterson
t'other. Dey hauls de lumber from one place or t'other to make wood houses for de slaves. Sometime
Marse buy de furniture and sometime de carpenter make it.

"Miss Sidney was Marse's first wife and he had six boys by her. Den he marry de widow Cornelius
and she give him four boys. With ten chillen springin' up quick like dat and all de cullud
chillen comin' 'long fast as pig litters, I don't do nothin' all my days, but nuss, nuss, nuss.
I nuss so many chillen it done went and stunted my growth and dat's why I ain't nothin' but
bones to dis day.

"When de cullud women has to cut cane all day till midnight come and after, I has to nuss de
babies for dem and tend de white chillen, too. Some dem babies so fat and big I had to tote
de feet while 'nother gal tote de head. I was sech a li'l one, 'bout seven or eight year old.
De big folks leave some toddy for colic and cryin' and sech and I done drink de toddy and let
de chillen have de milk. I don't know no better. Lawsy me, it a wonder I ain't de bigges' drunker
in dis here country, countin' all de toddy I done put in my young belly!

"When late of night come, iffen dem babies wake up and bawl, I set up a screech and out-screech
dem till dey shut dere mouth. De louder day bawl de louder I bawl. Sometime when Marse hear
de babies cry, he come down and say, 'Why de chillen cry like dat, Ellen?' I say, 'Marse, I
git so hongry and tired I done drink de milk up.' When I talk sassy like dat, Marse jes' shake
he finger at me, 'cause he knowed I's a good one and don't let no little mite starve.

"Nobody ever hit me a lick. Marse allus say bein' mean to de young'uns make dem mean when dey
grows up and nobody gwineter buy a mean nigger. Marse don't even let de chillen go to de big
cane patch. He plant little bitty patches close to de house and each li'l nigger have a patch
and he work it till it got growed. Marse have de house girls make popcorn for 'em and candy.

"I nuss de sick folks too. Sometime I dose with Blue Mass pills and sometime Dr. Fawcett leave
rhubarb and ipicac and calomel and castor oil and sech. Two year after de war, I git marry
and git chillen of my own and den I turn into de wet nuss. I wet nuss de white chillen and
black chillen, like dey all de same color. Sometime I have a white'un pullin' de one side and
a black one de other.

"I wanted to git de papers for midwifin' but, law, I don't never have no time for larnin' in
slave time. If Marse cotch a paper in you hand he sho' whop you. He don't 'low no bright niggers
'round, he sell 'em quick. He allus say, 'Book larnin' don't raise no good sugar cane.' De
only larnin' he 'low was when dey larn de cullud chillen de Methodist catechism. De only writin'
a nigger ever git, am when he git born or marry or die, den Marse put de name in de big book.

Law, I 'lect de time Marse marry Miss Cornelia. He went on de mail boat and brung her from
New Orleans. She de pretties' woman in de world almost, 'ceptin' she have de bigges' mouth
I nearly ever seed. He brung her up to de house and all de niggers and boys and girls and cats
and dogs and sech come and salute her. Dere she stand on de gallery, with a purty white dress
on with red stripes runnin' up and down. Marse say to her, 'Honey, see all de black folks,
dey 'longs to you now.' She wave to us and smile on us and nex' day she give her weddin' dress
to my ma. Dat de fines' dress I ever seen. It was purple and green silk and all de nigger gals
wear dat dress when dey git marry. My sister Sidney wore it and Sary and Mary.

"Miss Cornelia was de fines' woman in de world. Come Sunday mornin' she done put a bucket of
dimes on de front gallery and stand dere and throw dimes to de nigger chillen jes' like feedin'
chickens. I sho' right here to test'fy, 'cause I's right dere helpin' grab. Sometime she done
put da washtub of buttermilk on de back gallery and us chillen bring us gourds and dip up dat
good, old buttermilk till it all git drunk up. Sometime she fotch bread and butter to de back
gallery and pass it out when it don't even come mealtime.

"Miss Cornelia set my ma to cuttin' patterns and sewin' right away. She give all de women a
bolt or linsey to make clothes and ma cut de pattern. Us all have de fine drawers down to de
ankle, buttoned with pretty white buttons on de bottom. Lawsy, ma sho' cut a mite of drawers,
with sewin' for her eleven gals and four boys, too. In de summertime we all git a bolt of blue
cloth and white tape for trimmin', to make Sunday dresses. For de field, all de niggers git
homespun what you make jumpers out of. I 'lect how Marse say, 'Don't go into de field dirty
Monday mornin'. Scrub youself and put on de clean jumper.'

"Marse sho' good to dem gals and bucks what cuttin' de cane. When dey git done makin' sugar,
he give a drink call 'Peach 'n Honey' to de women folk and whiskey and brandy to de men. And
of all de dancin' and caperin' you ever seen! My pa was fiddler and we'd cut de pigeon wing
and cut de buck and every other kind of dance. Sometime pa git tired and say he ain't gwineter
play no more and us gals git busy and pop him corn and make candy, so to 'tice him to play more.

"Marse sho' turn over in he grave did he know 'bout some dat 'lasses. Dem black boys don't
care. I seen 'em pull rats out de sugar barrel and dey taste de sugar and say, 'Ain't nothin'
wrong with dat sugar. It still sweet.' One day a pert one pull a dead scorpion out de syrup
kettle and he jes' laugh and say, 'Marse don't want waste none dis syrup,' and he lick de syrup
right off dat scorpion's body and legs.

"Lawsy me, I seen thousands and thousands sugar barrels and kettles of syrup in my day. Lawd
knows how much cane old Marse have. To dem cuttin' de cane it don't seem so much, but to dem
what work hour in, hour out, dem sugar cane fields sho' stretch from one end de earth to de
other. Marse ship hogs and hogs of sugar down de bayou. I seen de river boats go down with
big signs what say, 'Buy dis here 'lasses' on de side. And he raise a world of rice and 'taters
and corn and peanuts, too.

"When de work slight, us black folks sho have de balls and dinners and sech. We git all day
to barbecue meat down on de bayou and de white folks come down and eat long side de cullud.

"When a black gal marry, Marse marry her hisself in de big house. He marry 'em Saturday, so
dey git Sunday off, too. One time de river boat come bearin' de license for niggers to git
marry with. Marse chase 'em off and say, 'Don't you come truckin' no no-count papers roun'
my niggers. When I marry 'em, dey marry as good as if de Lawd God hisself marry 'em and it
don't take no paper to bind de tie.' Marse don't stand no messin' 'round, neither. A gal have
to be of age and ask her pa and ma and Marse and Missy, and if dey 'gree, dey go ahead and
git marry. Marse have de marry book to put de name down.

"One time Marse take me 'long to help tote some chillen. He done write up to Virginny for to
buy fresh hands. Dey a old man dat hobble 'long de road and de chillen start to throw rocks
and de old man turn 'round to one prissy one and say, 'Go on, young'un, you'll be where dogs
can't bark at you tomorrow. Nex' mornin' us cookin' in de kitchen and all a sudden dat li'l
boy jes' crumple up dead on de floor. Law, we's scairt. Nobody ever bother dat old man no more,
for he sho' lay de evil finger on you.

"Marse's brother, Conrad, what was a widdyman, come to live on de plantation and he had a li'l
gal 'bout eight year old. One day she in de plum orchard playin' with a rattlesnake and Marse
Conrad have de fit. De li'l gal won't let nobody hurt dat snake and she play with him. He won't
bite her. She keeps him 'bout three year, and she'd rub and grease him. One day he got sick
and dey give him some brandy, but he die and old Doc pickle him in de bottle of brandy. Dat
gal git so full of grief dey take her to de infirm'ry in New Orleans and den one day she up
and die.

"Dat snake ain't all what Doc Fawcett pickle. A slave woman give birth to a baby gal what have
two faces with a strip of hair runnin' 'tween. Old Doc Fawcett pickle it in de jar of brandy.
Old doc start to court Miss Cornelia when Marse die, but she don't have none of him and he
done went straight 'way and kill hisself.

"One day a li'l man come ridin' by on a li'l dun hoss so fast you couldn't see dat hoss tail
a-switchin'. He whoopin' and hollerin'. Us niggers 'gun whoop and holler, too. Den first thing
you know de Yanks and de Democrats 'gun to fight right dere. Dey a high old mountain front
Marse's house and de Yanks 'gun pepper cannon ball down from de top dat hill. De war met right
dere and dem Yanks and Democrats fit for twenty-four hours straight runnin'.

"When de bullets starts rainin' down, Marse call us and slip us way back into de woods, where
it so black and deep. Next day, when de fight over, Marse come out with great big wagons piles
full of mess-poke for us to eat. Dat what us call hog meat. Us sho' glad to 'scape from de Yankees.

"When us driv back to de plantation, sech a sight I never seen. Law, de things I can tell.
Dem Yanks have kilt men and women. I seed babies pick up from de road with dere brains bust
right out. One old man am drawin' water and a cannon ball shoots him right in de well. Dey
draws him up with de fishin' line. Dey's a old sugar boat out on de bayou with blood and sugar
runnin' long side de busted barrels. 'Lasses run in de bayou and blood run in de ditches. Marse
have de great big orchard on de road and it wipe clean as de whistle. Bullets wipe up everythin'
and bust dat sugar cane all to pieces. De house sot far back and 'scape de bullets, but, law,
de time dey have!

"Dey's awful, awful times after dat. A old cotton dress cost five dollars and a pound of coffee
cost five dollars and a pint cup flour cost six bits. De Yanks 'round all de time and one day
they comes right in de house where Miss Cornelia eatin' her dinner. Dey march 'round de table,
jes' scoopin' up meat and 'taters and grabbin' cornpone right and left. Miss Cornelia don't
say a word, jes' smile sweet as honey-cake. I reckon dem sojers might a took de silver and
sech only she charm 'em by bein' so quiet and ladylike. First thing you know dem sojers curtsy
to Missy and take dereself right out de door and don't come back.

"Den it seem like Marse have all de trouble in de world. He boy, Ned, die in de war and William,
what name for he pa, drink bad all de time. And after de war dem Ku Kluxers what wear de false
faces try to tinker with Marse's niggers. One day Uncle Dave start to town and a Kluxer ask
him where am he pass. Dat Kluxer clout him but Uncle Dave outrun him in de cane. Marse grab
de hoss and go 'rest dat man and Marse a jedge and he make dat man pay de fine for hittin'
Uncle Dave. After dey hears of dat, dem old poky faces sho' scairt of old Marse and dey git
out from Opelousas and stays out. When me and my husband, John, come to Texas de folks say
dat Louisiana masters de meanes' in de world and I say right back at 'em dat dey is good and
mean in every spot of de earth. What more, de Louisiana masters free dere niggers a year befo'
any Texas nigger git free.

"When 'mancipation come, Marse git on de big block and say, 'You all is as free as I is, standin'
right here. Does you want to stay with me, you can, and I'll pay you for de work.' All de niggers
cheer and say dey want to stay, but Marse die not long after and all us niggers scatter.

"I sho' 'lect dat day old Marse die. He won't die till ma gits there. He keep sayin', "Where's
Charity, tell Charity to come." Dey fotch ma from de cane patch and she hold Marse's hand till
he die. Us niggers went to de graveyard and us sho' cry over old Marse.

"Marse's brother, Goldham, carries all he hands back to de free country to turn 'em loose.
He say de free country am de ones what's yellin' 'bout slave times, so dey could jes' take
care of de niggers. Marse Goldham so big dat when he stand in de door you couldn't git by him,
'thout he stand sideways.

"Law, times ain't like dey was in slave days. All my ten chillen is dead and my old man gone,
and now I reckon my time 'bout 'rive. All I got to do now am pray de Lawd to keep me straight,
den when de great day come, I can march de road to glory.

420125

     CHARLOTTE BEVERLY was born a slave to Captain Pankey's wife, in
     Montgomery County, Texas. She has lived most of her life within a
     radius of 60 miles from Houston, and now lives with one of her
     children in a little house on the highway between Cleveland and
     Shepherd, Texas. She does not know her age, but appears to be about
     ninety.

"I's born in Montgomery County and I's the mudder of eleven chillen, four gals and seven boys.
My grandma come from Alabama and my daddy was Strawder Green and he belong to Col. Hughes.
My maw named Phyllis and she belong to Capt. Pankey.

"There was 'bout forty niggers, big and little, on the plantation. Lawd, they was good to us.
Us didn' know nothin' 'bout bad times and cutting and whipping and slashing. I had to work
in the house and I 'member one thing I has to do was scrub Mistus' gol' snuffbox twict a week.
She kep' sweet, Scotch snuff and sometimes I takes a pinch out.

"We used to go to the white folks church and if us couldn' git in we'd stand round by the door
and sing. Mistus wouldn' 'low us dance on the place but they give us pass to go to dance on
nex' plantation, where my daddy live.

"Every year they have big Christmas dinner and ham and turkey and allus feed us good. Us have
Christmas party and sing songs. That was sweet music.

"Marster have a lovely house, all ceiled and plastered. It was a log house but it was make
all beautiful inside with mirrors and on the board was lots of silver and china and silver
spoons with the gol' linin's and part of my job was to keep 'em sparklin'.

"Folks in them times cooks in the fireplace and my auntie, she cook. She make 'simmon bread
and 'tater pone and the like. She mash up 'simmons with butter and pour sweet milk and flour
in it. That make good 'simmon bread. We has skillets what was flat and deep and set on three legs.

"The slaves lived in little log houses and sleep on wood beds. The beds was make three-legged.
They make augur hole in side of the house and put in pieces of wood to make the bed frame,
and they put straw and cotton mattress on them bed.

"Old marster used to let he slaves have a extry cotton patch to theyselves and they work it
by the moonlight. They could sell that cotton and have the money for theyselves.

"My white mistus was a Christian and she'd own her God anywhere. She used to shout, jus' sit
and clap her hands and say, 'Hallalujah.' Once I seed her shout in church and I thinks something
ail her and I run down the aisle and goes to fannin' her.

"One of the slaves was a sort-a preacher and sometimes marster 'lowed him to preach to the
niggers, but he have to preach with a tub over his head, 'cause he git so happy he talk too
loud. Somebody from the big house liable to come down and make him quit 'cause he makin' 'sturbance.

"I brings water from the well and they have what they call piggins, and they was little tubs
with two handles. Mistus wouldn' 'low me to do any heavy work.

"I see sojers and knits socks for 'em by moonshine. Me and my husban' was married by a Yankee
sojer. I was dress in white Tarleyton weddin' dress and I didn' wear no hoop skirt. I had a
pretty wreath of little white flowers, little bitty, little dainty ones, the pretties' little
things. When I marry, my sister marry too and our husban's was brudders. My husban' dress in
suit of white linen. He sho' look handsome. He give me a gol' ring and a cup and saucer for
weddin' gif'. We git married in Huntsville and us didn' go no weddin' journey trip. We was
so poor we couldn' go round the house! I's 'bout twenty some year when I marries, but I don'
know jus' how old. We has a big dance that night and the white folks come, 'cause they likes
to see the niggers dance.

"The white folks had interes' in they cullud people where I live. Sometimes they's as many
as fifty cradle with little nigger babies in 'em and the mistus, she look after them and take
care of them, too. She turn them and dry them herself. She had a little gal git water and help.
She never had no chillen of her own. I'd blow the horn for the mudders of the little babies
to come in from the fields and nurse 'em, in mornin' and afternoon. Mistus feed them what was
old enough to eat victuals. Sometimes, they mammies take them to the field and fix pallet on
ground for them to lay on.

"The las' word my old Mistus Pankey say when she die was, 'You take care of Charlette.'

420249

     FRANCIS BLACK was born at Grand Bluff, Mississippi, about 1850, on
     the Jim Carlton plantation. When five years old, she was stolen and
     taken to the slave market in New Orleans. Failing to sell her
     there, the slave traders took her to Jefferson, Texas, and sold her
     to Bill Tumlin. Francis stayed with him five years after she was
     freed, then married and moved to Cass County, Texas. She became
     blind a year ago, and now lives at the Bagland Old Folks Home, 313
     Elm St., Texarkana, Texas.

"My name am Francis Black, and I don't know jes' how old I is, but 'members lots 'bout them
slave days. I was a big gal, washin' and ironin', when they sot the darkies free. From that,
I cal'late I'm in my eighties.

"I was born in Grand Bluff, in Mississippi, on Old Man Carlton's plantation, and I was stole
from my folks when I was a li'l gal and never seed them no more. Us kids played in the big
road there in Mississippi, and one day me and 'nother gal is playin' up and down the road and
three white men come 'long in a wagon. They grabs us up and puts us in the wagon and covers
us with quilts. I hollers and yells and one the men say, 'Shet up, you nigger, or I'll kill
you.' I told him, 'Kill me if you wants to--you stole me from my folks.'

"Them men took us to New Orleans to the big slave market. I had long hair and they cut it off
like a boy and tried to sell me, but I told them men what looks at me, the men cut my hair
off and stole me. The man what cut my hair off cursed me and said if I didn't hush he'd kill
me, but he couldn't sell us at New Orleans and took us to Jefferson.

"I never knowed what they done with the other gal, but they sold me to Marse Bill Tumlin, what
run a big livery stable in Jefferson, and I 'longed to him till surrender. I lived in the house
with them, 'cause they had a boy and gal and I did for them. They bought me clothes and took
good care of me but I never seed no money till surrender. I et what they et, after they got
through. Missy say she didn't 'lieve in feedin' the darkies scraps, like some folks.

"I played with them two chillen all day, then sot the table. I was so small I'd git in a chair
to reach the dishes out of the safe. I had to pull a long flybrush over the table whilst the
white folks et.

"Marse Tumlin had a farm 'bout four mile from town, and a overseer, and I seed him buckle the
niggers crost a log and whip them. Marse lived in Jefferson, heself, and when he'd go to the
farm he allus took his boy with him. We'd be playin' in the barn and Marse call from the house,
'Come on, Jimmie, we're gwine to the farm.' Jimmie allus say to me, 'Come on, nigger, let's
ride round the farm.' I'd say, 'I ain't no nigger.' He'd say, 'Yes, you is, my pa paid $200
for you. He bought you for to play with me.'

"Jefferson was a good town till it burned up. I 'members the big fire what looked like the
whole town gwineter burn up. Marse Bill lost his livery stable in the fire.

"The Yankee soldiers, all dressed in blue, come to run the town after the war. Marse Tumlin
done told me I'm free, but I stays on till I'm most growed. Then I works round town and marries
Dave Black, and we moved to Cass County. I raises six chillun but my old man done git so triflin'
and mean I quit him and worked for myself. I come to Texarkana to work, and allus could earn
my own livin' till 'bout a year ago I lost my seein', and Albert Ragland done took me in his
home for the old folks. They gives me a $10 a month pension now. They is good to me here and
feeds us good.

420142

     OLIVIER BLANCHARD, 95 years old, was a slave of Clairville La San,
     who owned a large plantation in Martinville Parish, Louisiana. His
     father was a Frenchman and Olivier speaks rather haltingly, as
     though it is difficult for him to express his thoughts in English,
     for he has talked a species of French all his life. He lives in
     Beaumont, Texas.

"I was plowing and hoeing before the freedom and I talk more of the French 'cause I comes from
St. Martinville Parish. I was born there in Louisiana and my mama was Angeline Jean Pierre
and she was slave born. My papa was Olivier Blanchard and he white man carpenter on old plantation.
We belong to Clairville La San and all live on that place. My papa just plain carpenter but
could draw patterns for houses. I don't know where he larn that work.

"I was count freeborn and still have one white half sister alive. When freedom come my mama
and papa split up and mama get marry.

"I pick cotton and mama cook. She make koosh-koosh and cyayah--that last plain clabber. Mama
cook lots of gaspergou and carp and the poisson ami fish, with the long snout--what they call
gar now. I think it eel fish they strip the skin off and wrap round the hair and make it curly.

"The Bayou Teche, it run close by and the women do all the clothes with a big paddle with holes
in it to clean them in the bayou. They paddle them clean on the rocks and then wash them in
the water.

"One time one big bayou 'gator come up and bite a woman's arm off. She my sister in law. But
they keep on washing the clothes in the bayou just the same.

"We have plenty to eat and peaches and muscadines and pecans, 'cause there right smart woods
and swamp there. We play in the woods and most time in the bayou on boats with planks what
would float. We had the good time and had a little pet coon. You know, the coon like sweet
things and he steal our syrup and when we chase him with the switch he hide under the bed.

"My old missus was good Catholic and she have us christened and make the first communion. That
not registered, 'cause it before the freedom, but it were in old St. Martin's church, same
old church what stand now. There was a statue of Pere Jean, the old priest, in front the church
and one of St. Martin, too.

"Plenty men from St. Martinville go to the war and Archie DeBlieu, he go to Virginia and fight.
The first one to pass our place was John Well Banks and he was a Yankee going up the Red River.

"The yellow fever came durin' that war and kill lots. All the big plantation have the graveyard
for the cullud people. That fever so bad they get the coffin ready before they dead and they
so scared that some weren't dead but they think they are and bury them. There was a white girl
call Colene Sonnier what was to marry Sunday and she take sick Friday before. She say not to
bury her in the ground but they put her there while they got the tomb ready. When they open
the ground grave to put her in the tomb they find she buried alive and she eat all her own
shoulder and hand away. Her sweetheart, Gart Berrild, he see that corpse, and he go home and
get took with yellow fever and die.

"They was the old lady what die. She was a terrible soul. One time after she die I go to get
water out of her rain barrel and I had a lamp in one hand. That old lady's ghost blowed out
the lamp and slapped the pitcher out my hand. After she first die her husband put black dress
on her and tie up the jaw with a rag and my girl look in the room and there that old lady,
Liza Lee, sittin' by the fire. My girl tell her mama and after three day she go back, and Liza
Lee buried but my wife see her sittin' by the fire. Then she sorry she whip the chile for sayin'
she saw Liza Lee. That old lady, Liza Lee, was a tart and she stay a tart for a long time.

"I marry 72 year ago in the Catholic Church in St. Martinville. My wife call Adeline Chretien
and she dead 37 year. We have seven children but four live now. Frank my only boy live now,
in Iowa, in Louisiana, and my two girls live, Enziede De Querive and Rose Baptiste.

420199

     JULIA BLANKS was born of a slave mother and a three-quarter Indian
     father, in San Antonio, in the second year of the Civil War. Her
     mother, part French and part Negro, was owned by Mrs. John G.
     Wilcox, formerly a Miss Donaldson, who had lived at the White
     House, and who gave Julia to her daughter. After the slaves were
     freed, Julia continued to live with her mother in San Antonio
     until, at fifteen, she married Henry Hall. Five years later her
     second marriage took place, at Leon Springs, Texas, where she lived
     until moving to the Adams ranch, on the Frio River. Here she raised
     her family. After leaving the Adams ranch, Julia and Henry bought
     two sections of state land, but after four years they let it go
     back because of Henry's ill health, and moved to Uvalde.

"I was born in San Antonio, in 1862. My mother's name was Rachael Miller. I don't know if she
was born in Tennessee or Mississippi. I heard her talk of both places. I don't know nothing
about my father, because he run off when I was about three months old. He was three-quarter
Cherokee Indian. They were lots of Indians then, and my husband's people come from Savannah,
Georgia, and he said they was lots of Indians there. I had two sisters and one brother and
the sisters are dead but my brother lives somewhere in Arizona. My mother's master's name was
John C. Wilcox.

"When we was small chillen, they hired my sisters out, but not me. My grandfather bought my
grandmother's time and they run a laundry house. They hired my mother out, too.

"You see, my grandmother was free born, but they stole her and sold her to Miss Donaldson.
She was half French. She looked jes' like a French woman. She wasn't a slave, but she and her
brother were stolen and sold. She said the stage coach used to pass her aunt's house, and one
day she and her brother went down to town to buy some buns, and when they were comin' back,
the stage stopped and asked 'em to ride. She wanted to ride, but her brother didn't. But they
kep' coaxin' 'em till they got 'em in. They set her down between the two women that was in
there and set her brother between two men, and when they got close to the house, they threw
cloaks over their heads and told the driver to drive as fast as he could, and he sure drove.
They taken 'em to Washin'ton, to the White House, and made her a present to Mary Wilcox (Miss
Donaldson) and her brother to somebody else. Then this woman married John C. Wilcox and they
come to Texas.

"She saw a cousin of hers when they got to Washin'ton, and she knew, after that, he had somethin'
to do with her and her brother bein' stolen. One day she found a piece of yellow money and
took it to her cousin and he told her it wasn't no good and gave her a dime to go get her some
candy. After that, she saw gold money and knew what it was.

"She said she had a good time, though, when she was growing up. They were pretty good to her,
but after they came to San Antonio, Mrs. Wilcox began bein' mean. She kep' my mother hired
out all the time and gave me to her daughter and my sister to her son. My mother was kep' hired
out all the time, cooking; and after freedom, she just took to washin' and ironin'. My grandfather
bought his time and my grandmother's time out. They didn't stay with her.

"I've heard my mother talk about coffee. They roasted beans and made coffee. She says, out
on the plantation, they would take bran and put it in a tub and have 'em stir it up with water
in it and let all the white go to the bottom and dip it off and strain it and make starch.
I have made starch out of flour over and often, myself. I had four or five little girls; and
I had to keep 'em like pins. In them days they wore little calico dresses, wide and full and
standin' out, and a bonnet to match every dress.

"I used to hear my grandmother tell about the good times they used to have. They would go from
one plantation to another and have quiltin's and corn huskin's. And they would dance. They
didn't have dances then like they do now. The white people would give them things to eat. They
would have to hoof it five or six miles and didn't mind it.

"They had what they called patros, and if you didn't have a pass they would whip you and put
you in jail. Old Man Burns was hired at the courthouse, and if the marsters had slaves that
they didn't want to whip, they would send them to the courthouse to be whipped. Some of the
marsters was good and some wasn't. There was a woman, oh, she was the meanest thing! I don't
know if she had a husband--I never did hear anything about him. When she would get mad at one
of her slave women, she would make the men tie her down, and she had what they called cat-o'-nine-tails,
and after she got the blood to come, she would dip it in salt and pepper and whip her again.
Oh, she was mean! My mother's marster was good; he wouldn't whip any of his slaves. But his
wife wasn't good. If she got mad at the women, when he would come home she would say: 'John,
I want you to whip Liza.' Or Martha. And he would say, 'Them are your slaves. You whip them.'
He was good and she was mean.

"When my aunt would go to clean house, she (Mrs. Wilcox) would turn all the pictures in the
house but one, the meanest looking one--you know how it always looks like a picture is watching
you everywhere you go--and she would tell her if she touched a thing or left a bit of dirt
or if she didn't do it good, this picture would tell. And she believed it.

"My grandmother told a tale one time. You know in slave time they had an old woman to cook
for the chillen. One day they were going to have company. This woman that was the boss of the
place where the chillen was kept told the old cullud woman to take a piece of bacon and grease
the mouths of all the chillen. Then she told a boy to bring them up to these people, and the
woman said: 'Oh, you must feed these chillen good, just look at their mouths!' And the woman
said, 'Oh, that's the way they eat.' They didn't get meat often. That was just to make them
believe they had lots to eat.

"No. They were cut off from education. The way my stepfather got his learning was a cullud
blacksmith would teach school at night, and us chillen taught our mother. She didn't know how
to spell or read or nothin'. She didn't know B from bull's foot. Some of them were allowed
to have church and some didn't. Mighty few read the Bible 'cause they couldn't read. As my
mother used to say, they were raised up as green as cucumbers. That old blacksmith was the
onlyist man that knew how to read and write in slavery time that I knew of. My grandmother
or none of them knew how to read; they could count, but that was all. That's what makes me
mad. I tell my grandchillen they ought to learn all they can 'cause the old people never had
a chance. My husband never did have any schooling, but he sure could figger. Now, if you want
me to get tangled up, just give me a pencil and paper and I don't know nothing." She tapped
her skull. "I figger in my head! The chillen, today, ought to appreciate an education.

"Oh, yes, they were good to the slaves when they were sick. They would have the doctor come
out and wait on them. Most plantations had what they called an old granny cullud woman that
treated the chillen with herbs and such things.

"Games? I don't know. We used to play rap jacket. We would get switches and whip one another.
You know, after you was hit several times it didn't hurt much. I've played a many time. In
slave time the men used to go huntin' at night, and hunt 'possums and 'coons. They would have
a dog or two along. They used to go six or seven miles afoot to corn huskin's and quiltin's.
And those off the other plantations would come over and join in the work. And they would nearly
always have a good dinner. Sometimes some of the owners would give 'em a hog or somethin' nice
to eat, but some of 'em didn't.

"No'm, I don't know if they run off to the North, but some of them runned off and stayed in
the swamps, and they was mean. They called them runaways. If they saw you, they would tell
you to bring them something to eat. And if you didn't do it, if they ever got you they sure
would fix you.

"I don't know when my mother was set free. My husband's marster's name was King. He was from
Savannah, Georgia, but at the time was living close to Boerne. My husband's father was killed
in the war. When my husband was about ten years old, his marster hadn't told them they was
free. You know some of them didn't tell the slaves they was free until they had to. After freedom
was declared, lots of people didn't tell the slaves they were free. One morning, my husband
said, he happended to look out and he saw a big bunch of men coming down the road, and he thought
he never saw such pretty men in his life on them horses. They had so many brass buttons on
their clothes it looked like gold. So he run and told his mama, and she looked and saw it was
soldiers, and some of 'em told the boss, and he looked and saw them soldiers comin' in the
big gate and he called 'em in quick, and told them they were free. So when the soldiers come,
they asked him if he had told his slaves they were free, and he said yes. They asked the Negroes
if they lived there, and they said yes. One said, 'He just told us we was free.' The soldiers
asked him why he had just told them, and he said they wasn't all there and he was waiting for
them all to be there.

"My husband said he thought them was the prettiest bunch of men he ever saw, and the prettiest
horses. Of course, he hadn't never saw any soldiers before. I know it looked pretty to me when
I used to see the soldiers at the barracks and hear the band playin' and see them drillin'
and ever'thing. You see, we lived on a little cross-street right back of St. Mary's Church
in San Antonio, I don't know how that place is now. Where the post office is now, there used
to be a blacksmith shop and my father worked there. I went back to San Antonio about fifteen
years ago and jes' took it afoot and looked at the changes.

"I was fifteen years old the first time I married. It was almost a run-a-way marriage. I was
married in San Antonio. My first husband's name was Henry Hall. My first wedding dress was
as wide as a wagon sheet. It was white lawn, full of tucks, and had a big ruffle at the bottom.
I had a wreath and a veil, too. The veil had lace all around it. We danced and had a supper.
We danced all the dances they danced then; the waltz, square, quadrille, polka, and the gallopade--and
that's what it was, all right; you shore galloped. You'd start from one end of the hall and
run clear to the other end. In those days, the women with all them long trains--the man would
hold it over his arm. No, Lord! Honeymoons wasn't thought of then. No'm, I never worked out
a day in my life." Jokingly, "I guess they thought I was too good looking. I was about twenty
years old when I married the second time. I was married in Leon Springs the second time.

"Before we come out to this country from Leon Springs, they was wild grapes, dewberries, plums
and agaritas, black haws, red haws. M-m-m! Them dewberries, I dearly love 'em! I never did
see wild cherries out here. I didn't like the cherries much, but they make fine wine. We used
to gather mustang grapes and make a barrel of wine.

"After I married the second time, we lived on the Adams ranch on the Frio and stayed on that
ranch fifteen years. We raised all our chillen right on that ranch. I am taken for a Mexkin
very often. I jes' talk Mexkin back to 'em. I learned to talk it on the ranch. As long as I
have lived at this place, I have never had a cross word about the chillen. All my neighbors
here is Mexkins. They used to laugh at me when I tried to talk to the hands on the ranch, but
I learned to talk like 'em.

"We used to have big round-ups out on the Adams ranch. They had fences then. The neighbors
would all come over and get out and gather the cattle and bring 'em in. Up at Leon Springs
at that time they didn't have any fences, and they would have big round-ups there. But after
we come out here, it was different. He would notify his neighbors they were goin' to gather
cattle on a certain day. The chuck wagon was right there at the ranch, that is, I was the chuck
wagon. But if they were goin' to take the cattle off, they would have a chuck wagon. They would
round up a pasture at a time and come in to the ranch for their meals. Now on the Wallace ranch,
they would always take a chuck wagon. When they were gettin' ready to start brandin' at the
ranch, my husband always kep' his brandin' irons all in the house, hangin' up right where he
could get his hands on 'em. Whenever they would go off to other ranches to gather cattle, you
would see ever' man with his beddin' tied up behind him on his horse. He'd have jes' a small
roll. They would always have a slicker if nothin' else. That slicker answered for ever'thing
sometimes. My husband slep' many a night with his saddle under his head.

"He used to carry mail from San Antonio to Dog Town, horseback. That was the town they used
to call Lodi (Lodo), but I don't know how to spell it, and don't know what it means. It was
a pretty tough town. The jail house was made out of 'dobe and pickets. They had a big picket
fence all around it. They had a ferry that went right across the San Antonio River from Floresville
to Dog Town. I know he told me he come to a place and they had a big sign that said, 'Nigga,
don't let the sun go down on you here.' They was awful bad down in there. He would leave Dog
Town in the evenin' and he would get to a certain place up toward San Antonio to camp, and
once he stopped before he got to the place he always camped at. He said he didn't know what
made 'im stop there that time, but he stopped and took the saddle off his horse and let 'im
graze while he lay down. After a while, he saw two cigarette fires in the dark right up the
road a little piece, and he heard a Mexkin say, 'I don't see why he's so late tonight. He always
gets here before night and camps right there.' He knew they was waylayin' 'im, so he picked
his saddle up right easy and carried it fu'ther back down the road in the brush and then come
got his horse and took him out there and saddled 'im up and went away 'round them Mexkins.
He went on in to San Antonio and didn't go back any more. A white man took the mail to carry
then and the first trip he made, he never come back. He went down with the mail and they found
the mail scattered somewhere on the road, but they never found the man, or the horse, either.

"On the Adams ranch, in the early days, we used to have to pack water up the bank. You might
not believe it, but one of these sixty-pound lard cans full of water, I've a-carried it on
my head many a time. We had steps cut into the bank, and it was a good ways down to the water,
and I'd pack that can up to the first level and go back and get a couple a buckets of water,
and carry a bucket in each hand and the can on my head up the next little slantin' hill before
I got to level ground. I carried water that way till my chillen got big enough to carry water,
then they took it up. When I was carryin' water in them big cans my head would sound like new
leather--you know how it squeaks, and that was the way it sounded in my head. But, it never
did hurt me. You see, the Mexkins carry loads on their heads, but they fix a rag around their
heads some way to help balance it. But I never did. I jes' set it up on my head and carried
it that way. Oh, we used to carry water! My goodness! My mother said it was the Indian in me--the
way I could carry water.

"When we were first married and moved to the Adams ranch, we used to come here to Uvalde to
dances. They had square dances then. They hadn't commenced all these frolicky dances they have
now. They would have a supper, but they had it to sell. Every fellow would have to treat his
girl he danced with.

"I can remember when my grandfather lived in a house with a dirt floor, and they had a fireplace.
And I can remember just as well how he used to bake hoecakes for us kids. He would rake back
the coals and ashes real smooth and put a wet paper down on that and then lay his hoecake down
on the paper and put another paper on top of that and the ashes on top. I used to think that
was the best bread I ever ate. I tried it a few times, but I made such a mess I didn't try
it any more. One thing I have seen 'em make, especially on the ranch. You take and clean a
stick and you put on a piece of meat and piece of fat till you take and use up the heart and
liver and sweetbread and other meat and put it on the stick and wrap it around with leaf fat
and then put the milk gut, or marrow gut, around the whole thing. They call that macho (mule),
and I tell you, it's good. They make it out of a goat and sheep, mostly.

"Another thing, we used to have big round-ups, and I have cooked great pans of steak and mountain
orshters. Generally, at the brandin' and markin', I cooked up many a big pan of mountain orshters.
I wish I had a nickel for ever' one I've cooked, and ate too! People from up North have come
down there, and, when they were brandin' and cuttin' calves there, they sure did eat and enjoy
that dinner.

"The men used to go up to the lake, fishin', and catch big trout, or bass, they call 'em now;
and we'd take big buckets of butter--we didn't take a saucer of butter or a pound; we taken
butter up there in buckets, for we sure had plenty of it--and we'd take lard too, and cook
our fish up there, and had corn bread or hoe cakes and plenty of butter for ever'thing, and
it sure was good. I tell you--like my husband used to say--we was livin' ten days in the week,
then.

"When we killed hogs, the meat from last winter was hung outside and then new meat, salted
down and then smoked, put in there, and we would cook the old bacon for the dogs. We always
kep' some good dogs there, and anybody'll tell you they was always fat. We had lots of wild
turkeys and I raised turkeys, too, till I got sick of cookin' turkeys. Don't talk about deer!
You know, it wasn't then like it is now. You could go kill venison any time you wanted to.
But I don't blame 'em for passin' that law, for people used to go kill 'em and jes' take out
the hams and tenderloin and leave the other layin' there. I have saved many a sack of dried
meat to keep it from spoilin'.

"We would raise watermelons, too. We had a big field three mile from the house and a ninety-acre
field right in the house. We used to go get loads of melons for the hogs and they got to where
they didn't eat anything but the heart.

"I used to leave my babies at the house with the older girl and go out horseback with my husband.
My oldest girl used to take the place of a cowboy, and put her hair up in her hat. And ride!
My goodness, she loved to ride! They thought she was a boy. She wore pants and leggin's. And
maybe you think she couldn't ride!

"After we left that ranch, we took up some state land. I couldn't tell you how big that place
was. We had 640 in one place and 640 in another place; it was a good big place. After my husband
got sick, we had to let it go back. We couldn't pay it out. We only lived on it about four years.

"My husband has been dead about nineteen years. I had a pen full and a half of chillen. I have
four livin' chillen, two girls and two boys. I have a girl, Carrie, in California, workin'
in the fruit all the time; one boy, George, in Arizona, workin' in the mines; and a girl in
Arizona, Lavinia, washes and irons and cooks and ever'thing else she can get at. And I have
one boy here. I have ten grandchillen and I've got five great grandchillen.

"I belong to the Methodist Church. I joined about twenty-five years ago. My husband joined
with me. But here, of late years, when I go to church, it makes me mad to see how the people
do the preacher up there trying to do all the good he can do and them settin' back there laughin'
and talkin'. I was baptized. There was about five or six of us baptized in the Leona down here.

"People tell that I've got plenty and don't need help. Even the Mexkins here and ever'body
say I've got money. Jes' because we had that farm down there they think I come out with money.
But what in the world would I want with money if I didn't use it? I can't take it with me when
I die and I could be gettin' the use of it now while I need it. I could have what I want to
eat, anyway. I'm gettin' a little pension, but it ain't near enough to keep us. I've got these
two grandchillen here, and things is so high, too, so I don't have enough of anything without
skimpin' all the time.

420312

     ELVIRA BOLES, 94, has outlived nine of her ten children. She lives
     at 3109 Manzana St., El Paso, Texas, with her daughter, Minnie. She
     was born a slave of the Levi Ray family near Lexington,
     Mississippi, and was sold as a child to Elihn Boles, a neighboring
     plantation owner. During the last year of the Civil War she was
     brought to Texas, with other refugee slaves.

"I jus' 'member my first marster and missus, 'cause she don' want me there. I'se a child of
the marster. Dey didn' tell me how old I was when dey sold me to Boles. My missus sold me to
Boles. Dey tuk us to where dere was a heap of white folks down by the court house and we'd
be there in lots and den de whites 'ud bid for us. I don' know how old I was, but I washed
dishes and den dey put me to work in de fields. We don' git a nickel in slavery.

"Marster Boles didn' have many slaves on de farm, but lots in brickyard. I toted brick back
and put 'em down where dey had to be. Six bricks each load all day. That's de reason I ain't
no 'count, I'se worked to death. I fired de furnace for three years. Stan'in' front wid hot
fire on my face. Hard work, but God was wid me. We'd work 'till dark, quit awhile after sundown.
Marster was good to slaves, didn' believe in jus' lashin' 'em. He'd not be brutal but he'd
kill 'em dead right on the spot. Overseers 'ud git after 'em and whop 'em down.

"I'se seventeen, maybe, when I married to slave of Boles. Married on Saturday night. Dey give
me a dress and dey had things to eat, let me have something like what you call a party. We
just had common clothes on. And then I had to work every day. I'd leave my baby cryin' in de
yard and he'd be cryin', but I couldn' stay. Done everything but split rails. I've cut timber
and ploughed. Done everything a man could do. I couldn' notice de time, but I'd be glad to
git back to my baby.

"Log cabins had dirt floor, sometimes plankin' down. I worked late and made pretty quilts.
Sometimes dey'd let us have a party. Saturday nights, de white people give us meat and stuff.
Give us syrup and we'd make candy, out in de yard. We'd ask our frien's and dance all night.
Den go to work next day. We'd clean off de yard and dance out dere. Christmas come, dey give
us a big eggnog and give us cake. Our white folks did. White folks chillen had bought candy.
We didn' git any, but dey let us play wid de white chillen. We'd play smut. Whoever beat wid
de cards, he'd git to smut you. Take de smut from fireplace and rub on your face.

"Doctor take care of us iffen we sick, so's git us well to git us to work.

"Iffen dey had a pretty girl dey would take 'em, and I'se one of 'em, and my oldest child,
he boy by Boles, almost white.

"We had to steal away at night to have church on de ditch bank, and crawl home on de belly.
Once overseers heered us prayin', give us one day each 100 lashes.

"Den when de Yankees come through, dey 'ud be good to de slaves, to keep 'em from tellin' on
'em. Freedom was give Jan. 1, 1865, but de slaves didn' know it 'till June 19. We'se refugees.
Boles, our marster, sent us out and we come from Holmes County to Cherokee County in a wagon.
We was a dodgin' in and out, runnin' from de Yankees. Marster said dey was runnin' us from
de Yankees to keep us, but we was free and didn' know it. I lost my baby, its buried somewhere
on dat road. Died at Red River and we left it. De white folks go out and buy food 'long de
road and hide us. Dey say we'd never be free iffen dey could git to Texas wid us, but de people
in Texas tol' us we's free. Den marster turn us loose in de world, without a penny. Oh, dey
was awful times. We jus' worked from place to place after freedom.

"When we started from Mississippi, dey tol' us de Yankees 'ud kill us iffen dey foun' us, and
dey say, 'You ain't got no time to take nothin' to whar you goin'. Take your little bundle
and leave all you has in your house.' So when we got to Texas I jus' had one dress, what I
had on. Dat's de way all de cullud people was after freedom, never had nothin' but what had
on de back. Some of dem had right smart in dere cabins, but they was skeered and dey lef' everything.
Bed clothes and all you had was lef'. We didn' know any better den."

420102

     BETTY BORMER, 80, was born a slave to Col. M.T. Johnson, who farmed
     at Johnson Station in Tarrant County. He owned Betty's parents,
     five sisters and four brothers, in addition to about 75 other
     slaves. After the family was freed, they moved with the other
     slaves to a piece of land Col. Johnson allowed them the use of
     until his death. Betty lives in a negro settlement at Stop Six, a
     suburb of Fort Worth.

"I'se bo'n April 4th, in 1857, at Johnson Station. It was named after my marster. He had a
big farm, I'se don' know how many acres. He had seven chillen; three boys, Ben, Tom and Mart,
and four girls, Elizabeth, Sally, Roddy and Veanna.

"Marster Johnson was good to us cullud folks and he feeds us good. He kep' lots of hawgs, dat
makes de meat. In de smokehouse am hung up meat enough for to feed de army, it looks like.
We'uns have all de clothes we need and dey was made on de place. My mammy am de sewing woman
and my pappy am de shoemaker. My work, for to nuss de small chillen of de marster.

"On Sat'day we's let off work and lots de time some of us come to Fort Worth wid de marster
and he gives us a nickel or a dime for to buy candy.

"Dey whips de niggers sometimes, but 'twarn't hard. You know, de nigger gits de devilment in
de head, like folks do, sometimes, and de marster have to larn 'em better. He done dat hisself
and he have no overseer. No nigger tried run away, 'cause each family have a cabin wid bunks
for to sleep on and we'uns all live in de quarters. Sich nigger as wants to larn read and write,
de marster's girls and boys larns 'em. De girls larned my auntie how to play de piano.

"Dere am lots of music on dat place; fiddle, banjo and de piano. Singin', we had lots of dat,
songs like Ole Black Joe and 'ligious songs and sich. Often de marster have we'uns come in
his house and clears de dinin' room for de dance. Dat am big time, on special occasion. Dey
not calls it 'dance' dem days, dey calls it de 'ball.'

"Sho', we'uns goes to church and de preacher's name, it was Jack Ditto.

"Durin' de war, I notices de vittles am 'bout de same. De soldiers come dere and dey driv'
off over de hill some of de cattle for to kill for to eat. Once dey took some hosses and I
hears marster say dem was de Quantrell mens. Dey comes several times and de marster don' like
it, but he cain't help it.

"When freedom come marster tells all us to come to front of de house. He am standin' on de
porch. Him 'splains 'bout freedom and says, 'You is now free and can go whar you pleases.'
Den he tells us he have larned us not to steal and to be good and we'uns should 'member dat
and if we'uns gets in trouble to come to him and he will help us. He sho' do dat, too, 'cause
de niggers goes to him lots of times and he always helps.

"Marster says dat he needs help on de place and sich dat stays, he'd pay 'em for de work. Lots
of dem stayed, but some left. To dem dat leaves, marster gives a mule, or cow and sich for
de start. To my folks, marster gives some land. He doesn't give us de deed, but de right to
stay till he dies.

"Sho', I seen de Klux after de war but I has no 'sperience wid 'em. My uncle, he gits whipped
by 'em, what for I don' know 'zactly, but I think it was 'bout a hoss. Marster sho' rave 'bout
dat, 'cause my uncle weren't to blame.

"When de Klux come de no 'count nigger sho make de scatterment. Some climb up de chimney or
jump out de winder and hide in de dugout and sich.

"De marster dies 'bout seven years after freedom and everybody sorry den. I never seen such
a fun'ral and lots of big men from Austin comes. He was de blessed man!

"I married de second year after de T.P. railroad come to Fort Worth, to Sam Jones and he work
on de Burk Burnett stock ranch. I'se divorseted from him after five years and den after 12
more years I marries Rubbin Felps. My las' husban's named Joe Borner, but I'se never married
to the father of my only chile. His name am George Pace.

"I allus gits long fair, 'cause after freedom I keeps on workin' doin' de nussin'. Now I'se
gittin' 'leven dollars from de state for pension, and gits it every month so now I'se sho'
of somethin' to eat and dat makes me happy.

420289

     HARRISON BOYD, 87, was born in Rusk County, Texas, a slave of Wash
     Trammel. Boyd remained with his master for four years after
     emancipation, then moved to Harrison County, where he now lives.
     His memory is poor, but he managed to recall a few incidents.

"I was fifteen years when they says we're free. That's the age my Old Missy done give me when
the war stopped. She had all us niggers' ages in a book, and told me I was born near Henderson.
My Old Marse was Wash Trammel and he brunged me and my mama and papa from Alabama. Mama was
named Juliet and papa, Amos. Marse Trammel owned my grandpa and grandma, too, and they was
named Jeanette and Josh.

"The plantation was two made into one, and plenty big, and more'n a hundred slaves to work
it. Marse lived in a hewed log house, weather-boarded out and in, and the quarters was good,
log houses with bed railin's hewed out of logs. We raised everything we et, 'cept sugar, and
Marse bought that in big hogsheads. We got our week's rations every Sunday, and when we went
to eat, everybody's part was put out to them on a tin plate.

"Marse Trammel give a big cornshucking every fall. He had two bottom fields in corn. First
we'd gather peas and cushaws and pumpkins out the corn field, then get the corn and pile it
front the cribs. They was two big cribs for the corn we kep' to use and five big cribs for
sale corn. My uncle stayed round the sale corn cribs all spring, till ginnin' time, 'cause
folks come for miles after corn. Marse had five wheat cribs and one rye crib. We went ten mile
to Tatum to git our meal and flour ground.

"The patterrollers darsn't come 'bout our place or bother us niggers. Marse Wash allus say,
'I'll patterroller my own place.' Marse was good to us and only once a overseer beat a woman
up a trifle, and Marse Trammel fired him that same day.

"The sojers 'fiscated lots of corn from Marse and some more owners in Rusk County piled corn
up in a big heap and made me go mind it till the rest the sojers got there. I was settin' top
that corn pile, me and my big bulldog, and the General rode up. My dog growled and I made him
hush. The General man say to me, 'Boy, you is 'scused now, go on home.' I got to a fence and
looked back, and that General was hewin' him a hoss trough out a log. The sojers come in droves
and set up they camp. I sot on a stump and watched them pass. They stayed three, four days
till the corn was all fed up.

"While they's camped there they'd cotch chickens. They had a fishin' pole and line and hook.
They'd put a grain of corn on the hook and ride on they hoss and pitch the hook out 'mong the
chickens. When a chicken swallowed the corn they'd jerk up the line with that chicken and ride off.

"Marse had six hundred bales cotton in the Shreveport warehouse when war was over. He got word
them Yankees done take it on a boat. He got his brother to take him to Shreveport and say,
'I'll follow that cotton to Hell and back.' He followed his cotton to Alabama and got it back,
but he died and was buried there in Alabama 'fore Old Missy knowed it.

"I stayed with her four years after surrender and then went to farmin' with my folks, for $10.00
a month. After a year or two I went to railroadin', helping cut the right-of-way for the T.&
P. Railroad, from Marshall to Longview. They paid us $1.50 the day and three drinks of whiskey
a day.

"I marries four times but had only one child, but I never done nothin' 'citin'. I lives by
myself now, and gits $11.00 pension to eat on.

420074

     ISSABELLA BOYD was born a slave of Gus Wood, in Richmond, Va., who
     moved to Texas by boat before the Civil War. Isabella still lives
     in Beaumont.

"Lemme see, I come from Richmond, Virginy, to Texas. Massa Gus Wood was my owner and I kin
recollect my white folks. I's born in dat country and dey brought me over to Richmond and my
papa and mama, too. I was jus' 'bout big 'nough to begin to 'member.

"I come from Richmond yere on de boat, sometime de steamboat, sometime de big boat. When we
left New Orleans dat evenin' we struck a big storm. Us git on dat boat in Richmond and went
floatin' down to de big boat dat mornin'. Looks like it jus' fun for us, but every time we
look back and think 'bout home it make us sad.

"I had a dear, good mistus and my boss man, he furnish a house for he servants, a purty good
house. And dey had a place for de Sunday School. Dem was good times. De mistus cook dinner
and send it down for de old folks and chillen to have plenty.

"My mistus kep' me right in de house, right by her, sewing. I could sew so fast I git my task
over 'fore de others git started good.

"Lots of times when de gals wants to go to de dance I he'p make de dresses. I 'member de pretties'
one like yesterday. It have tucks from de waist to de hem and had diamonds cut all in de skirt.

"Our boss man was 'ticular 'bout us being tended to and we was well took care of. He brung
us to Beaumont when it was de plumb mud hole, and he settle down and try to build up and make
it a go.

"Massa Wood he allus takes de paper and one night they set up da long time and do dey readin'.
Next mornin' de old cook woman, she say, 'Well, dey have de big war, and lots of dem wounded.'
Befo' long us has to take care of some dem wounded soldiers, and dey has de camp place near
us. Dey all camp 'round dere and I don't know which was de Yankees and de 'federates.

"When we all gits free, dey's de long time lettin' us know. Dey wants to git through with de
corn and de cotton befo' dey let's de hands loose. Dey was people from other plantations say.
'Niggers, you's free and yere you workin'.' Us say, 'No, de gov'ment tell us when we's free.'
We workin' one day when somebody from Massa Grissom place come by and tell us we's free, and
us stop workin'. Dey tell us to go on workin' and de boss man he come up and he say he gwine
knock us off de fence if we don't go to work. Mistus come out and say, 'Ain't you gwine make
dem niggers go to work?' He send her back in de house and he call for de carriage and say he
goin' to town for to see what de gov'ment goin' do. Nex' day he come back and say, 'Well, you's
jus' as free as I is.'

"He say to me I could stay and cook for dem, and he give me five dollar a month and a house
to stay in and all I kin eat. I stays de month to do dere work.

"After dat I wishes sometimes dat old times is back 'gain. I likes to be free, but I wasn't
used to it and it was hard to know how to do. I 'members de dances we has in de old times,
when we makes de music with banjo and other things. Some de good massas 'lowed de niggers dance
in de back yard and if we goes over dere without de pass de patterroles gits us maybe. One
time my papa he runnin' from dem patterroles and he run slap into de young massa and he say,
'Oh, you ain't no nigger, I kin tell by de smell.'

"Dat mind me of de ghost story dey used to tell 'bout de ghosties what live in de big bridge
down in de hollow. De niggers day say dat ghostie make too much noise, with all he hollerin'
and he rattlin' dem chain. So dat night one us niggers what dey call Charlie, he say he ain't
'fraid and he gwineter git him a ghostie, sho' 'nough. Us didn't believe him but purty soon
us hears right smart wrastlin' with de chains and hollerin' down by de bridge and after 'while
he come and say he git de best of dat ghostie, 'cause he ain't got strength like de man.

"Me and my old man us have twelve chillens altogedder. My husban' he come from South Car'lina
whar dey eats cottonseed. I used to joke him 'bout it. I allus say Virginny de best, 'cause
I come from dere.

420039

     JAMES BOYD was born in Phantom Valley, Indian Territory, in an
     Indian hut. A man named Sanford Wooldrige stole him and brought him
     to Texas, somewhere near Waco. James does not know his age, but
     thinks he is a hundred years or more old. He now lives in Itasca,
     Texas.

"I's born in dat Phantom Valley, in de Indian Territory, what am now call Oklahoma. Us live
in a Indian hut. My pappy Blue Bull Bird and mammy Nancy Will. She come to de Indian Territory
with Santa Anna, from Mississippi, and pappy raise in de Territory. I don' 'member much 'bout
my folks, 'cause I stole from dem when I a real li'l feller. I's a-fishin' in de Cherokee River
and a man name Sanford Wooldrige come by. You see, de white folks and de Indians have de fight
'bout dat day. I's on de river and I heared yellin' and shootin' and folkses runnin' and I
slips into some bresh right near. Den come de white man and he say, 'Everybody kilt, nigger,
and dem Indians gwine kill you iffen day cotch you. Come with me and I ain't 'low dem hurt
you.' So I goes with him.

"He brung me to Texas, but I don't know jus' where, 'cause I didn't know nothin' 'bout dat
place. Massa Sanford good to us, but look out for he missus, she sho' tough on niggers. Dere
'bout 1,600 acres in de plantation and de big house am nice. When de niggers wouldn't work
dey whup 'em. Us work all week and sometime Sunday, iffen de crops in a rush. Massa not much
on presents or money but us have warm clothes and plenty to eat and de dry place to live, and
dat more'n lots of niggers has now.

"Sometime us have de corn huskin' and dere a dollar for de one what shuck de mos' corn. Us
have de big dance 'bout twict a year, on Christmas and sometime in de summer. When de white
folks have dere big balls us niggers cook and watch dem dance. Us have fun den.

"I likes to think of dem times when us fish all de hot day or hunts or jus' lazed 'round when
de crops am laid by. I likes to shet de eyes and be back in old times and hear 'em sing, "Swing,
low, Sweet Chariot." I can't sing, now you knows can't no old man sing what ain't got no teef
or hair. I used to like to swing dat 'Ginia Reel and I's spry and young den.

"Dere's lots I can't 'member, 'cause my mem'ry done gone weak like de res' of me, but I 'member
when us free us throw de hats in de air and holler. Old massa say, 'How you gwine eat and git
clothes and sech?' Den us sho' scairt and stays with us white folks long as us can. But 'bout
a year after dat I gits de job punchin' cattle on a ranch in South Texas. I druv cattle into
Kansas, over what de white folks calls de Chissum Trail. I worked lots of cattle and is what
dey call a top hand. I's workin' for Massa Boyd den, and he gits me to drive some cattle to
Mexico. He say he ain't well no more and for me to sell de cattle and send him de money and
git de job down dere. I goes on down to Mexico and do what he say. I marries a gal name Martina
in 1869, down in Matamoras. Us have four chillen and she die. Dat break me up and I drifts
back to Huntsville.

"I done change my name from Scott Bird, what it am up in de Territory, and make it James Boyd,
'cause I done work for Massa Boyd. I's gwine be 'bout 108 year old in next January, iffen de
Lawd spare me dat long.

"After I been in Huntsville awhile, I marries Emma Smith but us only stay together 'bout a
year and a half. Wasn't no chillen. Den I drifts to Fort Bend County and dere I marries Mary
McDowd and us have two chillen. She die with de yellow fever and off I goes for Burleson County.
Dere I marries Sally McDave and she quits me after us have three chillen. Down in old Washington
County I marries Frances Williams and us lived together till 1900. Dere am no chillen dere.
Den I goes to Austin after she die and marries Eliza Bunton in 1903. Us have eight chillen
and she die in 1911. Den I comes to Hill County and marries Mittie Cahee in 1916. She quit
me. In 1924 I marries Hegar Price clost to Milford. Us live together now, in Itasca. Us didn't
have no chillen, but dat don't matter, 'cause I's de daddy of 'bout twenty already.

"I mos' allus wore de black suit when I marries. Jes' seemed more dressed up like. Some my
wives wear white and some colors, didn't make much diff'rence, so dey a likely lookin' gal
for me. Sometime it am a preacher and sometime it am Jestice of Peace, but de fust time it
am Catholic and priest and all.

"Talkin' 'bout all dis marryin', I mos' forgit to show you my scar. I fit in dat freedom war
'long side Massa Sanford and got shot. Dat bullet go through de breast and out de back and
keep me six months in de bed. De fust battle I's in am at Halifax, in North Car'lina. Us git
de news of freedom when us at Vicksburg, in Mississippi. Mos' us niggers 'fraid say much. De
new niggers 'spect de gov'ment give dem de span of mules and dey be rich and not work. But
dey done larn a lot dese past years. Us am sho' slaves now to hard work, and lucky iffen us
git work. Lots dem niggers figgers dey'd git dere massa's land, but dey didn't. Dey oughta
of knowed dey wouldn't. Warn't no plantation ever divided I knowed of, but some de massas give
de oldest slaves a li'l piece land.

"After de cattle days done gone, I farms in Hill County. I works twelve year for Massa Claude
Wakefield, right near Milford, too. De old man ain't due to live nowhere long and I's gittin'
'bout ready to cross de river. I's seed a heap of dis here earth and de people in it, but I
tells you it am sho' hard time now. Us is old and cripple' and iffen de white folks don't holp
us I don't know what us gwine do.

"Some dese young niggers gone plumb wild with dere cigars and cars and truckin' and jazzin'
and sech. Some go to school and larn like white folks and teach and be real helpful. But talk
'bout workin' in slave time--'twarn't so hard as now. Den you fuss 'cause dere's work, now
you fuss 'cause dere ain't no work. But den us have somethin' to eat and wear and a place to
sleep, and now us don't know one day what gwine fill us tomorrow, or nothin'.

"I'd sho' like to shake Massa Boyd's hand again and hear him come singin' down de lane. Us
hear him sing or whistle long 'fore he git dere and it mighty good to see him. De slaves allus
say, 'I's gwine 'way tomorrow,' and I guess I's gwine 'way pretty soon tomorrow.

420195

     JERRY BOYKINS, spry and jolly at the age of 92, lived with his aged
     wife in their own cabin at 1015 Plum St., Abilene, Texas. He was
     born a slave to John Thomas Boykin, Troupe Co., Georgia, 80 miles
     from Lagrange, Ga. His master was a very wealthy plantation owner,
     working 1,000 slaves.

"I been well taken care of durin' my life. When I was young I lived right in de big house with
my marster. I was houseboy. My mother's name was Betsy Ann Boykin and she was cook for Old
Missus. My grandpa was blacksmith. I slept on a pallet in de kitchen and in winter time on
cold nights I 'members how cold I would get. I'd wake up and slip in by marsters bed and den
I'd say, 'Marster John, I's about to freeze.' He'd say, 'You ought to freeze, you little black
devil. What you standin' dere for?' I'd say, 'Please, marster John, jes' let me crawl in by
your feet.' He'd say, 'Well, I will dis one time,' and dat's de way I'd do every cold night.

"I was full of mischief and I'd tu'n de mules out of de lot, jus' to see de stableboy git a
lickin'. One time I wanted a fiddle a white man named Cocoanut Harper kep' tryin' to sell me
for $7.50. I didn' never have any money, 'cept a little the missie give me, so I kep' teasin'
her to buy de fiddle for me. She was allus on my side, so she tol' me to take some co'n from
de crib and trade in for de fiddle. In de night I slips out and hitch up de mules and fetched
de co'n to old Harper's house and traded for dat fiddle. Den I hides out and play it, so's
marster wouldn' fin' out, but he did and he whip all de daylight outta me. When de missie try
to whip me, I jes' wrop up in her big skirts and she never could hurt me much.

"I allus ate my meals in de house at de white folks table, after dey done et. Iffen I couldn'
sit in de marster's chair, I'd swell up like a toad.

"De marster done all de whippin', 'cause dey had been two overseers killed on de plantation
for whippin' slaves till de blood run out dey body.

"Was I bovered with haints and spooks? I been meetin' up with 'em all my life. When I was younger
I was such an old scratch I'd meet 'em right in de road, some without heads. I'd take to my
heels and then I'd stop and look 'round and they'd be gone.

"I wore home-weaved shirts till I was grown, then I had some pants and dey was homemade, too.
The women gathered womack leaves to dye de goods black.

"I well rec'lects when my marster went to war. He called all us in de kitchen and telled us
he had to go over dere and whip those sons-of-bitches and would be back 'fore breakfast. He
didn' return for two years. I says, 'Marster, we sho' would have waited breakfast on you a
long time.' He said, 'Yes; deys de hardes' sons-of-bitches to whip I ever had dealins' with.'

"When war was over, he called us together and tol' us we were free. He said, 'Now, I'm goin'
to give you a big day and after that you can stay and work for pay or you can go.' So he rolled
out two barrels of whiskey and killed hogs and spread a big day.

"I wants to tell you 'bout how we killed hogs in my day. We digged a deep pit in de groun'
and heated big rocks red hot and filled up de pit with water and dropped dem hot rocks in and
got de water hot; den we stuck de hogs and rolled 'em in dat pit.

"Soon after I's free a man come for me from Louisville to hire me as foreman in his cotton
mule barn. So I went there and I worked in Kentucky for 18 year. Fifty-one years ago I married
my ol' woman, Rachel Taylor, at Corsicana, Texas, and I think she's jes' as fine as the day
I married her. We has six chillen and all works hard for a livin' and we got one lil' grandbaby
10 years ol'. She lives here at our house and we're educatin' her.

"I knows I's goin' to live to be over 100 years ol', 'cause my marster done tol' me so."

420073

     MONROE BRACKINS, born in Monroe Co., Mississippi, in 1853, was the
     property of George Reedes. He was brought to Medina County, Texas,
     when two years old. Monroe learned to snare and break mustangs and
     became a cowpuncher. He lives in Hondo, Texas. He has an air of
     pride and self-respect, and explained that he used little dialect
     because he learned to talk from the "white folks" as he was growing
     up.

"I was bo'n in Mississippi, Monroe County. I'm 84 years old. My master, George Reedes, brought
me, my father and mother and my two sisters to Texas when I was two years old. My father was
Nelson Brackins and my mother was Rosanna.

"My master settled here at a place called Malone, on the Hondo River. He went into the stock
business. Our house there was a little, old picket house with a grass roof over it out of the
sage grass. The bed was made with a tick of shucks and the children slept on the floor. The
boss had just a little lumber house. Later on he taken us about 20 miles fu'ther down on the
Hondo, the Old Adams Ranch, and he had a rock house.

"I was about six years old then. I had some shoes, to keep the thorns outa my feet, and I had
rawhide leggin's. We just had such clothes as we could get, old patched-up clothes. They just
had that jeans cloth, homemade clothes.

"I was with George Reedes 10 or 12 years. It was my first trainin' learnin' the stock business
and horse breakin.' He was tol'able good to us, to be slaves as we was. His brother had a hired
man that whipped me once, with a quirt. I've heard my father and mother tell how they whipped
'em. They'd tie 'em down on a log or up to a post and whip 'em till the blisters rose, then
take a paddle and open 'em up and pour salt in 'em. Yes'm, they whipped the women. The most
I remember about that, my father and sister was in the barn shuckin' co'n and the master come
in there and whipped my sister with a cowhide whip. My father caught a lick in the face and
he told the master to keep his whip offen him. So the master started on my father and he run
away. When he finally come in he was so wild his master had to call him to get orders for work,
and finally the boss shot at him, but they didn't whip him any more. Of course, some of 'em
whipped with more mercy. They had a whippin' post and when they strapped 'em down on a log
they called it a 'stroppin' log.'

"I remember they tasked the cotton pickers in Mississippi. They had to bring in so many pounds
in the evenin' and if they didn't they got a whippin' for it. My sister there, she had to bring
in 900 pounds a day. Well, cotton was heavier there. Most any of 'em could pick 900 pounds.
It was heavier and fluffier. We left the cotton country in Mississippi, but nobody knew anything
about cotton out here that I knew of.

"I've heard my parents say too, them men that had plantations and a great lot of slaves, they
would speculate with 'em and would have a chain that run from the front ones to the back ones.
Sometimes they would have 15 or 20 miles to make to get them to the sale place, but they couldn't
make a break. Where they expected to make a sale, they kept 'em in corrals and they had a block
there to put 'em up on and bid 'em off. The average price was about $500, but some that had
good practice, like a blacksmith, brought a good price, as high as $1,500.

"I heard my mother and father say they would go 15 or 20 miles to a dance, walkin', and get
back before daylight, before the 'padderollers' got 'em. The slaves would go off when they
had no permission and them that would ketch 'em and whip 'em was the 'padderollers.' Sometimes
they would have an awful race.

"If they happened to be a slave on the plantation that could jes' read a little print, they
would get rid of him right now. He would ruin the niggers, they would get too smart. The' was
no such thing as school here for culluds in early days. The white folks we was raised up with
had pretty good education. That's why I don't talk like most cullud folks. I was about grown
and the' was an English family settled close, about half a mile, I guess. They had a little
boy, his name was Arthur Ederle, and he come over and learned me how to spell 'cat' and 'dog'
and 'hen' and such like. I was right around about 20 years old. I couldn't sign my name when
I was 18 years old.

"I can remember one time when I was young, I saw something I couldn't 'magine what it was,
like a billygoat reared up on a tree. But I knew the' wasn't a billygoat round there near,
nor no other kinds of goats. It was in the daytime and I was out in a horse pasture, I was
jes' walkin' along, huntin', when I saw that sight. I guess I got within 50 steps of it, then
I turned around and got away. I never did think much about a ghost, but I think it could be
possible.

"I don't remember scarcely anything about the war because I was so little and times was so
different; the country wasn't settled up and everything was wild, no people, hardly. Of course,
my life was in the woods, you might say, didn't hardly know when Sunday come.

"The northern soldiers never did get down in here that I know of. I know once, when they was
enlisting men to go to battle a whole lot of 'em didn't want to fight and would run away and
dodge out, and they would follow 'em and try to make 'em fight. They had a battle up here on
the Nueces once and killed some of 'em. I know my boss was in the bunch that followed 'em and
he got scared for fear this old case would be brought up after the war. The company that followed
these men was called Old Duff Company. I think somewhere around 40 was in the bunch that they
followed, but I don't know how many was killed. They was a big bluff and a big water hole and
they said they was throwed in that big water hole.

"We had possums and 'coons to eat sometimes. My father, he gen'rally cooked the 'coons, he
would dress 'em and stew 'em and then bake 'em. My mother wouldn't eat them. There was plenty
of rabbits, too. Sometimes when they had potatoes they cooked 'em with 'em. I remember one
time they had just a little patch of blackhead sugar cane. After the freedom, my mother had
a kind of garden and she planted snap beans and watermelons pretty much every year.

"The master fed us tol'bly well. Everything was wild, beef was free, just had to bring one
in and kill it. Once in awhile, of a Sunday mornin', we'd get biscuit flour bread to eat. It
was a treat to us. They measured the flour out and it had to pan out just like they measured.
He give us a little somethin' ever' Christmas and somethin' good to eat. I heard my people
say coffee was high, at times, and I know we didn't get no flour, only Sunday mornin'. We lived
on co'nbread, mostly, and beef and game outta the woods. That was durin' the war and after
the war, too.

"I was around about 6 or 7 years old when we was freed. We worked for George Reedes awhile,
then drifted on down to the Frio river and stayed there about a year, then we come to Medina
County and settled here close to where I was raised. We didn't think it hard times at all right
after the war. The country was wild and unsettled, with ranches 15 or 20 miles apart. You never
did see anybody and we didn't know really what was goin' on in the rest of the country. Sometimes
something could happen in 5 miles of us and we didn't know it for a month.

"I was on the Adams Ranch on the Hondo when my master come out and told us we were as free
as he was. He said we could stay on and work or could go if we wanted to. He gave my mother
and father 50 cents apiece and 25 cents for the children. We stayed awhile and then went west
to the Frio.

"I used to be along with old man Big-foot Wallace in my early days. He was a mighty fine man.
I worked for the people that was gathering stock together there. Big Foot raised nice horses,
old reg'lar Texas horses, and they was better than the reg'lar old Spanish bronco. I used to
go to his camp down on the San Miguel. He lived in one part and his chickens in the rest of
his house. His friends liked to hear him talk about his travels. He used to run stock horses
and had a figger 7 on the left shoulder for his brand and the tip of each ear split was his
earmark.

"The last man I broke horses for was Wilson Bailey. I was there about 12 years. He raised just
cavi-yard--we called it a cavi-yard of horses, just the same thing as a remuda. We called 'em
that later, but we got that from the Spanish. We would get up in a tree with our loop till
the horse come under and drop it down on him. When they were so spoilt, we got 'em in a sort
of cavi-yard and drove 'em under trees and caught 'em in a snare. We had lots of wild horses,
just this side of Pearsall. 'Bout the only way I'd get throwed was to get careless. We'd ketch
'im up, hackamore 'im up, saddle 'im up and get on 'im and let 'im go. Sometimes he'd be too
wild to pitch, he'd break and run and you had to let 'im run himself down. I used to rather
ketch up a wild horse and break 'im than to eat breakfast.

"When I first started farmin' I taken up some state land, about 80 acres, down on Black Creek,
in Medina County. I stayed there ten or twelve years. Cotton hadn't got in this country and
I raised some corn, sugar cane and watermelons. I commenced with horses, but 'long 'way down
the line I used oxen some, too. I used one of those old walking plows.

"I sold that place and moved to a place on the Tywaukney Creek (Tonkawa). I come up to church
and met my wife then. Her name was Ida Bradley and I was 38 years old. We lived down on the
Tywaukney right about 23 years and raised our children there. We jes' had a little home weddin'.
I wore a suit, dark suit. We got married about 8 o'clock in the evenin' and we had barbecue,
cake and ice cream. You see, in them times I wasn't taught anything about years and dates,
but I judge it was about 25 years after the war before I settled on the Tywaukney."

420310

     GUS BRADSHAW was born about 1845, at Keecheye, Alabama, a slave of
     David Cavin. He recalls being brought to Texas in the 1850's, when
     the Cavin family settled near old Port Caddo. Gus remained with his
     master for ten years after emancipation. He now lives alone on a
     fifty acre farm seven miles northeast of Marshall, which he bought
     in 1877. Gus receives an $11.00 per month pension.

"I was born at Keecheye, Alabama, and belonged to old man David Cavin. The only statement I
can make 'bout my age is I knows I was 'bout twenty years old when us slaves was freed. I never
knowed my daddy, but my mammy was Amelia Cavin. I's heard her say she's born in Alabama more
times than I got fingers and toes. Our old master brung us to Texas when I's a good sized kid.
I 'members like it am yesterday, how we camped more'n a week in New Orleans. I seed 'em sell
niggers off the block there jus' like they was cattle. Then we came to old Port Caddo on Caddo
Lake and master settles a big farm close to where the boats run. Port Caddo was a big shipping
place then, and Dud and John Perry run the first store there. The folks hauled cotton there
from miles away.

"Mammy's folks was named Maria and Joe Gloster and they come to Texas with the Cavins. My grandma
say to me, 'Gus, don't run you mouth too much and allus have manners to whites and blacks.'
Chillen was raise right then, but now they come up any way. I seed young niggers turn the dipper
up and drink 'fore old folks. I wouldn't dare do that when I's comin' up.

"Maria say to me one day, 'Son, I's here when the stars fell.' She tell me they fell like a
sheet and spread over the ground. Ike Hood, the old blacksmith on our place, he told me, too.
I says, 'Ike, how old was you when the stars fell?' He say, 'I's thirty-two.'

"Massa David had big quarters for us niggers, with chimneys and fireplaces. They use to go
round and pick up old hawg or cow bones to bile with greens and cabbage. They was plenty of
wild game, and deer and wolves howlin' right through this country, but you can't even find
the track of one now.

"The first work I done was pickin' cotton. Every fellow was out at daylight pickin' cotton
or hoein' or plowin'. They was one overseer and two nigger drivers. But at night you could
hear us laughin' and talkin' and singin' and prayin', and hear them fiddles and things playin'.
It look like darkies git 'long more better then than now. Some folks says niggers oughtn't
to be slaves, but I says they ought, 'cause they jus' won't do right onless they is made to do it.

"Massa David allus give us eggnog and plenty good whiskey at Christmas. We had all day to eat
and drink and sing and dance. We didn't git no presents, but we had a good time.

"I don't know much 'bout the war, only Massa Bob Perry come over one day and say to Grandma
Maria, 'They is surrender, Maria, you is free.' She say to him, 'I don't care, I gwine stay
with my white folks.'

"The Klu Klux done lots of cuttin' up round there. Two of 'em come to Dr. Taylor's house. He
had two niggers what run off from the Klux and they want to whip 'em, but Dr. Taylor wouldn't
'low 'em. I knowed old Col. Alford, one of the Klux leaders, and he was a sight. He told me
once, 'Gus, they done send me to the pen for Kluxing.' I say, 'Massa Alford, didn't they make
a gentleman of you?' He say, 'Hell, no!'

"I knowed old Col. Haggerdy, too. He marries a widow of a rich old Indian chief, name McIntosh.
He broke a treaty with his people and had to hide out in a cave a long time, and his wife brung
food to him. One time when she went to the cave he was gone. She knowed then the Indians done
git him and kilt him for vi'latin' the treaty. So she marries old Col. Haggerdy.

"The only time I votes was against whiskey. I voted for it. Some white folks done say they'd
whip me if I voted for it, but Mr. Joe Strickland done told me they jus' tryin' scare me, so
I voted for it. I don't think niggers ought to vote. If some niggers had things in hand 'stead
of white folks, I couldn't stay here. These eddicated niggers am causin' the devilment. The
young niggers ain't got no 'spect for old age.

"I bought and paid for fifty acres land here in Harrison County and I has lived on it sixty
years. I lived with my wife fifty years 'fore she died and done raise two chillen. These young
niggers don't stay married fifty days, sometimes. I don't mess with 'em, but if I needs help
I goes to the white folks. If you 'have youself, they allus help you if you needs it.

420240

     WES BRADY, 88, was born a slave of John Jeems, who had a farm five
     miles north of Marshall. Wes has farmed in Harrison County all his
     life. He now lives with friends on the Long's Camp Road, and draws
     a $11.00 monthly pension.

"I was born and raised in Harrison County, and I was eighty-eight years old this July past
and has wore myself out here in this county. I was born on Massa John Jeem's place, on the
old Jefferson Road, and my father was Peter Calloway, and he was born in Alabama and his whole
fam'ly brought to Texas by nigger traders. My mother was Harriet Ellis and I had two brothers
named George and Andrew, and four sisters, Lula and Judy and Mary and Sallie. My old Grandpa
Phil told me how he helped run the Indians off the land.

"Grandpa Phil told me 'bout meetin' his massa. Massa Jeems had three or four places and grandpa
hadn't seed him and he went to one of the other farms and meets a man goin' down the road.
The man say, 'Who you belong to?' Grandpa Phil say, 'Massa Jeems.' The man say, 'Is he a mean
man?' Grandpa say, 'I don't know him, but they say he's purty tight.' It was Massa Jeems talkin'
and he laughs and gives Grandpa Phil five dollars.

"We niggers lived in log houses and slep' on hay mattress with lowell covers, and et fat pork
and cornbread and 'lasses and all kinds garden stuff. If we et flour bread, our women folks
had to slip the flour siftin's from missy's kitchen and darsn't let the white folks know it.
We wore one riggin' lowell clothes a year and I never had shoes on till after surrender come.
I run all over the place till I was a big chap in jes' a long shirt with a string tied round
the bottom for a belt. I went with my young massa that way when he hunted in the woods, and
toted squirrels for him.

"Some white folks might want to put me back in slavery if I tells how we was used in slavery
time, but you asks me for the truth. The overseer was 'straddle his big horse at three o'clock
in the mornin', roustin' the hands off to the field. He got them all lined up and then come
back to the house for breakfas'. The rows was a mile long and no matter how much grass was
in them, if you leaves one sprig on your row they beats you nearly to death. Lots of times
they weighed cotton by candlelight. All the hands took dinner to the field in buckets and the
overseer give them fifteen minutes to git dinner. He'd start cuffin' some of them over the
head when it was time to stop eatin' and go back to work. He'd go to the house and eat his
dinner and then he'd come back and look in all the buckets and if a piece of anything that
was there when he left was et, he'd say you was losin' time and had to be whipped. He'd drive
four stakes in the ground and tie a nigger down and beat him till he's raw. Then he'd take
a brick and grind it up in a powder and mix it with lard and put it all over him and roll him
in a sheet. It'd be two days or more 'fore that nigger could work 'gain. I seed one nigger
done that way for stealin' a meat bone from the meathouse. That nigger got fifteen hundred
lashes. The li'l chaps would pick up egg shells and play with them and if the overseer seed
them he'd say you was stealin' eggs and give you a beatin'. I seed long lines of slaves chained
together driv by a white man on a hoss, down the Jefferson road.

"The first work I done was drappin' corn, and then cow-pen boy and sheep herder. All us house
chaps had to shell a half bushel corn every night for to feed the sheep. Many times I has walked
through the quarters when I was a little chap, cryin' for my mother. We mos'ly only saw her
on Sunday. Us chillen was in bed when the folks went to the field and come back. I 'members
wakin' up at night lots of times and seein' her make a little mush on the coals in the fireplace,
but she allus made sho' that overseer was asleep 'fore she done that.

"One time the stock got in the field and the overseer 'cuses a old man and jumps on him and
breaks his neck. When he seed the old man dead, he run off to the woods, but massa sent some
nigger after him and say for him to come back, the old man jus' got overhet and died.

"We went to church on the place and you ought to heared that preachin'. Obey your massa and
missy, don't steal chickens and eggs and meat, but nary a word 'bout havin' a soul to save.

"We had parties Saturday nights and massa come out and showed us new steps. He allus had a
extra job for us on Sunday, but he gave us Christmas Day and all the meat we wanted. But if
you had money you'd better hide it, 'cause he'd git it.

"The fightin' was did off from us. My father went to war to wait on Josh Calloway. My father
never come back. Massa Jeems cussed and 'bused us niggers more'n ever, but he took sick and
died and stepped off to Hell 'bout six months 'fore we got free. When we was free, they beat
drums in Marshall. I stayed on 'bout seven months and then my mother and me went to farmin'
for ourselves.

"I wore myself out right in this county and now I'm too old to work. These folks I lives with
takes good care of me and the gov'ment gives me $11.00 a month what I is proud to git.

420165

     JACOB BRANCH, about 86, was a slave of the Van Loos family, in
     Louisiana, who sold him when a baby to Elisha Stevenson, of Double
     Bayou, Texas. Jacob helps his son, Enrichs, farm, and is unusually
     agile for his age. They live in the Double Bayou settlement, near
     Beaumont, Texas.

"I's bought and fotched here to Double Bayou when I's jes' three year old. I and my half-brother,
Eleck, he de baby, was both born in Louisiana on de Van Loos place, but I go by de name of
Branch, 'cause my daddy name Branch. My mama name Renee. Dey split up us family and Elisha
Stevenson buy my mama and de two chillen. I ain't never see my daddy no more and don't 'member
him at all.

"Old 'Lisha Stevenson he a great one for to raise pigs. He sell sometime 500 hawgs at one time.
He take he dogs and drive dem hawgs 'cross de Neches River all by hisself, to sell dem. Dat
how he git money to buy de niggers, sellin' hawgs and cowhides.

"Old massa he sho' a good old man, but de old missy, she a tornado! Her name Miss 'Liza. She
could be terrible mean. But sometime she take her old morrel--dat a sack make for to carry
things in--and go out and come back with plenty joints of sugar cane. She take a knife and
sit on de gallary and peel dat cane and give a joint to every one de li'l chillen.

"Mama, she work up in de big house, doin' cookin' and washin'. Old massa go buy a cullud man
name Uncle Charley Fenner. He a good old cullud man. Massa brung him to de quarters and say,
'Renee, here you husband,' and den he turn to Uncle and say, 'Charley, dis you woman.' Den
dey consider marry. Dat de way dey marry den, by de massa's word. Uncle Charley, he good step-pa
to us.

"De white folks have de good house with a brick chimney. Us quarters de good, snug li'l house
with flue and oven. Dey didn't bother to have much furn'chure, 'cause us in dere only to sleep.
Us have homemake bench and 'Georgia Hoss' bed with hay mattress. All us cookin' and eatin'
done in de kitchen de big house. Us have plenty to eat, too. De smokehouse allus full white
'taters and cracklin's hangin' on de wall. Us git dem mos' any time us want, jes' so long us
didn't waste nothin'. Dey have big jar with buttermilk and 'low us drink all us want.

"Old lady 'Liza, she have three women to spin when she git ready make de clothes for everybody.
Dey spin and weave and make all us clothes. Us all wear shirt tail till us 'bout twelve or
fourteen, boys and gals, too. You couldn't tell us apart.

"Us chillen start to work soon's us could toddle. First us gather firewood. Iffen it freezin'
or hot us have to go to toughen us up. When us git li'l bigger us tend de cattle and feed hosses
and hawgs. By time us good sprouts us pickin' cotton and pullin' cane. Us ain't never idle.
Sometime us git far out in de field and lay down in de corn row and nap. But, Lawdy, iffen
dey cotch you, dey sho' wore you out! Sunday de onliest rest day and den de white folks 'low
us play.

"Massa never whup Uncle Charley, 'cause he good nigger and work hard. It make missy mad and
one time when massa gone she go down in de field. Uncle Charley hoein' corn jes' like massa
done told him, jes' singin' and happy. Old missy she say, 'Nigger, I's sho gwineter whup you.'
He say, 'What for you whup me. I doin' every bit what old massa done tell me.' But missy think
he gittin' it too good, 'cause he ain't never been whupped. She clumb over de fence and start
down de row with de cowhide. Uncle Charley, he ain't even raise he voice, but he cut de las'
weed outen dat corn and commence to wave he hoe in de air, and he say, 'Missy, I ain't 'vise
you come any step closeter.' Dat sho' make her mad, but she 'fraid to do nothin'.

"One time she have 'nother nigger name Charlie. Massa go on de trip and she tell dis Charley
iffen he ain't finish grindin' all de cornmeal by Monday she gwineter give him a t'ousand lashes.
He try, but he ain't able make dat much meal, so come Monday he runned off in de bayou. Dat
night come de big freeze and he down dere with water up to he knees and when massa come home
and go git him, he so froze he couldn't walk. Dey brung him in de kitchen and old missy cuss
him out. Soon's he thaw out, he done die right dere on de spot.

"My pore mama! Every washday old missy give her de beatin'. She couldn't keep de flies from
speckin' de clothes overnight. Old missy git up soon in de mornin', 'fore mama have time git
dem specks off. She snort and say, 'Renee, I's gwineter teach you how to wash.' Den she beat
mama with de cowhide. Look like she cut my mama in two. Many's de time I edges up and tries
take some dem licks off my mama.

"Slavery, one to 'nother, was purty rough. Every plantation have to answer for itself.

"I used to know lots of songs, but I don't know many now. Spiritual songs, dey comes through
visions. Dat's why cullud folks can make dem better dan white folks. I knowed one song what
start out--

"'De Jews done kill pore Jesus, And bury him in de sepulchur; De grave wouldn't hold him, Dey
place guards all 'round him, But de angels move de stone, De Jews done kill pore Jesus, But
de grave it wouldn't hold him.'

"Dey 'nother song what say--

"'Run, sinner, run, Gawd is a-callin' you. Run, sinner, run, De fire'll overtake you.'

"When I 'bout ten dey sets me ginnin' cotton. Old massa he done make de cotton with de hand
crank. It built on a bench like. I gin de cotton by turnin' dat crank. When I gits a lapful
I puts it in de tow sack and dey take it to Miss Susan to make de twine with it. I warm and
damp de cotton 'fore de fireplace 'fore I start ginnin' it.

"Dere school for de white chillen in Double Bayou and I used to go meet de chillen comin' home
and dey stop longside de way and teach me my ABC. Dey done carry me as far as Baker in de book
when old missy find it out and make dem stop. De war comin' on den and us daren't even pick
up a piece of paper. De white folks didn't want us to larn to read for fear us find out things.

"Us livin' down by de Welborn's den and I seed dem haul de logs out of Pine Island to make
dat Welborn house. Old man Hamshire and old man Remington builded dat Welborn house. It 'cross
de bayou, left hand side Smith's ferry. Dat house still standin' in parts.

"One mornin' Eleck and me git up at crack of dawn to milk. All at once come a shock what shake
de earth. De big fish jump clean out de bay and turtles and alligators run out dere ponds.
Dey plumb ruint Galveston! Us runned in de house and all de dishes and things done jump out
de shelf. Dat de first bombardment of Galveston. De sojers put powder under people's houses
and blowin' up Galveston.

"Young massa Shake Stevenson he vol'teer and git kilt somewheres in Virginny. Young massa Tucker
Stevenson, he ain't 'lieve in war and he say he never gwine fight. He hide in de woods so de
conscrip' men can't find him. Old man LaCour come 'round and say he have orders for find Tucker
and bring him in dead or 'live. But 'cause he old massa's friend, he say, 'Why don't you buy
de boy's services off?' So old massa take de boat, 'Catrig,' us calls it, and loads it with
corn and sich and us pole it down to Galveston. De people need dat food so much, dat load supplies
done buy off Massa Tucker from fightin'.

"After war starts lots of slaves runned off to git to de Yankees. All dem in dis part heads
for de Rio Grande river. De Mexicans rig up flat-boats out in de middle de river, tied to stakes
with rope. When de cullud people gits to de rope dey can pull deyself 'cross de rest de way
on dem boats. De white folks rid de 'Merican side dat river all de time, but plenty slaves
git through, anyway.

"I wait on lots of sojers. I have to get smartweed and bile it in salt water to bath dem in.
Dat help de rheumatism. Dem sojers have rheumatism so bad for standin' day and night in de water.

"Us sho' in good health dem days. Iffen a cullud man weak dey move de muscles in he arms, bleed
him and give him plenty bacon and cornbread, and he git so strong he could lift a log. Dey
didn't go in for cuttin', like dey do now. Dey git herbs out de woods, blue mass and quinine
and calomel. I think people jes' die under pills, now. Old lady Field she make medicine with
snakeroot and larkspur and marshroot and redroot.

"After war am over Massa Tucker brung de freedom papers and read dem. He say us all am free
as Hell. Old man Charley so happy he jes' roll on de floor like a hoss and kick he heels. De
nex' mornin' mama start do somethin' and missy cuss her out. I runned to missy and say, 'Us
free as de bird.' She sho' whup me for dat, but no more, 'cause she so mean us all leave.

"Dat funny. Old man LaFour, what de head de patterrollers and so mean, he de first to help
us niggers after freedom. He loan us he ox team and pay Uncle Charley a dollar de day for work
and a dollar every time my mama wash for he wife.

"Old massa and missy split up. She so bad she ain't give him no better show dan she done us.
Old massa gittin' some peaches one day and she come after him with de buggy whip. He git on
he hoss and say, 'Liz, you's gittin' broad as de beef. You too big for me.' She so mad she
spit fire. Lightenin' done kill her, she upstairs and de big streak hits her. It knock her
under de bed.

"De first freedom work I done am pullin' up potato hills at two bits a hunnerd. 'Bout two bits
de most us could make in one day. I work two days to buy mama de turkey hen for Christmas.
Anything mama want I think she got to have. I's growed 'fore I gits much as four bits a day.
I's done earn as much as $1.50 in my time, though.

"When I's 25 year old I marries Betty Baker but she dead now. De Rev. Patterson he marry us.
Us has four chillen livin'. Turah and Renee, dat my gals, and Enrichs and Milton, dat my boys.
Milton work in Houston and Enrich help me farm. I's a Mason 30 year. De lodge split up now,
but it answer.

420069

     WILLIAM BRANCH, born 1850, 322 Utah St., San Antonio, Texas.
     Eyesight is so poor someone must lead him to the store or to
     church. William kneels at his bedside each evening at five and says
     his prayers. In this ceremony he spends a half hour or more
     chanting one Negro spiritual after another.

"Yahsur, I was a slave. I was bo'n May 13, 1850, on the place of Lawyer Woodson in Lunenburg
County, Virginia. It was 'bout 75 miles southwest of Richmond. They was two big plantations,
one on one side the road, yother the yother. My marster owned 75 slaves. He raised tobacco
and cotton. I wukked tobacco sometime, sometime cotton. Dere wasn't no whippin' or switchin'.
We had to wuk hard. Marster Woodson was a rich man. He live in a great big house, a lumber
house painted white. And it had a great big garden.

"De slaves lives in a long string of log houses. Dey had dirt floors and shingle roofs. Marster
Woodson's house was shingle roof too. We had home cured bacon and veg'tables, dried co'n, string
beans and dey give us hoe cakes baked in hot ashes. Dere always was lots of fresh milk.

"How'd us slaves git de clothes? We carded de cotton, den de women spin it on a spinnin' wheel.
After dat day sew de gahment togeddah on a sewin' machine. Yahsur, we's got sewin' machine,
wid a big wheel and a handle. One woman tu'n de handle and de yuther woman do de sewin'.

"Dat's how we git de clothes for de 75 slaves. Marster's clothes? We makes dem for de whole
fam'ly. De missis send de pattren and de slaves makes de clothes. Over nigh Richmond a fren'
of Marster Woodson has 300 slaves. Dey makes all de clothes for dem.

"I was with Marster twel de Yankees come down to Virginia in 1861. De sergeant of de Yankees
takes me up on his hoss and I goes to Washington wid de Yankees. I got to stay dere 'cause
I'd run away from my marster.

"I stay at de house of Marse Frank Cayler. He's an ole time hack driver. I was his houseboy.
I stay dere twel de year 1870, den I goes to Baltimore and jines de United States Army. We's
sent to Texas 'count of de Indians bein' so bad. Dey put us on a boat at Baltimore and we landed
at Galveston.

"Den we marches from Galveston to Fort Duncan. It was up, up, de whole time. We ties our bedclothes
and rolls dem in a bundle wid a strap. We walks wid our guns and bedclothes on our backs, and
de wagons wid de rations follows us. Dey is pulled by mules. We goes 15 miles ev'ry day. We
got no tents, night come, we unrolls de blankets and sleeps under de trees, sometime under
de brush.

"For rations we got canned beans, milk and hardtack. De hard tacks is 3 or 4 in a box, we wets
'em in water and cooks 'em in a skillet. We gits meat purty often. When we camps for de night
de captain say, 'You'all kin go huntin'.' Before we git to de mountains dere's deer and rabbits
and dey ain't no fences. Often in de dark we sees a big animal and we shoots. When we bring
'im to camp, de captain say, 'Iffen de cow got iron burns de rancher gwineter shoot hisself
a nigger scout.' But de cow ain't got no iron, it's--what de name of de cow what ain't feel
de iron? Mavrick, yahsur. We eats lots of dem Mavricks. We's goin' 'long de river bottom, and
before we comes to Fort Duncan we sees de cactus and muskeet. Dere ain't much cattle, but one
colored scout shoots hisself a bear. Den we eats high. Fort Duncan were made of slab lumber
and de roof was gravel and grass.

"Den we's ordered to Fort Davis and we's in de mountains now. Climb, climb all day, and de
Indians give us a fit ev'ry day. We kills some Indians, dey kills a few soldiers. We was at
Fort Clark a while. At Fort Davis I jines de colored Indian Scouts, I was in Capt. George L.
Andrew's Co. K.

"We's told de northern Cheyennes is on a rampus and we's goin' to Fort Sill in Indian Territory.
Before we gits to Fort Concho (San Angelo) de Comanches and de Apaches give us a fit. We fitten'
'em all de time and when we gits away from de Comanches and Apaches we fitten de Cheyennes.
Dey's seven feet tall. Dey couldn't come through that door.

"When we gits to Fort Sill, Gen. Davidson say de Cheyennes is off de reservation, and he say,
'You boys is got to git dem back. Iffen you kill 'em, dey can't git back to de reservation.'
Den we goes scoutin' for de Cheyennes and dey is scoutin' for us. Dey gits us first, on de
Wichita River was 500 of 'em, and we got 75 colored Indian Scouts. Den Red Foot, de Chief of
de Cheyennes, he come to see Capt. Lawson and say he want rations for his Indians. De captain
say he cain't give no rations to Indians off de reservation. Red Foot say he don't care 'bout
no reservation and he say he take what we got. Capt. Lawson 'low we gotter git reinforcements.
We got a guide in de scout troop, he call hisself Jack Kilmartin. De captain say, 'Jack, I'se
in trouble, how kin I git a dispatch to Gen. Davidson?' Jack say, 'I kin git it through.' And
Jack, he crawl on his belly and through de brush and he lead a pony, and when he gits clear
he rides de pony bareback twel he git to Fort Sill. Den Gen. Davidson, he soun' de gin'ral
alarm and he send two companies of cavalry to reinforce us. But de Cheyennes give 'em a fit
all de way, dey's gotter cut dere way through de Cheyennes.

"And Col. Shafter comes up, and goes out in de hills in his shirt sleeves jus' like you's sittin'
dere. Dey's snow on de groun' and de wind's cole, but de colonel don't care, and he say, 'Whut's
dis order Gen. Davidson give? Don' kill de Cheyennes? You kill 'em all from de cradle to de Cross.'

"And den we starts de attack. De Cheyennes got Winchesters and rifles and repeaters from de
government. Yahsur, de government give 'em de guns dey used to shoot us. We got de ole fashion
muzzle loaders. You puts one ball in de muzzle and shove de powder down wid de ramrod. Den
we went in and fit 'em, and 'twas like fightin' a wasp's nest. Dey kills a lot of our boys
and we nearly wipes 'em out. Den we disarms de Cheyennes we captures, and turns dere guns in
to de regiment.

"I come to San Antonio after I'se mustered out and goes to work for de Bell Jewelry Company
and stays dere twel I cain't work no more. Did I like de army? Yahsur, I'd ruthuh be in de
army dan a plantation slave."

420230

     CLARA BRIM, slave of William Lyons of Branch, Louisiana, now lives
     in Beaumont, Texas. The town of Branch was known in slave days as
     Plaquemine Bouley. Clara estimates her age to be 100 or 102, and
     from various facts known to her and her family, this would seem to
     be correct.

"Old massa's name was William Lyons. I didn't have no old missus, 'cause he was a bachelor.
He had a big plantation. I don't know how big but dey somethin' like twenty fam'lies of slaves
and some dem fam'lies had plenty in dem. My ma was Becky Brim and pa, he name Louis Brim. She
come from Old Virginny. Dey work in de field. I had two sister name Cass and Donnie and a brudder
name Washington. He went off to de war. When it break out dey come and take him off to work
in de army. He lost in dat war. He didn't come back. Nobody ever know what happen to him.

"Some de houses log house and some plank, but dey all good. Dey well built and had brick chimneys.
Dey houses what de wind didn't blow in. Us had beds, too, not dem built in de wall. Us sho'
treat good in slavery times, yes, suh. Old massa give us plenty clothes to keep us good and
warm. He sho' did.

"Old massa, he wasn't marry and eat de same things de slaves eat. He didn't work dem in de
heat of de day. 'Bout eleven o'clock, when dat sun git hot, he call dem out de field. He give
dem till it git kind of cool befo' he make dem go back in de field. He didn't have no overseer.
He seed 'bout de plantation hisself. He raise cotton and corn and sweet 'taters and peas and
cane, didn't fool with rice. He didn't go in for oats, neither.

"When Sunday come Old Massa ask who want to go to church. Dem what wants could ride hoss-back
or walk. Us go to de white folks church. Dey sot in front and us sot in back. Us had prayer
meetin', too, reg'lar every week. One old cullud man a sort of preacher. He de leader in 'ligion.

"When de slaves go to work he give dem de task. Dat so much work, so many rows cotton to chop
or corn to hoe. When dey git through dey can do what dey want. He task dem on Monday. Some
dem git through Thursday night. Den dey can hire out to somebody and git pay for it.

"Old Massa even git de preacher for marryin' de slaves. And when a slave die, he git de preacher
and have Bible readin' and prayin'. Mostest de massas didn't do dat-a-way.

"I as big in war time as I is now. I used to do anything in de field what de men done. I plow
and pull fodder and pick cotton. But de hardes' work I ever done am since I free. Old Massa,
he didn't work us hard, noway.

"He allus give us de pass, so dem patterrollers not cotch us. Dey 'bout six men on hoss-back,
ridin' de roads to cotch niggers what out without de pass. Iffen dey cotch him it am de whippin'.
But de niggers on us place was good and civ'lized folks. Dey didn't have no fuss. Old Massa
allus let dem have de garden and dey can raise things to eat and sell. Sometime dey have some
pig and chickens.

"I been marry his' one time and he been dead 'bout forty-one years now. I stay with Old Massa
long time after freedom. In 1913 I come live with my youngest girl here in Beaumont. You see,
I can't 'member so much. I has lived so long my 'memberance ain't so good now.

420248

     SYLVESTER BROOKS, 87, was born in Green County, Alabama, a slave of
     Josiah Collier. The old Negro's memory is poor, but he managed to
     recall a few incidents of slave days. He lives in Mart, Texas.

"I's born 'bout de year 1850, near de Tom Bigbee river in Alabama, on a plantation own by Marse
Josiah Collier. My folks was Henderson and Martha Brooks and I's de only child den.

"Marse Collier owned seventy fam'lies of slaves and dey all lived in dey quarters 'bout a mile
from de big house. When freedom come Marse Collier sent for all de slaves and lines us up in
a row, two deep, and helt up he hands and say, 'Boys, you is free as I is. All of you what
wants to can go, and all of you what wants to can work for me on wages dis year. Next year
I'll give you a crop or work for wages.' Dey all stays but two, and one of dem two my daddy,
and he lef' mammy and six chillen and never come back.

"Us stays on till Marse Collier and Missus both dies, and den stays with he oldes' gal, and
didn't go 'way till we's growed and has fam'lies of our own.

"I 'members best de Fourth of July. De white folks have lots to eat for dem and us and we plays
games and goes swimmin'.

"Next thing I 'members is de patterrollers, 'cause dey whip me every time dey cotches me without
my pass. Dat de way dey make us stay home at night, and it made good niggers out of us, 'cause
we couldn't chase round and git in no meanness.

"Old Marse often told me 'bout de stars fallin'. It was 'long 'bout sundown and growed dark
all a sudden and de chickens goes to roost. Den some stars with long tails 'gins to shoot,
den it look like all de stars had come out of Heaven, and did dey fall! De stars not all what
fell. De white folks and de niggers fell on dere knees, prayin' to Gawd to save dem iffen de
world comin' to a end, and de women folks all run down in de cellar and stayed till mornin'.
Old Marse say it was in 1833, and he say dem stars fall awhile and quit awhile, like de showers
when it rains.

"'Bout a year after freedom Old Marse give us a piece of land for a church and dis was de school,
too. De preacher's name was Christmas Crawford, and dat de reason I 'members it, it so funny
to us. De nigger teacher named Nimron. De niggers has de blueback spellers and larns 'rithmetic,
too.

"On Thanksgivin' Day de niggers goes round to de white folks houses and gives a ser'nade, like dis:

"'De old bee make de honeycomb,
  De young bee make de honey--
  De nigger make de cotton and corn,
  And de white folks git de money.

"'De raccoon he a curious man,
  He never works till dark;
  Nothin' ever 'sturbs he mind,
  Till he hear old Towser bark.'

"Den de white folks asks us in and help ourselves to de cake or wine or whatever dey has, and
we does dis on Christmas, too.

"We had a song we'd sing when we's thinkin' of comin' to Texas:

"'We'll put for de South, for seven-up and loo,
  Chime in, niggers, won't you come 'long, too?
  No use talkin' when de nigger wants to go,
  Where de corn top blossoms and canebrakes grow.
  Come 'long, Cuba, and dance de polka juba,
  Way down South, where de corn tops grow.'

"I'd like to be in old Alabama to die, but Old Marse and Missus gone, and it ain't no use goin'
dere no more.

420014

     DONAVILLE BROUSSARD, a polished gentleman of his race, was the son
     of a mulatto slave of Emilier Caramouche. He was born in 1850, but
     appears vigorous. Light skinned, with blue eyes and a genial
     expression, he gave the story of his life in the French patois
     spoken by Louisiana French Negroes, which has been translated into
     English.

"My mama was daughter of one of the Carmouche boys. One of M'sieur Francois' sons. She call
herself Armance Carmouche. She was house servant for the family and I worked around the house.
I remember my Madame brought me the little basket and it had a strap on it. I put the strap
over the shoulder and went round with the sharp stick and picked up the leaves on the ground
with the stick.

"It was a great house with trees and flowers. Madame liked all clean and pretty. I never worked
hard. The ladies and my mama, too, petted me as if I was the white child.

"M'sieur had a widow sister. She made us learn the prayers. We were glad to go where she was
for she always had something good in her bag for us. I never saw the baptizing. In those days
all the slaves had the religion of the master and the Catholics didn't have no baptizing. They
didn't have to half-drown when they got their religion. The church was 15 or 20 miles off.
The priest came and held Mass for the white folks sometimes.

"I remember one wedding. My aunt got married. M'sieur Caramouche killed a big pig. The white
folks ate in the house. The slaves sat under the trees and ate in the yard. At four o'clock
the justice of the peace came. He was the friend of M'sieur Caramouche. He made my aunt and
the man hold hands and jump over the broom handle. When the priest came he made M'sieur sign
some papers.

"A slave always had to ask M'sieur to marry. He always let the women slaves marry who they
wanted. He didn't loose by that. He was so good the men would come to his plantation.

"We all wore the long chemise. Made out of heavy cloth. They made the cloth on the place and
the women sewed it up. We didn't wear the shoes. We didn't like them when we had them.

"Each slave could have the little garden. They raised vegetables and had a couple of beehives
for the honey.

"When the Yankees came they told us we could be free, but I don't know of any slaves that left.
Old M'sieur died of the fever in the second year of the war. His wife died before he did. No
children. They sold us, the house and everything. M'sieur Cyprien Arceneaux of Lafayette bought
me and Madame Arvillien Bernard of St. Pierre bought the mama. They used to call it St. Pierre.
They call it Carenero now. When war was finished I left M'sieur Arceneaux and lived with mama.

"A year and a half after that the mama married a black man and us three farmed the little farm.
My steppapa didn't like me. I was light. He and me couldn't get along. So when I had 20 years
I left there and hired myself out. I saved till I bought a little piece of land for myself.
Then I married and raised the family. Me and my wife and the children farmed that place up
to ten years ago and then she died. My son farms the place now and I came to Beaumont. I live
with my girl.

"I remember me in time of war we danced. Round dances. We sang and danced La Boulangere in
time of war. De song go:

"'La Boulangere ait ta victoire Et nous, qui sont en guerre, Voici le jour que je dois partir.

"'Mon cher ami, tu pars,
Tu me laisses un enfant dans les bras
   et prend tes armes.
Et moi, je vais dans le moment
   verser des larmes.

"'Quand je serai en le guerre, [Handwritten Note: à la guerre?] Tu serais de garnison, Et tu
m'oublirais moi, Qui serai en les haillons.

"'J'entends le tombour qui m'appelle
   A les points de jour.
Mon cher Armande, si tu m'aimes
Tu penserais à moi, quand tu serais,
   Dans tes plaisir.
Moi--que serai au bout du fusil!'

"I got one real scare. I was with M'sieur Arceneaux in Lafayette. There was the battle. Lots
of fighting. Lots of killing. The Yankees came right inside the house. I stayed hid.

"I don't know whether it's been better since the war. At all times one has his miseries. We
managed to get along on the farm. But now I have nothing. Oh, I don't mean slavery was better
than to be free. I mean times were better.

"The reason I'm so light is, my mama was half-white. My papa was Neville Broussard and he was
all white.

420233

     FANNIE BROWN, aged Negro of Waco, Texas, does not know her age. She
     was born near Richmond, Virginia, a slave of the Koonce family.
     They sold her to Mrs. Margaret Taylor, of Belton, Texas, when
     Fannie was only five years old, and she never saw her mother again.

"I was borned near Richmond, over in Virginy, but Massa Koonce sold me. When I was five year
old he brung me to Belton and sold me to Missy Margaret Taylor, and she kep' me till she died.
I was growed den and sold to Massa Jim Fletcher and dere I stayed till I was freed.

"Dere no spring near Massa Fletcher's place and us have to git water out de well, what dey
call de sweep well. Dey cut down a young saplin' and weight it on one end with rocks and tie
de bucket on a rope on de other end and brace de pole over de well.

"While de big house bein' built dey slep' in a big wagon and cook over a fireplace make out
of rock what us niggers pick up in de woods. Us cook lots of good eatin' out on dat fireplace,
dem wild turkeys and wild meat sho' tasted good.

"Massa trades ten yards of red calico and two hatchets to de Indians for some skins and take
de skins to Austin and traded dem fer de spinnin' wheel and loom, and hauls dem to Belton in
de ox carts.

"My missy larnt me to spin and weave and did dis child git many a whuppin' 'fore I could do
it good. Den she larnt me to cook and start me cookin' two or three days 'fore company come.
Dat when us have de good old pound cake. De li'l chillen stand round when I bake, so as to
git to lick de spoons and pans, and how dey pop dere lips when dey lickin' dat good dough!

"Massa have garden seed he brung to Texas, but he didn't think it would grow, so he kep' it
several months, but den he plants it and up it come, jus' like in de old states. Us used dem
tomatoes for flowers, 'cause us thunk dem pretty red things would kill us or put de spell on
us. But de white folks et dem and us larn to.

"I was growed and have chillen 'fore de freedom war. I never did have no special husban' 'fore
de war. I marries after de war.

"My, how dem niggers could play de fiddle back in de good old days. On de moonlight nights,
us dance by de light of de moon under a big oak tree, till most time to go to work next mornin'.

"De fus' barb wire us ever seen, us scairt of it. Us thunk lightnin' be sho' to strike it.
It sho' keep de stock in, though.

"I seed men ridin' hosses with dead men tied 'cross dey hoss, endurin' de freedom war. But
I can't tell much 'bout dat war, 'cause I couldn't read and I never git any place 'cept home
at my work. I love dem days better dan I do dese times now, but I'm too old to 'member much.

420086

     FRED BROWN, 84, 1414 Jones St., Fort Worth, Texas, was born a slave
     to Mr. John Brown, who owned a plantation along the Mississippi
     River, in Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana. Fred was eight years old
     when the Civil War started. During the War, he and a number of
     other slaves were taken to Kaufman Co., Texas, as refugees, by
     Henry Bidder, an overseer. He worked five years as a laborer after
     he was freed, then worked as a cook until 1933.

"Sho', I has time to talk to you 'bout my life, 'cause I can't work any more and I has nothin'
but time. It am de rhumatis' in de leg, it ketch me dat way, from de hip to de knee,--zip--dat
pain goes!

"I's bo'n in ole Louisiana, in Baton Rouge Parish, on de 16th of November, in 1853. I knows,
'cause massa give dis nigger a statement. You see, dey don' larn de niggers to read in dem
days, nor figger, but I can read figgers. See dem on dat car? Dat am 713. Dat am bad figgers,
I never has any truck with sich numbers as de 7 or de 13.

"Massa have quite pert a plantation in Louisiana, dis side de Mississippi River. De slaves
him own am from 40 to 50 sometimes. In our family am pappy, mammy and three brudders and one
sister, Julia, and six cousins. Dat am 13 and dat's why massa had so much trouble with niggers
runnin' 'way!

"Everyone have dere certain wo'k and duties for to do. Mammy am de family cook and she he'p
at de loom, makin' de cloth. My daddy am de blacksmith and shoemaker and de tanner. I 'spains
how he do tannin.' He puts de hides in de water with black-oak bark and purty soon de hair
come off and den he rolls and poun's de hides for to make dem soft.

"When I's 'bout 8 years old, or sich, dey starts me to he'pin' in de yard and as I grows older
I he'ps in de fields. Massa, him raises cane and co'n mostly, no cotton.

"De buildings on de place am de resident of de massa and de quarters for de niggers. Dey am
built from logs and de quarters has no floors and no windows, jus' square holes whar de windows
ought to be. Dey have bunks for sleepin' and a table and benches, and cooks in de fireplace.

"We allus have plenty for to eat, plenty co'nmeal, 'lasses and heavy, brown sugar. We gits
flour bread once de week, but lots of butter and milk. For de coffee, we roasts meal bran and
for de tea, de sassafras. Den we has veg'tables and fruit dat am raised on de place. De meat
mostly am de wil' game, deer and de turkey, but sometimes hawg meat.

"Massa have overseer and overlooker. De overseer am in charge of wo'k and de overlooker am
in charge of de cullud women. De overseer give all de whippin's. Sometimes when de nigger gits
late, 'stead of comin' home and takin' de whippin' him goes to de caves of de river and stays
and jus' comes in night time for food. When dey do dat, de dawgs is put after dem and den it
am de fight 'tween de nigger and de dawg. Jus' once a nigger kills de dawg with de knife, dat
was close to freedom and it come 'fore dey ketches him. When dey whips for runnin' off, de
nigger am tied down over a barrel and whipped ha'd, till dey draws blood, sometimes.

"Dem fool niggers what sneak off without de pass, have two things for to watch, one is not
to be ketched by de overseer and de other am de patter-rollers. De nigger sho' am skeert of
de patters. One time my pappy and my mammy goes out without de pass and de patters takes after
dem. I'se home, 'cause I's too young to be pesterin' roun'. I sees dem comin,' and you couldn'
catched dem with a jackrabbit. One time anoudder nigger am runnin' from de patters and hides
under de house. Dey fin' him and make him come out. You's seen de dawg quaver when him's col'?
Well, dat nigger have de quaverment jus' like dat. De patters hits him five or six licks and
lets him go. Dat nigger have lots of power--him gits to de quarters ahead of his shadow.

"Now, I tell 'bout some good times. We is 'lowed to have parties and de dance and we has for
music, sich as de banjo and de jew's harp and a 'cordian. Dey dance de promenade and de jeg.
Sometimes day have de jiggin' contest and two niggers puts a glass of water on dere heads and
den see who can dance de longes' without spillin' any water. Den we has log-rollin'. Dere was
two teams, 'bout three to de team, and dey see which can roll de log de fastes'. Den sometimes
a couple am 'lowed to git married and dere am extry fixed for supper. De couple steps over
de broom laid en de floor, dey's married den.

"Sometimes de overlooker don' let dem git married. I 'splains it dis way. He am used for to
father de chillun. Him picks de portly, and de healthy women dat am to rear de portly chillen.
De overlooker, he am portly man. Dem dat him picks he overlooks, and not 'low dem to marry
or to go round with other nigger men. If dey do, its whippin' sho.' De massa raises some fine,
portly chillen, and dey sel' some, after dey's half-grown, for $500 and sometimes more.

"De war didn' make no diff'runce, dat I notices, 'cept massa and one overseer jines de army.
Massa come back, but de overseer am captured by de Yankees, so massa says, and we never hears
'bout him after dat. De soldiers passes by lots of times, both de 'federates and de 'blue bellies',
but we's never bothered with dem. De fightin' was not close enough to make trouble. Jus' 'fore
freedom come, de new overseer am 'structed to take us to Texas and takes us to Kaufman County
and we is refugees dere. De Yankee mans tells us we am free and can do sich as we pleases.
Dat lef' us in charge of no one and we'uns, jus' like cattle, wen' wanderin'.

"Pappy, him goes back to Lousiana to massa's place. Dat am de las' we hears from him. Mammy
and I goes to Henderson and I works at dis and dat and cares for my mammy ten years, till she
dies. Den I gits jobs as cook in Dallas and Houston and lots of other places.

"I gits married in 1901 to Ellen Tilles and I cooks till 'bout four years ago, till I gits
de rhumatis'. Dat's all I can tell you 'bout de ole days.

420096

     JAMES BROWN, 84, blind for the last 12 years and now living alone
     in a shack at 408 W. Belknap, Fort Worth, Texas, was born a slave
     of Mr. Berney in Bell Co., Texas, in 1853. While still an infant,
     he and his mother were sold to Mr. John Blair, who farmed four
     miles south of Waco, Texas. JAMES has no known living relatives and
     a pension of $14.00 a month is his sole support.

"My fust Marster was named Marster Berney. I'se don' 'member hims fust name nor nothin' 'bout
him. I'se don' know nothin' 'bout my pappy, but Marster Blair told me hims name was John Brown.

"Marster Blair have hims farm four miles south of Waco. We'uns lived in de cabins and have
de fiddle and de banjoes. We'uns sing and have music on Sundays. Marster never whups we'uns
and him was allus good to us. Him gives us plenty to eat, and meat, too. Hims keeps 'bout 20
hawgs dere all de time. De women makes de clothes and we'uns have all we need.

"De fust work I does is drivin' de Marster to town. Marster have fine hosses. Marster have
hims office in Waco and we drive dere every day. I'se stays all day ready to drive him home.
Mos' every day hims give me five cents or maybe de dime. Hims was a big law man and went to
de legislature down in Austin. His picture am in Austin, 'cause I'se down dere years ago and
seen his picture in a case wid Gov'ner Ross' picture.

"Anudder thing dat Marster does powe'ful good am trade de niggers. He buys and sells 'em all
de time. You see, dere was traders dat traveled from place to place dem days and dey takes
sometimes as much as 100 niggers for to trade. Dere was sheds outside of town, whar dey keeps
de niggers when dey comes to town.

"De Marster and de trader talks dis away: 'How you trade?' 'I'se gives you even trade.' 'No,
I'se wants $25.00 for de diff'runce.' 'I'se gives you $5.00.' Dat's de way dey talks on and
on. Maybe dey makes de trade and maybe dey don'.

"Dey have auction sometime and Marster allus tend 'em. At de auction I'se seen dem sell a family.
Maybe one man buy de mammy, anudder buy de pappy and anudder buy all de chillens or maybe jus'
one, like dat. I'se see dem cry like dey at de funeral when dey am parted. Dey has to drag
'em away.

"When de auction begin, he says: 'Dis nigger is so and so ole, he never 'bused, he soun' as
a dollar. Jus' look at de muscle and de big shoulders. He's worth a thousan' of any man's money.
How much am I offered?' Den de biddin' starts. It goes like dis: '$200 I'se hear, does I'se
hear $250, does I hear $300.' Den de nigger takes hims clothes--dey have one extry suit--and
goes wid de man dat buys him.

"De day befo' Marster gives we'uns freedom, he says to we'uns, 'I'se wants all you niggers
to come to de front of de house Sunday mornin!' We'uns was dere and he was standin' on de gallery,
holdin' a paper in hims han' and readin'. Dere was tears in hims eyes and some drap on de paper.
I'se have tears in my eyes, too; mos' of 'em have. When hims done readin', hims says: 'You
darkies is as free as I'se is. You can go or you can stay. Those dat stay till de crops laid
by, I'se will give $5.00 a month.'

"Den he takes de little niggers and says, 'De little fellows who I'se have sold dere mammies
will stay wid me till dey am 21 years ole. You little fellows, I'se know you's age and I'se
give yous de statement.'

"Mos' of de niggers stays wid him, but dey lef' fust one and den tudder. I'se stays on wid
him for many years and works as coachman. When I lef' de Marster, 'twas to work for a farmer
for one year, den I'se comes to Fort Worth. I'se works in lumberya'd for long time.

"For de las' 12 years I'se been blin'. I'se had hard time after dat till de las' year but I'se
gits de pension each month, dat am a heap of help. Dis nigger am thankful for what de Lawd
have blessed me wid.

420104

     JOSIE BROWN was born about 1859, in Victoria, Texas. She belonged
     to George Heard. Her mother was born free, a member of the Choctaw
     Nation, but she was stolen and sold as a slave. Josie now lives in
     Woodville, Texas.

"I's bo'n on Christmas day, in Victoria. Got here jus' in time for de eggnog! Dat 'bout 1859,
'cause I's six year ole de Christmas 'fore freedom. My mudder was a free bo'n Injun woman.
Jus' like any ole, demmed Choctaw down in de woods. She was stole and sol' by a spec'lator's
gang. Us move to Tyler when I one mont' ole.

"We lib on a big farm and my mudder suckle her thirteen chillun and ole mistus seven. Bob,
my brudder, he go to Mansfiel' and we never hear of him no more. He wen' with young marster,
Wesley Heard. I 'member de mornin' dey lef', dey had to wait for him, 'cause he'd been out
seein' his gal.

"De marstar hab a big log house close to de road. De quarters was 'cordin' to de family what
live dere. De stage line through Woodville pass close by. I 'member sittin' on de rail fence
to see de stage go by. Dat was a fine sight! De stage was big, rough carriage and dey was four
or five hosses on de line. De bugle blow when dey go by, with de dus' behin' dem. Dey was comin'
from Jasper, in Louisian', and everywhere.

"When us little dey hab to keep us in de house 'cause de bald eagle pick up chillen jus' like
de hawk pick up chicken. Dey was lots of catamoun' and bears and deer in de woods. Us never
'llowed play 'lone in de woods.

"I didn' do nothin' 'cep' eat and sleep and foller ole mistus 'round. She giv me good clothes
'cause my mudder was de weaver. De clothes jus' cut out straight down and dyed with all kinds
of bark. I hab to keep de head comb and grease with lard. De lil' white chillun play with me
but not de udder nigger chilluns much. Us pull de long, leaf grass and plait it and us make
rag doll and playhouse and grapevine swing. Dere's plenty grapes, scudlong, sour blue grape
and sweet, white grape. Dey make jelly and wine outta dem. Dey squeeze de grapes and put de
juice in a jimmijohn(demijohn) to fo'men'.

"My mudder name was Keyia. Dat Injun. Daddy's name was Reuben. I 'member when I's lil' us goes
visit my uncle, Major Scott. He lib in Polk County and he wore earring in he ears and beads
and everyt'ing. He's a Injun. He dead now, many year.

"My daddy work in de fiel'. He sow de rice and raise t'baccy. Dey have fiel's of it. Dey put
it in de crack of de fence to press, den dey dry it on de barn roof. Dat was smokin' t'baccy!
For de chewin' t'baccy, dey soak it in sugar and honey. Us never see snuff den.

"On Sunday us didn' work. We has chu'ch meetin'. But dey has to have it in de ya'd, so de white
folks could see de kin' of religion 'spounded.

"I seed some bad sight in slavery, but ain' never been 'bused myself. I seed chillun too lil'
to walk from dey mammies sol' right off de block in Woodville. Dey was sol' jus' like calfs.
I seed niggers in han' locks.

"After freedom dey wuk a whole year and den Major Sangers, he finally come and make de white
folks tu'n us loose. I stay on for years, 'till ole mistus die. She larn me to knit and spin
and sich like.

"In de early day, us hab to be keerful. Dey say witches ride dey hosses on de da'k nights.
Us allus put hossshoes over de door to keep de witch out. Iffen us go out at night, us go roun'
de house three time so de witch not come in while us gone.

"I's fifteen year ole when I marry. Giles Paul was from de Wes'. He was de fus' husban'. Us
hab a real weddin' with a bride veil. My weddin' dress hang 'way back on de flo', and shine
like silver. Dey hab big dance and eat supper.

"My second husban' name' Robert Brown and I's mudder of ten chillun. 'Sides dat, I raises six
or seven day I pick up on de street 'cause dey orfums and hab nobody to care for dem. Some
dem chillun drif' 'bout now and I wouldn' know 'em if I seed 'em!

420211

     ZEK BROWN, 80, was born a slave of Green Brown, owner of six slave
     families, in Warren County, Tennessee. Zek came to Texas in 1868,
     with Sam Bragg. Zek now lives at 407 W. Bluff St., in Fort Worth,
     Texas.

"My name am Zek Brown and Massa Green Brown owned me. He have a plantation in Tennessee and
own all my folks, what was my pappy and mammy and two sisters. I never seed any of dem since
I ran 'way from there, when I's ten years old.

"I sometimes wishes I's back on de plantation. I's took good care of dere and massa am awful
good. Each fam'ly have dere own cabin and it warn't so much for niceness but we lives comfor'ble
and has plenty to eat and wear. My mammy work de loom, makin' cloth, and us chillen wears linsey
cloth shirts till dey gives us pants. Massa buy he fam'ly nice clothes but dey wears linsey
clothes everyday. Same with shoes, dey am made on de plantation and de first store shoes I
has am after surrender. My mammy buys me a pair with brass tips on de toe, and am I dress up den!

"De food am bester dan what I's had since dem days. Dey raises it all but de salt and sich.
You wouldn't 'lieve how us et den. It am ham and bacon, 'cause dey raises all de hawgs. It
am cornmeal and some white flour and fruit and honey and 'lasses and brown sugar. De 'lasses
am black as I is and dat am some black. I wishes I was dere and mammy call me, and I can smell
dat ham fryin' right now.

"Not once does I know of de massa whippin' and him don't talk rough even. Jus' so de work am
done we does as we pleases, long as us reas'ble. Us have parties and dancin' and singin'. De
music am de banjo and de fiddle.

"I don't 'member when de war start but I 'member when it stop and massa call all us together
and tell us we's no more slaves. Him talk lots 'bout what it mean and how it am diff'rent and
we'uns have to make our own way and can't 'pend on him like. He say if us stay dere'll be wages
or we can share crop and everybody stay. My folks stays one year and den moves to 'nother he
farms. Pappy keep de farm and mammy teach school. Her missie done larnt her to read and sich
from time she a young'un, so she have eddication so good dey puts her to teachin'.

"De way I leaves home am dis. One day mammy teachin' school and me and my sister am home, and
I 'cides she need de haircut. She want it, too. So I gits de shears and goes to work and after
I works a while de job don't look so good, so I cuts some more and den it look worse and I
tries to fix it and first thing I knows dere ain't no hair left to cut. When mammy come home
she pays me for de work with de rawhide whip and dat hurts my feelin's so bad I 'cides to git
even by runnin' 'way a few days. It am 'bout sundown and I starts to go and comes to Massa
Sam Bragg's place. I's tired den and not so strong 'bout de idea and 'cides to rest. I walks
into he yard and dere am a covered wagon standin' and loaded with lots of stuff and de front
end open. I finds de soft place in de back and goes to sleep, and when I wakes up it am jus'
gittin' daylight and dat wagon am a-movin'.'

"I don't say nothin'. I's skeert and waits for dat wagon to stop, so's I can crawl out. I jus'
sits and sits and when it stop I crawls out and Massa Bragg say, 'Good gosh, look what am crawlin'
out de wagon! He look at me a while and den he say, 'You's too far from home for me to take
you back and you'll git lost if you tries to walk home. I guesses I'll have to take you with
me.' I thinks him am goin' some place and comin' back, but it am to Texas him come and stop
at Birdville. Dat am how dis nigger come to Texas.

"I's often wish my mammy done whip me so hard I couldn't walk off de place, 'cause from den
on I has mighty hard times. I stays with Massa Bragg four years and then I hunts for a job
where I can git some wages. I gits it with Massa Joe Henderson, workin' on he farm and I's
been round these parts ever since and farmed most my life.

"I gits into a picklement once years ago. I's 'rested on de street. I's not done a thing, jus'
walkin' 'long de street with 'nother fellow and dey claim he stole somethin'. I didn't know
nothin' 'bout since. Did dey turn me a-loose? Dey turn me loose after six months on de chain
gang. I works on de road three months with a ball and chain on de legs. After dat trouble,
I sho' picks my comp'ny.

"I marries onct, 'bout forty years ago, and after four years she drops dead with de heart mis'ry.
Us have no chillen so I's alone in de world. It am all right long as I could work, but five
years ago dis right arm gits to shakin' so bad I can' work no more. For a year now dey pays
me $9.00 pension. It am hard to live on dat for a whole month, but I's glad to git it.

4210129

     MADISON BRUIN, 92, spent his early days as a slave on the Curtis
     farm in the blue grass region of Kentucky, where he had some
     experience with some of the fine horses for which the state is
     famous. Here, too, he had certain contacts with soldiers of John
     Morgan, of Confederate fame. His eyes are keen and his voice mellow
     and low. His years have not taken a heavy toll of his vitality.

"I's a old Kentucky man. I's born in Fayette County, 'bout five miles from Lexington, right
where dere lots of fine hosses. My old massa was name Jack Curtis and de old missus was Miss
Addie. My mother name Mary and she die in 1863 and never did see freedom. I don't 'member my
daddy a-tall.

