THE MYTH OF HIAWATHA,

AND

OTHER ORAL LEGENDS, MYTHOLOGIC AND ALLEGORIC,

OF THE NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS.

BY

HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT, LL.D.

PHILADELPHIA: J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.

LONDON: TRÜBNER & CO.

1856.

Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by

HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT,

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania.

    TO PROF. HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW.

    SIR:--

    Permit me to dedicate to you, this volume of Indian myths and
    legends, derived from the story-telling circle of the native
    wigwams. That they indicate the possession, by the Vesperic tribes,
    of mental resources of a very characteristic kind--furnishing, in
    fact, a new point from which to judge the race, and to excite
    intellectual sympathies, you have most felicitously shown in your
    poem of Hiawatha. Not only so, but you have demonstrated, by this
    pleasing series of pictures of Indian life, sentiment, and
    invention, that the theme of the native lore reveals one of the
    true sources of our literary independence. Greece and Rome, England
    and Italy, have so long furnished, if they have not exhausted, the
    field of poetic culture, that it is, at least, refreshing to find
    both in theme and metre, something new.

    Very truly yours,

    HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT.

PREFACE.

There is but one consideration of much moment necessary to be premised respecting these legends
and myths. It is this: they are versions of oral relations from the lips of the Indians, and
are transcripts of the thought and invention of the aboriginal mind. As such, they furnish
illustrations of Indian character and opinions on subjects which the ever-cautious and suspicious
minds of this people have, heretofore, concealed. They place the man altogether in a new phasis.
They reflect him as he is. They show us what he believes, hopes, fears, wishes, expects, worships,
lives for, dies for. They are always true to the Indian manners and customs, opinions and theories.
They never rise above them; they never sink below them. Placing him in almost every possible
position, as a hunter, a warrior, a magician, a pow-wow, a medicine man, a meda, a husband,
a father, a friend, a foe, a stranger, a wild singer of songs to monedos or fetishes, a trembler
in terror of demons and wood genii, and of ghosts, witches, and sorcerers--now in the enjoyment
of plenty in feasts--now pale and weak with abstinence in fasts; now transforming beasts and
birds, or plants and trees into men, or men into beasts by necromancy; it is impossible not
to perceive what he perpetually thinks, believes, and feels. The very language of the man is
employed, and his vocabulary is not enlarged by words and phrases foreign to it. Other sources
of information depict his exterior habits and outer garb and deportment; but in these legends
and myths, we perceive the interior man, and are made cognizant of the secret workings of his
mind, and heart, and soul.

To make these collections, of which the portions now submitted are but a part, the leisure
hours of many seasons, passed in an official capacity in the solitude of the wilderness far
away from society, have been employed, with the study of the languages, and with the very best
interpreters. They have been carefully translated, written, and rewritten, to obtain their
true spirit and meaning, expunging passages, where it was necessary to avoid tediousness of
narration, triviality of circumstance, tautologies, gross incongruities, and vulgarities; but
adding no incident and drawing no conclusion, which the verbal narration did not imperatively
require or sanction. It was impossible to mistake the import of terms and phrases where the
means of their analysis were ample. If the style is sometimes found to be bald, and of jejune
simplicity, the original is characteristically so. Few adjectives are employed, because there
are few in the original.[1] The Indian effects his purposes, almost entirely, by changes of
the verb and demonstrative pronoun, or by adjective inflections of the substantive. Good and
bad, high and low, black and white, are in all cases employed in a transitive sense, and with
strict relation to the objects characterized. The Indian compound terms are so descriptive,
so graphic, so local, so characterizing, yet so flexible and transpositive, that the legends
derive no little of their characteristic features as well as melody of utterance from these
traits. Sometimes these terms cannot be literally translated, and they cannot, in these cases,
be left out without damaging the stories.

With regard to the thought-work of the legends, those who have deemed the Indians exclusively
a cruel and blood-thirsty race, always seeking revenge, always invoking evil powers, will not
be disappointed that giants, enchanters, demons, and dark supernatural agencies, should form
so large a part of the dramatis personæ. Surprise has been expressed,[2] that the kindlier
affections come in for notice at all, and particularly at the occurrence of such refined and
terse allegories as the origin of Indian Corn, Winter and Spring, and the poetic conception
of the Celestial Sisters, &c. I can only add, that my own surprise was as great when these
traits were first revealed. And the trait may be quoted to show how deeply the tribes have
wandered away from the type of the human race in which love and affection absorb the heart;[3]
and how little, indeed, we know of their mental character.

These legends have been out of print several years. They are now reproduced, with additional
legendary lore of this description from the portfolios of the author, in a revised, and, it
is believed, a more terse, condensed, and acceptable form, both in a literary and business garb.[4]

HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT.

Washington, D.C., April 28, 1856.

      [1] If Edwards the younger, to whom the Mohican was familiar from
      his childhood, could say, that he doubted whether there were any
      true adjectives in that language, it can easily be imagined that
      the subtlety of the transitive principle had not been
      sufficiently analyzed; but the remark is here quoted in relation
      to the paucity of adjectives.

      [2] Vide Criterion.

      [3] When the volumes of Algic Researches, in 1839, were
      published, the book-trade had hardly awakened to that wide and
      diffusive impulse which it has since received. No attention had
      been given to topics so obscure as inquiries into the character
      of the Indian mind--if, indeed, it was thought the Indian had any
      mind at all. It was still supposed that the Indian was, at all
      times and in all places, "a stoic of the woods," always
      statuesque, always formal, always passionless, always on stilts,
      always speaking in metaphors, a cold embodiment of bravery,
      endurance, and savage heroism. Writers depicted him as a man who
      uttered nothing but high principles of natural right, who always
      harangued eloquently, and was ready, with unmoved philosophy on
      all occasions, to sing his death song at the stake to show the
      world how a warrior should die.

      [4] The songs and chants which form so striking a part of the
      original legends, and also the poetic use of aboriginal ideas,
      are transferred to the end of the volume, and will thus, it is
      apprehended, relieve and simplify the text.

CONTENTS.

                                                                 Page

Hiawatha; or, Manabozho                                            13

Paup-puk-keewiss                                                   52

Osseo; or, the Son of the Evening Star                             71

Kwasind; or, the fearfully Strong Man                              77

The Jeebi; or, Two Ghosts                                          81

Iagoo                                                              85

Shawondasee                                                        88

Puck Wudj Ininees; or, the Vanishing Little Men                    90

Pezhiu and Wabose; or, the Lynx and Hare                           95

Peboan and Seegwun. An Allegory of Winter and Spring               96

Mon-daw-min; or, the Origin of Indian Corn                         99

Nezhik-e-wa-wa-sun; or, the Lone Lightning                        105

The Ak Uk O Jeesh; or, the Groundhog Family                       107

Opeechee; or, the Origin of the Robin                             109

Shingebiss. An Allegory of Self-reliance                          113

The Star Family; or, the Celestial Sisters                        116

Ojeeg Annung; or, the Summer-Maker                                121

Chileeli; or, the Red Lover                                       129

Sheem, the forsaken Boy, or Wolf Brother                          136

Mishemokwa; or, the War with the Gigantic Bear wearing the precious prize of the Necklace of
Wampum, or the Origin of the Small Black Bear                                    142

The Red Swan                                                      161

Tau-wau-chee-hezkaw; or, the White Feather                        180

Pauguk, and the mythological interpretation of Hiawatha           188

Iëna, the Wanderer; or, Magic Bundle                              194

Mishosha; or, the Magician of Lake Superior                       202

Peeta Kway, the Foam-Woman                                        213

Pah-hah-undootah, the Red Head                                    216

The White Stone Canoe                                             223

Onaiazo, the Sky-Walker. A Legend of a Visit to the Sun           228

Bosh-kwa-dosh; or, the Mastodon                                   233

The Sun-Catcher; or, the Boy who set a Snare for the Sun. A Myth of the Origin of the Dormouse
239

Wa-wa-be-zo-win; or, the Swing on the Pictured Rocks of Lake Superior                     
243

Mukakee Mindemoea; or, the Toad-Woman                             246

Eroneniera; or, an Indian Visit to the Great Spirit               251

The Six Hawks; or, Broken Wing                                    258

Weeng, the Spirit of Sleep                                        262

Addik Kum Maig; or, the Origin of the White Fish                  265

Bokwewa; or, the Humpback Magician                                269

Aggodagauda and his Daughter; or, the Man with his Leg tied up                            
274

Iosco; or, the Prairie Boys' Visit to the Sun and Moon            278

The Enchanted Moccasins                                           293

Leelinau. A Chippewa Tale                                         299

                    *      *      *      *      *

Wild Notes of the Pibbigwun                                       303

INTRODUCTION.

Hitherto, Indian opinion, on abstract subjects, has been a sealed book. It has been impossible
to extract the truth from his evasive replies. If asked his opinion of religion in the abstract,
he knows not the true meaning of the term. His ideas of the existence of a Deity are vague,
at best; and the lines of separation between it and necromancy, medical magic, and demonology
are too faintly separated to allow him to speak with discrimination. The best reply, as to
his religious views, his mythology, his cosmogony, and his general views as to the mode and
manifestations of the government and providences of God, are to be found in his myths and legends.
When he assembles his lodge-circle, to hear stories, in seasons of leisure and retirement in
the depths of the forest, he recites precisely what he believes on these subjects. That restlessness,
suspicion, and mistrust of motive, which has closed his mind to inquiry, is at rest here. If
he mingles fiction with history, there is little of the latter, and it is very easy to see
where history ends and fiction begins. While he amuses his hearers with tales of the adventures
of giants and dwarfs, and the conflicts of Manito with Manito, fairies and enchanters, monsters
and demons, he also throws in some few grains of instruction, in the form of allegory and fable,
which enable us to perceive glimpses of the heart and its affections.

It is also by his myths that we are able to trace connections with the human family in other
parts of the world. Yet, where the analogies are so general, there is a constant liability
to mistakes. Of these foreign analogies of myth lore, the least tangible, it is believed, is
that which has been suggested with the Scandinavian mythology. That mythology is of so marked
and peculiar a character, that it has not been distinctly traced out of the great circle of
tribes of the Indo-Germanic family. Odin, and his terrific pantheon of war-gods and social
deities, could only exist in the dreary latitudes of storms and fire, which produce a Hecla
and a Maelstrom. These latitudes have invariably produced nations, whose influence has been
felt in an elevating power over the world; and whose tracks have everywhere been marked by
the highest evidences of inductive intellect, centralizing energy, and practical wisdom and
forecast. From such a source the Indian could have derived none of his vague symbolisms and
mental idiosyncrasies, which have left him, as he is found to-day, without a government and
without a God. Far more probable is it, in seeking for analogies to his mythology and cosmogony,
to resort to the era of that primal reconstruction of the theory of a Deity, when the human
philosophy in the oriental world ascribed the godship of the universe to the subtile, ineffable,
and indestructible essences of fire and light, as revealed in the sun. Such were the errors
of the search for divine truth, power, and a controllable Deity, which early developed themselves
in the dogmas of the Assyrians, Egyptians, Persians, and wandering hordes of Northern Asia.

Authors inform us that the worship of the sun lies at the foundation of all the ancient mythologies,
deeply enveloped as they are, when followed over Asia Minor and Europe, in symbolic and linguistical
subtleties and refinements. The symbolical fires erected on temples and altars to Baal, Chemosh,
and Moloch, burned brightly in the valley of the Euphrates,[5] long before the pyramids of
Egypt were erected, or its priestly-hoarded hieroglyphic wisdom resulted in a phonetic alphabet.
In Persia, these altars were guarded and religiously fed by a consecrated body of magical priesthood,
who recognized a Deity in the essence of an eternal fire and a world-pervading light.

The same dogma, derived eastwardly and not westwardly through Europe, was fully installed at
Atacama and Cuzco, in Peru, at Cholulu, on the magnificent and volcano-lighted peaks of Mexico;
and along the fertile deltas of the Mississippi valley. Altar-beds for a sacred fire, lit to
the Great Spirit, under the name and symbolic form of Ceezis, or the sun, where the frankincense
of the nicotiana was offered, with hymns and genuflections, have been discovered, in many instances,
under the earth-heaps and artificial mounds and places of sepulture of the ancient inhabitants.
Intelligent Indians yet living, among the North American tribes, point out the symbol of the
sun, in their ancient muzzinabikons, or rock-inscriptions, and also amid the idiographic tracery
and bark-scrolls of the hieratic and magical medicine songs.

With a cosmogony which ascribes the creation of the Geezha Monedo, who is symbolized by the
sun, the myth of Hiawatha is almost a necessary consequence in carrying out his mundane intentions
to the tribes, who believed themselves to be peculiar objects of his love and benevolence.
This myth is noticed by the earliest explorers of this continent, who have bestowed attention
on the subject, under the various names of Inigorio, Yoskika, Taren-Yawagon, Atahentsic, Manabozho,
and Micabo. A mythology appears indispensable to a rude and ignorant race like the Indians.
Their vocabulary is nearly limited to objects which can be seen and handled. Abstractions are
only reached by the introduction of some term which restores the idea. The Deity is a mystery,
of whose power they must chiefly judge by the phenomena before them. Everything is mysterious
which is not understood; and, unluckily, they understand little or nothing. If any phenomenon,
or existence not before them, is to be described, the language must be symbolic. The result
is, that the Indian languages are peculiarly the languages of symbols, metaphors, and figures.
Without this feature, everything not in the departments of eating, drinking, and living, and
the ordinary transactions of the chase and forest, would not be capable of description.

When the Great Sacred White Hare of Heaven, the Manabozho of the Algrics, and Hiawatha of the
Iroquois, kills the Great Misshikinabik, or prince of serpents, it is understood that he destroys
the great power of evil. It is a deity whom he destroys, a sort of Typhon or Ahriman in the
system. It is immediately found, on going to his lodge, that it is a man, a hero, a chief,
who is sick, and he must be cured by simples and magic songs like the rest of the Indians.
He is surrounded with Indian doctors, who sing magic songs. He has all the powers of a deity,
and, when he dies, the land is subjected to a flood; from which Hiawatha alone escapes. This
play between the zoonic and mortal shapes of heroes must constantly be observed, in high as
well as in ordinary characters. To have the name of an animal, or bird, or reptile, is to have
his powers. When Pena runs, on a wager of life, with the Great Sorcerer, he changes himself
sometimes into a partridge, and sometimes into a wolf, to outrun him.

The Indian's necessities of language at all times require personifications and linguistic creations.
He cannot talk on abstract topics without them. Myths and spiritual agencies are constantly
required. The ordinary domestic life of the Indian is described in plain words and phrases,
but whatever is mysterious or abstract must be brought under mythological figures and influences.
Birds and quadrupeds must be made to talk. Weeng is the spirit of somnolency in the lodge stories.
He is provided with a class of little invisible emissaries, who ascend the forehead, armed
with tiny war-clubs, with which they strike the temples, producing sleep. Pauguk is the personification
of death. He is armed with a bow and arrows, to execute his mortal functions. Hosts of a small
fairy-like creation, called Ininees, little men, or Pukwudj Ininees, vanishing little men,
inhabit cliffs, and picturesque and romantic scenes. Another class of marine or water spirits,
called Nebunabaigs, occupy the rivers and lakes. There is an articulate voice in all the varied
sounds of the forest--the groaning of its branches, and the whispering of its leaves. Local
Manitos, or fetishes, inhabit every grove; and hence he is never alone.

To facilitate allusion to the braggadocio, or the extravagant in observation, the mythos of
Iagoo is added to his vocabulary. The North and the South, the East and the West, are prefigured
as the brothers of Hiawatha, or the laughter-provoking Manubozho. It is impossible to peruse
the Indian myths and legends without perceiving the governing motives of his reasons, hopes,
wishes, and fears, the principles of his actions, and his general belief in life, death, and
immortality. He is no longer an enigma. They completely unmask the man. They lay open his most
secret theories of the phenomena of spirit life; of necromancy, witchcraft, and demonology;
and, in a special manner, of the deep and wide-spread prevalence throughout the world of Indian
opinion, of the theory and power of local Manitos. It is here that the Indian prophet, powwow,
or jossakeed, throws off his mask, and the Indian religionist discloses to us the secrets of
his fasts and dreams. His mind completely unbends itself, and the man lives over, in imagination,
both the sweet and the bitter scenes of a hunter's life. To him the clouds, which chase each
other, in brilliant hues and constantly changing forms, in the heavens, constitute a species
of wild pictography, which he can interpret. The phenomena of storms and meteorological changes
connect themselves, in the superstitious mind, with some engrossing mythos or symbol. The eagle,
the kite, and the hawk, who fly to great heights, are deemed to be conversant with the aerial
powers, who are believed to have an influence over men, and hence the great regard which is
paid to the flight of these birds in their war and hieratic songs.

Fictitious tales of imaginary Indian life, and poems on the aboriginal model, have been in
vogue almost from the days of the discovery. But what has been fancied as life in the forest,
has had no little resemblance to those Utopian schemes of government and happiness which rather
denote the human mind run mad, than supply models to guide judgment or please philosophy. In
general, these attempts have held up high principles of thought and action in a people, against
truth, observation, and common sense. High heroic action, in the Indian, is the result of personal
education in endurance, supported by pride of character; and if he can ever be said to rejoice
in suffering, it is in the spirit of a taunt to his enemy. This error had been so long prevalent,
that when, in 1839, the author submitted a veritable collection of legends and myths from the
Indian wigwams, which reflected the Indian life as it is, it was difficult, and almost impossible,
to excite interest in the theme, in the trade. He went to England and the continent, in hopes
of better success. But, although philanthropists and men of letters and science appreciated
the subject, as historical elements in the history of the human mind, the booksellers of London,
Paris, Leipsic, and Frankfort-on-the-Main, to whose notice the subject was brought, exhibited
very nearly the same nonchalant tone; and had it not been for the attractive poetic form in
which one of our most popular and successful bards has clothed some of these wild myths, the
period of their reproduction is likely to have been still further postponed.

In now submitting so large a body of matter, respecting the mental garniture of a people whose
fate and fortunes have excited so much interest, the surprise is not that we know so little
of their mental traits, but that, with so little research and inquiry, we should know anything
at all. They have only been regarded as the geologist regards boulders, being not only out
of place, but with not half the sure guides and principles of determining where they came from,
and where the undisturbed original strata remain. The wonder is not that, as boulder-tribes,
they have not adopted our industry and Christianity, and stoutly resisted civilization, in
all its phases, but that, in spite of such vital truths, held up by all the Colonies and States,
and by every family of them, they have not long since died out and become extinguished. No
English colony could live three or four centuries, in any isolated part of the world, without
the plough, the school-book, and the Bible; it would die out, of idleness and ignorance. If
one century has kicked the Indian in America harder than another, it is because the kicks of
labor, art, and knowledge are always the hardest, and in the precise proportion to the contiguity
of the object.

By obtaining--what these legends give--a sight of the inner man, we are better able to set
a just estimate on his character, and to tell what means of treatment are best suited for his
reclamation. That forbearance, kindness, and teaching are best adapted to the object, there
is no doubt. We are counselled to forgive an erring brother seventy and seven times. If, as
some maintain, wrongfully, we believe, the Indian is not, in a genealogical sense, of the same
stock, yet is he not, in a moral sense, a brother? If the knowledge of his story-telling faculty
has had any tendency to correct the evils of false popular opinion respecting him, it has been
to show that the man talks and laughs like the rest of the human family; that it is fear that
makes him suspicious, and ignorance superstitious; that he is himself the dupe of an artful
forest priesthood; and that his cruelty and sanguinary fury are the effects of false notions
of fame, honor, and glory. He is always, and at all times and places, under the strong influence
of hopes and fears, true or false, by which he is carried forward in the changing scenes of
war and peace. Kindness never fails to soften and meliorate his feelings, and harshness, injury,
and contempt to harden and blunt them. Above all, it is shown that, in the recesses of the
forest, he devotes a portion of his time to domestic and social enjoyment, in which the leading
feature is the relation of traditionary legends and tales. Heroes and heroines, giants and
dwarfs, spirits, Monetos or local gods, demons, and deities pass in review. It is chiefly by
their misadventures and violations of the Indian theories, that the laugh is sought to be raised.
The dramatis personæ are true transcripts of Indian life; they never rise above it, or express
a sentiment or opinion which is not true to Indian society; nor do they employ words which
are not known to their vocabulary. It is in these legends that we obtain their true views of
life and death, their religion, their theory of the state of the dead, their mythology, their
cosmogony, their notions of astrology, and often of their biography and history--for the boundaries
between history and fiction are vaguely defined. These stories are often told, in seasons of
great severity in the depth of the winter, to an eagerly listening group, to while away the
hour, and divert attention from the pressing claims of hunger. Under such circumstances to
dole away time which has no value to him, and to cheat hunger and want, is esteemed a trait
of philosophy. If there is a morsel to eat in the lodge, it is given to the children. The women
imitate this stoicism and devotion of the men. Not a tone in the narration tells of dismay
in their domestic circumstances, not an eye acknowledges the influence of grief. Tell me whether
the dignity of this position is not worthy of remembrance. The man, it may be, shall pass away
from the earth, but these tributes to the best feelings of the heart will remain, while these
simple tales and legendary creations constitute a new point of character by which he should
be judged. They are, at least, calculated to modify our views of the man, who is not always
a savage, not always a fiend.

      [5] Gross.

HIAWATHA;

OR,

MANABOZHO.

The myth of the Indians of a remarkable personage, who is called Manabozho by the Algonquins,
and Hiawatha by the Iroquois, who was the instructor of the tribes in arts and knowledge, was
first related to me in 1822, by the Chippewas of Lake Superior. He is regarded as the messenger
of the Great Spirit, sent down to them in the character of a wise man, and a prophet. But he
comes clothed with all the attributes of humanity, as well as the power of performing miraculous
deeds. He adapts himself perfectly to their manners, and customs, and ideas. He is brought
up from a child among them. He is made to learn their mode of life. He takes a wife, builds
a lodge, hunts and fishes like the rest of them, sings his war songs and medicine songs, goes
to war, has his triumphs, has his friends and foes, suffers, wants, hungers, is in dread or
joy--and, in fine, undergoes all the vicissitudes of his fellows. His miraculous gifts and
powers are always adapted to his situation. When he is swallowed by a great fish, with his
canoe, he escapes by the exertion of these powers, but always, as much as possible, in accordance
with Indian maxims and means. He is provided with a magic canoe, which goes where it is bid;
yet, in his fight with the great wampum prince, he is counselled by a woodpecker to know where
the vulnerable point of his antagonist lies. He rids the earth of monsters and giants, and
clears away windfalls, and obstructions to the navigation of streams. But he does not do these
feats by miracles; he employs strong men to help him. When he means to destroy the great serpents,
he changes himself into an old tree, and stands on the beach till they come out of the water
to bask in the sun. Whatever man could do, in strength or wisdom, he could do. But he never
does things above the comprehension or belief of his people; and whatever else he is, he is
always true to the character of an Indian.

This myth is one of the most general in the Indian country. It is the prime legend of their
mythology. He is talked of in every winter lodge--for the winter season is the only time devoted
to such narrations. The moment the leaves come out, stories cease in the lodge. The revival
of spring in the botanical world opens, as it were, so many eyes and ears to listen to the
tales of men; and the Indian is far too shrewd a man, and too firm a believer in the system
of invisible spirits by which he is surrounded, to commit himself by saying a word which they,
with their acute senses on the opening of the spring, can be offended at.

He leaps over extensive regions of country like an ignis fatuus. He appears suddenly like an
avatar, or saunters over weary wastes a poor and starving hunter. His voice is at one moment
deep and sonorous as a thunder-clap, and at another clothed with the softness of feminine supplication.
Scarcely any two persons agree in all the minor circumstances of the story, and scarcely any
omit the leading traits. The several tribes who speak dialects of the mother language from
which the narration is taken, differ, in like manner, from each other in the particulars of
his exploits. His birth and parentage are mysterious. Story says his grandmother was the daughter
of the moon. Having been married but a short time, her rival attracted her to a grape-vine
swing on the banks of a lake, and by one bold exertion pitched her into its centre, from which
she fell through to the earth. Having a daughter, the fruit of her lunar marriage, she was
very careful in instructing her, from early infancy, to beware of the west wind, and never,
in stooping, to expose herself to its influence. In some unguarded moment this precaution was
neglected. In an instant, the gale accomplished its Tarquinic purpose.

Very little is told of his early boyhood. We take him up in the following legend at a period
of advanced youth, when we find him living with his grandmother. And at this time he possessed,
although he had not yet exercised, all the anomalous and contradictory powers of body and mind,
of manship and divinity, which he afterward evinced. The timidity and rawness of the boy quickly
gave way in the courageous developments of the man. He soon evinced the sagacity, cunning,
perseverance, and heroic courage which constitute the admiration of the Indians. And he relied
largely upon these in the gratification of an ambitious, vainglorious, and mischief-loving
disposition. In wisdom and energy he was superior to any one who had ever lived before. Yet
he was simple when circumstances required it, and was ever the object of tricks and ridicule
in others. He could transform himself into any animal he pleased, being man or manito, as circumstances
rendered necessary. He often conversed with animals, fowls, reptiles, and fishes. He deemed
himself related to them, and invariably addressed them by the term "my brother;" and one of
his greatest resources, when hard pressed, was to change himself into their shapes.

Manitoes constitute the great power and absorbing topic of Indian lore. Their agency is at
once the groundwork of their mythology and demonology. They supply the machinery of their poetic
inventions, and the belief in their multitudinous existence exerts a powerful influence upon
the lives and character of individuals. As their manitoes are of all imaginary kinds, grades,
and powers, benign and malicious, it seems a grand conception among the Indians to create a
personage strong enough in his necromantic and spiritual powers to baffle the most malicious,
beat the stoutest, and overreach the most cunning. In carrying out this conception in the following
myth, they have, however, rather exhibited an incarnation of the power of Evil than of the
genius of Benevolence.

Manabozho was living with his grandmother near the edge of a wide prairie. On this prairie
he first saw animals and birds of every kind. He there also saw exhibitions of divine power
in the sweeping tempests, in the thunder and lightning, and the various shades of light and
darkness, which form a never-ending scene of observation. He often trembled at what he heard
and saw. To this scene his grandmother sent him at an early age to watch. She told him that
he was young and foolish; that what he had heard was only a bird, deriving its name from the
noise it made.

He went back and continued his watch. At length his grandmother asked him, "Manabozho, what
is the matter with you?" He answered, "I wish you would tell me whether I have any parents
living, and who my relatives are." Knowing that he was of a wicked and revengeful disposition,
she dreaded telling him the story of his parentage, but he insisted on her compliance. "Yes,"
she said, "you have a father and three brothers living. Your mother is dead. She was taken
without the consent of her parents by your father the West. I have nourished you from your
infancy, for your mother died in giving you birth, owing to the ill treatment of your father.
I have no relations besides you this side of the planet in which I was born, and from which
I was precipitated by female jealousy. Your mother was my only child, and you are my only hope."

He appeared to be rejoiced to hear that his father was living, for he had already thought in
his heart to try and kill him. He told his grandmother he should set out in the morning to
visit him. She said it was a long distance to the place where Ningabiun[7] lived. But that
had no effect to stop him, for he had now attained manhood, possessed a giant's height, and
was endowed by nature with a giant's strength and power. He set out and soon reached the place,
for every step he took covered a large surface of ground. The meeting took place on a high
mountain in the West. His father was very happy to see him. He also appeared pleased. They
spent some days in talking with each other. At last his father said, yielding, "Yes, there
is a black stone found in such a place. It is the only thing earthly I am afraid of; for if
it should hit me or any part of my body, it would injure me very much." He said this as a secret,
and in return asked his son the same question. Knowing each other's power, although the son's
was limited, the father feared him on account of his great strength. Manabozho answered, "Nothing!"
intending to avoid the question, or to refer to some harmless object as the one of which he
was afraid. He was asked again and again, and answered, "Nothing!" But the West said, "There
must be something you are afraid of." "Well! I will tell you," says Manabozho, "what it is."
But, before he would pronounce the word, he affected great dread. "Ie-ee--Ie-ee--it is--it
is," said he, "yeo! yeo![8] I cannot name it; I am seized with a dread." The West told him
to banish his fears. He commenced again, in a strain of mock sensitiveness repeating the same
words; at last he cried out, "It is the root of the apukwa."[9] He appeared to be exhausted
by the effort of pronouncing the word, in all this skilfully acting a studied part.

Some time after he observed, "I will get some of the black rock." The West said, "Far be it
from you; do not do so, my son." He still persisted. "Well," said the father, "I will also
get the apukwa root." Manabozho immediately cried out, "Kago! Kago!"[10] affecting, as before,
to be in great dread of it, but really wishing, by this course, to urge on the West to procure
it, that he might draw him into combat. He went out and got a large piece of the black rock,
and brought it home. The West also took care to bring the dreaded root.

In the course of conversation he asked his father whether he had been the cause of his mother's
death. The answer was "Yes!" He then took up the rock and struck him. Blow led to blow, and
here commenced an obstinate and furious combat, which continued several days. Fragments of
the rock, broken off under Manabozho's blows, can be seen in various places to this day."[11]
The root did not prove as mortal a weapon as his well-acted fears had led his father to expect,
although he suffered severely from the blows. This battle commenced on the mountains. The West
was forced to give ground. Manabozho drove him across rivers, and over mountains and lakes,
and at last he came to the brink of this world.

"Hold!" cried he, "my son; you know my power, and that it is impossible to kill me. Go and
do good. You have the power now to do so, and your fame with the beings of this earth will
last forever. When you have finished your work, I will have a place provided for you. You will
then go and sit with your brother Kabibboonocca in the north."

Manabozho was pacified. He returned to his lodge, where he was confined by the wounds he had
received. But from his grandmother's skill in medicines he was soon recovered. She told him
that his grandfather, who had come to the earth in search of her, had been killed by Megissogwon,[13]
who lived on the opposite side of the great lake. "When he was alive," she continued, "I was
never without oil to put on my head, but now my hair is fast falling off for the want of it."
"Well!" said he, "Noko, get cedar bark and make me a line, whilst I make a canoe." When all
was ready, he went out to the middle of the lake to fish. He put his line down, saying, "Me-she-nah-ma-gwai
(the name of the kingfish), take hold of my bait." He kept repeating this for some time. At
last the king of the fishes said, "Manabozho troubles me. Here, Trout, take hold of his line."
The trout did so. He then commenced drawing up his line, which was very heavy, so that his
canoe stood nearly perpendicular; but he kept crying out, "Wha-ee-he! wha-ee-he!" till he could
see the trout. As soon as he saw him, he spoke to him. "Why did you take hold of my hook? Esa!
esa![14] you ugly fish." The trout, being thus rebuked, let go.

Manabozho put his line again in the water, saying, "King of fishes, take hold of my line."
But the king of the fishes told a monstrous sunfish to take hold of it; for Manabozho was tiring
him with his incessant calls. He again drew up his line with difficulty, saying as before,
"Wha-ee-he! wha-ee-he!" while his canoe was turning in swift circles. When he saw the sunfish,
he cried, "Esa! esa! you odious fish! why did you dirty my hook by taking it in your mouth?
Let go, I say, let go." The sunfish did so, and told the king of fishes what Manabozho said.
Just at that moment the bait came near the king, and hearing Manabozho continually crying out,
"Me-she nah-ma-gwai, take hold of my hook," at last he did so, and allowed himself to be drawn
up to the surface, which he had no sooner reached than, at one mouthful, he took Manabozho
and his canoe down. When he came to himself, he found that he was in the fish's belly, and
also his canoe. He now turned his thoughts to the way of making his escape. Looking in his
canoe, he saw his war-club, with which he immediately struck the heart of the fish. He then
felt a sudden motion, as if he were moving with great velocity. The fish observed to the others,
"I am sick at stomach for having swallowed this dirty fellow Manabozho." Just at this moment
he received another severe blow on the heart. Manabozho thought, "If I am thrown up in the
middle of the lake, I shall be drowned; so I must prevent it." He drew his canoe and placed
it across the fish's throat, and just as he had finished the fish commenced vomiting, but to
no effect. In this he was aided by a squirrel, who had accompanied him unperceived until that
moment. This animal had taken an active part in helping him to place his canoe across the fish's
throat. For this act he named him, saying, "For the future, boys shall always call you Ajidaumo."[15]

He then renewed his attack upon the fish's heart, and succeeded, by repeated blows, in killing
him, which he first knew by the loss of motion, and by the sound of the beating of the body
against the shore. He waited a day longer to see what would happen. He heard birds scratching
on the body, and all at once the rays of light broke in. He could see the heads of gulls, who
were looking in by the opening they had made. "Oh!" cried Manabozho, "my younger brothers,
make the opening larger, so that I can get out." They told each other that their brother Manabozho
was inside of the fish. They immediately set about enlarging the orifice, and in a short time
liberated him. After he got out he said to the gulls, "For the future you shall be called Kayoshk[16]
for your kindness to me."

The spot where the fish happened to be driven ashore was near his lodge. He went up and told
his grandmother to go and prepare as much oil as she wanted. All besides, he informed her,
he should keep for himself.

Some time after this, he commenced making preparations for a war excursion against the Pearl
Feather, the Manito who lived on the opposite side of the great lake, who had killed his grandfather.
The abode of this spirit was defended, first, by fiery serpents, who hissed fire so that no
one could pass them; and, in the second place, by a large mass of gummy matter lying on the
water, so soft and adhesive, that whoever attempted to pass, or whatever came in contact with
it, was sure to stick there.

He continued making bows and arrows without number, but he had no heads for his arrows. At
last Noko told him that an old man who lived at some distance could make them. He sent her
to get some. She soon returned with her conaus or wrapper full.[17] Still he told her he had
not enough, and sent her again. She returned with as much more. He thought to himself, "I must
find out the way of making these heads." Cunning and curiosity prompted him to make the discovery.
But he deemed it necessary to deceive his grandmother in so doing. Go and see whether the old
man cannot make some a little larger." He followed her as she went, keeping at a distance,
and saw the old artificer at work, and so discovered his process. He also beheld the old man's
daughter, and perceived that she was very beautiful. He felt his breast beat with a new emotion,
but said nothing. He took care to get home before his grandmother, and commenced singing as
if he had never left his lodge. When the old woman came near, she heard his drum and rattle,
without any suspicion that he had followed her. She delivered him the arrow-heads.

One evening the old woman said, "My son, you ought to fast before you go to war, as your brothers
frequently do, to find out whether you will be successful or not."[18] He said he had no objection,
and immediately commenced a fast for several days. He would retire every day from the lodge
so far as to be out of reach of his grandmother's voice. It seems she had indicated this spot,
and was very anxious he should fast there, and not at another place. She had a secret motive,
which she carefully hid from him. Deception always begets suspicion. After a while he thought
to himself, "I must find out why my grandmother is so anxious for me to fast at this spot."
Next evening he went but a short distance. She cried out, "A little farther off;" but he came
nearer to the lodge, and cried out in a low, counterfeited voice, to make it appear that he
was distant. She then replied, "That is far enough." He had got so near that he could see all
that passed in the lodge. He had not been long in his place of concealment, when a paramour
in the shape of a bear entered the lodge. He had very long hair. They commenced talking about
him, and appeared to be improperly familiar. At that time people lived to a very great age,
and he perceived, from the marked attentions of this visitor, that he did not think a grandmother
too old to be pleased with such attentions. He listened to their conversation some time. At
last he determined to play the visitor a trick. He took some fire, and when the bear had turned
his back, touched his long hair. When the animal felt the flame, he jumped out, but the open
air only made it burn the fiercer, and he was seen running off in a full blaze.

Manabozho ran to his customary place of fasting, and assuming a tone of simplicity, began to
cry out, "Noko! Noko! is it time for me to come home?" "Yes," she cried. When he came in she
told him what had taken place, at which he appeared to be very much surprised.

After having finished his term of fasting and sung his war-song--from which the Indians of
the present day derive the custom--he embarked in his canoe, fully prepared for war. In addition
to the usual implements, he had a plentiful supply of oil. He saw they were some distance apart,
and that the flame only which issued from them reached across the pass. He commenced talking
as a friend to them; but they answered, "We know you, Manabozho, you cannot pass." He then
thought of some expedient to deceive them, and hit upon this. He pushed his canoe as near as
possible. All at once he cried out, with a loud and terrified voice, "What is that behind you?"
The serpents instantly turned their heads, when, at a single word, he passed them. "Well!"
said he, placidly, after he had got by, "how do you like my exploit?" He then took up his bow
and arrows, and with deliberate aim shot them, which was easily done, for the serpents were
stationary, and could not move beyond a certain spot. They were of enormous length and of a
bright color.

Having overcome the sentinel serpents, he went on in his magic canoe till he came to a soft
gummy portion of the lake, called Pigiu-wagumee or Pitchwater. He took the oil and rubbed it
on his canoe, and then pushed into it. The oil softened the surface and enabled him to slip
through it with ease, although it required frequent rubbing, and a constant reapplication of
the oil. Just as his oil failed, he extricated himself from this impediment, and was the first
person who ever succeeded in overcoming it.

He now came in view of land, on which he debarked in safety, and could see the lodge of the
Shining Manito, situated on a hill. He commenced preparing for the fight, putting his arrows
and clubs in order, and just at the dawn of day began his attack, yelling and shouting, and
crying with triple voices, "Surround him! surround him! run up! run up!" making it appear that
he had many followers. He advanced crying out, "It was you that killed my grandfather," and
with this shot his arrows. The combat continued all day. Manabozho's arrows had no effect,
for his antagonist was clothed with pure wampum. He was now reduced to three arrows, and it
was only by extraordinary agility that he could escape the blows which the Manito kept making
at him. At that moment a large woodpecker (the ma-ma) flew past, and lit on a tree. "Manabozho,"
he cried, "your adversary has a vulnerable point; shoot at the lock of hair on the crown of
his head." He shot his first arrow so as only to draw blood from that part. The Manito made
one or two unsteady steps, but recovered himself. He began to parley, but, in the act, received
a second arrow, which brought him to his knees. But he again recovered. In so doing, however,
he exposed his head, and gave his adversary a chance to fire his third arrow, which penetrated
deep, and brought him a lifeless corpse to the ground. Manabozho uttered his saw-saw-quan,
and taking his scalp as a trophy, he called the woodpecker to come and receive a reward for
his information. He took the blood of the Manito and rubbed it on the woodpecker's[19] head,
the feathers of which are red to this day.

After this victory he returned home, singing songs of triumph and beating his drum. When his
grandmother heard him, she came to the shore and welcomed him with songs and dancing. Glory
fired his mind. He displayed the trophies he had brought in the most conspicuous manner, and
felt an unconquerable desire for other adventures. He felt himself urged by the consciousness
of his power to new trials of bravery, skill, and necromantic prowess. He had destroyed the
Manito of Wealth, and killed his guardian serpents, and eluded all his charms. He did not long
remain inactive. His next adventure was upon the water, and proved him the prince of fishermen.
He captured a fish of such monstrous size, that the fat and oil he obtained from it formed
a small lake. He therefore invited all the animals and fowls to a banquet, and he made the
order in which they partook of this repast the measure of their fatness. As fast as they arrived,
he told them to plunge in. The bear came first, and was followed by the deer, opossum, and
such other animals as are noted for their peculiar fatness at certain seasons. The moose and
bison came tardily. The partridge looked on till the reservoir was nearly exhausted. The hare
and marten came last, and these animals have, consequently, no fat. When this ceremony was
over, he told the assembled animals and birds to dance, taking up his drum and crying, "New
songs from the south, come, brothers, dance." He directed them to pass in a circle around him,
and to shut their eyes. They did so. Manabozho followed him, and, just as the duck was getting
into the water, gave him a kick, which is the cause of his back being flattened and his legs
being straightened out backward, so that when he gets on land he cannot walk, and his tail
feathers are few. Meantime the other birds flew off, and the animals ran into the woods.

After this Manabozho set out to travel. He wished to outdo all others, and to see new countries.
But after walking over America and encountering many adventures, he became satisfied as well
as fatigued. He had heard of great feats in hunting, and felt a desire to try his power in
that way. One evening, as he was walking along the shores of a great lake, weary and hungry,
he encountered a great magician in the form of an old wolf, with six young ones, coming towards
him. He appeared rejoiced to see the old wolf, and asked him whither he was journeying. Being
told that they were looking out for a place, where they could find most game, to pass the winter,
he said he should like to go with them, and addressed the old wolf in the following words:
"Brother, I have a passion for the chase; are you willing to change me into a wolf?" He was
answered favorably, and his transformation immediately effected.

Manabozho was fond of novelty. He found himself a wolf corresponding in size with the others,
but he was not quite satisfied with the change, crying out, "Oh, make me a little larger."
They did so. "A little larger still," he exclaimed. They said, "Let us humor him," and granted
his request. "Well," said he, "that will do." He looked at his tail. "Oh!" cried he, "do make
my tail a little longer and more bushy." They did so. They then all started off in company,
dashing up a ravine. After getting into the woods some distance, they fell in with the tracks
of moose. The young ones went after them, Manabozho and the old wolf following at their leisure.
"Well," said the wolf, "who do you think is the fastest of the boys? can you tell by the jumps
they take?" They then came to the place where the boys had started in chase. One had dropped
his small bundle. "Take that, Manabozho," said the old wolf. "Esa," he replied, "what will
I do with a dirty dogskin?" The wolf took it up; it was a beautiful robe. "Oh, I will carry
it now," said Manabozho. "Oh no," replied the wolf, who at the moment exerted his magic power;
"it is a robe of pearls!" And from this moment he omitted no occasion to display his superiority,
both in the hunter's and magician's art, above his conceited companion. I know by the tracks,
for I can always tell whether they are fat or not." The old man took it up, and behold! it
was a beautiful silver arrow. When they overtook the youngsters, they had killed a very fat
moose. However, he sat down without saying a word. At length the old wolf spoke to one of the
young ones, saying, "Give some meat to your grandfather." One of them obeyed, and, coming near
to Manabozho, opened his mouth as if he was about to vomit. He jumped up, saying, "You filthy
dog, you have eaten so much that your stomach refuses to hold it. Get you gone into some other
place." The old wolf, hearing the abuse, went a little to one side to see, and behold, a heap
of fresh ruddy meat, with the fat, lying all ready prepared. He was followed by Manabozho,
who, having the enchantment instantly removed, put on a smiling face.

They then commenced fixing their winter quarters, while the youngsters went out in search of
game, and soon brought in a large supply. One day, during the absence of the young wolves,
the old one amused himself in cracking the large bones of a moose. "Manabozho," said he, "cover
your head with the robe, and do not look at me while I am at these bones, for a piece may fly
in your eye." He did as he was told; but, looking through a rent that was in the robe, he saw
what the other was about. Just at that moment a piece flew off and hit him on the eye. He cried
out, "Tyau, why do you strike me, you old dog?" The wolf said, "You must have been looking
at me." But deception commonly leads to falsehood. "No, no," he said, "why should I want to
look at you?" "Manabozho," said the wolf, "you must have been looking, or you would not have
got hurt." "No, no," he replied again, "I was not. I will repay the saucy wolf this," thought
he to himself. So, next day, taking up a bone to obtain the marrow, he said to the wolf, "Cover
your head and don't look at me, for I fear a piece may fly in your eye." The wolf did so. He
then took the leg-bone of the moose, and looking first to see if the wolf was well covered,
he hit him a blow with all his might. The wolf jumped up, cried out, and fell prostrate from
the effects of the blow. "Why," said he, "do you strike me so?" "Strike you!" he replied; "no,
you must have been looking at me." "No," answered the wolf, "I say I have not." But he persisted
in the assertion, and the poor magician had to give up.

Manabozho was an expert hunter when he earnestly undertook it. He went out one day and killed
a fat moose. He was very hungry, and sat down to eat. I will commence here, say what they will."
He took a delicate piece from the rump, and was just ready to put it in his mouth, when a tree
close by made a creaking noise, caused by the rubbing of one large branch against another.
This annoyed him. "Why!" he exclaimed, "I cannot eat when I hear such a noise. Stop! stop!"
said he to the tree. He was putting the morsel again to his mouth, when the noise was repeated.
He put it down, exclaiming, "I cannot eat with such a noise;" and immediately left the meat,
although very hungry, to go and put a stop to the noise. He climbed the tree and was pulling
at the limb, when his arm was caught between the two branches so that he could not extricate
himself. While thus held fast, he saw a pack of wolves coming in the direction towards his
meat. "Go that way! go that way!" he cried out; "what would you come to get here?" Manabozho
looked on wishfully to see them eat till they were fully satisfied, and they left him nothing
but the bare bones. The next heavy blast of wind opened the branches and liberated him. He
went home, thinking to himself, "See the effect of meddling with frivolous things when I had
certain good in my possession."

Next day the old wolf addressed him thus: "My brother, I am going to separate from you, but
I will leave behind me one of the young wolves to be your hunter." He then departed. In the
act Manabozho was disenchanted, and again resumed his mortal shape. He was sorrowful and dejected,
but soon resumed his wonted air of cheerfulness. The young wolf who was left with him was a
good hunter, and never failed to keep the lodge well supplied with meat. One day he addressed
him as follows: "My grandson, I had a dream last night, and it does not portend good. It is
of the large lake which lies in that direction (pointing). You must be careful never to cross
it, even if the ice should appear good. If you should come to it at night weary or hungry,
you must make the circuit of it." Spring commenced, and the snow was melting fast before the
rays of the sun, when one evening the wolf came to this lake, weary with the day's chase. He
disliked to go so far to make the circuit of it. "Hwooh!" he exclaimed, "there can be no great
harm in trying the ice, as it appears to be sound. Nesho[20] is over cautious on this point."
But he had not got half way across when the ice gave way and he fell in, and was immediately
seized by the serpents, who knew it was Manabozho's grandson, and were thirsting for revenge
upon him. Manabozho sat pensively in his lodge.

Night came on, but no son returned. The second and third night passed, but he did not appear.
He became very desolate and sorrowful. "Ah!" said he, "he must have disobeyed me, and has lost
his life in that lake I told him of. Well!" said he at last, "I must mourn for him." So he
took coal and blackened his face. But he was much perplexed as to the right mode. "I wonder,"
said he, "how I must do it? I will cry 'Oh! my grandson! Oh! my grandson!'" He burst out a
laughing. "No! no! that won't do. I will try so--'Oh! my heart! Oh! my heart! ha! ha! ha!'.
That won't do either. I will cry, 'Oh my grandson obiquadj!'"[21] This satisfied him, and he
remained in his lodge and fasted, till his days of mourning were over. "Now," said he, "I will
go in search of him." He set out and travelled some time. At last he came to a great lake.
He then raised the same cries of lamentation for his grandson which had pleased him. He sat
down near a small brook that emptied itself into the lake, and repeated his cries. Soon a bird
called Ke-ske-mun-i-see[22] came near to him. The bird inquired, "What are you doing here?"
"Nothing," he replied; "but can you tell me whether any one lives in this lake, and what brings
you here yourself?" "Yes!" responded the bird; "the Prince of Serpents lives here, and I am
watching to see whether the obiquadj of Manabozho's grandson will not drift ashore, for he
was killed by the serpents last spring. But are you not Manabozho himself?" "No," he answered,
with his usual deceit; "how do you think he could get to this place? But tell me, do the serpents
ever appear? when? and where? Tell me all about their habits." "Do you see that beautiful white
sandy beach?" said the bird. "Yes!" he answered. "It is there," continued the Kingfisher, "that
they bask in the sun. Before they come out, the lake will appear perfectly calm; not even a
ripple will appear. After midday (na-wi-qua) you will see them."

"Thank you," he replied; "I am Manabozho himself. I have come in search of the body of my son,
and to seek my revenge. Come near me that I may put a medal round your neck as a reward for
your information." The bird unsuspectingly came near, and received a white medal, which can
be seen to this day.[23] While bestowing the medal, he attempted slyly to wring the bird's
head off, but it escaped him, with only a disturbance of the crown feathers of its head, which
are rumpled backward. He had found out all he wanted to know, and then desired to conceal the
knowledge of his purposes by killing his informant.

He went to the sandy beach indicated, and transformed himself into an oak stump. He had not
been there long before he saw the lake perfectly calm. Soon hundreds of monstrous serpents
came crawling on the beach. One of the number was beautifully white. He was the prince. The
others were red and yellow. The prince spoke to those about him as follows: "I never saw that
black stump standing there before. It may be Manabozho. There is no knowing but he may be somewhere
about here. He has the power of an evil genius, and we should be on our guard against his wiles."
One of the large serpents immediately went and twisted himself around it to the top, and pressed
it very hard. The greatest pressure happened to be on his throat; he was just ready to cry
out when the serpent let go. Eight of them went in succession and did the like, but always
let go at the moment he was ready to cry out. "It cannot be him," they said. "He is too great
a weak-heart[24] for that." They then coiled themselves in a circle about their prince. It
was a long time before they fell asleep. When they did so, Manabozho took his bow and arrows,
and cautiously stepping over the serpents till he came to the prince, drew up his arrow with
the full strength of his arm, and shot him in the left side. He then gave a saw-saw-quan,[25]
and ran off at full speed. The sound uttered by the snakes on seeing their prince mortally
wounded, was horrible. They cried, "Manabozho has killed our prince; go in chase of him." Meantime
he ran over hill and valley, to gain the interior of the country, with all his strength and
speed, treading a mile at a step. But his pursuers were also spirits, and he could hear that
something was approaching him fast. He made for the highest mountain, and climbed the highest
tree on its summit, when, dreadful to behold, the whole lower country was seen to be overflowed,
and the water was gaining rapidly on the high lands. He saw it reach to the foot of the mountain,
and at length it came up to the foot of the tree, but there was no abatement. The flood rose
steadily and perceptibly. He soon felt the lower part of his body to be immersed in it. He
addressed the tree: "Grandfather, stretch yourself." The tree did so. But the waters still
rose. He repeated his request, and was again obeyed. He asked a third time, and was again obeyed;
but the tree replied, "It is the last time; I cannot get any higher." The waters continued
to rise till they reached up to his chin, at which point they stood, and soon began to abate.
Hope revived in his heart. He then cast his eyes around the illimitable expanse, and spied
a loon. "Dive down, my brother," he said to him, "and fetch up some earth, so that I can make
a new earth." The bird obeyed, but rose up to the surface a lifeless form. He then saw a muskrat.
"Dive!" said he, "and if you succeed, you may hereafter live either on land or water, as you
please; or I will give you a chain of beautiful little lakes, surrounded with rushes, to inhabit."
He dove down, but he floated up senseless. He took the body and breathed in his nostrils, which
restored him to life. "Try again," said he. The muskrat did so. He came up senseless the second
time, but clutched a little earth in one of his paws, from which, together with the carcass
of the dead loon, he created a new earth as large as the former had been, with all living animals,
fowls, and plants.

As he was walking to survey the new earth, he heard some one singing. He went to the place,
and found a female spirit, in the disguise of an old woman, singing these words, and crying
at every pause:--

    "Ma nau bo sho, O dó zheem un,
    Ogeem´ au wun, Onis´ sa waun,
    Hee-Ub bub ub bub (crying).
    Dread Manabozho in revenge,
    For his grandson lost--
    Has killed the chief--the king."

"Noko," said he, "what is the matter?" "Matter!" said she, "where have you been, not to have
heard how Manabozho shot my son, the prince of serpents, in revenge for the loss of his nephew,
and how the earth was overflowed, and created anew? So I brought my son here, that he might
kill and destroy the inhabitants, as he did on the former earth. But," she continued, casting
a scrutinizing glance, "N'yau! indego Manabozho! hub! ub! ub! ub! Oh, I am afraid you are Manabozho!"
He burst out into a laugh to quiet her fears. "Ha! ha! ha! how can that be? Has not the old
earth perished, and all that was in it?" "Impossible! impossible!" "But, Noko," he continued,
"what do you intend doing with all that cedar cord on your back?" "Why," said she, "I am fixing
a snare for Manabozho, if he should be on this earth; and, in the mean time, I am looking for
herbs to heal my son. I am the only person that can do him any good.

Having found out, by conversation with her, all he wished, he put her to death. He then took
off her skin, and assuming this disguise, took the cedar cord on his back, and limped away
singing her songs. He completely aped the gait and voice of the old woman. He was met by one
who told him to make haste; that the prince was worse. At the lodge, limping and muttering,
he took notice that they had his grandson's hide to hang over the door. "Oh dogs!" said he;
"the evil dogs!" He sat down near the door, and commenced sobbing like an aged woman. One observed,
"Why don't you attend the sick, and not set there making such a noise?" He took up the poker
and laid it on them, mimicking the voice of the old woman. "Dogs that you are! why do you laugh
at me? You know very well that I am so sorry that I am nearly out of my head." With that he
approached the prince, singing the songs of the old woman, without exciting any suspicion.
He saw that his arrow had gone in about one half its length. He pretended to make preparations
for extracting it, but only made ready to finish his victim; and giving the dart a sudden thrust,
he put a period to the prince's life. He performed this act with the power of a giant, bursting
the old woman's skin, and at the same moment rushing through the door, the serpents following
him, hissing and crying out, "Perfidy! murder! vengeance! it is Manabozho." He immediately
transformed himself into a wolf, and ran over the plain with all his speed, aided by his father
the West Wind. When he got to the mountains he saw a badger. "Brother," said he, "make a hole
quick, for the serpents are after me." The badger obeyed. They both went in, and the badger
threw all the earth backward, so that it filled up the way behind.

The serpents came to the badger's wauzh,[26] and decided to watch. "We will starve him out,"
said they; so they continued watching. Manabozho told the badger to make an opening on the
other side of the mountain, from which he could go out and hunt, and bring meat in. Thus they
lived some time. One day the badger came in his way and displeased him. He immediately put
him to death, and threw out his carcass, saying, "I don't like you to be getting in my way
so often."

After living in this confinement for some time alone, he decided to go out. He immediately
did so; and after making the circuit of the mountain, came to the corpse of the prince, who
had been deserted by the serpents to pursue his destroyer. He went to work and skinned him.
He then drew on his skin, in which there were great virtues, took up his war-club, and set
out for the place where he first went in the ground. He found the serpents still watching.
When they saw the form of their dead prince advancing towards them, fear and dread took hold
of them. Some fled. Those who remained Manabozho killed. Those who fled went towards the South.

Having accomplished the victory over the reptiles, Manabozho returned to his former place of
dwelling, and married the arrow-maker's daughter.

After Manabozho had killed the Prince of Serpents, he was living in a state of great want,
completely deserted by his powers, as a deity, and not able to procure the ordinary means of
subsistence. He was at this time living with his wife and children, in a remote part of the
country, where he could get no game. He was miserably poor. It was winter, and he had not the
common Indian comforts.

He said to his wife, one day, "I will go out a walking, and see if I cannot find some lodges."
After walking some time he saw a lodge at a distance. The children were playing at the door.
When they saw him approaching they ran into the lodge, and told their parents that Manabozho
was coming. It was the residence of the large redheaded Woodpecker. He came to the lodge door
and asked him to enter. He did so. At last he drew something out of the tree, and threw it
down, when, behold! a fine, fat raccoon on the ground. He drew out six or seven more. After
eating, the great spirit-chief got ready to go home. The Woodpecker said to his wife, "Give
him what remains of the raccoons to take home for his children." In the act of leaving the
lodge he dropped intentionally one of his mittens, which was soon after observed. "Run," said
the Woodpecker to his eldest son, "and give it to him. But don't give it into his hand; throw
it at him, for there is no knowing him, he acts so curiously." The boy did as he was bid. "Nemesho"
(my grandfather), said he, as he came up to him, "you have left one of your mittens--here it
is." "Yes," said he, affecting to be ignorant of the circumstance, "it is so. But don't throw
it, you will soil it on the snow." The lad, however, threw it, and was about to return. "List,"
said Manabozho, "is that all you eat--do you eat nothing else with the raccoon?" "No," replied
the young Woodpecker. "What does the old fellow think he has got!" exclaimed he.

Some time after the Woodpecker went to pay a visit to Manabozho. He was received with the usual
attention. It had been the boast of Manabozho, in former days, that he could do what any other
being in the creation could, whether man or animals. He affected to have the sagacity of all
animals, to understand their language, and to be capable of exactly imitating it. And in his
visits to men, it was his custom to return, exactly, the treatment he had received. He was
very ceremonious in following the very voice and manner of his entertainers. The Woodpecker
had no sooner entered his lodge, therefore, than he commenced playing the mimic. He then put
a long piece of bone in his nose, in imitation of the bill of this bird, and jumping on the
tamarack-tree, attempted to climb it, doing as he had seen the Woodpecker do. He turned his
head first on one side, then on the other. He made awkward efforts to ascend, but continually
slipped down. He struck the tree with the bone in his nose, until at last he drove it so far
up his nostrils that the blood began to flow, and he fell down senseless at the foot of the
tree. The Woodpecker started after his drum and rattle to restore him, and having got them,
succeeded in bringing him to. She has rendered me a worthless fellow.

Severe weather continued, and Manabozho still suffered for the want of food. One day he walked
out, and came to a lodge, which was occupied by the Moose (Möz). The young Mozonsug[27] saw
him and told their father Manabozho was at the door. He told them to invite him in. Being seated,
they entered into conversation. At last the Moose, who was a Meeta, said, "What shall we give
Manabozho to eat? We have nothing." His wife was seated with her back toward him, making garters.
He walked up to her, and untying the covering of the armlet from her back, cut off a large
piece of flesh from the square of her shoulder.[28] He then put some medicine on it, which
immediately healed the wound. The skin did not even appear to have been broken, and his wife
was so little affected by it, that she did not so much as leave off her work, till he told
her to prepare the flesh for eating. "Manabozho," said he, "this is all we eat, and it is all
we can give you."

After they had finished eating, Manabozho set out for home, but intentionally, as before, dropped
one of his minjekawun, or mittens. One of the young Moose took it to him, telling him that
his father had sent him with it. He had been cautioned not to hand it to him, but to throw
it at him. Having done so, contrary to the remonstrance of Manabozho, he was going back, when
the latter cried out, "Bakah! Bakah![29] Is that[30] the only kind of meat you eat? Tell me."
"Yes," answered the young man, "that is all; we have nothing else." "Tell your father," he
replied, "to come and visit me, and I will give him what you shall eat with your meat." The
old Moose listened to this message with indignity. "I wonder what he thinks he has got, poor
fellow!"

He was bound, however, to obey the invitation, and went accordingly, taking along a cedar sack,
for he had been told to bring one. Manabozho received him in the same manner he had himself
been received--repeating the same remarks, and attempted to supply the lack of food in the
same manner. To this end he had requested his wife to busy herself in making garters. He arose
and untied the covering of her back as he had seen the Moose do. He then cut her back shockingly,
paying no attention to her cries or resistance, until he saw her fall down, from the loss of
blood. "Manabozho," said the Moose, "you are killing your wife." He immediately ran for his
drum and rattle, and restored her to life by his skill. He had no sooner done this than Manabozho
began to lay the blame of his ill success on his wife. "Why, Nemesho," said he, "this woman,
this relation of yours--she is making me a most worthless fellow. Formerly, I procured my meat
in this way. But now I can accomplish nothing."

The Moose then cut large pieces of flesh off his own thighs, without the least injury to himself,
and gave them to Manabozho, saying, with a contemptuous air, "This is the way we do." He then
left the lodge.

After these visits Manabozho was sitting pensively in his lodge one day, with his head down.
He heard the wind whistling around it, and thought, by attentively listening, he could hear
the voice of some one speaking to him. It seemed to say to him: "Great chief, why are you sorrowful?
Am not I your friend--your guardian Spirit?" He immediately took up his rattle, and without
leaving his sitting posture, began to sing the chant which at the close of every stanza has
the chorus of "Whaw Lay Le Aw." When he had devoted a long time to this chant, he laid his
rattle aside, and determined to fast. For this purpose he went to a cave, and built a very
small fire, near which he laid down, first telling his wife that neither she nor the children
must come near him till he had finished his fast. At the end of seven days he came back to
the lodge, pale and emaciated. His wife in the mean time had dug through the snow, and got
a small quantity of the root called truffles. These she boiled and set before him. When he
had finished his repast, he took his large bow and bent it. Then placing a strong arrow to
the string, he drew it back, and sent the arrow, with the strength of a giant, through the
side of his bark lodge. "There," said he to his wife, "go to the outside, and you will find
a large bear, shot through the heart." She did so, and found one as he had predicted.

He then sent the children out to get red willow sticks. Of these he cut off as many pieces,
of equal length, as would serve to invite his friends to a feast. A red stick was sent to each
one, not forgetting the Moose and the Woodpecker.

When they arrived, they were astonished to see such a profusion of meat cooked for them, at
such a time of scarcity. Manabozho understood their glances, and felt a conscious pride in
making such a display. "Akewazi," said he, to one of the oldest of the party, "the weather
is very cold, and the snow lasts a long time. We can kill nothing now but small squirrels.
And I have sent for you to help me eat some of them." The Woodpecker was the first to put a
mouthful of the bear's meat to his mouth, but he had no sooner begun to taste it, than it changed
into a dry powder, and set him coughing. It appeared as bitter as ashes. The Moose felt the
same effect, and began to cough. Each one, in turn, was added to the number of coughers. But
they had too much sense of decorum, and respect for their entertainer, to say anything. The
meat looked very fine. They thought they would try more of it. But the more they ate the faster
they coughed and the louder became the uproar, until Manabozho, exerting his former power,
which he now felt to be renewed, transformed them all into the Adjidamo, or squirrel, an animal
which is still found to have the habit of barking, or coughing, whenever it sees any one approach
its nest.

                    *      *      *      *      *

The story of this chief of northern myths is dropped in my notes at this point of his triumph
over the strongest of the reptile race. But his feats and adventures by land and sea do not
terminate here. There is scarcely a prominent lake, mountain, precipice, or stream in the northern
part of America, which is not hallowed in Indian story by his fabled deeds. Further accounts
will be found in several of the subsequent tales, which are narrated by the Indians in an independent
form, and may be now appropriately left as they were found, as episodes, detached from the
original story. To collect all these and arrange them in order would be an arduous labor; and,
after all, such an arrangement would lack consistency and keeping, unless much of the thread
necessary to present them in an English dress were supplied by alteration, and transposition.
The portions above narrated present a beginning and an end, which could hardly be said of the
loose and disjointed fragmentary tales referred to. How long Manabozho lived on earth is not
related. We hear nothing more of his grandmother; every mouth is filled with his queer adventures,
tricks, and sufferings. He was everywhere present where danger presented itself, power was
required, or mischief was going forward. Nothing was too low or trivial for him to engage in,
nor too high or difficult for him to attempt. He affected to be influenced by the spirit of
a god, and was really actuated by the malignity of a devil. The period of his labors and adventures
having expired, he withdrew to dwell with his brother in the North, where he is understood
to direct those storms which proceed from the points west of the pole. He is regarded as the
spirit of the northwest tempests, but receives no worship from the present race of Indians.
It is believed by them that he is again to appear, and to exercise an important power in the
final disposition of the human race.

In this singular tissue of incongruities may be perceived some ideas probably derived from
Asiatic sources. It will be found in the legends of the visitors to the Sun and Moon, and of
the white stone canoe, that Manabozho was met on the way, and he is represented as expressing
a deep repentance for the bad acts he had committed while on earth. He is, however, found exercising
the vocation of a necromancer; has a jossakeed's lodge, from which he utters oracles; and finally
transforms on the spot two of the party, who had consulted him, and asked the gift of immortality,
the one into a cedar-tree, and the other into a block of granite.

Manabozho is regarded by the Indians as a divine benefactor, and is admired and extolled as
the personification of strength and wisdom. Yet he constantly presents the paradox of being
a mere mortal; is driven to low and common expedients; and never utters a sentiment wiser or
better than the people among whom he appears. The conception of a divinity, pure, changeless,
and just, as well as benevolent, in the distribution of its providences, has not been reached
by any traits exhibited in the character of this personage. And if such notions had ever been
conceived by the ancestors of the present race of Indians in the East, they have been obliterated,
in the course of their long, dark, and hopeless pilgrimage in the forests of America. The prevalence
of this legend, among the Indian tribes, is extensive.

The character, the place, which he holds in the Indian mythology are further denoted in the
5th vol. of my Hist., p. 417, where he is represented as giving passage to souls on their way
through the regions of space, to the Indian paradise; and also in the legend of the White Stone
Canoe. The general myth, is recognized in the legend of the Iroquois, under the name of Hiawatha,
and Tarenyawazon. See Notes on the Iroquois, page 270 (1846), and also in the 3d vol. Hist.,
p. 314. Mr. Longfellow has given prominence to it, and to its chief episodes, by selecting
and generalizing such traits as appeared best susceptible of poetic uses.

       [6] An abbreviated term for "my grandmother," derived from
       no-kó-miss.

       [7] This is a term for the west wind. It is a derivative from
       Kabian-oong, the proper appellation for the occident.

       [8] An interjection indicating pain.

       [9] The scirpus, or bulrush.

      [10] Do not--do not.

      [11] The Northern Indians, when travelling in company with each
      other, or with white persons who possess their confidence, so as
      to put them at ease, are in the habit of making frequent
      allusions to Manabozho and his exploits. "There," said a young
      Chippewa, pointing to some huge boulders of greenstone, "are
      pieces of the rock broken off in Manabozho's combat with his
      father." "This is the duck," said an Indian interpreter on the
      sources of the Mississippi, "that Manabozho kicked." "Under that
      island," said a friend conversant with their language, "under
      that island Manabozho lost a beaver."

      [12] The term weendigo, translated here monster, is commonly
      applied, at this time, by the Indians, to cannibals. Its ancient
      use appears, however, to have embraced giants and anomalous
      voracious beasts of the land, to the former existence of which,
      on this Continent, their traditions refer.

      The word genábik, rendered serpent, appears likewise to have been
      used in a generic sense for amphibious animals of large and
      venomous character. When applied to existing species of serpents,
      it requires an adjective prefix or qualifying term.

      [13] The wampum or pearl feather.

      [14] An interjection equivalent to shame! shame!

      [15] Animal tail, or bottom upward.

      [16] A free translation of this expression might be rendered,
      noble scratchers, or grabbers.

      [17] The conaus is the most ancient garment known to these
      tribes, being a simple extended single piece, without folds. The
      word is the apparent root of godaus, a female garment.
      Waub-e-wion, a blanket, is a comparatively modern phrase for a
      wrapper, signifying, literally, a white skin with the wool on.

      [18] Fasts. The rite of fasting is one of the most deep-seated and
      universal in the Indian ritual. It is practised among all the
      American tribes, and is deemed by them essential to their success
      in life in every situation. No young man is fitted and prepared to
      begin the career of life until he has accomplished his great fast.
      Seven days appear to have been the ancient maximum limit of
      endurance, and the success of the devotee is inferred from the
      length of continued abstinence to which he is known to have
      attained. These fasts are anticipated by youth as one of the most
      important events of life. They are awaited with interest, prepared
      for with solemnity, and endured with a self-devotion bordering on
      the heroic. Character is thought to be fixed from this period, and
      the primary fast, thus prepared for and successfully established,
      seems to hold that relative importance to subsequent years that is
      attached to a public profession of religious faith in civilized
      communities. It is at this period that the young men and the young
      women "see visions and dream dreams," and fortune or misfortune is
      predicted from the guardian spirit chosen during this, to them,
      religious ordeal. The hallucinations of the mind are taken for
      divine inspiration. The effect is deeply felt and strongly
      impressed on the mind; too deeply, indeed, to be ever obliterated
      in after life. The father in the circle of his lodge, the hunter
      in the pursuit of the chase, and the warrior in the field of
      battle, think of the guardian genius which they fancy to accompany
      them, and trust to his power and benign influence under every
      circumstance. This genius is the absorbing theme of their silent
      meditations, and stands to them in all respects in place of the
      Christian's hope, with the single difference that, however deeply
      mused upon, the name is never uttered, and every circumstance
      connected with its selection, and the devotion paid to it, is most
      studiously and professedly concealed even from their nearest
      friends.

      Fasts in subsequent life appear to have for their object a
      renewal of the powers and virtues which they attribute to the
      rite. And they are observed more frequently by those who strive
      to preserve unaltered the ancient state of society among them, or
      by men who assume austere habits for the purpose of acquiring
      influence in the tribe, or as preparatives for war or some
      extraordinary feat. It is not known that there is any fixed day
      observed as a general fast. So far as a rule is followed, a
      general fast seems to have been observed in the spring, and to
      have preceded the general and customary feasts at that season.

      It will be inferred from these facts, that the Indians believe
      fasts to be very meritorious. They are deemed most acceptable to
      the Manitoes or spirits whose influence and protection they wish
      to engage or preserve. And it is thus clearly deducible, that a
      very large proportion of the time devoted by the Indians to
      secret worship, so to say, is devoted to these guardian or
      intermediate spirits, and not to the Great Spirit or Creator.

      [19] The tuft feathers of the red-headed woodpecker are used to
      ornament the stems of the Indian pipe, and are symbolical of
      valor.

      [20] Abbreviated from Neshomiss, my grandfather.

      [21] That part of the intestines of a fish, which by its
      expansion from air in the first stage of decomposition, causes
      the body to rise and float. The expression here means float.

      [22] The Alcedo or Kingfisher.

      [23] This bird has a white spot on the breast, and a tufted head.

      [24] Shau-go-dai-a, i.e., a Coward.

      [25] The war-cry.

      [26] A burrow.

      [27] Diminutive form, plural number, of the noun Möz.

      [28] The dress of the females in the Odjibwa nation, consists of
      sleeves, open on the inner side of the arm from the elbow up, and
      terminating in large square folds, falling from the shoulders,
      which are tied at the back of the neck with ribbon or binding.
      The sleeves are separately made, and not attached to the breast
      garment, which consists of square folds of cloth, ornamented and
      sustained by shoulder straps. To untie the sleeves or armlets, as
      is here described, is therefore to expose the shoulders, but not
      the back--a simple device, quickly accomplished, by which the
      magician could readily exercise his art almost imperceptibly to
      the object.

      [29] Stop! stop!

      [30] It is difficult to throw into the English pronoun the whole
      of the meaning of the Indian. Pronouns in this language being,
      like other parts of speech, transitive; they are at once
      indicative both of the actor, personal, and relative, and the
      nature of the object, or subject of the action, or relation.
      This, and that, are not used in the elementary form these
      pronouns invariably possess in the English. Inflections are put
      to them indicating the class of natural objects to which they
      refer. A noun masculine or feminine, requiring an animate
      pronoun, a noun inanimate, a pronoun inanimate.

PAUP-PUK-KEEWISS.

The vernal equinox in the north, generally takes place while the ground is covered with snow,
and winter still wears a polar aspect. Storms of wind and light drifting snow, expressively
called poudre by the French, and peewun by the Indians, fill the atmosphere, and render it
impossible to distinguish objects at a short distance. The fine powdery flakes of snow are
driven into the smallest crannies of buildings and fixtures, and seem to be endowed with a
subtle power of insinuation, which renders northern joinerwork but a poor defence. It is not
uncommon for the sleeper, on waking up in the morning, to find heaps of snow, where he had
supposed himself quite secure on lying down.

Such seasons are, almost invariably, times of scarcity and hunger with the Indians, for the
light snows have buried up the traps of the hunters, and the fishermen are deterred from exercising
their customary skill in decoying fish through orifices cut in the ice. They are often reduced
to the greatest straits, and compelled to exercise their utmost ingenuity to keep their children
from starving. Abstinence, on the part of the elder members of the family, is regarded both
as a duty and a merit. Every effort is made to satisfy the importunity of the little ones for
food, and if there be a story-teller in the lodge, he is sure to draw upon his cabin lore,
to amuse their minds, and beguile the time.

In these storms, when each inmate of the lodge has his conaus, or wrapper, tightly drawn around
him, and all are cowering around the cabin fire, should some sudden puff of wind drive a volume
of light snow into the lodge, it would scarcely happen, but that some one of the group would
cry out, "Ah, Pauppukkeewiss is now gathering his harvest," an expression which has the effect
to put them all into good humor.

Pauppukkeewiss was a crazy brain, who played many queer tricks, but took care, nevertheless,
to supply his family and children with food. But, in this, he was not always successful. Many
winters have passed since he was overtaken; at this very season of the year, with great want,
and he, with his whole family, was on the point of starvation. Every resource seemed to have
failed. The snow was so deep, and the storm continued so long, that he could not even find
a partridge or a hare. And his usual resource of fish had entirely failed. His lodge stood
in a point of woods, not far back from the shores of the Gitchiguma, or great water, where
the autumnal storms had piled up the ice into high pinnacles, resembling castles.

"I will go," said he to his family one morning, "to these castles, and solicit the pity of
the spirits who inhabit them, for I know that they are the residence of some of the spirits
of Kabiboonoka." He did so, and found that his petition was not disregarded. They told him
to fill his mushkemoot, or sack, with the ice and snow, and pass on toward his lodge, without
looking back, until he came to a certain hill. He must then drop it and leave it till morning,
when he would find it filled with fish.

They cautioned him, that he must by no means look back, although he would hear a great many
voices crying out to him, in abusive terms, for these voices were nothing but the wind playing
through the branches of the trees. He faithfully obeyed the injunction, although he found it
hard to avoid turning round, to see who was calling out to him. And when he visited his sack
in the morning, he found it filled with fish.

It chanced that Manabozho visited him on the morning that he brought home the sack of fish.
He was invited to partake of a feast, which Pauppukkeewiss ordered to be prepared for him.
While they were eating, Manabozho could not help asking him, by what means he had procured
such an abundance of food, at a time when they were all in a state of starvation.

Pauppukkeewiss frankly told him the secret, and repeated the precautions which were necessary
to insure success. Manabozho determined to profit by his information, and as soon as he could,
he set out to visit the icy castles. All things happened as he had been told. The spirits seemed
propitious, and told him to fill and carry. He accordingly filled his sacks with ice and snow,
and proceeded rapidly toward the hill of transmutation. But as he ran he heard voices calling
out behind him, "Thief! thief! He has stolen fish from Kabiboonoka," cried one. "Mukumik! mukumik!
Take it away! Take it away!" cried another.

In fine, his ears were so assailed by all manner of opprobrious terms, that he could not avoid
turning his head, to see who it was that thus abused him. But his curiosity dissolved the charm.
When he came to visit his bags next morning, he found them filled with ice and snow. A high
drifting snow storm never fails to bring up this story. The origin of this queer character
is as queer as his acts are phantastic. The myth asserts, that a man of large stature, and
great activity of mind and body, found himself standing alone on a prairie. He thought to himself,
"How came I here? Are there no beings on this earth but myself? I must travel and see. I must
walk till I find the abodes of men." So soon as his mind was made up, he set out, he knew not
where, in search of habitations. No obstacles could divert him from his purpose. Neither prairies,
rivers, woods, nor storms had the effect to daunt his courage or turn him back. After travelling
a long time he came to a wood, in which he saw decayed stumps of trees, as if they had been
cut in ancient times, but no other traces of men. Pursuing his journey, he found more recent
marks of the same kind; and after this, he came to fresh traces of human beings; first their
footsteps, and then the wood they had cut, lying in heaps. Continuing on, he emerged towards
dusk from the forest, and beheld at a distance a large village of high lodges, standing on
rising ground. He said to himself, "I will arrive there on a run." Off he started with all
his speed; on coming to the first large lodge, he jumped over it. Those within saw something
pass over the opening, and then heard a thump on the ground.

"What is that?" they all said.

One came out to see, and invited him in. He found himself in company with an old chief and
several men, who were seated in the lodge. Meat was set before him, after which the chief asked
him where he was going and what his name was. He answered, that he was in search of adventures,
and his name was Paup-Puk-Keewiss. A stare followed.

"Paup-Puk-Keewiss!"[31] said one to another, and a general titter went round.

He was not easy in his new position; the village was too small to give him full scope for his
powers, and after a short stay he made up his mind to go farther, taking with him a young man
who had formed a strong attachment for him, and might serve him as his mesh-in-au-wa.[32] They
set out together, and when his companion was fatigued with walking, he would show him a few
tricks, such as leaping over trees, and turning round on one leg till he made the dust fly,
by which he was mightily pleased, although it sometimes happened that the character of these
tricks frightened him.

One day they came to a very large village, where they were well received. After staying in
it some time, they were informed of a number of manitoes who lived at a distance, and who made
it a practice to kill all who came to their lodge. Attempts had been made to extirpate them,
but the war-parties who went out for this purpose were always unsuccessful. Paup-Puk-Keewiss
determined to visit them, although he was advised not to do so. The chief warned him of the
danger of the visit; but, finding him resolved,

"Well," said he, "if you will go, being my guest, I will send twenty warriors to serve you."

He thanked him for the offer. Twenty young men were ready at the instant, and they went forward,
and in due time described the lodge of the manitoes. He placed his friend and the warriors
near enough to see all that passed, while he went alone to the lodge. As he entered he saw
five horrid-looking manitoes in the act of eating. It was the father and his four sons. They
looked hideous; their eyes were swimming low in their heads, as if half starved. They offered
him something to eat, which he refused.

"What have you come for?" said the old one.

"Nothing," Paup-Puk-Keewiss answered.

They all stared at him.

"Do you not wish to wrestle?" they all asked.

"Yes," he replied.

A hideous smile came over their faces.

"You go," they said to the eldest brother.

They got ready, and were soon clinched in each other's arms for a deadly throw. He knew their
object--his death--his flesh was all they wanted, but he was prepared for them.

"Haw! haw!"[33] they cried, and soon the dust and dry leaves flew about as if driven by a strong
wind.

The manito was strong, but Paup-Puk-Keewiss soon found that he could master him; and, giving
him a trip, he threw him with a giant's force head foremost on a stone, and he fell like a
puffed thing.

The brothers stepped up in quick succession, but he put a number of tricks in force, and soon
the whole four lay bleeding on the ground. The old manito got frightened and ran for his life.
Paup-Puk-Keewiss pursued him for sport; sometimes he was before him, sometimes flying over
his head. He would now give him a kick, then a push or a trip, till he was almost exhausted.
Meantime his friend and the warriors cried out, "Ha! ha! a! ha! ha! a! Paup-Puk-Keewiss is
driving him before him." The manito only turned his head now and then to look back; at last,
Paup-Puk-Keewiss gave him a kick on his back, and broke his back bone; down he fell, and the
blood gushing out of his mouth prevented him from saying a word. The warriors piled all the
bodies together in the lodge, and then took fire and burned them. They all looked with deep
interest at the quantity of human bones scattered around.

Paup-Puk-Keewiss then took three arrows, and after having performed a ceremony to the Great
Spirit, he shot one into the air, crying, with a loud voice,

"You who are lying down, rise up, or you will be hit!" The bones all moved to one place. He
shot the second arrow, repeating the same words, when each bone drew towards its fellow-bone;
the third arrow brought forth to life the whole multitude of people who had been killed by
the manitoes. Paup-Puk-Keewiss then led them to the chief of the village who had proved his
friend, and gave them up to him. Soon after the chief came with his counsellors.

"Who is more worthy," said he, "to rule than you? You alone can defend them."

Paup-Puk-Keewiss thanked him, and told him he was in search of more adventures. The chief insisted.
Paup-Puk-Keewiss told him to confer the chieftainship on his friend, who, he said, would remain
while he went on his travels. He told them that he would, some time or other, come back and
see them.

"Ho! ho! ho!" they all cried, "come back again and see us," insisting on it. He promised them
he would, and then set out alone.

After travelling some time he came to a large lake; on looking about, he discovered a very
large otter on an island. He thought to himself, "His skin will make me a fine pouch," and
immediately drew up, at long shots, and drove an arrow into his side. He waded into the lake,
and with some difficulty dragged him ashore. He took out the entrails, and even then the carcass
was so heavy that it was as much as he could do to drag it up a hill overlooking the lake.
As soon as he got him up into the sunshine, where it was warm, he skinned him, and threw the
carcass some distance, thinking the war-eagle would come, and he should have a chance to get
his skin and feathers as head ornaments. He soon heard a rushing noise in the air, but could
see nothing; by and by, a large eagle dropped, as if from the air, on the otter's carcass.
He drew his bow, and the arrow passed through under both his wings. The bird made a convulsive
flight upwards with such force, that the heavy carcass (which was nearly as big as a moose)
was borne up several feet. Fortunately, both claws were fastened deeply into the meat, the
weight of which soon brought the bird down. He skinned him, crowned his head with the trophy,
and next day was on his way, on the lookout for something new.

After walking a while he came to a lake, which flooded the trees on its banks; he found it
was only a lake made by beavers. He took his station on the elevated dam, where the stream
escaped, to see whether any of the beavers would show themselves. He soon saw the head of one
peeping out of the water to see who disturbed them.

"My friend," said Paup-Puk-Keewiss, "could you not turn me into a beaver like yourself?" for
he thought, if he could become a beaver, he would see and know how these animals lived.

"I do not know," replied the beaver; "I will go and ask the others."

Soon all the beavers showed their heads above the water, and looked to see if he was armed;
but he had left his bow and arrows in a hollow tree at a short distance. When they were satisfied,
they all came near.

"Can you not, with all your united power," said he, "turn me into a beaver? I wish to live
among you."

"Yes," answered their chief; "lay down;" and he soon found himself changed into one of them.

"You must make me large," said he; "larger than any of you."

"Yes, yes!" said they. "By and by, when we get into the lodge, it shall be done."

In they all dove into the lake; and, in passing large heaps of limbs and logs at the bottom,
he asked the use of them; they answered, "It is for our winter's provisions."[34] When they
all got into the lodge, their number was about one hundred. The lodge was large and warm.

"Now we will make you large," said they. "Will that do?" exerting their power.

"Yes," he answered, for he found he was ten times the size of the largest.

"You need not go out," said they. "We will bring your food into the lodge, and you will be
our chief."

"Very well," Paup-Puk-Keewiss answered. He thought, "I will stay here and grow fat at their
expense." But, soon after, one ran into the lodge out of breath, saying, "We are visited by
Indians." All huddled together in great fear. The water began to lower, for the hunters had
broken down the dam, and they soon heard them on the roof of the lodge breaking it up. Out
jumped all the beavers into the water, and so escaped. Paup-Puk-Keewiss tried to follow them;
but, alas! they had made him so large that he could not creep out of the hole. He tried to
call them back, but to no effect; he worried himself so much in trying to escape, that he looked
like a bladder. He could not turn himself back into a man, although he heard and understood
all the hunters said. One of them put his head in at the top of the lodge.

"Ty-au!" cried he; "Tut Ty-au! Me-shau-mik--king of the beavers is in." They all got at him,
and knocked his skull till it was as soft as his brains. He thought, as well as ever he did,
although he was a beaver. Seven or eight of them then placed his body on poles and carried
him home. As they went, he reflected in this manner: "What will become of me? my ghost or shadow
will not die after they get me to their lodges." Invitations were immediately sent out for
a grand feast. The women took him out into the snow to skin him; but, as soon as his flesh
got cold, his Jee-bi went off.

Paup-Puk-Keewiss found himself standing near a prairie, having reassumed his mortal shape.
After walking a distance, he saw a herd of elk feeding. He admired the apparent ease and enjoyment
of their life, and thought there could be nothing pleasanter than the liberty of running about
and feeding on the prairies. He asked them if they could not turn him into their shape.

"Yes," they answered, after a pause. "Get down on your hands and feet." And he soon found himself
an elk.

"I want big horns, big feet," said he; "I wish to be very large."

"Yes! yes!" they said.

"There!" exerting their power; "are you big enough?"

"Yes!" he answered, for he saw that he was very large. They spent a good time in grazing and
running. Being rather cold one day, he went into a thick wood for shelter, and was followed
by most of the herd. They had not been long there before some elks from behind passed the others
like a strong wind. All took the alarm, and off they ran, he with the rest.

"Keep out on the plains," they said.

But he found it was too late, as they had already got entangled in the thick woods. Paup-Puk-Keewiss
soon smelt the hunters, who were closely following his trail, for they had left all the others
and followed him. He jumped furiously, and broke down saplings in his flight, but it only served
to retard his progress. He soon felt an arrow in his side; he jumped over trees in his agony,
but the arrows clattered thicker and thicker upon his sides, and at last one entered his heart.
He fell to the ground, and heard the whoop of triumph sounded by the hunters. On coming up,
they looked on the carcass with astonishment, and with their hands up to their mouths exclaimed
Ty-au! Ty-au! There were about sixty in the party, who had come out on a special hunt, as one
of their number had, the day before, observed his large tracks on the plains. After skinning
him and his flesh getting cold, his Jee-bi took its flight from the carcass, and he again found
himself in human shape, with a bow and arrows.

But his passion for adventure was not yet cooled; for, on coming to a large lake with a sandy
beach, he saw a large flock of brant, and, speaking to them, asked them to turn him into a brant.

"Yes," they replied.

"But I want to be very large," he said.

"Very well," they answered; and he soon found himself a large brant, all the others standing
gazing in astonishment at his large size.

"You must fly as leader," they said.

"No," answered Paup-Puk-Keewiss, "I will fly behind."

"Very well," they said. "One thing more we have to say to you. You must be careful, in flying,
not to look down, for something may happen to you."

"Well! it is so," said he; and soon the flock rose up into the air, for they were bound north.
They flew very fast, he behind. One day, while going with a strong wind, and as swift as their
wings could flap, while passing over a large village, the Indians raised a great shout on seeing
them, particularly on Paup-Puk-Keewiss's account, for his wings were broader than two large
aupukwa.[35] They made such a noise, that he forgot what had been told him, about looking down.
They were now going as swift as arrows; and, as soon as he brought his neck in and stretched
it down to look at the shouters, his tail was caught by the wind, and over and over he was
blown. He tried to right himself, but without success. Down, down he went, making more turns
than he wished for, from a height of several miles. The first thing he knew was, that he was
jammed into a large hollow tree. To get back or forward was out of the question, and there
he remained till his brant life was ended by starvation. His Jee-bi again left the carcass,
and he once more found himself in the shape of a human being.

Travelling was still his passion; and, while travelling, he came to a lodge in which were two
old men with heads white from age. They treated him well, and he told them that he was going
back to his village to see his friends and people. They said they would aid him, and pointed
out the direction he should go; but they were deceivers. After walking all day, he came to
a lodge looking very much like the first, with two old men in it with white heads. It was,
in fact, the very same lodge, and he had been walking in a circle; but they did not undeceive
him, pretending to be strangers, and saying, in a kind voice, "We will show you the way." After
walking the third day, and coming back to the same place, he found them out in their tricks,
for he had cut a notch on the doorpost.

"Who are you," said he to them, "to treat me so?" and he gave one a kick and the other a slap,
which killed them. Their blood flew against the rocks near the lodge, and this is the reason
there are red streaks in them to this day. He then burned their lodge down, and freed the earth
of two pretended good men, who were manitoes.

He then continued his journey, not knowing exactly which way to go. At last he came to a big
lake. He got on the highest hill to try and see the opposite side, but he could not. He then
made a canoe, and took a sail into the lake. On looking into the water, which was very clear,
before he got to the abrupt depth, he saw the bottom covered with dark fishes, numbers of which
he caught. This inspired him with a wish to return to his village and to bring his people to
live near this lake. He went on, and towards evening came to a large island, where he encamped
and ate the fish he had speared.

Next day he returned to the main land, and, in wandering along the shore, he encountered a
more powerful manito than himself, called Manabozho. He thought best, after playing him a trick,
to keep out of his way. He again thought of returning to his village; and, transforming himself
into a partridge, took his flight towards it. In a short time he reached it, and his return
was welcomed with feastings and songs. He told them of the lake and the fish, and persuaded
them all to remove to it, as it would be easier for them to live there. He immediately began
to remove them by short encampments, and all things turned out as he had said. They caught
abundance of fish. After this, a messenger came for him in the shape of a bear, who said that
their king wished to see him immediately at his village. Paup-Puk-Keewiss was ready in an instant;
and, getting on to the messenger's back, off he ran. Towards evening they went up a high mountain,
and came to a cave where the bear-king lived. He was a very large person, and made him welcome
by inviting him into his lodge. As soon as propriety allowed, he spoke, and said that he had
sent for him on hearing that he was the chief who was moving a large party towards his hunting-grounds.

"You must know," said he, "that you have no right there. And I wish you would leave the country
with your party, or else the strongest force will take possession."

"Very well," replied Paup-Puk-Keewiss. "So be it." He did not wish to do anything without consulting
his people; and besides, he saw that the bear-king was raising a war party. He then told him
he would go back that night. The bear-king left him to do as he wished, but told him that one
of his young men was ready at his command; and, immediately jumping on his back, Paup-Puk-Keewiss
rode home. He assembled the village, and told the young men to kill the bear, make a feast
of it, and hang the head outside the village, for he knew the bear spies would soon see it,
and carry the news to their chief.

Next morning Paup-Puk-Keewiss got all his young warriors ready for a fight. After waiting one
day, the bear war-party came in sight, making a tremendous noise. The bear-chief advanced,
and said that he did not wish to shed the blood of the young warriors; but that if he, Paup-Puk-Keewiss,
consented, they two would have a race, and the winner should kill the losing chief, and all
his young men should be slaves to the other. Paup-Puk-Keewiss agreed, and they ran before all
the warriors. He was victor, and came in first; but, not to terminate the race too soon, he
gave the bear-chief some specimens of his skill and swiftness by forming eddies and whirlwinds
with the sand, as he leaped and turned about him. As the bear-chief came up, he drove an arrow
through him, and a great chief fell. Having done this, he told his young men to take all those
blackfish (meaning the bears), and tie them at the door of each lodge, that they might remain
in future to serve as servants.

After seeing that all was quiet and prosperous in the village, Paup-Puk-Keewiss felt his desire
for adventure returning. He took a kind leave of his friends and people, and started off again.
After wandering a long time, he came to the lodge of Manabozho, who was absent. He thought
he would play him a trick, and so turned everything in the lodge upside down, and killed his
chickens. Now Manabozho calls all the fowls of the air his chickens; and among the number was
a raven, the meanest of birds, which Paup-Puk-Keewiss killed and hung up by the neck to insult
him. He then went on till he came to a very high point of rocks running out into the lake,
from the top of which he could see the country back as far as the eye could reach. While sitting
there, Manabozho's mountain chickens flew round and past him in great numbers. So, out of spite,
he shot them in great numbers, for his arrows were sure and the birds very plenty, and he amused
himself by throwing the birds down the rocky precipice. At length a wary bird cried out, "Paup-Puk-Keewiss
is killing us. Go and tell our father." Away flew a delegation of them, and Manabozho soon
made his appearance on the plain below. Paup-Puk-Keewiss made his escape on the opposite side.
Manabozho cried out from the mountain--

"The earth is not so large but I can get up to you." Off Paup-Puk-Keewiss ran, and Manabozho
after him. He ran over hills and prairies with all his speed, but still saw his pursuer hard
after him. He thought of this expedient. He stopped and climbed a large pine-tree, stripped
it of all its green foliage, and threw it to the winds, and then went on. When Manabozho reached
the spot, the tree addressed him.

"Great chief," said the tree, "will you give me my life again? Paup-Puk-Keewiss has killed me."

"Yes," replied Manabozho; and it took him some time to gather the scattered foliage, and then
renewed the pursuit. Paup-Puk-Keewiss repeated the same thing with the hemlock, and with various
other trees, for Manabozho would always stop to restore what he had destroyed. By this means
he got in advance; but Manabozho persevered, and was fast overtaking him, when Paup-Puk-Keewiss
happened to see an elk. He asked him to take him on his back, which the elk did, and for some
time he made great progress, but still Manabozho was in sight. Paup-Puk-Keewiss dismounted,
and, coming to a large sandstone rock, he broke it in pieces and scattered the grains. Manabozho
was so close upon him at this place that he had almost caught him; but the foundation of the
rock cried out,

"Haye! Ne-me-sho, Paup-Puk-Keewiss has spoiled me. Will you not restore me to life?"

"Yes," replied Manabozho; and he restored the rock to its previous shape. He then pushed on
in the pursuit of Paup-Puk-Keewiss, and had got so near as to put out his arm to seize him;
but Paup-Puk-Keewiss dodged him, and immediately raised such a dust and commotion by whirlwinds
as made the trees break, and the sand and leaves dance in the air. Again and again Manabozho's
hand was put out to catch him; but he dodged him at every turn, and kept up such a tumult of
dust, that in the thickest of it, he dashed into a hollow tree which had been blown down, and
changed himself into a snake, and crept out at the roots. Well that he did; for at the moment
he had got out, Manabozho, who is Ogee-bau-ge-mon,[36] struck it with his power, and it was
in fragments. Paup-Puk-Keewiss was again in human shape; again Manabozho pressed him hard.
At a distance he saw a very high bluff of rock jutting out into the lake, and ran for the foot
of the precipice, which was abrupt and elevated. As he came near, the local manito of the rock
opened his door and told him to come in. The door was no sooner closed than Manabozho knocked.

"Open it!" he cried, with a loud voice.

The manito was afraid of him, but he said to his guest--

"Since I have sheltered you, I would sooner die with you than open the door.

"Open it!" Manabozho again cried.

The manito kept silent. Manabozho, however, made no attempt to open it by force. He waited
a few moments. "Very well," he said; "I give you only till night to live." The manito trembled,
for he knew he would be shut up under the earth.

Night came. The clouds hung low and black, and every moment the forked lightning would flash
from them. The black clouds advanced slowly, and threw their dark shadows afar, and behind
there was heard the rumbling noise of the coming thunder. As they came near to the precipice,
the thunders broke, the lightning flashed, the ground shook, and the solid rocks split, tottered,
and fell. And under their ruins where crushed the mortal bodies of Paup-Puk-Keewiss and the manito.

It was only then that Paup-Puk-Keewiss found he was really dead. He had been killed in different
animal shapes; but now his body, in human shape, was crushed. Manabozho came and took their
Jee-bi-ug, or spirits.

"You," said he to Paup-Puk-Keewiss, "shall not be again permitted to live on the earth. I will
give you the shape of the war-eagle, and you will be the chief of all fowls, and your duty
shall be to watch over their destinies."

      [31] This word appears to be derived from the same root as
      Paup-puk-ke-nay, a grasshopper, the inflection iss making
      it personal. The Indian idea is that of harum scarum. He is
      regarded as a foil to Manabozho, with whom he is frequently
      brought in contact in aboriginal story craft.

      [32] This is an official who bears the pipe for the ruling chief,
      and is an inferior dignity in councils.

      [33] This is a studied perversion of the interjection Ho. In
      another instance (vide Wassamo) it is rendered Hoke.

      [34] We may mention, for the youth who may read these tales, that
      beavers live by gnawing the bark of trees.

      [35] Mats.

      [36] A species of lightning.

OSSEO,

OR

THE SON OF THE EVENING STAR.

ALGONQUIN LEGEND.

There once lived an Indian in the north, who had ten daughters, all of whom grew up to womanhood.
They were noted for their beauty, but especially Oweenee, the youngest, who was very independent
in her way of thinking. She was a great admirer of romantic places, and paid very little attention
to the numerous young men who came to her father's lodge for the purpose of seeing her. Her
elder sisters were all solicited in marriage from their parents, and one after another, went
off to dwell in the lodges of their husbands, or mothers-in-law, but she would listen to no
proposals of the kind. At last she married an old man called OSSEO, who was scarcely able to
walk, and was too poor to have things like others. They jeered and laughed at her, on all sides,
but she seemed to be quite happy, and said to them, "It is my choice, and you will see in the
end, who has acted the wisest." Soon after, the sisters and their husbands and their parents
were all invited to a feast, and as they walked along the path, they could not help pitying
their young and handsome sister, who had such an unsuitable mate. Osseo often stopped and gazed
upwards, but they could perceive nothing in the direction he looked, unless it was the faint
glimmering of the evening star. They heard him muttering to himself as they went along, and
one of the elder sisters caught the words, "Sho-wain-ne-me-shin nosa."[37] "Poor old man,"
said she, "he is talking to his father, what a pity it is, that he would not fall and break
his neck, that our sister might have a handsome young husband." Presently they passed a large
hollow log, lying with one end toward the path. The moment Osseo, who was of the turtle totem,
came to it, he stopped short, uttered a loud and peculiar yell, and then dashing into one end
of the log, he came out at the other, a most beautiful young man, and springing back to the
road, he led off the party with steps as light as the reindeer.[38] But on turning round to
look for his wife, behold, she had been changed into an old, decrepit woman, who was bent almost
double, and walked with a cane. The husband, however, treated her very kindly, as she had done
him during the time of his enchantment, and constantly addressed her by the term of ne-ne-moosh-a,
or my sweetheart.

When they came to the hunter's lodge with whom they were to feast, they found the feast ready
prepared, and as soon as their entertainer had finished his harangue (in which he told them
his feasting was in honor of the Evening or Woman's Star), they began to partake of the portion
dealt out, according to age and character, to each one. The food was very delicious, and they
were all happy but Osseo, who looked at his wife and then gazed upward, as if he was looking
into the substance of the sky. Sounds were soon heard, as if from far-off voices in the air,
and they became plainer and plainer, till he could clearly distinguish some of the words.

"My son--my son," said the voice, "I have seen your afflictions and pity your wants. I come
to call you away from a scene that is stained with blood and tears. The earth is full of sorrows.
Giants and sorcerers, the enemies of mankind, walk abroad in it, and are scattered throughout
its length. Every night they are lifting their voices to the Power of Evil, and every day they
make themselves busy in casting evil in the hunter's path. You have long been their victim,
but shall be their victim no more. The spell you were under is broken. Your evil genius is
overcome. I have cast him down by my superior strength, and it is this strength I now exert
for your happiness. Ascend, my son--ascend into the skies, and partake of the feast I have
prepared for you in the stars, and bring with you those you love.

"The food set before you is enchanted and blessed. Fear not to partake of it. It is endowed
with magic power to give immortality to mortals, and to change men to spirits. Your bowls and
kettles shall be no longer wood and earth. The one shall become silver, and the other wampum.
They shall shine like fire, and glisten like the most beautiful scarlet. Every female shall
also change her state and looks, and no longer be doomed to laborious tasks. She shall put
on the beauty of the starlight, and become a shining bird of the air, clothed with shining
feathers. She shall dance and not work--she shall sing and not cry."

"My beams," continued the voice, "shine faintly on your lodge, but they have a power to transform
it into the lightness of the skies, and decorate it with the colors of the clouds. Come, Osseo,
my son, and dwell no longer on earth. Think strongly on my words, and look steadfastly at my
beams. My power is now at its height. Doubt not--delay not. It is the voice of the Spirit of
the stars that calls you away to happiness and celestial rest."

The words were intelligible to Osseo, but his companions thought them some far-off sounds of
music, or birds singing in the woods. Very soon the lodge began to shake and tremble, and they
felt it rising into the air. It was too late to run out, for they were already as high as the
tops of the trees. Osseo looked around him as the lodge passed through the topmost boughs,
and behold! their wooden dishes were changed into shells of a scarlet color, the poles of the
lodge to glittering wires of silver, and the bark that covered them into the gorgeous wings
of insects. A moment more, and his brothers and sisters, and their parents and friends, were
transformed into birds of various plumage. Some were jays, some partridges and pigeons, and
others gay singing birds, who hopped about displaying their glittering feathers, and singing
their song. But Oweenee still kept her earthly garb, and exhibited all the indications of extreme
age. He again cast his eyes in the direction of the clouds, and uttered that peculiar yell,
which had given him the victory at the hollow log. In a moment the youth and beauty of his
wife returned; her dingy garments assumed the shining appearance of green silk, and her cane
was changed into a silver feather. The lodge again shook and trembled, for they were now passing
through the uppermost clouds, and they immediately after found themselves in the Evening Star,
the residence of Osseo's father.

"My son," said the old man, "hang that cage of birds, which you have brought along in your
hand, at the door, and I will inform you why you and your wife have been sent for." Osseo obeyed
the directions, and then took his seat in the lodge. "Pity was shown to you," resumed the king
of the star, "on account of the contempt of your wife's sister, who laughed at her ill fortune,
and ridiculed you while you were under the power of that wicked spirit, whom you overcame at
the log. That spirit lives in the next lodge, being a small star you see on the left of mine,
and he has always felt envious of my family, because we had greater power than he had, and
especially on account of our having had the care committed to us of the female world. He failed
in several attempts to destroy your brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law, but succeeded at last
in transforming yourself and your wife into decrepit old persons. You must be careful and not
let the light of his beams fall on you, while you are here, for therein is the power of his
enchantment; a ray of light is the bow and arrows he uses."

Osseo lived happy and contented in the parental lodge, and in due time his wife presented him
with a son, who grew up rapidly, and was the image of his father. He was very quick and ready
in learning everything that was done in his grandfather's dominions, but he wished also to
learn the art of hunting, for he had heard that this was a favorite pursuit below. To gratify
him, his father made him a bow and arrows, and he then let the birds out of the cage that he
might practise in shooting. He soon became expert, and the very first day brought down a bird,
but when he went to pick it up, to his amazement, it was a beautiful young woman with the arrow
sticking in her breast. It was one of his younger aunts. The moment her blood fell upon the
surface of that pure and spotless planet, the charm was dissolved. The boy immediately found
himself sinking, but was partly upheld, by something like wings, till he passed through the
lower clouds, and he then suddenly dropped upon a high, romantic island in a large lake. He
was pleased on looking up, to see all his aunts and uncles following him in the form of birds,
and he soon discovered the silver lodge, with his father and mother, descending with its waving
barks looking like so many insects' gilded wings. It rested on the highest cliffs of the island,
and here they fixed their residence. They all resumed their natural shapes, but were diminished
to the size of fairies; as a mark of homage to the King of the Evening Star, they never failed,
on every pleasant evening, during the summer season, to join hands, and dance upon the top
of the rocks. These rocks were quickly observed by the Indians to be covered, in moonlight
evenings, with a larger sort of Puk Wudj Ininees, or little men, and were called Mish-in-e-mok-in-ok-ong,
or turtle spirits, and the island is named from them to this day.[39] Their shining lodge can
be seen in the summer evenings when the moon shines strongly on the pinnacles of the rocks,
and the fishermen, who go near those high cliffs at night, have even heard the voices of the
happy little dancers.

      [37] Pity me, my father.

      [38] The C. Sylvestris inhabits North America, north of latitude
      46°.

      [39] Michilimackinac, the term alluded to, is the original French
      orthography of Mish En I Mok In Ong, the local form (sing. and
      plu.), of Turtle Spirits.

KWASIND,

OR

THE FEARFULLY STRONG MAN.

Pauwating[40] was a village where the young men amused themselves very much in ancient times,
in sports and ball-playing.

One day, as they were engaged in their sports, one of the strongest and most active, at the
moment he was about to succeed in a trial of lifting, slipped and fell upon his back. "Ha!
ha! ha!" cried the lookers-on, "you will never rival Kwasind." He was deeply mortified, and
when the sport was over, these words came to his mind. He could not recollect any man of this
name. He thought he would ask the old man, the story-teller of the village, the next time he
came to the lodge. The opportunity soon occurred.

"My grandfather," said he, "who was Kwasind? I am very anxious to know what he could do."

"Kwasind," the old man replied, "was a listless idle boy. He would not play when the other
boys played, and his parents could never get him to do any kind of labor. He was always making
excuses. His parents took notice, however, that he fasted for days together, but they could
not learn what spirit he supplicated, or had chosen as the guardian spirit to attend him through
life. He was so inattentive to his parents' requests, that he, at last, became a subject of
reproach.

"'Ah,' said his mother to him one day, 'is there any young man of your age, in all the village,
who does so little for his parents? You neither hunt nor fish. You take no interest in anything,
whether labor or amusement, which engages the attention of your equals in years. I have often
set my nets[41] in the coldest days of winter, without any assistance from you. And I have
taken them up again, while you remained inactive at the lodge fire. Are you not ashamed of
such idleness? Go, I bid you, and wring out that net, which I have just taken from the water.'

"Kwasind saw that there was a determination to make him obey. He did not, therefore, make any
excuses, but went out and took up the net. He carefully folded it, doubled and redoubled it,
forming it into a roll, and then with an easy twist of his hands wrung it short off, with as
much ease as if every twine had been a thin brittle fibre. Here they at once saw the secret
of his reluctance. He possessed supernatural strength.

"After this, the young men were playing one day on the plain, where there was lying one of
those large, heavy, black pieces of rock, which Manabozho is said to have cast at his father.
Kwasind took it up with much ease, and threw it into the river. After this, he accompanied
his father on a hunting excursion into a remote forest. They came to a place where the wind
had thrown a great many trees into a narrow pass. 'We must go the other way,' said the old
man, 'it is impossible to get the burdens through this place.' He sat down to rest himself,
took out his smoking apparatus, and gave a short time to reflection. When he had finished,
Kwasind had lifted away the largest pine trees, and pulled them out of the path.

"Sailing one day in his canoe, Kwasind saw a large furred animal, which he immediately recognized
to be the king of beavers. He plunged into the water in pursuit of it. His companions were
in the greatest astonishment and alarm, supposing he would perish. He often dove down and remained
a long time under water, pursuing the animal from island to island; and at last returned with
the kingly prize. After this, his fame spread far and wide, and no hunter would presume to
compete with him.

"He helped Manabozho to clear away the obstructions in the streams, and to remove the great
wind-falls of trees from the valleys, the better to fit them for the residence of man.

"He performed so many feats of strength and skill, that he excited the envy of the Puck-wudj
In-in-ee-sug, or fairies, who conspired against his life. 'For,' said they, 'if this man is
suffered to go on, in his career of strength and exploits, we shall presently have no work
to perform. Our agency in the affairs of men must cease. He will undermine our power, and drive
us, at last, into the water, where we must all perish, or be devoured by the wicked Neebanawbaig.'[42]

"The strength of Kwasind was all concentrated in the crown of his head. This was, at the same
time, the only vulnerable part of his body; and there was but one species of weapon which could
be successfully employed in making any impression upon it. The fairies carefully hunted through
the woods to find this weapon. It was the burr or seed vessel of the white pine. They gathered
a quantity of this article, and waylaid Kwasind at a point on the river, where the red rocks
jut into the water, forming rude castles--a point which he was accustomed to pass in his canoe.
They waited a long time, making merry upon these rocks, for it was a highly romantic spot.
At last the wished-for object appeared; Kwasind came floating calmly down the stream, on the
afternoon of a summer's day, languid with the heat of the weather, and almost asleep. When
his canoe came directly beneath the cliff, the tallest and stoutest fairy began the attack.
Others followed his example. It was a long time before they could hit the vulnerable part,
but success at length crowned their efforts, and Kwasind sunk, never to rise more.

"Ever since this victory, the Puck Wudj Ininee have made that point of rock a favorite resort.
The hunters often hear them laugh, and see their little plumes shake as they pass this scene
on light summer evenings.

"My son," continued the old man, "take care that you do not imitate the faults of Kwasind.
If he had not so often exerted his strength merely for the sake of boasting, he would not,
perhaps, have made the fairies feel jealous of him. It is better to use the strength you have,
in a quiet useful way, than to sigh after the possession of a giant's power. For if you run,
or wrestle, or jump, or fire at a mark, only as well as your equals in years, nobody will envy
you. But if you would needs be a Kwasind, you must expect a Kwasind's fate."

      [40] i.e. Place of shallow cataract, named Sault de Ste.
      Marie on the arrival of the French. This is the local form of
      the word, the substantive proper terminates in Eeg.

      [41] Nets are set in winter, in high northern latitudes, through
      orifices cut in the ice.

      [42] A kind of water spirits.

THE JEEBI,

OR

TWO GHOSTS.

FROM THE ODJIBWA.

There lived a hunter in the north who had a wife and one child. His lodge stood far off in
the forest, several days' journey from any other. He spent his days in hunting, and his evenings
in relating to his wife the incidents that had befallen him. As game was very abundant, he
found no difficulty in killing as much as they wanted. Just in all his acts, he lived a peaceful
and happy life.

One evening during the winter season, it chanced that he remained out later than usual, and
his wife began to feel uneasy, for fear some accident had befallen him. It was already dark.
She listened attentively, and at last heard the sound of approaching footsteps. Not doubting
it was her husband, she went to the door and beheld two strange females. She bade them enter,
and invited them to remain.

She observed that they were total strangers in the country. There was something so peculiar
in their looks, air, and manner, that she was uneasy in their company. They would not come
near the fire; they sat in a remote part of the lodge, were shy and taciturn, and drew their
garments about them in such a manner as nearly to hide their faces. So far as she could judge,
they were pale, hollow-eyed, and long-visaged, very thin and emaciated. There was but little
light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and served by its fitful flashes, rather to increase
than dispel their fears. "Merciful spirit!" cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge,
"there are two corpses clothed with garments." The hunter's wife turned around, but seeing
nobody, she concluded the sounds were but gusts of wind. She trembled, and was ready to sink
to the earth.

Her husband at this moment entered and dispelled her fears. He threw down the carcass of a
large fat deer. "Behold what a fine and fat animal," cried the mysterious females, and they
immediately ran and pulled off pieces of the whitest fat,[43] which they ate with greediness.
The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. They supposed their
guests might have been famished. Next day, however, the same unusual conduct was repeated.
The strange females tore off the fat and devoured it with eagerness. The third day the hunter
thought he would anticipate their wants by tying up a portion of the fattest pieces for them,
which he placed on the top of his load. They accepted it, but still appeared dissatisfied,
and went to the wife's portion and tore off more. The man and his wife felt surprised at such
rude and unaccountable conduct, but they remained silent, for they respected their guests,
and had observed that they had been attended with marked good luck during the residence of
these mysterious visitors.

In other respects, the deportment of the females was strictly unexceptionable. They were modest,
distant, and silent. They never uttered a word during the day. At night they would occupy themselves
in procuring wood, which they carried to the lodge, and then returning the implements exactly
to the places in which they had found them, resume their places without speaking. They were
never known to stay out until daylight. They never laughed or jested.

The winter had nearly passed away, without anything uncommon happening, when, one evening,
the hunter stayed out very late. The moment he entered and laid down his day's hunt as usual
before his wife, the two females began to tear off the fat, in so unceremonious a way, that
her anger was excited. She constrained herself, however, in a measure, but did not conceal
her feelings, although she said but little. The guests observed the excited state of her mind,
and became unusually reserved and uneasy. The good hunter saw the change, and carefully inquired
into the cause, but his wife denied having used any hard words. They retired to their couches,
and he tried to compose himself to sleep, but could not, for the sobs and sighs of the two
females were incessant. He arose on his couch and addressed them as follows:--

"Tell me," said he, "what is it that gives you pain of mind, and causes you to utter those
sighs. Has my wife given you offence, or trespassed on the rights of hospitality?"

They replied in the negative. "We have been treated by you with kindness and affection. It
is not for any slight we have received that we weep. Our mission is not to you only. We come
from the land of the dead to test mankind, and to try the sincerity of the living. Often we
have heard the bereaved by death say that if the dead could be restored, they would devote
their lives to make them happy. We have been moved by the bitter lamentations which have reached
the place of the dead, and have come to make proof of the sincerity of those who have lost
friends. Three moons were allotted us by the Master of Life to make the trial. More than half
the time had been successfully past, when the angry feelings of your wife indicated the irksomeness
you felt at our presence, and has made us resolve on our departure."

They continued to talk to the hunter and his wife, gave them instructions as to a future life,
and pronounced a blessing upon them.

"There is one point," they added, "of which we wish to speak. You have thought our conduct
very strange in rudely possessing ourselves of the choicest parts of your hunt. That was the
point of trial selected to put you to. It is the wife's peculiar privilege. For another to
usurp it, we knew to be the severest trial of her, and consequently of your temper and feelings.
We know your manners and customs, but we came to prove you, not by a compliance with them,
but a violation of them. Pardon us. We are the agents of him who sent us. Peace to your dwelling,
adieu!"

When they ceased, total darkness filled the lodge. No object could be seen. The inmates heard
the door open and shut, but they never saw more of the two Jeebi-ug.

The hunter found the success which they had promised. He became celebrated in the chase, and
never wanted for anything. He had many children, all of whom grew up to manhood, and health;
peace, and long life were the rewards of his hospitality.

      [43] The fat of animals is esteemed by the N.A. Indians among
      the choicest parts.

IAGOO.

CHIPPEWA.

Iagoo is the name of a personage noted in Indian lore for having given extravagant narrations
of whatever he had seen, heard, or accomplished. It seems that he always saw extraordinary
things, made extraordinary journeys, and performed extraordinary feats. He could not look out
of his lodge and see things as other men did. If he described a bird, it had a most singular
variety of brilliant plumage. The animals he met with were all of the monstrous kind; they
had eyes like orbs of fire, and claws like hooks of steel, and could step over the top of an
Indian lodge. He told of a serpent he had seen, which had hair on its neck like a mane, and
feet resembling a quadruped; and if one were to take his own account of his exploits and observations,
it would be difficult to decide whether his strength, his activity, or his wisdom should be
most admired.

Iagoo did not appear to have been endowed with the ordinary faculties of other men. His eyes
appeared to be magnifiers, and the tympanum of his ears so constructed that what appeared to
common observers to be but the sound of a zephyr, to him had a far closer resemblance to the
noise of thunder. His imagination appeared to be of so exuberant a character, that he scarcely
required more than a drop of water to construct an ocean, or a grain of sand to form the earth.
And he had so happy an exemption from both the restraints of judgment and moral accountability,
that he never found the slightest difficulty in accommodating his facts to the most enlarged
credulity. Nor was his ample thirst for the marvellous ever quenched by attempts to reconcile
statements the most strange, unaccountable, and preposterous.

Such was Iagoo, the Indian story-teller, whose name is associated with all that is extravagant
and marvellous, and has long been established in the hunter's vocabulary as a perfect synonym
for liar, and is bandied about as a familiar proverb. If a hunter or warrior, in telling his
exploits, undertakes to embellish them; to overrate his merits, or in any other way to excite
the incredulity of his hearers, he is liable to be rebuked with the remark, "So here we have
Iagoo come again." And he seems to hold the relative rank in oral narration which our written
literature awards to Baron Munchausen, Jack Falstaff, and Captain Lemuel Gulliver.

Notwithstanding all this, there are but a few scraps of his actual stories to be found. He
first attracted notice by giving an account of a water lily, a single leaf of which, he averred,
was sufficient to make a petticoat and upper garments for his wife and daughter. One evening
he was sitting in his lodge, on the banks of a river, and hearing the quacking of ducks on
the stream, he fired through the lodge door at a venture. He killed a swan that happened to
be flying by, and twenty brace of ducks in the stream. But this did not check the force of
his shot; they passed on, and struck the heads of two loons, at the moment they were coming
up from beneath the water, and even went beyond and killed a most extraordinary large fish
called Moshkeenozha.[44] On another occasion he had killed a deer, and after skinning it, was
carrying the carcass on his shoulders, when he spied some stately elks on the plain before
him. He immediately gave them chase, and had run, over hill and dale, a distance of half a
day's travel, before he recollected that he had the deer's carcass on his shoulders.

One day, as he was passing over a tract of mushkeeg or bog-land, he saw musquitoes of such
enormous size, that he staked his reputation on the fact that a single wing of one of the insects
was sufficient for a sail to his canoe, and the proboscis as big as his wife's shovel. But
he was favored with a still more extraordinary sight, in a gigantic ant, which passed him,
as he was watching a beaver's lodge, dragging the entire carcass of a hare.

At another time, for he was ever seeing or doing something wonderful, he got out of smoking
weed, and in going into the woods in search of some, he discovered a bunch of the red willow,
or maple bush, of such a luxuriant growth, that he was industriously occupied half a day walking
round it.

      [44] The muscalunge.

SHAWONDASEE.

FROM THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE ODJIBWAS.

Mudjekewis and nine brothers conquered the Mammoth Bear, and obtained the Sacred Belt of Wampum,
the great object of previous warlike enterprise, and the great means of happiness to men. The
chief honor of this achievement was awarded to Mudjekewis, the youngest of the ten, who received
the government of the West Winds. He is therefore called Kabeyun, the father of the winds.
To his son, Wabun, he gave the East; to Shawondasee, the south, and to Kabibonokka, the north.
Manabozho being an illegitimate son, was left unprovided. When he grew up, and obtained the
secret of his birth, he went to war against his father, Kabeyun, and having brought the latter
to terms, he received the government of the Northwest Winds, ruling jointly with his brother
Kabibonokka the tempests from that quarter of the heavens.

Shawondasee is represented as an affluent, plethoric old man, who has grown unwieldy from repletion,
and seldom moves. He keeps his eyes steadfastly fixed on the north. When he sighs, in autumn,
we have those balmy southern airs, which communicate warmth and delight over the northern hemisphere,
and make the Indian Summer.

One day, while gazing toward the north, he beheld a beautiful young woman of slender and majestic
form, standing on the plains. She appeared in the same place for several days, but what most
attracted his admiration, was her bright and flowing locks of yellow hair. Ever dilatory, however,
he contented himself with gazing. At length he saw, or fancied he saw, her head enveloped in
a pure white mass like snow. This excited his jealousy toward his brother Kabibonokka, and
he threw out a succession of short and rapid sighs--when lo! the air was filled with light
filaments of a silvery hue, but the object of his affections had for ever vanished. In reality,
the southern airs had blown off the fine-winged seed-vessels of the prairie dandelion.

"My son," said the narrator, "it is not wise to differ in our tastes from other people; nor
ought we to put off, through slothfulness, what is best done at once. Had Shawondasee conformed
to the tastes of his countrymen, he would not have been an admirer of yellow hair; and if he
had evinced a proper activity in his youth, his mind would not have run flower-gathering in
his age."

PUCK WUDJ ININEES,

OR

THE VANISHING LITTLE MEN.

AN ODJIBWA MYTH OF FAIRIES.

There was a time when all the inhabitants of the earth had died, excepting two helpless children,
a baby boy and a little girl. When their parents died, these children were asleep. The little
girl, who was the elder, was the first to wake. She looked around her, but seeing nobody besides
her little brother, who lay asleep, she quietly resumed her bed. At the end of ten days her
brother moved without opening his eyes. At the end of ten days more he changed his position,
lying on the other side.

The girl soon grew up to woman's estate, but the boy increased in stature very slowly. It was
a long time before he could even creep. When he was able to walk, his sister made him a little
bow and arrows, and suspended around his neck a small shell, saying, you shall be called Wa-Dais-Ais-Imid,
or He of the Little Shell. Every day he would go out with his little bow, shooting at the small
birds. The first bird he killed was a tomtit. His sister was highly pleased when he took it
to her. She carefully skinned and stuffed it, and put it away for him. The next day he killed
a red squirrel. His sister preserved this too. The third day he killed a partridge (Peéna),
which she stuffed and set up. After this, he acquired more courage, and would venture some
distance from home. His skill and success as a hunter daily increased, and he killed the deer,
bear, moose, and other large animals inhabiting the forest. In fine he became a great hunter.

He had now arrived to maturity of years, but remained a perfect infant in stature. One day,
walking about, he came to a small lake. It was in the winter season. He saw a man on the ice
killing beavers. He appeared to be a giant. Comparing himself to this great man he appeared
no bigger than an insect. He seated himself on the shore, and watched his movements. When the
large man had killed many beavers, he put them on a hand sled which he had, and pursued his
way home. When he saw him retire, he followed him, and wielding his magic shell, cut off the
tail of one of the beavers, and ran home with his trophy. When the tall stranger reached his
lodge, with his sled load of beavers, he was surprised to find the tail of one of them gone,
for he had not observed the movements of the little hero of the shell.

The next day Wa-Dis-Ais-Imid, went to the same lake. The man had already fixed his load of
beavers on his odaw'bon, or sled, and commenced his return. But he nimbly ran forward, and
overtaking him, succeeded, by the same means, in securing another of the beaver's tails. When
the man saw that he had lost another of this most esteemed part of the animal, he was very
angry. I wonder, said he, what dog it is, that has thus cheated me. Could I meet him, I would
make his flesh quiver at the point of my lance. Next day he pursued his hunting at the beaver
dam near the lake, and was followed again by the little man of the shell. On this occasion
the hunter had used so much expedition, that he had accomplished his object, and nearly reached
his home, before our tiny hero could overtake him. He nimbly drew his shell and cut off another
beaver's tail. In all these pranks, he availed himself of his power of invisibility, and thus
escaped observation. When the man saw that the trick had been so often repeated, his anger
was greater than ever. He gave vent to his feelings in words. He looked carefully around to
see whether he could discover any tracks. But he could find none. His unknown visitor had stepped
so lightly as to leave no track.

Next day he resolved to disappoint him by going to his beaver pond very early. When Wa-Dais-Ais-Imid
reached the place, he found the fresh traces of his work, but he had already returned. He followed
his tracks, but failed to overtake him. When he came in sight of the lodge the stranger was
in front of it, employed in skinning his beavers. As he stood looking at him, he thought, I
will let him see me. Presently the man, who proved to be no less a personage than Manabozho,
looked up and saw him. After regarding him with attention, "Who are you, little man," said
Manabozho. "I have a mind to kill you." The little hero of the shell replied, "If you were
to try to kill me you could not do it."

When he returned home he told his sister that they must separate. "I must go away," said he,
"it is my fate. You too," he added, "must go away soon. Tell me where you would wish to dwell."
She said, "I would like to go to the place of the breaking of daylight. I have always loved
the east. The earliest glimpses of light are from that quarter, and it is, to my mind, the
most beautiful part of the heavens. After I get there, my brother, whenever you see the clouds
in that direction of various colors, you may think that your sister is painting her face."

"And I," said he, "my sister, shall live on the mountains and rocks. There I can see you at
the earliest hour, and there the streams of water are clear, and the air pure. And I shall
ever be called Puck Wudj Ininee, or the little wild man of the mountains."

"But," he resumed, "before we part forever, I must go and try to find some Manitoes." He left
her, and travelled over the surface of the globe, and then went far down into the earth. He
had been treated well wherever he went. At last he found a giant Manito, who had a large kettle
which was forever boiling. The giant regarded him with a stern look, and then took him up in
his hand, and threw him unceremoniously into the kettle. But by the protection of his personal
spirit, he was shielded from harm, and with much ado got out of it and escaped. He returned
to his sister, and related his rovings and misadventures. He finished his story by addressing
her thus: "My sister, there is a Manito, at each of the four corners of the earth.[45] There
is also one above them, far in the sky; and last," continued he, "there is another, and wicked
one, who lives deep down in the earth. We must now separate. When the winds blow from the four
corners of the earth you must then go. They will carry you to the place you wish. I go to the
rocks and mountains, where my kindred will ever delight to dwell." He then took his ball stick,
and commenced running up a high mountain, whooping as he went. Presently the winds blew, and,
as he predicted, his sister was borne by them to the eastern sky, where she has ever since
been, and her name is the Morning Star.

    Blow, winds, blow! my sister lingers
      For her dwelling in the sky,
    Where the morn, with rosy fingers,
      Shall her cheeks with vermil dye.

    There, my earliest views directed,
      Shall from her their color take,
    And her smiles, through clouds reflected,
      Guide me on, by wood or lake.

    While I range the highest mountains,
      Sport in valleys green and low,
    Or beside our Indian fountains
      Raise my tiny hip holla.

      [45] The opinion that the earth is a square and level plain, and
      that the winds blow from its four corners, is a very ancient
      eastern opinion.

PEZHIU AND WABOSE,

OR

THE LYNX AND HARE.

A CHIPPEWA FABLE.

A lynx almost famished, met a hare one day in the woods, in the winter season, when food was
very scarce. The hare, however, stood up on a rock, and was safe from its enemy.

"Wabose," said the lynx, in a very kind manner, "come here, my little white one,[46] I wish
to talk to you."

"Oh no," replied the hare, "I am afraid of you, and my mother told me never to go and talk
to strangers."

"You are very pretty," answered the lynx, "and a very obedient child to your parents, but you
must know that I am a relative of yours. I wish to send some word to your lodge. Come down
and see me."

The hare was pleased to be called pretty, and when she heard that it was a relative, she jumped
down from the place where she stood, and was immediately torn in pieces by the lynx.[47]

       [46] Such is the meaning of Wabose.

       [47] Oneóta.

PEBOAN AND SEEGWUN.

AN ALLEGORY OF WINTER AND SPRING.

ODJIBWA.

An old man was sitting in his lodge, by the side of a frozen stream. It was the close of winter,
and his fire was almost out. He appeared very old and very desolate. His cheeks were red with
the blood of youth, his eyes sparkled with animation, and a smile played upon his lips. He
walked with a light and quick step. Let us pass the night together. I will tell you of my prowess
and exploits, and what I can perform. You shall do the same, and we will amuse ourselves."

He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco,
rendered mild by an admixture of certain leaves, handed it to his guest. When this ceremony
was concluded they began to speak.

"I blow my breath," said the old man, "and the streams stand still. The water becomes stiff
and hard as clear stone."

"I breathe," said the young man, "and flowers spring up all over the plains."

"I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. The leaves fall from the
trees at my command, and my breath blows them away. The birds get up from the water, and fly
to a distant land. The animals hide themselves from my breath, and the very ground becomes
as hard as flint." The plants lift up their heads out of the earth, like the eyes of children
glistening with delight. My voice recalls the birds. The warmth of my breath unlocks the streams.
Music fills the groves wherever I walk, and all nature rejoices."

At length the sun began to rise. A gentle warmth came over the place. The tongue of the old
man became silent.

Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer. When he looked upon
him, he had the icy visage of Peboan.[48] Streams began to flow from his eyes. As the sun increased,
he grew less and less in stature, and anon had melted completely away. Nothing remained on
the place of his lodge fire but the miskodeed,[49] a small white flower, with a pink border,
which is one of the earliest species of northern plants.

      [48] Winter.

      [49] The Claytonia Virginica.

MON-DAW-MIN,

OR

THE ORIGIN OF INDIAN CORN.

ODJIBWA.

In times past, a poor Indian was living with his wife and children in a beautiful part of the
country. He was not only poor, but inexpert in procuring food for his family, and his children
were all too young to give him assistance. Although poor, he was a man of a kind and contented
disposition. He was always thankful to the Great Spirit for everything he received. The same
disposition was inherited by his eldest son, who had now arrived at the proper age to undertake
the ceremony of the Ke-ig-uish-im-o-win, or fast, to see what kind of a spirit would be his
guide and guardian through life. Wunzh, for this was his name, had been an obedient boy from
his infancy, and was of a pensive, thoughtful, and mild disposition, so that he was beloved
by the whole family. As soon as the first indications of spring appeared, they built him the
customary little lodge at a retired spot, some distance from their own, where he would not
be disturbed during this solemn rite. In the mean time he prepared himself, and immediately
went into it, and commenced his fast. The first few days, he amused himself, in the mornings,
by walking in the woods and over the mountains, examining the early plants and flowers, and
in this way prepared himself to enjoy his sleep, and, at the same time, stored his mind with
pleasant ideas for his dreams. While he rambled through the woods, he felt a strong desire
to know how the plants, herbs, and berries grew, without any aid from man, and why it was that
some species were good to eat, and others possessed medicinal or poisonous juices. He recalled
these thoughts to mind after he became too languid to walk about, and had confined himself
strictly to the lodge; he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to
his father and family, and to all others. I must try to find out this in my visions."

On the third day he became weak and faint, and kept his bed. He fancied, while thus lying,
that he saw a handsome young man coming down from the sky and advancing towards him. He was
richly and gayly dressed, having on a great many garments of green and yellow colors, but differing
in their deeper or lighter shades. He had a plume of waving feathers on his head, and all his
motions were graceful.

"I am sent to you, my friend," said the celestial visitor, "by that Great Spirit who made all
things in the sky and on the earth. He has seen and knows your motives in fasting. He sees
that it is from a kind and benevolent wish to do good to your people, and to procure a benefit
for them, and that you do not seek for strength in war or the praise of warriors. I am sent
to instruct you, and show you how you can do your kindred good." He then told the young man
to arise, and prepare to wrestle with him, as it was only by this means that he could hope
to succeed in his wishes. Wunzh knew he was weak from fasting, but he felt his courage rising
in his heart, and immediately got up, determined to die rather than fail. He commenced the
trial, and after a protracted effort, was almost exhausted, when the beautiful stranger said,
"My friend, it is enough for once; I will come again to try you;" and, smiling on him, he ascended
in the air in the same direction from which he came. The next day the celestial visitor reappeared
at the same hour and renewed the trial. Wunzh felt that his strength was even less than the
day before, but the courage of his mind seemed to increase in proportion as his body became
weaker. Seeing this, the stranger again spoke to him in the same words he used before, adding,
"Tomorrow will be your last trial. Be strong, my friend, for this is the only way you can overcome
me, and obtain the boon you seek." On the third day he again appeared at the same time and
renewed the struggle. The poor youth was very faint in body, but grew stronger in mind at every
contest, and was determined to prevail or perish in the attempt. He exerted his utmost powers,
and after the contest had been continued the usual time, the stranger ceased his efforts and
declared himself conquered. For the first time he entered the lodge, and sitting down beside
the youth, he began to deliver his instructions to him, telling him in what manner he should
proceed to take advantage of his victory.

"You have won your desires of the Great Spirit," said the stranger. "You have wrestled manfully.
To-morrow will be the seventh day of your fasting. Your father will give you food to strengthen
you, and as it is the last day of trial, you will prevail. I know this, and now tell you what
you must do to benefit your family and your tribe. To-morrow," he repeated, "I shall meet you
and wrestle with you for the last time; and, as soon as you have prevailed against me, you
will strip off my garments and throw me down, clean the earth of roots and weeds, make it soft,
and bury me in the spot. When you have done this, leave my body in the earth, and do not disturb
it, but come occasionally to visit the place, to see whether I have come to life, and be careful
never to let the grass or weeds grow on my grave. Once a month cover me with fresh earth. If
you follow my instructions, you will accomplish your object of doing good to your fellow-creatures
by teaching them the knowledge I now teach you." He then shook him by the hand and disappeared.

In the morning the youth's father came with some slight refreshments, saying, "My son, you
have fasted long enough. If the Great Spirit will favor you, he will do it now. I have a particular
reason for extending my fast to that hour." "Very well," said the old man, "I shall wait till
the hour arrives, and you feel inclined to eat."

At the usual hour of the day the sky-visitor returned, and the trial of strength was renewed.
Although the youth had not availed himself of his father's offer of food, he felt that new
strength had been given to him, and that exertion had renewed his strength and fortified his
courage. He grasped his angelic antagonist with supernatural strength, threw him down, took
from him his beautiful garments and plume, and finding him dead, immediately buried him on
the spot, taking all the precautions he had been told of, and being very confident, at the
same time, that his friend would again come to life. He then returned to his father's lodge,
and partook sparingly of the meal that had been prepared for him. But he never for a moment
forgot the grave of his friend. He carefully visited it throughout the spring, and weeded out
the grass, and kept the ground in a soft and pliant state. Very soon he saw the tops of the
green plumes coming through the ground; and the more careful he was to obey his instructions
in keeping the ground in order, the faster they grew. He was, however, careful to conceal the
exploit from his father. Days and weeks had passed in this way. The summer was now drawing
towards a close, when one day, after a long absence in hunting, Wunzh invited his father to
follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast. "It is my friend," shouted the
lad; "it is the friend of all mankind. It is Mondawmin.[50] We need no longer rely on hunting
alone; for, as long as this gift is cherished and taken care of, the ground itself will give
us a living." He then pulled an ear. "See, my father," said he, "this is what I fasted for.
The great Spirit has listened to my voice, and sent us something new,[51] and henceforth our
people will not alone depend upon the chase or upon the waters."

He then communicated to his father the instructions given him by the stranger. He told him
that the broad husks must be torn away, as he had pulled off the garments in his wrestling;
and having done this, directed him how the ear must be held before the fire till the outer
skin became brown, while all the milk was retained in the grain. The whole family then united
in a feast on the newly-grown ears, expressing gratitude to the Merciful Spirit who gave it.
So corn came into the world.

      [50] The Algic name for corn. The word is manifestly a trinary
      compound from monedo, spirit; min, a grain or berry; and
      iaw, the verb substantive.

      [51] The Zea mays, it will be recollected, is indigenous to
      America, and was unknown in Europe before 1495.

NEZHIK-E-WA-WA-SUN,

OR

THE LONE LIGHTNING.

ODJIBWA.

A little orphan boy who had no one to care for him, was once living with his uncle, who treated
him very badly, making him do hard things and giving him very little to eat; so that the boy
pined away, he never grew much, and became, through hard usage, very thin and light. At last
the uncle felt ashamed of this treatment, and determined to make amends for it, by fattening
him up, but his real object was, to kill him by over-feeding. He told his wife to give the
boy plenty of bear's meat, and let him have the fat, which is thought to be the best part.
They were both very assiduous in cramming him, and one day came near choking him to death,
by forcing the fat down his throat. The boy escaped and fled from the lodge. He knew not where
to go, but wandered about. When night came on, he was afraid the wild beasts would eat him,
so he climbed up into the forks of a high pine tree, and there he fell asleep in the branches,
and had an aupoway, or ominous dream.

A person appeared to him from the upper sky, and said, "My poor little lad, I pity you, and
the bad usage you have received from your uncle has led me to visit you: follow me, and step
in my tracks." Immediately his sleep left him, and he rose up and followed his guide, mounting
up higher and higher into the air, until he reached the upper sky. Here twelve arrows were
put into his hands, and he was told that there were a great many manitoes in the northern sky,
against whom he must go to war, and try to waylay and shoot them. Accordingly he went to that
part of the sky, and, at long intervals, shot arrow after arrow, until he had expended eleven,
in vain attempt to kill the manitoes. At the flight of each arrow, there was a long and solitary
streak of lightning in the sky--then all was clear again, and not a cloud or spot could be
seen. The twelfth arrow he held a long time in his hands, and looked around keenly on every
side to spy the manitoes he was after. But these manitoes were very cunning, and could change
their form in a moment. All they feared was the boy's arrows, for these were magic arrows,
which had been given to him by a good spirit, and had power to kill them, if aimed aright.
At length, the boy drew up his last arrow, settled in his aim, and let fly, as he thought,
into the very heart of the chief of the manitoes; but before the arrow reached him, the manito
changed himself into a rock. Into this rock, the head of the arrow sank deep and stuck fast.

"Now your gifts are all expended," cried the enraged manito, "and I will make an example of
your audacity and pride of heart, for lifting your bow against me"--and so saying, he transformed
the boy into the Nezhik-e-wä wä sun, or Lone Lightning, which may be observed in the northern
sky, to this day.

THE AK UK O JEESH,

OR

THE GROUNDHOG FAMILY.

AN ODJIBWA FABLE.

A female akukojeesh, or groundhog, with a numerous family of young ones, was burrowing in her
wauzh, or hole in the ground, one long winter, in the north, when the young ones became impatient
for spring. Every day the mother would go out and get roots and other things, which she brought
in to them to eat; and she always told them to lie close and keep warm, and never to venture
towards the mouth of the wauzh. But they became very impatient at last to see the light and
the green woods. "Mother," said they, "is it not almost spring?" "No! no!" said she, in a cross
humor, "keep still and wait patiently; it hails, it snows, it is cold--it is windy. Why should
you wish to go out?" This she told them so often, and said it in such a bad temper, that they
at last suspected some deception. One day she came in, after having been a long while absent,
and fell asleep, with her mouth open. The little ones peeped in slily, and saw on her teeth
the remains of the nice white bulbous roots of the mo-na-wing, or adder's tongue violet. They
at once knew it was spring, and without disturbing the old one, who only wanted to keep them
in till they were full grown, away they scampered, out of the hole, and dispersed themselves
about the forest, and so the family were all scattered.

OPEECHEE,

OR

THE ORIGIN OF THE ROBIN.

FROM THE ODJIBWA.

An old man had an only son named Opeechee, who had come to that age which is thought to be
most proper to make the long and final fast, that is to secure through life a guardian genius
or spirit. In the influence of this choice, it is well known, our people have relied for their
prosperity in after life; it was, therefore, an event of deep importance.

The old man was ambitious that his son should surpass all others in whatever was deemed most
wise and great among his tribe; and, to fulfil his wishes, he thought it necessary that he
should fast a much longer time than any of those persons, renowned for their prowess or wisdom,
whose fame he coveted. He therefore directed his son to prepare, with great ceremony, for the
important event. After he had been in the sweating lodge and bath several times, he ordered
him to lie down upon a clean mat, in a little lodge expressly prepared for him; telling him,
at the same time, to endure his fast like a man, and that, at the expiration of twelve days,
he should receive food and the blessing of his father.

The lad carefully observed this injunction, lying with perfect composure, with his face covered,
awaiting those mystic visitations which were to seal his good or evil fortune. His father visited
him regularly every morning, to encourage him to perseverance, expatiating at length on the
honor and renown that would attend him through life if he accomplished the full term prescribed.
To these admonitions and encouragements the boy never replied, but lay, without the least sign
of discontent or murmuring, until the ninth day, when he addressed his father as follows:--

"My father, my dreams forebode evil. May I break my fast now, and at a more propitious time
make a new fast?" The father answered--

"My son, you know not what you ask. If you get up now, all your glory will depart. Wait patiently
a little longer. You have but three days yet to accomplish your desire. You know it is for
your own good, and I encourage you to persevere."

The son assented; and, covering himself closer, he lay till the eleventh day, when he repeated
his request. Very nearly the same answer was given him by his father, who added that the next
day he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him. The boy remained silent,
but lay as motionless as a corpse. No one would have known he was living but by the gentle
heaving of his breast.

The next morning, the father, elated at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son,
and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door, he was surprised to hear his son
talking to himself. He stooped to listen; and, looking through a small aperture, was more astonished
when he beheld his son painted with vermilion over all his breast, and in the act of finishing
his work by laying on the paint as far back on his shoulders as he could reach with his hands,
saying, at the same time, to himself, "My father has destroyed my fortune as a man. He would
not listen to my requests. He will be the loser. I shall be forever happy in my new state,
for I have been obedient to my parent; he alone will be the sufferer, for my guardian spirit
is a just one; though not propitious to me in the manner I desired, he has shown me pity in
another way; he has given me another shape; and now I must go."

At this moment the old man broke in, exclaiming, "My son! my son! I pray you leave me not."
But the young man, with the quickness of a bird, had flown to the top of the lodge, and perched
himself on the highest pole, having been changed into a beautiful robin redbreast.

He looked down upon his father with pity beaming in his eyes, and addressed him as follows:
"Regret not, my father, the change you behold. I shall be happier in my present state than
I could have been as a man. I shall always be the friend of men, and keep near their dwellings.
I shall ever be happy and contented; and although I could not gratify your wishes as a warrior,
it will be my daily aim to make you amends for it as a harbinger of peace and joy. I will cheer
you by my songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness I feel in my present
state. This will be some compensation to you for the loss of the glory you expected. I am now
free from the cares and pains of human life. My food is spontaneously furnished by the mountains
and fields, and my pathway of life is in the bright air." Then stretching himself on his toes,
as if delighted with the gift of wings, he carolled one of his sweetest songs, and flew away
into a neighboring grove.[52]

      [52] See Notes of the Pibbigwun.

SHINGEBISS.

AN ALLEGORY OF SELF-RELIANCE.

FROM THE ODJIBWA.

There was once a Shingebiss, the name of the fall duck living alone, in a solitary lodge, on
the shores of the deep bay of a lake, in the coldest winter weather. The ice had formed on
the water, and he had but four logs of wood to keep his fire. Each of these would, however,
burn a month, and as there were but four cold winter months, they were sufficient to carry
him through till spring.

Shingebiss was hardy and fearless, and cared for no one. He would go out during the coldest
day, and seek for places where flags and rushes grew through the ice, and plucking them up
with his bill, would dive through the openings, in quest of fish. In this way he found plenty
of food, while others were starving, and he went home daily to his lodge, dragging strings
of fish after him, on the ice.

Kabebonicca[53] observed him, and felt a little piqued at his perseverance and good luck in
defiance of the severest blasts of wind he could send from the northwest. "Why! this is a wonderful
man," said he; "he does not mind the cold, and appears as happy and contented as if it were
the month of June. I will try whether he cannot be mastered." He poured forth tenfold colder
blasts, and drifts of snow, so that it was next to impossible to live in the open air. Still,
the fire of Shingebiss did not go out: he wore but a single strip of leather around his body,
and he was seen, in the worst weather, searching the shores for rushes, and carrying home fish.

"I shall go and visit him," said Kabebonicca, one day, as he saw Shingebiss dragging along
a quantity of fish. And, accordingly, that very night, he went to the door of his lodge. Meantime
Shingebiss had cooked his fish, and finished his meal, and was lying, partly on his side, before
the fire, singing his songs. After Kabebonicca had come to the door, and stood listening there,
he sang as follows:--

    Ka       Neej       Ka       Neej
    Be       In         Be       In
    Bon      In         Bon      In
    Oc       Ee.        Oc       Ee.
    Ca       We-ya!     Ca       We-ya!

The number of words, in this song, are few and simple, but they are made up from compounds
which carry the whole of their original meanings, and are rather suggestive of the ideas floating
in the mind than actual expressions of those ideas. Literally, he sings:--

    Spirit of the Northwest--you are but my fellow man.

By being broken into syllables, to correspond with a simple chant, and by the power of intonation
and repetition, with a chorus, these words are expanded into melodious utterance, if we may
be allowed the term, and may be thus rendered:--

    Windy god, I know your plan,
    You are but my fellow man;
    Blow you may your coldest breeze,
    Shingebiss you cannot freeze.
    Sweep the strongest wind you can,
    Shingebiss is still your man;
    Heigh! for life--and ho! for bliss,
    Who so free as Shingebiss?

The hunter knew that Kabebonicca was at his door, for he felt his cold and strong breath; but
he kept on singing his songs, and affected utter indifference. At length Kabebonicca entered,
and took his seat on the opposite side of the lodge. But Shingebiss did not regard, or notice
him. He got up, as if nobody were present, and taking his poker, pushed the log, which made
his fire burn brighter, repeating, as he sat down again:--

    You are but my fellow man.

Very soon the tears began to flow down Kabebonicca's cheeks, which increased so fast, that,
presently, he said to himself: "I cannot stand this--I must go out." He did so, and left Shingebiss
to his songs; but resolved to freeze up all the flag orifices, and make the ice thick, so that
he could not get any more fish. Still, Shingebiss, by dint of great diligence, found means
to pull up new roots, and dive under for fish. At last, Kabebonicca was compelled to give up
the contest. "He must be aided by some Monedo," said he. "I can neither freeze him nor starve
him; he is a very singular being--I will let him alone."

      [53] A personification of the Northwest.

THE STAR FAMILY,

OR

CELESTIAL SISTERS.

SHAWNEE.

Waupee, or the White Hawk, lived in a remote part of the forest, where animals and birds were
abundant. Every day he returned from the chase with the reward of his toil, for he was one
of the most skilful and celebrated hunters of his tribe. With a tall, manly form, and the fire
of youth beaming from his eye, there was no forest too gloomy for him to penetrate, and no
track made by the numerous kinds of birds and beasts which he could not follow.

One day he penetrated beyond any point which he had before visited. He travelled through an
open forest, which enabled him to see a great distance. At length he beheld a light breaking
through the foliage, which made him sure that he was on the borders of a prairie. It was a
wide plain covered with grass and flowers. After walking some time without a path, he suddenly
came to a ring worn through the sod, as if it had been made by footsteps following a circle.
But what excited his surprise was, that there was no path leading to or from it. Not the least
trace of footsteps could be found, even in a crushed leaf or broken twig. He thought he would
hide himself, and lie in wait to see what this circle meant. Presently he heard the faint sounds
of music in the air. He looked up in the direction they came from, and saw a small object descending
from above. At first it looked like a mere speck, but rapidly increased, and, as it came down,
the music became plainer and sweeter. It assumed the form of a basket, and was filled with
twelve sisters of the most lovely forms and enchanting beauty. As soon as the basket touched
the ground, they leaped out, and began to dance round the magic ring, striking, as they did
so, a shining ball as we strike the drum. Waupee gazed upon their graceful forms and motions
from his place of concealment. He admired them all, but was most pleased with the youngest.
Unable longer to restrain his admiration, he rushed out and endeavored to seize her. But the
sisters, with the quickness of birds, the moment they descried the form of a man, leaped back
into the basket and were drawn up into the sky.

Regretting his ill luck and indiscretion, he gazed till he saw them disappear, and then said,
"They are gone, and I shall see them no more." He returned to his solitary lodge, but found
no relief to his mind. Next day he went back to the prairie, and took his station near the
ring; but in order to deceive the sisters, he assumed the form of an opossum. He had not waited
long, when he saw the wicker car descend, and heard the same sweet music. They commenced the
same sportive dance, and seemed even more beautiful and graceful than before. He crept slowly
towards the ring, but the instant the sisters saw him they were startled, and sprang into their
car. It rose but a short distance, when one of the elder sisters spoke. "Perhaps," said she,
"it is come to show us how the game is played by mortals." "Oh no!" the youngest replied; "quick,
let us ascend." And all joining in a chant, they rose out of sight.

Waupee returned to his own form again, and walked sorrowfully back to his lodge. But the night
seemed a very long one, and he went back betimes the next day. He reflected upon the sort of
plan to follow to secure success. He found an old stump near by, in which there were a number
of mice. He thought their small form would not create alarm, and accordingly assumed it. He
brought the stump and sat it up near the ring. The sisters came down and resumed their sport.
"But see," cried the younger sister, "that stump was not there before." She ran affrighted
towards the car. They only smiled, and gathering round the stump, struck it in jest, when out
ran the mice, and Waupee among the rest. They killed them all but one, which was pursued by
the youngest sister; but just as she had raised her stick to kill it, the form of Waupee arose,
and he clasped his prize in his arms. The other eleven sprang to their basket and were drawn
up to the skies.

He exerted all his skill to please his bride and win her affections. He wiped the tears from
her eyes. He related his adventures in the chase. He dwelt upon the charms of life on the earth.
He was incessant in his attentions, and picked out the way for her to walk as he led her gently
towards his lodge. He felt his heart glow with joy as she entered it, and from that moment
he was one of the happiest of men. Winter and summer passed rapidly away, and their happiness
was increased by the addition of a beautiful boy to their lodge. She was a daughter of one
the stars, and as the scenes of earth began to pall her sight, she sighed to revisit her father.
But she was obliged to hide these feelings from her husband. She remembered the charm that
would carry her up, and took occasion, while Waupee was engaged in the chase, to construct
a wicker basket, which she kept concealed. In the mean time she collected such rarities from
the earth as she thought would please her father, as well as the most dainty kinds of food.
When all was in readiness, she went out one day, while Waupee was absent, to the charmed ring,
taking her little son with her. As soon as they got into the car, she commenced her song and
the basket rose. As the song was wafted by the wind, it caught her husband's ear. It was a
voice which he well knew, and he instantly ran to the prairie. But he could not reach the ring
before he saw his wife and child ascend. He lifted up his voice in loud appeals, but they were
unavailing. The basket still went up. He watched it till it became a small speck, and finally
it vanished in the sky. He then bent his head down to the ground, and was miserable.

Waupee bewailed his loss through a long winter and a long summer. But he found no relief. He
mourned his wife's loss sorely, but his son's still more. In the mean time his wife had reached
her home in the stars, and almost forgot, in the blissful employments there, that she had left
a husband on the earth. She was reminded of this by the presence of her son, who, as he grew
up, became anxious to visit the scene of his birth. His grandfather said to his daughter one
day, "Go, my child, and take your son down to his father, and ask him to come up and live with
us. But tell him to bring along a specimen of each kind of bird and animal he kills in the
chase." She accordingly took the boy and descended. Waupee, who was ever near the enchanted
spot, heard her voice as she came down the sky. His heart beat with impatience as he saw her
form and that of his son, and they were soon clasped in his arms.

He heard the message of the Star, and began to hunt with the greatest activity, that he might
collect the present. He spent whole nights, as well as days, in searching for every curious
and beautiful bird or animal. He only preserved a tail, foot, or wing of each, to identify
the species; and, when all was ready, they went to the circle and were carried up.

Great joy was manifested on their arrival at the starry plains. The Star Chief invited all
his people to a feast, and, when they had assembled, he proclaimed aloud, that each one might
take of the earthly gifts such as he liked best. A very strange confusion immediately arose.
Some chose a foot, some a wing, some a tail, and some a claw. Those who selected tails or claws
were changed into animals, and ran off; the others assumed the form of birds, and flew away.
Waupee chose a white hawk's feather. His wife and son followed his example, when each one became
a white hawk. Pleased with his transformation, and new vitality, the chief spread out gracefully
his white wings, and followed by his wife and son, descended to the earth, where the species
are still to be found.

OJEEG ANNUNG,[54]

OR

THE SUMMER-MAKER.

ODJIBWA.

There lived a celebrated hunter on the southern shores of Lake Superior, who was considered
a Manito by some, for there was nothing but what he could accomplish. He lived off the path,
in a wild, lonesome, place, with a wife whom he loved, and they were blessed with a son, who
had attained his thirteenth year. The hunter's name was Ojeeg, or the Fisher, which is the
name of an expert, sprightly little animal common to the region. He was so successful in the
chase, that he seldom returned without bringing his wife and son a plentiful supply of venison,
or other dainties of the woods. As hunting formed his constant occupation, his son began early
to emulate his father in the same employment, and would take his bow and arrows, and exert
his skill in trying to kill birds and squirrels. The greatest impediment he met with, was the
coldness and severity of the climate. He often returned home, his little fingers benumbed with
cold, and crying with vexation at his disappointment. Days, and months, and years passed away,
but still the same perpetual depth of snow was seen, covering all the country as with a white
cloak.

One day, after a fruitless trial of his forest skill, the little boy was returning homeward
with a heavy heart, when he saw a small red squirrel gnawing the top of a pine bur. He had
approached within a proper distance to shoot, when the squirrel sat up on its hind legs and
thus addressed him:--

"My grandchild, put up your arrows, and listen to what I have to tell you." The boy complied
rather reluctantly, when the squirrel continued: "My son, I see you pass frequently, with your
fingers benumbed with cold, and crying with vexation for not having killed any birds. Now,
if you will follow my advice, we will see if you cannot accomplish your wishes. If you will
strictly pursue my advice, we will have perpetual summer, and you will then have the pleasure
of killing as many birds as you please; and I will also have something to eat, as I am now
myself on the point of starvation.

"Listen to me. As soon as you get home you must commence crying. You must throw away your bow
and arrows in discontent. If your mother asks you what is the matter, you must not answer her,
but continue crying and sobbing. If she offers you anything to eat, you must push it away with
apparent discontent, and continue crying. In the evening, when your father returns from hunting,
he will inquire of your mother what is the matter with you. She will answer that you came home
crying, and would not so much as mention the cause to her. All this while you must not leave
off sobbing. At last your father will say, 'My son, why is this unnecessary grief? Tell me
the cause. You know I am a spirit, and that nothing is impossible for me to perform.' You must
then answer him, and say that you are sorry to see the snow continually on the ground, and
ask him if he could not cause it to melt, so that we might have perpetual summer. Say it in
a supplicating way, and tell him this is the cause of your grief. Your father will reply, 'It
is very hard to accomplish your request, but for your sake, and for my love for you, I will
use my utmost endeavors.' He will tell you to be still, and cease crying. He will try to bring
summer with all its loveliness. You must then be quiet, and eat that which is set before you."

The squirrel ceased. The boy promised obedience to his advice, and departed. When he reached
home, he did as he had been instructed, and all was exactly fulfilled, as it had been predicted
by the squirrel.

Ojeeg told him that it was a great undertaking. He must first make a feast, and invite some
of his friends to accompany him on a journey. Next day he had a bear roasted whole. All who
had been invited to the feast came punctually to the appointment. There were the Otter, Beaver,
Lynx, Badger, and Wolverine. After the feast, they arranged it among themselves to set out
on the contemplated journey in three days. When the time arrived, the Fisher took leave of
his wife and son, as he foresaw that it was for the last time. He and his companions travelled
in company day after day, meeting with nothing but the ordinary incidents. On the twentieth
day they arrived at the foot of a high mountain, where they saw the tracks of some person who
had recently killed an animal, which they knew by the blood that marked the way. The Fisher
told his friends that they ought to follow the track, and see if they could not procure something
to eat. They followed it for some time; at last they arrived at a lodge, which had been hidden
from their view by a hollow in the mountain. Ojeeg told his friends to be very sedate, and
not to laugh on any account. The first object that they saw was a man standing at the door
of the lodge, but of so deformed a shape that they could not possibly make out who or what
sort of a man it could be. His head was enormously large; he had such a queer set of teeth,
and no arms. They wondered how he could kill animals. But the secret was soon revealed. He
was a great Manito. He invited them to pass the night, to which they consented.

He boiled his meat in a hollow vessel made of wood, and took it out of this singular kettle
in some way unknown to his guests. He carefully gave each their portion to eat, but made so
many odd movements that the Otter could not refrain from laughing, for he is the only one who
is spoken of as a jester. The Manito looked at him with a terrible look, and then made a spring
at him, and got on him to smother him, for that was his mode of killing animals. But the Otter,
when he felt him on his neck, slipped his head back and made for the door, which he passed
in safety; but went out with the curse of the Manito. The others passed the night, and they
conversed on different subjects. The Manito told the Fisher that he would accomplish his object,
but that it would probably cost him his life. He gave them his advice, directed them how to
act, and described a certain road which they must follow, and they would thereby be led to
the place of action.

They set off in the morning, and met their friend, the Otter, shivering with cold; but Ojeeg
had taken care to bring along some of the meat that had been given him, which he presented
to his friend. They pursued their way, and travelled twenty days more before they got to the
place which the Manito had told them of. It was a most lofty mountain. They rested on its highest
peak to fill their pipes and refresh themselves. Before smoking, they made the customary ceremony,
pointing to the heavens, the four winds, the earth, and the zenith; in the mean time, speaking
in a loud voice, addressed the Great Spirit, hoping that their object would be accomplished.
They then commenced smoking.

They gazed on the sky in silent admiration and astonishment, for they were on so elevated a
point, that it appeared to be only a short distance above their heads. After they had finished
smoking, they prepared themselves. Ojeeg told the Otter to make the first attempt to try and
make a hole in the sky. He consented with a grin. He made a leap, but fell down the hill stunned
by the force of his fall; and the snow being moist, and falling on his back, he slid with velocity
down the side of the mountain. When he found himself at the bottom, he thought to himself,
it is the last time I make such another jump, so I will make the best of my way home. Then
it was the turn of the Beaver, who made the attempt, but fell down senseless; then of the Lynx
and Badger, who had no better success.

"Now," says Fisher to the Wolverine, "try your skill; your ancestors were celebrated for their
activity, hardihood, and perseverance, and I depend on you for success. Now make the attempt."
He did so, but also without success. He leaped the second time, but now they could see that
the sky was giving way to their repeated attempts. Mustering strength, he made the third leap,
and went in. The Fisher nimbly followed him.

They found themselves in a beautiful plain, extending as far as the eye could reach, covered
with flowers of a thousand different hues and fragrance. Here and there were clusters of tall,
shady trees, separated by innumerable streams of the purest water, which wound around their
courses under the cooling shades, and filled the plain with countless beautiful lakes, whose
banks and bosom were covered with water-fowl, basking and sporting in the sun. The trees were
alive with birds of different plumage, warbling their sweet notes, and delighted with perpetual
spring.

The Fisher and his friend beheld very long lodges, and the celestial inhabitants amusing themselves
at a distance. Words cannot express the beauty and charms of the place. The lodges were empty
of inhabitants, but they saw them lined with mocuks[55] of different sizes, filled with birds
and fowls of different plumage. Ojeeg thought of his son, and immediately commenced cutting
open the mocuks and letting out the birds, who descended in whole flocks through the opening
which they had made. The warm air of those regions also rushed down through the opening, and
spread its genial influence over the north.

When the celestial inhabitants saw the birds let loose, and the warm gales descending, they
raised a shout like thunder, and ran for their lodges. But it was too late. Spring, summer,
and autumn had gone; even perpetual summer had almost all gone; but they separated it with
a blow, and only a part descended; but the ends were so mangled, that, wherever it prevails
among the lower inhabitants, it is always sickly.[56]

When the Wolverine heard the noise, he made for the opening and safely descended. Not so the
Fisher. Anxious to fulfil his son's wishes, he continued to break open the mocuks. He was,
at last, obliged to run also, but the opening was now closed by the inhabitants. He ran with
all his might over the plains of heaven, and, it would appear, took a northerly direction.
He saw his pursuers so close that he had to climb the first large tree he came to. They commenced
shooting at him with their arrows, but without effect, for all his body was invulnerable except
the space of about an inch near the tip of his tail. At last one of the arrows hit the spot,
for he had in this chase assumed the shape of the Fisher after whom he was named.

He looked down from the tree, and saw some among his assailants with the totems[57] of his
ancestors. He claimed relationship, and told them to desist, which they only did at the approach
of night. He then came down to try and find an opening in the celestial plain, by which he
might descend to the earth. But he could find none. At last, becoming faint from the loss of
blood from the wound on his tail, he laid himself down towards the north of the plain, and,
stretching out his limbs, said, "I have fulfilled my promise to my son, though it has cost
me my life; but I die satisfied in the idea that I have done so much good, not only for him,
but for my fellow-beings. Hereafter I will be a sign to the inhabitants below for ages to come,
who will venerate my name for having succeeded in procuring the varying seasons. They will
now have from eight to ten moons without snow."

He was found dead next morning, but they left him as they found him, with the arrow sticking
in his tail, as it can be plainly seen, at this time, in the heavens.

      [54] There is a group of stars in the Northern hemisphere which
      the Odjibwas call Ojeeg Annung, or the Fisher Stars. It is
      believed to be identical with the group of the Plough. They
      relate the following tale respecting it.

      [55] Baskets, or cages.

      [56] The idea here indicated is among the peculiar notions of
      these tribes, and is grafted in the forms of their language,
      which will be pointed out in the progress of these researches.

      [57] Family arms, or armorial mark.

CHILEELI,

OR

THE RED LOVER.

ODJIBWA.

Many years ago there lived a warrior on the banks of Lake Superior, whose name was Wawanosh.
He was the chief of an ancient family of his tribe, who had preserved the line of chieftainship
unbroken from a remote time, and he consequently cherished a pride of ancestry. To the reputation
of birth he added the advantages of a tall and commanding person, and the dazzling qualities
of personal strength, courage, and activity. His bow was noted for its size, and the feats
he had performed with it. His counsel was sought as much as his strength was feared, so that
he came to be equally regarded as a hunter, a warrior, and a counsellor. He had now passed
the meridian of his days, and the term Akkee-waizee, i.e., one who has been long on the earth,
was applied to him.

Such was Wawanosh, to whom the united voice of the nation awarded the first place in their
esteem, and the highest authority in council. But distinction, it seems, is apt to engender
haughtiness in the hunter state as well as civilized life. Pride was his ruling passion, and
he clung with tenacity to the distinctions which he regarded as an inheritance.

Wawanosh had an only daughter, who had now lived to witness the budding of the leaves of the
eighteenth spring. Her father was not more celebrated for his deeds of strength than she for
her gentle virtues, her slender form, her full beaming hazel eyes, and her dark and flowing hair.

                            "And through her cheek
    The blush would make its way, and all but speak.

Her hand was sought by a young man of humble parentage, who had no other merits to recommend
him but such as might arise from a tall and commanding person, a manly step, and an eye beaming
with the tropical fires of youth and love. These were sufficient to attract the favorable notice
of the daughter, but were by no means satisfactory to the father, who sought an alliance more
suitable to the rank and the high pretensions of his family.

"Listen to me, young man," he replied to the trembling hunter, who had sought the interview,
"and be attentive to my words. You ask me to bestow upon you my daughter, the chief solace
of my age, and my choicest gift from the Master of Life. Others have asked of me this boon,
who were as young, as active, and as ardent as yourself. Some of these persons have had better
claims to become my son-in-law. Have you reflected upon the deeds which have raised me in authority,
and made my name known to the enemies of my nation? Where is there a chief who is not proud
to be considered the friend of Wawanosh? Where, in all the land, is there a hunter who has
excelled Wawanosh? Where is there a warrior who can boast the taking of an equal number of
scalps? Besides, have you not heard that my fathers came from the East, bearing the marks of
chieftaincy?

"And what, young man, have you to boast? Have you ever met your enemies in the field of battle?
Have you ever brought home a trophy of victory? Have you ever proved your fortitude by suffering
protracted pain, enduring continued hunger, or sustaining great fatigue? Is your name known
beyond the humble limits of your native village? Go, then, young man, and earn a name for yourself.
It is none but the brave that can ever hope to claim an alliance with the house of Wawanosh.
Think not my warrior blood shall mingle with the humble mark of the Awasees[58]--fit totem
for fishermen!"

The intimidated lover departed, but he resolved to do a deed that should render him worthy
of the daughter of Wawanosh, or die in the attempt. He called together several of his young
companions and equals in years, and imparted to them his design of conducting an expedition
against the enemy, and requested their assistance. Several embraced the proposal immediately;
others were soon brought to acquiesce; and, before ten suns set, he saw himself at the head
of a formidable party of young warriors, all eager, like himself, to distinguish themselves
in battle. Each warrior was armed, according to the custom of the period, with a bow and a
quiver of arrows, tipped with flint or jasper. He carried a sack or wallet, provided with a
small quantity of parched and pounded corn, mixed with pemmican or maple sugar. He was furnished
with a Puggamaugun, or war-club of hard wood, fastened to a girdle of deer skin, and a stone
or copper knife. In addition to this, some carried the ancient shemagun, or lance, a smooth
pole about a fathom in length, with a javelin of flint, firmly tied on with deer's sinews.
Thus equipped, and each warrior painted in a manner to suit his fancy, and ornamented with
appropriate feathers, they repaired to the spot appointed for the war-dance.

A level, grassy plain extended for nearly a mile from the lodge of Wawanosh along the lake
shore. Lodges of bark were promiscuously interspersed over this green, and here and there a
cluster of trees, or a solitary tall pine. A belt of yellow sand skirted the lake shore in
front, and a tall, thick forest formed the background. In the centre of this plain stood a
high shattered pine, with a clear space about, renowned as the scene of the war-dance time
out of mind. Here the youths assembled, with their tall and graceful leader, distinguished
by the feathers of the bald eagle, which he wore on his head. A bright fire of pine wood blazed
upon the green. He led his men several times around this fire, with a measured and solemn chant.[59]
Then suddenly halting, the war-whoop was raised, and the dance immediately began. An old man,
sitting at the head of the ring, beat time upon the drum, while several of the elder warriors
shook their rattles, and "ever and anon" made the woods re-echo with their yells. Each warrior
chanted alternately the verse of a song, of which the words generally embraced some prominent
idea, often repeated.

    The eagles scream on high,
      They whet their forked beaks:
    Raise--raise the battle cry,
      'Tis fame our leader seeks.

Thus they continued the dance, till each had introduced his verse, with short intermissions,
for two successive days and nights. Sometimes the village seer, who led the ceremony, would
embrace the occasion of a pause to address them with words of encouragement, in a prophetic
voice and air, suited to raise their voices.

    In the dreamy hours of night
    I beheld the bloody fight.
    As reclined upon my bed,
    Holy visions crowned my head;
    High our guardian spirit bright
    Stood above the dreadful fight;
    Beaming eye and dazzling brand
    Gleamed upon my chosen band,
    While a black and awful shade
    O'er the faithless foeman spread.
    Soon they wavered, sunk, and fled,
    Leaving wounded, dying, dead,
    While my gallant warriors high
    Waved their trophies in the sky.

At every recurrence of this kind, new energy was infused into the dance, and the warriors renewed
their gesticulations, and stamped upon the ground as if they were trampling their enemies under
their feet.

At length the prophet uttered his final prediction of success; and the warriors dropping off,
one by one, from the fire, took their way to the place appointed for the rendezvous, on the
confines of the enemy's country. Their leader was not among the last to depart, but he did
not leave the village without seeking an interview with the daughter of Wawanosh. He disclosed
to her his firm determination never to return, unless he could establish his name as a warrior.
He told her of the pangs he had felt at the bitter reproaches of her father, and declared that
his soul spurned the imputation of effeminacy and cowardice implied by his language. He averred
that he could never be happy until he had proved to the whole tribe the strength of his heart,
which is the Indian term for courage. He said that his dreams had not been propitious, but
he should not cease to invoke the power of the Great Spirit. He repeated his protestations
of inviolable attachment, which she returned, and, pledging vows of mutual fidelity, they parted.

That parting proved final. All she ever heard from her lover after this interview was brought
by one of his successful warriors, who said that he had distinguished himself by the most heroic
bravery, but, at the close of the fight, he had received an arrow in his breast. The enemy
fled, leaving many of their warriors dead on the field. On examining the wound, it was perceived
to be beyond their power to cure. They carried him towards home a day's journey, but he languished
and expired in the arms of his friends. From the moment the report was received, no smile was
ever seen in the once happy lodge of Wawanosh. His daughter pined away by day and by night.
Tears, sighs, and lamentation, were heard continually. Nothing could restore her lost serenity
of mind. Persuasives and reproofs were alternately employed, but employed in vain. She would
seek a sequestered spot, where she would sit under a shady tree, and sing her mournful laments
for hours together. Passages of these are yet repeated by tradition.

It was not long before a small bird of beautiful plumage flew upon the tree under which she
usually sat. This mysterious visitor, which, from its sweet and artless notes, is called Chileeli,
seemed to respond in sympathy to her plaintive voice. It was a strange bird, such as had not
before been observed. It came every day and remained chanting its notes till nightfall; and
when it left its perch on the tree, it seemed, from the delicate play of the colors of its
plumage, as if it had taken its hues from the rainbow. Her fond imagination soon led her to
suppose it was the spirit of her lover, and her visits to the sequestered spot were repeated
more frequently. She passed much of her time in fasting and singing her plaintive songs. There
she pined away, taking little nourishment, and constantly desiring to pass away to that land
of expected bliss and freedom from care, where it is believed that the spirits of men will
be again reunited, and tread over fields of flowery enjoyment. And when death came to her,
it was not as the bearer of gloom and regrets, but as the herald of happiness. After her decease,
the mysterious bird was never more seen, and it became a popular opinion that the mysterious
visitor had flown away with her spirit.[60]

      [58] Catfish.

      [59] Notes of the Pibbigwun.

      [60] Notes of the Pibbigwun.

SHEEM,

THE FORSAKEN BOY OR WOLF BROTHER.

AN ODJIBWA ALLEGORY OF FRATERNAL AFFECTION.

A solitary lodge stood on the banks of a remote lake. It was near the hour of sunset. Silence
reigned within and without. Not a sound was heard but the low breathing of the dying inmate
and head of this poor family. His wife and three children surrounded his bed. Two of the latter
were almost grown up: the other was a mere child. All their simple skill in medicine had been
exhausted to no effect. They moved about the lodge in whispers, and were waiting the departure
of the spirit. As one of the last acts of kindness, the skin door of the lodge had been thrown
back to admit the fresh air. The poor man felt a momentary return of strength, and, raising
himself a little, addressed his family.

"I leave you in a world of care, in which it has required all my strength and skill to supply
you food, and protect you from the storms and cold of a severe climate. For you, my partner
in life, I have less sorrow in parting, because I am persuaded you will not remain long behind
me, and will therefore find the period of your sufferings shortened. But you, my children!
my poor and forsaken children, who have just commenced the career of life, who will protect
you from its evils? Listen to my words! Unkindness, ingratitude, and every wickedness is in
the scene before you. It is for this cause that, years ago, I withdrew from my kindred and
my tribe, to spend my days in this lonely spot. I have contented myself with the company of
your mother and yourselves during seasons of very frequent scarcity and want, while your kindred,
feasting in a scene where food is plenty, have caused the forests to echo with the shouts of
successful war. I gave up these things for the enjoyment of peace. I wished to shield you from
the bad examples you would inevitably have followed. I have seen you, thus far, grow up in
innocence. If we have sometimes suffered bodily want, we have escaped pain of mind.[61] We
have been kept from scenes of rioting and bloodshed.

"My career is now at its close. I will shut my eyes in peace, if you, my children, will promise
me to cherish each other. Let not your mother suffer during the few days that are left to her;
and I charge you, on no account, to forsake your youngest brother. Of him I give you both my
dying charge to take a tender care." He sank exhausted on his pallet. The family waited a moment,
as if expecting to hear something further; but, when they came to his side, the spirit had
taken its flight.

The mother and daughter gave vent to their feelings in lamentations. The elder son witnessed
the scene in silence. He soon exerted himself to supply, with the bow and net, his father's
place. Time, however, wore away heavily. Five moons had filled and waned, and the sixth was
near its full, when the mother also died. In her last moments she pressed the fulfilment of
their promise to their father, which the children readily renewed, because they were yet free
from selfish motives.

The winter passed; and the spring, with its enlivening effects in a northern hemisphere, cheered
the drooping spirits of the bereft little family. The girl, being the eldest, dictated to her
brothers, and seemed to feel a tender and sisterly affection for the youngest, who was rather
sickly and delicate. The other boy soon showed symptoms of restlessness and ambition, and addressed
the sister as follows: "My sister, are we always to live as if there were no other human beings
in the world? Must I deprive myself of the pleasure of associating with my own kind? I have
determined this question for myself. I shall seek the villages of men, and you cannot prevent me."

The sister replied: "I do not say no, my brother, to what you desire. We are not prohibited
the society of our fellow-mortals; but we are told to cherish each other, and to do nothing
independent of each other. Neither pleasure nor pain ought, therefore, to separate us, especially
from our younger brother, who being but a child, and weakly withal, is entitled to a double
share of our affection. If we follow our separate gratifications, it will surely make us neglect
him, whom we are bound by vows, both to our father and mother, to support." The young man received
this address in silence. He appeared daily to grow more restive and moody, and one day, taking
his bow and arrows, left the lodge and never returned.

Affection nerved the sister's arm. She was not so ignorant of the forest arts as to let her
brother want. For a long time she administered to his necessities, and supplied a mother's
cares. At length, however, she began to be weary of solitude and of her charge. No one came
to be a witness of her assiduity, or to let fall a single word in her native language. Years,
which added to her strength and capability of directing the affairs of the household, brought
with them the irrepressible desire of society, and made solitude irksome. At this point, selfishness
gained the ascendency of her heart; for, in meditating a change in her mode of life, she lost
sight of her younger brother, and left him to be provided for by contingencies.

One day, after collecting all the provisions she had been able to save for emergencies, after
bringing a quantity of wood to the door, she said to her little brother: "My brother, you must
not stray from the lodge. I am going to seek our elder brother. I shall be back soon." Then,
taking her bundle, she set off in search of habitations. She soon found them, and was so much
taken up with the pleasures and amusements of social life, that the thought of her brother
was almost entirely obliterated. She accepted proposals of marriage; and, after that, thought
still less of her hapless and abandoned relative.

Meantime her elder brother had also married, and lived on the shores of the same lake whose
ample circuit contained the abandoned lodge of his father and his forsaken brother. The latter
was soon brought to the pinching turn of his fate. As soon as he had eaten all the food left
by his sister, he was obliged to pick berries and dig up roots. These were finally covered
by the snow. Winter came on with all its rigors. He was obliged to quit the lodge in search
of other food. Sometimes he passed the night in the clefts of old trees or caverns, and ate
the refuse meals of the wolves. The latter, at last, became his only resource; and he became
so fearless of these animals that he would sit close by them while they devoured their prey.
The wolves, on the other hand, became so familiar with his face and form, that they were undisturbed
by his approach; and, appearing to sympathize with him in his outcast condition, would always
leave something for his repast. In this way he lived till spring. As soon as the lake was free
from ice, he followed his new-found friends themselves to the shore. It happened, the same
day, that his elder brother was fishing in his canoe, a considerable distance out in the lake,
when he thought he heard the cries of a child on the shore, and wondered how any could exist
on so bleak and barren a part of the coast. He listened again attentively, and distinctly heard
the cry repeated. He made for shore as quick as possible, and, as he approached land, discovered
and recognized his little brother, and heard him singing, in a plaintive voice--

      Neesia--neesia,
      Shyegwuh goosuh!
      Ni my een gwun iewh!
      Ni my een gwun iewh!
                Heo hwooh.

    My brother--my brother,
    Ah! see, I am turning into a wolf.[62]

At the termination of his song, which was drawn out with a peculiar cadence, he howled like
a wolf. The elder brother was still more astonished, when, getting nearer shore, he perceived
his poor brother partly transformed into that animal. He immediately leaped on shore, and strove
to catch him in his arms, soothingly saying, "My brother, my brother, come to me." But the
boy eluded his grasp, crying as he fled, "Neesia, neesia," &c., and howling in the intervals.

The elder brother, conscience stricken, and feeling his brotherly affection strongly return,
with redoubled force exclaimed, in great anguish, "My brother! my brother! my brother!"

But, the nearer he approached, the more rapidly the transformation went on; the boy alternately
singing and howling, and calling out the name, first of his brother, and then of his sister,
till the change was completely accomplished, when he exclaimed, "I am a wolf!" and bounded
out of sight.

      [61] Wesugaindum, meaning pain or bitterness of mind, is a single
      expression in the original. It is a trinary compound.

      [62] Notes of the Pibbigwun.

AN OTTOWA LEGEND.

In a remote part of the north lived a great magician called Iamo, and his only sister, who
had never seen a human being. Seldom, if ever, had the man any cause to go from home; for,
as his wants demanded food, he had only to go a little distance from the lodge, and there,
in some particular spot, place his arrows, with their barbs in the ground. Telling his sister
where they had been placed, every morning she would go in search, and never fail of finding
each struck through the heart of a deer. She had then only to drag them into the lodge and
prepare their food. Thus she lived till she attained womanhood, when one day her brother said
to her, "Sister, the time is near at hand when you will be ill. Listen to my advice. If you
do not, it will probably be the cause of my death. Take the implements with which we kindle
our fires. Go some distance from our lodge, and build a separate fire. When you are in want
of food, I will tell you where to find it. You must cook for yourself, and I will for myself.
When you are ill, do not attempt to come near the lodge, or bring any of the utensils you use.
Be sure always to fasten to your belt the implements you need, for you do not know when the
time will come. As for myself, I must do the best I can." His sister promised to obey him in
all he had said.

Shortly after, her brother had cause to go from home. She was alone in her lodge, combing her
hair. She had just untied the belt to which the implements were fastened, when suddenly the
event, to which her brother had alluded, occurred. She ran out of the lodge, but in her haste
forgot the belt. Afraid to return, she stood for some time thinking. Finally she decided to
enter the lodge and get it. For, thought she, my brother is not at home, and I will stay but
a moment to catch hold of it. She went back. Running in suddenly, she caught hold of it, and
was coming out when her brother came in sight. He knew what was the matter. "Oh," he said,
"did I not tell you to take care? But now you have killed me." She was going on her way, but
her brother said to her, "What can you do there now? the accident has happened. Go in, and
stay where you have always stayed. And what will become of you? You have killed me."

He then laid aside his hunting dress and accoutrements, and soon after both his feet began
to inflame and turn black, so that he could not move. Still he directed his sister where to
place the arrows, that she might always have food. The inflammation continued to increase,
and had now reached his first rib; and he said, "Sister, my end is near. You must do as I tell
you. You see my medicine-sack, and my war-club tied to it. It contains all my medicines, and
my war-plumes, and my paints of all colors. As soon as the inflammation reaches my breast,
you will take my war-club. It has a sharp point, and you will cut off my head. When it is free
from my body, take it, place its neck in the sack, which you must open at one end. Then hang
it up in its former place. Do not forget my bow and arrows. One of the last you will take to
procure food. The remainder tie to my sack, and then hang it up, so that I can look towards
the door. Now and then I will speak to you, but not often." His sister again promised to obey.

In a little time his breast was affected. "Now," said he, "take the club and strike off my
head." She was afraid, but he told her to muster courage. "Strike," said he, and a smile was
on his face. Mustering all her courage, she gave the blow and cut off the head. "Now," said
the head, "place me where I told you." And fearfully she obeyed it in all its commands. Retaining
its animation, it looked around the lodge as usual, and it would command its sister to go to
such places as it thought would procure for her the flesh of different animals she needed.
One day the head said, "The time is not distant when I shall be freed from this situation,
but I shall have to undergo many sore evils. So the Superior Manito decrees, and I must bear
all patiently." In this situation we must leave the head.

In a certain part of the country was a village inhabited by a numerous and warlike band of
Indians. In this village was a family of ten young men--brothers. It was in the spring of the
year that the youngest of these blackened his face and fasted. His dreams were propitious.
Having ended his fast, he sent secretly for his brothers at night, so that none in the village
could overhear or find out the direction they intended to go. Though their drum was heard,
yet that was a common occurrence. Having ended the usual formalities, he told them how favorable
his dreams were, and that he had called them together to know if they would accompany him in
a war excursion. They all answered they would. The third brother from the eldest, noted for
his oddities, coming up with his war-club when his brother had ceased speaking, jumped up,
"Yes," said he, "I will go, and this will be the way I will treat those we are going to fight;"
and he struck the post in the centre of the lodge, and gave a yell. The others spoke to him,
saying, "Slow, slow, Mudjikewis, when you are in other people's lodges." So he sat down. Then,
in turn, they took the drum, and sang their songs, and closed with a feast. The youngest told
them not to whisper their intention even to their wives, but secretly to prepare for their
journey. They all promised obedience, and Mudjikewis was the first to say so.

The time for their departure drew near. Word was given to assemble on a certain night, when
they would depart immediately. Mudjikewis was loud in his demands for his moccasins. Several
times his wife asked him the reason. "Besides," said she, "you have a good pair on." "Quick,
quick," he said, "since you must know, we are going on a war excursion. So be quick." He thus
revealed the secret. That night they met and started. The snow was on the ground, and they
travelled all night, lest others should follow them. When it was daylight, the leader took
snow and made a ball of it; then tossing it into the air, he said, "It was in this way I saw
snow fall in my dream, so that I could not be tracked." And he told them to keep close to each
other for fear of losing themselves, as the snow began to fall in very large flakes. Near as
they walked, it was with difficulty they could see each other. The snow continued falling all
that day and the following night. So it was impossible to track them.

They had now walked for several days, and Mudjikewis was always in the rear. One day, running
suddenly forward, he gave the Saw-saw-quan,[63] and struck a tree with his war-club, which
broke into pieces as if struck with lightning. "Brothers," said he, "this will be the way I
will serve those whom we are going to fight." The leader answered, "Slow, slow, Mudjikewis.
The one I lead you to is not to be thought of so lightly." Again he fell back and thought to
himself, "What, what: Who can this be he is leading us to?" He felt fearful, and was silent.
Day after day they travelled on, till they came to an extensive plain, on the borders of which
human bones were bleaching in the sun. The leader spoke. "They are the bones of those who have
gone before us. None has ever yet returned to tell the sad tale of their fate." Again Mudjikewis
became restless, and, running forward, gave the accustomed yell. Advancing to a large rock
which stood above the ground, he struck it, and it fell to pieces. "See, brothers," said he,
"thus will I treat those whom we are going to fight." "Still, still," once more said the leader;
"he to whom I am leading you is not to be compared to that rock."

