    CASE XIV. Mr. D. was brought on Sept. 30th, 1874, by his
    physician, Dr. HOGAN. He was in the incipient stage of delirium
    tremens. Had not slept for some nights. Dr. H. had administered
    successively opiates, chloral and bromides in full doses,
    without effect. On the evening of above date the patient had a
    bath, in which the descending galvanic current was used. As a
    result, he slept well that night. The baths were repeated on the
    two succeeding days, with like effect. As the disease developed
    however it became necessary to send the patient to an asylum,
    whence he returned cured in a short time. The effect of the
    baths in this case, where full doses of the most powerful
    hypnotics of the materia medica had failed, was remarkably
    illustrative of their hypnotic power.

                                ANÆMIA.

As is well known to the profession, anæmia forms the basis of a great number of morbid conditions.
Hysteria, general debility, emaciation, sterility, various nervous affections, phthisis, in
short, a perversion of almost any of the various physiological functions may be the direct
result of anæmia. On the other hand, anæmia may be only a symptom or sequel of some other morbid
condition—but of such cases I do not now speak. I have to do here only with those cases where
anæmia is the primary and etiological of a group of symptoms, and where therefore it is to
this that the treatment must be mainly directed. Now let us see what this treatment is. Dr.
FLINT[15] suggests the following therapeutic measures: “first, a nutritious alimentation, into
which meat should enter largely; second, the use of tonics and stimulants to render the digestive
functions more active; third, iron as a special remedy—the effect of which is often remarkable;
and, fourth, a regimen calculated to increase the energy of the assimilative functions, consisting
of exercise in the open air, recreation, etc.” This agrees mainly with the views of other writers.
It may conveniently be condensed under two heads, instead of four, namely: first, to secure
for the patient appropriate food and adopt the best means to insure its assimilation; second,
the administration of iron. As to the ingestion of appropriate food, open air exercise, etc.,
patients are of course to receive the necessary directions. The remainder of the therapeutic
indications, as given above, are admirably met by electric baths. As we have seen in a preceding
chapter (p. 43 et seq.), they are a tonic and stimulant of the first order, and as nearly as
possible a specific for the furtherance of the digestive and assimilative processes. When impregnated
with iron, they constitute a treatment for anæmia which, in conjunction with the requisite
diet and other hygienic measures, is inferior to no other. It will moreover be found very efficacious
in counteracting secondary anæmia, and thus, by maintaining the general strength of the patient,
often enable nature and appropriate treatment to cope successfully with the original disease.

    CASE XV. Mrs. S., aet. 22, four years married. I was called to
    see her on October 2d, 1874. She then had a spontaneous
    miscarriage, the fifth since her marriage. She asked me whether
    nothing could be done to enable her to carry a child to full
    term, as both she and her husband were very desirous to have
    offspring. In pursuance of my directions, she presented herself
    at my office about ten days after I first saw her. On
    examination I found no organic trouble, no uterine displacement,
    nor any other local trouble to account for her premature
    confinements. Involution had progressed normally. The only
    deviation from the normal that I could discover about the uterus
    was undue paleness of the cervical portion. Her appearance was
    very decidedly anæmic; features pale, flabby; lips whitish blue;
    physical energy much depressed. She had had but very slight loss
    of blood on the occasion of her recent miscarriage; certainly
    not enough to account for her anæmic appearance. Viewing her
    case as one of idiopathic anæmia, I ordered her electric baths
    strongly impregnated with iron. In addition to this, the regimen
    usual in such cases, and also strychnia and phosphorus
    internally. She took her first bath on Oct. 14th; then one bath
    weekly until she had taken six baths, the last of which was
    administered on the 24th of November. During all this time she
    kept steadily improving. The anæmic appearance and symptoms
    gradually receded, and, soon after she had taken her last bath,
    I discharged her, as far as the anæmia was concerned—cured.
    While she was under treatment she had, by my advice, refrained
    entirely from sexual intercourse. Early in the spring of 1875
    she called to tell that she was again pregnant, and in November,
    1875, I delivered her of a healthy male child, at full term.

                        PARALYSES AND PARESES.

I include these under one head, because not only is their origin frequently identical, but,
chiefly, because the therapeutic indications are almost always the same in both. Whatever the
cause in any given case, whether cerebral, spinal or peripheral, organic or functional; whatever
the treatment that may be indicated—and this should never be neglected—for the primary trouble,
the direct electrical treatment of the paralysis, sub-paralysis or paresis, being purely symptomatic
treatment, remains in the great majority of cases essentially the same. The objects to be aimed
at are two, viz: first, a normal state of nutrition of the affected muscles; second, their
normal contractility. In other words, we are to endeavor to prevent atrophy of the affected
muscles, or, where this has already taken place to some extent, to restore their normal bulk;
and, second, we must strive to restore the more or less impaired contractility of the paralytic
or paretic muscles. Even where symptomatic treatment for these purposes is the only treatment
employed in a case, we frequently meet to a great extent the indicatio morbi, by favorably
influencing, either in a reflex or direct manner, the primary disease. This is true of local
electrizations of the affected parts; it holds good much more strongly however of electric
baths, because here, in addition to the reflex influence that we get from local applications,
we have also the direct influence of the electric current on the spinal cord and posterior
portion of the brain not only, but on the sympathetic system and all the important organs contained
in the thoracic and abdominal cavities. The great importance of this is apparent, when we reflect
that in very many if not most cases of disease of the nervous system, central or peripheral,
electricity in an appropriate form is a useful therapeutic agent, and that moreover the great
majority of functional paralytic disorders respond favorably to its influence. As for any harm
being done by it in those rare cases where its use may be contra-indicated, I admit that such
may accrue from the administration of electric baths without medical supervision; it is entirely
obviated however where the baths are under the supervision of a physician, who does not, like
a layman, indiscriminately admit to their use any and everybody who is willing to pay for their
administration, but will carefully discriminate, and conscientiously exclude those cases in
which general electrization might result injuriously. In such cases a tolerably accurate diagnosis
is as a rule readily made, and will enable the physician to separate the suitable from the
unsuitable cases.

As to the mode of administration of the baths in cases of the class under consideration, the
use of both currents is requisite; the galvanic as a nutrient, the faradic as an excito-motor
agent. Where, as is sometimes the case, faradic irritability is extinct, or so slight as to
be practically unavailable, the (slowly) interrupted galvanic current must take the place of
the faradic, until faradic irritability has become re-established. As to the intensity, direction,
etc., of the currents, each individual case has its own laws, which must be recognized by the
supervising physician.

    CASE XVI.—Infantile paralysis. Albert Pichl, aet. 22 months,
    was sent me by Dr. LILIENTHAL, October 3d, 1874. Had complete
    paralysis of right leg (of four weeks standing), with
    considerable atrophy of the entire leg as well as the gluteal
    region of the corresponding side. The temperature of the leg was
    much lower than that of the healthy limb. Faradic irritability
    was entirely extinct. The treatment was begun by galvanizations
    of the lower (lumbar and sacral) portion of the spinal cord, and
    the use of the interrupted galvanic current on the affected
    muscles. This was at first done daily. The contractility of the
    muscles gradually but slowly improved, but neither the atrophy
    nor temperature of the limb appeared visibly affected by the
    treatment. With a view to favorably influencing these
    conditions, I ordered him galvanic baths. He had a bath every
    alternate day. The result was favorable and rapid. The leg
    became sensibly and permanently warmer after each bath, and
    commenced steadily to increase in bulk. Faradic irritability
    soon returned. The local applications were continued several
    times a week for some time, and then gradually abandoned, the
    baths being meantime continued regularly. The boy very soon
    began to walk, and in December active treatment was
    discontinued. At that time, faradic irritability having long
    since become completely re-established, I caused the child’s
    father to purchase a faradic battery to use at home. The limb
    was eventually entirely restored in every respect, with the
    exception of a slight abduction of the foot, for which I
    referred the patient to Dr. GIBNEY. I saw the child recently; he
    remains well.

    CASE XVII.* Sub-hemiplegia from cerebral hemorrhage. Mrs. S.,
    aet. 30, married, from the practice of Dr. KREHBIEL, was sent by
    Dr. K. to take baths, July 3d, 1874. It was a routine case,
    differing in no respect from what is ordinarily witnessed as a
    sequence of cerebral hemorrhage. Six baths, taken at intervals
    of two and three days, restored almost entirely the muscular
    power of the affected side. The patient subsequently made a
    complete recovery without further treatment.

    CASE XVIII. Paralysis from insolation. Mr. P., proof-reader
    aet. about 40, had suffered for some time from sub-paraplegia,
    the result of insolation. He was sent to take baths in May,
    1874, by his physician, Dr. SCHIRMER. Electro-balneological
    treatment in this case met with no success.

    CASE XIX. Lead paralysis. Mr. M., aet. about 35, painter, was
    referred to me for treatment May 15th, 1874, by Dr. MOHN. The
    extensors of one (I believe it was the right) arm were
    paralyzed. The characteristic blue line about the gums was
    clearly defined. I ordered an electric bath daily. The
    descending galvanic current was used for twenty minutes each
    bath. From half to one ounce of iodide of potassium was added to
    each bath. The blue line became less distinct from day to day,
    until, after eleven baths, it had entirely disappeared. The
    object for which I had ordered the baths having now been
    accomplished, I treated the affected muscles with the faradic
    current. A short course of this treatment sufficed to remove the
    paralysis from all but one finger (it was either the middle or
    ring finger), the extensors of which had probably undergone
    fatty degeneration.

                              NEURALGIÆ.

The great variety of causes that may give rise to neuralgia, precludes the possibility of any
specific for this symptom. In discussing its electro-balneological treatment, I would observe
a primo that I cannot, in the light of my personal experience, agree with those who claim for
electrical treatment good results in a majority of cases.[16] On the other hand it cannot be
denied that, either as a palliative or curative measure, electricity, employed in an appropriate
form and manner, is of inestimable value in many cases, and frequently succeeds where all other
remedies are of no avail. Where we know the cause of a neuralgia, it is of course comparatively
easy for us to determine whether or not electricity promises to avail anything. But even where
the nature of the cases appeared to indicate its use, the failures, in my hands at least, have
outnumbered the successes. The brilliant results—sometimes almost instantaneous—that we obtain
now and then, should not lead us into overlooking our failures. Undoubtedly the circumstance
that most of the cases that have come under my observation were of a very obstinate nature,
referred to me by other physicians after varied unsuccessful treatment, has much to do with
the formation of my views as expressed above, and future experience may perhaps lead me to
modify them.

Speaking still from my own experience, I will state that the cases that have proven the most
amenable to treatment were, first, those of rheumatic origin; second, hysterical neuralgiæ,
and, third, cases where no assignable cause could be elicited. The most obstinate varieties
were those of a malarial type (even when quinine in large doses or arsenic were employed in
conjunction with galvanism) and those that depended on some form of chronic inflammation—neuritis,
periostitis, etc. Of central neuralgiæ, I have had excellent results in the sympathetic variety
and in the pains of posterior spinal sclerosis, while in the neuralgiæ of cerebral origin (diffuse
cerebral sclerosis, tumors, etc.) I have never met with any appreciable success.

Where, then, we are able accurately to diagnose a case, there cannot be much doubt as to the
appropriateness or not of electrical treatment, and in cases whose origin is obscure, which
may be considered practically functional and therefore treated more or less empirically, electricity
holds out as much or more hope than any other remedy. Whether electricity should be employed
locally or in the form of baths, must depend on the features presented by each individual case.
In neuralgia of the fifth pair—excepting those reflex cases where the point d’origine is to
be sought for somewhere in the trunk or extremities, and those that depend on cerebral hyperæmia
or anæmia, where the equalizing effects of the baths on the circulation are frequently of great
benefit—these are generally useless. Of other neuralgiæ, I have found the baths less successful
in those of the superior than in those of the inferior spinal nerves. Lumbo-abdominal neuralgia
and sciatica have yielded much more readily than brachial or dorso-intercostal neuralgia, etc.,
etc.

The mode of administering the baths in neuralgiæ does not possess enough of uniformity to render
suggestion in this respect of any value. I will state however that, as a rule, the best results
have been obtained from the descending galvanic current.

In chronic cases the baths should be administered daily, and should not be discarded as unavailing
until at least a dozen have been successively taken.

