Business done.--Budget Scheme passed through Committee.

Friday.--Almost forgot we still have House of Lords. Shall be reminded of their existence by-and-by.
For the nonce, they are courteously quiescent, the world forgetting, by the world forgot. Just
a little flare-up to-night. Ireland, of course; CAMPERDOWN wanting to know what about the Evicted
Tenants Commission? Are the Government going to legislate upon it, or will they forbear? SELBORNE
supernaturally solemn; dragged in JAMES THE SECOND as the nearest approach to any head of a
Government quite so wicked as Mr. G. Lords much interested in this. Don't hear so much now
of JAMES THE SECOND as we did when at school. The establishment of points of resemblance between
Governments of his day and that presided over by Mr. G., a novelty in debate. Imparted to political
controversy a freshness long lacking.

Just after seven, debate adjourned. For all practical purposes, it might as well have been
concluded. But House doesn't get many opportunities of debate; not disposed riotously to squander
this chance one.

Business done.--Commons had Morning Sitting; scrupulously devoted the last five minutes of
it to public business.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTE,--There's not much magic about The Magic Ring at the Prince of Wales's until
the Second Act, in which the extravagantly comic "business" of Messrs. MONKHOUSE and KAYE,
the burlesque acting of Miss SUSIE VAUGHAN, and the comic trio dance between the two low comedians
and the sprightly soprano, Miss MARIE HALTON, are worth the whole of Act I. When is burlesque
not burlesque? When it is Comic Opera. Burlesque was reported dead. Not a bit of it, only smothered;
and it may come up fresh for a long run, or at all events, "fit" for a good spurt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even the old-fashionedest Toriest of Tory Farmers are longing, hoping, and even praying, for
the downfall of the Rain. If we don't have it soon, and it may have arrived ere this appears,
Marrowfats, as articles de luxe, will be "Peas at any price!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

  PANEFUL!

  It was the Palace of the Board,
    The Board of London's Schooling,
  Where Members lately have enjoyed
    Some high artistic fooling.

  "Oh, why"--hear Mr. COXHEAD plead,
    In tones of sheer amazement--
  "Do hideous faces wrought in glass
    Stare down from every casement?"

  Then up spake General MOBERLY,
    The Board's supreme apologist,
  And told them all the time of day
    Like any good horologist.

  "The Architect," quoth he, "had planned
    To grave upon the panes
  Portraits of bygone Classic wights,
    Of British youth the banes.

  "But as the Chairman of the Works'
    Committee he had said,
  That CICERO should be deposed,
    And DIGGLE reign instead.

  "To oust HERODOTUS would be
    An inexpensive job,
  And SOCRATES should be bowled out
    By a seductive LOBB."

  Further, he argued that it would
    Only be right and manly
  If ARCHIMEDES did resign
    His pane to LYULPH STANLEY.

  And out he brought his final word
    Both modestly and soberly--
  "I think that JULIUS CÆSAR might
    Give place to General MOBERLY!"

  O Boardmen, shall the little plan
    Be thus allowed to pass?
  It will, unless your Veto stop
    This filling of the glass!

       *       *       *       *       *

  TO ZANTE.

  (An Appeal.
  How many memories of fierce seismic powers
    At sight of thee, as now thou art, awake!
  How many scenes of what departed bliss!
    How many thoughts of what entombed hopes!
  Did FALB foresee such ruinous wreck as this?
    No more sits Peace upon thy verdant slopes!
  Subscriptions! Ah, that magical sweet sound
    Appeals to all, or should appeal. More! More!
  Suffering demands still more!

       *       *       *       *       *

    NEW NAME FOR IT. (By a non-believer in the
    much-talked-of--and talking--"League."),--Imperial
    Fad-oration!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

  "IN THE KEY OF RUTHENE."

    [The most gorgeous red yet discovered has lately been produced
    from the rare metal rüthenium.]

  Who'll sell me a second-hand lyre and a plectrum,
    Or (since it's the fashion) a mandoline?
  Con amore I'd sing the new shade of the spectrum--
    No spook, though it haunts me--its name is Ruthene.

  Nay, don't be alarmed, for I'm no supersubtle
    Decadent bard with an eye full of green;
  I merely (to copy the late Captain Cuttle)
    Am "making a note" in the key of Ruthene.

  Well, R's a red letter, you see its ray glow forth--
    Look in your "dic" if you doubt what I mean;
  Red, rufous, rouge, ruddy, rose, russet, and so forth,
    Have all rolling r's like resplendent Ruthene.

  More "clamant" than carmine, vermilion, crimson,
    Costlier than diamond or ultramarine--
  A deuce of a theme to chant lyrics or hymns on,
    Or rummage for orotund "rot," is Ruthene.

  Orange-hued are the Odalisque's henna-dyed fingers,
    English girls' lips are encarnadine;
  A rubicund flame round the toper's nose lingers--
    But I'm blest if they rival the blush of Ruthene.

  Pink huntsman, gules ensign, deep flush of the sunset,
    Cardinal's scarlet, "red" gold have I seen,
  With red ruin, red rhubarb, red herring--but none set
    My iris afire as does red-hot Ruthene.

  The quest, though, is simpler of Roc's egg or Sangreal,
    Easier to fashion a flying machine,
  Than for my Muse to fake up (forgive Cockney slang) real
    Readable rhymes in praise of Ruthene.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SCOTTISH TREVELYANDERER.

(Mr. Hozier's Version.)

    [Mr. HOZIER (on the Second Reading of the "Registration of
    Votes (Scotland) Amendment Bill") said, "the fame of Mr.
    GERRY, the Governor of Massachusetts, would sink into
    insignificance if this Bill were to pass. In future they
    would not talk of Gerrymandering, but of Trevelyandering....
    Trevelyandering, however, was a game at which two could play;
    in fact, in the words of the poet, they might fairly say:--

        "What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,
        And possibly two can Trevelyander!"]

  AIR--"The British Grenadiers."

  Some talk of Gerrymander, and some of HERCHELLES,
  Of HALSBURY and Mr. BRYCE, and such great names as these.
  But of all the world's great jobbers (swears HOZIER) none compare
  With the job, job, job, job, job, job, of the "Tre-vel-yan-der-er!"

  GERRY, of Massachusetts, was smartish, for his time,
  But HOZIER "goes one better," it moves his soul to rhyme.
  Our Scottish Wegg (sans timber leg) drops into verse--though queer.
  About the game--which two can play--of the "Tre-vel-yan-de-rer!"

  There's Jove, the god of thunder, and Mars, the god of war,
  Brave Neptune, with his trident, but here's a greater, far!
  HOZIER-Apollo now is seen descending from his sphere
  To string betimes impromptu rhymes on the "Tre-vel-yan-de-rer!"

  Then let us fill a bumper, and drink a health to those
  Who, "dropping into poetry," leave lesser wits to prose,
  And especially to HOZIER, who raised a ringing cheer,
  By his doggerel delightful on the "Tre-vel-yan-de-rer!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. G. "SHADOWED."--Of course even Mr. G. cannot be "The Shadowless Man," except under the
terms of that weird story, "which is impossible." The Police have arrived at one important
point about the recently arrested TOWNSEND. They now say, "We know that man, he comes from
Sheffield."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A WORK OF--SOME IMPORTANCE.

