It is also true that subjects not new in art are treated in a nineteenth-century manner. This
is noticeable in the picturing of historical subjects. The more intimate knowledge of the world
enables the historical painter of the present to impart to his representations of the important
events of the past a more human and emotional element than exists in the historical art of
earlier centuries. In a word, nineteenth-century art is sympathetic, and has found inspiration
in all countries and classes and has so treated its subjects as to be intelligible to all,
from the favored children for whom Kate Greenaway, Walter Crane, and many others have spent
their delightful talents, to men and women of all varieties of individual tastes and of all
degrees of ability to comprehend and appreciate artistic representations.

A fuller acquaintance with the art and art-methods of countries of which but little had before
been known has been an element in art expansion. Technical methods which have not been absolutely
adopted by European and English-speaking artists have yet had an influence upon their art.
The interest in Japanese Art is the most important example of such influence, and it is also
true that Japanese artists have been attracted to the study of the art of America and Europe,
while some foreign artists resident in Japan--notably Miss Helen Hyde, a young American--have
studied and practised Japanese painting to such purpose that Japanese juries have accorded
the greatest excellence and its honors to their works, exhibited in competition with native
artists.

Other factors in the expansion of art have been found in photography and the various new methods
of illustration that have filled books, magazines, and newspapers with pictures of more or
less (?) merit. Even the painting of "posters" has not been scorned by good artists, some of
whom have treated them in such a manner as to make them worthy a place in museums where only
works of true merit are exhibited.

Other elements in the nineteenth-century expansion in art are seen in the improved productions
of the so-called Arts and Crafts which are of inestimable value in cultivating the artistic
sense in all classes. Another influence in the same direction is the improved decoration of
porcelain, majolica, and pottery, which, while not equal to that of earlier date in the esteem
of connoisseurs, brings artistic objects to the sight and knowledge of all, at prices suited
to moderate means.

       *       *       *       *       *

In America the unparalleled increase of Free Libraries has brought, not books alone, but collections
of photographs and other reproductions of the best Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture in
the world, as well as medals, book-plates, artistic bindings, etc., within reach of students
of art.

Art Academies and Museums have also been greatly multiplied. It is often a surprise to find,
in a comparatively small town, a fine Art Gallery, rich in a variety of precious objects. Such
an one is the Art Museum of Bowdoin College, in Brunswick, Me. The edifice itself is the most
beautiful of the works by McKim that I have seen. The frescoes by La Farge and Vedder are most
satisfactory, and one exhibit, among many of interest--that of original drawings by famous
Old Masters--would make this Museum a worthy place of pilgrimage. Can one doubt that such a
Museum must be an element of artistic development in those who are in contact with it?

I cannot omit saying that this splendid monument to the appreciation of art and to great generosity
was the gift of women, while the artists who perfected its architecture and decorations are
Americans; it is an impressive expression of the expansion of American Art in the nineteenth
century.

       *       *       *       *       *

The advantages for the study of Art have been largely improved and increased in this period.
In numberless studios small classes of pupils are received; in schools of Design, schools of
National Academies, and in those of individual enterprise, all possible advantages for study
under the direction of the best artists are provided, and these are supplemented by scholarships
which relieve the student of limited means from providing for daily needs.

All these opportunities are shared by men and women alike. Every advantage is as freely at
the command of one as of the other, and we equal, in this regard, the centuries of the Renaissance,
when women were Artists, Students, and Professors of Letters and of Law, filling these positions
with honor, as women do in these days.

In 1859 T. Adolphus Trollope, in his "Decade of Italian Women," in which he wrote of the scholarly
women of the Renaissance, says: "The degree in which any social system has succeeded in ascertaining
woman's proper position, and in putting her into it, will be a very accurate test of the progress
it has made in civilization. And the very general and growing conviction that our own social
arrangements, as they exist at present, have not attained any satisfactory measure of success
in this respect, would seem, therefore, to indicate that England in her nineteenth century
has not yet reached years of discretion after all."

Speaking of Elisabetta Sirani he says: "The humbly born artist, admirable for her successful
combination in perfect compatibility of all the duties of home and studio." Of how many woman
artists we can now say this.

Trollope's estimate of the position of women in England, which was not unlike that in America,
forty-five years ago, when contrasted with that of the present day, affords another striking
example of the expansion of the nineteenth century.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although no important changes occur without some preparation, this may be so gradual and unobtrusive
in its work that the result appears to have a Minerva-like birth. Doubtless there were influences
leading up to the remarkable landscape painting of this century. The "Norwich School," which
took shape in 1805, was founded by Crome, among whose associates were Cotman, Stark, and Vincent.
Crome exhibited his works at the Royal Academy in 1806, and the twelve following years, and
died in 1821 when the pictures of Constable were attracting unusual attention; indeed, it may
be said that by his exhibitions at the Royal Academy, Constable inaugurated modern landscape
painting, which is a most important feature of art in this century.

Not forgetting the splendid landscapes of the Dutch masters, of the early Italians, of Claude
and Wilson, the claim that landscape painting was perfected only in the nineteenth century,
and then largely as the result of the works of English artists, seems to me to be well founded.
To this excellence Turner, contemporary with Constable, David Cox, De Wint, Bonington, and
numerous others gloriously contributed.

The English landscapes exhibited at the French Salon in the third decade of the century produced
a remarkable effect, and emphasized the interest in landscape painting already growing in France,
and later so splendidly developed by Rousseau, Corot, Millet, and their celebrated contemporaries.
In Germany the Achenbachs, Lessing, and many other artists were active in this movement, while
in America, Innes, A. H. Wyant, and Homer Martin, with numerous followers, were raising landscape
art to an eminence before unknown.

Formerly landscapes had been used as backgrounds, oftentimes attractive and beautiful, while
the real purpose of the pictures centred in the human figures. The distinctive feature of nineteenth-century
landscape is the representation of Nature alone, and the variety of method used and the differing
aims of the artists cover the entire gamut between absolute Realism and the most pronounced
Impressionism.

       *       *       *       *       *

About the middle of the century there emerged from the older schools two others which may be
called the Realist and Idealist, and indeed there were those to whom both these terms could
be applied, both methods being united in their remarkable works. Of the Realists Corot and
Courbet are distinguished, as were Puvis de Chavannes and Gustave Moreau among the Idealists.

Millet, with his marvellous power of observation, painted his landscapes with the fidelity
of his school in that art, and so keenly realized the religious element in the peasant life
about him--the poetry of these people--that he portrayed his figures in a manner quite his
own--at the same time realistic and full of idealism. MacColl in his "Nineteenth-Century Art"
called Millet "the most religious figure in modern art after Rembrandt," and adds that "he
discovered a patience of beauty, a reconciling, in the concert of landscape mystery with labor."

Shall we call Bastien Lepage a follower of Millet, or say that in these men there was a unity
of spirit; that while they realized the poetry of their subjects intensely, they fully estimated
the reality as well?

The "Joan of Arc" is a phenomenal example of this art. The landscape is carefully realistic,
and like that in which a French peasant girl of any period would live. But here realism ceases
and the peasant girl becomes a supremely exalted being, entranced by a vision of herself in
full armor.

This art, at once realistic and idealistic, is an achievement of the nineteenth century--so
clear and straightforward in its methods as to explain itself far better than words can explain it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Contemporary with these last-named artists were the Pre-raphaelites. The centre of this school
was called the Brotherhood, which was founded by J. E. Millais, W. Holman Hunt, Dante Gabriel
Rossetti, and William Michael Rossetti. To these were added Thomas Woolner the sculptor, James
Collins, and F. G. Stephens. Other important artists known as Pre-raphaelites, not belonging
to the Brotherhood, are Ford Madox Brown and Burne Jones, as well as the water-color painters,
Mason, Walker, Boyce, and Goodwin.

The aim of these artists was to represent with sincerity what they saw, and the simple sincerity
of painters who preceded Raphael led them to choose a name which Ruskin called unfortunate,
"because the principles on which its members are working are neither pre- nor post-Raphaelite,
but everlasting. They are endeavoring to paint with the highest possible degree of completion
what they see in nature, without reference to conventional established rules; but by no means
to imitate the style of any past epoch. To paint Nature--Nature as it was around them, by the
help of modern science, was the aim of the Brotherhood."

At the time when the Pre-raphaelite School came into being the art of other lands as well as
that of England was in need of an awakening impulse, and the Pre-raphaelite revolt against
conventionality and the machine-like art of the period roused such interest, criticism, and
opposition as to stimulate English art to new effort, and much of its progress in the last
half-century is doubtless due to the discussions of the theories of this movement as well as
of the works it produced.

Pre-raphaelitism, scorned and ridiculed in its beginning, came to be appreciated in a degree
that at first seemed impossible, and though its apostles were few, its influence was important.

Rossetti's "Girlhood of Virgin Mary," Holman Hunt's "Light of the World," and Millais' "Christ
in the House of His Parents" have been called the Trilogy of Pre-raphaelite Art.

Millais did not long remain a strict disciple of this school, but soon adopted the fuller freedom
of his later work, which may be called that of modern naturalism. Rossetti remained a Pre-raphaelite
through his short life, but his works could not be other than individual, and their distinct
personality almost forbade his being considered a disciple of any school.

Holman Hunt may be called the one persistent follower of this cult. He has consistently embodied
his convictions in his pictures, the value of which to English art cannot yet be determined.
This is also true of the marvellous work of Burne Jones; but although they have but few faithful
followers, Pre-raphaelite art no longer needs defence nor apology.

Its secondary effect is far-reaching. To it may be largely attributed the more earnest study
of Nature as well as the simplicity of treatment and lack of conventionality which now characterizes
English art to an extent before unknown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Impressionism is the most distinctive feature of nineteenth-century art, and is too large a
subject to be treated in an introduction--any proper consideration of it demands a volume.

The entire execution of a picture out-of-doors was sometimes practised by Constable, more frequently
by Turner, and some of the peculiarities of the French impressionist artists were shared by
the English landscape painters of the early part of the century. While no one could dream of
calling Constable an impressionist, it is interesting to recall the reception of his "Opening
of Waterloo Bridge." Ridiculed in London, it was accepted in Paris, and is now honored at the
Royal Academy.

This picture was covered with pure white, in impasto, a method dear to impressionists. Was
Constable in advance of his critics? is a question that comes involuntarily to mind as we read
the life of this artist, and recall the excitement which the exhibition of his works caused
at the Salon of 1824, and the interest they aroused in Delacroix and other French painters.

The word Impressionism calls to mind the names of Manet, Monet, Pissaro, Mme. Berthe Morisot,
Paul Cézanne, Whistler, Sargent, Hassam, and many others. Impressionists exhibited their pictures
in Paris as early as 1874; not until 1878 were they seen to advantage in London, when Whistler
exhibited in the Grosvenor Gallery; and the New English Art Club, founded in 1885, was the
outcome of the need of this school to be better represented in its special exhibitions than
was possible in other galleries.

In a comprehensive sense Impressionism includes all artists who represent their subjects with
breadth and collectiveness rather than in detail--in the way in which we see a view at the
first glance, before we have time to apprehend its minor parts. The advocates of impressionism
now claim that it is the most reformatory movement in modern painting; it is undeniably in
full accord with the spirit of the time in putting aside older methods and conventions and
introducing a new manner of seeing and representing Nature.

The differing phases of Painting in the nineteenth century have had their effect upon that
art as a whole. Each one has been important, not only in the country of its special development,
but in other lands, each distinctive quality being modified by individual and national characteristics.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the early decades of the past century Sculpture was "classic" and conventional rather than
natural and sincere. A revolt against these conditions produced such artists as Rodin, St.
Gaudens, MacMonnies, and many less famous men who have put life, spirit, and nature into their art.

In Sculpture as in Painting many more subjects are treated than were formerly thought suited
to representation in marble and bronze, and a large proportion of these recent motifs demand
a broad method of treatment--a manner often called "unfinished" by those who approve only the
smooth polish of an antique Venus, and would limit sculpture to the narrow class of subjects
with which this smoothness harmonizes.

The best sculptors of the present treat the minor details of their subjects in a sketchy, or,
as some critics contend, in a rough imperfect manner, while others find that this treatment
of detail, combined with a careful, comprehensive treatment of the important parts, emphasizes
the meaning and imparts strength to the whole, as no smoothness can do.

Although the highest possibilities in sculpture may not yet be reached, it is animated with
new spirit of life and nature. Nineteenth-century aims and modes of expression have greatly
enlarged its province. Like Painting, Sculpture has become democratic. It glorifies Labor and
all that is comprised in the term "common, every-day life," while it also commemorates noble
and useful deeds with genuine sympathy and an intelligent appreciation of the best to which
humanity attains; at the same time poetical fancies, myths, and legends are not neglected,
but are rendered with all possible delicacy and tenderness.

At present a great number of women are sculptors. The important commissions which are given
them in connection with the great expositions of the time--the execution of memorial statues
and monuments, fountains, and various other works which is confided to them, testifies to their
excellence in their art with an emphasis beyond that of words.

       *       *       *       *       *

Want of space forbids any special mention of etching, metal work, enamelling, designing, and
decorative work in many directions in which women in great numbers are engaged; indeed, in
what direction can we look in which women are not employed--I believe I may say by thousands--in
all the minor arts? Between the multitude that pursue the Fine Arts and kindred branches for
a maintenance--and are rarely heard of--and those fortunate ones who are commissioned to execute
important works, there is an enormous middle class. Paris is their Mecca, but they are known
in all art centres, and it is by no means unusual for an artist to study under Dutch, German,
and Italian masters, as well as French.

The present method of study in Paris--in such academies as that of Julian and the Colarossi--secures
to the student the criticism and advice of the best artists of the day, while in summer--in
the country and by the sea--there are artistic colonies in which students lead a delightful
life, still profiting by the instruction of eminent masters.

Year by year the opportunities for art-study by women have been increased until they are welcome
in the schools of the world, with rare exceptions. The highest goal seems to have been reached
by their admission to the competition for the Grand prix de Rome conferred by l'École des Beaux
Arts.

I regret that the advantages of the American Art Academy in Rome are not open to women. The
fact that for centuries women have been members and professors in the Academy of St. Luke,
and in view of the recent action of l'École des Beaux Arts, this narrowness of the American
Academy in the Eternal City is especially pronounced.

One can but approve the encouragement afforded women artists in France, by the generosity with
which their excellence is recognized.

To be an officer in the French Academy is an honor surpassed in France by that of the Legion
of Honor only. Within a twelvemonth two hundred and seventy-five women have been thus distinguished,
twenty-eight of them being painters and designers. From this famous Academy down, through the
International Expositions, the Salons, and the numberless exhibitions in various countries,
a large proportion of medals and other honors are conferred on women, who, having now been
accorded all privileges necessary for the pursuit of art and for its recompense, will surely
prove that they richly merit every good that can be shared with them.

<b>AARESTRUP, MARIE HELENE.</b> Born at Flekkefjord, Norway, 1829. She made her studies in
Bergen, under Reusch; under Tessier in Paris; and Vautier in Düsseldorf. She excelled in genre
and portrait painting. Her "Playing Child" and "Shepherd Boy" are in the Art Union in Christiania;
the "Interior of Hotel Cluny" and a "Flower Girl" are in the Museum at Gottenburg.

<b>ABBATT, AGNES DEAN.</b> Bronze medal, Cooper Union; silver medal, Massachusetts Charitable
Mechanics' Association. Member of American Water Color Society.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ABBEMA, MME. LOUISE.</b> Officer of the Mérite des Arts; honorable mention, Salon of 1881;
bronze medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; Hors Concours, 1903, at Exposition of Limoges. Born at
Étampes, 1858. Pupil of Chaplin, Henner, and Carolus-Duran. She exhibited a "Portrait of Sarah
Bernhardt," 1876; "The Seasons," 1883; "Portrait of M. Abbema," 1887; "Among the Flowers,"
1893; "An April Morning," 1894; "Winter," 1895, etc.

This artist has also executed numerous decorations for ceilings and decorative panels for private
houses. Her picture of "Breakfast in the Conservatory" is in the Museum of Pau.

Mme. Abbema illustrated "La Mer," by Maizeroy, and has contributed to the Gazette des Beaux-Arts
and several other Parisian publications.

At the Salon of the Artistes Français, 1902, she exhibited the "Portrait of Pierre," and in
1903 a portrait of the Countess P. S.

Mme. Abbema wears her hair short, and affects such absolute simplicity in her costume that
at first sight she reminds one of a charming young man. In no other direction, however, is
there a masculine touch about this delightful artist. She has feminine grace, a love for poetry,
a passion for flowers, which she often introduces in her pictures; she has, in short, a truly
womanly character, which appears in the refinement and attractiveness of her work.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ABBOTT, KATHERINE G.</b> Bronze medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; honorable mention, Buffalo
Exposition, 1901.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ACHILLE-FOULD, MLLE. GEORGES.</b> Medal, third class, Versailles, 1888; honorable mention,
Paris Salon, 1894; medal, third class, 1895; medal, second class, 1897; Hors Concours; bronze
medal at Paris Exposition, 1900. Officer of Public Instruction; member of the Société des Artistes
Français. Born at Asnières (Seine). Pupil of Cabanel, Antoine Vollon, and Léon Comerre.

A painter of figure subjects and portraits. Several of her works are in private collections
in the United States. Among these are the "Flower-Seller," the "Knife-Grinder," "M. de Richelieu's
Love Knots," exhibited in the Salon of 1902, and "Going to School."

"The Dull Season" is in London; "Cinderella" and many others in Paris.

This artist, when still in short skirts, sent her first picture, "In the Market Place," to
the Salon of 1884. She is most industrious, and her history, as she herself insists, is in
her pictures. She has been surrounded by a sympathetic and artistic atmosphere. Her mother
was an art critic, who, before her second marriage to Prince Stirberg, signed her articles
Gustave Haller. Her home, the Château de Bécon, is an ideal home for an artist, and one can
well understand her distaste for realism and the professional model.

"M. de Richelieu's Love Knots" is very attractive and was one of the successes of 1902. He
is a fine gentleman to whom a bevy of young girls is devoted, tying his ribbons, and evidently
admiring him and his exquisite costume. The girls are smiling and much amused, while the young
man has an air of immense satisfaction.

At the Salon of 1903 Mlle. Fould exhibited "La Chatouilleuse"--Tickling--and "Nasturtiums."
The first shows a young woman seated, wearing a décolleté gown, while a mischievous companion
steals up behind and tickles her neck with a twig. It is less attractive than many of this
artist's pictures.

In 1890 Mlle. Fould painted a portrait of her stepfather, and for a time devoted herself to
portraits rather than to the subjects she had before studied with such success. In 1893 she
painted a portrait of Rosa Bonheur, in her studio, while the latter paused from her work on
a large picture of lions. This portrait presents the great animal painter in a calm, thoughtful
mood, in the midst of her studio, surrounded by sketches and all the accessories of her work.
In the opinion of many who knew the great artist most intimately this is the best portrait
of her in existence.

Mlle. Fould, at different periods, has painted legendary subjects, at other times religious
pictures, but in my judgment the last were the least successful of her works.

Her "Cinderella" is delightful; the two "Merry Wives of Windsor," sitting on the basket in
which Falstaff is hidden, and from which he is pushing out a hand, is an excellent illustration
of this ever-amusing story, and, indeed, all her pictures of this class may well be praised.

To the Exposition of 1900 she sent an allegorical picture, called "The Gold Mine." A young
woman in gold drapery drops gold coins from her hands. In the background is the entrance to
a mine, lighted dimly by a miner's lamp, while a pickaxe lies at the feet of the woman; this
picture was accorded a bronze medal.

<b>ADAM, MME. NANNY.</b> First prize from the Union of Women Painters and Sculptors, Paris.
Medal from the Salon des Artistes Français, and "honors in many other cities." Member of the
Société des Artistes Français. Born at Crest (Drôme). Her studies were made under Jean Paul
Laurens. Her pictures called "Calme du Soir" and "Le Soir aux Martignes" are in private collections.
"Les Remparts de la Ville Close, Concarneau," exhibited at the Salon Artistes Français in 1902,
was purchased by the French Government. In 1903 she exhibited "June Twilight, Venice," and
"Morning Fog, Holland."

<b>ADELSPARRE, SOPHIE ALBERTINE.</b> Born in Oland 1808-62. In Stockholm she received instruction
from the sculptor Ovarnström and the painter Ekman; after her father's death she went to Paris
and entered the atelier of Cogniet, and later did some work under the direction of her countrymen
Wickenberg and Wahlbom. She had, at this time, already made herself known through her copies
of some of the Italian masters and Murillo. Her copy of the Sistine Madonna was placed by Queen
Josephine in the Catholic church at Christiania. After her return from Dresden where she went
from Paris, she painted portraits of King Oscar and Queen Josephine. In 1851, having received
a government scholarship, she went to Munich, Bologna, and Florence, and lived three years
and a half in Rome, where she was associated with Fogelberg, Overbeck, and Schnetz, and became
a Catholic. During this time she copied Raphael's "Transfiguration," now in the Catholic church
at Stockholm, and painted from life a portrait of Pius IX. for the castle at Drottningholm.
She also painted a "Roman Dancing Girl" and a "Beggar Girl of Terracina."

<b>AHRENS, ELLEN WETHERALD.</b> Second Toppan prize, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Second
prize and silver medal, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg, 1902. Member of the Pennsylvania Academy,
the Plastic Club, and the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters. Born in Baltimore. Studied
at Boston Museum of Fine Arts under Grundmann, Champney, and Stone; Pennsylvania Academy under
Thomas Eakins; Drexel Institute under Howard Pyle.

Many of her portraits are in private hands. That called "Sewing," a prize picture, will be
in the St. Louis Exhibition. Her portrait of Mr. Ellwood Johnson is in the Pennsylvania Academy.
That of Mary Ballard--a miniature--was solicited for exhibition by the Copley Society, Boston.

Miss Ahrens is also favorably known as a designer for stained-glass windows.

<b>ALCOTT, MAY--MME. NIERIKER.</b> Born in Concord, Massachusetts, 1840-79. A sister of the
well-known author, Louisa M. Alcott. This artist studied in the Boston School of Design, in
Krug's Studio, Paris, and under Müller. She made wonderful copies of Turner's pictures, both
in oil and water colors, which were greatly praised by Ruskin and were used in the South Kensington
Art Schools for the pupils to copy. Her still-life and flower pictures are in private collections
and much valued.

She exhibited at the Paris Salon and in the Dudley Gallery, London, and, student as she still
was, her works were approved by art critics on both sides of the Atlantic, and a brilliant
future as an artist was foretold for her. Her married life was short, and her death sincerely
mourned by a large circle of friends, as well as by the members of her profession who appreciated
her artistic genius and her enthusiasm for her work.

<b>ALEXANDER, FRANCESCA.</b> Born in Florence, Italy. Daughter of the portrait painter, Francis
Alexander. Her pen-and-ink drawing is her best work. The exquisite conceits in her illustrations
were charmingly rendered by the delicacy of her work. She thus illustrated an unpublished Italian
legend, writing the text also.

Mr. Ruskin edited her "Story of Ida" and brought out "Roadside Songs of Tuscany," collected,
translated, and illustrated by this artist. A larger collection of these songs, with illustrations,
was published by Houghton, Mifflin & Co., entitled "Tuscan Songs."

<b>ALIPPI-FABRETTI, QUIRINA.</b> Silver medal at Perugia in 1879; honorary member of the Royal
Academy in Urbino and of the Academy of Fine Arts in Perugia. Born in Urbino, 1849. She was
the daughter of the jurisconsult Luigi Alippi. She studied drawing and painting in Rome with
Ortis and De Sanctis. Following her father to Perugia in 1874, whither he had been called to
the Court of Appeals, she continued her study under Moretti. She married Ferdinando Fabretti
in 1877. She made admirable copies of some of the best pictures in Perugia, notably Perugino's
"Presepio" for a church in Mount Lebanon, Syria. She was also commissioned to paint an altar-piece,
representing St. Stephen, for the same church. Her interiors are admirable. She exhibited an
"Interior of the Great Hall of the Exchange of Perugia" in 1884, at Turin. She painted two
interior views of the church of San Giovanni del Cambio in Perugia, and an interior of the
vestibule of the Confraternity of St. Francis. Her other works, besides portraits, include
an "Odalisk," an "Old Woman Fortune-teller," and a "St. Catherine."

<b>ALLINGHAM, HELEN.</b> Honorable mention at Paris Exhibition, 1900; silver medal from Brussels
Exhibition, 1901; bronze medal from the Columbian Exhibition, Chicago. Member of the Royal
Society of Painters in Water Colors, London. Born near Burton-on-Trent, 1848. Began the study
of art at fourteen, in Birmingham School of Art, where she remained about five years, when
she entered the schools of the Royal Academy, where instruction is given by the Royal Academicians
in turn. In 1868 she went to Italy.

Her first exhibition at the Royal Academy occurred in 1874, under the name Helen Patterson;
her pictures were "Wait for Me" and "The Milkmaid." Since that time Mrs. Allingham has constantly
exhibited at the Academy and many other exhibitions.

Her pictures are of genre subjects, chiefly from English rural life and landscapes. She has
also been successful as an illustrator for the Graphic, the Cornhill Magazine, and other publications.
Her water-color portraits of Carlyle in his later years are well known. She introduced his
cat "Tib" into a portrait taken in his Chelsea garden.

Among her most ambitious works are the "Young Customers," the "Old Men's Garden, Chelsea Hospital,"
the "Lady of the Manor," "Confidences," "London Flowers," and others of kindred motives.

The "Young Customers," water-color, was exhibited at Paris in 1878. When seen at the Academy
in 1875, Ruskin wrote of it: "It happens curiously that the only drawing of which the memory
remains with me as a possession out of the Old Water-Color Exhibition of this year--Mrs. Allingham's
'Young Customers'--should be not only by an accomplished designer of woodcuts, but itself the
illustration of a popular story. The drawing with whatever temporary purpose executed, is forever
lovely; a thing which I believe Gainsborough would have given one of his own paintings for--old-fashioned
as red-tipped dresses are, and more precious than rubies."--Notes of the Academy, 1875.

<b>ALMA-TADEMA, LADY LAURA THERESE.</b> Gold medal at International Art Exhibition, Berlin,
1876; medal at Chicago, 1893; second-class medal at Paris Exhibition, 1900. Born in London.
From early childhood this artist was fond of drawing and had the usual drawing-class lessons
at school and also drew from the antique in the British Museum. Her serious study, however,
began at the age of eighteen, under the direction of Laurenz Alma-Tadema.

Her pictures are principally of domestic scenes, child-life, and other genre subjects. "Battledore
and Shuttlecock" is an interior, with a graceful girl playing the game, to the amusement of
a young child sitting on a nurse's lap. The room is attractive, the accessories well painted,
and a second girl just coming through the door and turning her eyes up to the shuttlecock is
an interesting figure.

Of quite a different character is the picture called "In Winter." The landscape is very attractive.
In a sled, well wrapped up, is a little girl, with a doll on her lap; the older boy--brother?--who
pushes the sled from behind, leaning over the child, does his part with a will, and the dignified
and serious expression on the face of the little girl in the sled indicates her sense of responsibility
in the care of the doll as well as a feeling of deep satisfaction in her enjoyable outing.

Among the more important pictures by Lady Alma-Tadema are "Hush-a-Bye," "Parting," in the Art
Gallery at Adelaide, New South Wales, "Silent Persuasion," "The Carol," and "Satisfaction."
Her picture in the Academy Exhibition, 1903, a Dutch interior with a young mother nursing "The
Firstborn," was much admired and was in harmony with the verse,

    Lie on mother's knee, my own,
      Dance your heels about me!
    Apples leave the tree, my own.
      Soon you'll live without me."

<b>AMEN, MADAME J.</b> Honorable mention, Paris, 1901.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ANGUISCIOLA, LUCIA.</b> A pupil of her sister Sofonisba, painted a life-size portrait of
Piermaria, a physician of Cremona. It is in the gallery of the Prado, Madrid, and is signed,
"Lucia Angvisola Amilcares. F. Adolescens."

Lucia's portrait of her sister Europa is at Brescia. Some authorities believe that the small
portrait in the Borghese Gallery is by Lucia, although it has been attributed to Sofonisba.

Vasari relates that Europa and a younger sister, Anna Maria, were artists. A picture of the
Holy Family, inscribed with Europa's name, was formerly in the possession of a vicar of the
church of San Pietro; it was of far less merit than the works of her sisters.

<b>ANGUISCIOLA, SOFONISBA.</b> Born in Cremona, about 1539. Daughter of the patrician, Amilcare
Anguisciola, whose only fame rests on the fact that he was the father of six daughters, all
of whom were distinguished by unusual talents in music and painting. Dear old Vasari was so
charmed by his visit to their palace that he pronounced it "the very home of painting and of
all other accomplishments."

Sofonisba was the second daughter. The actual date of her birth is unknown, but from various
other dates that we have concerning her, that given above is generally adopted. She was educated
with great care and began her study of drawing and painting when but seven years old, under
the care of Bernardino Campi, the best artist of the five Campi of Cremona. Later she was a
pupil of Bernardino Gatti, "il Sojaro," and in turn she superintended the artistic studies
of her sisters.

Sofonisba excelled in portraits, and when twenty-four years old was known all over Italy as
a good artist. Her extraordinary proficiency at an early age is proved by a picture in the
Yarborough collection, London--a portrait of a man, signed, and dated 1551, when she was not
more than twelve years old.

When presented at the court of Milan, then under Spanish rule, Sofonisba was brought to the
notice of Philip II., who, through his ambassador, invited her to fill the office of court
painter at Madrid. Flattering as this invitation must have been to the artist and her family,
it is not surprising that she hesitated and required time for consideration of this honorable
proposal.

The reputation of the ceremonious Spanish court, under its gloomy and exacting sovereign, was
not attractive to a young woman already surrounded by devoted admirers, to one of whom she
had given her heart. The separation from her family, too, and the long, fatiguing journey to
Spain, were objections not easily overcome, and her final acceptance of the proposal was a
proof of her energy and strength of purpose.

Her journey was made in 1560 and was conducted with all possible care for her comfort. She
was attended by two noble ladies as maids of honor, two chamberlains, and six servants in livery--in
truth, her mode of travelling differed but little from that of the young ladies of the royal
family. As she entered Madrid she was received by the king and queen, and by them conducted
to the royal palace.

We can imagine Sofonisba's pleasure in painting the portrait of the lovely Isabella, and her
pictures of Philip and his family soon raised her to the very summit of popularity. All the
grandees of Madrid desired to have their portraits from her hand, and rich jewels and large
sums of money were showered upon her.

Gratifying as was her artistic success, the affection of the queen, which she speedily won,
was more precious to her. She was soon made a lady-in-waiting to her Majesty, and a little
later was promoted to the distinguished position of governess to the Infanta Clara Eugenia.

That Sofonisba fully appreciated her gentle mistress is shown in her letter to Pope Pius IV.,
who had requested her to send him a portrait of the queen. She wrote that no picture could
worthily figure the royal lady, and added: "If it were possible to represent to your Holiness
the beauty of the Queen's soul, you could behold nothing more wonderful."

The Pope bestowed rich gifts on Sofonisba, among which were sacred relics, set with gems. He
also wrote an autograph letter, still in existence, in which he assured her that much as he
admired her skill in painting, he had been led to believe this the least of her many gifts.

Sofonisba soon gained the approval of the serious and solemn King, for while Philip was jealous
of the French ladies of the court and desired Isabella to be wholly under Spanish influence,
he proposed to the artist a marriage with one of his nobles, by which means she would remain
permanently in the Queen's household. When Philip learned that Sofonisba was already betrothed
to Don Fabrizio de Monçada--a Sicilian nobleman--in spite of his disappointment he joined Isabella
in giving her a dowry of twelve thousand crowns and a pension of one thousand.

It would seem that one who could so soften the heart and manners of Philip II. as did Queen
Isabella, must have had a charm of person and character that no ordinary mortal could resist.
One is compelled to a kindly feeling for this much-hated man, who daily visited the Queen when
she was suffering from smallpox. In her many illnesses he was tenderly devoted to her, and
when we remember the miseries of royal ladies whose children are girls, we almost love Philip
for comforting Isabella when her first baby was not a son. Philip declared himself better pleased
that she had given him a daughter, and made the declaration good by devotion to this child
so long as he lived.

Isabella, in a letter to her mother, wrote: "But for the happiness I have of seeing the King
every day I should find this court the dullest in the world. I assure you, however, madame,
that I have so kind a husband that even did I deem this place a hundredfold more wearisome
I should not complain."

While Sofonisba was overwhelmed with commissions in Spain, her sisters were far from idle in
Cremona. Europa sent pictures to Madrid which were purchased for private collections, and a
picture by Lucia is now in the Gallery of the Queen at Madrid.

When the time for Sofonisba's marriage came she was sorry to leave her "second home," as she
called Madrid, and as Don Fabrizio lived but a short time, the King urged her return to Spain;
but her desire to be once more with her family impelled her to return to Italy.

The ship on which she sailed from Sicily was commanded by one of the Lomellini, a noble family
of Genoa, with whom Sofonisba fell so desperately in love that she offered him her hand--which,
says her biographer, "he accepted like a generous man." Does this mean that she had been ungenerous
in depriving him of the privilege of asking for what she so freely bestowed?

In Genoa she devotedly pursued her art and won new honors, while she was not forgotten in Madrid.
Presents were sent her on her second marriage, and later the Infanta Clara Eugenia and other
Spaniards of exalted rank visited her in Genoa. Her palace became a centre of attraction to
Genoese artists and men of letters, while many strangers of note sought her acquaintance. She
contributed largely to the restoration of art and literature to the importance that had been
accorded them in the most brilliant days of Genoese power.

We have not space to recount all the honors conferred on Sofonisba, both as a woman and an
artist. She lived to an extreme old age, and, although she lost her sight, her intellect was
undimmed by time or blindness. Vandyck, who was frequently her guest, more than once declared
that he "was more benefited by the counsels of the blind Sofonisba than by all his studies
of the masters of his art!" From a pupil of Rubens this was praise indeed!

The chief characteristics of Sofonisba's painting were grace and spirit. Her portrait of herself
when at her best is in possession of the Lomellini. A second is the splendid picture at Althorpe,
in which she is represented as playing the harpsichord. One can scarcely imagine a place in
which a portrait would be more severely tested than in the gallery of the Earl of Spencer,
beside portraits of lovely women and famous men, painted by master artists. Yet this work of
Sofonisba's is praised by discerning critics and connoisseurs. Of the other portraits of herself,
that in the Uffizi is signed by her as "of Cremona," which suggests that it was painted before
she went to Spain. That in the Vienna Gallery is dated 1551, and inscribed Sophonisba Anguissola.
Virgo. Sc. Ipsam Fecit. Still another, in which a man stands beside her, is in the Sienna Gallery.
He holds a brush in his hand, and is probably one of her masters.

Her portrait of her sisters playing chess, while an old duenna looks on, was in the collection
of Lucien Bonaparte and is said to be now in a private gallery in England. Her religious pictures
are rare; a "Marriage of St. Catherine" is in the gallery at Wilton House.

She painted several pictures of three of her sisters on one canvas; one is in the National
Museum of Berlin, and a second, formerly in the Leuchtenberg Gallery, is in the Hermitage at
Petersburg. A small Holy Family, signed and dated 1559, belonged to the art critic and author,
Morelli.

One regrets that so remarkable a woman left no record of her unusual experiences. How valuable
would be the story of Don Carlos from so disinterested a person. How interesting had she told
us of the bal masqué, given by Isabella in the fashion of her own country, when Philip condescended
to open the ball with the Queen; or of the sylvan fêtes at Aranjuez, and of the gardens made
under the direction of Isabella. Of all this she has told us nothing. We glean the story of
her life from the works of various authors, while her fame rests securely on her superiority
in the art to which she was devoted.

<b>ANCHER, ANNA KRISTINE.</b> Genre painter, won high praise at Berlin in 1900 for two pictures:
"Tischgebet," which was masterly in its smoothness and depth of expression, and "Eine blinde
Frau in ihrer Stube," in which the full sunlight streaming through the open window produced
an affecting contrast. She was born at Skagen, 1859, the daughter of Erik Brondum, and early
showed her artistic tendencies. Michael Ancher (whom she married in 1880) noticed and encouraged
her talent, which was first displayed in small crayons treating pathetic or humorous subjects.
From 1875-78 she studied with Khyn, and later more or less under the direction of her husband.
She has painted exclusively small pictures, dealing with simple and natural things, and each
picture, as a rule, contains but a single figure. She believes that a dilapidated Skagen hovel
may meet every demand of beauty. "Maageplukkerne"--"Gull plucking"--exhibited in 1883, has
been called one of the most sympathetic and unaffected pieces of genre painting ever produced
by a Danish artist.

An "Old Woman of Skagen," "A Mother and Child," and "Coffee is Ready" were among the most attractive
of her pictures of homely, familiar Danish life. The last represents an old fisher, who has
fallen asleep on the bench by the stove, and a young woman is waking him with the above announcement.

"A Funeral Scene" is in the Copenhagen Gallery. The coffin is hung with green wreaths; the
walls of the room are red; the people stand around with a serious air. The whole story is told
in a simple, homely way.

In the "History of Modern Painters" we read: "All her pictures are softly tender and full of
fresh light. But the execution is downright and virile. It is only in little touches, in fine
and delicate traits of observation which would probably have escaped a man, that these paintings
are recognized as the work of a feminine artist."

<b>ANTIGNA, MME. HÉLÈNE MARIE.</b> Born at Melun. Pupil of her husband, Jean Pierre Antigna,
and of Delacroix. Her best works are small genre subjects, which are excellent and much admired
by other artists.

In 1877 she exhibited at the Paris Salon "On n'entre pas!" and the "New Cider"; in 1876, an
"Interior at Saint Brieuc" and "A Stable"; in 1875, "Tant va la cruche à l'eau," etc.

<b>APPIA, MME. THÉRÈSE.</b> Member of the Society of the Permanente Exposition of the Athénée,
Geneva. Born at Lausanne. Pupil of Mercié and Rodin at Paris.

Mme. Appia, before her marriage, exhibited at the Paris Salon several years continuously. Since
then she has exhibited at Turin and Geneva.

She has executed many portrait busts; among them are those of M. Guillaume Monod, Paris, Commander
Paul Meiller, and a medallion portrait of Père Hyacinthe, etc.

<b>ARGYLL, HER ROYAL HIGHNESS, THE PRINCESS LOUISE, DUCHESS OF.</b> This artist has exhibited
her work since, 1868. Although her sketches in water-color are clever and attractive, it is
as a sculptor that her best work has been done. Pupil of Sir J. E. Boehne, R.A., her unusual
natural talent was carefully developed under his advice, and her unflagging industry and devotion
to her work have enabled her to rival sculptors who live by their art.

Her busts and lesser subjects are refined and delicate, while possessing a certain individuality
which this lady is known to exercise in her direction of the assistant she is forced to employ.
Her chief attainment, the large seated figure of Queen Victoria in Kensington Gardens, is a
work of which she may well be proud.

Of this statue Mr. M. H. Spielmann writes: "The setting up of the figure, the arrangement of
the drapery, the modelling, the design of the pedestal--all the parts, in fact--are such that
the statue must be added to the short list of those which are genuine embellishments to the
city of London."

The Duchess of Argyll has been commissioned to design a statue of heroic size, to be executed
in bronze and placed in Westminster Abbey, to commemorate the colonial troops who gave up their
lives in South Africa in the Boer war.

<b>ARNOLD, ANNIE R. MERRYLEES.</b> Born at Birkenhead. A Scotch miniature painter. Studied
in Edinburgh, first in the School of Art, under Mr. Hodder, and later in the life class of
Robert Macgregor; afterward in Paris under Benjamin-Constant.

Mrs. Arnold writes me that she thinks it important for miniature painters to do work in a more
realistic medium occasionally, and something of a bolder character than can be done in their
specialty. She never studied miniature painting, but took it up at the request of a patroness
who, before the present fashion for this art had come about, complained that she could find
no one who painted miniatures. This lady gave the artist a number of the Girls' Own Journal,
containing directions for miniature painting, after which Mrs. Arnold began to work in this
specialty. She has painted a miniature of Lady Evelyn Cavendish, owned by the Marquis of Lansdowne;
others of the Earl and Countess of Mar and Kellie, the first of which belongs to the Royal
Scottish Academy; one of Lady Helen Vincent, one of the daughter of Lionel Phillips, Esquire,
and several for prominent families in Baltimore and Washington. Her work is seen in the exhibitions
of the Royal Academy, London.

In 1903 she exhibited miniatures of Miss M. L. Fenton, the late Mrs. Cameron Corbett, and the
Hon. Thomas Erskine, younger son of the Earl of Mar and Kellie.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ASSCHE, AMÉLIE VAN.</b> Portrait painter and court painter to Queen Louise Marie of Belgium.
She was born in 1804, and was the daughter of Henri Jean van Assche. Her first teachers were
Mlle. F. Lagarenine and D' Antissier; she later went to Paris, where she spent some time as
a pupil of Millet. She made her début at Ghent in 1820, and in Brussels in 1821, with water-colors
and pastels, and some of her miniatures figured in the various exhibitions at Brussels between
1830 and 1848, and in Ghent between 1835 and 1838. Her portraits, which are thought to be very
good likenesses, are also admirable in color, drawing, and modelling; and her portrait of Leopold
I., which she painted in 1839, won for her the appointment at court.

<b>ASSCHE, ISABEL CATHERINE VAN.</b> She was born at Brussels, 1794. Landscape painter. She
took a first prize at Ghent in 1829, and became a pupil of her uncle, Henri van Assche, who
was often called the painter of waterfalls. As early as 1812 and 1813 two of her water-colors
were displayed in Ghent and Brussels respectively, and she was represented in the exhibitions
at Ghent in 1826, 1829, and 1835; at Brussels in 1827 and 1842; at Antwerp in 1834, 1837, and
1840; and at Lüttich in 1836. Her subjects were all taken from the neighborhood of Brussels,
and one of them belongs to the royal collection in the Pavilion at Haarlem. In 1828 she married
Charles Léon Kindt.

<b>ATHES-PERRELET, LOUISE.</b> First prize and honorable mention, class Gillet and Hébert,
1888; class Bovy, first prize, 1889; Academy class, special mention, 1890; School of Arts,
special mention, hors concours, 1891; also, same year, first prize for sculpture, offered by
the Society of Arts; first prize offered by the Secretary of the Theatre, 1902. Member of the
Union des Femmes and Cercle Artistique. Born at Neuchâtel. Studies made at Geneva under Mme.
Carteret and Mme. Gillet and Professors Hébert and B. Penn, in drawing and painting; M. Bovy,
in sculpture; and of various masters in decorative work and engraving. Has executed statues,
busts, medallion portraits; has painted costumes, according to an invention of her own, for
the Theatre of Geneva, and has also made tapestries in New York. All her works have been commended
in the journals of Geneva and New York.

<b>AUSTEN, WINIFRED.</b> Member of Society of Women Artists, London. Born at Ramsgate. Pupil
of Mrs. Jopling-Rowe and Mr. C. E. Swan. Miss Austen exhibits in the Royal Academy exhibitions;
her works are well hung--one on the line.

Her favorite subjects are wild animals, and she is successful in the illustration of books.
Her pictures are in private collections. At the Royal Academy in 1903 she exhibited "The Day
of Reckoning," a wolf pursued by hunters through a forest in snow. A second shows a snow scene,
with a wolf baying, while two others are apparently listening to him. "While the wolf, in nightly
prowl, bays the moon with hideous howl," is the legend with the picture.

<b>AUZON, PAULINE.</b> Born in Paris, where she died. 1775-1835. She was a pupil of Regnault
and excelled in portraits of women. She exhibited in the Paris Salon from 1793, when but eighteen
years old. Her pictures of the "Arrival of Marie Louise in Compiègne" and "Marie Louise Taking
Leave of her Family" are in the Versailles Gallery.

<b>BABIANO Y MENDEZ NUÑEZ, CARMEN.</b> At the Santiago Exposition, 1875, this artist exhibited
two oil paintings and two landscapes in crayon; at Coruña, 1878, a portrait in oil of the Marquis
de Mendez Nuñez; at Pontevedra, 1880, several pen and water-color studies, three life-size
portraits in crayon, and a work in oil, "A Girl Feeding Chickens."

<b>BAILY, CAROLINE A. B.</b> Gold medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; third-class medal, Salon, 1901.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BAKER, ELIZABETH GOWDY.</b> Medal at Cooper Union. Member of Boston Art Students' Association
and Art Workers' Club for Women, New York. Born at Xenia, Ohio. Pupil of the Cooper Union,
Art Students' League, New York School of Art, Philadelphia Academy of Fine Arts, Cowles Art
School, Boston; under Frederick Freer, William Chase, and Siddons Mowbray.

This artist has painted numerous portraits and has been especially successful with pictures
of children. She has a method of her own of which she has recently written me.

She claims that it is excellent for life-size portraits in water-colors. The paper she uses
is heavier than any made in this country, and must be imported; the water-colors are very strong.
Mrs. Baker claims that in this method she gets "the strength of oils with the daintiness of
water-colors, and that it is beautiful for women and children, and sufficiently strong for
portraits of men."

She rarely exhibits, and her portraits are in private houses.

<b>BAKHUYZEN, JUFFROUW GERARDINA JACOBA VAN DE SANDE.</b> Silver medal at The Hague, 1857;
honorary medal at Amsterdam, 1861; another at The Hague, 1863; and a medal of distinction at
Amsterdam Colonial Exhibition, 1885. Daughter of the well-known animal painter. From childhood
she painted flowers, and for a time this made no especial impression on her family or friends,
as it was not an uncommon occupation for girls. At length her father saw that this daughter,
Gerardina--for he had numerous daughters, and they all desired to be artists--had talent, and
when, in 1850, the Minerva Academy at Groningen gave out "Roses and Dahlias" as a subject,
and offered a prize of a little more than ten dollars for the best example, he encouraged Gerardina
to enter the contest. She received the contemptible reward, and found, to her astonishment,
that the Minerva Academy considered the picture as belonging to them.

However, this affair brought the name of the artist to the knowledge of the public, and she
determined to devote herself to the painting of flowers and fruit, in which she has won unusual
fame. There is no sameness in her pictures, and her subjects do not appear to be "arranged"--everything
seems to have fallen into its place by chance and to be entirely natural.

Gerardina Jacoba and her brother Julius van de Sande Bakhuyzen, the landscape painter, share
one studio. She paints with rapidity, as one must in order to picture the freshness of fast-fading
flowers.

Johan Gram writes of her: "If she paints a basket of peaches or plums, they look as if just
picked by the gardener and placed upon the table, without any thought of studied effect; some
leaves covering the fruit, others falling out of the basket in the most natural way. If she
paints the branch of a rose-tree, it seems to spring from the ground with its flowers in all
their luxurious wantonness, and one can almost imagine one's self inhaling their delightful
perfume. This talented artist knows so well how to depict with her brush the transparency and
softness of the tender, ethereal rose, that one may seek in vain among a crowd of artists for
her equal.... The paintings are all bright and sunny, and we are filled with enthusiasm when
gazing at her powerful works."

This artist was born in 1826 and died in 1895. She lived and died in her family residence.
In 1850, at Groningen, she took for her motto, "Be true to nature and you will produce that
which is good." To this she remained faithful all her days.

<b>BALDWIN, EDITH ELLA.</b> Born at Worcester, Massachusetts. Studied in Paris at Julian Academy,
under Bouguereau and Robert-Fleury; at the Colarossi studios under Courtois, also under Julius
Rolshoven and Mosler.

Paints portraits and miniatures. At the Salon of the Champ de Mars she exhibited a portrait
in pastel, in 1901; at exhibitions of the Society of American Artists in 1898 and 1899 she
exhibited miniatures; also pictures in oils at Worcester, 1903.

<b>BALL, CAROLINE PEDDLE.</b> Honorable mention at Paris Exhibition, 1900. Member of the Guild
of Arts and Crafts and of Art Students' League. Born at Terre Haute, Indiana. Pupil at the
Art Students' League, under Augustus St. Gaudens and Kenyon Cox.

This sculptor exhibited at Paris a Bronze Clock. She designed for the Tiffany Glass Company
the figure of the Young Virgin and that of the Christ of the Sacred Heart.

A memorial fountain at Flushing, Long Island, a medallion portrait of Miss Cox of Terre Haute,
a monument to a child in the same city, a Victory in a quadriga, seen on the United States
Building, Paris, 1900, and also at the Buffalo Exhibition, 1901, are among her important works.

<b>BAÑUELOS, ANTONIA.</b> At the Paris Exposition of 1878 several portraits by this artist
attracted attention, one of them being a portrait of herself. At the Exposition of 1880 she
exhibited "A Guitar Player."

<b>BARRANTES MANUEL DE ARAGON, MARIA DEL CÁRMEN.</b> Member of the Academy of San Fernando,
Madrid, 1816. This institution possesses a drawing by her of the "Virgin with the Christ-Child"
and a portrait in oil of a person of the epoch of Charles III.

<b>BASHKIRTSEFF, MARIE.</b> Born in Russia of a noble family. 1860-84. This remarkable young
woman is interesting in various phases of her life, but here it is as an artist that she is
to be considered. Her journal, she tells us, is absolutely truthful, and it is but courteous
to take the story of her artistic career from that. She had lessons in drawing, as many children
do, but she gives no indication of a special love for art until she visits Florence when fourteen
years old, and her love of pictures and statues is awakened. She spent hours in galleries,
never sitting down, without fatigue, in spite of her delicacy. She says: "That is because the
things one loves do not tire one. So long as there are pictures and, better still, statues
to be seen, I am made of iron." After questioning whether she dare say it, she confides to
her readers: "I don't like the Madonna della Sedia of Raphael. The countenance of the Virgin
is pale, the color is not natural, the expression is that of a waiting-maid rather than of
a Madonna. Ah, but there is a Magdalen of Titian that enchanted me. Only--there must always
be an only--her wrists are too thick and her hands are too plump--beautiful hands they would
be on a woman of fifty. There are things of Rubens and Vandyck that are ravishing. The 'Mensonge'
of Salvator Rosa is very natural. I do not speak as a connoisseur; what most resembles nature
pleases me most. Is it not the aim of painting to copy nature? I like very much the full, fresh
countenance of the wife of Paul Veronese, painted by him. I like the style of his faces. I
adore Titian and Vandyck; but that poor Raphael! Provided only no one knows what I write; people
would take me for a fool; I do not criticise Raphael; I do not understand him; in time I shall
no doubt learn to appreciate his beauties. The portrait of Pope Leo X.--I think it is--is admirable,
however." A surprising critique for a girl of her age!

When seventeen she made her first picture of any importance. "While they were playing cards
last night I made a rough sketch of the players--and this morning I transferred the sketch
to canvas. I am delighted to have made a picture of persons sitting down in different attitudes;
I copied the position of the hands and arms, the expressions of the countenance, etc. I had
never before done anything but heads, which I was satisfied to scatter over the canvas like
flowers."

Her enthusiasm for her art constantly increased. She was not willing to acknowledge her semi-invalidism
and was filled with the desire to do something in art that would live after her. She was opposed
by her family, who wished her to be in fashionable society. At length she had her way, and
when not quite eighteen began to study regularly at the Julian Academy. She worked eight and
nine hours a day. Julian encouraged her, she rejoiced in being with "real artists who have
exhibited in the Salon and whose pictures are bought," and declared herself "happy, happy!"
Before long M. Julian told her that she might become a great artist, and the first time that
Robert-Fleury saw her work and learned how little she had studied, and that she had never before
drawn from a living model, he said: "Well, then, you have extraordinary talent for painting;
you are specially gifted, and I advise you to work hard."

Her masters always assured her of her talent, but she was much of the time depressed. She admired
the work of Mlle. Breslau and acknowledged herself jealous of the Swiss artist. But after a
year of study she took the second prize in the Academy, and admitted that she ought to be content.

Robert-Fleury took much interest in her work, and she began to hope to equal Breslau; but she
was as often despondent as she was happy, which no doubt was due to her health, for she was
already stricken with the malady from which she died. Julian wondered why, with her talent,
it was so difficult for her to paint; to herself she seemed paralyzed.

In the autumn of 1879 she took a studio, and, besides her painting, she essayed modelling.
In 1880 her portrait of her sister was exhibited at the Salon, and her mother and other friends
were gratified by its acceptance.

At one time Mlle. Bashkirtseff had suffered with her eyes, and, getting better of that, she
had an attack of deafness. For these reasons she went, in the summer of 1880, to Mont-Dore
for treatment, and was much benefited in regard to her deafness, though not cured, and now
the condition of her lungs was recognized, and what she had realized for some time was told
to her family. She suffered greatly from the restrictions of her condition. She could not read
very much, as her eyes were not strong enough to read and paint; she avoided people because
of her deafness; her cough was very tiresome and her breathing difficult.

At the Salon of 1881 her picture was well hung and was praised by artists. In the autumn of
that year she was very ill, but happily, about the beginning of 1882, she was much better and
again enthusiastic about her painting. She had been in Spain and excited admiration in Madrid
by the excellence of her copy of "Vulcan," by Velasquez. January 15th she wrote: "I am wrapped
up in my art. I think I caught the sacred fire in Spain at the same time that I caught the
pleurisy. From being a student I now begin to be an artist. This sudden influx of power puts
me beside myself with joy. I sketch future pictures; I dream of painting an Ophelia. Potain
has promised to take me to Saint-Anne to study faces of the mad women there, and then I am
full of the idea of painting an old man, an Arab, sitting down singing to the accompaniment
of a kind of guitar; and I am thinking also of a large affair for the coming Salon--a view
of the Carnival; but for this it would be necessary that I should go to Nice--to Naples first
for the Carnival, and then to Nice, where I have my villa, to paint it in open air."

She now met Bastien-Lepage, who, while he was somewhat severe in his criticism of her work,
told her seriously that she was "marvellously gifted." This gave her great pleasure, and, indeed,
just at this time the whole tone of the journal and her art enthusiasm are most comforting
after the preceding despairing months. From this time until her death her journal is largely
occupied with her health, which constantly failed, but her interest in art and her intense
desire to do something worthy of a great artist--something that Julian, Robert-Fleury, and,
above all, Bastien-Lepage, could praise, seemed to give her strength, and, in spite of the
steady advance of the fell tuberculosis from which she was dying, she worked devotedly.

She had a fine studio in a new home of the family, and was seized with an ardent desire to
try sculpture--she did a little in this art--but that which proved to be her last and best
work was her contribution to the Salon of 1884. This brought her to the notice of the public,
and she had great pleasure, although mingled with the conviction of her coming death and the
doubts of her ability to do more. Of this time she writes: "Am I satisfied? It is easy to answer
that question; I am neither satisfied nor dissatisfied. My success is just enough to keep me
from being unhappy. That is all."

Again: "I have just returned from the Salon. We remained a long time seated on a bench before
the picture. It attracted a good deal of attention, and I smiled to myself at the thought that
no one would ever imagine the elegantly dressed young girl seated before it, showing the tips
of her little boots, to be the artist. Ah, all this is a great deal better than last year!
Have I achieved a success, in the true, serious meaning of the word? I almost think so."

The picture was called the "Meeting," and shows seven gamins talking together before a wooden
fence at the corner of a street. François Coppée wrote of it: "It is a chef d'oeuvre, I maintain.
The faces and the attitudes of the children are strikingly real. The glimpse of meagre landscape
expresses the sadness of the poorer neighborhoods."

Previous to this time, her picture of two boys, called "Jean and Jacques," had been reproduced
in the Russian Illustration, and she now received many requests for permission to photograph
and reproduce her "Meeting," and connoisseurs made requests to be admitted to her studio. All
this gratified her while it also surprised. She was at work on a picture called "Spring," for
which she went to Sèvres, to paint in the open.

Naturally she hoped for a Salon medal, and her friends encouraged her wish--but alas! she was
cruelly disappointed. Many thought her unfairly treated, but it was remembered that the year
before she had publicly spoken of the committee as "idiots"!

People now wished to buy her pictures and in many ways she realized that she was successful.
How pathetic her written words: "I have spent six years, working ten hours a day, to gain what?
The knowledge of all I have yet to learn in my art, and a fatal disease!"

It is probable that the "Meeting" received no medal because it was suspected that Mlle. Bashkirtseff
had been aided in her work. No one could tell who had originated this idea, but as some medals
had been given to women who did not paint their pictures alone, the committee were timid, although
there seems to have been no question as to superiority.

A friendship had grown up between the families Bashkirtseff and Bastien-Lepage. Both the great
artist and the dying girl were very ill, but for some time she and her mother visited him every
two or three days. He seemed almost to live on these visits and complained if they were omitted.
At last, ill as Bastien-Lepage was, he was the better able of the two to make a visit. On October
16th she writes of his being brought to her and made comfortable in one easy-chair while she
was in another. "Ah, if I could only paint!" he said. "And I?" she replied. "There is the end
to this year's picture!"

These visits were continued. October 20th she writes of his increasing feebleness. She wrote
no more, and in eleven days was dead.

In 1885 the works of Marie Bashkirtseff were exhibited. In the catalogue was printed François
Coppée's account of a visit he had made her mother a few months before Marie's death. He saw
her studio and her works, and wrote, after speaking of the "Meeting," as follows:

"At the Exhibition--Salon--before this charming picture, the public had with a unanimous voice
bestowed the medal on Mlle. B., who had been already 'mentioned' the year before. Why was this
verdict not confirmed by the jury? Because the artist was a foreigner? Who knows? Perhaps because
of her wealth. This injustice made her suffer, and she endeavored--the noble child--to avenge
herself by redoubling her efforts.

"In one hour I saw there twenty canvases commenced; a hundred designs--drawings, painted studies,
the cast of a statue, portraits which suggested to me the name of Frans Hals, scenes made from
life in the open streets; notably one large sketch of a landscape--the October mist on the
shore, the trees half stripped, big yellow leaves strewing the ground. In a word, works in
which is incessantly sought, or more often asserts itself, the sentiment of the sincerest and
most original art, and of the most personal talent."

Mathilde Blind, in her "Study of Marie Bashkirtseff," says: "Marie loved to recall Balzac's
questionable definition that the genius of observation is almost the whole of human genius.
It was natural it should please her, since it was the most conspicuous of her many gifts. As
we might expect, therefore, she was especially successful as a portrait painter, for she had
a knack of catching her sitter's likeness with the bloom of nature yet fresh upon it. All her
likenesses are singularly individual, and we realize their character at a glance. Look, for
example, at her portrait of a Parisian swell, in irreproachable evening dress and white kid
gloves, sucking his silver-headed cane, with a simper that shows all his white teeth; and then
at the head and bust of a Spanish convict, painted from life at the prison in Granada. Compare
that embodiment of fashionable vacuity with this face, whose brute-like eyes haunt you with
their sadly stunted look. What observation is shown in the painting of those heavily bulging
lips, which express weakness rather than wickedness of disposition--in those coarse hands engaged
in the feminine occupation of knitting a blue and white stocking!"

<b>BAUCK, JEANNA.</b> Born in Stockholm in 1840. Portrait and landscape painter. In 1863 she
went to Dresden, and studied figure work with Professor Ehrhardt; later she moved to Düsseldorf,
where she devoted herself to landscape under Flamm, and in 1866 she settled in Munich, where
she has since remained, making long visits to Paris, Venice, and parts of Switzerland. Her
later work is marked by the romantic influence of C. Ludwig, who was for a time her instructor,
but she shows unusual breadth and sureness in dealing with difficult subjects, such as dusky
forests with dark waters or bare ruins bordered with stiff, ghost-like trees. Though not without
talent and boldness, she lacks a feeling for style.

<b>BAUERLÉ, MISS A.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BAXTER, MARTHA WHEELER.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BEALE, MARY.</b> 1632-97. This artist was the daughter of the Rev. Mr. Cradock. She married
Mr. Beale, an artist and a color-maker. She studied under Sir Peter Lely, who obtained for
her the privilege of copying some of Vandyck's most famous works.

Mrs. Beale's portraits of Charles II., Cowley, and the Duke of Norfolk are in the National
Portrait Gallery, London, and that of Archbishop Tillotson is in Lambeth Palace. This portrait
was the first example of an ecclesiastic represented as wearing a wig instead of the usual
silk coif.

Her drawing was excellent and spirited, her color strong and pure, and her portraits were sought
by many distinguished persons.

Several poems were written in praise of this artist, in one of which, by Dr. Woodfall, she
is called "Belasia." Her husband, Charles Beale, an inferior artist, was proud of his wife,
and spent much time in recording the visits she received, the praises lavished on her, and
similar matters concerning her art and life. He left more than thirty pocket-notebooks filled
with these records, and showed himself far more content that his wife should be appreciated
than any praise of himself could have made him.

<b>BEAURY-SAUREL, MME. AMÉLIE.</b> Prize of honor at Exposition of Black and White, 1891; third-class
medal, Salon, 1883; bronze medal, Exposition, 1889. Born at Barcelona, of French parents. Pupil
of Julian Academy. Among her principal portraits are those of Léon Say, Félix Voisin, Barthélemy
Saint-Hilaire, Mme. Sadi-Carnot, Coralie Cohen, Princess Ghika, etc. She has also painted the
"Two Vanquished Ones," "A Woman Physician," and a "Souvenir of a Bull-Fight," pastel, etc.

This artist has also contributed to several magazines. At the Salon of the Artistes Français,
1902, she exhibited a portrait and a picture of "Hamlet"; in 1903 a picture, "In the Train."
Mme. Beaury-Saurel is also Mme. Julian, wife of the head of the Academy in which she was educated.

<b>BEAUX, CECILIA.</b> Mary Smith prize at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, 1885, 1887,
1891, 1892; gold medal, Philadelphia Art Club, 1893; Dodge prize, National Academy of Design,
1893; bronze medal, Carnegie Institute, 1896; first-class gold medal, $1,500, Carnegie Institute,
1899; Temple gold medal, Pennsylvania Academy, 1900; gold medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; gold
medal, (?) 1901. Associate of National Academy of Design, member of Society of American Artists,
associate of Société des Beaux-Arts, Paris. Born in Philadelphia. Studied under Mrs. T. A.
Janvier, Adolf van der Weilen, and William Sartain in Philadelphia; under Robert-Fleury, Bouguereau,
and Benjamin-Constant, in Paris.

Her portraits are numerous. In 1894 she exhibited a portrait of a child at the Exhibition of
the Society of American Artists, which was much admired and noticed in the Century Magazine,
September, 1894, as follows: "Few artists have the fresh touch which the child needs and the
firm and rapid execution which allows the painter to catch the fleeting expression and the
half-forms which make child portraits at once the longing and the despair of portrait painters.
Miss Beaux's technique is altogether French, sometimes reminding me a little of Carolus Duran
and of Sargent; but her individuality has triumphed over all suggestions of her foreign masters,
and the combination of refinement and strength is altogether her own."

Seven years later, in the International Studio, September, 1901, we read: "The mention of style
suggests a reference to the portraits by Miss Cecilia Beaux, while the allusion to characterization
suggests at the same time their limitation. The oftener one sees her 'Mother and Daughter,'
which gained the gold medal at Pittsburg in 1899 and the gold medal also at last year's Paris
Exposition, the less one feels inclined to accept it as a satisfactory example of portraiture.
Magnificent assurance of method it certainly has, controlled also by a fine sobriety of feeling,
so that no part of the ensemble impinges upon the due importance of the other parts; it is
a balanced, dignified picture. But in its lack of intimacy it is positively callous. One has
met these ladies on many occasions, but with no increase of acquaintanceship or interest on
either side--our meetings are sterile of any human interest. So one turns with relief to Miss
Beaux's other picture of 'Dorothea and Francesca'--an older girl leading a younger one in the
steps of a dance. They are not concerned with us, but at least interested in one another; and
we can attach ourselves, if only as outsiders, to the human interest involved.

"These pictures suggest a moment's consideration of the true meaning of the term 'style' as
applied to painting. Is it not more than the mere ableness of method, still more than the audacity
of brush work, that often passes for style? Is it possible to dissociate the manner of a picture
from its embodiment of some fact or idea? For it to have style in the full sense of the word,
surely it must embody an expression of life as serious and thorough as the method of record."--Charles
H. Caffin.

In the International Studio of March, 1903, we read: "The portrait of Mrs. Roosevelt, by Miss
Cecilia Beaux, seemed to me to be one of the happiest of her creations. Nothing could exceed
the skill and daintiness with which the costume is painted, and the characterization of the
head is more sympathetic than usual, offering a most winsome type of beautiful, good womanhood.
A little child has been added to the picture--an afterthought, I understand, and scarcely a
fortunate one; at least in the manner of its presentment. The figure is cleverly merged in
half shadow, but the treatment of the face is brusque, and a most unpleasant smirk distorts
the child's mouth. It is the portrait of the mother that carries the picture, and its superiority
to many of Miss Beaux's portraits consists in the sympathy with her subject which the painter
has displayed."--Charles H. Caffin.

A writer in the Mail and Express says: "Miss Beaux has approached the task of painting the
society woman of to-day, not as one to whom this type is known only by the exterior, but with
a sympathy as complete as a similar tradition and an artistic temperament will allow. Thus
she starts with an advantage denied to all but a very few American portrait painters, and this
explains the instinctive way in which she gives to her pictured subjects an air of natural
ease and good breeding."

Miss Beaux's picture of "Brighton Cats" is so excellent that one almost regrets that she has
not emulated Mme. Ronner's example and left portraits of humans to the many artists who cannot
paint cats!

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BECK, CAROL H.</b> Mary Smith prize at Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, 1899. Fellow of
above Academy and member of the Plastic Club, Philadelphia. Born in Philadelphia. Studied in
schools of Pennsylvania Academy, and later in Dresden and Paris.

Miss Beck paints portraits and her works have been frequently exhibited. Her portraits are
also seen in the University of Pennsylvania, in the Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia,
in Wesleyan College, at the capitols of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, and other public places,
as well as in many private homes.

Miss Beck edited the Catalogue of the Wilstach Collection of Paintings in Memorial Hall, Fairmount
Park, Philadelphia.

<b>BECKINGTON, ALICE.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BEERNAERTS, EUPHROSINE.</b> Landscape painter. In 1873 she won a medal at Vienna, in 1875
a gold medal at the Brussels Salon, and still other medals at Philadelphia (1876), Sydney (1879),
and Teplitz (1879). She was made Chévalier de l'Ordre de Léopold in 1881. Mlle. Beernaerts
was born at Ostend, 1831, and studied under Kuhner in Brussels. She travelled in Germany, France,
and Italy, and exhibited admirable landscapes at Brussels, Antwerp, and Paris, her favorite
subjects being Dutch. In 1878 the following pictures by her were shown in Paris: "Lisière de
bois dans les Dunes (Zélande)," "Le Village de Domburg (Zélande)," and "Intérieur de bois à
Oost-Kapel (Holland)." Other well-known works are "Die Campine" and "Aus der Umgebung von Oosterbeck."

<b>BEGAS, LUISE PARMENTIER.</b> Born in Vienna. Pupil of Schindler and Unger. She travelled
extensively in Europe and the Orient, and spent some time in Sicily. She married Adalbert Begas
in 1877 and then established her studio in Berlin. Her subjects are landscape, architectural
monuments, and interiors. Some of the latter are especially fine. Her picture of the "Burial
Ground at Scutari" was an unusual subject at the time it was exhibited and attracted much attention.

Her rich gift in the use of color is best seen in her pictures of still life and flowers. In
Berlin, in 1890, she exhibited "Before the Walls of Constantinople" and "From Constantinople,"
which were essentially different from her earlier works and attracted much attention. "Taormina
in Winter" more nearly resembled her earlier pictures.

Fräulein Parmentier also studied etching, in which art Unger was her instructor. In her exquisite
architectural pictures and landscapes she has represented Italian motives almost exclusively.
Among these are her views of Venice and other South Italian sketches, which are also the subjects
of some of her etchings.

<b>BELLE, MLLE. ANDRÉE.</b> Member of the Société Nationale des Beaux Arts. Born in Paris.
Pupil of Cazin. Paints in oils and pastels, landscapes especially, of which she exhibited seventeen
in June, 1902. The larger part of these were landscape portraits, so to speak, as they were
done on the spots represented with faithfulness to detail. The subjects were pleasing, and
the various hours of day, with characteristic lighting, unusually well rendered.

At the Salon des Beaux Arts, 1902, this artist exhibited a large pastel, "A Halt at St. Mammès"
and a "Souvenir of Bormes," showing the tomb of Cazin. In 1903 she exhibited a pastel called
"Calvary," now in the Museum at Amiens, which has been praised for its harmony of color and
the manner in which the rainbow is represented. Her pictures of "Twilight" and "Sunset" are
unusually successful.

<b>BENATO-BELTRAMI, ELISABETTA.</b> Painter and sculptor of the nineteenth century, living
in Padua since 1858. Her talent, which showed itself early, was first developed by an unknown
painter named Soldan, and later at the Royal Academy in Venice. She made copies of Guido, Sassoferrato
and Veronese, the Laokoon group, and the Hercules of Canova, and executed a much-admired bas-relief
called "Love and Innocence." Among her original paintings are an "Atala and Chactas," "Petrarch's
First Meeting with Laura," a "Descent from the Cross" for the church at Tribano, a "St. Sebastian,"
"Melancholy," a "St. Ciro," and many Madonnas. Her pictures are noble in conception and firm
in execution.

<b>BENITO Y TEJADA, BENITA.</b> Born in Bilboa, where she first studied drawing; later she
went to Madrid, where she entered the Escuela superior. In the Exposition of 1876 at Madrid
"The Guardian" was shown, and in 1881 a large canvas representing "The First Step."

<b>BERNHARDT, SARAH.</b> In 1869 this famous actress watched Mathieu-Meusnier making a bust.
She made her criticisms and they were always just. The sculptor told her that she had the eye
of an artist and should use her talent in sculpture. Not long after she brought to him a medallion
portrait of her aunt. So good was it that Mathieu-Meusnier seriously encouraged her to persevere
in her art. She was fascinated by the thought of what might be possible for her, took a studio,
and sent to the Salon in 1875 a bust, which attracted much attention. In 1876 she exhibited
"After the Tempest," the subject taken from the story of a poor woman who, having buried two
sons, saw the body of her last boy washed ashore after a storm. This work was marvellously
effective, and a great future as a sculptress was foretold for the "divine Sara." At the Salon
of 1878 she exhibited two portrait busts in bronze.

This remarkable woman is a painter also, and exhibited a picture called "La jeune Fille et
la Mort." One critic wrote of it: "Sarah's picture shows very considerable feeling for color
and more thought than the vast majority of modern paintings. The envious and evil speakers,
who always want to say nasty things, pretend to trace in the picture very frequent touches
of Alfred Stevens, who has been Sarah's master in painting, as Mathieu-Meusnier was in sculpture.
However that may be, Sarah has posed her figures admirably and her coloring is excellent. It
is worthy of notice that, being as yet a comparative beginner, she has not attempted to give
any expression to the features of the young girl over whose shoulder Death is peeping."

One of the numerous ephemeral journals which the young and old jeunesse of the Latin Quarter
is constantly creating has made a very clever caricature of the picture in a sort of Pompeian
style. Death is represented by the grinning figure of Coquelin ainé. The legend is "'La Jeune
Fille et la Mort,' or Coquelin ainé, presenting Sarah Bernhardt the bill of costs of her fugue."
In other words, Coquelin is Death, handing to Sarah the undertaker's bill--300,000 francs--for
her civil burial at the Comédie Française.

<b>BETHUNE, LOUISE.</b> This architect, whose maiden name was Blanchard, was born in Waterloo,
New York, 1856. She studied drawing and architecture, and in 1881 opened an office, being the
first woman architect in the United States. Since her marriage to Robert A. Bethune they have
practised their art together. Mrs. Bethune is the only woman holding a fellowship in the American
Institute of Architects.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BEVERIDGE, KÜHNE.</b> Honorable mention in Paris twice. Born in Springfield, Illinois. Studied
under William R. O'Donovan in New York, and under Rodin in Paris.

Among her works are a statue called "Rhodesia," "Rough Rider Monument," a statue called "Lascire,"
which belongs to Dr. Jameson, busts of Cecil Rhodes, King Edward VII., Grover Cleveland, Vice-President
Stevenson, Joseph Jefferson, Buffalo Bill, General Mahon, hero of Mafeking, Thomas L. Johnson,
and many others.

Miss Beveridge was first noticed as an artist in this country in 1892, when her busts of ex-President
Cleveland and Mr. Jefferson called favorable attention to her.

In 1899 she married Charles Coghlan, and soon discovered that he had a living wife at the time
of her marriage and obtained a divorce. Before she went to South Africa Miss Beveridge had
executed several commissions for Cecil Rhodes and others living in that country.

Her mother is now the Countess von Wrede, her home being in Europe, where her daughter has
spent much time. She has married the second time, an American, Mr. Branson, who resides at
Johannesburg, in the Transvaal.

<b>BIFFIN, SARAH.</b> 1784-1850. It seems a curious fact that several persons born without
arms and hands have become reputable artists. This miniature painter was one of these. Her
first teacher, a man named Dukes, persuaded her to bind herself to live in his house and give
her time to his service for some years. Later, when the Earl of Morton made her acquaintance,
he proved to her that her engagement was not legally binding and wished her to give it up;
but Miss Biffin was well treated by the Dukes and preferred to remain with them.

The Earl of Morton, however, caused her to study under Mr. Craig, and she attained wonderful
excellence in her miniatures. In 1821 the Duke of Sussex, on behalf of the Society of Arts,
presented her with a prize medal for one of her pictures.

She remained sixteen years with the Dukes, and during this time never received more than five
pounds a year! After leaving them she earned a comfortable income. She was patronized by George
III. and his successors, and Queen Victoria and the Prince Consort were her generous patrons,
as well as many other distinguished persons.

After the death of the Earl of Morton she had no other friend to aid her in getting commissions
or selling her finished pictures, and she moved to Liverpool. A small annuity was purchased
for her, which, in addition to the few orders she received, supported her until her death at
the age of sixty-six. Her miniatures have been seen in loan collections in recent years. Her
portrait of herself, on ivory, was exhibited in such a collection at South Kensington.

<b>BILDERS, MARIE.</b> Family name Van Bosse. Born in Amsterdam, 1837; died in Wiesbaden, 1900.
Pupil of Van de Sande-Bakhuyzen, Bosboom, and Johannes W. Bilders. Settled in Oosterbeck, and
painted landscapes from views in the neighborhood. This artist was important, and her works
are admired especially by certain Dutch artists who are famous in all countries. These facts
are well known to me from good authority, but I fail to find a list of her works or a record
of their present position.[1]

[Footnote 1: See Appendix.]

<b>BILINSKA, ANNA.</b> Received the small gold medal at Berlin in 1891, and won distinguished
recognition at other international exhibitions in Berlin and Munich by her portraits and figure
studies. She was born in Warsaw in 1858, and died there in 1893. She studied in Paris, where
she quickly became a favorite painter of aristocratic Russians and Poles. Her pictures are
strong and of brilliant technique.

<b>BIONDI, NICOLA.</b> Born at Capua, 1866. This promising young Italian painter was a pupil
of the Institute of Fine Arts in Naples. One of her pictures, called "Una partita," was exhibited
at Naples and attracted much attention. It was purchased by Duke Martini. Another, "Ultima
Prova," was exhibited in Rome and favorably noticed.

<b>BLAU, TINA.</b> Honorable mention in Paris, 1883, for her "Spring in the Prater." Her "Land
Party" is in the possession of the Emperor of Austria, and "In Spring-time" belongs to the
Prince Regent of Bavaria. This talented landscape painter was born in Vienna, 1847. She was
a pupil of Schäffer in Vienna, and of W. Lindenschmitt in Munich. After travelling in Austria,
Holland, and Italy, she followed her predilection for landscape, and chose her themes in great
part from those countries. In 1884 she married Heinrich Lang, painter of battle scenes (who
died in 1891), and she now works alternately in Munich and Vienna. In 1890 she gave an exhibition
of her pictures in Munich; they were thought to show great vigor of composition and color and
much delicacy of artistic perception. Her foreign scenes, especially, are characterized by
unusual local truth and color. Among her best works are "Studies from the Prater in Vienna,"
"Canal at Amsterdam," "Harvest Day in Holland," "The Arch of Titus in Rome," "Street in Venice,"
and "Late Summer."

<b>BLOCH, MME. ELISA.</b> Honorable mention, 1894. Officer of public instruction, Commander
of the Order of the Liberator; Chevalier of the Order of the Dragon of Annam. Born at Breslau,
Silesia, 1848. Pupil of Chapu. She first exhibited at the Salon of 1878, a medallion portrait
of M. Bloch; this was followed by "Hope," the "Golden Age," "Virginius Sacrificing his Daughter,"
"Moses Receiving the Tables of the Law," etc. Mme. Bloch has made numerous portrait busts,
among them being the kings of Spain and Portugal, Buffalo Bill, C. Flammarion, etc.

At the Salon of the Artistes Français, 1903, Mme. Bloch exhibited a "Portrait of M. Frédéric
Passy, Member of the Institute."

<b>BOCCARDO, LINA ZERBINAH.</b> Rome.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BOEMM, RITTA.</b> A Hungarian artist. Has been much talked of in Dresden. She certainly
possesses distinguished talents, and is easily in the front rank of Dresden women artists.
Her gouache pictures dealing with Hungarian subjects, a "Village Street," a "Peasant Farm,"
a "Churchyard," exhibited at Dresden in 1892, were well drawn and full of sentiment, but lacking
in color sense and power. She works unevenly and seems pleased when she succeeds in setting
a scene cleverly. She paints portraits also, mostly in pastel, which are spirited, but not
especially good likenesses. What she can do in the way of color may be seen in her "Village
Street in Winter," a picture of moderate size, in which the light is exquisite; unfortunately
most of her painting is less admirable than this.

<b>BOISSONNAS, MME. CAROLINE SORDET.</b> Honorable mention at the Salon of Lyons, 1897. Member
of the Exposition Permanente Amis des Beaux-Arts, Geneva. Born in Geneva. Pupil of the School
of Fine Arts, Geneva, under Prof. F. Gillet and M. E. Ravel.

This artist paints portraits principally. She has been successful, and her pictures are in
Geneva, Lausanne, Vevey, Paris, Lyons, Marseilles, Dresden, Naples, etc.

<b>BOMPIANI-BATTAGLIA, CLELIA.</b> Born in Rome, 1847. Pupil of her father, Roberto Bompiani,
and of the professors in the Academy of St. Luke. The following pictures in water-colors have
established her reputation as an artist: "Confidential Communication," 1885; the "Fortune-Teller,"
1887; "A Public Copyist," 1888; and "The Wooing," 1888.

<b>BONHEUR, JULIETTE--MME. PEYROL.</b> Born at Paris. Sister of Rosa Bonheur, and a pupil of
her father. Among her pictures are "A Flock of Geese," "A Flock of Sheep Lying Down," and kindred
subjects. The last-named work was much remarked at the Salon of 1875. In 1878 she exhibited
"The Pool" and "The Mother's Kiss."

Mme. Peyrol was associated with her famous sister in the conduct of the Free School of Design,
founded by Rosa Bonheur in 1849.

<b>BONHEUR, MARIE ROSALIE.</b> 1822-99. Member of Antwerp Institute, 1868. Salon medals, 1845,
1848, 1855, 1867; Legion of Honor, 1865; Leopold Cross, 1880; Commander's Cross, Royal Order
of Isabella the Catholic, 1880. Born in Bordeaux. She was taught drawing by her father, who,
perceiving that she had unusual talent, permitted her to give up dressmaking, to which, much
against her will, she had been apprenticed. From 1855 her fame was established; she was greatly
appreciated, and her works competed for in England and the United States, as well as in European
countries.

Her chief merit is the actual truthfulness with which she represented animals. Her skies might
be bettered in some cases--the atmosphere of her pictures was sometimes open to question--but
her animals were anatomically perfect and handled with such virility as few men have excelled
or even equalled. Her position as an artist is so established that no quoted opinions are needed
when speaking of her--she was one of the most famous women of her century.

Her home at By was near Fontainebleau, where she lived quietly, and for some years held gratuitous
classes for drawing. She left, at her death, a collection of pictures, studies, etchings, etc.,
which were sold by auction in Paris soon after.

Her "Ploughing in the Nivernais," 1848, is in the Luxembourg Gallery; "The Horse Fair," 1853,
is seen in the National Gallery, London, in a replica, the original being in the United States,
purchased by the late A. T. Stewart. Her "Hay Harvest in the Auvergne," 1855, is one of her
most important works. After 1867 Mlle. Bonheur did not exhibit at the Salon until 1899, a few
weeks before her death.

One must pay a tribute to this artist as a good and generous woman. She founded the Free School
of Design for Girls, and in 1849 took the direction of it and devoted much of her valuable
time to its interests. How valuable an hour was to her we may understand when we remember that
Hamerton says: "I have seen work of hers which, according to the price given, must have paid
her a hundred pounds for each day's labor."

The story of her life is of great interest, and can be but slightly sketched here.

She was afoot betimes in the morning, and often walked ten or twelve miles and worked hard
all day. The difficulty of reaching her models proved such a hindrance to her that she conceived
the idea of visiting the abattoirs, where she could see animals living and dead and study their
anatomy.

It is not easy to imagine all the difficulties she encountered in doing this--the many repulsive
features of such places--while the company of drovers and butchers made one of the disagreeables
of her pursuits. Her love for the animals, too, made it doubly hard for her to see them in
the death agony and listen to their pitiful cries for freedom.

In all this experience, however, she met no rude or unkind treatment. Her drawings won the
admiration of the men who watched her make them and they treated her with respect. She pursued
her studies in the same manner in the stables of the Veterinary School at Alfort and in the
Jardin des Plantes.

At other times she studied in the country the quiet grazing herds, and, though often mistaken
for a boy on account of the dress she wore, she inspired only admiration for her simplicity
and frankness of manner, while the graziers and horse-dealers respectfully regarded her and
wondered at her skill in picturing their favorite animals. Some very amusing stories might
be told of her comical embarrassments in her country rambles, when she was determined to preserve
her disguise and the pretty girls were equally determined to make love to her!

Aside from all this laborious study of living animals, she obtained portions of dead creatures
for dissection; also moulds, casts, and illustrated anatomical books; and, in short, she left
no means untried by which she could perfect herself in the specialty she had chosen. Her devotion
to study and to the practice of her art was untiring, and only the most engrossing interest
in it and an indomitable perseverance, supplemented and supported by a physically and morally
healthful organization, could have sustained the nervous strain of her life from the day when
she was first allowed to follow her vocation to the time when she placed herself in the front
rank of animal painters.

A most charming picture is drawn of the life of the Bonheur family in the years when Rosa was
making her progressive steps. They lived in an humble house in the Rue Rumfort, the father,
Auguste, Isidore, and Rosa all working in the same studio. She had many birds and a pet sheep.
As the apartment of the Bonheurs was on the sixth floor, this sheep lived on the leads, and
from time to time Isidore bore him on his shoulders down all the stairs to the neighboring
square, where the animal could browse on the real grass, and afterward be carried back by one
of the devoted brothers of his mistress. They were very poor, but they were equally happy.
At evening Rosa made small models or illustrations for books or albums, which the dealers readily
bought, and by this means she added to the family store for needs or pleasures.

In 1841, when Rosa was nineteen years old, she first experienced the pleasures, doubts, and
fears attendant upon a public exhibition of one's work. Two small pictures, called "Goats and
Sheep" and "Two Rabbits," were hung at the Salon and were praised by critics and connoisseurs.
She continued to send pictures to the Salon and to some exhibitions in other cities, and received
several bronze and silver medals.

In 1845 she sent twelve works to the Salon, accompanied by those of her father and her brother
Auguste, who was admitted that year for the first time. In 1848 Isidore was added to the list,
exhibiting a picture and a group in marble, both representing "A Combat between a Lioness and
an African Horseman." And, finally, the family contributions were completed when Juliette,
now Madame Peyrol, added her pictures, and the works of the five artists were seen in the same
Exhibition.

In 1849 Rosa Bonheur's "Cantal Oxen" was awarded the gold medal, and was followed by "Ploughing
in the Nivernais," so well known the world over by engravings and photographs. When the medal
was assigned her, Horace Vernet proclaimed her triumph to a brilliant assemblage, and also
presented to her a magnificent vase of Sèvres porcelain, in the name of the French Government.
This placed her in the first rank of living artists, and the triumph was of double value to
her on account of the happiness it afforded her father, to see this, his oldest child, of whose
future he had often despaired, taking so eminent a place in the artistic world.

This year of success was also a year of sorrow, for before its end the old Raymond had died.
He had been for some time the director of the Government School of Design for Girls, and, being
freed from pecuniary anxiety, he had worked with new courage and hope. After her father's death
Rosa Bonheur exhibited nothing for two years, but in 1853 she brought out her "Horse Fair,"
which added to her fame.

She was perfectly at home in the mountains, and spent much time in the huts of charcoal burners,
huntsmen, or woodcutters, contented with the food they could give her and happy in her study.
Thus she made her sketches for "Morning in the Highlands," "The Denizens of the Mountains,"
etc. She once lived six weeks with her party on the Spanish side of the Pyrenees, where they
saw no one save muleteers going and coming, with their long lines of loaded mules. Their only
food was frogs' legs, which they prepared themselves, and the black bread and curdled milk
which the country afforded. At evening the muleteers would amuse the strangers by dancing the
national dances, and then repose in picturesque groups just suited to artistic sketching. In
Scotland and in Switzerland, as well as in various portions of her own country, she had similar
experiences, and her "Hay-Making in Auvergne" proves that she was familiar with the more usual
phases of country life. At the Knowles sale in London, in 1865, her picture of "Spanish Muleteers
Crossing the Pyrenees," one of the results of the above sojourn in these mountains, sold for
two thousand guineas, about ten thousand dollars. I believe that, in spite of the large sums
of money that she received, her habitual generosity and indifference to wealth prevented her
amassing a large fortune, but her fame as an artist and her womanly virtues brought the rewards
which she valued above anything that wealth could bestow--such rewards as will endure through
centuries and surround the name of Rosa Bonheur with glory, rewards which she untiringly labored
to attain.

<b>BONSALL, ELIZABETH F.</b> First Toppan prize, and Mary Smith prize twice, at Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts. Member of Plastic Club, Philadelphia. Born at Philadelphia. Studied at
the above-named Academy and in Paris; also at the Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, under Eakins,
Courtois, Collin, and Howard Pyle.

Miss Bonsall is well known for her pictures of cats. She illustrated the "Fireside Sphinx,"
by Agnes Repplier. Her picture of "Hot Milk" is in the Pennsylvania Academy; her "Suspense,"
in a private gallery in New York.

An interesting chapter in Miss Winslow's book, "Concerning Cats," is called "Concerning Cat
Artists," in which she writes: "Elizabeth Bonsall is a young American artist who has exhibited
some good cat pictures, and whose work promises to make her famous some day if she does not
'weary in well-doing.'" Studied at above academy under Vonnoh, De Camp, William Chase, and
Cecilia Beaux.

This artist paints portraits, which are in private hands.

<b>BONTE, PAULA.</b> Born in Magdeburg, 1840, and from 1862 to 1864 was a pupil of Pape in
Berlin. She travelled and studied in Northern Italy and Switzerland, and from these regions,
as well as from Northern Germany, took her subjects. She has exhibited pictures at various
exhibitions, and among her best works should be mentioned: "The Beach at Clovelly in Devonshire,"
"From the Bernese Oberland," "The Riemenstalden Valley," etc.

<b>BOOTT, ELIZABETH.</b> Born in Cambridge. Miss Boott was one of those pupils of William M.
Hunt to whom he imparted a wonderful artistic enthusiasm, energy, and devotion. After studying
in Boston she studied in Paris under Duveneck--whom she afterward married--and under Couture.
Her subjects were genre, still-life, and flowers, and were well considered. Among her genre
pictures are "An Old Man Reading," an "Old Roman Peasant," and a "Girl with a Cat." When in
Italy she painted a number of portraits, which were successful. Miss Brewster, who lived in
Rome, was an excellent critic, and she wrote: "I must say a few words about a studio I have
lately visited--Miss Boott's. I saw there three very fine portraits, remarkable for strength
and character, as well as rich coloring: one of Mr. Boott, one of Bishop Say, and the third
of T. Adolphus Trollope, the well-known writer and brother of the novelist, Anthony Trollope.
All are good likenesses and are painted with vigor and skill, but the one of Mr. Trollope is
especially clever. Trollope's head and face, though a good study, are not easy to paint, but
Miss Boott has succeeded to perfection. His head and beard are very fine. The face in nature,
but for the melancholy, kindly look about the eyes and mouth, would be stern; Miss Boott has
caught this expression and yet retained all the firm character of the countenance. It is remarkable
that an artist who paints male heads with such a vigorous character should also give to flowers
softness, transparency, and grace. Nothing can be more lovely than Miss Boott's flower studies.
She has some delicious poppies among wheat, lilies, thistles. She gets a transparency into
these works that is not facile in oil. A bunch of roses in a vase was as tender and round and
soft-colored as in nature. Among all the many studios of Rome I do not know a more attractive
one than Miss Boott's."

<b>BORTOLAN, ROSA.</b> Born at Treviso. She was placed in the Academy at Venice by her family,
where she had the benefit of such masters as Grigoletti, Lipparini, Schiavoni, and Zandomeneghi.
She early showed much originality, and after making thorough preliminary studies she began
to follow her own ideas. She was of a mystical and contemplative turn of mind, and a great
proportion of her work has been of a religious nature. Her pictures began to attract attention
about 1847, and she had many commissions for altar-pieces and similar work. The church of Valdobbiadene,
at Venice, contains "San Venanziano Fortunatus, Bishop." "Saint Louis" was painted as a commission
of Brandolin da Pieve; "Comte Justinian Replying to Bonaparte in Treviso" was a subscription
picture presented to Signor Zoccoletto. Portraits of the Countess Canossa-Portalupi and her
son, of Luigia Codemo, and of Luigi Giacomelli are thought to possess great merit; while those
of Dr. Pasquali (in the Picture Gallery at Treviso) and Michelangelo Codemo have been judged
superior to those of Rosalba Carriera and Angelica Kauffmann. Her sacred pictures, strong and
good in color, are full of a mystical and spiritual beauty. Her drawing is admirable and her
treatment of detail highly finished.

<b>BORZINO, LEOPOLDINA.</b> Milanese water-color painter. Has shown excellent genre pictures
at various exhibitions. "The Holiday" and the "Return from Mass" were both exhibited and sold
at Rome in 1883; "The Way to Calvary" was seen at Venice in 1887. "The Rosary," "Anguish,"
and "Going to the Fountain" are all distinguished by good color as well as by grace and originality
of composition.

<b>BOUGUEREAU, MME. ELIZABETH JANE.</b> See Gardner.

<b>BOULANGER, MME. MARIE ELIZABETH.</b> Medals at the Paris Salon in 1836 and 1839. Born in
Paris, 1810. Her family name was Blavot, and after the death of M. Boulanger she married M.
Cavé, director of the Academy of the Beaux-Arts. Her picture of "The Virgin in Tears" is in
the Museum of Rouen; and "The Children's Tournament," a triptych, was purchased by the Government.

<b>BOURRILLON-TOURNAY, MME. JEANNE.</b> Medal of the second class at Exposition Universelle
at Lyons; silver medal at Versailles; honorable mention at Paris Salon, 1896; the two prizes
of the Union des Femmes Peintres et Sculpteurs--les Palmes Académique, 1895; the Rosette of
an Officer of the Public Instruction in 1902. Member of the Société des Artistes Français,
of the Union des Femmes Peintres et Sculpteurs, and of the Association de Baron Taylor. Born
at Paris, 1870. Pupil of Ferdinand Humbert and G. C. Saintpierre.

This artist paints portraits, and among them are those of a "Young Girl," which belongs to
the general Council of the Seine; one of the Senator Théophile Roussel, of the Institute, and
a portrait of an "Aged Lady," both purchased by the Government; one of M. Auguste Boyer, councillor
of the Court of Cassation, and many others.

At the Salon des Artistes Français, 1902, Mme. Bourrillon-Tournay exhibited two portraits,
one being that of her mother; in 1903, that of M. Boyer and one of Mme. B.

<b>BOWEN, LOTA.</b> Member of Society of Women Artists, London, the Tempera Society, and the
"91" Art Club. Born at Armley, Yorkshire. Studied in Ludovici's studio, London; later in Rome
under Santoro, and in the night classes of the Circolo Artistico.

Her pictures are principally landscapes, and are chiefly in private collections in England.
Among the most important are "On the Venetian Lagoons," "Old Stone Pines, Lido, Venice," "Evening
on Lake Lugano," "Evening Glow on the Dolomites," "The Old Bird Fancier," "Moonrise on Crowborough,
Sussex." All these have been exhibited at the Academy.

"Miss Lota Bowen constantly receives most favorable notices of her works in magazines and journals.
She is devotedly fond of her art, and has sought subjects for her brush in many European byways,
as well as in North Africa, Turkey, and Montenegro. She paints portraits and figure subjects;
has a broad, swinging brush and great love of 'tone.' Miss Bowen has recently built a studio,
in Kensington, after her own design. She is in London from Christmas time to August, when she
makes an annual journey for sketching."

<b>BOZZINO, CANDIDA LUIGIA.</b> Silver medal at Piacenza. Born at Piacenza, 1853. Pupil of
her father. Her portrait of Alessandro Manzoni was her prize picture. The "Madonna of the Sacred
Heart of Jesus" was painted on a commission from the Bishop of Piacenza, who presented it to
Pope Pius IX.; after being exhibited at the Vatican, it was sent to the Bishop of Jesi, for
the church of Castelplanio. Other celebrated works of hers are a "Holy Family," the "Madonna
of Lourdes," and several copies of the "Viâ Crucis," by Viganoni.

In 1881 this artist entered the Ursuline Convent at Piacenza, where she continues to paint
religious pictures.

<b>BRACKEN, JULIA M.</b> First prize for sculpture, Chicago, 1898; appointed on staff of sculptors
for the St. Louis Exposition. Member of Arts Club, Western Society of Artists, Municipal Art
League, and Krayle Workshop, Chicago. Born at Apple River, Ill., 1871. Pupil of Chicago Art
Institute. Acted as assistant to Lorado Taft, 1887-92. Was much occupied with the decorations
for the Columbian Exposition, and executed on an independent commission the statue of "Illinois
Welcoming the Nations." There are to be five portrait statues placed in front of the Educational
Building at St. Louis, each to be executed by a well-known artist. One of these is to be the
work of Miss Bracken, who is the only woman among them. Miss Bracken has modelled an heroic
portrait statue of President Monroe; beside the figure is a globe, on which he points out the
junction of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BRACQUEMOND, MME. MARIE.</b> Pupil of Ingres. A portrait painter, also painter of genre
subjects. At the Salon of 1875 she exhibited "The Reading"; in 1874 "Marguerite." She has been
much occupied in the decoration of the Haviland faience, a branch of these works, at Auteuil,
being at one time in charge of her husband, Félix Bracquemond. In 1872 M. Bracquemond was esteemed
the first ceramic artist in France. An eminent French critic said of M. and Mme. Bracquemond:
"You cannot praise too highly these two artists, who are as agreeable and as clever as they
are talented and esteemed."

Mme. Bracquemond had the faculty of employing the faience colors so well that she produced
a clearness and richness not attained by other artists. The progress made in the Haviland faience
in the seventies was very largely due to Mme. Bracquemond, whose pieces were almost always
sold from the atelier before being fired, so great was her success.

<b>BRANDEIS, ANTOINETTA.</b> Many prizes at the Academy of Venice. Born of Bohemian parents
in Miscova, Galitza, 1849. Pupil of Iavurek, of Prague, in the beginning of her studies, but
her father dying and her mother marrying again, she was taken to Venice, where she studied
in the Academy several years under Grigoletti, Moja, Bresolin, Nani, and Molmenti. Although
all her artistic training was received in Italy and she made her first successes there, most
of her works have been exhibited in London, under the impression that she was better understood
in England.

Annoyed by the commendation of her pictures "as the work of a woman," she signed a number of
her canvases Antonio Brandeis. Although she painted religious subjects for churches, her special
predilection is for views of Venice, preferably those in which the gondola appears. She has
studied these in their every detail. "Il canale Traghetto de' San Geremia" is in the Museum
Rivoltella at Trieste. This and "Il canale dell' Abbazia della Misericordia" have been much
commended by foreign critics, especially the English and Austrians. Other Venetian pictures
are "La Chiese della Salute," "Il canale de' Canalregio," and "La Pescaria."

<b>BRESLAU, LOUISA CATHERINE.</b> Gold medal at Paris Exposition, 1889; gold medal at Paris
Exposition, 1900. Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, 1901. Member of the Société Nationale des
Beaux-Arts. A Swiss artist, who made her studies at the Julian Academy under Robert-Fleury.

She has painted many portraits. Her picture "Under the Apple-Tree" is in the Museum at Lausanne;
the "Little Girls" or "The Sisters" and the "Child Dreamer"--exhibited at Salon, 1902--are
in the Gallery of the Luxembourg; the "Gamins," in the Museum at Carpentras; the "Tea Party,"
at the Ministry of the Interior, Paris.

At the Salon of 1902 Mlle. Breslau exhibited six pictures, among which were landscapes, two
representing September and October at Saint-Cloud; two of fruit and flowers; all of which were
admired, while the "Dreamer" was honored with a place in the Luxembourg. In the same Salon
she exhibited six pictures in pastel: four portraits, and heads of a gamin and of a little
girl. The portrait of Margot is an ideal picture of a happy child, seated at a table, resting
her head on her left hand while with the right she turns the leaves of a book. A toy chicken
and a doll are on the table beside her. In the Salon of 1903 she exhibited five pictures of
flowers and another called the "Child with Long Hair."

I was first interested in this artist by the frequent references to her and her work in the
journal of Marie Bashkirtseff. They were fellow-pupils in the Julian Academy. Soon after she
began her studies there Marie Bashkirtseff writes: "Breslau has been working at the studio
two years, and she is twenty; I am seventeen, but Breslau had taken lessons for a long time
before coming here.... How well that Breslau draws!"

"That miserable Breslau has composed a picture, 'Monday Morning, or the Choice of a Model.'
Every one belonging to the studio is in it--Julian standing between Amalie and me. It is correctly
done, the perspective is good, the likenesses--everything. When one can do a thing like that,
one cannot fail to become a great artist. You have guessed it, have you not? I am jealous.
That is well, for it will serve as a stimulus to me."

"I am jealous of Breslau. She does not draw at all like a woman."

"I am terrified when I think of the future that awaits Breslau; it fills me with wonder and
sadness. In her compositions there is nothing womanish, commonplace, or disproportioned. She
will attract attention at the Salon, for, in addition to her treatment of it, the subject itself
will not be a common one."

The above prophecy has been generously fulfilled. Mlle. Breslau is indeed a poet in her ability
to picture youth and its sweet intimacies, and she does this so easily. With a touch she reveals
the grace of one and the affectations of another subject of her brush, and skilfully renders
the varying emotions in the faces of her pictures. Pleasure and suffering, the fleeting thought
of the child, the agitation of the young girl are all depicted with rare truthfulness.

<b>BREWSTER, ADA AUGUSTA.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BRICKDALE, MISS ELEANOR FORTESCUE.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BRICCI OR BRIZIO, PLAUTILLA.</b> Very little is known of this Roman artist of the seventeenth
century, but that little marks her as an unusually gifted woman, since she was a practical
architect and a painter of pictures. She was associated with her brother in some architectural
works in and near Rome, and was the only woman of her time in this profession.

She is believed to have erected a small palace near the Porta San Pancrazio, unaided by her
brother, and is credited with having designed in the Church of San Luigi de' Francesi the third
chapel on the left aisle, dedicated to St. Louis, and with having also painted the altar-piece
in this chapel.

<b>BRIDGES, FIDELIA.</b> Associate of the National Academy of Design in 1878, when but three
other women were thus honored. Born in Salem, Massachusetts. Studied with W. T. Richards in
Philadelphia, and later in Europe during one year. She exhibited her pictures from 1869 in
Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. Her subjects were landscapes and flowers. In 1871 she first
painted in water-colors, which suited many of her pictures better than oils. She was elected
a member of the Water-Color Society in 1875. To the Philadelphia Exposition, 1876, she sent
a "Kingfisher and Catkins," a "Flock of Snow Birds," and the "Corner of a Rye-Field." Of the
last a writer in the Art Journal said: "Miss Bridges' 'Edge of a Rye-Field,' with a foreground
of roses and weeds, is a close study, and shows that she is as happy in the handling of oil
colors as in those mixed with water."

Another critic wrote: "Her works are like little lyric poems, and she dwells with loving touches
on each of her buds, 'like blossoms atilt' among the leaves."

Her pictures are in private collections, and are much valued by their owners.

<b>BROOKS, MARIA.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BROWNSCOMBE, JENNIE.</b> Pupil of the National Academy and the Art Students' League, New
York, and of Henry Mosler in Paris.

Paints genre subjects, among which are: "Love's Young Dream," "Colonial Minuet," "Sir Roger
de Coverly at Carvel Hall," "Battle of Roses," etc.

The works of this artist have been reproduced in engravings and etchings, and are well known
in black and white. Her water-colors, too, have been published in photogravure.

Miss Brownscombe exhibits at many American exhibitions and has had her work accepted at the
Royal Academy, London.

<b>BROWNE, MATILDA.</b> Honorable mention at Chicago, 1893; Dodge prize at National Academy
of Design, 1899; Hallgarten prize, 1901. Born in Newark, New Jersey. Pupil of Miss Kate Greatorex;
of Carleton Wiggins, New York; of the Julian Academy, Paris; of H. S. Birbing in Holland, and
of Jules Dupré on the coast of France. When a child this artist lived very near Thomas Moran
and was allowed to spend much time in his studio, where she learned the use of colors.

She exhibited her first picture at the National Academy of Design when twelve years old, and
has been a constant contributor to its exhibitions since that time; also to the exhibitions
of the American Water-Color Society.

Her earliest pictures were of flowers, and during several years she had no teacher. At length
she decided to study battle painting, and, after a summer under Carleton Wiggins, she went
abroad, in 1890, and remained two years, painting in the schools in winter and out of doors
in summer. Miss Browne exhibited at the Salon des Beaux-Arts in 1890, and many of her works
have been seen in exhibits in this country. The Dodge prize was awarded to a picture called
"The Last Load," and the Hallgarten prize to "Repose," a moonlight scene with cattle. Her pictures
are in private collections.

<b>BROWN, MRS. AGNES--MRS. JOHN APPLETON BROWN.</b> Born in Newburyport. This artist paints
in oils. Her subjects are landscapes, flowers, and still life. She has also painted cats successfully.

I have a winter landscape by Mrs. Brown which is unusually attractive and is often admired.
She sends her works to the exhibitions of the Boston Art Club and to some exhibitions in New York.

<b>BROWNE, MME. HENRIETTE.</b> Born at Paris; 1829-1901. Pupil of Chaplin. The family name
of this artist was Bouteiller, and she married M. Jules de Saux, but as an artist used the
name of an ancestress. Her pictures of genre subjects very early attracted attention, especially
in 1855, when she sent to the Salon "A Brother of the Christian School," "School for the Poor
at Aix," "Mutual Instruction," and "Rabbits." Her works were popular and brought good prices.
In 1868 "The Sisters of Charity" sold for £1,320.

In 1878 she exhibited "A Grandmother" and "Convalescence." Her Oriental scenes were much admired.
Among these were "A Court in Damascus," "Nubian Dancing Girls," and a "Harem in Constantinople."
Mme. Browne was also skilful as an engraver.

T. Chasrel wrote in L'Art: "Her touch without over-minuteness has the delicacy and security
of a fine work of the needle. The accent is just without that seeking for virile energy which
too often spoils the most charming qualities. The sentiment is discreet without losing its
intensity in order to attract public notice. The painting of Mme. Henriette Browne is at an
equal distance from grandeur and insipidity, from power and affectation, and gathers from the
just balance of her nature some effects of taste and charm of which a parvenu in art would
be incapable."

The late Rev. Charles Kingsley wrote of the picture of the "Sisters of Charity," of the sale
of which I have spoken, as follows: "The picture which is the best modern instance of this
happy hitting of this golden mean, whereby beauty and homely fact are perfectly combined, is
in my eyes Henrietta Browne's picture of the 'Sick Child and the Sisters of Charity.' I know
not how better to show that it is easy to be at once beautiful and true, if one only knows
how, than by describing that picture. Criticise it, I dare not; for I believe that it will
surely be ranked hereafter among the very highest works of modern art. If I find no fault in
it, it is because I have none to find; because the first sight of the picture produced in me
instantaneous content and confidence. There was nothing left to wish for, nothing to argue
about. The thing was what it ought to be, and neither more nor less, and I could look on it,
not as a critic, but as a learner only."

This is praise indeed from an Englishman writing of a Frenchwoman's picture--an Englishman
with no temptation to say what he did not think; and we may accept his words as the exact expression
of the effect the picture made on him.

<b>BRUNE, MME. AIMÉE PAGÈS.</b> Medal of second class at Salon of 1831; first class in 1841.
Born in Paris. 1803-66. Pupil of Charles Meynier. Painted historical and genre subjects. In
1831 she exhibited "Undine," the "Elopement," "Sleep," and "Awakening." In 1841 a picture of
"Moses." She painted several Bible scenes, among which were the "Daughter of Jairus" and "Jephthah's
Daughter."

<b>BUECHMANN, FRAU HELENE.</b> Her pictures have been seen at some annual exhibitions in Germany,
but she is best known by her portraits of celebrated persons. Born in Berlin, 1849. Pupil of
Steffeck and Gussow. Among her portraits are those of Princess Carolath-Beuthen, Countess Brühl,
Prince and Princess Biron von Kurland, and the youngest son of Prince Radziwill. She resides
in Brussels.

<b>BUTLER, MILDRED A.</b> Associate of the Royal Society of Painters in Water-Colors and of
the Society of Lady Artists. Pupil of Naftel, Calderon, and Garstin. Has exhibited at the Royal
Academy and New Gallery. Her picture called the "Morning Bath," exhibited at the Academy in
1896, was purchased under the Chantry Bequest and is in the Tate Gallery. It is a water-color,
valued at £50.

Miss Butler exhibited "A Corner of the Bargello, Florence," at the London Academy in 1903.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>BUTLER, LADY ELIZABETH.</b> Born in Lausanne about 1844. Elizabeth Southerden Thompson.
As a child this artist was fond of drawing soldiers and horses. She studied at the South Kensington
School, at Florence under Bellucci, and in Rome. She worked as an amateur some years, first
exhibiting at the Academy in 1873 her picture called "Missing," which was praised; but the
"Roll-Call," of the following year, placed her in the front rank of the Academy exhibitors.
It was purchased by the Queen and hung in Windsor Castle. She next exhibited the "Twenty-Eighth
Regiment at Quatre Bras," the "Return from Inkerman," purchased by the Fine Art Society for
£3,000. This was followed by kindred subjects.

In 1890 Lady Butler exhibited "Evicted," in 1891 the "Camel Corps," in 1892 "Halt in a Forced
March," in 1895 the "Dawn of Waterloo," in 1896 "Steady the Drums and Fifes," in 1902 "Tent
Pegging in India," in 1903 "Within Sound of the Guns."

In 1869 she painted a religious picture called the "Magnificat." In water-colors she has painted
"Sketches in Tuscany" and several pictures of soldiers, among which are "Scot's Grays Advancing"
and "Cavalry at a Gallop."

Lady Butler has recently appeared as an author, publishing "Letters from the Holy Land," illustrated
by sixteen most attractive drawings in colors. The Spectator says: "Lady Butler's letters and
diary, the outcome of a few weeks' journeyings in Palestine, express simply and forcibly the
impressions made on a devout and cultivated mind by the scenes of the Holy Land."

The Art Journal, 1877, says: "'Inkerman' is simply a marvellous production when considered
as the work of a young woman who was never on the field of battle.... No matter how many figures
she brings into the scene, or how few, you may notice character in each figure, each is a superb
study."

Her recent picture, "Within Sound of the Guns," shows a company of mounted soldiers on the
confines of a river in South Africa.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>CAMERON, KATHERINE.</b> Member of the Royal Scottish Society of Painters in Water-Colors;
Modern Sketch Club, London; Ladies' Art Club, Glasgow. Born in Glasgow. Studied at Glasgow
School of Art under Professor Newbery, and at the Colarossi Academy, Paris, under Raphael Collin
and Gustave Courtois.

Her pictures are of genre subjects principally, and are in private collections. "'The Sea Urchin,'"
Miss Cameron writes, "is in one of the public collections of Germany. I cannot remember which."
She also says: "Except for my diploma R. S. W. and having my drawings sometimes in places of
honor, usually on the line, and often reproduced in magazines, I have no other honors. I have
no medals."

In the Magazine of Art, June, 1903, her picture of a "Bull Fight in Madrid" is reproduced.
It is full of action and true to the life of these horrors as I have seen them in Madrid. Doubtless
the color is brilliant, as the costumes of the toreadors are always so, and there are two in
this picture. This work was displayed at the exhibition of the Royal Scottish Academy, June,
1903--of which a writer says: "A feeling for color has always been predominant in the Scottish
school, and it is here conspicuously displayed, together with a method of handling, be it in
the domain of figure or landscape, which is personal to the artist and not a mere academic
tradition."

In the Studio of May, 1903, J. L. C., who writes of the same exhibition, calls this picture
"admirable in both action and color."

<b>CARL, KATE A.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1890; Chevalier of the Legion of Honor,
1896; honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1900. Born in New Orleans. Pupil of Julian Academy
and of Courtois in Paris.

This artist's name has been made prominent by the fact of her being selected to paint a portrait
of the Empress of China. Miss Carl has frequently exhibited at the Salon. In 1902 she sent
portraits in both oil and water-colors. One of these works, called "Angelina," impresses one
as a faithful portrait of a model. She is seated and gracefully posed--the face is in a full
front view, the figure turned a little to one side and nude to the waist, the hands are folded
on the lap and hold a flower, a gauze-like drapery falls about the left shoulder and the arms,
but does not conceal them; the background is a brocade or tapestry curtain.

I have seen a reproduction only, and cannot speak of the color. The whole effect of the picture
is attractive. For the purpose of painting the portrait of the Chinese Empress, Miss Carl was
assigned an apartment in the palace. It is said that the picture was to be finished in December,
1903, and will probably be seen at the St. Louis Exhibition.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>CARLISLE, MISTRESS ANNE.</b> Died in 1680. Was a favorite artist of King Charles I. It is
said that on one occasion the King bought a quantity of ultramarine, for which he paid £500,
and divided it between Vandyck and Mistress Carlisle. Her copies after the Italian masters
were of great excellence.

She painted in oils as well as in water-colors. One of her pictures represents her as teaching
a lady to use the brush. When we remember that Charles, who was so constantly in contact with
Vandyck, could praise Mistress Carlisle, we must believe her to have been a good painter.

Mistress Anne has sometimes been confounded with the Countess of Carlisle, who was distinguished
as an engraver of the works of Salvator Rosa, etc.

<b>CARPENTER, MARGARET SARAH.</b> The largest gold medal and other honors from the Society
of Arts, London. Born at Salisbury, England. 1793-1872. Pupil of a local artist in Salisbury
when quite young. Lord Radnor's attention was called to her talent, and he permitted her to
copy in the gallery of Longford Castle, and advised her sending her pictures to London, and
later to go there herself. She made an immediate success as a portrait painter, and from 1814
during fifty-two years her pictures were annually exhibited at the Academy with a few rare
exceptions.

Her family name was Geddis; her husband was Keeper of the Prints and Drawings in the British
Museum more than twenty years, and after his death his wife received a pension of £100 a year
in recognition of his services.

Her portraits were considered excellent as likenesses; her touch was firm, her color brilliant,
and her works in oils and water-colors as well as her miniatures were much esteemed. Many of
them were engraved. Her portrait of the sculptor Gibson is in the National Portrait Gallery,
London. A life-size portrait of Anthony Stewart, miniature painter, called "Devotion," and
the "Sisters," portraits of Mrs. Carpenter's daughters, with a picture of "Ockham Church,"
are at South Kensington.

She painted a great number of portraits of titled ladies which are in the collections of their
families. Among the more remarkable were those of Lady Eastnor, 1825; Lady King, daughter of
Lord Byron, 1835; Countess Ribblesdale, etc.

Her portraits of Fraser Tytler, John Girkin, and Bonington are in the National Portrait Gallery,
London. In the South Kensington Gallery are her pictures of "Devotion--St. Francis," which
is a life-size study of Anthony Stewart, the miniature painter; "The Sisters," "Ockham Church,"
and "An Old Woman Spinning."

<b>CARPENTIER, MLLE. MADELEINE.</b> Honorable mention, 1890; third-class medal, 1896. Born
in Paris, 1865. Pupil of Bonnefoy and of Jules Lefebvre at the Julian Academy. Since 1885 this
artist has exhibited many portraits as well as flower and fruit pieces, these last in water-colors.
In 1896 her pictures were the "Communicants" and the "Candles," a pastel, purchased by the
city of Paris; "Among Friends" is in the Museum of Bordeaux.

At the Salon of the Artistes Français, 1902, Mlle. Carpentier exhibited a picture called "Reflection,"
and in 1903 a portrait of Mme. L. T. and the "Little Goose-Herders."

<b>CARRIERA, ROSALBA</b>, better known as Rosalba. Born in Venice 1675-1757--and had an eventful
life. Her artistic talent was first manifested in lace-weaving, which as a child she preferred
before any games or amusements. She studied painting under several masters, technique under
Antonio Balestra, pastel-painting with Antonio Nazari and Diamantini, and miniature painting,
in which she was especially distinguished, was taught her by her brother-in-law, Antonio Pellegrini,
whom she later accompanied to Paris and London and assisted in the decorative works he executed
there.

Rosalba's fame in Venice was such that she was invited to the courts of France and Austria,
where she painted many portraits. She was honored by election to the Academies of Rome, Bologna,
and Paris.

This artist especially excelled in portraits of pretty women, while her portraits of men were
well considered. Among the most important were those of the Emperor Charles, the kings of France
and Denmark, and many other distinguished persons, both men and women.

The Grand Duke of Tuscany asked for her own portrait for his gallery. She represented herself
with one of her sisters. Her face is noble and most expressive, but, like many of her pictures,
while the head is spirited and characteristic, the rest of the figure and the accessories are
weak. A second portrait of herself--in crayons--is in the Dresden Gallery, and is very attractive.

While in England Rosalba painted many portraits in crayon and pastel, in which art she was
not surpassed by any artist of her day.

Her diary of two years in Paris was published in Venice. It is curious and interesting, as
it sets forth the customs of society, and especially those of artists of the period.

Returning to Venice, Rosalba suffered great depression and was haunted by a foreboding of calamity.
She lived very quietly. In his "Storia della Pittura Veneziana," Zanetti writes of her at this
time: "Much of interest may be written of this celebrated and highly gifted woman, whose spirit,
in the midst of her triumphs and the brightest visions of happiness, was weighed down by the
anticipation of a heavy calamity. On one occasion she painted a portrait of herself, the brow
wreathed with leaves which symbolized death. She explained this as an image of the sadness
in which her life would end."

Alas, this was but too prophetic! Before she was fifty years old she lost her sight, and gradually
the light of reason also, and her darkness was complete.

An Italian writer tells the following story: "Nature had endowed Rosalba with lofty aspirations
and a passionate soul; her heart yearned for the admiration which her lack of personal attraction
forbade her receiving. She fully realized her plainness before the Emperor Charles XI. rudely
brought it home to her. When presented to him by the artist Bertoli, the Emperor exclaimed:
'She may be clever, Bertoli mio, this painter of thine, but she is remarkably ugly.' From which
it would appear that Charles had not believed his mirror, since his ugliness far exceeded that
of Rosalba! Her dark eyes, fine brow, good expression, and graceful pose of the head, as shown
in her portrait, impress one more favorably than would be anticipated from this story."

Many of Rosalba's works have been reproduced by engravings; a collection of one hundred and
fifty-seven of these are in the Dresden Gallery, together with several of her pictures.

<b>CASSATT, MARY.</b> Born in Pittsburg. Studied in Pennsylvania schools, and under Soyer and
Bellay in Paris. She has lived and travelled much in Europe, and her pictures, which are of
genre subjects, include scenes in France, Italy, Spain, and Holland.

Among her principal works are "La tasse de thé," "Le lever du bébé," "Reading," "Mère et Enfant,"
and "Caresse Maternelle."

Miss Cassatt has exhibited at the Paris Salon, the National Academy, New York, and various
other exhibitions, but her works are rarely if ever exhibited in recent days. It is some years
since William Walton wrote of her: "But in general she seems to have attained that desirable
condition, coveted by artists, of being able to dispense with the annual exhibitions."

Miss Cassatt executed a large, decorative picture for the north tympanum of the Woman's Building
at the Columbian Exhibition.

A writer in the Century Magazine, March, 1899, says: "Of the colony of American artists, who
for a decade or two past have made Paris their home, few have been more interesting and none
more serious than Miss Cassatt.... Miss Cassatt has found her true bent in her recent pictures
of children and in the delineation of happy maternity. These she has portrayed with delicacy,
refinement, and sentiment. Her technique appeals equally to the layman and the artist, and
her color has all the tenderness and charm that accompanies so engaging a motif."

In November, 1903, Miss Cassatt held an exhibition of her works in New York. At the winter
exhibition of the Philadelphia Academy, 1904, she exhibited a group, a mother and children,
one child quite nude. Arthur Hoeber described it as "securing great charm of manner, of color,
and of grace."

<b>CATTANEO, MARIA.</b> Bronze medal at the National Exposition, Parma, 1870; silver medal
at Florence, 1871; silver medal at the centenary of Ariosto at Ferrara. Made an honorary member
of the Brera Academy, Milan, 1874, an honor rarely conferred on a woman; elected to the Academy
of Urbino, 1875. Born in Milan. Pupil of her father and of Angelo Rossi.

She excels in producing harmony between all parts of her works. She has an exquisite sense
of color and a rare technique. Good examples of her work are "The Flowers of Cleopatra," "The
Return from the Country," "An Excursion by Gondola." She married the artist, Pietro Michis.
Her picture of the "Fish Market in Venice" attracted much attention when it appeared in 1887;
it was a most accurate study from life.

<b>CHARPENTIER, CONSTANCE MARIE.</b> Pupil of David. Her best known works were "Ulysses Finding
Young Astyanax at Hector's Grave" and "Alexander Weeping at the Death of the Wife of Darius."
These were extraordinary as the work of a woman. Their size, with the figures as large as life,
made them appear to be ambitious, as they were certainly unusual. Her style was praised by
the admirers of David, to whose teaching she did credit. The disposition of her figures was
good, the details of her costumes and accessories were admirably correct, but her color was
hard and she was generally thought to be wanting in originality and too close a follower of
her master.

<b>CHARRETIE, ANNA MARIA.</b> 1819-75. Her first exhibitions at the Royal Academy, London,
were miniatures and flower pieces. Later she painted portraits and figure subjects, as well
as flowers. In 1872 "Lady Betty Germain" was greatly admired for the grace of the figure and
the exquisite finish of the details. In 1873 she exhibited "Lady Betty's Maid" and "Lady Betty
Shopping." "Lady Teazle Behind the Screen" was dated 1871, and "Mistress of Herself tho' China
Fall" was painted and exhibited in the last year of her life.

<b>CHASE, ADELAIDE COLE.</b> Member of Art Students' Association. Born in Boston. Daughter
of J. Foxcroft Cole. Studied at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, under Tarbell, and also
under Jean Paul Laurens and Carolus Duran in Paris; and with Vinton in Boston.

Mrs. Chase has painted portraits entirely, most of which are in or near Boston; her artistic
reputation among painters of her own specialty is excellent, and her portraits are interesting
aside from the persons represented, when considered purely as works of art.

A portrait called a "Woman with a Muff," exhibited recently at the exhibition of the Society
of American Artists, in New York, was much admired. Born at Charleville, Ardennes, in 1878.
Pupil of Gabriel Thurner, Benjamin-Constant, Jean Paul Laurens, and Victor Marec. Her principal
works are "Marée"--Fish--1899, purchased for the lottery of the International Exposition at
Lille; "Breton Interior," purchased by the Society of the Friends of the Arts, at Nantes; "Mother
Closmadenc Dressing Fish," in the Museum of Brest; "Interior of a Kitchen at Mont," purchased
by the Government; "Portrait of my Grandmother," which obtained honorable mention; "At the
Corner of the Fire," "A Little Girl in the Open Air," medal of third class.

The works of Mlle. Chauchet have been much praised. The Petit Moniteur, June, 1899, says: "Mlle.
Chauchet, a very young girl, in her picture of a 'Breton Interior' shows a vigor and decision
very rare in a woman." Of the "Marée," the Dépêche de Brest says: "On a sombre background,
in artistic disorder, thrown pell-mell on the ground, are baskets and a shining copper kettle,
with a mass of fish of all sorts, of varied forms, and changing colors. All well painted. Such
is the picture by Mlle. Chauchet."

In the Courrier de l'Est we read: "Mlle. Chauchet, taking her grandmother for her model, has
painted one of the best portraits of the Salon. The hands, deformed by disease and age, are
especially effective; the delicate tone of the hair in contrast with the lace of the cap makes
an attractive variation in white."

In the Union Républicaine de la Marne, H. Bernard writes: "'Le retour des champs' is a picture
of the plain of Berry at evening. We see the back of a peasant, nude above the blue linen pantaloons,
with the feet in wooden sabots. He is holding his tired, heavy cow by the tether. The setting
sun lights up his powerful bronzed back, his prominent shoulders, and the hindquarters of the
cow. It is all unusually strong; the drawing is firm and very bold in the foreshortening of
the animal. The effect of the whole is a little sad; the sobriety of the execution emphasizes
this effect, and, above all, there is in it no suggestion of the feminine. I have already noticed
this quality of almost brutal sincerity, of picturesque realism, in the works of Mlle. Chauchet
who successfully follows her methods."

Chaussée, Mlle. Cécile de.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>CHÉRON, ELIZABETH SOPHIE.</b> Born in Paris in 1648. Her father was an artist, and under
his instruction Elizabeth attained such perfection in miniature and enamel painting that her
works were praised by the most distinguished artists. In 1674 Charles le Brun proposed her
name and she was elected to the Academy.

Her exquisite taste in the arrangement of her subjects, the grace of her draperies, and, above
all, the refinement and spirituality of her pictures, were the characteristics on which her
fame was based.

Her life outside her art was interesting. Her father was a rigid Calvinist, and endeavored
to influence his daughter to adopt his religious belief; but her mother, who was a fervent
Roman Catholic, persuaded Elizabeth to pass a year in a convent, during which time she ardently
embraced the faith of her mother. She was an affectionate daughter to both her parents and
devoted her earnings to her brother Louis, who made his studies in Italy.

In her youth Elizabeth Chéron seemed insensible to the attractions of the brilliant men in
her social circle, and was indifferent to the offers of marriage which she received; but when
sixty years old, to the surprise of her friends, she married Monsieur Le Hay, a gentleman of
her own age. One of her biographers, leaving nothing to the imagination, assures us that "substantial
esteem and respect were the foundations of their matrimonial happiness, rather than any pretence
of romantic sentiment."

Mlle. Chéron's narrative verse was much admired and her spiritual poetry was thought to resemble
that of J. B. Rousseau. In 1699 she was elected to the Accademia dei Ricovrati of Padua, where
she was known as Erato. The honors bestowed on her did not lessen the modesty of her bearing.
She was simple in dress, courteous in her intercourse with her inferiors, and to the needy
a helpful friend.

She died when sixty-three and was buried in the church of St. Sulpice. I translate the lines
written by the Abbé Bosquillon and placed beneath her portrait: "The unusual possession of
two exquisite talents will render Chéron an ornament to France for all time. Nothing save the
grace of her brush could equal the excellencies of her pen."

Pictures by this artist are seen in various collections in France, but the larger number of
her works were portraits which are in the families of her subjects.

<b>CHERRY, EMMA RICHARDSON.</b> Gold medal from Western Art Association in 1891. Member of
above association and of the Denver Art Club. Born at Aurora, Illinois, 1859. Pupil of Julian
and Delécluse Academies in Paris, also of Merson, and of the Art Students' League in New York.

Mrs. Cherry is a portrait painter, and in 1903 was much occupied in this art in Chicago and
vicinity. Among her sitters were Mr. Orrington Lunt, the donor of the Library of the Northwestern
University, and Bishop Foster, a former president of the same university; these are to be placed
in the library. A portrait by Mrs. Cherry of a former president of the American Society of
Civil Engineers, Mr. O. Chanute, is to be placed in the club rooms of the society in New York.
It has been done at the request of the society.

An exhibition of ten portraits by this artist was held in Chicago in 1903, and was favorably
noticed. Mrs. Cherry resides in Houston, Texas.

<b>CLEMENT, ETHEL.</b> This artist has received several awards from California State fair exhibits,
and her pastel portrait of her mother was hung on the line at the Salon of 1898. Member of
San Francisco Art Association and of the Sketch Club of that city. Born in San Francisco in
1874. Her studies began in her native city with drawing from the antique and from life under
Fred Yates. At the Cowles Art School, Boston, and the Art Students' League, New York, she spent
three winters, and at the Julian Academy, Paris, three other winters, drawing from life and
painting in oils under the teaching of Jules Lefebvre and Robert-Fleury, supplementing these
studies by that of landscape in oils under George Laugée in Picardie.

Her portraits, figure subjects, and landscapes are numerous, and are principally in private
collections, a large proportion being in San Francisco. Her recent work has been landscape
painting in New England. In 1903 she exhibited a number of pictures in Boston which attracted
favorable attention.

<b>COHEN, KATHERINE M.</b> Honorary member of the American Art Association, Paris, and of the
New Century Club, Philadelphia. Born in Philadelphia, 1859. Pupil of School of Design, Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts, and of St. Gaudens at Art Students' League; also six years in Paris schools.

This artist executed a portrait of General Beaver for the Smith Memorial in Fairmount Park.
She has made many portraits in busts and bas-reliefs, as well as imaginary subjects and decorative
works. "The Israelite" is a life-size statue and an excellent work.

<b>COLLAERT, MARIE.</b> Born in Brussels, 1842. Is called the Flemish Rosa Bonheur and the
Muse of Belgian landscape. Her pictures of country life are most attractive. Her powerful handling
of her brush is modified by a tender, feminine sentiment.

I quote from the "History of Modern Painters": "In Marie Collaert's pictures may be found quiet
nooks beneath clear sky-green stretches of grass where the cows are at pasture in idyllic peace.
Here is to be found the cheery freshness of country life."

<b>COMAN, CHARLOTTE B.</b> Bronze medal, California Mid-Winter Exposition, 1894. Member of
New York Water-Color Club. Born in Waterville, N. Y. Pupil of J. R. Brevoort in America, of
Harry Thompson and Émile Vernier in Paris. This artist has painted landscapes, and sent to
the Philadelphia Exposition in 1876 "A French Village"; to the Paris Exposition, 1878, "Near
Fontainebleau." In 1877 and 1878 she exhibited in Boston, "On the Borders of the Marne" and
"Peasant House in Normandy."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>COMERRE-PATON, MME. JACQUELINE.</b> Honorable mention, 1881; medal at Versailles; officer
of the Academy. Born at Paris, 1859. Pupil of Cabanel. Her principal works are: "Peau d'Ane,
Hollandaise," in the Museum of Lille; "Song of the Wood," Museum of Morlaix; "Mignon," portrait
of Mlle. Ugalde; the "Haymaker," etc.

<b>COOKESLEY, MARGARET MURRAY.</b> Decorated by the Sultan of Turkey with the Order of the
Chefakat, and with the Medaille des Beaux Arts, also a Turkish honor. Medal for the "Lion Tamers
in the Time of Nero." Member of the Empress Club. Born in Dorsetshire. Studied in Brussels
under Leroy and Gallais, and spent a year at South Kensington in the study of anatomy. Mrs.
Cookesley has lived in Newfoundland and in San Francisco. A visit to Constantinople brought
her a commission to paint a portrait of the son of the Sultan. No sittings were accorded her,
the Sultan thinking a photograph sufficient for the artist to work from. Fortunately Mrs. Cookesley
was able to make a sketch of her subject while following the royal carriage in which he was
riding. The portrait proved so satisfactory to the Sultan that he not only decorated the artist,
but invited her to make portraits of some of his wives, for which Mrs. Cookesley had not time.
Her pictures of Oriental subjects have been successful. Among these are: "An Arab Café in the
Slums of Cairo," much noticed in the Academy Exhibition of 1895; "Noon at Ramazan," "The Snake-Charmer,"
"Umbrellas to Mend--Damascus," and a group of the "Soudanese Friends of Gordon." Her "Priestess
of Isis" is owned in Cairo.

Among her pictures of Western subjects are "The Puritan's Daughter," "Deliver Us from Evil,"
"The Gambler's Wife." "Widowed" and "Miss Calhoun as Salome" were purchased by Maclean, of
the Haymarket Theatre; "Death of the First-Born" is owned in Russia; and "Portrait of Ellen
Terry as Imogen" is in a private collection.

"Lion Tamers in the Time of Nero" is one of her important pictures of animals, of which she
has made many sketches.

<b>COOPER, EMMA LAMPERT.</b> Awarded medal at World's Columbian Exposition, 1893; bronze medal,
Atlanta Exposition, 1895. Member of Water-Color Club and Woman's Art Club, New York; Water-Color
Club and Plastic Club, Philadelphia; Woman's Art Association, Canada; Women's International
Art Club, London.

Born in Nunda, N. Y. Studied under Agnes D. Abbatt at Cooper Union and at the Art Students'
League, New York; in Paris under Harry Thompson and at Delécluse and Colarossi Academies.

Mrs. Cooper's work is principally in water-colors. After several years abroad, in the spring
of 1903 she exhibited twenty-two pictures, principally of Dutch interiors, with some sketches
in English towns, which last, being more unusual, were thought her best work. Her picture,
"Mother Claudius," is in the collection of Walter J. Peck, New York; "High Noon at Cape Ann"
is owned by W. B. Lockwood, New York; and a "Holland Interior" by Dr. Gessler, Philadelphia.
Of her recent exhibition a critic writes: "The pictures are notable for their careful attention
to detail of drawing. Architectural features of the rich old Gothic churches are faithfully
indicated instead of blurred, and the treatment is almost devotional in tone, so sympathetic
is the quality of the work. There is a total absence of the garish coloring which has become
so common, the religious subjects being without exception in a minor key, usually soft grays
and blues. It is indeed in composition and careful drawing that this artist excels rather than
in coloring, although this afterthought is suggested by the canvasses treating of secular subjects."--Brooklyn
Standard Union.

<b>CORAZZI, GIULITTA.</b> Born at Fivizzano, 1866. Went to Florence when still a child and
early began to study art. She took a diploma at the Academy in 1886, having been a pupil of
Cassioli. She is a portrait painter, and among her best works are the portraits of the Counts
Francesco and Ottorino Tenderini, Giuseppe Erede, and Raffaello Morvanti. Her pictures of flowers
are full of freshness and spirit and delightful in color. Since 1885 she has spent much time
in teaching in the public schools and other institutions and in private families.

<b>CORRELLI, CLEMENTINA.</b> Member of the Society for the Promotion of the Fine Arts, in Naples.
Born in Lesso, 1840. This artist is both a painter and a sculptor. Pupil of Biagio Molinari,
she supplemented his instructions by constant visits to galleries and museums, where she could
study masterpieces of art. A statue called "The Undeceived" and a group, "The Task," did much
to establish her reputation. They were exhibited in Naples, Milan, and Verona, and aroused
widespread interest.

Her pictures are numerous. Among them are "St. Louis," "Sappho," "Petrarch and Laura," "Romeo
and Juliet," "Hagar and Ishmael in the Desert," "A Devotee of the Virgin," exhibited at Turin
in 1884; a series illustrating the "Seasons," and four others representing the arts.

<b>COSWAY, MARIA</b>. The artist known by this name was born Maria Hadfield, the daughter of
an Englishman who acquired a fortune as a hotel-keeper in Leghorn, which was Maria's birthplace.
She was educated in a convent, and early manifesting unusual artistic ability, was sent to
Rome to study painting. Her friends there, among whom were Battoni, Raphael Mengs, and Fuseli,
found much to admire and praise in her art.

After her father's death Maria ardently desired to become a nun, but her mother persuaded her
to go to England. Here she came under the influence of Angelica Kauffman, and devoted herself
assiduously to painting.

She married Richard Cosway, an eminent painter of miniatures in water-colors. Cosway was a
man of fortune with a good position in the fashionable circles of London. For a time after
their marriage Maria lived in seclusion, her husband wishing her to acquire the dignity and
grace requisite for success in the society which he frequented. Meantime she continued to paint
in miniature, and her pictures attracted much attention in the Academy exhibitions.

When at length Cosway introduced her to the London world, she was greatly admired; her receptions
were crowded, and the most eminent people sat to her for their portraits. Her picture of the
Duchess of Devonshire in the character of Spenser's Cynthia was very much praised. Cosway did
not permit her to be paid for her work, and as a consequence many costly gifts were made her
in return for her miniatures, which were regarded as veritable treasures by their possessors.

Maria Cosway had a delicious voice in singing, which, in addition to her other talent, her
beauty, and grace, made her unusually popular in society, and her house was a centre for all
who had any pretensions to a place in the best circles. Poets, authors, orators, lords, ladies,
diplomats, as well as the Prince of Wales, were to be seen in her drawing-rooms. A larger house
was soon required for the Cosways, and the description of it in "Nollekens and His Times" is
interesting:

"Many of the rooms were more like scenes of enchantment pencilled by a poet's fancy, than anything
perhaps before displayed in a domestic habitation. Escritoires of ebony, inlaid with mother-of-pearl,
and rich caskets for antique gems, exquisitely enamelled and adorned with onyx, opals, rubies,
and emeralds; cabinets of ivory, curiously wrought; mosaic tables, set with jasper, blood-stone,
and lapis-lazuli, their feet carved into the claws of lions and eagles; screens of old raised
Oriental Japan; massive musical clocks, richly chased with ormulu and tortoise-shell; ottomans
superbly damasked; Persian and other carpets, with corresponding hearth-rugs bordered with
ancient family crests and armorial ensigns in the centre, and rich hangings of English tapestry.
The carved chimney-pieces were adorned with the choicest bronzes and models in wax and terra-cotta.
The tables were covered with Sèvres, blue Mandarin, Nankin, and Dresden china, and the cabinets
were surmounted with crystal cups, adorned with the York and Lancaster roses, which might have
graced the splendid banquets of the proud Wolsey."

In the midst of all this fatiguing luxury, Maria Cosway lost her health and passed several
years travelling in Europe. Returning to London, she was again prostrated by the death of her
only daughter. She then went to Lodi, near Milan, where she founded a college for the education
of girls. She spent much time in Lodi, and after the death of her husband established herself
there permanently. A goodly circle of friends gathered about her, and she found occupation
and solace for her griefs in the oversight of her college.

She continued her painting and the exhibition of her pictures at the Royal Academy. She made
illustrations for the works of Virgil, Homer, Spenser, and other poets, and painted portraits
of interesting and distinguished persons, among whom were Mme. Le Brun and Mme. Récamier. The
life and work of Maria Cosway afford a striking contradiction of the theory that wealth and
luxury induce idleness and dull the powers of their possessors. Hers is but one of the many
cases in which a woman's a woman "for a' that."

At an art sale in London in 1901, an engraving by V. Green after Mrs. Cosway's portrait of
herself, first state, brought $1,300, and a second one $200 less.

<b>COUDERT, AMALIA KÜSSNER.</b> Born in Terre Haute, Indiana. This distinguished miniaturist
writes me that she "never studied." Like Topsy, she must have "growed." By whatever method
they are produced or by whatever means the artist in her has been evolved, her pictures would
seem to prove that study of a most intelligent order has done its part in her development.

She has executed miniature portraits of the Czar and Czarina of Russia, the Grand Duchess Vladimir,
King Edward VII., the late Cecil Rhodes, many English ladies of rank, and a great number of
the beautiful and fashionable women of America.

<b>COUTAN-MONTORGUEIL, MME. LAURE MARTIN.</b> Honorable mention, Salon des Artistes Français,
1894. Born at Dun-sur-Auron, Cher. Pupil of Alfred Boucher.

This sculptor has executed the monument to André Gill, Père Lachaise; that of the Poet Moreau,
in the cemetery Montparnasse; bust of Taglioni, in the foyer of the Grand Opera House, Paris;
bust of the astronomer Leverrier, at the Institute, Paris; a statue, "The Spring," Museum of
Bourges; "Sirius," in the Palais of the Governor of Algiers. Also busts of Prince Napoleon,
General Boulanger, the Countess de Choiseul, the Countess de Vogué, and numerous statuettes
and other compositions.

At the Salon, Artistes Français, 1903, she exhibited "Fortune" and "A Statuette."

<b>COWLES, GENEVIEVE ALMEDA.</b> Member of the Woman's Art Club, New York; Club of Women Art
Workers, New York; and the Paint and Clay Club of New Haven. Born in Farmington, Connecticut,
1871. Pupil of Robert Brandagee; of the Cowles Art School, Boston; and of Professor Niemeyer
at the Yale Art School.

Together with her twin sister, Maud, this artist has illustrated various magazine articles.
Also several books, among which are "The House of the Seven Gables," "Old Virginia," etc.

Miss G. A. Cowles designed a memorial window and a decorative border for the chancel of St.
Michael's Church, Brooklyn. Together with her sister, she designed a window in the memory of
the Deaconess, Miss Stillman, in Grace Church, New York City. These sisters now execute many
windows and other decorative work for churches, and also superintend the making and placing
of the windows.

Regarding their work in the Chapel of Christ Church, New Haven, Miss Genevieve Cowles writes
me: "These express the Prayer of the Prisoner, the Prayer of the Soul in Darkness, and the
Prayer of Old Age. These are paintings of states of the soul and of deep emotions. The paintings
are records of human lives and not mere imagination. We study our characters directly from life."

These artists are now, November, 1903, engaged upon a landscape frieze for a dining-room in
a house at Watch Hill.

Miss Genevieve Cowles writes: "We feel that we are only at the beginning of our life-work,
which is to be chiefly in mural decoration and stained glass. I desire especially to work for
prisons, hospitals, and asylums--for those whose great need of beauty seems often to be forgotten."

<b>COWLES, MAUD ALICE.</b> Twin sister of Genevieve Cowles. Bronze medal at Paris Exposition,
1900, and a medal at Buffalo, 1901. Her studies were the same as her sister's, and she is a
member of the same societies. Indeed, what has been said above is equally true of the two sisters,
as they usually work on the same windows and decorations, dividing the designing and execution
between them.

<b>COX, LOUISE--MRS. KENYON COX.</b> Third Hallgarten prize, National Academy of Design; bronze
medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; silver medal at Buffalo, 1901; medal at Charleston, 1902; Shaw
Memorial prize, Society of American Artists, 1903. Member of Society of American Artists, and
an associate of the Academy of Design. Born at San Francisco, 1865. Studies made at Academy
of Design, Art Students' League, under C. Turner, George de Forest Brush, and Kenyon Cox.

Mrs. Cox paints small decorative pictures and portraits, mostly of children. The Shaw prize
was awarded to a child's portrait, called "Olive." Among other subjects she has painted an
"Annunciation," the "Fates," and "Angiola," reproduced in this book.

A writer in the Cosmopolitan says: "Mrs. Cox is an earnest worker and her method is interesting.
Each picture is the result of many sketches and the study of many models, representing in a
composite way the perfections of all. For the Virgin in her 'Annunciation' a model was first
posed in the nude, and then another draped, the artist sketching the figure in the nude, draping
it from the second model. The hands are always separately sketched from a model who has a peculiar
grace in folding them naturally."

Mrs. Cox gives her ideas about her picture of the "Fates" as follows: "My interpretation of
the Fates is not the one usually accepted. The idea took root in my mind years ago when I was
a student at the League. It remained urgently with me until I was forced to work it out. As
you see, the faces of the Fates are young and beautiful, but almost expressionless. The heads
are drooping, the eyes heavy as though half asleep. My idea is, that they are merely instruments
under the control of a higher power. They perform their work, they must do it without will
or wish of their own. It would be beyond human or superhuman endurance for any conscious instrument
to bear for ages and ages the horrible responsibility placed upon the Fates."

<b>CRESPO DE REIGON, ASUNCION.</b> Honorable mention at the National Exhibition, Madrid, 1860.
Member of the Academy of San Fernando, 1839. Pupil of her father. To the exhibition in 1860
she sent a "Magdalen in the Desert," "The Education of the Virgin," "The Divine Shepherdess,"
"A Madonna," and a "Venus." Her works have been seen in many public exhibitions. In 1846 she
exhibited a miniature of Queen Isabel II. Many of her pictures are in private collections.

<b>CROMENBURCH, ANNA VON.</b> In the Museum of Madrid are four portraits by this artist: "A
Lady of the Netherlands," which belonged to Philip IV.; "A Lady and Child," "A Lady with her
Infant before Her," and another "Portrait of a Lady." The catalogue of the Museum gallery says:
"It is not known in what place or in what year this talented lady was born. She is said to
have belonged to an old and noble family of Friesland. At any rate, she was an excellent portrait
painter, and flourished about the end of the sixteenth century. The Museo del Prado is the
only gallery in Europe which possesses works signed by this distinguished artist."

<b>DAHN-FRIES, SOPHIE.</b> Born in Munich. 1835-98. This artist was endowed with unusual musical
and artistic talent. After the education of her only son, she devoted herself to painting,
principally of landscape and flowers. After 1868, so long as she lived she was much interested
in Frau von Weber's Art School for Girls. In 1886, when a financial crisis came, Mme. Dahn-Fries
saved the enterprise from ruin. She exhibited, in 1887, two pictures which are well known--"Harvest
Time" and "Forest Depths."

<b>DAMER, MRS. ANNE SEYMOUR.</b> Family name Conway. 1748-1828. She was a granddaughter of
the Duke of Argyle, a relative of the Marquis of Hertford, and a cousin of Horace Walpole.
Her education was conducted with great care; the history of ancient nations, especially in
relation to art, was her favorite study. She had seen but few sculptures, but was fascinated
by them, and almost unconsciously cherished the idea that she could at least model portraits
and possibly give form to original conceptions.

Allan Cunningham wrote of her thus: "Her birth entitled her to a life of ease and luxury; her
beauty exposed her to the assiduity of suitors and the temptations of courts; but it was her
pleasure to forget all such advantages and dedicate the golden hours of her youth to the task
of raising a name by working in wet clay, plaster of Paris, stubborn marble, and still more
intractable bronze."

Before she had seriously determined to attempt the realization of her dreams, she was brought
to a decision by a caustic remark of the historian, Hume. Miss Conway was one day walking with
him when they met an Italian boy with plaster vases and figures to sell. Hume examined the
wares and talked with the boy. Not long after, in the presence of several other people, Miss
Conway ridiculed Hume's taste in art; he answered her sarcastically and intimated that no woman
could display as much science and genius as had entered into the making of the plaster casts
she so scorned.

This decided her to test herself, and, obtaining wax and the proper tools, she worked industriously
until she had made a head that she was willing to show to others. She then presented it to
Hume; it has been said that it was his own portrait, but we do not know if this is true. At
all events, Hume was forced to commend her work, and added that modelling in wax was very easy,
but to chisel in marble was quite another task. Piqued by this scant praise she worked on courageously,
and before long showed her critic a copy of the wax head done in marble.

Though Hume genuinely admired certain portions of this work, it is not surprising that he also
found defects in it. Doubtless his critical attitude stimulated the young sculptress to industry;
but the true art-impulse was awakened, and her friends soon observed that Miss Conway was no
longer interested in their usual pursuits. When the whole truth was known, it caused much comment.
Of course ladies had painted, but to work with the hands in wet clay and be covered with marble
dust--to say the least, Miss Conway was eccentric.

She at once began the study of anatomy under Cruikshanks, modelling with Cerrachi, and the
handling of marble in the studio of Bacon.

Unfortunately for her art, she was married at nineteen to John Darner, eldest son of Lord Milton,
a fop and spendthrift, who had run through a large fortune. He committed suicide nine years
after his marriage. It is said that Harrington, in Miss Burney's novel of "Cecilia," was drawn
from John Damer, and that his wardrobe was sold for $75,000--about half its original cost!

Mrs. Damer was childless, and very soon after her husband's death she travelled in Europe and
renewed her study and practice of sculpture with enthusiasm. By some of her friends her work
was greatly admired, but Walpole so exaggerated his praise of her that one can but think that
he wrote out of his cousinly affection for the artist, rather than from a judicial estimate
of her talent. He bequeathed to her, for her life, his villa of Strawberry Hill, with all its
valuables, and £2,000 a year for its maintenance.

Mrs. Damer executed many portrait busts, some animal subjects, two colossal heads, symbolic
of the Thames and the Isis, intended for the adornment of the bridge at Henley. Her statue
of the king, in marble, was placed in the Register Office in Edinburgh. She made a portrait
bust of herself for the Uffizi Gallery, in Florence. Her portrait busts of her relatives were
numerous and are still seen in private galleries. She executed two groups of "Sleeping Dogs,"
one for Queen Caroline and a second for her brother-in-law, the Duke of Richmond. Napoleon
asked her for a bust of Fox, which she made and presented to the Emperor. A bust of herself
which she made for Richard Payne Knight was by him bequeathed to the British Museum. Her "Death
of Cleopatra" was modelled in relief, and an engraving from it was used as a vignette on the
title-page of the second volume of Boydell's Shakespeare.

Those who have written of Mrs. Darner's art have taken extreme views. They have praised ad
nauseam, as Walpole did when he wrote: "Mrs. Darner's busts from life are not inferior to the
antique. Her shock dog, large as life and only not alive, rivals the marble one of Bernini
in the Royal Collection. As the ancients have left us but five animals of equal merit with
their human figures--viz., the Barberini Goat, the Tuscan Boar, the Mattei Eagle, the Eagle
at Strawberry Hill, and Mr. Jennings' Dog--the talent of Mrs. Damer must appear in the most
distinguished light."

Cerrachi made a full length figure of Mrs. Damer, which he called the Muse of Sculpture, and
Darwin, the poet, wrote:

    "Long with soft touch shall Damers' chisel charm,
    With grace delight us, and with beauty warm."

Quite in opposition to this praise, other authors and critics have severely denied the value
of her talent, her originality, and her ability to finish her work properly. She has also been
accused of employing an undue amount of aid in her art. As a woman she was unusual in her day,
and as resolute in her opinions as those now known as strong-minded. Englishwoman as she was,
she sent a friendly message to Napoleon at the crisis, just before the battle of Waterloo.
She was a power in some political elections, and she stoutly stood by Queen Caroline during
her trial.

Mrs. Damer was much esteemed by men of note. She ardently admired Charles Fox, and, with the
beautiful Duchess of Devonshire and Mrs. Crewe, she took an active part in his election; "rustling
their silks in the lowest sinks of sin and misery, and in return for the electors' 'most sweet
voices' submitting, it is said, their own sweet cheeks to the salutes of butchers and bargemen."
She did not hesitate to openly express her sympathy with the American colonies, and bravely
defended their cause.

At Strawberry Hill Mrs. Damer dispensed a generous hospitality, and many distinguished persons
were her guests; Joanna Baillie, Mrs. Siddons, Mrs. Garrick, and Mrs. Berry and her daughters
were of her intimate circle.

She was fond of the theatre and frequently acted as an amateur in private houses. She was excellent
in high comedy and recited poetry effectively. Mrs. Damer was one of the most interesting of
Englishwomen at a period of unusual excitement and importance.

When seventy years old she was persuaded to leave Strawberry Hill, and Lord Waldegrave, on
whom it was entailed, took possession. Mrs. Damer then purchased York House, the birthplace
of Queen Anne, where she spent ten summers, her winter home being in Park Lane, London.

She bequeathed her artistic works to a relative, directed that her apron and tools should be
placed in her coffin, and all her letters destroyed, by which she deprived the world of much
that would now be historically valuable, since she had corresponded with Nelson and Fox, as
well as with other men and women who were active in the important movements of her time. She
was buried at Tunbridge, Kent.

<b>DASSEL, MRS. HERMINIE,</b> whose family name was Borchard. Daughter of a Prussian gentleman,
who, having lost his fortune, came to the United States in 1839. His children had enjoyed the
advantages of education and of an excellent position in the world, but here, in a strange land,
were forced to consider the means of their support. Herminie determined to be a painter, and
in some way earned the money to go to Düsseldorf, where she studied four years under Sohn,
all the time supporting herself. Her pictures were genre subjects introducing children, which
found a ready sale.

She returned to America, determined to earn money to go to Italy. In a year she earned a thousand
dollars, and out of it paid some expenses for a brother whom she wished to take with her. Herminie
was still young, and so petite in person that her friends were alarmed by her ambitions and
strenuously opposed her plans. However, she persevered and reached Italy, but unfortunately
the Revolution of 1848 made it impossible for her to remain, and she had many unhappy experiences
in returning to New York.

Her pictures were appreciated, and several of them were purchased by the Art Union, then existing
in New York. Soon after her return to America she married Mr. Dassel, and although she had
a large family she continued to paint. Her picture of "Othello" is in the Düsseldorf Gallery.
Her painting of "Effie Deans" attracted much attention.

Mrs. Dassel interested herself in charities and was admired as an artist and greatly respected
as a woman. She died in 1857.

<b>DEALY, JANE MARY--MRS. W. LLEWELLYN LEWIS.</b> Silver medal at Royal Academy School and
prize for best drawing of the year. Member of Royal Institute of Painters in Water-Colors.
Born in Liverpool. Studied at Slade School and Royal Academy School. Has exhibited several
years at the Royal Academy Exhibition and Institute of Painters in Water-Colors.

In 1901 her picture, "A Dutch Bargain," was etched and engraved. "Hush-a-Bye Baby" and "Good-by,
Summer," have been published by Messrs. De la Rue et Cie. She has successfully illustrated
the following children's books: "Sixes and Sevens," "The Land of Little People," "Children's
Prayers," and "Children's Hymns."

To the Academy Exhibition of 1903 Mrs. Lewis sent "On the Mountain-side, Engelberg."

<b>DE ANGELIS, CLOTILDE.</b> This Neapolitan artist has made a good impression in at least
two Italian exhibitions. To the National Exposition, Naples, 1877, she sent "Studio dal Vero"
and "Vallata di Porrano," showing costumes of Amalfi. Both her drawing and color are good.

<b>DEBILLEMONT-CHARDON, MME. GABRIELLE.</b> Third-class medal, Salon, 1894; honorable mention
at Paris Exposition, 1900; second-class medal, Salon, 1901. This miniaturist is well known
by her works, in which so much grace, freshness, skill, and delicacy are shown; in which are
represented such charming subjects with purity of tone and skilful execution in all regards,
as well as with an incomparable spirit of attractiveness.

This artist is one of the three miniaturists whose works have a place in the Museum of the
Luxembourg. She has had many pupils, and by her influence and example--for they endeavor to
imitate their teacher--she has done much to improve and enlarge the style in miniature painting.

<b>DE HAAS, MRS. ALICE PREBLE TUCKER.</b> Born in Boston. Studied at the Cooper Union and with
M. F. H. de Haas, Swain Gifford, William Chase, and Rhoda Holmes Nicholls. Painter of water-color
pictures and miniatures.

Her pictures are in private hands in Washington, New York, and Boston.

The following article written at the time of an exhibition by Mrs. de Haas gives a just estimate
of her work:

"Mrs. de Haas is especially devoted to the painting in water-color of landscape and sea views,
for which the Atlantic coast affords such a wide and varied range. A constant and keen observer
of Nature, she has seized her marvellous witchery of light and color, and reproduced them in
the glow of the moonlight on the water when in a stormy mood, and the silvery gleam has become
an almost vivid orange tint. She is most happy in the tender opalescent hues of the calm sea
and the soft sky above, while the little boats seem to rock quietly on the water, barely stirred
by the unruffled tide beneath.

"The sunset light is a never-failing source of variety and beauty, and Mrs. de Haas has found
a most attractive subject in the steeple of the old church in York Village--whose graceful
curves are said to have been designed by Sir Christopher Wren--as it rises above the soft mellow
glow of the sky or is pictured against the dark clouds.

"In another mood the artist paints the low rocks among the reeds, with the breakers playing
about them, while the distant sea stretches out to a horizon, with dark, stormy clouds brooding
over the solitary waste. A remarkable union of the beauty of land and water is produced by
a foreground of brilliant fancy flowers relieved by a scrubby tree in the background, with
the faint responsive touch of yellow in the clouds over a calm sea, where gentle motion is
only indicated by the little boat floating on its surface.

"The schooners on the Magnolia Shore with Norman's Woe in the distance suggest alike the tragic
story of the past and the present beauty, for now the sea is calm and the sails are drying
in the sun after the storm is over.

"Many other pictures might be mentioned--a quaint old house at Gloucester, a view of Ten Pound
Island, with its picturesque surroundings, and the familiar beach, with Fort Head at York Harbor.
As a specimen of landscape I would mention a picturesque group of trees at Gerrish Island,
full of sunshine.

"But Mrs. de Haas has added another most attractive style of art to her resources, and her
miniatures, besides their charm of simplicity of treatment and delicacy of coloring, are said
to have the merit of faithful likeness to their originals. Of course portraits, being painted
on commission, are not generally available for exhibition, but Mrs. de Haas has a few specimens
of her work which warrant all that has been said in their praise.

"One is a charming picture of a child, which for beauty of delineation and delicacy of tinting
recalls the memory of our greatest of miniature painters, Malbone.

"Another is the portrait of the artist's father, and is represented with such truth of nature
and so much vitality of expression and character as at once to give rise to the remark, 'I
must have known that man, he seems so living to me.'"

<b>DE KAY, HELENA--MRS. R. WATSON GILDER.</b> This artist has exhibited at the National Academy
of Design, New York, since 1874, flower pieces and decorative panels. In 1878 she sent "The
Young Mother." She was the first woman elected to the Society of American Artists, and to its
first exhibition in 1878 she contributed "The Last Arrow," a figure subject, also a portrait
and a picture of still-life.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>DELACROIX-GARNIER, MME. P.</b> Honorable mention, Salon des Artistes Français; medal at
Exposition, Paris, 1900, for painting in oils; and a second medal for a treatise on water-colors.
Member of the Société des Artistes Français, of the Union of women painters and sculptors,
and vice-president from 1894 to 1900. Pupil of Henry Delacroix in painting in oils and of Jules
Garnier in water-colors.

Mme. Delacroix-Garnier has painted numerous portraits; among them those of the Dowager Duchess
d'Uzès, Jules Garnier, and the Marquis Guy de Charnac, the latter exhibited at the Salon des
Artistes Français, 1903. At the same Salon in 1902 she exhibited the portrait of J. J. Masset,
formerly a professor in the Paris Conservatory.

Among her pictures are the "Happy Mother," "Temptation," "Far from Paris," "Maternal Joys,"
and in the Salon des Artistes Français, 1903, "Youth which Passes."

<b>DELASALLE, ANGÈLE.</b> Honorable mention, Salon des Artistes Français, 1895; third-class
medal, 1897; second-class medal, 1898; travelling purse, 1899; Prix Piot, of the Institute,
1899; silver medal, Paris Exposition, 1900. Member of the Société des Artistes Français, the
Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts, Société des prix du Salon et boursiers de voyage de la Société
Nationale. Born in Paris. Pupil of Jean Paul Laurens and Benjamin-Constant.

Her picture of "Diana in Repose" is in the collection of Alphonse de Rothschild; "Return from
the Chase," a prehistoric scene, purchased by the Government; "The Forge," in the Museum of
Rouen, where is also a "Souvenir of Amsterdam." Portrait of Benjamin-Constant and several other
works of Mlle. Delasalle are in the Luxembourg; other pictures in the collections Demidoff,
Coquelin, Georges Petit, etc.

At the Salon des Artistes Français, 1902, this artist exhibited the portrait of M. Constant
and the "Roof-Maker." At the Salon des Beaux-Arts, 1903, "The Park at Greenwich," "The Pont
Neuf," "On the Thames," and a portrait in oils; and in water-colors, "The Coliseum, Rome,"
"A Tiger Drinking," "A Lion Eating," "Head of a Lion," "The Forge," etc.

In the Magazine of Art, June, 1902, B. Dufernex writes of Mlle. Delasalle essentially as follows:
This artist came into notice in 1895 by means of her picture of "Cain and Enoch's Daughters."
Since then her annual contributions have demonstrated her gradual acquirement of unquestionable
mastery of her art. Her characteristic energy is such that her sex cannot be detected in her
work; in fact, she was made the first and only woman member of the International Association
of Painters under the impression that her pictures--signed simply A. Delasalle--were the work
of a man. Attracted by the dramatic aspects of human nature, she finds congenial subjects in
the great efforts of humanity in the struggle for life. Her power of observation enables her
to give freshness to hackneyed subjects, as in "La Forge." The attitudes of the workmen, so
sure and decided, turning the half-fused metal are perfect in the precision of their combined
efforts; the fatigue of the men who are resting, overwhelmed and stupefied by their exhausting
labor, indicates the work of a profound thinker; whilst the atmosphere, the play of the diffused
glow of the molten metal, are the production of an innate colorist. Her portrait of Benjamin-Constant
represents not only the masterful man, but is also the personification of the painter. The
attentive attitude, discerning eye, the openness of the absorbing look, the cerebral mask where
rests so much tranquil power, the impressive shape of the leonine face, all combine to make
the painting one of the finest portraits of the French school.

She has a perfect and rare knowledge of the art of drawing and a faculty for seizing the character
of things. Mlle. Delasalle exhibited her pictures at the Grafton Gallery, London, in 1902.

<b>DELORME, BERTHE.</b> Medals at Nîmes, Montpellier, Versailles, and London. Member of the
Société des Artistes Français. Born at Paris. Pupil of A. Chaplin.

Mlle. Delorme has painted a great number of portraits, which are in the hands of her subjects.
Her works are exhibited in the Salon au Grand Palais. In 1902 she exhibited a "Portrait of
Mlle. Magdeleine D."

<b>DEMONT-BRETON, VIRGINIE.</b> Paris Salon, honorable mention, 1880; medals of third and second
class, 1881, 1883; Hors Concours; gold medal at Universal Exposition, Amsterdam, 1883; Paris
Expositions, 1889 and 1900, gold medals; medal of honor at Exposition at Antwerp; Chevalier
of the Legion of Honor and of the Belgian Order of Leopold; officer of the Nichan Iftikhar,
a Turkish order which may be translated "A Sign of Glory"; member and honorary president of
the Union des femmes peintres et sculpteurs de France, of the Alliance Feminine, of the Alliance
Septentrionale; fellow of the Royal Academy, Antwerp; member of the Société des Artistes Français;
member of the committee of the Central Union of Decorative Arts and of the American National
Institute; member of the Verein der Schriftstellerinnen und Künstlerinnen of Vienna; one of
the founders of the Société Populaire des Beaux-Arts and of the Société de bienfaisance l'Allaitement
Maternel, etc. Born at Courrière, Pas de Calais, 1859. Pupil of her father, Jules Breton.

The works of this artist are in a number of museums and in private collections in several countries.
"La Plage" is in the Gallery of the Luxembourg, "Les Loups de Mer" in the Museum of Ghent,
"Jeanne d'Arc at Domrémy" in a gallery at Lille; other pictures are in New York, Minneapolis,
and other American cities; also in Berlin and Alexandria, Egypt.

At the Salon des Artistes Français, in 1902, Mme. Demont-Breton exhibited a picture of "Les
Meduses bleues." The fish were left on the beach by the retreating water, and two nude children,
a boy and a girl, are watching them with intense interest. The children are very attractive.

At the Salon of 1903 she exhibited "Seaweed." A strong young fisherwoman, standing in the water,
draws out her net filled with shells, seaweed, and other products of the sea, while two nude
children--again a boy and a girl--are selecting what pleases them in the mother's net.

At the exhibition of Les Femmes Peintres et Sculpteurs, in February, 1903, Mme. Demont-Breton
exhibited the "Head of a Young Girl," which attracted much attention. Gray and sober in color,
with a firmly closed mouth and serious eyes denoting great strength of character, it is admirably
studied and designed and proves the unusual excellence of the art of this gifted daughter of
Jules Breton. At the Exposition of Limoges, May to November, 1903, Mme.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>DIÉTERLE, MME. M.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>DIETRICH, ADELHEID.</b> Born in Wittemberg, 1827. Daughter and pupil of Edward Dietrich,
whose teaching she supplemented by travel in Italy and Germany. She made her home in Erfurt
after her journeys and painted flower and fruit subjects. Her pictures were of forest, field,
and garden flowers. They are much valued by their owners and are mostly in private collections.

<b>DIETRICHSEN, MATHILDE--NÉE BONNEIRE.</b> Born in Christiania, 1847. When but ten years old
she began the study of art at Düsseldorf, under the direction of O. Mengelberg and Tideman.
When but fifteen she married, at Stockholm, the historian of art, Dietrichsen. She travelled
extensively, visiting Germany, France, Italy, and Greece. She passed three years in Rome. Her
pictures show refined, poetic feeling as well as good taste and humor.

<b>DILLAYE, BLANCHE.</b> Silver medal at Atlanta Exposition, 1895; medal at American Art Society,
1902. Member of New York and Philadelphia Water-Color Clubs, American Women's Art Association,
Paris; first president of Plastic Club, Philadelphia. Pupil of Philadelphia Academy of Fine
Arts; has also studied in Europe.

This artist makes a specialty of etching, and the medal she received at Atlanta was for a group
of works in that art. She paints in water-colors, and has exhibited at the principal American
exhibitions, in London, and in both Paris Salons. Her etchings have been widely noticed. At
an early age she showed talent, and preferring etching as a mode of expression, she soon became
noted for the qualities which have since made her famous, and is one of the best known among
a group of women etchers. Her work, exhibited at the New York Etching Club, is conspicuous
on account of its strength, directness, and firmness, allied to delicacy of touch.

"In Miss Dillaye's work one sees the influence of her wanderings in many lands; the quaintness
of Holland landscapes, the quiet village life in provincial France, the sleepy towns in Norway,
and the quietude of English woods."--Success, September, 1902.

<b>DINA, ELISA.</b> A Venetian figure and portrait painter. Is known through the pictures she
has shown at many Italian exhibitions. At Venice, in 1881, she exhibited a graceful, well-executed
work called "Caldanino della Nonna." "Di Ritorno dalla Chiesa" appeared at Milan in the same
year. The latter, which represented a charming young girl coming out of church, prayer-book
in hand, is full of sentiment. She sent to Turin, in 1884, "Popolana," which was much admired.
Her portraits are said to be exceedingly life-like.

<b>DRINGLINGER, SOPHIE FRIEDERICKE.</b> Born in Dresden, 1736; died 1791. Pupil of Oeser in
Leipzig. In the Dresden Gallery are seven miniatures by her of different members of the Dringlinger
family. The head of this house was John Melchior Dringlinger, court jeweller of Augustus the
Strong.

<b>DUBOURG, VICTORIA--MME. Member of the Société des Artistes Français. Born in Paris, 1840.
Studies made at the Museum of the Louvre.

Mme. Dubourg has exhibited her works at the Salons regularly since 1868, and her pictures are
now seen in the Museums of Grenoble and Pau, as well as in many private collections. Her subjects
are of still life.

At the Salon of the Artistes Français, in 1902, Mme. Dubourg exhibited a "Basket of Flowers."

<b>DUBRAY, CHARLOTTE GABRIELLE.</b> Born at Paris, and was the pupil of her father, Gabriel
Vital-Dubray. In 1874 she exhibited at the Salon a marble bust of a "Fellah Girl of Cairo";
in 1875, a silvered bronze bust called the "Study of a Head," in the manner of Florence, sixteenth
century; in 1876, "The Daughter of Jephthah Weeping on the Mountain," a plaster statue, a bust
in bronze, and "A Neapolitan"; in 1877, "The Coquette," a bust in terra-cotta, and a portrait
bust, in bronze, of M. B.

<b>DUCOUDRAY, MLLE. M.</b> Honorable mention, 1898; honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1900.
At the Salon des Artistes Français, in 1902, this sculptor exhibited "Mon Maître Zacharie Astruc,"
and in 1903, "En Bretagne."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>DUFAU, CLÉMENTINE HÉLÈNE.</b> Awards from the Salon, Bashkirtseff prize, 1895; medal third
class, 1897; travelling purse, 1898; medal second class, 1902; Hors Concours; silver medal,
Paris Exposition, 1900. Picture in the Luxembourg, 1902. Member of the Société des Artistes
Français and of the Società Heleno Latina, Rome. Born at Quinsac (Gironde).

Studies made at Julian Academy, under Bouguereau and Robert-Fleury. Mlle. Dufau calls her works
illustrations and posters, and gives the following as the principal examples:

"Fils des Mariniers," in Museum of Cognac; "Rhythme," "Dryades," "Automne," a study, Manzi
collection; "Espagne," "Été," Behourd collection; "Automne," Gallery of the Luxembourg. The
latter is a decorative work of rare interest. At the Salon of 1903 Mlle. Dufau exhibited two
works--"La grande Voix" and "Une Partie de Pelotte, au Pays basque." The latter was purchased
by the Government, and will be hung in the Luxembourg.

<b>DUHEM, MARIE.</b> Officer of the Academy, 1895; member of the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts;
medal at the Paris Exposition, 1900; diploma of honor at Exposition of Women Artists, London,
1900. Born at Guemps (Pas-de-Calais). Has had no masters, has studied and worked by herself.

Her pictures are in several museums: "The Communicants," at Cambrai; "Easter Eve," at Calais;
"Death of a White Sister," at Arras, etc. The picture of St. Francis of Assisi was exhibited
at the Salon of the Beaux-Arts, 1903. The saint, with a large aureole, is standing in the midst
of a desolate landscape; his left hand raised, as if speaking--perhaps to some living thing,
though nothing is revealed in the reproduction in the illustrated catalogue of the Salon.

The other exhibits by Mme. Duhem are flower pictures--jonquils and oranges, chrysanthemums
and roses. In 1902 she exhibited "The House with Laurels" in water-colors, and in oils "The
High Road" and "The Orison." The first is a scene at nightfall and is rendered with great delicacy
and refinement.

<b>DUPRÉ, AMALIA.</b> Corresponding member of the Academy of Fine Arts, Florence, and of the
Academy of Perugia. Born in Florence, 1845. Pupil of her father, Giovanni Dupré, who detected
her artistic promise in her childish attempts at modelling. She has executed a number of notable
sepulchral monuments, one for Adèle Stiacchi; one for the daughter of the Duchess Ravaschieri,
in Naples, which represents the "Madonna Receiving an Angel in her Arms"; it is praised for
its subject and for the action of the figures. "A Sister of Charity" for the tomb of the Cavaliere
Aleotti is her work, and for the tomb of her parents, at Fiesole, she reproduced "La Pietà,"
one of her father's most famous sculptures.

For the facade of the Florence Cathedral she made a statue of "Saint Reparata," and finished
the "San Zenobi" which her father did not live to complete.

She has a wide reputation in Italy for her statues of the "Young Giotto," "St. Peter in Prison,"
and "San Giuseppe Calasanzio."

<b>DURANT, SUSAN D.</b> This English sculptor was educated in Paris, and died there in 1873.
She first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1847. She was the teacher of the Princess Louise,
and executed medallion portraits and busts of many members of the royal family of England.
Her works were constantly exhibited at the Royal Academy. The Art Journal, March, 1873, spoke
of her as "one of our most accomplished female sculptors." Her bust of Queen Victoria is in
the Middle Temple, London; the "Faithful Shepherdess," an ideal figure, executed for the Corporation
of London, is in the Mansion House. Among her other works are "Ruth," a bust of Harriet Beecher
Stowe, and a monument to the King of Belgium, at Windsor.

<b>D'UZÈS, MME. LA DUCHESSE.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1889. Born in Paris, 1847.
Pupil of Bonnassieux and Falguière. The principal works of this artist are "Diana Surprised,"
in marble; "Saint Hubert," in the church of the Sacré-Coeur; the same subject for a church
in Canada; "The Virgin," a commission from the Government, in the church at Poissy; "Jeanne
d'Arc," at Mousson; the monument to Émile Augier, the commission for which was obtained in
a competition with other sculptors; and many busts and statuettes.

In the spring of 1903, at the twenty-second exhibition of the Society of Women Painters and
Sculptors, the Duchesse d'Uzès exhibited a large statue of the Virgin which is to be erected
in the church of St. Clothilde. It is correct anatomically and moulded with great delicacy.

<b>EARL, MAUD.</b> A painter of animals, whose "Early Morning" was exhibited at the Royal Academy
in 1885, and has been followed by "In the Drifts," "Old Benchers," "A Cry for Help," etc. In
1900 she exhibited "The Dogs of Death"; in 1901, "On Dian's Day."

Miss Earl has painted portraits of many dogs on the Continent and in Great Britain, notably
those belonging to Queen Victoria and to the present King and Queen.

This artist exhibits in the United States as well as in the chief cities of England, and has
held private exhibitions in Graves' Galleries. In 1902 her principal work was "British Hounds
and Gun-Dogs." Many of her pictures have been engraved and published in both England and the
United States. Among them are the last-named picture, "Four by Honors," "The Absent-Minded
Beggar," and "What We Have We'll Hold."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>EGLOFFSTEIN, COUNTESS JULIA.</b> Born at Hildesheim. 1786-1868. This painter of portraits
and genre subjects belonged to a family of distinction in the north of Germany. She was a maid
of honor at the court of Weimar. Her pictures were praised by Cornelius and other Munich artists.
Her portrait of Goethe, in his seventy-seventh year, is in the Museum at Weimar. She also painted
portraits of Queen Theresa Charlotte of Bavaria and of the Grand Duchess of Saxe-Weimar. Her
picture of "Hagar and Ishmael in the Desert" is well known in Germany.

<b>EGNER, MARIE.</b> Pupil of Schindler in Vienna. She has exhibited her pictures at the exhibitions
of the Vienna Water-Color Club. In 1890 an exquisite series of landscapes and flowers, in 1894
"A Mill in Upper Austria," in gouache, and in 1895 other work in the same medium, confirming
previous impressions of her fine artistic ability.

<b>EISENSTEIN, ROSA VON.</b> Born in Vienna, 1844. This artist is one of the few Austrian women
artists who made all her studies in her native city. She was a pupil of Mme. Wisinger-Florian,
Schilcher, C. Probst, and Rudolf Huber. Her pictures are of still-life. She is especially fond
of painting birds and is successful in this branch of her art.

<b>ELLENRIEDER, ANNA MARIE.</b> Born at Constance. 1791-1863. A pupil of Einsle, a miniaturist,
and later of Langer, in Munich. In Rome, where this artist spent several years, she became
a disciple of Overbeck. Returning to Switzerland, she received the appointment of Court painter
at Baden in 1829.

Her works are portraits and pictures of historical subjects, many of the latter being Biblical
scenes. Among her best works are the "Martyrdom of Saint Stephen," in the Catholic church at
Carlsruhe; a "Saint Cecilia," a "Madonna," and "Mary with the Christ-Child Leaving the Throne
of Heaven" are in the Carlsruhe Gallery. "Christ Blessing Little Children" is in the church
at Coburg. Among her other works are "John Writing his Revelation at Patmos," "Peter Awaking
Tabitha," and "Simeon in the Temple."

Her religious subjects sometimes verge on the sentimental, but are of great sweetness, purity,
and tenderness. She was happier in her figures of women than in those of men. She also made
etchings of portraits and religious subjects in the manner of G. F. Schmidt.

<b>EMMET, LYDIA FIELD.</b> Medal at Columbian Exhibition, Chicago, 1893; medal at Atlanta Exhibition,
1895; honorable mention at Pan-American Exposition, Buffalo, 1901. Member of the Art Students'
League and Art Workers' Club for Women. Born at New Rochelle, New York. Studied at Art Students'
League under Chase, Mowbray, Cox, and Reid; at the Julian Academy, Paris, under Robert-Fleury,
Giacomotti, and Bouguereau; at the Shinnecock School of Art under W. M. Chase; at Académie
Vieté, Paris, under Collin, and in a private studio under Mac Monnies.

Miss Emmet has painted many portraits, which are in private hands in New York, Chicago, Boston,
and elsewhere. She executed a decorative painting for the Woman's Building at Chicago which
is still in that city.

<b>EMMET, ROSINA--MRS. ARTHUR MURRAY SHERWOOD.</b> Silver medal, Paris Exposition, 1889; the
Art Department medal, Chicago, 1893; bronze medal, Buffalo, 1901. Member of the Society of
American Artists, American Water-Color Society, New York Water-Color Club. Born in New York
City. Studied two years under William M. Chase and six months at Julian Academy, Paris.

Miss Emmet exhibited at the National Academy of Design, in 1881, a "Portrait of a Boy"; in
1882, a "Portrait of Alexander Stevens" and "Waiting for the Doctor"; in 1883, "Red Rose Land"
and "La Mesciana"; her picture called "September" belongs to the Boston Art Club. The greater
number of her works are in private collections.

<b>ESCALLIER, MME. ÉLÉONORE.</b> Medal at Salon, 1868. A pupil of Ziegler. A painter of still-life
whose pictures of flowers and birds were much admired. "Chrysanthemums," exhibited in 1869,
was purchased by the Government. "Peaches and Grapes," 1872, is in the Museum at Dijon; and
in 1875 she executed decorative panels for the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur.

<b>ESCH, MATHILDE.</b> Born at Kletten, Bohemia, 1820. Pupil of Waldmüller in Vienna. She also
studied a long time in Düsseldorf and several years in Paris, finally settling in Vienna. She
painted charming scenes from German and Hungarian life, as well as flowers and still-life.
Most of her works are in private galleries.

<b>ESINGER, ADÈLE.</b> Born in Salzburg, 1846. In 1874 she became a student at the Art School
in Stuttgart, where she worked under the special direction of Funk, and later entered the Art
School at Carlsruhe, where she was a pupil of Gude. She also received instruction from Hansch.
Her pictures are remarkable for their poetic feeling; especially is this true of "A Quiet Sea,"
"The Gollinger Waterfall," and "A Country Party."

<b>EYCK, MARGARETHA VAN.</b> In Bruges, in the early decades of the fifteenth century, the
Van Eycks were inventing new methods in the preparation of colors. Their discoveries in this
regard assured them an undying fame, second only to that of their marvellous pictures.

Here, in the quaint old city--a large part of which we still describe as mediaeval--in an atmosphere
totally unlike that of Italy, beside her devout brothers, Hubert and Jan, was Margaretha. When
we examine the minute detail and delicate finish of the pictures of Jan van Eyck, we see a
reason why the sister should have been a miniaturist, and do not wonder that with such an example
before her she should have excelled in this art. The fame of her miniatures extended even to
Southern Italy, where her name was honorably known.

We cannot now point to any pictures as exclusively hers, as she worked in concert with her
brothers. It is, however, positively known that a portion of an exquisite Breviary, in the
Imperial Library in Paris, was painted by Margaretha, and that she illustrated other precious
and costly manuscripts.

She was held in high esteem in Bruges and was honored in Ghent by burial in the Church of St.
Bavo, where Hubert van Eyck had been interred. Karl van Mander, an early writer on Flemish
art, was poetically enthusiastic in praise of Margaretha, calling her "a gifted Minerva, who
spurned Hymen and Lucina, and lived in single blessedness."

A Madonna in the National Gallery in London is attributed to Margaretha van Eyck.

<b>FACIUS, ANGELIKA.</b> Born at Weimar. 1806-87. This artist was distinguished as an engraver
of medals and gems. Pupil of her father, Friedrich Wilhelm Facius. Goethe recommended her to
Rauch, and in 1827 she went to Berlin to study in his studio. Under her father's instruction
she engraved the medal for the celebration at Weimar, 1825, of the jubilee of the Grand Duke
Charles Augustus. Under Rauch's direction she executed the medal to commemorate the duke's
death. In 1841 she made the medal for the convention of naturalists at Jena.

After Neher's designs, she modelled reliefs for the bronze doors at the castle of Weimar.

<b>FARNCOMB, CAROLINE.</b> Several first prizes in exhibitions in London, Toronto, Montreal,
and Ottawa. Member of Women's Art Club, London, Ontario. Born near Toronto, Canada. Pupil of
Mr. Judson and Mlle. van den Broeck in London, Canada, and later of William Chase in New York.
Now studying in Paris.

<b>FASSETT, CORNELIA ADÈLE.</b> 1831-1898. Member of the Chicago Academy of Design and the
Washington Art Club. Born in Owasco, New York. Studied water-color painting in New York under
an English artist, J. B. Wandesforde. Pupil in Paris of Castiglione, La Tour, and Mathieu.
Her artistic life was spent in Chicago and Washington, D. C.

She painted numerous portraits in miniature and a large number in oils. Among those painted
from life were Presidents Grant, Hayes, and Garfield; Vice-President Henry Wilson; Charles
Foster, when Governor of Ohio, now in the State House at Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Rankin, president
of Howard University, Washington; and many other prominent people of Chicago and Washington.

Her chief work and that by which she is best remembered hangs in the Senate wing of the United
States Capitol. No picture in the Capitol attracts more attention, and large numbers of people
view it daily. It is the "Electoral Commission in Open Session." It represents the old Senate
Chamber, now the Supreme Court Room, with William M. Evarts making the opening argument. There
are two hundred and fifty-eight portraits of notable men and women, prominent in political,
literary, scientific, and social circles. Many of these were painted from life.

The Arcadian, New York, December 15, 1876, in speaking of this picture, says: "Mr. Evarts is
addressing the court, and the large number of people present are naturally and easily grouped.
There is no stiffness nor awkwardness in the positions, nothing forced in the whole work. There
are, in the crowd, ladies in bright colors to relieve the sombreness of the black-coated men,
and the effect of the whole picture is pleasing and artistic, aside from its great value as
an historical work."

The Washington Capital, March 17, 1878: "Mrs. Fassett's 'Electoral Commission' gives evidence
of great merit, and this illustration in oil of an historical event in the presidential annals
of the country, by the preservation of the likenesses in groups of some of the principal actors,
and a few leading correspondents of the press, will be valuable. This picture we safely predict
will be a landmark in the history of the nation that will never be erased. It memorizes a most
remarkable crisis in our life, and perpetuates, both by reason of its intrinsic value as a
chapter of history and its intrinsic worth as an art production, the incident it represents
and the name of the artist."

In the Washington Star, October, 1903, an article appeared from which I quote as follows: "On
the walls of the beautiful tessellated corridor of the eastern gallery floor of the Senate
wing of the Capitol at Washington, just opposite the door of the caucus room of the Senate
Democrats, hangs a large oil painting that never fails to attract the keenest curiosity of
sightseers and legislators alike. And for good reason: that painting depicts in glowing colors
a scene of momentous import, a chapter of American political history of graver consequence
and more far-reaching results than any other since the Civil War. The printed legend on the
frame of the picture reads:

"'The Florida case before the electoral commission, February 5, 1877. Painted from life sittings
in the United States Supreme Court room by Cornelia Adèle Fassett.'"

"The painting belongs to Congress, having been purchased from the artist for $15,000. As you
face the picture the portraits of two hundred and fifty-eight men and women, who, twenty-six
years ago, were part and parcel of the legislative, executive, judicial, social, and journalistic
life of Washington, look straight at you as if they were still living and breathing things,
as, indeed, many of them are. As a work of art the picture is unique, for each face is so turned
that the features can easily be studied, and the likenesses of nearly all are so faithful as
to be a source of constant wonder and delight."--David S. Barry, in Pearson's Magazine.

<b>FAUVEAU, FÉLICIE DE.</b> Second-class medal at Florence in 1827, when she made her début
by exhibiting a statue, "The Abbot," and a group, "Queen Christine and Monaldeschi." Born in
Florence, of French parents, about 1802. For political reasons she was forced to leave Florence
about 1834, when she went to Belgium, but later returned to her native city.

Among her best works are "St. George and the Dragon," bronze; the "Martyrdom of St. Dorothea,"
"Judith with the Head of Holofernes," "St. Genoveva," marble, and a monument to Dante.

Her works display a wonderful skill in the use of drapery and a purity of taste in composition.
She handled successfully the exceedingly difficult subject, a "Scene between Paolo and Francesca
da Rimini."

<b>FAUX-FROIDURE, MME. EUGÉNIE JULIETTE.</b> Honorable mention at Salon, 1898; the same at
the Paris Exposition, 1900; third-class medal at Salon, 1903; first prize of the Union of Women
Painters and Sculptors, 1902; chevalier of the Order Nichan Iftikar; Officer of Public Instruction.
Born at Noyen (Sarthe). Pupil of P. V. Galland, Albert Maignan, and G. Saintpierre.

Mme. Faux-Froidure's pictures are principally of fruit and flowers, and three have been purchased
by the Government. One, "Raisins" (Grapes), is in the Museum at Commerey; a second, "Hortensias"
(Hydrangeas), is in the Museum of Mans; the third, which was in the Salon of 1903, has not
yet been placed. In 1899 she exhibited a large water-color called "La Barque fleurie," which
was much admired and was reproduced in "L'Illustration." Her water-color of "Clematis and Virginia
Creeper" is in the Museum at Tunis. In the summer exhibition of 1903, at Évreux, this artist's
"Peonies" and "Iris" were delightfully painted--full of freshness and brilliancy, such as would
be the despair of a less skilful hand.

At the Limoges Exposition, May to November, 1903, Mme. Faux-Froidure was announced as hors
concours in water-colors.

La Société Français des Amis des Arts purchased from the Salon, 1903, two water-colors by Mme.
Faux-Froidure--"Roses" and "Loose Flowers," or "Jonchée fleurie."

Her pictures at the Exposition at Toulouse, spring of 1903, were much admired. In one she had
most skilfully arranged "Peaches and Grapes." The color was truthful and delicate. The result
was a most artistic picture, in which the art was concealed and nature alone was manifest.
A second picture of "Zinnias" was equally admirable in the painting of the flowers, while that
of the table on which they were placed was not quite true in its perspective.

Of a triptych, called the "Life of Roses," exhibited at the Salon des Artistes Français, 1903,
Jules de Saint Hilaire writes: "Mme. Faux-Froidure was inspired when she painted her charming
triptych of 'Rose Life.' In the compartment on the left the roses are twined in a crown resembling
those worn in processions; in the centre, in all its dazzling beauty, the red rose, the rose
of love, is enthroned; while the panel on the right is consecrated to the faded rose--the souvenir
rose, shrivelled, and lying beside the little casket which it still perfumes with its old-time
sweetness."

<b>FISCHER, CLARA ELIZABETH.</b> Born in Berlin, 1856. Studied under Biermann six years, and
later under Julius Jacob. Her pictures are portraits and genre subjects. Among the latter are
"What Will Become of the Child?" 1886; "Orphaned," "In the Punishment Corner," and "Morning
Devotion."

<b>FISCHER, HELENE VON.</b> Born in Bremen, 1843. She first studied under a woman portrait
painter in Berlin; later she was a pupil of Frische in Düsseldorf, of Robie in Brussels, and
of Hertel and Skarbina in Berlin.

She makes a specialty of flowers, fruit, and still-life; her fruit and flower pieces are beautiful,
and her pictures of the victims of the chase are excellent.

<b>FLESCH-BRUNNENGEN, LUMA VON.</b> Born in Brünn in 1856. In Vienna she worked under Schöner,
the interpreter of Venetian and Oriental life, and later in Munich she acquired technical facility
under Frithjof Smith. Travels in Italy, France, and Northern Africa furnished many of her themes--mostly
interiors with figures, in which the entering light is skilfully managed. "The Embroiderers,"
showing three characteristic figures, who watch the first attempt of their seriously earnest
pupil, is full of humor. In sharp contrast to this is a "Madonna under the Cross," exhibited
at Berlin in 1895, in which the mother's anguish is most sympathetically rendered. "Devotion,"
"Shelterless," and the "Kitchen Garden" are among the paintings which have won her an excellent
reputation as a genre painter.

<b>FLEURY, MME. FANNY.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>FOCCA, SIGNORA ITALIA ZANARDELLI.</b> Silver medal at Munich, 1893; diploma of gold medal
at Women's Exhibition, London, 1900. Member of Società Amatorie Pittori di Belle Arti, of the
Unione degli Artisti, and of the Società Cooperativa, all in Rome.

Born in Padua, 1872. Pupil of Ottin in Paris, and of the Academy of Fine Arts in Rome.

The principal works of this sculptor are a "Bacchante," now in St. Petersburg; "Najade," sold
in London; "The Virgin Mother," purchased by Cavaliere Alinari of Florence; portrait of the
Minister Merlo, which was ordered by the Ministry of Public Instruction. Many other less important
works are in various Italian and foreign cities.

Signora Focca is a professor of drawing in the Normal Schools of Rome.

<b>FOLEY, MARGARET E.</b> A native of New Hampshire. Died in 1877. Without a master, in the
quiet of a country village, Miss Foley modelled busts in chalk and carved small figures in
wood. At length she made some reputation in Boston, where she cut portraits and ideal heads
in cameo. She went to Rome and remained there. She became an intimate friend of Mr. and Mrs.
Howitt, and died at their summer home in the Austrian Tyrol.

Among her works are busts of Theodore Parker, Charles Sumner, and others; medallions of William
and Mary Howitt, Longfellow, and Bryant; and several ideal statues and bas-reliefs.

In a critical estimate of Miss Foley we read: "Her head of the somewhat impracticable but always
earnest senator from Massachusetts--Sumner--is unsurpassable and beyond praise. It is simple,
absolute truth, embodied in marble."--Tuckerman's Book of the Artists.

"Miss Foley's exquisite medallions and sculptures ought to be reproduced in photograph. Certainly
she was a most devoted artist, and America has not had so many sculptors among women that she
can afford to forget any one of them."--Boston Advertiser, January, 1878.

<b>FONTAINE, JENNY.</b> Silver medal, Julian Academy, 1889; silver medal at Amiens Exposition,
1890 and 1894; honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1892; gold medal at Rouen Exposition, 1893;
third-class medal, Salon, 1896; bronze medal, Paris Exposition, 1900. Pupil of Jules Lefebvre
and Benjamin-Constant.

Mlle. Fontaine paints portraits only--of these she has exhibited regularly at the Salons for
sixteen years. Among her sitters have been many persons of distinction, both men and women.

At the Salon of 1902 she exhibited her own portrait; in 1903, portraits of MM. Rene et Georges
D. The Journal des Arts, giving an account of the exhibition at Rheims, summer, 1903, says:
"The portraits here are not so numerous as one might expect, but they are too fine to be overlooked.
Mlle. Jenny Fontaine has, for a long time, held a distinguished place as a portraitiste in
our Salons, and two of her works are here: a portrait of a young girl and one of General Jeanningros."

<b>FONTANA, LAVINIA.</b> Born in Bologna, 1552. Her father was a distinguished portrait painter
in Rome in the time of Pope Julius III., but the work of his daughter was preferred before
his own. She was elected to the Academy of Rome, while her charms were extolled in poetry and
prose.

Pope Gregory XIII. made her his painter-in-ordinary. Patrician ladies, cardinals, and Roman
nobles contended for the privilege of having their portraits from her hand. Men of rank and
scholars paid court to her, but, with a waywardness not altogether uncommon, she married a
man who was even thought to be lacking in sense.

One of her two daughters was blind of one eye, and her only son was so simple that the loungers
in the antechamber of the Pope were accustomed to amuse themselves with his want of wit. She
is said to have died of a broken heart after the death of this son, and her portrait of him
is considered her masterpiece.

Her own portrait was one of her most distinguished works, and though it is in possession of
her husband's family, the Zappi, of Imola, it may be judged by an engraving after it in Rossini's
"History of Italian Painting."

Many portraits by Lavinia Fontana are in the private collections of Italian families for whom
they were painted. In the Gallery of Bologna there is a night-scene, the "Nativity of the Virgin,"
by her, and in the Escorial is a Madonna lifting a veil to regard the sleeping Jesus, while
SS. Joseph and John stand near by.

In the churches of San Giacomo Maggiore and of the Madonna del Baracano, both in Bologna, are
Fontana's pictures of the "Madonna with Saints." In Pieve di Cento are two of her works--a
"Madonna" and an "Ascension." It is said that several pictures by this artist are in England,
but I have failed to find to what collections they belong.

Lavinia Fontana was a distinguished woman in a notable age, and if, in translating the tributes
that were paid her by the authors of her day, we should faithfully render their superlatives,
these writings would seem absurd in their exaggerations, and our comparatively cold adjectives
would be taxed beyond their power of expression.

<b>FONTANA, VERONICA.</b> Born in 1576. A pupil of Elisabetta Sirani, who devoted herself to
etching and wood-engraving. She is known from her exceedingly fine, delicate portraits on wood
and etchings of scenes from the life of the Madonna.

<b>FOORD, MISS J.</b> A painter of plants and flowers, which are much praised. An article in
the Studio, July, 1901, says: "Miss Foord, by patient and observant study from nature, has
given us a very pleasing, new form of useful work, that has traits in common; with the illustrations
to be found in the excellent botanical books of the beginning of the nineteenth century." After
praising the works of this artist, attention is called to her valuable book, "Decorative Flower
Studies," illustrated with forty plates printed in colors.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>FOOTE, MARY HALLOCK.</b> Born in Milton, New York. At New York School of Design for Women
this artist studied anatomy and composition under William Rimmer, and drawing on wood and black
and white under William J. Linton. Mrs. Foote is a member of the Alumni of the School of Design.

Her illustrations have been exhibited by the publishers for whom they were made. In the beginning
her work was suited to the taste and custom of the time. She illustrated the so-called "Gift
Books" and poems in the elaborate fashion of the period. Later she was occupied principally
in illustrations for the Century Company and Houghton, Mifflin & Co. Mrs. Foote writes that
Miss Regina Armstrong--now Mrs. Niehaus--in a series of articles on "Women Illustrators of
America," whom she divided into classes, placed her with the "Story-Tellers."

<b>FORBES, MRS. STANHOPE.</b> Mr. Norman Gastin, in an article upon the work of the Royal Academician,
Stanhope Forbes, in the Studio, July, 1901, pays the following tribute to the wife of the artist,
whose maiden name was Elizabeth Armstrong:

"Mrs. Stanhope Forbes's work does not ask you for any of that chivalrous gentleness which is
in itself so derogatory to the powers of women. As an artist she stands shoulder to shoulder
with the very best; she has taste and fancy, without which she could not be an artist. But
what strikes one about her most is summed up in the word 'ability.' She is essentially able.
The work which that wonderful left hand of hers finds to do, it does with a certainty that
makes most other work look tentative beside hers. The gestures and poses she chooses in her
models show how little she fears drawing, while the gistness of her criticism has a most solvent
effect in dissolving the doubts that hover round the making of pictures."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>FORTI, ENRICA.</b> Rome.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>FORTIN DE COOL, DELFINA.</b> Third-class medal, Madrid, 1864, for the following works reproduced
on porcelain: the "Conception" of Murillo, the "Magdalen" of Antolinez, and the portrait of
Alonso Cano by Velazquez; also a portrait on ivory of a young girl.

This artist, who was French by birth, was a pupil of her father. For paintings executed in
the imperial works at Sèvres, she was awarded prizes at Blois, Besançon, Rouen, Perigueux,
and Paris.

<b>FOULQUES, ELISA.</b> Born in Pjatigorsk, in the Caucasus. She came under Italian influence
when but four years old, and was taken to Naples. At the Institute of the Fine Arts she was
a pupil of Antoriello, Mancinelli, Perrisi, and Solari. She received a diploma when leaving
the Institute. Her picture, "Mendica," was exhibited in Naples, 1886; "Un ultimo Squardo" and
"Sogno," 1888. In London, in 1888, "Tipo Napoletano," "Studio dal vero," and "Ricordi" were
exhibited. Since 1884 this artist has taught drawing in the Municipal School for Girls in Naples,
and has executed many portraits in oil, as well as numerous pastels and water-colors. Among
her later works are "La Figlia del Corsaro," "Chiome nere," "Una Carezza al Nonno," and "Di
Soppiatto."

<b>FRACKLETON, SUSAN STUART.</b> Medal at Antwerp Exposition, 1894; at Paris Exposition, 1900.
Founder and first president of National League of Mineral Painters; member of Park and Outdoor
Association. Born at Milwaukee, 1848. Pupil of private studios in Milwaukee and New York.

Mrs. Frackleton's gas-kilns for firing decorated china and glass are well known; also her book,
"Tried by Fire," a treatise on china painting. As a ceramic artist she has exhibited in various
countries, and has had numerous prizes for her work. She declined the request of the Mexican
Government to be at the head of a National School of Ceramic Decoration, etc. She is also a
lecturer on topics connected with the so-called arts and crafts.

<b>FREEMAN, FLORENCE.</b> Born in Boston. 1836-1883. Pupil of Richard S. Greenough in Boston
and of Hiram Powers in Florence, Italy. After a year in Florence she went to Rome, where she
made her home. Among her works are a bust of "Sandalphon," which belonged to Mr. Longfellow,
bas-reliefs of Dante, and a statue of the "Sleeping Child."

She sent to the Exhibition in Philadelphia, 1876, a chimney-piece on which were sculptured
"Children and the Yule-Log and Fireside Spirits." This was purchased by Mrs. Hemenway, of Boston.

"Her works are full of poetic fancy; her bas-reliefs of the seven days of the week and of the
hours are most lovely and original in conception. Her sketches of Dante in bas-reliefs are
equally fine. Her designs for chimney-pieces are gems, and in less prosaic days than these,
when people were not satisfied with the work of mechanics, but demanded artistic designs in
the commonest household articles, they would have made her famous."--The Revolution, May, 1871.

<b>FRENCH, JANE KATHLEEN.</b> Member of the Water-Color Society of Ireland. Born in Dublin.
Studied in Brussels under M. Bourson, and in Wiesbaden under Herr Kögler. Miss French is a
miniaturist and exhibited at the Royal Academy, London, in 1901, a case of her works which
she was later specially invited to send to an exhibition in Liverpool, and several other exhibits.

The last two years she has exhibited in Ireland only, as her commissions employ her time so
fully that she cannot prepare for foreign expositions.

<b>FREYBERG, BARONESS MARIE ELECTRINE.</b> Elected to the Academy of St. Luke, 1822. Born in
Strassburg. 1797-1847. Daughter and pupil of the landscape painter, Stuntz. After travelling
in France and Italy, making special studies in Rome, she settled in Munich. She painted historical
and religious subjects, and a few portraits. "Zacharias Naming the Little St. John" is in the
New Picture Gallery, Munich; in the same gallery is also a portrait called the "Boy Playing
a Flute"; in the Leuchtenberg Gallery, Petersburg, is her "Three Women at the Sepulchre." She
painted a picture called the "Glorification of Religion through Art" and a "Madonna in Prayer."
She also executed a number of lithographs and etchings.

<b>FRIEDLÄNDER, CAMILLA.</b> Born in Vienna, 1856. She was instructed by her father, Friedrich
Friedländer. Among her numerous paintings of house furniture, antiquities, and dead animals
should be especially mentioned her picture in the Rudolfinum at Prague, which represents all
sorts of drinking-vessels, 1888. Some critics affirm that she has shown more patience and industry
than wealth of artistic ideas, but her still-life pictures demanded those qualities and brought
her success and artistic recognition.

<b>FRIEDRICH, CAROLINE FRIEDERIKE.</b> Born in Dresden. 1749-1815. Honorary member of Dresden
Academy. In the Dresden Gallery is a picture by this artist, "Pastry on a Plate with a Glass
of Wine," signed 1799.

<b>FRIEDRICHSON, ERNESTINE.</b> Born in Dantzig, 1824. Pupil of Marie Wiegmann in Düsseldorf,
and later of Jordan and Wilhelm Sohn. While still a student she visited Holland, Belgium, England,
and Italy. Her favorite subjects were scenes from the every-day life of Poles and Jews.

Her best pictures were sold to private collectors. Among these are "Polish Raftsmen Resting
in the Forest," 1867; "Polish Raftsmen before a Crucifix," 1869; "A Jew Rag-picker," 1870;
"The Jewish Quarter in Amsterdam on Friday Evening," 1881; "A Goose Girl," 1891.

<b>FRIES, ANNA.</b> Silver medal at Berne, 1857; two silver medals from the Academy of Urbino;
silver medal at the National Exposition by Women in Florence. Honorary member of the Academy
Michael Angela, Florence, and of the Academy of Urbino. Born in Zürich, 1827. She encountered
much opposition to her desire to study art, but her talent was so manifest that at length she
was permitted to study drawing in Zürich, and her rapid progress was finally recognized and
she was taken to Paris, where the great works of the masters were an inspiration to her. She
has great individuality in her pictures, which have been immoderately praised. She visited
Italy, and in 1857 went to Holland, where she painted portraits of Queen Sophia and the Prince
of Orange. She returned to Zürich and was urged to remain in Switzerland, but she was ambitious
of further study, and went again to Florence. She there painted a portrait of the Grand Duchess
Marie of Russia. She turned her attention to decorative painting, and her success in this may
be seen in the facades of the Schmitz villa, the Schemboche establishment, and her own home.
When we consider the usual monotony of this art, the charming effects which Mme. Fries has
produced make her distinguished in this specialty.

<b>FRISHMUTH, HARRIET WHITNEY.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>FRITZE, MARGARETHE AUGUSTE.</b> Born in Magdeburg, 1845. This genre painter worked first
in Bremen, and went in 1873 to Munich, where she studied with Grützner and Liezen-Meyer. The
most significant of her pictures is "The Little Handorgan-Player with His Monkey." She has
also executed many strong portraits, and her painting is thought to show the influence of A.
von Kotzebue and Alexander Wagner. In 1880 she spent some time in Stuttgart, and later settled
in Berlin.

<b>FRORIEP, BERTHA.</b> Born in Berlin, 1833. Pupil of Martersteig and Pauwels in Weimar. This
artist's pictures were usually of genre subjects. Her small game pictures with single figures
are delightful. She also painted an unusually fine portrait of Friedrich Rückert. At an exhibition
by the women artists of Berlin, 1892, a pen study by Fräulein Froriep attracted attention and
was admired for its spirit and its clear execution.

<b>FRUMERIE, MME. DE.</b> Honorable mention at the Salon des Artistes Français in 1893 and
1895. Born in Sweden, she studied in the School of Fine Arts in Stockholm. There she gained
a prize which entitled her to study abroad during four years. Member of the Society of American
Artists and of the American Society of Miniature Painters. Born in Boston. Studied at the Cowles
Art School, Boston, under Denis M. Bunker, and at the Art Students' League, New York, under
H. Siddons Mowbray and William M. Chase.

Mrs. Fuller is a most successful miniature painter. Among her principal works are "Mother and
Child," in the collection of Mrs. David P. Kimball, Boston; "Girl with a Hand-Glass," owned
by Hearn; and "Girl Drying Her Feet," for which the medal was given in Paris.

Mrs. Fuller's miniatures are portraits principally, and are in private hands. Some of her sitters
in New York are Mrs. J. Pierpont Morgan and her children, Mrs. H. P. Whitney and children,
J. J. Higginson, Esq., Dr. Edwin A. Tucker, and many others.

<b>GAGGIOTTI-RICHARDS, EMMA.</b> Historical and portrait painter, of the middle of the nineteenth
century, is known by her portrait of Alexander von Humboldt (in possession of the Emperor William
II.) and by her portrait of herself before her easel. Her historical paintings include "The
Crusader" and a "Madonna."

<b>GALLI, EMIRA.</b> Reproduces with great felicity the customs of the lagoons, the boys and
fishermen of which she represents with marvellous fidelity. She depicts not only characteristics
of features and dress, but of movement. "Giovane veneziana" and "Ragazzo del Popolo" were exhibited
at Turin in 1880, and were much admired. "Il Falconiere" was exhibited at both Turin and Milan.
"Un Piccolo Accattone" has also been accorded warm praise.

<b>GARDNER, ELIZABETH JANE.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1879; gold medal, 1889; hors
concours. Born in Exeter, New Hampshire, 1851, her professional life has been spent in Paris,
where she was a pupil of Hugues Merle, Lefebvre, and M. William A. Bouguereau, whom she married.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>GARRIDO Y AGUDO, MARIA DE LA SOLEDAD.</b> Born in Salamanca. Pupil of Juan Peyró. She exhibited
two works at the National Exposition, 1876--a portrait and a youth studying a picture. In 1878
she sent to the same exposition "The Sacrifice of the Saguntine Women." At the Philadelphia
Exposition, 1876, she exhibited her "Messenger of Love." Her "Santa Lucia" is in the church
of San Roque de Gardia.

<b>GASSO Y VIDAL, LEOPOLDA.</b> Honorable mention, 1876. Prizes, 1876, for two works sent to
the Provincial Exposition of Leon. Member of the Association of Authors and Artists, 1876.
Born in the Province of Toledo. Pupil of Manuel Martinez Ferrer and Isidoro Lozano. At Madrid,
in 1881, she exhibited "A Pensioner," "A Beggar," a portrait of Señorita M. J., and a landscape;
in 1878, "A Coxcomb," "Street Venders of Ávila," and a landscape; and in 1881, at an exhibition
held by D. Ricardo Hernandez, were seen a landscape and a portrait of D. Lucas Aguirre y Juarez.

<b>GEEFS, MME. FANNY ISABELLE MARIE.</b> Born at Brussels. 1814-1883. Wife of the sculptor,
Guillaume Geefs. A painter of portraits and genre subjects which excel the historical pictures
she also painted. Her "Assumption of the Virgin" is in a church at Waterloo; "Christ Appearing
to His Disciples," in a church at Hauthem. "The Virgin Consoling the Afflicted" was awarded
a medal in Paris, and is in the Hospital of St. John at Brussels. The "Virgin and Child" was
purchased by the Belgian Government. Her portraits are good, and among her genre subjects the
"Young Mother," the "Sailor's Daughter," and "Ophelia" are attractive and artistic in design
and execution.

<b>GELDER, LUCIA VAN.</b> Born in Wiesbaden. 1864-1899. This artist was the daughter of an
art dealer, and her constant association as a child with good pictures stimulated her to study.
In Berlin she had lessons in drawing with Liezenmayer, and in color with Max Thedy. She was
also a constant student at the galleries. She began to work independently when eighteen, and
a number of her pictures achieved great popularity, being reproduced in many art magazines.
"The Little Doctor," especially, in which a boy is feeling, with a grave expression of knowledge,
the pulse of his sister's pet kitten, has been widely copied in photographs, wood-engravings,
and in colors. She repeated the picture in varying forms. She died in Munich, where she was
favorably known through such works as "The Village Barber," "Contraband," "The Wonderful Story,"
"At the Sick Bed," and "The Violin Player," the last painted the year before her death.

<b>GENTILESCHI, ARTEMISIA.</b> 1590-1642. A daughter of Orazio Gentileschi, whom she accompanied
to England when he was invited to the court of Charles I. Artemisia has been called the pupil,
and again the friend, of Guido Reni. Whatever the relation may have been, there is no doubt
that the manner of her painting was influenced by Guido, and also by her study of the works
of Domenichino.

Wagner says that she excelled her father in portraits, and her own likeness, in the gallery
at Hampton Court, is a powerful and life-like picture. King Charles had several pictures from
her hand, one of which, "David with the Head of Goliath," was much esteemed. Her "Mary Magdalene"
and "Judith with the Head of Holofernes" are in the Pitti Palace. The latter work is a proof
of her talent. Lanzi says: "It is a picture of strong coloring, of a tone and intensity which
inspires awe." Mrs. Jameson praised its execution while she regretted its subject.

Her picture of the "Birth of John the Baptist," in the Gallery of the Prado, is worthy of attention,
even in that marvellous collection, where is also her "Woman Caressing Pigeons." The Historical
Society of New York has her picture of "Christ among the Doctors."

After her return to Italy from England, this artist was married and resided in Naples. Several
of her letters are in existence. They tell of the manner of her life and give an interesting
picture of Neapolitan society in her day.

<b>GESSLER DE LACROIX, ALEJANDRENA</b>--known in art circles as Madame Anselma. Gold medal
at Cadiz, 1880. Honorary member of the Academy of Cadiz. She has spent some years in Paris,
where her works are often seen in exhibitions. Her medal picture at Cadiz was an "Adoration
of the Cross." One of her most successful works is called "The Choir Boys."

<b>GILES, MISS--MRS. BERNARD JENKIN.</b> This sculptor exhibited a life-size marble group,
called "In Memoriam," at the Royal Academy in 1900, which attracted much attention. It was
graceful in design and of a sympathetic quality. At an open competition in the London Art Union
her "Hero" won the prize. In 1901 she exhibited an ambitious group called "After Nineteen Hundred
Years, and still They Crucify." It was excellent in modelling, admirable in sentiment, and
displayed strength in conception and execution.

<b>GINASSI, CATERINA.</b> Born in Rome, 1590. This artist was of noble family, and one of her
uncles, a Cardinal, founded the Church of Santa Lucia, in which Caterina, after completing
her studies under Lanfranco, painted several large pictures. After the death of the Cardinal,
with money which he had given her for the purpose, Caterina founded a cloister, with a seminary
for the education of girls.

As Abbess of this community she proved herself to be of unusual ability. In her youth she had
been trained in practical affairs as well as in art, and, although she felt that "the needle
and distaff were enemies to the brush and pencil," her varied knowledge served her well in
the responsibilities she had assumed, and at the head of the institution she had founded she
became as well known for her executive ability as for her piety.

Little as the works of Lanfranco appeal to us, he was a notable artist of the Carracci school;
Caterina did him honor as her master, and, in the esteem of her admirers, excelled him as a
painter.

<b>GIRARDET, BERTHE.</b> Gold medal at the Paris Exposition, 1900; honorable mention, Salon
des Artistes Français, 1900; ten silver medals from foreign exhibitions. Her father was Swiss
and her mother a Miss Rogers of Boston. She was a pupil for three months of Antonin-Carlès,
Paris. With this exception, Mme. Girardet writes: "I studied mostly alone, looking to nature
as the best teacher, and with energetic perseverance trying to give out in a concrete form
all that filled my heart."

Among her works are: "L'Enfant Malade," bought by the city of Paris and placed in the Petit
Palais des Champs Élysées; a group called the "Grandmother's Blessing," purchased by the Government
and placed in a public museum; the bust of an "Old Woman," acquired by the Swiss Government
and placed in the Museum of Neuchâtel; a group, the "Madonna and Child," for which the artist
received the gold medal; and two groups illustrating the prayer, "Give us this day our daily
bread." Also portrait statues and busts belonging to private collections.

At the Salon des Artistes Français, 1902, Mme. Girardet exhibited the "Grandmother's Blessing"
and "L'Enfant Malade." At the same Salon, 1903, the two groups illustrating the Lord's Prayer.

A writer, G. M., in the Studio of December, 1902, writes: "Prominent among the women artists
of the day whose talents are attracting attention is Mme. Berthe Girardet. She has a very delicate
and very tender vision of things, which stamps her work with genuine originality. She does
not seek her subjects far from the life around her; quite the reverse; and therein lies the
charm of her sculpture--a great, sincere, and simple charm, which at once arouses one's emotion.
What, for instance, could be more poignantly sad than this 'Enfant Malade' group, with the
father, racked with anxiety, bending over the pillow of his fragile little son, and the mother,
already in an attitude of despair, at the foot of the bed? The whole thing is great in its
profound humanity.

