LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE.

SEPTEMBER, 1885.

Copyright, 1885, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY.

ON THIS SIDE.

IX.

Among the inhabitants of the United States there are none that stand so firmly on the national
legs as the Virginians,--though it would be more correct to contract this statement somewhat,
substituting "State" for "national," since it has never been the habit of Virginians to make
themselves more than very incidentally responsible for thirty-eight States and ten Territories
occupied by persons of mixed race, numerous religions, objectionable politics, and no safe
views about so much as the proper way to make mint-juleps. When Sir Robert presented himself
one day at the door of a fine old house belonging to the golden age of ante-bellum prosperity
in Caroline County, he was received by two of the most English Englishmen to be found on this
planet, in the persons of Mr. Edmund and Mr. Gregory Aglonby, brothers, bachelors, and joint-heirs
of the property he had come to look at. These gentlemen received him with a dignity and antique
courtesy irresistibly suggestive of bag-wigs, short swords, and aristocratic institutions generally,
a courtesy largely mingled with restrained severity and unspoken suspicion until his identity
had been fully established by the letters of introduction he had brought, his position defined,
and his mission in Caroline clearly set forth. An Englishman out of England was a fact to be
accounted for, not imprudently accepted without due inquiry; but, this done, the law and traditions
of hospitality began to alleviate the situation and temper justice with mercy. The lady of
the house was sent for, and proved to be a wonderfully pretty old lady, who might have just
got out of a sedan-chair, whose manner was even finer and statelier than that of her brothers
(diminutive as she was in point of mere inches), and who executed a tremendous courtesy when
Sir Robert was presented. "An English gentleman travelling in this country for pleasure, and
desirous of seeing 'Heart's Content,' Anne Buller," explained the elder brother. Miss Aglonby's
face, which had worn a look of mild interest during the first part of this speech, clouded
perceptibly at its close. She murmured some mechanical speech of welcome in an almost inaudible
voice, and sat down in a rigid and uncompromising fashion, while her heart contracted painfully.
A gentleman to look at the place: there had been several such in the last year, who had come,
and seen, and objected to the price, and ridden away again; but perhaps this one might not
ride away, and the uneasy thought tormented her throughout the conversation that followed.
The brothers, meanwhile, had quite accepted Sir Robert, and had insisted, with a calm, authoritative
air, on sending for his "travelling impedimenta," which had been deposited at the hotel in
a neighboring town, and had expressed a lofty hope that he would do them the honor to consider
himself their guest.

"The res angusta domi will not permit us to entertain you in a manner befitting your rank and
in consonance with our wishes," said Mr. Edmund Aglonby, in his representative capacity as
head of the family, "but, that consideration waived, I need not say that we shall esteem it
an honor and a pleasure to have you domesticated beneath this roof as long as you find any
satisfaction in remaining."

"It was not my idea, certainly, to intrude upon you here, but rather to treat with your solicitor
in this matter; but if you find it more agreeable to set him aside, which between gentlemen
is usually altogether more satisfactory, and will, in addition, allow me to become your guest
for a few days, I can only say that I shall be delighted to accept your kind hospitality,"
replied Sir Robert.

"Brother Gregory, will you see that our guest's effects are at once transferred to his room
here?" said Mr. Aglonby, half turning in his chair and giving a graceful wave with one of his
long, shapely hands toward the door, after which he bowed with dignified grace to Sir Robert,
and said, "Your decision gives us great satisfaction, sir." Mr. Gregory Aglonby confirmed this
statement in Johnsonian periods before he left, and tiny Miss Aglonby expressed herself as
became a lady who had been receiving guests in that very room for fifty years with stiff but
genuine courtesy. The atmosphere was so familiar to Sir Robert that he could scarcely believe
himself to be in an American household. Could this be the American type of his dreams? Was
there ever a country in which the scenes shifted so completely with a few hours or days of
travel? "If this goes on, America will mean everything, anything, to me," he thought. "When
I hear of a Frenchman, or German, or Italian, I have some idea of what I shall find; but it
is not so here at all. This Mr. Aglonby is quite evidently a gentleman, and a high-bred one;
but so was Porter in Boston, and Colonel De Witt, and those Baltimore fellows; yet how different
they all are! These men remind me more of my grandfather and my great-uncles than any Englishman
of the present day. Perhaps they are English. I'll ask. Who would ever suppose them to be countrymen
of Ketchum's?"

After dinner,--and you may be sure the dinner was a good one, for Miss Aglonby was one of a
generation of women whose knowledge of housewifely arts was such that, shut up in a lighthouse
or wrecked on a desert island, they would have made shift to get a nice meal somehow, even
if they could not have served it, as she did, off old china and graced it with old silver,--after
dinner, then, a long and pleasant evening set in, with no thought or talk of business-matters.
Sir Robert was charmed with his new acquaintances, and not less by the matter than by the manner
of their conversation. Did they talk of travels, Mr. Aglonby "liked to read books of adventure,"
but had never been out of the State of Virginia, and had no wish to go anywhere. He deplored
his fate in being compelled at his age to leave it permanently and take up his residence in
Florida, where his physician was sending him. He talked of "Mr. Pope" and "Mr. Addison," quoted
Milton and the Latin classics, and had chanced upon "a modern work lately, by a writer named
Thackeray," "Henry Esmond," which had pleased him extremely. On hearing this, Sir Robert took
occasion to ask him whether he liked any of the writings of this and that New-England author
of the day, about whom he had been hearing a great deal since his arrival in the country, and
Mr. Aglonby replied, with perfect truth, that he had "never heard of them," though he added
that Irving and Cooper, the latest additions to his library, were, in his opinion, "writers
of merit." In politics Mr. Aglonby declared himself the champion of a defunct party,--the "old-line
Whigs,"--and explained "the levelling, agrarian tendencies of Tom Jefferson" and the result
of his policy, which had been "to eliminate the gentleman from politics." Mr. Gregory Aglonby
spoke with regretful emotion of that period of the history of Virginia in which her local magistrates
had managed county affairs in such a way as to secure her "safety, honor, and welfare," when
universal suffrage had not "cursed the country with ignorance and incompetence, legally established
at present, indeed, but sure to be supplemented by a property or educational test eventually."
In religion they were what "the Aglonbys had always been,--attached adherents of the Episcopal
Church in this country, as of the Establishment in England." Quite early in the evening Sir
Robert had propounded his question as to their nationality. "Are you an American?" he had asked
the elder of the two gentlemen, and both had replied, "We are Virginians," in accents that
were eloquent of love and pride.

"Upon my word, if I were asked what your nationality was, I should say that you were English,"
remarked Sir Robert, feeling that he was making what they must see was a handsome concession.
But he was not talking to a Sam Bates now. Mr. Edmund Aglonby regarded him with a reserved
air, as if he had said something rather flippant.

Mr. Gregory said gravely, "You doubtless mean it kindly, but we would prefer to be thought
what we are,--Virginians. Not that we are ashamed of our parent stock, but Anne Buller here
is the seventh of the name born in this country, and it is only natural that we should be completely
identified with it. Unworthy as we are to represent it, we are Virginians." That anybody could
be more than a Virginian had never crossed Mr. Aglonby's mind; but it should be said, in defence
of what many regard as an exaggerated State pride, that to such, men to be less than a Virginian
(that is, an embodiment of the virtues represented to them by the title) is equally impossible.

Whist was now proposed, and played by the light of two candles in old-fashioned candlesticks,
that towered high enough to allow mild yellow rays to illuminate a vast expanse of bald head
belonging to Mr. Gregory, and made the dark sheen of the polished mahogany table dimly visible
beneath. An oil-lamp on the high mantel-shelf enabled Sir Robert to get a ghostly impression
of the large, bare room in which they were sitting,--the high ceilings, the black-looking floors
fading away into grewsome corners, the spindle-legged furniture that had no idea of accommodating
itself to a lolling, mannerless generation, and loomed up in some occasional piece in a threatening
sort of way,--solid, massive, dignified furniture, conscious of its obligations to society
and ready to fulfil them to the very end, however little a frivolous and degenerate world might
be worthy of such accessories. More than once in the pauses of the game Sir Robert's eyes wandered
to the pictures, of which there were a number, all portraits, two being half discernible,--a
young matron in ruby velvet and pearls, with hair dressed in a pyramid, a coach-and-six in
court-plaster stuck on a snowy forehead, and eyes that would have laughed anybody into a good
humor; and, opposite, a gentleman of the pursiest, puffiest, most prosperous description, the
husband of the young matron, and so evidently high-tempered, dull, and obstinate, that he must
have brought many a tear into the laughing eyes.

"A handsome woman, that," he said, after one of these moments of inattention, "and a good picture."

"It is an ancestress of ours on the distaff side,--Lady Philippa Vane,--and is accounted a
Lely.--Brother Gregory, if you will have the kindness to cut the cards we can proceed with
our game.--The other is her husband and cousin, a man of rank and large property but incurably
vicious propensities, to whom we are rather fond of attributing certain follies and weaknesses
in his descendants, and who we could wish had laid to heart the maxim, 'Nobilitatis virtus
non stemma character.' They were of the Vanes of Huddlesford," said Mr. Aglonby.

"Ah," said Sir Robert, "you suppose yourself to have some connection with the Huddlesford Vanes?"

Mr. Aglonby's white tufted brows arched themselves in surprise above his dark eyes at the question,
and there was a little more dignified reserve than before in his voice and manner as he said,
"Descent and alliance are not matters of supposition in Virginia, but of record.--Anne Buller,
I beg your forgiveness for having inadvertently revoked. My memory is really growing too treacherous
to permit of my long enjoying this diversion, however great the horrors of an old age without
cards may be."

The deferential courtesy paid to Miss Aglonby by her brothers was the most remarkable feature
of the game to Sir Robert, and, when it was over, the first thought of both was to place a
chair for her in the corner she generally occupied. They were not in haste,--it was impossible
to associate the idea of hurry or flurry with either of them,--but somehow there was a little
collision between them in doing this, followed by formal bows and elaborate mutual apologies,
which were broken in upon by Miss Aglonby's low voice, saying, "Brother Edmund, I feared that
you had slipped again.--He sustained a grave injury in that way last winter" (this to Sir Robert),
"and I am always afraid that the disastrous experience may be repeated.--Brother Gregory, I
thank you. I am entirely comfortable, and I beg that you will be seated now. Perhaps our guest
will do us the favor to resume the very instructive and entertaining discourse with which he
was beguiling us earlier in the evening."

Thus adjured, Sir Robert proceeded to instruct and entertain, with such success that all three
of his companions were charmed, though they gave no frivolous evidences of it, such as laughing
heartily, interrupting him to interject phrases or opinions into the "discourse," or replying
in an animated strain. They listened with intelligent seriousness to what he had to say, weighed
it apparently, replied to it with gravity, responded to some jest with a smile; but, although
they were not people to approve of crackling thorns under a pot, or any form of folly, they
were, in their way, appreciative of the culture, humor, and insight he showed. Mr. Aglonby
begged to be favored with his "observations" on America, and added that "the dispassionate
reflections of an intelligent foreigner should be esteemed of the utmost value by all judicious
patriots and enlightened political economists, calling attention, as they often did, to evils
and dangers whose existence had not been previously suspected." Mr. Gregory Aglonby wished
to hear more of his travels among "that God-forsaken people the French." Miss Aglonby was eager
to know more of the England of "Bracebridge Hall."

When bedtime came at last ("the proper season for repose," dear old Anne Buller called it,
when she rose to "retire"), another courtesy was executed in front of Sir Robert by the châtelaine
of "Heart's Content," who said, "How truly it has been remarked that we owe some of our keenest
pleasures in life to strangers! You must permit me to thank you again for your improving and
pleasing conversation, which I shall often recall, and always with lively satisfaction. May
your slumbers be refreshing and your awakening devoid of all pain! I wish you a very good night,
sir." With this Miss Aglonby took up one of the top-heavy candlesticks, and glided, like the
shade she was and ghost of a past period, up the stairs.

While Mr. Gregory was looking to bolts and bars, Sir Robert strayed about the room with his
hands behind him, looking at the pictures, followed by Mr. Aglonby, who made no extensive comment
on them, but gave a word of explanation occasionally when his guest halted longer than usual
before a canvas, such as, "The First Edmund, who came here in 1654;" "Edmund the Second;" "Edmund
the Third, in his Oxford cap and gown;" "Gregory Aglonby, a colonel in the Revolutionary forces;"
"Red-haired Edmund, as we call him, because the others are all dark;" "Colonel Everard Buller
Aglonby, who represented this county in the House of Burgesses for thirty years, and his wife,
who was a Calvert,--a great-aunt, a woman of extraordinary piety, who reduced herself from
a condition of affluence to comparative poverty by the manumission of her three hundred slaves."

