Mary Barclay grasped his big fat hand and pressed it, and shook her head. Something in her
throat choked her, and she could not speak at first. The two stood a moment in silence before
the woman said emphatically, "No--no! Martin Culpepper, God is keeping your books!"

The shabby old man stood uncovered, a smile quivering about his eyes. "Maybe so, Mary Barclay,
maybe so," he said. The smile fell into his countenance as he added, "That is why I have gone
so long without a settlement; with my account so badly overdrawn, too." Then he turned to go
and walked as lightly down the street as a man could walk, broken before his time with the
weight of a humiliation upon him and a fear greater than his shame burning in his fluttering
old heart.

And now if you are reading this story to be in the company of the rich Mr. Barclay, to feel
the madness of his millions, to enjoy the vain delirium of his power, skip the rest of this
chapter. For it tells of a shabby time in the lives of all of the threadbare people who move
in this tale. Even John Barclay sees the seams and basting threads of his life here, and as
for the others,--the colonel and Jake and the general and Watts, and even Molly,--what do these
people mean to you, these common people, in their old clothes, with their old hearts and their
rusty sins and their homely sorrows? Milord and his lady will not scamper across these pages;
no rooms with rich appointments will gladden your eyes, and perhaps in the whole book you will
not find a man in evening dress nor a woman in a dinner gown. And now the only thing there
is to offer is Jake Dolan, aged fifty-seven, with scanty, grizzled hair, sitting in his shirt-sleeves
in the basement of the court-house, with the canvas cot he sleeps on for a chair, mending his
blue army coat. Beside him on the bed are his trousers, thin, almost worn through, patched
as to the knees and as to other important places, but clean and without a loose thread hanging
from them. Surely an old Irishman mending an old army coat under a dusty electric light bulb
in the basement of a court-house, wherein he is janitor by grace of the united demand of Henry
Schnitzler Post of the G.A.R. No. 432, is not a particularly inspiring picture. But he has
bitten the last thread with his teeth, and is putting away the sewing outfit. And now Mr. Dolan,
from the drawer of a little table beside the cot,--a table with Bob Hendricks' picture, framed
in plush, sitting on the top,--now Mr. Dolan takes from the drawer a tablet of writing paper
printed by the county. It is his particular pride, that writing paper. For upon it at the top
is the picture of the new one-hundred-thousand-dollar court-house, and beside the court-house
picture are these words: "Office of Jacob Dolan, Custodian of Public Buildings and Grounds
of Garrison County." Mr. Dolan will be writing a letter, and so long as it begins with "Dear
Sir," and nothing more endearing, surely we may look over his shoulder while he writes,--even
though it is bad form. And as Mr. Dolan will be writing to "Robert Hendricks, care of Cook's
Hotel, Cairo, Egypt,"--which he spells with an "i," but let that pass, and let some of his
literary style and construction pass with it,--and as he will be writing to Mr. Hendricks,
perhaps Miss Nancy may do well to go sit in the corridor and put her fingers in her ears while
we read. For Mr. Dolan is an emotional man, and he is breathing hard, and by the way he grabs
his pen and jabs it into the ink one can see that he is angry.

    "DEAR SIR (begins Mr. Dolan): I take my pen in hand to answer yours
    of this date from New York and would have written you anyhow, as
    there is much on my mind and I would cable you, but I can't, being
    for the moment short of funds. I write to say, Robert, that we have
    Mart Culpepper in jail--right across the hall. He came in at nine
    o'clock to-night, and the damn Pop judge put his bail at $15,999 to
    cover his alleged shortage, and the stinker won't accept us old boys
    on the bond--Phil and Watts and Os and the Company 'C' boys I could
    get before the judge went to bed, and Gabe Carnine, the gut, would
    not sign--would not sign old Mart's bond, sir, and I hope to be in
    hell with a fishpole some day poking him down every time his slimy
    fingers get on the rim of the kettle. But we'll have him out in the
    morning, if every man in Garrison County has to go on the bond. They
    say Mart received money to pay four or five mortgages due to a
    Vermont Bank, and they sent a detective here about a month ago and
    worked up the case, and closed his business to-day and waited until
    to-night to arrest him. I've just come from Mart. It's hell. Hoping
    this will find you enjoying the same I beg my dear sir to sign
    myself

    "Your ob't s'r'v't J. DOLAN."

When Jacob Dolan finished his letter, he addressed the envelope and hurried away to mail it.
And so long as we are here in the court-house, and the custodian is gone, would you like to
step in and see Martin Culpepper across the hall? It is still in the basement now, and if you
are quiet, so quiet that the slipping patter of a rat's foot on the floor comes to you, a sound
as of a faint whining will come to you also. There--now it comes again. No, it is not a dog;
it is a man--a man in his agony. Shall we open the great iron door, and go into the cell room?
Why, not even you, Miss Nancy--not even you, who love tears so? You would not see much--only
a man, with his coat and vest off, an old man with a rather shaggy, ill-kept chin whisker and
not the cleanest shirt in the world--though it is plaited, and once was a considerable garment.
And the man wearing it, who lies prostrate upon his face, once was a considerable man. But
he is old now, old and broken, and if he should look up, as you stepped in the corridor before
him, you would see a great face ripped and scarred by fear and guilt, and eyes that look so
piteously at you--eyes of a man who cannot understand why the blow has fallen, surprised eyes
with a horror in them; and if he should speak, you will find a voice rough and mushy with asthma.
The heart that has throbbed so many nights in fear and the breath that has been held for so
many footsteps, at last have turned their straining into disease. No--let's not go in. He bade
his daughter go, and would not see his wife, and they have sent to the City for his son,--so
let us not bother him, for to-morrow he will be out on bail. But did you hear that fine, trembling,
animal whine--that cry that wrenched itself out of set teeth like a living thing? Come on--let
us go and find Jake, and if he is taking a drink, don't blame him too much, Miss Nancy--how
would you like to sleep in that room across the corridor?

At nine o'clock the next morning two hundred men had signed the bond the judge required, and
Martin Culpepper shambled home with averted eyes. They tried to carry him on their shoulders,
thinking it would cheer him up; and from the river wards of the town scores came to give him
their hands. But he shook himself away from them, like a great whipped dog, and walked slowly
up the hill, and turned into Lincoln Avenue alone.

John Barclay heard the news of the colonel's trouble as he stepped from his private car in
the Sycamore Ridge yards that morning, and Jane went to the Culpepper home without stopping
at her own. That afternoon, Molly Brownwell knocked at Barclay's office door in the mill, and
went in without waiting for him to open it. She was pale and haggard, and she sat down before
he could speak to her.

"John," she said in a dead voice that smote his heart, "I have come for my reward now. I never
thought I'd ask it, John, but last night I thought it all out, and I don't believe it's begging."

"No," he replied quietly, "it's not. I am sure--"

But she did not let him finish. She broke in with: "Oh, I don't want any of your money; I want
my own money--money that you got when you sold me into bondage, John Barclay--do you remember
when?" She cried the last words in a tremulous little voice, and then caught herself, and went
on before he could put into words the daze in his face. "Let me tell you; do you remember the
day you called me up into your office and asked me to hold Adrian in town to save the wheat
company? Yes, you do--you know you do! And you remember that you played on my love for Bob,
and my duty to father. Well, I saved you, didn't I?"

"Yes, you did, Molly," Barclay replied.

She stared a moment at the framed pictures of mill designs on the wall, and at the wheat samples
on the long table near her, and did not speak; nor did he. She finally broke the silence: "Well,
I saved you, but what about father--" her voice broke into a sob--"and Bob--Jane has told you
what Bob and I have been--and what about me--what have you taken from me in these twenty years?
Oh, John, John, what a fearful wreck we have made of life--you with your blind selfishness,
and I with my weakness! Did you know, John, that the money that father borrowed that day, twenty
years ago, of Adrian, to lend to you, is the very money that sent him to jail last night? I
guess he--he took what wasn't his to pay it back." Her face twitched, and she was losing control
of her voice. Barclay stepped to the door and latched it. She watched him and shook her head
sadly. "You needn't be afraid, John--I'm not going to make a scene."

"It's all right, Molly," said Barclay. "I want to help you--you know that. I'm sorry, Molly--infinitely
sorry."

She looked at him for a moment in silence, and then said: "Yes, John, I'll give you credit
for that; I think you're as sorry as a selfish man like you can be. But are you sorry enough
to go to jail a pauper, like father, or wander over the earth alone, like Bob, or come and
beg for money, like me?" Then she caught herself quickly and cried: "Only it's not begging,
John--it's my own; it's the price you got when you sold me into bondage; it's the price of
my soul, and I need it now. Those people only want their money--that is all."

"Yes," he replied, "I suppose that is all they want." He drummed on his desk a moment and then
asked, "Does your father know how much it is?"

"Yes," she answered, "I found in his desk at the house last night a paper on which he had been
figuring--poor father--all the night before. All the night before--" she repeated, and then
sobbed, "Poor father--all the night before. He knew it was coming. He knew the detective was
here. He told me to-day that the sum he had there was correct. It is sixteen thousand five
hundred and forty-three dollars. But he doesn't know I'm here, John. I told him I had some
money of my own--some I'd had for years--and I have--oh, I have, John Barclay--I have." She
looked up at him with the pallid face stained with fresh tears and asked, "I have--I have--haven't
I, John, haven't I?"

He put his elbows on the desk and sank his head in his hands and sighed, "Yes, Molly--yes,
you have."

They sat in silence until the roar of the waters and the murmur of the wheels about them came
into the room. Then the woman rose to go. "Well, John," she said, "I suppose one shouldn't
thank a person for giving her her own--but I do, John. Oh, it's like blood money to me--but
father--I can't let father suffer."

She walked to the door, he stepped to unlatch it, and she passed out without saying good-by.
When she was gone, he slipped the latch, and sat down with his hands gripping the table before
him. As he sat there, he looked across the years and saw some of the havoc he had made. There
was no shirking anything that he saw. A footfall passing the door made him start as if he feared
to be caught in some guilty act. Yet he knew the door was locked. He choked a little groan
behind his teeth, and then reached for the top of his desk, pulled down the rolling cover,
and limped quickly out of the room--as though he were leaving a corpse. What he saw was the
ghost of the Larger Good, mocking him through the veil of the past, and asking him such questions
as only a man's soul may hear and not resent.

He walked over the mill for a time, and then calling his stenographers from their room, dictated
them blind and himself dumb with details of a deal he was putting through to get control of
the cracker companies of the country. When he finished, the sunset was glaring across the water
through the window in front of him, and he had laid his ghost. But Molly Brownwell had her
check, and her father was saved.

That evening the colonel sat with Watts McHurdie, on the broad veranda of the Culpepper home,
and as the moon came out, General Ward wandered up the walk and Jake Dolan came singing down
the street about "the relic of old dacincy--the hat me father wore." Perhaps he had one drink
in him, and perhaps two, or maybe three, but he clicked the gate behind him, and seeing the
three men on the veranda, he called out:--

"Hi, you pig-stealing Kansas soldiers, haven't ye heard the war is over?" And then he carolled:
"Oh, can't get 'em up, Oh, can't get 'em up, Oh, can't get 'em up in the mornin'--Get up, you"--but
the rest of the song, being devoted to the technical affairs of war, and ending with a general
exhortation to the soldier to "get into your breeches," would give offence to persons of sensitive
natures, and so may as well be omitted from this story.

There was an awkward pause when Dolan came on the veranda. The general had just tried to break
the ice, but Dolan was going at too high a speed to be checked.

"Do you know," he asked, "what I always remember when I hear that call? You do not. I'll tell
you. 'Twas the morning of the battle of Wilson's Creek, and Mart and me was sleeping under
a tree, when the bugler of the Johnnies off somewhere on the hill he begins to crow that, and
it wakes Mart up, and he rolls over on me and he says: 'Jake,' he says, or maybe 'twas me says,
'Mart,' says I--anyway, one of us says, 'Shut up your gib, you flannel-mouthed mick,' he says,
'and let me pull my dream through to the place where I find the money,' he says. And I says,
'D'ye know what I'm goin' to do when I get home?' says I. 'No,' says he, still keen for that
money; 'no,' says he, 'unless it is you're going to be hanged by way of diversion,' he says.
'I'm going to hire a bugler,' says I. 'What fer--in the name of all the saints?' says he. 'Well,'
says I, 'I'm going to ask him to blow his damn horn under my window every morning at five o'clock,'
I says, 'and then I'm going to get up and poke my head out of the window and say: "Mister,
you can get me up in the army, but on this occasion would you be obliging enough to go to hell"!'
And Mart, seeing that the money was gone from his dream, he turns over and wallops me with
the blanket till I was merely a palpitating mass. That was a great battle, though, boys--a
great battle."

