No. 192.]
SATURDAY, JULY 2. Sc. 2., by S. W. Singer                         3
  On the Passage from "King Lear"                          4
  Manners of the Irish, by H. T. Ellacombe, &c.            4

  MINOR NOTES:--Burial in an Erect Posture--The
  Archbishop of Armagh's Cure for the Gout, 1571--The
  last known Survivor of General Wolfe's Army in
  Canada--National Methods of applauding--Curious
  Posthumous Occurrence                                    5

  QUERIES:--
  Did Captain Cook first discover the Sandwich Islands?
  by J. S. Warden                                          6
  Superstition of the Cornish Miners                       7

  MINOR QUERIES:--Clerical Duel--Pistol--Council
  of Laodicea, Canon 35.--Pennycomequick, adjoining
  Plymouth--Park the Antiquary--Honorary D.C.L.'s--
  Battle of Villers en Couché--Dr. Misaubin--Kemble,
  Willet, and Forbes--Piccalyly--Post-Office about
  1770--"Carefully examined and well-authenticated"--
  Sir Heister Ryley--Effigies with folded Hands            7

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Passage in
  Bishop Horsley--"Marry come up!"--Dover Court--
  Porter--Dr. Whitaker's ingenious Earl--Dissimulate       9

  REPLIES:--
  Bishop Ken, by the Rev. J. H. Markland                  10
  Bohn's Edition of Hoveden, by James Graves              11
  Coleridge's Christabel, by J. S. Warden                 11
  Its                                                     12
  Family of Milton's Widow, by T. Hughes                  12
  Books of Emblems--Jacob Behmen, by C. Mansfield
  Ingleby                                                 13
  Raffaelle's Sposalizio                                  14
  Windfall                                                14
  Mr. Justice Newton, by the Rev. H. T. Ellacombe and
  F. Kyffin Lenthall                                      15

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Mr. Lyte's
  Treatment of Positives--Stereoscopic Angles--Query
  respecting Mr. Pollock's Process--Gallo-nitrate of
  Silver                                                  15

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Verney Note
  decyphered--Emblems by John Bunyan--Mr. Cobb's
  Diary--"Sat cito si sat bene"--Mythe versus Myth--The
  Gilbert Family--Alexander Clark--Christ's Cross--The
  Rebellious Prayer--"To the Lords of Convention"--
  Wooden Tombs and Effigies--Lord Clarendon and the
  Tubwoman--House-marks--"Amentium haud amantium"--
  The Megatherium in the British Museum--Pictorial
  Proverbs--"Hurrah," and other War-cries                 17

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c.                                     20
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                            21
  Notices to Correspondents                               21
  Advertisements                                          21

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

OBLATION OF A WHITE BULL.

By lease dated 28th April, 1533, the Abbat of St. Edmund's Bury demised to John Wright, glazier,
and John Anable, pewterer, of Bury, the manor of Haberdon appurtenant to the office of Sacrist
in that monastery, with four acres in the Vynefeld, for twenty years, at the rent of 5l. 4s.
to the Sacrist; the tenants also to find a white bull every year of their term, as often as
it should happen that any gentlewoman, or any other woman, should, out of devotion, visit the
shrine of the glorious king and martyr of St. Edmund, and wish to make the oblation of a white
bull. (Dodsw. Coll. in Bibl. Bodl., vol. lxxi. f. 72.)

If we are to understand a white bull of the ancient race of wild white cattle, it may be inferred,
I suppose, that in some forest in the vicinity of Bury St. Edmund's they had not disappeared
in the first half of the sixteenth century. The wild cattle, probably indigenous to the great
Caledonian forest, seem to have become extinct in a wild state before the time of Leland, excepting
where preserved in certain ancient parks, as Chillingham Park, Northumberland, Gisburne Park
in Craven, &c., where they were, and in the former at all events still are, maintained in their
original purity of breed. They were preserved on the lands of some abbeys; for instance, by
the Abbats of Whalley, Lancashire.

Whitaker (History of Craven, p. 34.) mentions Gisburne Park as chiefly remarkable for a herd
of wild cattle, descendants of that indigenous race which once roamed in the great forests
of Lancashire, and they are said by some other writer to have been originally brought to Gisburne
from Whalley after the dissolution. One of the descendants of Robert de Brus, the founder of
Gainsborough Priory, is stated by Matthew Paris to have conciliated King John with a present
of white cattle. The woods of Chillingham Castle are celebrated at this day for the breed of
this remarkable race, by which they are inhabited; and I believe there are three or four other
places in which they are preserved.

In the form and direction of the horns, these famous wild white oxen seem to be living {2}
representatives of the race whose bones are found in a fossil state in England and some parts
of the Continent in the "diluvium" bone-caves, mixed with the bones of bears, hyenas, and other
wild animals, now the cotemporaries of the Bos Gour, or Asiatic Ox, upon mountainous slopes
of Western India. I have read that white cattle resembling the wild cattle of Chillingham exist
in Italy, and that it has been doubted whether our British wild cattle are descendants of an
aboriginal race, or were imported by ecclesiastics from Italy. But this seems unlikely, because
they were not so easily brought over as the Pope's bulls (the pun is quite unavoidable), and
were undoubtedly inhabitants of our ancient forests at a very early period.

However, my present object is only to inquire for any other instances of the custom of offering
a white bull in honour of a Christian saint. Perhaps some of your correspondents would elucidate
this singular oblation.

I am not able to refer to Col. Hamilton Smith's work on the mythology and ancient history of
the ox, which may possibly notice this kind of offering.

W. S. G.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEWSTEAD ABBEY.

The descent of property, like the family pedigree, occasionally exhibits the most extraordinary
disruptions; and to those who may be ignorant of the cause, the effect may appear as romance.
I have been particularly struck with the two interesting papers contained in the April number
of the Archæological Journal, having reference to the Newstead Abbey estate, formerly the property
of Lord Byron's family, which, amongst other matters, contain some severe remarks on the conduct
of one of its proprietors, the great uncle and predecessor of our great poet, and having reference
to dilapidation. Mr. Pettigrew, in his paper, states that--

    "Family differences, particularly during the time of the fifth Lord
    Byron, of eccentric and unsocial manners, suffered and even aided the
    dilapidations of time. The castellated stables and offices are,
    however, yet to be seen."

And Mr. Ashpitel adds that--

    "The state of Newstead at the time the poet succeeded to the estate is
    not generally known: 'the wicked lord' had felled all the noble oaks,
    destroyed the finest herds of deer, and, in short, had denuded the
    estate of everything he could. The hirelings of the attorney did the
    rest: they stripped away all the furniture, and everything the law
    would permit them to remove. The buildings on the east side were
    unroofed; the old Xenodochium, and the grand refectory, were full of
    hay; and the entrance-hall and monks' parlour were stable for cattle.
    In the only habitable part of the building, a place then used as a sort
    of scullery, under the only roof that kept out wet of all this vast
    pile, the fifth Lord Byron breathed his last; and to this inheritance
    the poet succeeded."

It is not necessary for me to refer to the lofty expression of the poet's feelings on such
his inheritance, nor to the necessity of his parting from the estate, which appears now to
be happily restored to its former splendour; but possessing some knowledge of a lamentable
fact, that neither Mr. Pettigrew nor Mr. Ashpitel appears to be aware of, I feel inclined to
soften the asperity of the reflections quoted; and palliate, although I may not justify, the
apparently reckless proceedings of the eccentric fifth Lord, as he is called. In the years
1796 and 1797, after finishing my clerkship, I had a seat in the chambers of the late Jas.
Hanson, Esq., an eminent conveyancer of Lincoln's Inn; and while with him, amongst other peers
of the realm who came to consult Mr. Hanson regarding their property, we had this eccentric
fifth Lord Byron, who apparently came up to town for the purpose, and under the most painful
and pitiable load of distress,--and I must confess that I felt for him exceedingly; but his
case was past remedy, and, after some daily attendance, pouring forth his lamentations, he
appears to have returned home to subside into the reckless operations reported of him. His
case was this:--Upon the marriage of his son, he, as any other father would do, granted a settlement
of his property, including the Newstead Abbey estate; but by some unaccountable inadvertence
or negligence of the lawyers employed, the ultimate reversion of the fee-simple of the property,
instead of being left, as it ought to have been, in the father as the owner of the estates,
was limited to the heirs of the son. And upon his death, and failure of the issue of the marriage,
the unfortunate father, this eccentric lord, found himself robbed of the fee-simple of his
own inheritance, and left merely the naked tenant for life, without any legal power of raising
money upon it, or even of cutting down a tree. It is so many years ago, that I now do not remember
the detail of what passed on these consultations, but it would appear, that if the lawyers
were aware of the effect of the final limitation, neither father nor son appear to have been
informed of it, or the result might have been corrected, and his lordship would probably have
kept up the estate in its proper order. Whether this case was at all a promoting cause of the
alteration of the law, I do not know; but, as the law now stands, the estate would revert back
to the father as heir of this son. This case made a lasting impression on me, and I once had
to correct a similar erroneous proposition in a large intended settlement; and I quoted this
unfortunate accident as an authority. Now, although this relation may not fully justify the
reckless waste that appears to have been committed, it certainly is a palliative. I do not
recollect whether {3} our fifth lord had any surviving daughter to provide for; but if he had,
his situation would be a still more aggravated position.

W. S. HASLEDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A CELEBRATED PASSAGE IN "ROMEO AND JULIET," ACT III. SC. 2.

Few passages in Shakspeare have so often and so ineffectually been "winnowed" as the opening
of the beautiful and passionate soliloquy of Juliet, when ardently and impatiently invoking
night's return, which was to bring her newly betrothed lover to her arms. Warburton says Phoebus
is the runaway. Steevens has a long argument to prove that Night is the runaway. Douce thought
Juliet herself was the runaway; and at a later period the Rev. Mr. Halpin, in a very elegant
and ingenious essay, attempts to prove that by the runaway we must understand Cupid.

MR. KNIGHT and MR. COLLIER have both of them adopted Jackson's conjecture of unawares, and
have admitted it to the honour of a place in the text, but MR. DYCE has pronounced it to be
"villainous;" and it must be confessed that it has nothing but a slight similarity to the old
word to recommend it.

The correctors of MR. COLLIER's folio having substituted--

 "That enemies eyes may wink,"

MR. DYCE, in his recent Few Notes, properly rejects that reading, and submits another conjecture
of his own, founded on the supposition that the word roving having been written illegibly,
roavinge was mistaken for run-awayes, and proposes to read--

 "That roving eyes may wink."

Every suggestion of MR. DYCE, certainly the most competent of living commentators on Shakspeare,
merits attention; but I cannot say that I think he has succeeded in either of his proposed
readings.

Monck Mason seems to have had the clearest notion of the requirements of the passage. He saw
that "the word, whatever the meaning of it might be, was intended as a proper name;" but he
was not happy in suggesting renomy, a French word with an English termination.

In the course of his note he mentions that Heath, "the author of the Revisal, reads 'Rumour's
eyes may wink;' which agrees in sense with the rest of the passage, but differs widely from
run-aways in the trace of the letters."

I was not conscious of having seen this suggestion of Heath's, when, in consequence of a question
put to me by a gentleman of distinguished taste and learning, I turned my thoughts to the passage,
and at length came to the conclusion that the word must have been rumourers, and that from
its unfrequent occurrence (the only other example of it at present known to me being one afforded
by the poet) the printer mistook it for runawayes; which, when written indistinctly, it may
have strongly resembled.

It fulfils the requirements of both metre and sense, and the words untalk'd of and unseen make
it nearly indisputable. I had at first thought it might be "rumorous eyes;" but the personification
would then be wanting. Shakspeare has personified Rumour in the Introduction to the Second
Part of King Henry IV.; and in Coriolanus, Act IV. Sc. 6., we have--

 "Go see this rumourer whipp'd."

I am gratified by seeing that I have anticipated your able correspondent, the REV. MR. ARROWSMITH,
in his elucidation of "clamour your tongues," by citing the same passage from Udall's Apophthegmes,
in my Vindication of the Text of Shakspeare, p. 79. It is a pleasure which must console me
for having subjected myself to his just animadversion on another occasion. If those who so
egregiously blunder are to be spared the castigation justly merited, we see by late occurrences
to what it may lead; and your correspondent, in my judgment, is conferring a favour on all
true lovers of our great poet by exposing pretension and error, from whatever quarter it may
come,--a duty which has been sadly neglected in some late partial reviews of MR. COLLIER's
"clever" corrector. MR. ARROWSMITH's communications have been so truly ad rem, that I think
I shall be expressing the sentiments of all your readers interested in such {4} matters, in
expressing an earnest desire for their continuance.

S. W. SINGER.

Mickleham.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE PASSAGE FROM "KING LEAR."

(Vol. vii., p. 592.)

Will you allow me to suggest to your ingenious Leeds correspondent (whose communications would
be read with only the more pleasure if they evinced a little more respect for the opinions
of others) that before he asserts the existence of a certain error which he points out in a
passage in King Lear to be "undeniable," it would be desirable that he should support this
improved reading by other passages from Shakspeare, or from cotemporary writers, in which the
word he proposes occurs? For my own part, I think A. E. B.'s suggestion well worthy of consideration,
but I cannot admit that it "demonstrates itself," or "that any attempt to support it by argument
would be absurd," for it would unquestionably strengthen his case to show that the verb "recuse"
was not entirely obsolete in Shakspeare's time. Neither can I admit that there is an "obvious
opposition between means and defects," the two words having no relation to each other. The
question is, which of two words must be altered; and at present I must own I am inclined to
put more faith in the authority of "the old corrector" than in A. E. B.

Having taken up my pen on this subject, allow me to remark upon the manner in which MR. COLLIER's
folio is referred to by your correspondent. I have carefully considered many of the emendations
proposed, and feel in my own mind satisfied that so great a number that, in the words of your
correspondent, demonstrate themselves, could not have been otherwise than adopted from some
authority. Even in the instance of the passage from Henry V., "on a table of green friese,"
which A. E. B. selects, I presume, as being especially absurd, I think "the old corrector"
right; although I had frequently cited Theobald's correction as particularly happy, and therefore
the new version was at first to me very distasteful. But, whatever opinion may be held as to
the value of the book, it is surely unbecoming to the discussion of a literary question to
indulge in the unsparing insinuations that have been thrown out on all sides respecting it.
I leave out of question the circumstance, that the long and great services of MR. COLLIER ought
to protect him at least from such unworthy treatment.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

P.S.--Since writing the above, I have seen MR. KEIGHTLEY's letter. I hope he will not deprive
the readers of "N. & Q." of the benefit of his valuable communications for the offences of
one or two. He might consider, first, that his own dignity would suffer least by letting them
pass by him "as the idle wind;" and, secondly, that some allowance should be made for gentlemen
who engage in controversy on a subject which, strangely enough, next to religion, seems to
be most productive of discord.

S. H.

 "I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
  I stumbled when I saw. Full oft 'tis seen
  Our means secure us; and our mere defects
  Prove our commodities."

Does not Shakspeare here use secure as a verb, in the sense "to make careless?" If so, the
passage would mean, "Our means," that is, our power, our strength, make us wanting in care
and vigilance, and too self-confident. Gloucester says, "I stumbled when I saw;" meaning, When
I had eyes I walked carelessly; when I had the "means" of seeing and avoiding stumbling-blocks,
I stumbled and fell, because I walked without care and watchfulness. Then he adds, "And our
mere defects prove our commodities." Our deficiencies, our weaknesses (the sense of them),
make us use such care and exertions as to prove advantages to us. Thus the antithesis is preserved.

How scriptural is the first part of the passage!

    "Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall."--1 Cor. x.
    12.

The second part is also scriptural:

    "My strength is made perfect in weakness."--2 Cor. xii. 9.

    "When I am weak then am I strong."--2 Cor. xii. 10.

In Timon of Athens we find secure used as verb "Secure thy heart."--Act II. Sc. 2.

Again, in Othello:

    "I do not so secure me in the error."--Act I. Sc. 3.

In Du Cange's Gloss. is the verb "Securare nudè pro securum reddere." In the "Alter Index sive
Glossarium" of Ainsworth's Dictionary is the verb "Securo, as ... to live carelessly." In the
"Verba partim Græca Latinè scripta, partim barbara," &c., is "Securo, as securum reddo."

The means of the hare in the fable for the race (that is, her swiftness) secured her; the defects
of the tortoise (her slowness) proved her commodity.

F. W. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS OF THE IRISH.

The following are extracts from a MS. volume of the sixteenth century, containing, inter alia,
notes of the Manners and Superstitions of the {5} Celtic Irish. Some of our readers may be
able to elucidate the obscure references:

 "The Irish men they have a farme,
  They kepp the bread,
    And make boyranne.
  They make butter and eatt molchan.
  And when they haue donne
    They have noe shamm.
  They burne the strawe and make loisbran.
  They eatt the flesh and drinke the broth,
  And when they have done they say
  Deo gracias is smar in Doieagh."

The next appears to be a scrap of a woman's song:

 "Birch and keyre 'tis wal veyre a spyunyng deye a towme.
  I am the geyest mayed of all that brought the somer houme.
  Justice Deyruse in my lopp, and senscal in my roame," &c.

John Devereux was Justiciary of the Palatinate Liberty of Wexford in the early part of Henry
VIII.'s reign. That Palatinate was then governed by a seneschal or "senscal." The justice would
seem to have been a gallant and sensual man, and the song may have been a little satirical.
Among the notes of the "Manners" of the Irish, it is declared that--

    "Sett them a farme--the grandfather, father, son, and they clayme it as
    their own: if not, they goe to rebellion."

Will any antiquary versed in Celtic customs explain whether this claim of possession grew out
of any Celtic usage of tenancy? And also point out authorities bearing upon the customs of
Celtic agricultural tenancy?

The next extract bears upon the communication at Vol. vii., p. 332.:

    "An Ultagh hath three purses. He runneth behind dore to draw his
    money: one cutteth the throte of another."

Now, was an Ultagh an Irish usurer or money-lender? Your correspondent at page 332. requests
information respecting Roger Outlaw. Sir William Betham, in a note to the "Proceedings against
Dame Alice Ugteler," the famous pseudo-Kilkenny witch, remarks that "the family of Utlagh were
seated in Dublin, and filled several situations in the corporation." Utlagh and Outlaw are
the same surnames. The named Utlagh also occurs in the Calendar of Printed Irish Patent Rolls.
William Utlagh, or Outlaw, was a banker and money-lender in Kilkenny, in the days of Edward
I. He was the first husband of the witch, and brother of Friar Roger Outlaw. In favour of the
latter, who was Prior of Kilmainham, near Dublin, a mandamus, dated 10 Edw. II., was issued
for arrears due to him since he was "justice and chancellor, and even lieutenant of the justiciary,
as well in the late king's time as of the present king's." He was appointed Lord Justice, or
deputy to the Lord Lieutenant, by patent dated Mar. 15, 9 Edw. III.

Many of the Irish records having been lost, your correspondent will do an obliging service
in pointing out the repository of the discovered roll. Perhaps steps might be taken for its
restoration.

H.

    [The following communication from our valued correspondent, the REV.
    H. T. ELLACOMBE, affords at once a satisfactory reply to H's Query, and
    a proof of the utility of "N. & Q."]

Roger Outlawe (Vol. vii., p. 559.).--Thanks to ANON. and others for their information.

As for "in viiij mense," I cannot understand it: I copied it as it was sent to me. B. Etii
was an error of the press for R. Etii, but I purposely avoided noticing it, because my very
first communication on the subject to "N. & Q.," under my own name and address, opened a very
pleasing correspondence, which has since led to the restoration of these Irish documents to
their congeners among the public records in Dublin; a gentleman having set out most chivalrously
from that city at his own cost to recover them, and I am happy to say he has succeeded; and
in the English Quarterly Magazine there will soon appear, I believe, an account of the documents
in question. It would not, therefore, become me to give in this place the explanation which
has been kindly communicated to me as to the meaning of the last conquest of Ireland; but I
have no doubt it will be explained in the English Quarterly.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Burial in an erect Posture.--In the north transept of Stanton Harcourt Church, Oxon, the burial-place
of the Harcourt family, is a circular slab of blue marble in the pavement, in which is inlaid
a shield of brass bearing the arms of Harcourt,--two bars, dimidiated with those of Beke; the
latter, when entire, forming a cros ancrée. The brass is not engraved, but forms the outline
of the shield and arms. It is supposed to be the monument of Sir John, son of Sir Richard Harcourt
and Margaret Beke, who died 1330. (See extracts from Lord Harcourt's "Account," in the Oxford
Architectural Guide, p. 178.) Tradition relates, if my memory does not mislead me, that the
knight was buried beneath this stone in an erect posture, but assigns no reason for this peculiarity.
Is the probability of this being the case supported by any, and what instances? Or does the
legend merely owe its existence to the circular form of the stone? {6} I think that its diameter
is about two feet. If MR. FRASER has not met with the information already, he may be interested,
with reference to his Query on "Dimidiation" (Vol. vii., p. 548.), in learning that the above
mentioned Margaret was daughter and coheiress of John Lord Beke of Eresby, who by his will,
made the 29th of Edw. I., devised the remainder of his arms to be divided between Sir Robert
de Willoughby and Sir John de Harcourt. And this may lead to the farther Query, whether dimidiation
was originally or universally resorted to in the case of coheiresses?

CHEVERELLS.

The Archbishop of Armagh's Cure for the Gout, 1571.--Extracted from a letter from Thomas Lancaster,
Archbishop of Armagh, to Lord Burghley, dated from Dublin, March 25, 1571:--

    "I am sorofull for that yo^r honor is greved w^{th} the goute, from the
    w^{ch} I beseche Almighty God deliver you, and send you health; and yf
    (it) shall please y^r honor to prove a medicen for the same w^{ch} I
    brought owt of Duchland, and have eased many w^{th} it, I trust in God
    it shall also do you good, and this it is. Take ij spaniel whelpes of
    ij dayes olde, scald them, and cause the entrells betaken out, but wash
    them not. Take 4 ounces brymstone, 4 ounces torpentyn, 1 ounce
    parmacete, a handfull nettells, and a quantyte of oyle of balme, and
    putt all the aforesayd in them stamped, and sowe them up and rost them,
    and take the dropes and anoynt you wheare your grefe is, and by God's
    grace yo^r honor shall fynd helpe."--From the Original in the State
    Paper Office.

SPES.

The last known Survivor of General Wolfe's Army in Canada.--In a recent number of the Montreal
Herald, mention is made of more than twenty persons whose ages exceed one hundred years. The
editor remarks that--

    "The most venerable patriarch now in Canada is Abraham Miller, who
    resides in the township of Grey, and is 115 years old. In 1758 he
    scaled the cliffs of Quebec with General Wolfe, so that his residence
    in Canada is coincident with British rule in the province. He is
    attached to the Indians, and lives in all respects like them."

W. W.

Malta.

National Methods of Applauding.--Clapping with the hands is going out of use in the United
States, and stamping with the feet is taking its place. When Mr. Combe was lecturing on phrenology
at the Museum building in Philadelphia twelve or thirteen years ago, he and his auditors were
much annoyed by the pedal applause of a company in the room above, who were listening to the
concerts of a negro band. Complaint was made to the authorities of the Museum Society; but
the answer was, that nothing could be done, as stamping of the feet was "the national method
of applauding."

The crying of "hear him! hear him!" during the delivery of a speech, is not in use in the United
States, as an English gentleman discovered who settled here a few years ago. He attended a
meeting of the members of the church to which he had attached himself, and hearing something
said that pleased him, he cried out "hear him! hear him!" Upon which the sexton came over to
him, and told him that, unless he kept himself quiet, he would be under the necessity of turning
him out of church.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

Curious Posthumous Occurrence.--If the following be true, though in ever so limited a manner,
it deserves investigation. Notwithstanding his twenty-three years' experience, the worthy grave-digger
must have been mistaken, unless there is something peculiar in the bodies of Bath people! But
if the face turns down in any instance, as asserted, it would be right to ascertain the cause,
and why this change is not general. It is now above twenty years since the paragraph appeared
in the London papers:--

    "A correspondent in the Bath Herald states the following singular
    circumstance:--'Having occasion last week to inspect a grave in one of
    the parishes of this city, in which two or three members of a family
    had been buried some years since, and which lay in very wet ground, I
    observed that the upper part of the coffin was rotted away, and had
    left the head and bones of the skull exposed to view. On inquiring of
    the grave-digger how it came to pass that I did not observe the usual
    sockets of the eyes in the skull, he replied that what I saw was the
    hind part of the head (termed the occiput, I believe, by anatomists),
    and that the face was turned, as usual, to the earth!!--Not exactly
    understanding his phrase 'as usual,' I inquired if the body had been
    buried with the face upwards, as in the ordinary way; to which he
    replied to my astonishment, in the affirmative, adding, that in the
    course of decomposition the face of every individual turns to the
    earth!! and that, in the experience of three-and-twenty years in his
    situation, he had never known more than one instance to the contrary.'"

A. B. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

DID CAPTAIN COOK FIRST DISCOVER THE SANDWICH ISLANDS?

In a French atlas, dated 1762, in my possession, amongst the numerous non-existing islands
laid down in the map of the Pacific, and the still more numerous cases of omission inevitable
at so early a period of Polynesian discovery, there is inserted an island styled "I. St. François,"
or "I. S. Francisco," which lies in {7} about 20° N. and 224° E. from the meridian of Ferro,
and, of course, almost exactly in the situation of Owhyhee. That this large and lofty group
may have been seen by some other voyager long before, is far from improbable; but, beyond a
question, Cooke was the first to visit, describe, and lay them down correctly in our maps.
Professor Meyen, however, as quoted in Johnston's Physical Atlas, mentions these islands in
terms which would almost lead one to suppose that he, the Professor, considered them to have
been known to the Spaniards in Anson's time or earlier, and that they had been regular calling
places for the galleons in those days! It is difficult to conceive such a man capable of such
a mistake; but if he did not suppose them to have been discovered before Cook's voyage in 1778,
his words are singularly calculated to deceive the reader on that point.

J. S. WARDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUPERSTITION OF THE CORNISH MINERS.

MR. KINGSLEY records a superstition of the Cornish miners, which I have not
seen noted elsewhere. In reply to the question, "What are the Knockers?" 1851, p.
    255.

Miners, as a class, are peculiarly susceptible of impressions of the unseen world, and the
superstitions entertained by them in different parts of the world would form a curious volume.
Is there any work on Cornish folk lore which alludes to this superstition respecting the Jews?
It would be useless, I dare say, to consult Carew, or Borlase; besides, I have not them by me.

Apropos to Cornish matters, a dictionary with a very tempting title was advertised for publication
two or three years ago:

    "Geslevar Cernewac, a Dictionary of the Cornish Dialect of the Cymraeg
    or ancient British Language, in which the words are elucidated by
    numerous examples from the Cornish works now remaining, with
    translations in English: and the synonyms in Welsh, Armoric, Irish,
    Gaelic, and Manx, so as to form a Celtic Lexicon. By the Rev. Robert
    Williams, M.A., Oxon., to be published in one vol. 4to. price 31s. 6d."

When shall we see this desirable lexicon? I was reminded of it the other day by hearing of
the subscriptions on foot for the publication of the great Irish dictionary, which the eminent
Irish scholars Messrs. O'Donovan and Curry have had in hand for many years.

EIRIONNACH.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Clerical Duel.--I shall be obliged to any correspondent who will supply the name of the courtier
referred to in the following anecdote, which is to be found in Burckhardt's Kirchen-Geschichte
der Deutschen Gemeinden in London, Tub. 1798, p. 77.

Anton Wilhelm Böhme, who came over as chaplain with Prince George of Denmark, officiated at
the German Chapel, St. James's, from the year 1705 to 1722. He was a favourite of Queen Anne,
and a friend of Isaac Watts. On one occasion he preached against adultery in a way which gave
great offence to one of the courtiers present, who conceived that a personal attack on himself
was intended. He accordingly sent a challenge to the preacher, which was without hesitation
accepted; and at the time and place appointed the chaplain made his appearance in full canonicals,
with his Bible in his hand, and gave the challenger a lecture which led to their reconciliation
and friendship.

I should like also to know whether there is any other authority for the story than that which
I leave quoted.

S. R. MAITLAND.

Gloucester

Pistol.--What is the date of the original introduction of this word into our vocabulary in
either of the senses in which it is equivocally used by Falstaff in 1 Henry IV., Act. V. Sc.
3.? In the sense of fire-arms, pistols seem to have been unknown by that name as late as the
year 1541; for the stat. 33 Hen. VIII. c. 6., after reciting the murders, &c. committed "with
cross-bows, little short hand-guns, and little hagbuts," prohibits the possession of "any hand-gun
other than such as shall be in the stock and gun of the length of one whole yard, or any hagbut
or demihake other than such as shall be in the stock and gun of the length of three quarters
of one yard." But throughout the act there is no mention of the word "pistol."

J. F. M.

Council of Laodicca, Canon 35.--Can any of your readers inform me whether, in any early work
on the Councils, the word angelos is in the text, without having angulos in the margin? If
so, oblige me by stating the editions.

CLERICUS (D).

{8}

Pennycomequick, adjoining Plymouth.--The Bath and West of England Agricultural Society held
their recent annual meeting here. Will any of your correspondents oblige me with the derivation
of this remarkable word?

R. H. B.

Park the Antiquary.--In a note to the third volume (p. lxxiii.) of the Grenville Correspondence
the following passage: "Barker has printed a second note, which Junius is supposed to have
written to Garrick, upon the authority of Park the antiquary, who states that he found it in
a cotemporary newspaper," &c. This is not strictly correct. Barker says (p. 190.), "The letter
was found in a copy of Junius belonging to [Query, which had belonged to?] T. Park, &c. He
had [Query, it is presumed?] cut it out of a newspaper; but unfortunately has omitted to furnish
the date of the newspaper." [Query, How then known to be cotemporary?] The difference is important;
but where is the copy containing this letter? By whom has it been seen? By whom and when first
discovered? Where did Barker find the story recorded? When and where first printed?

P. T. A.

Honorary D.C.L.'s.--It was mentioned in a report of proceedings at the late Installation, that
the two royal personages honoured with degrees, having been doctored by diploma, would be entitled
to vote in Convocation,--a privilege not possessed by the common tribe of honorary D.C.L.'s.

Can you inform me whether Dr. Johnson had, or ever exercised, the right referred to in virtue
of his M.A. degree (conferred on the publication of the Dictionary), or of the higher academical
dignity to which his name has given such a world-wide celebrity?

CANTABRIGIENSIS.

Battle of Villers en Couché.--Some of your correspondents, better versed than myself in military
matters, will doubtless render me assistance by replying to this Query. Where can I find a
copious and accurate account of the battle, or perhaps I should rather say skirmish, of Villers
en Couché? If I am rightly informed, it must be one of the most remarkable actions on record,
when the comparative numbers of the troops engaged are taken into consideration. We have, as
an heirloom in our family, a medal won by an officer on that occasion: it is suspended from
a red and white ribbon, and is inscribed thus:

   "FORTITUDINE
  VILLERS EN COUCHÉ.
      24th APRIL,
        1794."

I do not remember to have read any account of the battle; but, as I have heard from the lips
of one who gained his information from the officer before alluded to, the particulars were
these:--General Mansell, with a force consisting of two squadrons of the 15th Hussars, and
one squadron of the German Legion, two hundred and seventy-two in all, charged a body of the
French army, ten thousand strong. The French were formed in a hollow square: but five times,
as I am informed, did our gallant troops charge into and out of the square, till the French,
struck with a sudden panic, retreated with a loss of twelve hundred men. I am desirous of authenticating
this almost incredible account, and shall be thankful for such information as may guide me
to an authoritative record of the action in question.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON, B.A.

Dr. Misaubin.--Will any of your numerous correspondents give me any information, or refer me
to any work where I can find it, respecting Dr. Misaubin, who appears to have practised in
London during the first half of the last century? What was the peculiarity of his practice?

GRIFFIN.

Kemble, Willet, and Forbes.--What are the two concluding lines of an epigram published ten
or twelve years ago, beginning,--

 "The case of Kemble, Willet, and Forbes,
  Much of the Chancellor's time absorbs;
  If I were the Chancellor I should tremble
  At the mention of Willet, Forbes, and Kemble"?

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Piccalyly.--The ornament, somewhat between a hood, a scarf, and an armlet, worn hanging over
the right shoulder of judges and serjeants at law, is called a piccalyly. What is the origin
of this peculiarity of judicial costume, what are the earliest examples of it, and what its
etymology?

NO JUDGE.

