THE SURGEON'S ASSISTANT.

I.

The sickness of the nation not being unto death, we now begin to number its advantages. They
will not all be numbered by this generation; and as for story-tellers, essayists, letter-writers,
historians, and philosophers, if their "genius" flags in half a century with such material
as hearts, homes, and battle-fields beyond counting afford them, they deserve to be drummed
out of their respective regiments, and banished into the dominion of silence and darkness,
forever to sit on the borders of unfathomable ink-pools, minus pen and paper, with fool's-caps
on their heads.

I know of a place which you may call Dalton, if it must have a name. At the beginning of our
war,--for which some true spirits thank Almighty God,--a family as wretched as Satan wandering
up and down the earth could wish to find lived there, close beside the borders of a lake which
the Indians once called--but why should not your fancy build the lowly cottage on whatsoever
green and sloping bank it will? Fair as you please the outside world may be,--waters pure as
those of Lake St. Sacrament, with islands on their bosom like those of Horicon, and shores
beautifully wooded as those of Lake George,--but what delight will you find in all the heavenly
mansions, if love be not there?

"I'll enlist," said the master of this mansion of misery in the midst of the garden of delight,
one day.

"I would," replied his wife.

They spoke with equal vigor, but neither believed in the other. The instant the man dropped
the book he had been reading, he was like Samson with his hair shorn, for his wife couldn't
tell one letter from another; and when she saw him sit down on the stone wall which surrounded
their potato-field, overgrown with weeds, she marched out boldly to the corner of the wood-shed,
where never any wood was, and attacked him thus:--

"S'pose you show fight awhile in that potato-patch afore you go to fight Ribils. Gov'ment don't
need you any more than I do. May be it'll find out getting ain't gaining!"

She had no answer. The man was thinking, when she interrupted him, as she was always doing,
that, if he could secure the State and town bounty, that would be some provision for the woman
and child. As for himself, he was indifferent as to where he was sent, or how soon. But if
he went away, they might look for him to come again. Gabriel's trumpet, he thought, would be
a more welcome sound than his wife's voice.

He enlisted. The bounties paid him were left in the hands of a trusty neighbor, and were to
be appropriated to the supply of his family's needs; and he went away along with a boat-load
of recruits,--his own man no longer. Even his wife noticed the change in him, from the morning
when he put on his uniform and began to obey orders, for she had time to notice. Several days
elapsed after enlistment before the company's ranks were complete, and the captain would not
report at head-quarters, he said, until his own townsfolk had supplied the number requisite.

Even his wife noticed the change, I said; for, contrary to what is usual and expected, she
was not the first to perceive that the slow and heavy step had now a spring in it, and that
there was a light in his clouded eyes. She supposed the new clothes made the difference.

Nearly a year had passed away, and this woman was leaning over the rail fence which surrounded
a barren field, and listening, while she leaned, to the story of Ezra Cramer, just home from
the war. She listened well, even eagerly, to what he had to tell, and seemed moved by the account
in ways various as pride and indignation.

"I wish I had him here!" she said, when he had come to the end of his story,--the story of
her husband's promotion.

Ezra looked at her, and thought of the pretty girl she used to be, and wondered how it happened
that such a one could grow into a woman like this. The vindictiveness of her voice accorded
well with her person,--expressed it. Where were her red cheeks? What had become of her brown
hair? She was once a free one at joking with, and rallying the young men about; but now how
like a virago she looked! and her tongue was sharp as a two-edged sword.

Ezra was sorry that he had taken the trouble to ascertain in the village where Nancy Elkins
lived. Poor fellow! While enduring the hardships of the past year, his imagination had transformed
all the Dalton women into angels, and the circuit of that small hamlet had become to his loving
thought as the circuit of Paradise.

Some degree of comprehension seemed to break upon him while he stood gazing upon her, and he
said: "O well, Miss Nancy, he's got his hands full, and besides he didn't know I was coming
home so quick. I didn't know it myself till the last minute. He would 'a' sent some message,--course
he would!"

"I guess there ain't anything to hender his writing home to his folks," she answered, unappeased
and unconvinced. "Other people hear from the war. There's Mynders always a-writing and sending
money to the old folks, and that's the difference."

"We've been slow to get our pay down where we was," said Ezra. "It's been a trouble to me all
the while, having nothing to show for the time I was taking from father."

The woman looked at the young fellow who had spoken so seriously, and her eyes and her voice
softened.

"Nobody would mind about your not sending money hum, Ezra. They'd know you was all right. Such
a hard-working set as you belong to! You're looking as if you wondered what I was doing here
'n this lot. I'm living in that shanty! Like as not I'll have its pictur' taken, and sent to
my man. Old Uncle Torry said we might have it for the summer; and I expect the town was glad
enough to turn me and my girl out anywhere. They won't do a thing towards fixing the old hut
up. Say 't ain't worth it. We can't stay there in cold weather. Roof leaks like a sieve. If
he don't send me some money pretty quick, I'll list myself, and serve long enough to find him
out, see 'f I don't."

At this threat, the soldier, who knew something about WAR, straightened himself, and with a
cheery laugh limped off towards the road. "I'll see ye ag'in, Miss Nancy, afore you start,"
said he, looking back and nodding gayly at her. Things weren't so bad as they seemed about
her, he guessed. He was going home, and his heart was soft. Happiness is very kind; but let
it do its best it cannot come very near to misery.

Nancy stood and watched the young man as he went, commenting thus: "Well, he's made a good
deal out of 'listing, any way." His pale face and his hurt did not make him sacred in her sight.

She was speaking to herself, and not to her little daughter, who, when she saw her mother talking
to a soldier, ran up to hear the conversation. A change that was wonderful to see had passed
over the child's face, when she heard that her father had been promoted from the ranks. The
bald fact, unilluminated by a single particular, seemed to satisfy her. She hadn't a question
to ask. Her first thought was to run down to the village and tell Miss Ellen Holmes, who told
her, not long ago, so proud and wonderful a story about her brother's promotion.

If it were not for this Jenny, my story would be short. Is it not for the future we live? For
the children the world goes on.

