Another important sign of the times, as evincing our advancing civilization, is the revival
of art in our midst. In the midst of all our bustle and toil and eager strife for gain, there
has ever been a something wanting to the completeness of our life, a something to fill and
satisfy that yearning of the soul for æsthetic beauty, which is at once an evidence of its
progress and its capacity for diviner things. Too long have we been absorbed by the desires
of our animal nature, in whose pursuit there is little gratification to that finer portion
of our inner selves which will not be silenced by anything short of the deepest degradation.
The people--the great people--need something--something higher, more ennobling, more tender--to
fill the vacant spot in their hearts and homes, to preserve the balance between the animal
and the spiritual part of their lives, and to clothe their surroundings with a higher and holier
significance than can arise from the events and associations of the work-day life. In art the
missing link is found, and whether it be the simple ballad in the evening circle or the modest
print that graces the humble cottage walls--and the humbler the habitation the deeper the manifestation,
because the more touching--it is but the expression of the people's appreciation of the needs,
the capacities, and the holier aspirations of the better part of humanity. Hence the revival
of art has a deep significance; it is something more than a forced, an exotic, and hence ephemeral
growth; it is the manifestation of the awakening of the people to the æsthetic sentiment; it
is the actual result of the intellectual and moral needs of society; it is in itself the striving
of a great people for the beautiful and true. And as such it has a broad and deep foundation
in the godlike in human nature, which shall insure not only its permanence but its progress
as long as the good and the true have any influence whatever upon our society. That we have
had, until a comparatively late period, no art among us, is the result not of a lack of capacity
to comprehend the beautiful, but of the intense and all-absorbing passion for gain which has
so nearly proved the bane of our society by shutting out the consideration of better things:
that art has so suddenly revived in our midst is a proof that, so far from having our humanity,
our political position, our very civilization itself swallowed up in the love of the almighty
dollar, as has been predicted of us by foreign wiseacres, we have been aroused to our danger
and to a true appreciation of the better part of existence; which is itself an evidence of
the elasticity and the recuperative energy of our social system.

In literature our progress is not so flattering. In its effects upon civilization a literature
can only be judged by that portion of it which touches the popular heart, which descends to
the humblest fireside, and is most eagerly sought after by the ploughboy and the operative.
All other, however brilliant it may be--and the more brilliant or profound the farther it is
generally removed from the minds of the masses--is to them but as the stars of a winter night,
cold and distant, radiating little warmth to the longing soul, too far away to awaken more
than a faintly reflected admiration. He who said, 'Give me to write the songs of a people,
and I care not who makes their laws,' touched the tender spot in the great heart of humanity;
he was a sage in that truest of philosophy, the study of human nature. Though we have our princes
in every branch of literature, who are the result of and an honor to our civilization, yet
for their own results in moulding the tastes, the habits, and the intellects of the common
people, in contributing to their advancement, they fall far below the efforts of the veriest
penny-a-liner. It is a lamentable fact of our society that while the more solid literature
scarcely pays, the flashiest of so-called 'flash literature' brings down the golden shower.
The writer of the lowest possible order of literary productions is enriched, and his name is
familiar in the remotest corners of the land, while our monarchs of literature are oftentimes
poverty stricken and comparatively obscure; and that because the latter is confined to a comparatively
small audience and patronage, while the former speaks to and for the masses; and, as a natural
consequence, the former controls the tastes of the greater portion of the reading community,
and that too for anything but good, since he reaps his golden harvest by pandering to the basest
of appetites, the lowest of sensibilities and sympathies; thus retarding rather than accelerating
the intellectual advancement of the people, this being his material interest.

And how great is the responsibility of those who thus speak to the ear of the simple and the
unlearned! how terrible the retribution they are heaping up for themselves in the great hereafter,
for thus prostituting talent which might be made eminently useful in leading the minds of the
common people to the highest and noblest of truths; in making purer and better in every sense
of the word! The idea that the province of literature, even of fiction, is simply to amuse,
is exploded in the light of advancing civilization. Every writer has a higher mission, and
accordingly as he discharges the duty which his faculty lays upon him, is he true or false
to the true end of his existence, a success or a failure in the world of intellect and morality.
The mission of all literature is to make mankind both wiser and better, and the writer who
fails to appreciate and act upon this truth is worse than a useless cumberer of society; he
is a curse to his age, and, however great his present fame, will most assuredly be forgotten
with the passing away of his generation. For does not all human effort resolve itself into
this one thing? Is there any work which we call good or great, or even important, which is
not intended in some way to benefit mankind? Else we were but butterflies, and our works but
mists. In the past ages the world has not seen and appreciated this fact; but the world of
to-day does appreciate it, and will certainly set every worker upon his proper pedestal, high
or low, according as his efforts have conduced or not to the welfare of humanity.

Present reform in this particular is not to be looked for; it must be external rather than
internal. Could the whole mass of light literature be at once and forever swept out of existence,
the people would soon acquire a love of solid reading as ardent as that which now pervades
the lower stratum of our society for 'yellow-covered' trash. For the love of knowledge is innate,
and the people would necessarily seek for and find amusement in such reading as could not fail
to instruct and educate, to revive this love of knowledge, and fan it into an ardent flame.
But this cannot be done. The people will ever seek that reading which is most congenial to
their present tastes and habits, and there will ever be found a legion of those who are eager
to supply this sort of mental pabulum--if it can be so called--for the sake of the golden equivalent.
For these reasons, the literature of the common people must ever follow, not lead, their civilization;
it must continue to be the outward and visible sign of their progress, instead of the inward
and spiritual grace by which it is pervaded and sustained; and reform must be inaugurated and
consummated in those other influences which tend to mould the moral man, and which must be
so guided as to destroy all these low and grovelling tastes, by lifting the man into a higher
plane of being, in which the animal shall be wholly subservient to the spiritual. Hence the
province of the true philanthropist lies in those other paths which we have pointed out, rather
than in this, since in them lies the prospect of success whose fruits will in this most clearly
appear.

It is a significant fact that the foreign view points to but two blots upon our society, and
that foreign detractors harp continually upon these, and these alone, as evidences of the backwardness
of our civilization--the institution of slavery and the riots which occasionally disgrace our
large cities. For in the light of the facts and experience of to-day, such a position is simply
a yielding of the whole question. When it is considered that the few riots with which we are
afflicted--few in comparison with those which so often convulse European society--are almost
invariably incited and sustained by our foreign population, and that portion of it, too, latest
arrived upon our shores, it will be seen with what injustice the evil is laid at the door of
American society. It is, in fact, nothing else than the outbreak of the long-accumulated and
long-suppressed discontent and misery of European lands, which, for the first time for centuries,
finds vent upon the shores of a land of political and social liberty--a reaction of the springs
long held down by the iron hand of tyranny--a violent restoration of that natural elasticity
which had so nearly been destroyed by ages of social degradation. The mob law, the frequent
resort to the pistol and the bowie knife, and the universal social recklessness of our own
citizens of the Southern States, is the effect of the institution of slavery, and falls within
the discussion of that question, with the disappearance of which they must inevitably depart.

Were African slavery a permanent feature in our midst, the argument against our civilization
would be unanswerable. But it has maintained its ground in spite of, rather than as the result
of or in connection with the spirit of our institutions. It has hitherto been suffered to exist
as an acknowledged evil, solely because the disastrous results attending its sudden abolition
have been justly feared as greater than any which could at present arise from its continuance.
Yet at no period has the American people ceased to look forward to some future time when it
might safely be rooted out. Our faith has ever been strong, and our confidence in the ultimate
triumph of the right unshaken. That time has come. The present war, from whose inauguration
the question of slavery abolition was--on our part, at least--entirely absent, has given the
opportunity which our people have not failed to seize. To crush out the rebellion without meddling
with the institutions of the South was at first the main spring of the war; fiat justitia,
ruat coelum, is now the voice of the whole people; and the very fact that the nation has so
earnestly taken hold of the work, so sternly determined to sacrifice everything but its existence
to the demolition of this bloody god, is of itself an evidence of the purity of our civilization.
We have not been dead to the principles of truth and justice involved in this question; we
have been but biding our time, plainly seeing and carefully noting the direful effects of slavery
upon our social organization, and 'heaping up wrath against the day of wrath.' And now, with
the blessing of God upon our efforts, the present war will not cease until the death blow is
given to the accursed institution with all its attendant evils. We, as a people, are fully
aroused and sternly determined henceforth to let nothing stand in the way of our social advancement,
however time-honored and cherished may have been the obstacle. And when these evils have all
been swept away, as they assuredly will be, we shall stand forth among the nations in all the
glory of a pure and enlightened civilization, and challenge the world to produce a nobler record,
to point out a happier, more prosperous, more truly progressive people.

With the close of the present war will arise another important question, bearing not less strongly
than that of slavery upon our ultimate civilization. The slaveholding States are to be, in
a measure, repeopled. The tide of immigration which has so long and so steadily streamed toward
the West will be for some time diverted to the fertile plantations of the South. Not only the
soldiers of the North, to whom the war has opened what has hitherto been to them almost a terra
incognita, will seek new homes within the sunny climes; but the flood of foreign immigration,
which, upon the vindication of our national integrity and power, will quickly double itself
in comparison with that of former years, and sweep toward this new and inviting field; and
the distinctive feature of Southern society--of so-called 'Southern chivalry'--will soon be
swallowed up in the torrent. And what then shall we have to fill its place? The crude ideas
of foreign tyros in the school of freedom, the conflicting religious, social, and political
theories of European revolutionists, the antagonistic policies of a hundred different nationalities.
All this, in connection with the difficulties arising from the freeing of so large an African
population, will prove a severe trial to our national civilization, and call for the exercise
of the profoundest wisdom, the most careful discrimination, and the most patient forbearance
on the part of our rulers and statesmen. And most assuredly the times will themselves produce
the men most fitted for the care of such interests and the decision of such questions. Though
there is need of the firm hand, the utmost watchfulness, and the strongest exertion on the
part of every citizen as well as statesman, it is not to be feared that the result will in
the end be disastrous to our progress. For the genius of the American people was never yet
at fault. We have handled similar questions before; we are handling a more important one now,
and our capabilities and our power of development are such that we need not fear but that we
shall be enabled to cope with the exigencies of the future. That genius which has built up
a powerful nation here in the wilderness, which has developed to such a degree the resources
of the laud and the capacities of the people, which has conceived and executed in so short
a time such a social and moral revolution, has in it too much of the godlike to suffer the
work to fall through from any incapacity to deal with the legitimate consequences of its action.
The power to inaugurate and carry through the work necessarily implies the capacity to establish
and render permanent its results, to guide the ship when the storm is past. It will find the
ways and means; the times themselves will develop new truths, which will make the task less
difficult than it seems to us of to-day. Such is the feeling of the people; and this same noble
faith and confidence in our own capacities, this turning a deaf ear to all the possibilities
of failure, and looking with a never-failing trust, a soul-felt faith, to the triumph of our
cause and of our civilization, is our greatest strength, while it is, at the same time, a conclusive
evidence that we are on the high road of true progress, that our civilization is not a thing
of yesterday, to-day, or to-morrow, but of the eternal ages.

APHORISM.--NO. X.

'It is a frequent result of poverty to make men rich--a common curse of wealth to make them
poor.' Poverty, making us feel our dependence upon God, almost compels us to an acquaintance
with Him--this leads us to accept Him as the one Infinite Benefactor; and so gives us wealth
that can never fail: but riches, by encouraging our natural love of independence, is too apt
to keep us away from our Heavenly Father, and thus plunge us into such poverty as admits of
no actual relief. In this view there is something to hope for in the present distresses of
our country. Rarely have so many people felt that their dependence must be upon the mercy of
God; and rarely, if ever, have so many, with such earnestness, appealed to the Father of all
on the occasion of a widespread calamity. This must result in a closer union with the Infinite
Giver, and thus in a great increase of true riches.

THE ENGLISH PRESS.

V.

How had The Times been getting on all these years? Slowly but surely. At first, as has been
already stated, feeling its way with difficulty amid a host of obstacles, long-established
and successful rivals, Government prosecutions abroad, and personal crotchets and peculiarities
at home. John Walter, its founder, retired from the management of the paper in 1803, and died
in 1812, having lived to see his literary offspring grow up into a strong young giant, with
thews and sinews growing fuller and firmer every day, tossing his weighty arms in every direction,
but never aimlessly; and with his vigorous feet firmly planted, expanded chest, and head boldly
erect, fearlessly standing forward in the very first rank of the champions of freedom. Mr.
Walter's son John succeeded him in the management in 1803; and, under his abler and more enlightened
administration, the paper rapidly increased in importance. He opened his columns to all comers,
and whenever any communication appeared to possess more than average ability he endeavored
to engage the writer of it as a regular contributor. He perfected the system of reporting,
and the reports in The Times soon began to be fuller and more exact perhaps even than Perry's
in The Chronicle. He especially turned his attention to the foreign department of his journal,
and no trouble or expense was spared in obtaining intelligence from abroad. This had been one
of the strong points with the elder Walter, and he had always striven to be the first to communicate
important foreign news to the world--thus, for instance, The Times was the first newspaper
which announced the execution of Marie Antoinette. This element was now greatly strengthened
and developed, correspondents were engaged in all the chief cities of Europe, and, as time
progressed, in other quarters of the world as well, letters from whom appeared as regularly
and as early as the post-office authorities would allow; and a regular system of expresses
from the Continent was organized. But the Government, who saw and felt the growing greatness
of The Times, placed every possible hinderance in the way--it was not then the custom for the
Premier to invite the editor to dinner--and the letters and foreign packages were delayed in
every possible manner--the machinery of the custom house being even employed for that purpose--in
order that the Government organs might at least get the start. But fair means and foul alike
failed to win over the young journalistic athlete to the ministerial side, and this illiberal
and selfish policy was at length compelled to give in, beaten at all points. But there was
one thing which was destined to give The Times supremacy, at which the younger Walter began
to work soon after the reins of power fell into his hands--and that was steam. Great strides
had been made in the art of printing. The first metal types ever cast in England were those
of Caxton, in 1720. Stereotype printing had been first suggested by William Ged, of Edinburgh,
in 1735, and was perfected and brought into general use by Tillock, in 1779. The printing machine
had been originated by Nicholson, in 1790, and an improved form of it, made of iron, the invention
of Earl Stanhope, was in general use in 1806. Thomas Martyn, a compositor of The Times, invented
some further modifications, and was aided by the younger Walter. Owing, however, to the violent
opposition of his fellow workmen, the experiments were carried on under the greatest secrecy;
but the elder Walter could not be induced to countenance them, and consequently nothing came
of them. In 1814, Koenig and Bauer, two German printers, conceived the idea of printing by
steam, and the younger Walter, now by his father's death permitted to do as he liked, entered
warmly into their project. The greatest silence and mystery was observed, but the employés
of The Times somehow or other obtained an inkling of what was going on, and, foreseeing a reduction
in their numbers, vowed the most terrible vengeance upon everybody connected with the newfangled
invention. Spite of their threats, however, the necessary machinery was quietly prepared and
erected, and one morning, before day had broken, Mr. Walter called his printers together, and
informed them that that day's issue was struck off by steam. This ever-memorable day in the
history of journalism was Monday, the 28th of November, 1814. Loud murmurs and threats were
heard among the workmen, and burning down the whole affair was the least thing suggested; but
Mr. Walter had taken precautions, and, showing his work people that he was prepared to meet
any outbreak on their part, no violence was attempted. Since then The Times has been regularly
printed by steam. Various improvements in steam machinery have from time to time been patented,
and Hoe's gigantic machines--the production of that country the most prolific of all the world
in useful inventions, America--seemed to show that the limit of the application of steam to
printing had been reached. But a machine still more wonderful--a machine that possessed all
the skill of human intelligence and ten times the quickness of human fingers--a machine for
composing by steam, was shown at the International Exhibition in London, in 1862. Printing
by steam at once raised the circulation of The Times enormously, as was but natural, from the
facilities which it afforded of a rapid multiplication of copies; and under the editorship
of Thomas Barnes it soon reached the first place in journalism. But Walter himself was not
idle, and was always on the lookout for fresh and rising talent. On one occasion, being at
a church in the neighborhood of his country seat in Berkshire, he was very much struck by the
sermon which was preached by a new curate. After the service he went into the vestry, and had
a long conversation with the preacher, the result of which was that he told him that a curacy
was not a very enviable position, and that he would do much better to go to London, and write
for The Times at a salary of £1,000 a year. It is needless to add that the offer was not declined.

In 1817, The Literary Gazette was brought out by William Jordan, as an organ of literature
and the fine arts, and, until The Athenæum was established, it was without a rival of any consequence.
But its circulation declined, and, after Jordan's death, dwindled down to a very small number.
In 1862 its name was changed to The Parthenon, or rather, to speak more correctly, The Parthenon
arose as a new publication from the ashes of The Literary Gazette. But change of name did not
produce change of circumstances, and, before many numbers had appeared, The Parthenon was privately
offered for sale at the low sum of £100, but, failing to meet with a purchaser, it gave up
the ghost early in 1863. In 1817, Lord Sidmouth made a terrific onslaught upon the press. One
result of this circular and the vigorous prosecutions which ensued was that William Cobbett
for a while gave up printing his Political Register, and went away to America, from whence
he did not return for two years. He stated his reasons for adopting this course in his paper,
as follows:

