This day shall be devoted to the virtue of mortification. Put away the comforts of eating and
drinking, the extravagance of living, personal luxuries. Live simply and like a poor man. Be
simple in dress, but be well dressed. Be abstemious at your table. Especially guard against
over indulgence in drink. Abstemiousness in drink is a very commendable virtue. Deny yourself
many things that are unnecessary. Do not yield to all the promptings of the appetite. Be temperate.

PRAYER TO OBTAIN THE GRACE OF MORTIFICATION.

Thou hast commanded the mortification of the flesh from the beginning, O Lord. From the beginning,
the desires of the flesh have been the bane of a good life. When shall Thy grace, O Lord, inspire
me with some degree of that firmness and faithful adherence to Thee. Suffer not my heart to
be overcome by that inconstancy which is so natural to it, nor allow my life to be a perpetual
succession of evil practices and infidelities. Grant that my heart may be all Thine, at all
times and forever. And that by mortification I may merit eternal happiness.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

EIGHTH DAY.--PRAYER.

We must pray all the time. Every act must be a prayer. The spirit of prayer must be in our
whole Christian life. We must pray if we want to do anything great in the spiritual life. A
life without prayer is a most barren period of time. Prayer is the intimate converse with God.
Our Saint was always intimately united to God in prayer. Blessed Vianney never ceased praying.

PRAYER FOR A TRUE SPIRIT OF DEVOTION.

How sweet, O Lord, to breathe only Thy love and to say to Thee with my whole heart: My God
and my all! Grant that words may enter into my soul! do then, impress them upon my mind and
my heart so that I may understand and practice them. Let me be devoted to prayer. Make it a
delight to converse with Thee. Let me pray for everything I need and before every undertaking,
so that with prayer every work may begin and with prayer be happily ended. Thou art my Saviour.
May I possess Thee in prayer here on earth and mayest Thou be my portion for all eternity in
Heaven.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

NINTH DAY.--DEVOTION TO MARY.

On the last day of the novena we must try to learn and begin to cultivate a devotion, which
appeals to the heart of every Catholic, that is, the devotion to the Mother of God. What is
a Catholic life without love to Mary! How dark and dreary is a life without the spiritual consolation
of the Communion of the Saints! In short, have a great devotion to Mary. Pray to her with confidence
like one that has a right to be heard and a right to address her. Love Mary with the sincerest
affection. Let not a day pass without having said a prayer to her. Say your beads every day.
Wear the scapular in her honor. Go to Confession and Holy Communion on her feast days. Perform
many little acts of religion from the motive of love to the Blessed Virgin.

PRAYER TO MARY.

My dear Saviour, Jesus Christ, Son of the Virgin Mary, grant me the grace to love Thy mother.
This grace is such a distinction, a grace of salvation, which I must have by all means. Pray
for us, O holy Mother of God, that we may be worthy of the promises of Christ.

[Litany and prayers to Blessed Vianney.]

PRAYER TO BLESSED VIANNEY.

I thank Thee, my God, for the grace of this novena to Thy blessed servant, Vianney. I beg of
Thee, first, that I may learn the singular virtues of this blessed man--his piety, mortification,
poverty, love of God and our neighbor. Let me become, in this way, a useful member of the human
family. I have, O Lord, prayed to Thy blessed servant Vianney, that he may pray for me and
my intention. (Here mention the intention.)

