A permanent shaft, similar to the river shafts in Long Island City, was constructed at Manhattan
over each pair of tunnels. Each shaft was located across two lines, with its longer axis transverse
to the tunnels. Plate XIII shows their relative positions. They were divided equally by a reinforced
concrete partition wall transverse to the line of the tunnels. On completion, the western portions
were turned over to the contractor for the cross-town tunnels for his exclusive use.

South Shaft.--Work on the south shaft was started on June 9th, 1904, with the sinking of a
16 by 16-ft. test pit in the center of the south half of the south shaft, which reached disintegrated
rock at a depth of about 20 ft.

Starting in August, the full shaft area, 74 by 40 ft., was taken out in an open untimbered
cut to the rock, and a 20 by 50-ft. shaft was sunk through the rock to tunnel grade, leaving
a 10 or 12-ft. berm around it. (Fig. 1, Plate LXX.)

The erection of the caisson was started, about the middle of January, on the rock berm surrounding
the 20 by 50-ft. shaft and about 15 ft. below the surface. Fig. 3, Plate LXIV, shows the cutting
edge of the caisson assembled. The excavation of the small shaft had shown that hard rock and
only a very small quantity of water would be encountered, and that the caisson need be sunk
only a short distance below the rock surface. Therefore, no working-chamber roof was provided,
the caisson was built to a height of only 40 ft., and the circular openings were permanently
closed.

The assembling of the caisson took 2-1/2 months, and on April 2d lowering was started. Inverted
brackets were bolted temporarily to the cutting-edge stiffening brackets, and the sinking was
carried on by methods similar to those used at Long Island. The jacks and blocking supporting
the caisson are shown in Fig. 4, Plate LXIV. As soon as the cutting edge entered the rock,
which was drilled about 6 in. outside of the neat lines, the space surrounding the caisson
was back-filled with clay and muck to steady it and provide skin friction. As the friction
increased, the walls were filled with concrete, and as the caisson slowly settled, it was checked
and guided by blocking. The cutting edge finally came to rest 31 ft. below mean high water,
the sinking having been accomplished in about seven weeks, at an average rate of 0.50 ft. per day.

The final position of the cutting edge in relation to its designed position is shown in Table 1.

A berm about 4 ft. wide was left at the foot of the caisson below which the rock was somewhat
fissured and required timbering. The cutting edge of the caisson was sealed to the rock with
grout on the outside and a concrete base to the caisson walls on the inside, the latter resting
on the 4-ft. berm. Following the completion of the shaft, the permanent sump was excavated
to grade for use during construction.

North Shaft.--The north shaft had to be sunk in a very restricted area. The east side of the
caisson cleared an adjoining building at one point by only 1 ft., while the northwest corner
was within the same distance of the east line of First Avenue. As in the case of the Long Island
shafts, the steelwork for only the lower 40 ft. was ordered at the start. This height was completely
assembled before sinking was begun. The caisson was lowered in about the same manner as those
previously described. The bearing brackets for the hydraulic jacks were attached, as at the
south shaft, to the inside of the cutting-edge brackets. The east side of the caisson was in
contact with the foundations of the neighboring building, while the west side was in much softer
material. As a consequence, the west side tended to settle more rapidly and thus throw the
caisson out of level and position. To counteract that tendency, it was necessary to load the
east wall heavily with cast-iron tunnel sections, in addition to the concrete filling in the walls.

Soon after sinking was begun, a small test shaft was sunk to a point below the elevation of
the top of the tunnels. The rock was found to be sound, hard, and nearly dry. It was then decided
to stop the caisson as soon as a foundation could be secured on sound rock. The latter was
found at a depth of 38 ft. below mean high water. With the cutting edge seated at that depth,
the top of the caisson was only 2 ft. above mean high water, and as this was insufficient protection
against high tides, a 10-ft. extension was ordered for the top. Work, however, went on without
delay on the remainder of the excavation. The junction between the cutting edge and the rock
was sealed with concrete and grout. The caisson was lowered at an average rate of 0.53 ft.
per day. The size of the shaft below the cutting edge was 62 ft. 7 in. by 32 ft. The average
rate of excavation during the sinking in soft material was 84 cu. yd. per day. The average
rate of rock excavation below the final position of the cutting edge was 125 cu. yd. per day.
There were night and day shifts, each working 10 hours. Excavation in earth cost $3.96 per
cu. yd., of which $1.45 was for labor and $2.51 for top charges, etc. The excavation of rock
cost $8.93 per cu. yd., $2.83 being for labor and $6.10 for top charges.

The final elevations of the four corners of the cutting edge, together with their displacement
from the desired positions, are shown in Table 1.

RIVER TUNNELS.

The four river tunnels, between the Manhattan and Long Island City shafts, a distance of about
3,900 ft., were constructed by the shield method. Eight shields were erected, one on each line
in each shaft, the four from Manhattan working eastward to a junction near the middle of the
river with the four working westward from Long Island City. Toward the end of the work it was
evident that the shields in Tunnels B, C, and D would meet in the soft material a short distance
east of the Blackwell's Island Reef if work were continued in all headings. In order that the
junction might be made in firm material, work from Manhattan in those three tunnels was suspended
when the shields reached the edge of the ledge. The shields in Tunnel A met at a corresponding
point without the suspension of work in either. An average of 1,760 ft. of tunnel was driven
from Manhattan and 2,142 ft. from Long Island City.

TUNNELS DRIVEN EASTWARD FROM MANHATTAN.

Materials and Inception of Work.--The materials encountered are shown in the profile on Plate
XIII, and were similar in all the tunnels. In general, they were found to be about as indicated
in the preliminary borings. The materials met in Tunnel A may be taken as typical of all.

From the Manhattan shaft eastward, in succession, there were 123 ft. of all-rock section, 87
ft. of part earth and part rock, 723 ft. of all earth, 515 ft. of part rock and part earth,
291 ft. of all rock, and 56 ft. of part rock and part earth.

The rock on the Manhattan side was Hudson schist, while that in the reef was Fordham gneiss.
Here, as elsewhere, they resembled each other closely; the gneiss was slightly the harder,
but both were badly seamed and fissured. Wherever it was encountered in this work, the rock
surface was covered by a deposit of boulders, gravel, and sand, varying in thickness from 4
to 10 ft. and averaging about 6 ft.

