RUGGLES of RED GAP

By

Harry Leon Wilson

1915

[Dedication] TO HELEN COOKE WILSON

CHAPTER ONE

At 6:30 in our Paris apartment I had finished the Honourable George, performing those final
touches that make the difference between a man well turned out and a man merely dressed. In
the main I was not dissatisfied. His dress waistcoats, it is true, no longer permit the inhalation
of anything like a full breath, and his collars clasp too closely. (I have always held that
a collar may provide quite ample room for the throat without sacrifice of smartness if the
depth be at least two and one quarter inches.) And it is no secret to either the Honourable
George or our intimates that I have never approved his fashion of beard, a reddish, enveloping,
brushlike affair never nicely enough trimmed. I prefer, indeed, no beard at all, but he stubbornly
refuses to shave, possessing a difficult chin. Still, I repeat, he was not nearly impossible
as he now left my hands.

"Dining with the Americans," he remarked, as I conveyed the hat, gloves, and stick to him in
their proper order.

"Yes, sir," I replied. "And might I suggest, sir, that your choice be a grilled undercut or
something simple, bearing in mind the undoubted effects of shell-fish upon one's complexion?"
The hard truth is that after even a very little lobster the Honourable George has a way of
coming out in spots. A single oyster patty, too, will often spot him quite all over.

"What cheek! Decide that for myself," he retorted with a lame effort at dignity which he was
unable to sustain. His eyes fell from mine. "Besides, I'm almost quite certain that the last
time it was the melon. Wretched things, melons!"

Then, as if to divert me, he rather fussily refused the correct evening stick I had chosen
for him and seized a knobby bit of thornwood suitable only for moor and upland work, and brazenly
quite discarded the gloves.

"Feel a silly fool wearing gloves when there's no reason!" he exclaimed pettishly.

"Quite so, sir," I replied, freezing instantly.

"Now, don't play the juggins," he retorted. "Let me be comfortable. And I don't mind telling
you I stand to win a hundred quid this very evening."

"I dare say," I replied. The sum was more than needed, but I had cause to be thus cynical.

"From the American Johnny with the eyebrows," he went on with a quite pathetic enthusiasm.
"We're to play their American game of poker--drawing poker as they call it. I've watched them
play for near a fortnight. It's beastly simple. One has only to know when to bluff."

"A hundred pounds, yes, sir. And if one loses----"

He flashed me a look so deucedly queer that it fair chilled me.

"I fancy you'll be even more interested than I if I lose," he remarked in tones of a curious
evenness that were somehow rather deadly. The words seemed pregnant with meaning, but before
I could weigh them I heard him noisily descending the stairs. It was only then I recalled having
noticed that he had not changed to his varnished boots, having still on his feet the doggish
and battered pair he most favoured. It was a trick of his to evade me with them. I did for
them each day all that human boot-cream could do, but they were things no sensitive gentleman
would endure with evening dress. I was glad to reflect that doubtless only Americans would
observe them.

So began the final hours of a 14th of July in Paris that must ever be memorable. My own birthday,
it is also chosen by the French as one on which to celebrate with carnival some one of those
regrettable events in their own distressing past.

To begin with, the day was marked first of all by the breezing in of his lordship the Earl
of Brinstead, brother of the Honourable George, on his way to England from the Engadine. More
peppery than usual had his lordship been, his grayish side-whiskers in angry upheaval and his
inflamed words exploding quite all over the place, so that the Honourable George and I had
both perceived it to be no time for admitting our recent financial reverse at the gaming tables
of Ostend. On the contrary, we had gamely affirmed the last quarter's allowance to be practically
untouched--a desperate stand, indeed! But there was that in his lordship's manner to urge us
to it, though even so he appeared to be not more than half deceived.

"No good greening me!" he exploded to both of us. "Tell in a flash--gambling, or a woman--typing-girl,
milliner, dancing person, what, what! Guilty faces, both of you. Know you too well. My word,
what, what!"

Again we stoutly protested while his lordship on the hearthrug rocked in his boots and glared.
The Honourable George gamely rattled some loose coin of the baser sort in his pockets and tried
in return for a glare of innocence foully aspersed. I dare say he fell short of it. His histrionic
gifts are but meagre.

"Fools, quite fools, both of you!" exploded his lordship anew. "And, make it worse, no longer
young fools. Young and a fool, people make excuses. Say, 'Fool? Yes, but so young!' But old
and a fool--not a word to say, what, what! Silly rot at forty." He clutched his side-whiskers
with frenzied hands. He seemed to comb them to a more bristling rage.

"Dare say you'll both come croppers. Not surprise me. Silly old George, course, course! Hoped
better of Ruggles, though. Ruggles different from old George. Got a brain. But can't use it.
Have old George wed to a charwoman presently. Hope she'll be a worker. Need to be--support
you both, what, what!"

I mean to say, he was coming it pretty thick, since he could not have forgotten that each time
I had warned him so he could hasten to save his brother from distressing mesalliances. I refer
to the affair with the typing-girl and to the later entanglement with a Brixton milliner encountered
informally under the portico of a theatre in Charing Cross Road. But he was in no mood to concede
that I had thus far shown a scrupulous care in these emergencies. Peppery he was, indeed. He
gathered hat and stick, glaring indignantly at each of them and then at us.

"Greened me fair, haven't you, about money? Quite so, quite so! Not hear from you then till
next quarter. No telegraphing--no begging letters. Shouldn't a bit know what to make of them.
Plenty you got to last. Say so yourselves." He laughed villainously here. "Morning," said he,
and was out.

"Old Nevil been annoyed by something," said the Honourable George after a long silence. "Know
the old boy too well. Always tell when he's been annoyed. Rather wish he hadn't been."

So we had come to the night of this memorable day, and to the Honourable George's departure
on his mysterious words about the hundred pounds.

Left alone, I began to meditate profoundly. It was the closing of a day I had seen dawn with
the keenest misgiving, having had reason to believe it might be fraught with significance if
not disaster to myself. The year before a gypsy at Epsom had solemnly warned me that a great
change would come into my life on or before my fortieth birthday. To this I might have paid
less heed but for its disquieting confirmation on a later day at a psychic parlour in Edgware
Road. Proceeding there in company with my eldest brother-in-law, a plate-layer and surfaceman
on the Northern (he being uncertain about the Derby winner for that year), I was told by the
person for a trifle of two shillings that I was soon to cross water and to meet many strange
adventures. True, later events proved her to have been psychically unsound as to the Derby
winner (so that my brother-in-law, who was out two pounds ten, thereby threatened to have an
action against her); yet her reference to myself had confirmed the words of the gypsy; so it
will be plain why I had been anxious the whole of this birthday.

For one thing, I had gone on the streets as little as possible, though I should naturally have
done that, for the behaviour of the French on this bank holiday of theirs is repugnant in the
extreme to the sane English point of view--I mean their frivolous public dancing and marked
conversational levity. Indeed, in their soberest moments, they have too little of British weight.
Their best-dressed men are apparently turned out not by menservants but by modistes. I will
not say their women are without a gift for wearing gowns, and their chefs have unquestionably
got at the inner meaning of food, but as a people at large they would never do with us. Even
their language is not based on reason. I have had occasion, for example, to acquire their word
for bread, which is "pain." As if that were not wild enough, they mispronounce it atrociously.
Yet for years these people have been separated from us only by a narrow strip of water!

By keeping close to our rooms, then, I had thought to evade what of evil might have been in
store for me on this day. Another evening I might have ventured abroad to a cinema palace,
but this was no time for daring, and I took a further precaution of locking our doors. Then,
indeed, I had no misgiving save that inspired by the last words of the Honourable George. In
the event of his losing the game of poker I was to be even more concerned than he. Yet how
could evil come to me, even should the American do him in the eye rather frightfully? In truth,
I had not the faintest belief that the Honourable George would win the game. He fancies himself
a card-player, though why he should, God knows. At bridge with him every hand is a no-trumper.
I need not say more. Also it occurred to me that the American would be a person not accustomed
to losing. There was that about him.

More than once I had deplored this rather Bohemian taste of the Honourable George which led
him to associate with Americans as readily as with persons of his own class; and especially
had I regretted his intimacy with the family in question. Several times I had observed them,
on the occasion of bearing messages from the Honourable George--usually his acceptance of an
invitation to dine. Too obviously they were rather a handful. I mean to say, they were people
who could perhaps matter in their own wilds, but they would never do with us.

Their leader, with whom the Honourable George had consented to game this evening, was a tall,
careless-spoken person, with a narrow, dark face marked with heavy black brows that were rather
tremendous in their effect when he did not smile. Almost at my first meeting him I divined
something of the public man in his bearing, a suggestion, perhaps, of the confirmed orator,
a notion in which I was somehow further set by the gesture with which he swept back his carelessly
falling forelock. I was not surprised, then, to hear him referred to as the "Senator." In some
unexplained manner, the Honourable George, who is never as reserved in public as I could wish
him to be, had chummed up with this person at one of the race-tracks, and had thereafter been
almost quite too pally with him and with the very curious other members of his family--the
name being Floud.

The wife might still be called youngish, a bit florid in type, plumpish, with yellow hair,
though to this a stain had been applied, leaving it in deficient consonance with her eyebrows;
these shading grayish eyes that crackled with determination. Rather on the large side she was,
forcible of speech and manner, yet curiously eager, I had at once detected, for the exactly
correct thing in dress and deportment.

The remaining member of the family was a male cousin of the so-called Senator, his senior evidently
by half a score of years, since I took him to have reached the late fifties. "Cousin Egbert"
he was called, and it was at once apparent to me that he had been most direly subjugated by
the woman whom he addressed with great respect as "Mrs. Effie." Rather a seamed and drooping
chap he was, with mild, whitish-blue eyes like a porcelain doll's, a mournfully drooped gray
moustache, and a grayish jumble of hair. I early remarked his hunted look in the presence of
the woman. Timid and soft-stepping he was beyond measure.

Such were the impressions I had been able to glean of these altogether queer people during
the fortnight since the Honourable George had so lawlessly taken them up. Lodged they were
in an hotel among the most expensive situated near what would have been our Trafalgar Square,
and I later recalled that I had been most interestedly studied by the so-called "Mrs. Effie"
on each of the few occasions I appeared there. I mean to say, she would not be above putting
to me intimate questions concerning my term of service with the Honourable George Augustus
Vane-Basingwell, the precise nature of the duties I performed for him, and even the exact sum
of my honourarium. On the last occasion she had remarked--and too well I recall a strange glitter
in her competent eyes--"You are just the man needed by poor Cousin Egbert there--you could
make something of him. Look at the way he's tied that cravat after all I've said to him."

The person referred to here shivered noticeably, stroked his chin in a manner enabling him
to conceal the cravat, and affected nervously to be taken with a sight in the street below.
In some embarrassment I withdrew, conscious of a cold, speculative scrutiny bent upon me by
the woman.

If I have seemed tedious in my recital of the known facts concerning these extraordinary North
American natives, it will, I am sure, be forgiven me in the light of those tragic developments
about to ensue.

Meantime, let me be pictured as reposing in fancied security from all evil predictions while
I awaited the return of the Honourable George. I was only too certain he would come suffering
from an acute acid dyspepsia, for I had seen lobster in his shifty eyes as he left me; but
beyond this I apprehended nothing poignant, and I gave myself up to meditating profoundly upon
our situation.

Frankly, it was not good. I had done my best to cheer the Honourable George, but since our
brief sojourn at Ostend, and despite the almost continuous hospitality of the Americans, he
had been having, to put it bluntly, an awful hump. At Ostend, despite my remonstrance, he had
staked and lost the major portion of his quarter's allowance in testing a system at the wheel
which had been warranted by the person who sold it to him in London to break any bank in a
day's play. He had meant to pause but briefly at Ostend, for little more than a test of the
system, then proceed to Monte Carlo, where his proposed terrific winnings would occasion less
alarm to the managers. Yet at Ostend the system developed such grave faults in the first hour
of play that we were forced to lay up in Paris to economize.

For myself I had entertained doubts of the system from the moment of its purchase, for it seemed
awfully certain to me that the vendor would have used it himself instead of parting with it
for a couple of quid, he being in plain need of fresh linen and smarter boots, to say nothing
of the quite impossible lounge-suit he wore the night we met him in a cab shelter near Covent
Garden. But the Honourable George had not listened to me. He insisted the chap had made it
all enormously clear; that those mathematical Johnnies never valued money for its own sake,
and that we should presently be as right as two sparrows in a crate.

Fearfully annoyed I was at the denouement. For now we were in Paris, rather meanly lodged in
a dingy hotel on a narrow street leading from what with us might have been Piccadilly Circus.
Our rooms were rather a good height with a carved cornice and plaster enrichments, but the
furnishings were musty and the general air depressing, notwithstanding the effect of a few
good mantel ornaments which I have long made it a rule to carry with me.

Then had come the meeting with the Americans. Glad I was to reflect that this had occurred
in Paris instead of London. That sort of thing gets about so. Even from Paris I was not a little
fearful that news of his mixing with this raffish set might get to the ears of his lordship
either at the town house or at Chaynes-Wotten. True, his lordship is not over-liberal with
his brother, but that is small reason for affronting the pride of a family that attained its
earldom in the fourteenth century. Indeed the family had become important quite long before
this time, the first Vane-Basingwell having been beheaded by no less a personage than William
the Conqueror, as I learned in one of the many hours I have been privileged to browse in the
Chaynes-Wotten library.

It need hardly be said that in my long term of service with the Honourable George, beginning
almost from the time my mother nursed him, I have endeavoured to keep him up to his class,
combating a certain laxness that has hampered him. And most stubborn he is, and wilful. At
games he is almost quite a duffer. I once got him to play outside left on a hockey eleven and
he excited much comment, some of which was of a favourable nature, but he cares little for
hunting or shooting and, though it is scarce a matter to be gossiped of, he loathes cricket.
Perhaps I have disclosed enough concerning him. Although the Vane-Basingwells have quite almost
always married the right people, the Honourable George was beyond question born queer.

Again, in the matter of marriage, he was difficult. His lordship, having married early into
a family of poor lifes, was now long a widower, and meaning to remain so he had been especially
concerned that the Honourable George should contract a proper alliance. Hence our constant
worry lest he prove too susceptible out of his class. More than once had he shamefully funked
his fences. There was the distressing instance of the Honourable Agatha Cradleigh. Quite all
that could be desired of family and dower she was, thirty-two years old, a bit faded though
still eager, with the rather immensely high forehead and long, thin, slightly curved Cradleigh
nose.

The Honourable George at his lordship's peppery urging had at last consented to a betrothal,
and our troubles for a time promised to be over, but it came to precisely nothing. I gathered
it might have been because she wore beads on her gown and was interested in uplift work, or
that she bred canaries, these birds being loathed by the Honourable George with remarkable
intensity, though it might equally have been that she still mourned a deceased fiance of her
early girlhood, a curate, I believe, whose faded letters she had preserved and would read to
the Honourable George at intimate moments, weeping bitterly the while. Whatever may have been
his fancied objection--that is the time we disappeared and were not heard of for near a twelvemonth.

Wondering now I was how we should last until the next quarter's allowance. We always had lasted,
but each time it was a different way. The Honourable George at a crisis of this sort invariably
spoke of entering trade, and had actually talked of selling motor-cars, pointing out to me
that even certain rulers of Europe had frankly entered this trade as agents. It might have
proved remunerative had he known anything of motor-cars, but I was more than glad he did not,
for I have always considered machinery to be unrefined. Much I preferred that he be a company
promoter or something of that sort in the city, knowing about bonds and debentures, as many
of the best of our families are not above doing. It seemed all he could do with propriety,
having failed in examinations for the army and the church, and being incurably hostile to politics,
which he declared silly rot.

Sharply at midnight I aroused myself from these gloomy thoughts and breathed a long sigh of
relief. Both gipsy and psychic expert had failed in their prophecies. With a lightened heart
I set about the preparations I knew would be needed against the Honourable George's return.
Strong in my conviction that he would not have been able to resist lobster, I made ready his
hot foot-bath with its solution of brine-crystals and put the absorbent fruit-lozenges close
by, together with his sleeping-suit, his bed-cap, and his knitted night-socks. Scarcely was
all ready when I heard his step.

He greeted me curtly on entering, swiftly averting his face as I took his stick, hat, and top-coat.
But I had seen the worst at one glance. The Honourable George was more than spotted--he was
splotchy. It was as bad as that.

"Lobster and oysters," I made bold to remark, but he affected not to have heard, and proceeded
rapidly to disrobe. He accepted the foot-bath without demur, pulling a blanket well about his
shoulders, complaining of the water's temperature, and demanding three of the fruit-lozenges.

"Not what you think at all," he then said. "It was that cursed bar-le-duc jelly. Always puts
me this way, and you quite well know it."

"Yes, sir, to be sure," I answered gravely, and had the satisfaction of noting that he looked
quite a little foolish. Too well he knew I could not be deceived, and even now I could surmise
that the lobster had been supported by sherry. How many times have I not explained to him that
sherry has double the tonic vinosity of any other wine and may not be tampered with by the
sensitive. But he chose at present to make light of it, almost as if he were chaffing above
his knowledge of some calamity.

"Some book Johnny says a chap is either a fool or a physician at forty," he remarked, drawing
the blanket more closely about him.

"I should hardly rank you as a Harley Street consultant, sir," I swiftly retorted, which was
slanging him enormously because he had turned forty. I mean to say, there was but one thing
he could take me as meaning him to be, since at forty I considered him no physician. But at
least I had not been too blunt, the touch about the Harley Street consultant being rather neat,
I thought, yet not too subtle for him.

He now demanded a pipe of tobacco, and for a time smoked in silence. I could see that his mind
worked painfully.

"Stiffish lot, those Americans," he said at last.

"They do so many things one doesn't do," I answered.

"And their brogue is not what one could call top-hole, is it now? How often they say 'I guess!'
I fancy they must say it a score of times in a half-hour."

"I fancy they do, sir," I agreed.

"I fancy that Johnny with the eyebrows will say it even oftener."

"I fancy so, sir. I fancy I've counted it well up to that."

"I fancy you're quite right. And the chap 'guesses' when he awfully well knows, too. That's
the essential rabbit. To-night he said 'I guess I've got you beaten to a pulp,' when I fancy
he wasn't guessing at all. I mean to say, I swear he knew it perfectly."

"You lost the game of drawing poker?" I asked coldly, though I knew he had carried little to lose.

"I lost----" he began. I observed he was strangely embarrassed. He strangled over his pipe
and began anew: "I said that to play the game soundly you've only to know when to bluff. Studied
it out myself, and jolly well right I was, too, as far as I went. But there's further to go
in the silly game. I hadn't observed that to play it greatly one must also know when one's
opponent is bluffing."

"Really, sir?"

"Oh, really; quite important, I assure you. More important than one would have believed, watching
their silly ways. You fancy a chap's bluffing when he's doing nothing of the sort. I'd enormously
have liked to know it before we played. Things would have been so awfully different for us"--he
broke off curiously, paused, then added--"for you."

"Different for me, sir?" His words seemed gruesome. They seemed open to some vaguely sinister
interpretation. But I kept myself steady.

"We live and learn, sir," I said, lightly enough.

"Some of us learn too late," he replied, increasingly ominous.

"I take it you failed to win the hundred pounds, sir?"

"I have the hundred pounds; I won it--by losing."

Again he evaded my eye.

"Played, indeed, sir," said I.

"You jolly well won't believe that for long."

Now as he had the hundred pounds, I couldn't fancy what the deuce and all he meant by such
prattle. I was half afraid he might be having me on, as I have known him do now and again when
he fancied he could get me. I fearfully wanted to ask questions. Again I saw the dark, absorbed
face of the gipsy as he studied my future.

"Rotten shift, life is," now murmured the Honourable George quite as if he had forgotten me.
"If I'd have but put through that Monte Carlo affair I dare say I'd have chucked the whole
business--gone to South Africa, perhaps, and set up a mine or a plantation. Shouldn't have
come back. Just cut off, and good-bye to this mess. But no capital. Can't do things without
capital. Where these American Johnnies have the pull of us. Do anything. Nearly do what they
jolly well like to. No sense to money. Stuff that runs blind. Look at the silly beggars that
have it----" On he went quite alarmingly with his tirade. Almost as violent he was as an ugly-headed
chap I once heard ranting when I went with my brother-in-law to a meeting of the North Brixton
Radical Club. Quite like an anarchist he was. Presently he quieted. After a long pull at his
pipe he regarded me with an entire change of manner. Well I knew something was coming; coming
swift as a rocketing woodcock. Word for word I put down our incredible speeches:

"You are going out to America, Ruggles."

"Yes, sir; North or South, sir?"

"North, I fancy; somewhere on the West coast--Ohio, Omaha, one of those Indian places."

"Perhaps Indiana or the Yellowstone Valley, sir."

"The chap's a sort of millionaire."

"The chap, sir?"

"Eyebrow chap. Money no end--mines, lumber, domestic animals, that sort of thing."

"Beg pardon, sir! I'm to go----"

"Chap's wife taken a great fancy to you. Would have you to do for the funny, sad beggar. So
he's won you. Won you in a game of drawing poker. Another man would have done as well, but
the creature was keen for you. Great strength of character. Determined sort. Hope you won't
think I didn't play soundly, but it's not a forthright game. Think they're bluffing when they
aren't. When they are you mayn't think it. So far as hiding one's intentions, it's a most rottenly
immoral game. Low, animal cunning--that sort of thing."

"Do I understand I was the stake, sir?" I controlled myself to say. The heavens seemed bursting
about my head.

"Ultimately lost you were by the very trifling margin of superiority that a hand known as a
club flush bears over another hand consisting of three of the eights--not quite all of them,
you understand, only three, and two other quite meaningless cards."

I could but stammer piteously, I fear. I heard myself make a wretched failure of words that
crowded to my lips.

"But it's quite simple, I tell you. I dare say I could show it you in a moment if you've cards
in your box."

"Thank you, sir, I'll not trouble you. I'm certain it was simple. But would you mind telling
me what exactly the game was played for?"

"Knew you'd not understand at once. My word, it was not too bally simple. If I won I'd a hundred
pounds. If I lost I'd to give you up to them but still to receive a hundred pounds. I suspect
the Johnny's conscience pricked him. Thought you were worth a hundred pounds, and guessed all
the time he could do me awfully in the eye with his poker. Quite set they were on having you.
Eyebrow chap seemed to think it a jolly good wheeze. She didn't, though. Quite off her head
at having you for that glum one who does himself so badly."

Dazed I was, to be sure, scarce comprehending the calamity that had befallen us.

"Am I to understand, sir, that I am now in the service of the Americans?"

"Stupid! Of course, of course! Explained clearly, haven't I, about the club flush and the three
eights. Only three of them, mind you. If the other one had been in my hand, I'd have done him.
As narrow a squeak as that. But I lost. And you may be certain I lost gamely, as a gentleman
should. No laughing matter, but I laughed with them--except the funny, sad one. He was worried
and made no secret of it. They were good enough to say I took my loss like a dead sport."

More of it followed, but always the same. Ever he came back to the sickening, concise point
that I was to go out to the American wilderness with these grotesque folk who had but the most
elementary notions of what one does and what one does not do. Always he concluded with his
boast that he had taken his loss like a dead sport. He became vexed at last by my painful efforts
to understand how, precisely, the dreadful thing had come about. But neither could I endure
more. I fled to my room. He had tried again to impress upon me that three eights are but slightly
inferior to the flush of clubs.

I faced my glass. My ordinary smooth, full face seemed to have shrivelled. The marks of my
anguish were upon me. Vainly had I locked myself in. The gipsy's warning had borne its evil
fruit. Sold, I'd been; even as once the poor blackamoors were sold into American bondage. I
recalled one of their pathetic folk-songs in which the wretches were wont to make light of
their lamentable estate; a thing I had often heard sung by a black with a banjo on the pier
at Brighton; not a genuine black, only dyed for the moment he was, but I had never lost the
plaintive quality of the verses:

    "Away down South in Michigan,
    Where I was so happy and so gay,
    'Twas there I mowed the cotton and the cane----"

How poignantly the simple words came back to me! A slave, day after day mowing his owner's
cotton and cane, plucking the maize from the savannahs, yet happy and gay! Should I be equal
to this spirit? The Honourable George had lost; so I, his pawn, must also submit like a dead sport.

How little I then dreamed what adventures, what adversities, what ignominies--yes, and what
triumphs were to be mine in those back blocks of North America! I saw but a bleak wilderness,
a distressing contact with people who never for a moment would do with us. I shuddered. I despaired.

And outside the windows gay Paris laughed and sang in the dance, ever unheeding my plight!

CHAPTER TWO

In that first sleep how often do we dream that our calamity has been only a dream. It was so
in my first moments of awakening. Vestiges of some grotesquely hideous nightmare remained with
me. Wearing the shackles of the slave, I had been mowing the corn under the fierce sun that
beats down upon the American savannahs. Sickeningly, then, a wind of memory blew upon me and
I was alive to my situation.

Nor was I forgetful of the plight in which the Honourable George would now find himself. He
is as good as lost when not properly looked after. In the ordinary affairs of life he is a
simple, trusting, incompetent duffer, if ever there was one. Even in so rudimentary a matter
as collar-studs he is like a storm-tossed mariner--I mean to say, like a chap in a boat on
the ocean who doesn't know what sails to pull up nor how to steer the silly rudder.

One rather feels exactly that about him.

