"Then tell her;--you will be able, I know, to think of a great deal that is comforting. I should
not remember it, I'm afraid, if I could write the letter. Tell her what fine music I have.
You can say something, too, about the garden, as I said. You can speak of the view from this
window. See! it is very fine. You can tell her--yes, you can tell her now, that I am well,
Elizabeth."

"Oh, Sir, can I tell her you are well?"

"Yes,--yes,--say so. Besides, it is true. But you must add that I have no hope now of our meeting
in this world. She can bear it, for she is strong, like you. She, too, is a soldier's daughter.
If you will say those things, I will tell you her name. That shall be our secret." In this
speech his tone was altogether that of one who takes the place of a comforter.

"Yes," said Elizabeth, calm and attentive. It was quite impossible that she should so mistake
as to allow the knowledge that was quickening her perception into pain to appear.

"You must tell her about yourself," said he, again.

"What shall I say? There is nothing about myself to tell, Mr. Manuel."

"Is there not? That would be strange. Tell her what music you like best to hear your father
play. She will understand you by that. Tell her anything,--she will not call it a trifle. What
if she answers you in the same mood? Should we call it foolish, if she told us her thoughts,
and the events that take place daily in her quiet life? You can tell her what songs you love
to sing. And if she does not know them, she will learn them, Elizabeth. Tell her how much it
comforts me to hear you sing. Tell her, that, if she has prayed some light might shine on me
from Heaven, her prayer is answered. For it is true. You serve me like an angel, and I see
it all. Tell her she must love you for my sake,--though there is no need to tell her.--Do you see?"

"I see."

"Tell her I remember"--There he faltered; he could say no more.

"Yes," said Elizabeth, "I will,--I will tell her everything, Mr. Manuel,--everything that it
would comfort her to hear."

She had written letters now and then. Great pride Montier and Pauline took in their daughter's
skilful use of pen and ink, and pencil,--for Elizabeth could sketch as well as write. There
was nothing new or strange, therefore, in her addressing this conversation to a spirit. But,
also, there was nothing easy in this task, though she had the mighty theme of faithful love
to dwell upon, and love's wondrous inspiration to enlighten her labor.

The description to be given of island scenery was such as she had given more than once, in
writing to her distant, unknown relatives. She need vary only slightly from what she had written
before, when she gave report of her own daily life. She was always eloquent when talking about
the flowers or her father's music.

But this she had undertaken was not a repetition of what she had done before. With painful
anxiety she scrutinized her words, her thoughts, her feelings. The work was a labor of love;
the loving best know what anguish their labor sometimes costs them. The pain of this letter
was not fairly understood by her who endured it,--it could not be shared.

Why was she so cautious? why in her caution lurked so much of fear? Perhaps she might have
answered, if questioned by one she trusted, that further intrusion of herself than should serve
as a veil for the really important information she had to convey would be cruel intrusion.
But there was a very different reason; it had to do with the sudden revelation made to herself
when her father wept at the prisoner's hard fate,--a revelation that terrified her, and influenced
every succeeding movement; it had to do with the illumination that came when Manuel told her
the sad secret of his heart,--with that moment when she stood up stronger in love than in fear,
stronger in devotion than in pride, strong for self-sacrifice, like one who bears a charmed
life pierced to the heart, and never so capable as then.

More than once did Elizabeth rewrite that letter. More than once in the progress to its completion
did she break away from the strange task, that had evidence of strangeness or of labor, to
seek in the garden, or with her needle, or in the society of father or mother, deliverance
from the trouble that disturbed her. In the toils of many an argument with her heart and conscience
was she caught; but even through her doubting of the work she had engaged to perform, she persevered
in its continuance, till the letter was ready for address.

It was surely right to aid, and comfort by such aid, one so unfortunate as this prisoner; yet
her parents must not be implicated by such transaction. Therefore they must be kept in ignorance,
that, if blame fell anywhere, it might not fall on them. So she satisfied her conscience;--love
will not calculate coldly. But it was less easy to satisfy her heart.

She had lived but sixteen years; she looked to her youth as to a protector, while it rebuked
her. She leaned upon it, while daily she took to herself the part of womanhood, its duties
and its dignity. He had called her a child; she called herself a child. She was careful to
let this estimate of herself appear in that letter; and in what she undertook she was entirely
successful; Madeline Desperiers would be sure to read it as the letter of a child.

When all was done Elizabeth repeated to Manuel the substance of this letter. He praised it.
Jealous scrutiny would find it difficult to lay its finger on a passage, and condemn the writer
for evading the law concerning the prisoner. When she signed and sealed the letter, addressed
it, and carried it away with her to mail, he was satisfied; his praise was sweet to the girl
who had earned it.

No sooner was this work off her hands than another engaged her. With a purpose prompted may-be
by her angel, certainly by no human word, and unshared by any human intelligence, Elizabeth
began to make a sketch of the island as seen from Manuel's prison-window. She made the sketch
from memory, correcting it by observation when occasion called her to the prisoner's room.

At length she brought the sheet of paper, on which this sketch was drawn, to Manuel, and laid
it before him. She did this without any accompanying word of explanation. In the foreground
was the garden, stretching up the slope of the hill towards the top, where the fort-wall began;
beyond, fort, barracks, settlement,--and still beyond, the sea. The island of Foray, as thus
represented, appeared like many other views on paper, very pleasing and attractive. Nature
is not responsible for sin and suffering, that she should veil her glory wherever these may
choose to pitch their tent.

The prisoner took the drawing from the table where she had laid it, and scanned it closely.

"You have left out my house," said he.

"There was no room for it," she answered.

"True!" He understood her. "Do you know whom this is for, Mr. Manuel?

"Whom is it for, Elizabeth?"

"For Madeline; is it a pretty view?"

"Really for her, Elizabeth?"

"Surely. Her eyes shall look on the same view as yours."

"The fort, flag, sea-wall, burial-ground, ocean, barracks, garden; --it is well done.--Now
I will tell you of the place where it will find her."

He paused a moment ere he began that description. He looked at the quiet figure of the child
for whom he dared recall the past. She stood with folded hands, so fair, so young, the sight
was a refreshment, and a strange assurance always, to his weary eyes and weary heart. Never
did she look so lovely to him as now when he was about to speak again to her of his life's
love for another.

"It was once a magnificent estate," he began.

"Oh, is she a grand lady?" broke from Elizabeth.

"Yes, a grand lady. You speak well," replied Manuel, with a smile. "The estate was once ten
times as large as this island. Towns and villages are built over the land now, but the old
house stands as it has stood through ten generations. There she lives. If she stands by the
library-window today, she can see the church built by her great-grandfather, and the little
town of Desperiers, which had in his day a population of tenantry. She can see the ponds and
the park, and a garden where there are hothouses, and graperies, and conservatories, and winding
walks where you might walk all day and find something new to surprise and delight you at every
turn. There is a tower that commands a view of fifty miles in one direction. The old house
is full of treasure. She is mistress of all,--the only representative of a long line of noble
men and beautiful women who have dispensed magnificent hospitality there. The last time I saw
her, Elizabeth, she was standing in the library, a woman so beautiful and so strong you would
not have thought that trouble could approach her. It came through me. I opened those ancient
gates for the black train, --I, who loved no mortal as I loved her! But I lost her in my fight
for Truth. Shall I complain? Her heart was with mine in that struggle. Cannot Truth comfort her?"

"She is not lost to you. Sir,--you are not lost to her," cried Elizabeth, in a voice as strong
as breaks sometimes through dying agony.

"I know," said he, more gently. His thought was not the same as hers; he was taking refuge
in that future which remains to the loving when this life wholly fails in hope.

"You shall go back to that old place, Sir! You shall--you two--shall forget all this!"

The prisoner smiled to hear her,--a sad smile, yet a sweet smile too. He did not despise the
comfort she would give him, nor resent her presumptuous speech.

"As when I dream sometimes," said he, gently,--"or in some pleasant vision. Yes, that is true,
Elizabeth. I have been back, and I shall go again."

Vehemently now she broke forth. It was love defying the whole universe, if the whole universe
opposed itself to the sovereign rights of love, the divine strength and the divine courage
of love. --"You shall go on board some vessel, a passenger; you shall see with your own eyes;
your hands shall be free to gather the sweetest rose that--ever blossomed in the world for
you. Mr. Manuel, do not look so doubting,--do not smile so! Am I not in earnest? Do you not
hear me? As God lives, and as I live, I will do what I promise. Why, what do you think I am
here for?"

Wondering, doubting if he heard aright, Manuel looked at Elizabeth. The painful, kindly smile,
the incredulity, had disappeared from his face; the power and confidence of her words seemed
to persuade him that at least she purposed seriously and was not uttering mere wishes. It might
be the enthusiasm and generosity of a child that inspired her speech, but its determination
and gravity of utterance demanded at least a respectful hearing.

"What do you mean, Elizabeth?" he asked.

"I mean that I will go home and explain, and you shall be set free."

He shook his head. "There is nothing to be explained," said he. "I am not here by mistake.
I am very clearly guilty, if there is guilt in doing what I am accused of. The hearts of those
who condemned me must be changed, and their eyes opened, or I shall never be set free."

"God chooses humble agents," she said, humbly. "David slew Goliath, and he was but a lad. He
will open the way for me, and by me change the hearts of those who condemned, and by me open
their eyes. Therefore I shall go,--I shall surely go. Ah, Mr. Manuel, give me the picture!
It is all that you shall have of the island of Foray, please Almighty God, when these doors
are all open for you, and your hands are free, Sir, and we tell you to come, for the vessel
is waiting!"

She went out from the room while these words took solemn possession of the place. She locked
the door behind her;--no requirement of law was to be neglected or withstood; she made him
a prisoner whom she would set free;--and from this interview she went away, not to solitude,
and the formation of secret plans, but, as became the daughter of Adolphus and Pauline Montier,
she went quietly, with that repose of manner which distinguished her through almost every event,
back to her mother's chamber.

There stood Adolphus Montier, drummer to the regiment, jailer to the prisoner, father of Elizabeth,--loving
man, whichever way you looked at him. He had his French horn in his hands, and was about to
raise it to his lips; in a moment more a blast would have rung through the house, for Adolphus
was in one of his tempestuously happy moods.

But his daughter's entrance arrested his purpose. Say, rather, the expression of her face performed
that feat. He saw, likewise, the paper which she carried, the pencilled sketch,--and he followed
her with his eyes when she crossed the room and placed it on the mantel under the engraving
of the city of Fatherland. This act took the parents to the fireplace, for discussion and criticism
of their daughter's work, and of the two homes now brought into contrasted connection.

"But you have left out the prison," was the comment of Adolphus.

"I am glad of that," said Pauline.

"But it is part of the island."

"It ought to be left out, though," maintained his wife.

"Where would you keep him, then?" asked Adolphus, a broad smile spreading over his face. He
knew well enough what the answer would be.

"I'd set him adrift," was Pauline's reply, spoken without the least pretence of caution.

"Hush!" said her husband; but that was because he was the jailer. He laughed outright close
on this admonition, and asked Elizabeth if she expected him to make a frame for this picture
to hang opposite Chalons.

"No," she answered, "I am going to take it with me."

"Where now?" asked the parents in one breath.

"Oh, home,--Chalons."

This reply seemed to merit some consideration, by the way the eyes of Adolphus and Pauline
regarded their child. They did not understand her;--her meaning was deeper than her utterance.

"To Chalons?" repeated Adolphus, quietly.

"Home?" said Pauline;--it was almost the sweetest word she knew, almost the easiest of utterance.

"You have promised me a hundred times that I should go. Did you mean it? May I go? You wish
me to see the old place and the old people. But the old place is changing, and the old people
are dying. Soon, if I go to Chalons, it will not be your Chalons I shall see."

Dumb with wonder, Adolphus and Pauline looked at one another. To be sure, they had done their
best in order to excite in the breast of Elizabeth such love of country as was worthy of their
child, and such curiosity about locality as would constrain her to cherish some reverent regard
for the place of their birth, the home of their youthful love; but never had they imagined
the possibility of her projecting a pilgrimage in that direction, except under their guidance.
They could hardly imagine it now. Often they had talked over every step of that journey they
would one day make together; the progress was as familiar to Elizabeth as it could be made
by the description of another; but that they had succeeded in so awaking the feeling of their
child, that she should seriously propose making the pilgrimage alone, passed their comprehension.

"You know," said Adolphus, with a shrug, "your father is an officer, and he cannot now leave
his post. Are you going to take your mother along with you?"

He said these words at a venture, not certain of his ground. He was not kept in suspense long.

"My mother must not leave you," answered Elizabeth, greatly agitated, and yet speaking strongly,
as one whose will exceeded her emotion.

"Then you go alone?" asked Adolphus, shortly. He could not understand her, and was thoroughly
vexed that he could not; mysteries were not for him. "What is the matter? is it the prison?
Wife!" he turned to Pauline, but, as he looked at her, his perplexity seemed to increase, as
did his impatience also.

Wife and daughter evidently were not in league against him; she, the mother of his child, shared
his anxiety and doubt. Tears were in her eyes, and he had only been impatient!--she had passed
so quickly to an apprehension that was grievous, Adolphus stood the image of dismay. Those
three, so entirely one, seemed to have been thrust apart by a resistless evil Fate who had
some malignant purpose to serve.

Not now for the first time did Pauline see that the young face before her was pale, and grave
with a gravity once unknown to it. It might be, that, for the first time, she was asking herself
outright if this prison-life was to serve Elizabeth as it had served the wife of Laval,--but
not for the first time was she now visited by a foreboding that pointed to this fear.

"It is the prison," said she.

"Elizabeth, is it so? Is this house going to be the death of you?" asked Montier, abruptly,--referring
the point with stern authority, to the last person who would be likely to acknowledge the danger
of which he spoke.

"If you think so, papa and mamma, I must give up the voyage, just to prove that you are mistaken,"
answered she.

"Look at her, Adolphus!" said Pauline; "remember what she was a year ago! She's not the same
now. I can see it. Strange if I could not! Young people are different from old. I thought this
place would never seem like home to me, but I found out my mistake."

"I knew you would," said Adolphus, quickly.

"Of course it is the place for me, on the prisoner's account. I hate the prison just the same,
though. But if I was mistaken, so was Elizabeth. She thought it would seem like home to her;--it
never has; it never will. But I do not think there is a chance of our being kept here long
by poor Mr. Manuel. Adolphus, I am for Elizabeth's going home."

"Colonel Farel and his lady are getting ready to go in the next vessel," said Adolphus, as
if in a sleep, or as though his power of speech opposed and defied him in its activity,--so
bewildered did he look at his wife and daughter.

"Oh, then, may I go? It is only out and back. I will not be long away. Then we shall all go
some day together, and never, never return."

"That is my wish," said Pauline; "isn't it yours, Adolphus?"

"Yes!" And this answer was given by a man who was neither asleep nor bewildered, but by one
who had put himself out of sight, and was thinking only of others.

Adolphus had not been as blind as Pauline must have supposed him when she bade him remember
what their daughter was a year ago. He, too, had seen that the bloom was fading from her face,
and by many a device he had striven to divert the gravity, descending upon her, from taking
possession of her. Pauline's words revived every fear, every anxiety he had felt for their
child. Generous as impetuous, he saw now only one thing to be done, one result to be accomplished.
Elizabeth must sail in the next vessel, and he was not the man to know another quiet moment
till that vessel hove in sight. That was his way; why hesitate a twelvemonth, when a moment
sufficed for a decision, and the good and happiness of others were concerned in the deciding?
And it was not merely his way, as has been made sufficiently apparent,--it was his wife's way,
and his daughter's.

Yet fain would Pauline have entered now upon a discussion of what remained to be done; she
could have gone on from this point at which they suddenly found themselves standing so wistfully;
she would have made, in advance, every needful preparation and arrangement for Elizabeth, up
to the time of her return. But Adolphus was in no mood for this. He must go and see Colonel
Farel, he said, by way of excuse, --and he must see the doctor. It would have been a dangerous
experiment, had Pauline persisted in the endeavor to discover how much he could endure. Montier
felt that he was not fit for family deliberation now, and wisely made his escape from it.

"I know," said Pauline, when she and her child were left together, "I know why it is the best
thing in the world for you to go on this voyage,--but--I do not know how you came by the sudden
wish to go, --or if it is sudden, Elizabeth."

No demand,--no confidence required,--not a request, even, to enter into any secret counsel
with her child. But that child saw the relation in which she stood to the loving woman by her
side, whose eyes were gazing into her eyes, whose love was seeking to fathom her heart, and
she answered humbly, and with confidence,--

"I am going to your old home, my mother,--and to see if it is true that Manuel is to die here
in this abhorred prison. It is my secret, --it is my errand. I trust you, for you love me;
oh, love me, my mother, and trust me! I dare not live, I cannot endure my freedom, while he
is wearing out his life in a prison. Am I ill? Has it worn me to see him, this year past, dying
by inches? I am glad of it,--I am proud of it! Now I will see if there is any pity or justice
among rulers."

Pauline Montier was confounded by this outbreak. She had expected no such word as this she
heard. It terrified her, for she was a loving woman, and she thought she heard in the voice
of her daughter the voice of a woman who loved,--the impassioned, daring voice of one whom
love incited to action such as sober reason never would attempt. She repented already the words
she had spoken to her husband. She had no power then, could not prevail then, or the misgivings
which sent Adolphus weeping into the wood, and not in search of doctor or colonel, would have
drawn him back to her side, and against their love and their authority this girl had not prevailed.
A question trembled on her lips. But how should she ask it of her child? She could not ask
it of her child,--but as woman of woman. The simplest and the shortest speech was best; and
far away were curiosity and authority.

"Elizabeth, do you love this prisoner?"

The answer did not linger.

"He is dying,--a noble man perishing unrighteously! Oh, my mother, in that land there is a
lady waiting to know why the arm of the Lord so long delays! He shall not die a prisoner! She
loves him,--he loves her. I will give them to each other. Only keep him alive till I come."

"My child!"

"Why do you weep?"--but Elizabeth, so speaking, bowed to the floor by her mother's side, and
wept with her, and the tender arms maternal clasped her close; and the girl did not see when
her mother's eyes looked upward, nor did she hear when her mother's voice said, with a saint's
entreaty, and a lover's faith, "O Saviour!"

That night Elizabeth went for the tray which her father had left in the prisoner's room when
he carried him his supper. No danger that Adolphus would stand to gossip now with any man,
for a moment. His heart was sore at the prospect of his daughter's departure, at the prospect
of actual separation, every feature of which state of being he distinctly anticipated; and
yet he would have scorned himself, had he thrown in the way anything like the shadow of an
impediment to her departure from Foray. So far from that, he was already doing everything,
in act and thought, by which that going might be made more certain and immediate.

Elizabeth found the prisoner sitting before his untasted supper. She went up the room at a
rapid pace.

"Strength does not come of fasting," said she, as she glanced at the table.

"Appetite does not come of torpor," was the reply, spoken almost as quickly; he seemed to be
echoing her tone. She looked at him surprised; so much energy of speech she had not expected
of him, and never before had heard.

"I must wait for the tray," said she; and she took her usual stand by the window. "Eat something
to please my mother,--she will be so troubled."

At this he took his spoon and tasted the porridge, which had grown cold in the dish before him.

Now, as she stood there waiting, a curious state of mind was that through which Elizabeth passed.
When he answered her greeting, it was with less apparent weariness, less exhibition of sad
indifference to all things, than usual,--with some animation, indeed; not at all as one speaks
who is dead to every hope. And with this utterance, which on any other day would have lightened
the burden Elizabeth bore, a new darkening of the spirit of heaviness seemed to fall upon her.
She knew that by her he must have come to--whatever hopefulness he had; and she would give
him freedom that she might see his face no more!

"There is no crucifixion without pain." It is never with a light heart that man or woman attends
his or her own immolation. There is awful terror in the triumphs of the divine human nature.
If, indeed, Suttee is noiseless, superstition and force have stifled the voice of the widow.

And therefore the words which Elizabeth only by an effort restrained, as she crossed the prison-threshold,
could come from her now by effort only. If she had found him drooping, despairing, utterly
cast down,--no hinderance then to a full utterance of the heroic purpose which death alone
could dampen or defeat! But now some strength seemed in himself--and liberty would give him
to others, of whom he could not think as quietly as he could think of her. Could she, then,
better afford to weep than to rejoice with him?

Before he had pushed away the table and its contents, before time constrained her to speak,
she said,--

"I promised you something, Mr. Manuel. You remember what. I may go tomorrow. So tell me,--how
shall I serve you best? Tell me now; something may happen; and I wish my work to be clear."

The prisoner started from the table at these words. He hastily approached the quiet speaker,
his face brightened not more by hope than by wondering admiration.

"What do you mean?--tomorrow? I am waiting, Elizabeth."

"Colonel Farel and his lady are going home. He has leave of absence. I have spoken to my father
and mother. I have told my mother everything. She knows that I am going to visit your relations
as well as hers. Tell me how I shall find them. Tell me what I must do. You shall have freedom,
if woman can ask or man can give it."

She had advanced a single step towards him, in thus speaking. She stood now with hands folded,
quiet, waiting his answer.

"Noble girl!" he began; then he paused. Full of reverence was his gaze.

"Do not praise,--direct me," she said, hurriedly. "I know what I shall say. But to whom shall
I say it?--Yes, I will find her whom you love. I will carry balm across the sea to heal her
breaking heart. I will join together whom,"--here for an instant she hesitated, then began
again,--"whom God has joined, whom man dared separate. Direct me, Sir."

And there she stood, waiting. Who sighing beholds her? No pusillanimity there; but on the very
heights of danger, which none other than the bravest could have gained, dauntless and safe,
let her stand and fight her battle. So strong, yet so defenceless, so conspicuous for purpose
and position there, the arrows rain upon her, --yet not one is poisoned to the power of hurting
her sacred life. Listen, Elizabeth, while he speaks of her! Deeply can his voice grave every
word of direction; not one wilt thou lose! Chosen of the few from among the many called, go,
woman to love, and hero to endure, --yea, if thou must, as gentle and dauntless martyr, to
die before the stronghold thou wouldst summon to surrender!

Later in the day the prisoner heard Elizabeth singing, as not rarely he heard her,--for, knowing
that the sound of her voice was pleasant to him, and that its cheerfulness cheered him, she
had the habit of frequenting with her songs that part of the house in which his room was. The
prisoner heard her singing later in the day, and thanked her for the grace, but did not catch
the words whose sound swept past him. It was an ancient hymn she sang,--one that she often
sang; and that she sang it this day of all days, I copy here the first verse:--

  "Sing, my tongue, the glorious battle,
    With completed victory rife,
  And above the Cross's trophy
    Tell the triumph of the strife,
  How the world's Redeemer conquered
    By surrendering of his life."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Drummer's Daughter has crossed the sea,--has landed on the shores of Fatherland. She has
even parted from her fellow-voyagers at the station whence the coach shall take her on to Chalons,
that venerable town and well-beloved, where the lives whence her own sprung were born and blended.
She is in the land of wonders, of meadows, vineyards, gardens, lakes, and rivers, and of cattle
feeding on a thousand hills,--among the graves of millions of men, among the works of heroes
and of martyrs, in the land of mighty towns, of palaces, of masters, and of slaves, where a
great king is building the great palace which shall witness, centuries hence, the dire humiliation
of his race.

Of all the crowds and companies that hurry to and fro from one end of the land to the other,
Elizabeth seeks only two persons. It is not to her father's native town that she is drawn by
the superior attraction. She passes Chalons in the moonlight. When the coach stops at the inn-door
for a change of horses, she keeps her place, --she acts not with the quicker beating of her
heart. She looks about her as they drive through the silent streets,--out on the moonlit landscape
when they have passed the borders of the town; she sees the church-towers, and the old buildings,
and the river whose windings she has heard described so often by the voices that once talked
of love all along its borders. Chalons is dear to her; she looks back with tearful longing
when the driver hurries on his horses as they pass into the open country. But she has no right
to wait on her own pleasure,--to verify her parents' calculations when they talk together,
by the fireside in Foray, of her journeying through Fatherland.

No,--each sunrise appoints him one more day of imprisonment and exile! Every sunset leaves
him to one more night of cruel dreams which morning shall deride! And while this can be said,
what has Chalons, or any other spot on earth, that it should lure her into rest?

The higher powers sometimes convey their messages and do their work after a prosaic fashion.
It was no uncommon thing for a young girl in neat raiment to stand waiting admittance before
the door of the Château Desperiers. Hospitality was called upon in those days not so often,
perhaps, as benevolence; and for its charity the chateau had a reputation far and wide; the
expectation of the poor perished only in fruition there.

Into the library of this ancient mansion Elizabeth Montier was ushered by the old gray servant.
There she might wait the return of his mistress; at what hour the return should be anticipated
he could not undertake to say. His counsel to the stranger was, that she had better return
at a later hour; but when Elizabeth said it was impossible, that she had come from a great
distance to see the lady of the place, and must await her return there, he led her without
further parley to the library, and left her.

And from its lofty windows, at her leisure, she might now look down upon the prospect Prisoner
Manuel had described. When she crossed the threshold of that room, she knew where she was;
left alone, she looked around her. There he once had stood; there he had parted from Madeline
Desperiers; from that last interview he had gone forth to long captivity! She stood by the
lofty, narrow windows, to see what he had seen when standing before them,--that town the ancient
Desperiers laid out for his tenants in the ancient days,--the church, the pond, the park,--the
garden, so vast, and so astonishing for beauty, the gazer scarce believed her eyes. And she
remembered beds of flowers under a prison-wall, and who that day looked on them.

He had said that the mistress of this grand domain was a soldier's daughter. He had said that
she was a grand lady. A soldier's daughter had come here to hold an interview with her! A drummer's
daughter, a girl from out the barracks and the prison of Foray, was here!--A strange light,
so strange that it seemed not natural, broke from these reflections of Elizabeth, and illuminated
the library. It fell on the great bookcases that were filled from floor to ceiling with books
which cost a fortune, on the great easy-chairs black with age, on picture and on bust, on the
old writing-stand, the more modern centre-table piled with newspapers and pamphlets, on the
curious clock that told the hours with a "silverey voice." It fell, too, on a portrait that
did not often greet the gaze even of such as found access into that room,--a portrait of him
for whose sake she was here, having compassed land and sea.

When she first saw the picture, she was sitting in one of the chairs beside the table,--her
eyes had taken cognizance of everything but that,--and of that became aware so strangely that
she could not at first persuade herself of the nature of the mystery that took such hold of
her and possessed her so wholly. A proud and glorious vision, it rose up before her, emerging
from the shadows of the alcove where it stood. This was not Manuel, not the wan prisoner of
Foray,--but her heart needed none to tell her it was the hero who had loved the lady of this
château in the splendor of his manhood. She saw it, and saw nothing more,--the prescience of
her soul was satisfied. As he was, she beheld him now;--was it safe for her to sit there gazing
at that likeness?

The old servant, who now and then walked up and down the hall, perceiving that the stranger
was sitting quiet, with her eyes generally in one direction, was satisfied that she should
prove so patient with this long delay in his mistress's return. He knew not what occupied her
eyes or thoughts,--fancied, may-be, that she was numbering the books of the library, or engaged
in some equally diverting occupation.

At last came Madeline.

Learning from the servant in the hall that a young person waited her return, and had waited
half the day, with a patience that was evidently proof against time, the lady proceeded at
once to the library.

Elizabeth, who heard the arrival, and the approach, arose and stood, waiting the meeting. In
her hand she held a paper scroll, the drawing of Foray, which she had brought to aid her in
this interview.

It was, indeed, a royal person upon whom the eyes of the Drummer's Daughter fell,--a person
whose dignity and grace held at a distance even those whom they attracted. Nothing short of
reverence could have dictated the movement of any noble mind that had to do with her. She was
the Sister of Mercy, whom the whole country round about knew for the most righteous Desperiers
of them all. The noble line was ending nobly in her pure and lofty and most gracious womanhood.
She was the star of society, if the "sweet influences" might only be bound,--no comet, no fiery
splendor of intellect or passion, but a pure light that would still shine through all paling,
and enter with its own distinct ray into the last absorption.

She approached to meet her guest with a kind and frank expression of regret that she should
have been kept waiting so long.

Beholding her, remembering him, strong even through her sense of impotence, Elizabeth unrolled
the pencilling of Foray. The moment during which she was thus occupied passed in silence; then
she looked up and spoke, with the coldness in which her embarrassment and emotion sought disguise.

"I came here with a message,--on an errand," said she; "and I have come so far, that, finding
myself really in this house, I did not like to leave it again till I had seen the lady I sought.
I knew that it would give you pain, if you could know the whole."

"Tell me the whole," was the reply, spoken with evident and encouraging approval of the stranger's
mode of address; and the lady sat down in the great chair on one side of the table. "Be seated;
tell me your wish."

"It is to serve you," said Elizabeth, a little proudly. "I have not come to ask favor for myself
or mine. I came across the sea for you and him."

She spoke now with vehemence, and as she spoke glanced at the portrait in the alcove. Quickly
the eyes of Madeline Desperiers followed hers. How had this stranger managed to discover what
was so securely hidden from the observation of ordinary eyes? She did not even suspect the
light which had illumined that dim recess, and made it brighter to the gazer than the bright
garden even.

"This is Foray," said Elizabeth, exposing now the token that would instantly make all plain
and equal between them. "I should have sent it to you, Madam, when I wrote; but there was more
to be done,--and so I came. I am Elizabeth Montier. I am a soldier's daughter; so, he said,
are you."

The lady's answer was not at first by speech. She arose, swiftly as light moves she moved,
and brought her guest up to the window of the shadowy room. Well she scanned the face of Elizabeth.

"Truth," she murmured. "It was you that wrote. You are Truth. You speak it. Blessings on you!
Blessings descend upon you from all the saints and heroes who have moved and suffered here!
Do you come from him,--Stephen Cordier?"

How proudly and how tenderly she spoke that name! To hear her soothed the heart of Elizabeth
Montier,--soothed her, and made her strong.

"Is that his name?" she asked, pointing to the portrait. "We call him Manuel." She paused a
moment, but not for an answer. Before Madeline could speak, she went on,--

"If you can hear me, I will tell you of him, and why I am here."

"Tell me all. I can bear to hear anything that you can endure to tell. You are his friend.
I claim you for mine, too. You came to find me. Speak."

This was the utterance of a calm self-knowledge. By what she had endured, the woman knew what
she could yet endure.

Without pause Elizabeth now spoke. Without interruption the lady listened,--listened while
this young stranger told the life of the past months, in which he was concerned,--of the garden
where she worked and he walked,--of her father, the musician,--of their old home near the barracks,
and the new home in the prison,--of the day when he first told her of his country and his love,--how
for him she had written the letter, repeating oftentimes in the narration the very words he
had used,--of his gestures, his looks;--she was thoughtful of all.

How strangely intelligent in all her communication! Ah, if it was eager love that hearkened,
it was thoughtful love that spoke!

The story, as she told it, was brief; but the voice never faltered in telling the tale, and
the eyes of Elizabeth, with constant scrutiny, were upon her listener. She was satisfied, when,
having said all, she paused, and had now no further fear for her own heart's integrity or of
the listener's constancy.

A long silence followed her speech. At length said Mlle. Desperiers,--

"I see it all. You are God's messenger from that other world. I have believed too little. You
are truer and wiser than I. Lead me, dear child! Shall we go to Foray? I will sail with you
tomorrow, if you say so. Better a prison, with him, than all this freedom, so alone."

"He must be set free, first," said Elizabeth. The manner of her speaking, her look as well
as her tone, might almost have been taken for a rebuke. Madeline might pardon that.

"I have said so," she answered, mildly. "I have tried to move heaven and earth. I was but a
feeble woman. Still it is a consolation to know that I have done everything my wit or my love
could devise, and not stopped at what looked like extravagance or indelicacy. What further,
Elizabeth? The man who is now in power, and through whom alone the king can be reached, will
grant him liberty"--

"He will?"

"At a price that would take away its value from him."

"What is that price?"

"My life. He wants me for his wife,--a purchase, you perceive."

Elizabeth Montier did not heed the scorn and bitterness of these words, as Mlle. Desperiers
spoke them. The blood in her veins seemed turning to fire,--it swept through her body and brain
like the flood of a volcano,--and she thought, she who knew the prisoner's life, and all that
captivity was to him,--

"Coward and selfish, that will not instantly give up her life for his!"

A very dismal satisfaction, that the woman he loved best should so prove unworthy of him! The
horror of that satisfaction, its humiliation and its pain, sufficiently attested to the poor
girl who endured it that her soul's integrity remained secure. As if for a personal conflict
with an enemy, she started to her feet.

"It must not be!" she exclaimed.

And, far from suspecting to whom the words were addressed, to what the speaker closed her eyes,
rebuking her pure heart, the lady answered,--

"Then, unless he outlives this tyranny of power, he will die a prisoner, Elizabeth. I will
go with you to him. I can die with him. God, certainly, does not require me to stay here longer,
for He has sent you to me."

"He has sent me for him!" exclaimed Elizabeth. "I am here to make him free." She did not add,
"If I were you, my life for his!" but again, in spite of her, she thought it, and a terrible
strength of pride possessed her at that moment.

"Speak on," was the eager, tremulous response. "You are here to set him free, God knows; but
at least I believe wholly in you. What will you do, Elizabeth?"

"Go to the officer tomorrow. Tell him everything that is to be told. If he is human"--

"That is what I doubt. He knows what petitions I presented and caused to be presented to his
predecessor."

"You?"

"I?--who but I? Do you think I have been idle, or that I have left anything undone that I could
think to do? Child, the sun has never risen on me since I saw him last! They say I am dead
to the world. But they who say it know not how terribly true their words are. Shall I tell
you how many times, when the weary days have come to an end, I have said, in the morning I
would make that loathsome bargain with General Saterges, and in the morning God's grace, as
I believe, has alone prevented me? Do you think that it is because I love myself better than
him, that I have not bought his freedom at this price? It is because I know him,--because I
am sure that liberty at such price would be worthless to him. I cannot torture him with the
belief that I am unfaithful, nor suffer him to look on me as a sacrifice. We can endure what
God allows. Trust me. You have done so bravely, you are yourself so true, believe in me. I
am really no coward. I am not a selfish woman."

"Forgive me," said Elizabeth, most humbly. Her pride had left her defenceless in its flight.
If there was not now the true, brave, generous woman to lift and proclaim herself from the
humiliation of her mistake, alas for her!

The woman was there,--ready and true,--was there. Humbled, yet resolute, she spoke,--and in
her speaking was the triumph of a spirit that should never again surrender its stronghold of peace.

"You must direct me, Madam. Show me how I shall find this minister. I will speak then as God's
servants spoke of old,--trusting in Him. If the man will not hear me, then I will conduct you
to Foray. You shall see Mr. Manuel. You can live--with us. My mother's heart is kind, and my
father is a soldier; we shall all love to serve you. Let us take courage! They cannot prevent
us here. You could endure exile for him?"

"Exile? Ah, how do you shame me! All these years I might have"--

"No," said Elizabeth, hurriedly. "Never till now. You could not. The way was not open till
this day. Love, too must have its servants. I am yours and his. I trust in God. In His time
he has opened His own way."

By Mlle. Desperiers's management, Elizabeth without difficulty obtained audience, the next
day, of the chief ministerial power of the realm.

I shall attempt no pictorial description of that interview. The men of authority know best
how often women come into their presence, burdened with prayers for the pardon of those who
have justly, or unjustly, fallen under the displeasure of the powers that be. From high station
and low Love draws its noblest and most courageous witnesses, and the ears of the officials
are not always deaf.

The case of Stephen Cordier was of sufficient importance to come under discussion before the
governing power as often as that power underwent a change in person or policy. Twice petitions
in his behalf had been presented,--once by the lady of Château Desperiers in person,--petitions
that were in themselves the proudest praise of him, the greatest honor that could be conferred
upon him. They had fallen powerless to the ground.

The old man, statesman and soldier, now holding office, had, before he came to this position,
knowing the interest and the kind of interest taken by Madeline Desperiers in the petitions
presented, volunteered his name to the last document, mentioning, though with due deference
to the fashion of the world, the price at which it was to be procured,--her hand. His name
had just the weight that would have made the other more honorable names successful in their
pleading. What sort of success was to be expected, now that he occupied the passage to royalty?
Elizabeth Montier crossed the threshold of the apartment where the old warrior and statesman
sat amongst books and papers, without dismay ruling by pen and voice, as confident in himself,
when he took up these weapons, as in the former time of sword and powder.

His practice was to receive all petitioners,--all should have audience. But he made short work
of business. Never were affairs dispatched with more celerity, seldom with less conscience.
At a glance his keen eye read, to his own satisfaction, the state of every case,--and he came
to his own conclusions. His requirement was, that the petitioner should be self-possessed and
brief,--which requisition, hinted by the doorkeeper, and reiterated by the General himself,
had not always precisely the effect intended.

The fault was not in Mlle. Desperiers that she had proved so unsuccessful in her petitions,
as has been made sufficiently clear. General Saterges had found in Stephen Cordier a powerful
antagonist in action. He had moved to power through the very paths which Stephen Cordier had
attempted to lay waste. He upheld the faith against which Cordier had preached a crusade. The
old warrior regarded the young thinker as a personal enemy. It was hardly probable that he
would very energetically strive to procure the reversal of a hard sentence in behalf of such a man.

As Adolphus Montier's daughter came into his presence, she had not the bearing common to such
as appeared there with intent to plead for the life or liberty of those they loved. A sense
of the sacredness of her mission was upon her. She had cried to God, and she believed that
He had heard her. Where do the possibilities of such faith end? And these all, having obtained
a good report through faith, received not the promise."

She had considered well what she would do and say, and did not forget and was not confounded
when she stood before the old man, knowing her time had come. Calm and strong, because so bent
on accomplishing her purpose, and so conscious of her past secret weakness, of her suspicion
and cruel judgment, as if she would here atone for it, she took stern vengeance of herself.

General Saterges recognized at one glance the evidences of a strong and determined spirit.
When she had crossed the room and stood before him, he requested her to be seated,--and it
was the first time that he had made such request of such visitor.

Declining the civility, Elizabeth stood, and told her errand. She had come across the ocean,
she said, to plead the cause of a poor prisoner who was dying under sentence of the law. She
paused a moment, having made this statement, and was answered by a nod. Prisoners often died
without reprieve, he seemed to be aware. This cold civility warmed the petitioner's speech.
Her mother would have been satisfied, Madeline Desperiers would have been overwhelmed with
grief and horror, to have heard this young girl's testimony in regard to prison-life. The old
man, as he listened, sighed unconsciously, --for not every nerve in him was strung to cruelty.
To one of his restless career what image of life more dreadful could have been presented than
was in this testimony? To be shut away from human society so many years, patient, resigned,
receiving the few comforts yet allowed him!--to live on, pure in spirit, lofty in thought,
hoping still in God and man! The old warrior in self-defence, because she brought the case
too vividly, the life too forcibly before him, broke through the words she was speaking, interrupting
her.

"Who is this person?" he asked.

"Stephen Cordier," was the answer. Without hesitation, even proudly, she spoke it. She had
compelled him to ask the name!

"And who are you?" he asked; and if he felt displeasure, as if his sympathy, of which he was
so chary, had been stolen from him, he did not allow it to appear.

"Elizabeth Montier," she replied.

"That is no answer. What is a name, if it conveys no meaning to my mind?"

"I am the daughter of Adolphus and Pauline Montier. My father is a drummer in the military
band of Foray. He is also present keeper of the prison where Stephen Cordier is confined."

"Very well. Does he know your errand here?"

"He does not. He let me come to this country,--it is his native land, and my mother's,--he
let me come because in his heart he has always loved his country, and he has never been able
to return. We were to have come back together. But there was an opportunity for me. I dared
not wait. So I am here,--and for nothing, Sir, but this man's liberty."

Those last words she spoke seemed to quicken the thought of General Saterges. He drew himself
up still more erect in his chair. His eyes were on Elizabeth with the will to scan her heart
of hearts. He spoke, --

"What is this man to you?"

She paused a moment. And she, too, had a thought. She could play a game for life. She looked
at the old man, hesitated, answered,--

"He is everything."

"Just let me understand you," and he looked upon her as if he might touch her secret. "Do you
love Cordier?"

"I love him," she answered, with exceeding dignity, evident truthfulness.

"Do I understand you?" he said again,--"what are you to him?"

"Everything," she again replied, with perfect confidence and faith. Was she not liberty and
the joy of life to him? If liberty and joy were ever to be his portion, they must come through
her. So she believed, and thus answered.

"Does he love you?"

"Yes."

"You speak with great assurance. I know the man better, I'm afraid." Then his voice and manner
changed. "He is sentenced. Justice passed that sentence;--to reverse it were the work of imbecility.
Speak no more. It is not in man to grant what you ask."

He was trying her in her last stronghold,--proving her in her last depth.

"Is this your answer?" she asked. And indeed, after what had just passed between them, it did
seem incredible.

The old man bowed. He seemed now impassible. He was stern, and hard as rock. He believed that
he had wellnigh been deceived,--and deception practised successfully on him would have disgraced
him in his own eyes forever. He believed, what he would not trust his lips to utter, that this
applicant was Madeline Desperiers's agent. When he bowed and did not answer, a fear came down
upon Elizabeth that almost took away her power of speech; that it did not quite deprive her
of that power rendered it so much the more terrible for the anguish of its emphasis.

"Do women kneel to you when they ask the pardon of those they love?" said she, with a paling
face. "What shall I do to move you? What have I not done? I trusted, that, having come so far,
on such an errand, it must be that God was my leader. Am I mistaken? Or dare you withstand
God? Tell me,--you are an old man,--have you no pity? Have you never had a sorrow? Can you
not see that I never could have come here to plead for a bad man's life? Must I go back to
see him die?"

"Madam, you are standing where I cannot come to argue with you. Pity and justice have their
respective duties to perform. Oftentimes pity may be exercised, and the claims of justice waived;
in the case of the man you plead for, it is simply impossible."

He had risen in displeasure to pronounce these final words. When that word "impossible" smote
her as a sword, he touched a spring in the table, a bell sounded, Elizabeth went forth,--the
audience was over.

She went not with tears, but self-possessed, imperious in mien, strong in despair. Coming into
the presence of Madeline Desperiers, it was not needful that she should speak to make known
the result of her audience.

"Have you learned when the vessel sails?" was her first question. It was her reply to the lady's
glance,--a glance for which there were no attendant words in all the language.

"Tomorrow, Elizabeth."

"Are you ready?"

"I will be."

"Then I will give you to him. I promised that, too. I can fulfill that, at least. You must
not think the prison-walls too dreary. My mother"--

"I understand, Elizabeth."

And they sailed on the morrow. No delay for wandering among the meadows of the pleasant town,
for gossip with the men and women who were in childhood playmates of her father and her mother;
no strolling along lovely river-banks. Chalons had nothing for Elizabeth; only one green nook
of all the world had anything for her,--an island in the sea,--a prison on that island,--and
there work to do worthy of Gabriel.

But--wonder of wonders!

Paul and Silas sang songs in their prison, and the jailer heard them; then there came an earthquake.

Who was he that found his cell-doors opened suddenly, and a messenger from out the courts of
heaven there to guide his steps?

History is full of marvellous records; I add this to those. The eleventh hour goes always freighted
with the weightiest events.

On board the vessel that carried Elizabeth and her charge back to Foray went a messenger commissioned
of the king. He took from court to prison the partial pardon of Cordier. Liberty, but banishment
henceforth. Stephen Cordier should be constrained to faithfulness towards his new love. Doomed
to perpetual exile, he should be tempted by no late loyalty to Madeline Desperiers. The new
acts of his drama should have nought to do with her. Justice forever!

Rascal that he was, according to the word of General Saterges, it was rascality which the General
could pardon. He had gained many a victory in desperate strife,--now one other, the last and
most complete: the kingdom's fairest star to shine among his honors! The proclamation of Stephen
Cordier's pardon would instantly make broad the way to Château Desperiers. She came of a proud
race, and he reckoned on her pride.

Let us not glory in that old man's defeat,--for he died ere his enemy received, through Elizabeth
Montier, life, and the joy of life. Let us not call him by an evil name to whom the nation
gave so fine a funeral,--but rather pause to listen to the music that comes forth in royal
glory from the harmonious world of Adolphus,--and turn to look with loving reverence, not with
doubt or wonder, and surely not with pity, on the serene face of Her Grace, the Drummer's Daughter.

  WORK AND REST.

  What have I yet to do?
    Day weareth on,--
  Flowers, that, opening new,
  Smiled through the morning's dew,
    Droop in the sun.

  'Neath the noon's scorching glare
    Fainting I stand;
  Still is the sultry air,
  Silentness everywhere
    Through the hot land.

  Yet must I labor still,
    All the day through,--
  Striving with earnest will
  Patient my place to fill,
    My work to do.

  Long though my task may be,
    Cometh the end.
  God 'tis that helpeth me,
  His is the work, and He
    New strength will lend.

  He will direct my feet,
    Strengthen my hand,
  Give me my portion meet;--
  Firm in his promise sweet
    Trusting I'll stand.

  Up, then, to work again!
    God's word is given
  That none shall sow in vain,
  But find his ripened grain
    Garnered in heaven.

  Longer the shadows fall,--
    Night cometh on;
  Low voices softly call,
  "Come, here is rest for all!
    Labor is done!"

COLIN CLOUT AND THE FAËRY QUEEN.

  EDMUND SPENSER IN A DOMESTIC POINT OF VIEW.
  HIS MISTRESS AND HIS WIFE.

PART I.--HIS MISTRESS.

The "Faëry Queen" of Edmund Spenser is before us,--a vast and glittering mausoleum, in which
the purpose of the constructor has long been entombed, we fear without hope of a happy resurrection.
Nevertheless, into this splendid ruin, hieroglyphed with the most brilliant images the modern
mind has yet conceived, we are about to dig,--not with the impious desire of dragging forth
the intellectual tenant, now in the fourth century of its everlasting repose, but, haply, to
discover in the outer chambers and passages of the pyramid some relics of the individual architect,
his family and mode of life. In fact, we are anxious to make the acquaintance of Mistress Spenser
and introduce her to the American public. A slight sketch of the poet's life, up to the period
of his marriage, may afford us some clue to the quarter from which he selected his bride; we
shall therefore give what is known of him in the fewest possible words.

Edmund Spenser, by family, was English, and by birth a cockney.

At what time of his life he became connected with Ireland is very uncertain; it was probably
early. At or about the time of Sir Henry Sidney's vice-royalty, or in the interval between
that and the lieutenancy of Lord Grey De Wilton, there was a "Mr. Spenser" actively and confidentially
employed by the Irish government; and that this may have been the poet is, from collateral
circumstances, far from improbable. Spenser was the friend and protégé of Sir Philip Sidney,
(son of the before-named Sir Henry,) and of his uncle, the Earl of Leicester. Lord Grey De
Wilton was by marriage connected with both, and lived with them on terms of the closest intimacy,
social, literary, and political. In choosing an officer, then, for so important a post as that
of secretary, whom would the one select or the others more confidently recommend than a young
man of genius, known to all the parties, and who already had some knowledge and experience
of Irish affairs? Be this as it may, we know that in 1580, Spenser, then in his twenty-seventh
year, accompanied Lord Grey De Wilton into Ireland as secretary; and that he had been there
before, in some official capacity not undistinguished, is evidenced by the fact, that the Lord
Justice, previously to his arrival, speaks of him as "having many ways deserved some consideration
from her Majesty."

We do not care to inquire into the peculiar services for which he was so speedily favored with
a large grant of lands forfeited by the Desmonds. Such official transactions, we fear, would
reflect little credit on the poet; no doubt he was a good man--according to the morality of
his age; and if he did suggest the poisoning of a few thousand human beings of all ages and
both sexes, (some go so far as to allege that his fervid imagination contemplated the utter
extermination of the race,) he merely acted up to the opinions prevalent in the time and polished
court of "Good Queen Bess." The beings were "mere Irishry,"--a stumbling-block in the path
of British civilization, and therefore to be removed, per fas et nefas.

Spenser took up his residence on the forfeit lands in Cork; there married, and reared a family
which inherited his estate; that he subsequently died in England was as mere a casualty as
that by which Swift was born in Ireland. Certain it is that the greater and the better portion
of his works in prose and verse was composed during his residence in the land of his adoption.
Thus, in the sonnets appended to the "Faëry Queen," the poem on which his celebrity rests,
he addresses this Earl of Ormond:--

  "Receive, most noble lord, a single taste
  Of the wilde fruit which savage soyle hath bred;
  Which, beeing through long wars left almost waste,
  With brutish barbarisme is overspred."

Again, addressing himself to his patron, Lord Grey, he says,--

  "Rude rimes, the which a rustick nurse did weave
  In savage soyle, far from Parnasso Mount."

Several other of the finest productions of his brain owe their birth to the "savage soyle"
of Ireland; his descriptions of the country, his dialogue on Irish affairs, his "Amoretti"
and "Colin Clout's come home again," belong confessedly to this category.

Having discovered thus much about the poet, we now strike out in a new direction in search
of his better half. Upon this point, unfortunately, there hangs a mist,--not impenetrable,
as we conceive, but yet impenetrated,--a secret to which the given clue has been neglected,
and which remains to the present day the opprobrium of a careless biography. The fact and the
date of his marriage in Ireland are obtained from his own writings; but, further than that
her name was Elizabeth,--a fact recorded by himself,--the lady of his choice remains unknown,
her maiden name and family. Mere trifles these, to be sure,--but interesting in an antiquarian
point of view,--and valuable, perhaps, should the inquiry hereafter lead some more than usually
acute bookworm into the real mystery and meaning, the main drift of that inexplicable "Faëry
Queen."

One difficulty in the matter is, that Edmund appears to have been a "susceptible subject."
He was twice attacked with the tender malady, and records, in glowing numbers, his passion
for two mistresses. One he calls Rosalinde, and celebrates in the "Shepherd's Calendar"; the
other, Elizabeth, to whom he was undoubtedly married, is the theme of admiration in his "Amoretti."
Rosalinde was his early love; Elizabeth, the passion of his maturer years. When six-and-twenty,
hopeless of Rosalinde, he wound up his philomel complainings of her cruelty by a formal commission
to his friend Gabriel Harvey (Hobbinoll) to declare his suit at an end:--

  "Adieu, good Hobbinoll, that was so true;
  Tell Rosalinde her Colin bids adieu."

It took him fourteen years--surely a sufficient time!--to recover from this disappointment;
for he is in his forty-first year, when, in his Sixtieth Sonnet, he represents himself as having
been then one year enamored of Elizabeth:--

  "So since the winged god his planet cleare
  Began in me to move, one yeare is spent;
  The which doth longer unto me appears
  Than all those fourty which my life outwent."

That Rosalinde was not, as has been somewhat rashly conjectured, the poetic name of Elizabeth,
is conclusively established by a poem written between 1591 and 1595, in which he speaks of
some insurmountable barrier between them, why "her he might not love." [1] The wife he loved,
and the mistress between whose love and him there existed such a barrier, could not have been
the same person, it is evident. But who this fair and false Rosalinde was, though known to
many of his contemporaries, has become a mystery. That she was a real personage is placed beyond
cavil by "E.K.," the ostensible editor of the "Shepherd's Calendar"; and he has given us a
clue to her name, if we have but the wit to follow it. Now "E.K." we more than shrewdly suspect
to have been either Spenser himself, or his friend Gabriel Harvey, or both together. Two more
egregious self-laudators are not to be found in the range of English literature: Spenser loses
no opportunity of puffing "Colin Clout"; and Harvey was openly charged by Thomas Nash with
having forged commendatory epistles and sonnets in his own praise, under the name of Thorius
etc. "E.K.," therefore, must be considered as pretty high authority; and what says "E.K."?
Why, this: "Rosalinde is also a feigned name, which, being well ordered, will bewray the verie
name of his love and mistresse." By "well ordering" the "feigned name" E.K. undoubtedly means
disposing or arranging the letters of which it is composed in some form of anagram or metagram,--a
species of wit much cultivated by the most celebrated poets of the time, Spenser included,
and not deemed beneath the dignity of the learned Camden to expound.

A few examples of this "alchemy of wit," as Camden calls it, will reconcile our modern notions
of the [Greek: to trepon] with the puerile ingenuity thought graceful, at that unripe period
of our literature, by some of the most accomplished writers and readers of the day. Let us
take an extravagant instance. Sir Philip Sidney, having abridged his own name into Phil. Sid.,
anagrammatized it into Philisides. Refining still further, he translated Sid., the abridgment
of sidus, into [Greek: astron], and, retaining the Phil., as derived from [Greek: philos],
he constructed for himself another pseudonym and adopted the poetical name of Astrophil. Feeling,
moreover, that the Lady Rich, celebrated in his sonnets, was the loadstar of his affections,
he designates her, in conformity with his own assumed name, Stella. Christopher Marlow's name
is transmuted into Wormal, and the royal Elizabetha is frequently addressed as Ah-te-basile!
Doctor Thomas Lodge, author of "Rosalinde; or Euphues, his Golden Legacy," (which Shakspeare
dramatized into "As you like it,") has anagrammatized his own name into Golde,--and that of
Dering into Ringde. The author of "Dolarney's Primrose" was a Doctor Raynolde. John Hind, in
his "Eliosto Libidinoso," transmutes his own name into Dinchin Matthew Roydon becomes Donroy.
And Shakspeare, even, does not scruple to alchemize the Resolute John, or John Florio, into
the pedantic Holofernes of "Love's Labor's Lost." A thousand such fantastic instances of "trifling
with the letter" might be quoted; and even so late as the reign of Queen Anne we find this
foolish wit indulged. The cynical Swift[2] stoops to change Miss Waring into Varina; Esther
(quasi Aster, a star) Johnson is known as Stella; Essy Van-homrigh figures as Vanessa; while
Cadenus, by an easy change of syllables, is resolved into Decanus, or the Dean himself in propriâ
personâ and canonicals.

In the "Shepherd's Calendar," the very poem in which Spenser's unknown mistress figures as
Rosalinde, the poet has alchemized Grindal, Archbishop of Canterbury, into Algrind, and made
Ellmor, Bishop of London, Morell, (it is to be hoped he was so before,) by merely transposing
the letters. What wonder, then, if, complying with an art so general and convenient, he should
be found contriving, in the case of both his mistresses at once, to reveal his passion and
conceal the name of his enslaver from the public gaze?

The prolific hint of "E.K." set the commentators at work,--but hitherto without success. The
author of the life prefixed to Church's edition conjectures Rose Linde,--forsooth, because
it appears from Fuller's "Worthies," that in the reign of Henry the Sixth--only eight reigns
too early for the birth of our rural beauty--there was one John Linde, a resident in the County
of Kent! Not satisfied with this conjecture, Malone suggests that she may have been an Eliza
Horden--the z changed, according to Camden's rules, into s, and the aspirate sunk. Malone's
foundation for this theory is, that one Thomas Horden was a contemporary of John Linde, aforesaid,
and resided in the same county! Both these conjectures are absurd and unsupported by any collateral
evidence. To have given them the remotest air of probability, the critics should have proved
some acquaintance or connection between the parties respectively, --some courtship, or contiguity
of residence, which might have brought the young people within the ordinary sphere of attraction.
Wrong as they were in their conclusions, the search of these commentators was in the right
direction. The anagram, "well-ordered," will undoubtedly bewray the secret. Let us try if we
may not follow it with better success.

Rosalinde reads, anagrammatically, into Rose Daniel; for, according to Camden, "a letter may
be doubled, or rejected, or contrariwise, if the sense fall aptly"; we thus get rid of the
redundant e, and have a perfect anagram. Now Spenser had an intimate and beloved friend and
brother-poet, named Samuel Daniel, author of many tragedies and comedies, an eight-canto poem
called "The Civil Wars of England," "A Vision of Twelve Goddesses," a prose history of England,
and "Musa," a defence of rhyme. Spenser alludes to his poetic genius with high praise in his
"Colin Clout." This Daniel had a sister named Rose, who was married in due time to a friend
of her brother's,--not, indeed, to Spenser, but to a scholar, whose eccentricities have left
such durable tracks behind them, that we can trace his mark through many passages of Spenser's
love complaints, otherwise unintelligible. The supposition that Rose Daniel was Rosalinde satisfies
every requisite, and presents a solution of the mystery; the anagram is perfect; the poet's
acquaintance with the brother naturally threw him into contact with the sister; while the circumstance
of her marriage with another justifies the complaint of infidelity, and accounts for the "insurmountable
barrier," that is, a living husband. Daniel was the early protégé of the Pembroke family, as
was Spenser of the house of Leicester. The youthful poets must often have met in the company
of their mutual friend, Sir Philip Sidney,--for the Countess of Pembroke was the "Sidney's
sister, Pembroke's mother," celebrated by Ben Jonson, and consequently niece, as Sir Philip
was nephew, of Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester. Rose and Edmund were thus thrown together
under circumstances every way favorable to the development of love in a breast so susceptible
as that of the "passionate shepherd."

Other circumstances in the life of Rose Daniel correspond so strikingly with those attributed
to Rosalinde, as strongly to corroborate the foregone conclusion.

Rosalinde, after having given encouragement to her enamored shepherd, faithlessly and finally
deserted him in favor of a rival. This is evident throughout the "Shepherd's Calendar." The
First Eclogue reveals his passion:--

  "I love thilk lass, (alas! why do I love?)
  And am forlorne, (alas! why am I lorn?)
  She deigns not my good will, but doth reprove,
  And of my rural music holdeth scorn."

Her scorn, however, may have meant no more than the natural coyness of a maiden whom the learned
Upton somewhat drolly designates as "a skittish female." [3] Indeed, Spenser must have thought
so himself, and with reason, for she continues to receive his presents, "the kids, the cracknels,
and the early fruit," sent through his friend Hobbinoll (Gabriel Harvey).

We hear of no alteration of his circumstances until we reach the Sixth Eclogue, in which the
progress and utter disappointment of his suit are distinctly and bitterly complained of. "This
eclogue," says the editorial "E.K.," "is wholly vowed to the complaining of Colin's ill-success
in love. For being (as is aforesaid) enamoured of a country lass, Rosalinde, and having (as
it seemeth) found place in her heart, he lamenteth to his dear friend Hobbinoll that he is
now forsaken unfaithfully, and in his stead Menalcas, another shepherd, received disloyally:
and this is the whole argument of the eclogue." In fact, she broke her plighted vow to Colin
Clout, transferred her heart to Menalcas, and let her hand accompany it.

Now, from this and the preceding circumstances, the inference appears inevitable that, at or
about the time of the composition of this Sixth Eclogue, the Rosalinde therein celebrated was
married, or engaged to be married, to the person denounced as Menalcas.

Whether the ante-nuptial course of Rose Daniel corresponded with the faithlessness ascribed
to Rosalinda we confess we have no documentary evidence to show: but this much is certain,
that Rose was married to an intimate friend of her brother's; and, from the characteristics
recorded of him by Spenser, we shall presently prove that that friend, the husband of Rosalinde,
is no other than the treacherous rival denounced as Menalcas in the "Shepherd's Calendar."
Who, then, is Menalcas?

Amongst the distinguished friends of Samuel Daniel was a man of much celebrity in his day,--the
redoubted, or, as he chose to call himself, the "Resolute" John Florio (Shakspeare's Holofernes).
This gentleman, an Italian by descent, was born in London in the same year with Spenser, and
was a class-fellow with Daniel at Oxford. He was the author of many works, well received by
the public,--as his "First Fruits," "Second Fruits," "Garden of Recreation," and so forth;
also, of an excellent Italian and English dictionary, styled "A World of Words,"--the basis
of all Anglo-Italian dictionaries since published. He was a good French scholar, as is proved
by his translation of Montaigne; and wrote some verses, highly prized by Elizabeth and her
successor, James I. Indeed, his general learning and accomplishments recommended him to both
courts; and, on the accession of James, he was appointed classical tutor to Prince Henry, and
reader of French and Italian to the Royal Consort, Anne of Denmark; he was also a Gentleman
of the Privy Chamber, and Clerk of the Closet to his Majesty; and, finally, it was chiefly
through his influence that Samuel Daniel was appointed Gentleman Extraordinary and Groom of
the Privy Chamber to Queen Anne.

Long prior to this prosperous estate, however, his skill as a linguist had recommended him
to the patronage and intimacy of many of the chief nobility of Elizabeth's court; and at an
early period of his life, we find him engaged, as was his friend Daniel, as tutor to some of
the most illustrious families,--such as Pembroke, Dudley, Essex, Southampton, etc.; [4] all
which, together with his friendship for Daniel, must needs have brought him into the acquaintance
of Edmund Spenser, the friend of Sidney and his relatives. He was also on the most friendly
terms with Gabriel Harvey, and a warm admirer (as his works attest) of the genius of Daniel.
We have thus gathered our dramatis personae, the parties most essentially interested in Spenser's
unlucky passion, into one familiar group.

Of Rose Daniel's marriage with the "Resolute John Florio" there is no manner of question. It
is recorded by Anthony á Wood in his "Athenæ Oxonienses," acknowledged by Samuel Daniel in
the commendatory verses prefixed to Florio's "World of Words," and she is affectionately remembered
in Florio's will as his "beloved wife, Rose." [5] Thus, if not Spenser's Rosalinde, she was
undoubtedly a Rosalinde to John Florio.

We shall now proceed to gather some further particles of evidence, to add their cumulative
weight to the mass of slender probabilities with which we are endeavoring to sustain our conjectures.

Spenser's Rosalinde had at least a smattering of the Italian. Samuel Daniel was an Italian
scholar; for his whole system of versification is founded on that model. Spenser, too, was
well acquainted with the language; for, long before any English version of Tasso's "Gerusalemme"
had appeared, he had translated many passages which occur in the "Faëry Queen" from that poem,
and--without any public acknowledgment that we can find trace of--appropriated them to himself.[6]
What more natural than that Rose should have shared her brother's pleasant study, and, in company
with him and Spenser, accepted the tuition of John Florio?

The identity of Florio's wife and Rosalinde may be fairly inferred from some circumstances
consequent upon the lady's marriage, and otherwise connected with her fortunes, which appear
to be shadowed forth with great acrimony in the "Faëry Queen," where the Rosalinde of the "Shepherd's
Calendar" appears before us again under the assumed name of Mirabella. Lest the ascription
of these circumstances to particular parties may be imputed to prejudice or prepossession for
a favorite theory, we shall state them on the authority of commentators and biographers who
never even dreamed of the view of the case we are now endeavoring to establish.

The learned Upton, in his preface to the "Faëry Queen," was led to observe the striking coincidence,
the absolute similarity of character, between Spenser's Rosalinde and his Mirabella. "If the
'Faëry Queen,'" quoth he, "is a moral allegory with historical allusions to our poet's times,
one might be apt to think, that, in a poem written on so extensive a plan, the cruel Rosalinde
would be in some way or other typically introduced; and methinks I see her plainly characterized
in Mirabella. Perhaps, too, her expressions were the same that are given to Mirabella,--'the
free lady,' 'she was born free,'" etc.[7]

"We are now come," says Mr. G.L. Craik, by far the most acute and sagacious of all the commentators
on Spenser, "to a very remarkable passage. Having thus disposed of Turpin, the poet suddenly
addresses his readers, saying,--

  'But turn we back now to that lady free
  Whom late we left riding upon an ass
  Led by a carle and fool which by her side did pass.'

"This is the 'fair maiden clad in mourning weed,' who, it may be remembered, was met, as related
at the beginning of the preceding canto, by Timias and Serena. There, however, she was represented
as attended only by a fool. What makes this episode especially interesting is the conjecture
that has been thrown out, and which seems intrinsically probable, that the 'lady' is Spenser's
own Rosalinde, by whom he had been, jilted, or at least rejected, more than a quarter of a
century before. His unforgetting resentment is supposed to have taken this revenge."

So far with Mr. Upton and Mr. Craik we heartily concur as to the identity of Rosalinde and
Mirabella; and feel confident that a perusal and comparison of the episode of Mirabella with
the whole story of Rosalinde will leave every candid and intelligent reader no choice but to
come to the same conclusion: We shall now collate the attributes assigned in common to those
two impersonations in their maiden state, and note the correspondence.

Both are of humble birth,--Rosalinde being described in the "Shepherd's Calendar" as "the widow's
daughter of the glen"; her low origin and present exalted position are frequently alluded to,--her
beauty, her haughtiness, and love of liberty. Mirabella is thus described in Book VI. "Faëry
Queen," Canto vii:--

  "She was a lady of great dignity,
  And lifted up to honorable place;
  Famous through all the land of Faërie:
  Though of mean parentage and kindred base,
  Yet decked with wondrous gifts of Nature's grace."

  "But she thereof grew proud and insolent,
  And scorned them all that lore unto her meant."

  "She was born free, not bound to any wight."

Of Rosalinde we hear in "Colin Clout" that her ambition is

  "So high in thought as she herself in place."

And that she

  "Loatheth each lowly thing with lofty eye."

Her beauty, too, is dwelt upon as a "thing celestial,"--her humble family alluded to,--the
boasted freedom of her heart; and upon Rosalinde and Mirabella an affectation of the demigoddessship,
which turned their heads, is equally charged. In all essential characteristics they are "twin
cherries growing on one stalk."

Of Rose Daniel's life so little is known, particularly during her unmarried years, that we
are unable to fasten upon her the unamiable qualities of the allegorical beauties we assume
to be her representatives; but if we can identify her married fortune with theirs,--then, in
addition to the congruities already mentioned, we can have no hesitation in imputing to her
the disposition which brought down upon them, so bitterly and relentlessly, the poetic justice
of the disappointed shepherd. We may thus dispose of them in brief.

Mirabella's lot was severe. She was married (if we rightly interpret the language of the allegory)
to a "fool,"--that is to say, to a very absurd and ridiculous person, under whose conduct she
was exposed to the "whips and scorns," the disdain and bitter retaliation, natural to the union
of a beautiful and accomplished, though vain and haughty woman, with a very eccentric, irritable,
and bombastic humorist.

Rosalinde was married--with no better fate, we fear--to the vain and treacherous Menalcas.

And Rose Daniel became the wife of the "Resolute John Florio."

We shall commence with the substantial characters, and see how their histories fall in with
the fortunes attributed to the allegorical. Rose Daniel's husband, maugre his celebrity and
places of dignity and profit, was beset with tempers and oddities which exposed him, more perhaps
than any man of his time, to the ridicule of contemporary wits and poets. In such a state of
mental alarm and physical vaporing did he live, that he seems to have proclaimed a promiscuous
war against all gainsayers,-- that is, the literary world; and for the better assurance to
them of his indomitable valor, and to himself of indemnity from disturbance, he adopted a formidable
prefix to his name; and to "any bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation," to every address,
prelude, preface, [8] introduction, or farewell, accompanying any of his numerous works, he
subscribed himself the Resolute,--"Resolute John Florio."

Conduct so absurd, coupled with some personal defects, and a character so petulantly vainglorious,
exposed the "Resolute" to the bitter sarcasm of contemporary writers. Accordingly we find him
through life encompassed by a host of tormentors, and presenting his chevaux-de-frise of quills
against them at all and every point. In the Epistle Dedicatory to the second edition of his
Dictionary, we find him engaged morsu et unguibus with a swarm of literary hornets, against
whom he inveighs as "sea-dogs,--land-critics, --monsters of men, if not beasts rather than
men,--whose teeth are cannibals',--their tongues adders' forks,--their lips asps' poison, --their
eyes basilisks',--their breath the breath of a grave,--their words like swords of Turks, which
strive which shall dive deepest into the Christian lying before them." Of a verity we may say
that John Florio was sadly exercised when he penned this pungent paragraph. He then falls foul
of the players, who--to use the technical phrase of the day--"staged" him with no small success.
"With this common cry of curs" in general, and with one poet and one piece of said poet's handiwork
in particular, he enters into mortal combat with such vehement individuality as enables us
at a glance to detect the offence and the offender. He says, "Let Aristophanes and his comedians
make plays and scour their mouths on Socrates, these very mouths they make to vilify shall
be the means to amplify his virtues," etc. "And here," says Doctor Warburton, "Shakspeare is
so clearly marked out as not to be mistaken." This opinion is fortified by the concurrence
of Farmer, Steevens, Reid, Malone, Knight, Collier, and Hunter; and, from the additional lights
thrown upon this subject by their combined intelligence, no doubt seems to exist that Holofernes,
the pedantic schoolmaster in "Love's Labor's Lost," had his prototype in John Florio, the Resolute.

"Florio," according to Farmer, "gave the first affront by asserting that 'the plays they play
in England are neither right comedies nor tragedies, but representations of histories without
any decorum.'" We know that Shakspeare must, of his own personal knowledge of the man, have
been qualified to paint his character; for while the great dramatist was the early and intimate
friend of the Earl of Southampton, the petulant lexicographer boasts of having for years been
domesticated in the pay and patronage of that munificent patron of letters. Warburton thinks
"it was from the ferocity of his temper, that Shakspeare chose for him the name which Rabelais
gives to his pedant of Thubal Holoferne." Were the matter worth arguing, we should say, it
was rather from the proclivity with which (according to Camden's rules) the abbreviated Latin
name Johnes Florio or Floreo falls into Holofernes. Rabelais and anagrammatism may divide the
slender glory of the product between them.

But neither Shakspeare's satire nor Florio's absurdities are comprehended within this single
character. Subsequent examination of the text of "Love's Labor's Lost" has enabled the critics
to satisfy themselves that the part of Don Adnano de Armado, the "phantastical courtier," was
devised to exhibit another phase in the character of the Resolute Italian. In Holofernes we
have the pedantic tutor; in Don Adriano a lively picture of a ridiculous lover and pompous
retainer of the court.

By a fine dramatic touch, Shakspeare has made each describe the other, in such a way that the
portrait might stand for the speaker himself, and thus establishes a dual-identity. Thus, Armado,
describing Holofernes, says, "That's all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for I protest
the schoolmaster is exceeding fantastical,--too, too vain,--too, too vain; but we will put
it, as they say, to fortuna della guerra";--whilst Holofernes, not behind his counterpart in
self-esteem, sees in the other the defects which he cannot detect in himself. I abhor such
fanatical phantasms," etc.

Should further proof be needed that Florio, Holofernes, and Armado form a dramatic trinity
in unity, we can find it in the personal appearance of the Italian. There was something amiss
with the face of the Resolute, which could not escape the observation of his friends, much
less his enemies. A friend and former pupil of his own,--Sir Wm. [9] It is certain, then, that,
behaving like a fool in some things, he looked very like a fool in others.

Is it not a remarkable coincidence, that both his supposed dramatic counterparts have the same
peculiarity? When Armado tells the 'country lass' he is wooing, that he will 'tell her wonders,'
she exclaims,--'skittish female' that she is,--'What, with that face?' And when Holofernes,
nettled with the ridicule showered on his abortive impersonation of Judas Maccabaeus, says,
'I will not be put out of countenance,'--Byron replies, 'Because thou hast no face.' The indignant
pedant justifies, and, pointing to his physiognomy, inquires, 'What is this?' Whereupon the
waggish courtiers proceed to define it: it is 'a cittern-head,' 'the head of a bodkin,' 'a
death's-face in a ring,' 'the face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen,' and so forth.

The satire here embodied is of a nature too personal to be considered the mere work of a riotous
fancy. It is a trait individualizing and particularising the person at whom the more general
satire is aimed; and, coupled with the infirmities of the victim's moral nature, it fastens
upon poor Florio identity with "the brace of coxcombs." Such satire may be censured as ungenerous;
we cannot help that,--litera scripta manet,--and we cannot rail the seal from the bond. Such
attacks were the general, if not universal, practice of the age in which Shakspeare flourished;
and we have no right to blame him for not being as far in advance of his age, morally, as he
was intellectually. A notorious instance of a personal attack under various characters in one
play is to be found in Ben Jonson's "Bartholomew Fair," wherein he boasts of having, under
the characters of Lanthorn, Leatherhead, the Puppet-showman, and Adam Overdo, satirized the
celebrated Inigo Jones,--

  "By all his titles and whole style at once
  Of tireman, montebank, and Justice Jones."

It was probably to confront and outface "Aristophanes and his comedians," and to "abrogate
the scurrility" of the "sea-dogs" and "land-critics," that our Resolute lexicographer prefixed
to the Enlarged Edition of his Dictionary and to his translation of Montaigne, his portrait
or effigies, engraved by Hole. This portrait would, to a person unapprised of any peculiarity
in the original, present apparently little or nothing to justify the remark of Cornwallis.
But making due allowance for the address, if not the flattery, of a skilful painter, it were
hardly possible for the observer, aware of the blemish, not to detect in the short and close-curled
fell of hair, the wild, staring eyes, the contour of the visage,--which, expanding from the
narrow and wrinkled forehead into cheek-bones of more than Scottish amplitude, suddenly contracts
to a pointed chin, rendered still more acute by a short, peaked beard, --not to detect in this
lozenge-shaped visnomy and its air, at once haggard and grotesque, traits that not only bear
out the remark of his pupil, but the raillery also of the court wits in Shakespeare's dramatic
satire.

Whatever happiness Rose Daniel may have had in the domestic virtues of her lord, his relations
with the world, his temper, eccentricities, and personal appearance could have given her little.
That he was an attached and affectionate husband his last will and testament gives touching
post-mortem evidence.

Let us return to the fortunes of the faithless Rosalinde. It appears she married Menalcas,--the
treacherous friend and rival of the "passionate shepherd." Who, then, was Menalcas? or why
was this name specially selected by our poet to designate the man he disliked?

The pastoral name Menalcas is obviously and pointedly enough adopted from the Eclogues of Virgil;
in which, by comparing the fifteenth line of the second with the sixty-sixth of the third,
we shall find he was the rival who (to use the expression of Spenser) "by treachery did underfong"
the affections of the beautiful Alexis from his enamored master. In this respect the name would
well fit Florio, who, from his intimacy with the Daniels and their friends, could not but have
known the passion of the poet, and the encouragement at one time given him by his fickle mistress.

Again, there was at this time prevalent a French conceit,--"imported," as Camden tells us,
"from Calais, and so well liked by the English, although most ridiculous, that, learned or
unlearned, he was nobody that could not hammer out of his name an invention by this wit-craft,
and picture it accordingly. Whereupon," he adds, "who did not busy his braine to hammer his
devise out of this forge?" [10] This wit-craft was the rebus.

Florio's rebus or device, then, was a Flower. We have specimens of his fondness for this nomenclative
punning subscribed to his portrait: --

  "Floret adhue, et adhue florebit: floreat ultra
    Florius hae specie floridus,--optat amans."

And it was with evident allusion to this conceit that he named his several works his "First
Fruits," "Second Fruits," "Garden of Recreation," and so forth. Spenser did not miss the occasion
of reducing this figurative flower to a worthless weed:--

  "Go tell the las her flower hath wox a weed."

In the preceding stanza we find this weed distinctly identified as Menalcas:--

  "And thou, Menalcas! that by treachery
  Didst underfong my lass to wax so light."

Another reason for dubbing Florio Menalcas may be found in the character and qualities ascribed
to the treacherous shepherd by Virgil. He was not without talent, for in one of the Eclogues
he bears his part in the poetical contention with credit; but he was unfaithful and fraudulent
in his amours, envious, quarrelsome, scurrilous, and a braggart; and his face was remarkable
for its dark, Italian hue,--"quamvis ille fuscus," etc. Compared with the undoubted character
of John Florio, as already exhibited, that of Menalcas so corresponds as to justify its appropriation
to the rival of Spenser.

There is a further peculiarity in the name itself, which renders its application to John Florio
at once pointed and pregnant with the happiest ridicule. Florio rejoiced in the absurd prefix
of Resolute. Now Menalcas is a compound of two Greek words ([Greek: menos] and [Greek: ulkm])
fully expressive of this idea, and frequently used together in the sense of RESOLUTION by the
best classical authorities, --thus, "[Greek: menos d'ulkmd te lathpsmat]." [11] Again, in Liddell
and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon [Greek: menos] in composition is said to "bear always a collateral
notion of resolve and firmness." And here we have the very notion expressed by the very word
we want. Menalcas is the appropriate and expressive nom de guerre of the "Resolute."

Every unprejudiced reader will admit, that in emblem, name, character; and appearance, John
Florio and Menalcas are allegorically identical; and it follows, as a consequence, that Rosalinde,
married to the same person as Rose Daniel, is one and the same with her anagrammatic synonyme,--and
that her sorrows and joys, arising out of the conduct of her husband, must have had the same
conditions.

Having identified Rosalinde with Rose Daniel, it may be thought that nothing further of interest
with respect to either party remains, which could lead us into further detail;--but Spenser
himself having chosen, under another personification, to follow the married life of this lady,
and revenge himself upon the treachery of her husband, we should lose an opportunity both of
interpreting his works and of forming a correct estimate of his character, if we neglected
to pursue with him the fortunes of Mirabella. Like her type and prototype, we find that she
has to suffer those mortifications which a good wife cannot but experience on witnessing the
scorn, disdain, and enmity which follow the perversity of a wayward husband. Such, at least,
we understand to be the meaning of those allegorical passages in which, as a punishment for
her cruelty and pride, she is committed by the legal decree of Cupid to the custody and conduct
of Scorn and Disdain. We meet with her for the first time as:

     "a fair maiden clad in mourning WEED,
  Upon a mangy JADE unmeetly set,
  And a leud fool her leading thorough dry and wet."

Again she is:

                           "riding upon an ass
  Led by a carle and fool which by her side did pass."

These companions treat her with great contempt and cruelty; the Carle abuses her:

  "With all the evil terms and cruel mean
  That he could make; and eke that angry fool,
  Which followed her with cursed hands uncleane
  Whipping her horse, did with his smarting-tool
  Oft whip her dainty self, and much augment her dool."

All this, of course, is to be understood allegorically. The Carle and Fool--the former named
Disdain, the latter Scorn--are doubtless (as in the case of Holofernes and Armado) the double
representatives of the same person. By the ass on which she rides is signified, we suppose,
the ridiculous position to which marriage has reduced her haughty beauty; the taunts and scourges
are, metaphorically, the wounds of injured self-respect.

The Carle himself is extravagantly and most "Resolutely" painted as a monster in nature,--stern,
terrible, fearing no living wight,--his looks dreadful,--his eyes fiery, and rolling from left
to right in search of "foeman worthy of his steel"; he strides with the stateliness of a crane,
and, at every step, rises on tiptoe; his dress and aspect resemble those of the Moors of Malabar,
and remind us forcibly of the swarthy Menalcas. Indeed, if we compare this serio-comic exaggeration
of the Carle with the purely comic picture of Don Armado given by Holofernes, we shall see
at a glance that both depict the same object of ridicule.

That Mirabella is linked in wedlock to this angry Fool is nowhere more clearly depicted than
in the passage where Prince Arthur, having come to her rescue, is preparing to put her tormentor
to death, until his sword is arrested by the shrieks and entreaties of the unhappy lady that
his life may be spared for her sake:--

  "Stay, stay, Sir Knight! for love of God abstain
  From that unwares you weetlesse do intend!
  Slay not that carle, though worthy to be slain;
  For more on him doth than himself depend:
  My life will by his death have lamentable end."

This is the language of a virtuous wife, whom neither the absurdities of a vainglorious husband,
nor "the whips and scorns of the time," to which his conduct necessarily exposes her, can detach
from her duties and affections.

Assuming, then, that the circumstances of this allegory identify Mirabella with Rosalinde,
and Rosalinde with Rose Daniel, and, in like manner, the Fool and Carle with Menalcas and John
Florio, have we not here a thrice-told tale, agreeing so completely in all essential particulars
as to leave no room for doubt of its original application to the early love-adventures in which
the poet was disappointed? And these points settled, though intrinsically of trivial value,
become of the highest interest, as strong corroboration of the personal import of all the allegorical
characters introduced into the works of Spenser. Thus, in the "Shepherd's Calendar," the confidant
of the lover is Hobbinoll, or Gabriel Harvey; and in the "Faëry Queen," the adventurers who
come to Mirabella's relief are Prince Arthur, Sir Timias, and Serena, the well-known allegorical
impersonations of Spenser's special friends, the Earl of Leicester, Sir Walter Raleigh, and
Elizabeth Throckmorton, to whom Sir Walter was married. Are not these considerations, added
to the several circumstances and coincidences already detailed, conclusive of the personal
and domestic nature of the history conveyed in both the poetical vehicles? And do they not
amount to a moral demonstration, that, in assigning the character and adventures of Mirabella
and Rosalinde to the sister of Samuel Daniel, the wife of John Florio, we have given no unfaithful
account of the first fickle mistress of Edmund Spenser?--We shall next ascertain the name and
history of his wife from the internal evidence left behind him in his works.

PART II.--SPENSER'S WIFE.

The second passion of our poet, having had birth

  "In savage soyle, far from Parnasso Mount,"

is more barren of literary gossip and adventure, and may, therefore, we trust, be compressed
into narrow limits.

The chief evidence on which we shall have to rely in this case must be of a similar nature
with the former;--not that we shall have to interpret allegories, but the true reading of an
anagram; for we may set out on our pursuit, assured, that, according to the poetical alchemy
of his age, Spenser did not fail to screen his second innamorata under the same "quintessential
cloud of wit" as his first; and that we shall find in his homage some sobriquet, "the right
ordering of which" (as in the former case) "will bewray the verie name of his love and mistresse."

On this point, however, his biographies and biographers have hitherto preserved absolute silence.
They tell us he was married, and had several children by his wife; but, of the name, the rank,
or the country of the lady they confess their ignorance. Todd informs us, that he "married
a person of very inferior rank to himself,"-- "a country lass";--and he quotes the "Faëry Queen"
to prove his assertion:--

  "For, certes, she was but a country lass."

It is true, those words occur in the passage cited by the commentator from the "Faëry Queen";
most probably they refer to the person in dispute. But she was no more "a country lass," in
the ordinary acceptation of the phrase, than was Spenser himself (Clerk of the Council of Munster)
"a shepherd's boy." Had Mr. Todd consulted that portion of our poet's works especially devoted
to record this passion, its progress and issue, he would have found she was a "lady," whose
rank was rather "disparaged" than otherwise by "sorting" with Edmund Spenser, albeit his blood
was noble:--

  "To all those happy blessings which you have
    With plenteous hand by Heaven upon you thrown,
  This one disparagement they to you gave,
    That you your love lent to so mean a one."
                        Amoretti. Sonnet lxvi.

Spenser devoted two entire poems expressly to this passion,--to wit, the "Amoretti," describing
its vicissitudes, and the "Epithalamion, or Marriage Song," in which he celebrates its consummation.
There are many allusions to it also in the "Faëry Queen" and "Colin Clout's come home again";
and from these sources we propose to supply the name, the lineage, and residence of the happy fair.

She was, undoubtedly, a person of rank and blood, residing in the poet's vicinage, and is so
described in many of the Sonnets. She is constantly addressed as "a lady," enjoying the respect
and the elegancies, if not the luxuries, of her condition,--well-educated, accomplished in
the arts of design and embroidery,--at whose father's house the poet was no infrequent visitor.
Her residence, or that of her family, could not have been far from Kilcolman Castle; and was
seated, most probably, on the banks of the Mulla, (Spenser's favorite stream,) a tributary
of the Blackwater, which empties into the sea at Youghal. For she is seen for the first time
in the "Faëry Queen" as the love of Colin Clout, (Spenser,) dancing among the Nymphs and Graces,--herself
a fourth Grace,--on a mountain-top, the description of which exactly corresponds with all his
other descriptions of his beloved Mole,--a mountain which nearly overhangs his castle; [12]
and, undoubtedly, the bridesmaids and companions who attended her at the hymeneal altar were
the "Nymphs of Mulla," and,

      "of the rivers, of the forest green,
  And of the sea that neighbours to her near,"--

a localization which would fix her family mansion somewhere between Kilcolman Castle and the
prosperous seaport town of Youghal,--but somewhat nearer to the former. This limits our inquiries
within the narrow range of the lands bordering the Mulla waters.

But our poet, we believe, did not stop with these ambiguous indications of her birthplace and
family; he had promised her to immortalize the triumph of his passion, and to leave to all
posterity a monument of the "rare wonderment" of the lady's beauty. [13] He had gone farther;
and, in three several sonnets,[14] vowed to eternize her name--"your glorious name in golden
monument"--after his own fashion, and to the best of his abilities. We have no right, then,
to doubt that he fulfilled his promise; and if we can fix upon any distinctive appellation
or epithet addressed to her, common to the several poems which professedly reveal his passion,
and solvable into the name of a person whose residence and circumstances correspond with those
ascribed to the lady by her worshipper, may we not most reasonably conclude that we have at
length discovered the long-lost secret?

To begin with the beginning,--the "Amoretti." Here she is an Angel, in all moods and tenses,
the "leaves," "lines," and "rhymes" are taught, that, "when they behold that Angel's blessed
look," they shall "seek her to please alone." [15] In a subsequent sonnet, she is an:

     "Angel come to lead frail minds to rest
  In chaste desires, on heavenly beauty bound." [16]

Again, the poet denies that

  "The glorious portrait of that Angel's face"

can be expressed by any art, by pen or pencil. [17]

Again, she is

  "Of the brood of Angels heavenly born." [18]

And yet again, she is

   "Divine and born of heavenly seed." [19]

Once more we are bid

  "Go visit her in her chaste bower of rest,
  Accompanied with Angel-like delights." [20]

Turn we next to the "Epithalamion." And here the same cuckoo-note is repeated usque ad nauseam.
We are told, that, to look upon her,

          "we should ween
  Some Angel she had been." [21]

Even her bridesmaids (her sisters, probably) are thought to be Angels, and, addressing them,
the bridegroom says,

  "Sing, ye sweet Angels, Alleluya sing!" [22]

Finally, in "Colin Clout's come home again," the poet very dexterously evades the royal anger
of Elizabeth, sure to be aroused by the preference of any beauty to her own. To deceive the
Queen,--to whom, in gratitude for past favors, and, mayhap, with a lively appreciation of others
yet to come, he is offering up homage,--he describes her Majesty by the very same imagery he
had elsewhere employed to depict his lady-love; and ostensibly applies to the royal Elizabeth
the amatory terms which are covertly meant for an Elizabeth of his own,--between whom and her
royal type he either saw or affected to see a personal resemblance. Here we find her placed
by the poet:

  "Amongst the seats of Angels heavenly wrought,
  Much like an Angel in all form and fashion."

The metaphoric 'Angel' of enamored swains is at once so trite and obvious, that both the invention
and vocabulary of the lover who abides by it so perpetually must have been poor and narrow
beyond anything we can conceive of Spenser's fecundity of language and imagery, if we sit down
content to imagine that no more is meant by its recurrence than meets the eye. We are satisfied
that this title or simile--call it what you will--is the key-word of the mystery; and we must
now look around the neighborhood of the Mulla for a family-surname out of which this "Angel"
can be extracted by the "alchemy of wit."

On consulting the "Great Records of Munster," Vol. VI., we find a family residing in the neighborhood
of Kilcolman Castle whose name and circumstances correspond exactly with all the requirements
of our Angel-ic theory. The Nagles were a very ancient and respectable family, whose principal
seats were in the northern parts of the County of Cork and the adjoining borders of the County
of Waterford. There seem to have been two races of them, distinguished by the color of their
hair into the Red Nagles and the Black Nagles; and of the former, the lord or chieftain of
the tribe resided at Moneanymmy, an ancient preceptory of the Knights of St. John, beautifully
seated on the banks of the Mulla, where it disembogues its tribute into the Blackwater, on
its passage to Cappoquin and Youghal, and at a convenient distance from Spenser's Kilcolman.
Elizabeth Nagle belonging to the Red branch of the family, we shall find no difficulty in accounting
for her alleged resemblance to Queen Elizabeth.

The proprietor of Moneanymmy, strictly contemporaneous with Spenser, was John Nagle, whose
son, David, died in the city of Dublin in 1637. It is therefore but fair to suppose that in
1593 (the year of Spenser's marriage) this David might have had a sister of marriageable age;
for he himself, by his marriage with Ellen Roche of Ballyhowly, had a daughter, Ellen, who
in due time was married to Sylvanus, the eldest son of Edmund Spenser. If our supposition be
correct, therefore, Ellen and Sylvanus were linked by the double bond of cousinhood and matrimony.

Unfortunately for our Spenserian inquiry, however, the full and regular pedigree of these Nagles
commences only with David, whose marriage and the issue thereof are recorded at large in Irish
books of heraldry; whereas the preceding generations, to a remote antiquity, are merely notified
by the bare names of the son and heir as they succeeded to the inheritance.

John Nagle may have had a daughter marriageable at the time of Spenser's marriage; and she
may have married the poet,--and did, we are convinced,--even though her family belonged to
the Romish persuasion, and the bridegroom to the Protestant Church.

To this untoward circumstance--the difference in religion--there is curious reference made
in a remarkable passage of the "Amoretti," which seems not only to indicate the name of her
family, but to screen the poet himself from the penalties denounced against Protestants who
intermarried with Roman Catholics. In the Sixty-first Sonnet, the lady is said to be:

                         "divinely wrought,
  And of the brood of Angels heavenly born;
  And with the crew of blessed Saints upbrought,
  Each of which did her with their gifts adorn."

Here we have distinctly her birth and education, each assigned to a different source. She is
of the "brood" or family of anagrammatic "Angels,"--otherwise, Nagles; but has been "upbrought,"
or instructed, by persons whom Spenser denominates "Saints," or Orthodox Protestants; for Spenser
was by party and profession a Puritan; and the Puritans were "Saints,"--to such as chose to
accept their own account of the matter.

But there may be a yet deeper meaning, an anagrammatic appropriateness, in this phrase, "crew
of blessed Saints." The Nagles of Moneanymmy had intermarried frequently with the St. Legers
of Doneraile; and thus such a close intimacy was established between the families as to warrant
the supposition that a child of the one house might have been reared amongst the members of
the other. Elizabeth Spenser (born Nagle) may not unlikely have been educated by the Puritan
St. Legers. The name St. Leger, as Camden remarks, is a compound name, derived from the German
Leodigar or Leger, signifying "the Gatherer of the People." Verstigan also gives it the same
translation, as originating from Leod, Lud, or Luyd, which, he says, means "folk or people."
[23] Therefore St. Leger seems to signify a folk, a gathering, a legion or "crew" of saints,
a holy crowd or crew,--which may have been the quibble extorted by Spenser's "alchemy of wit"
from the "upbringing" of Elizabeth Nagle, his wife. He calls her with marked emphasis his "sweet
Saint," his "sovereign Saint"; and in the "Epithalamion" the temple-gates are called on to:

  "Receive this Saint with honors due."

In praying to the gods for a large posterity, he places his request on the ground,

  "That from the earth (which may they long possess
  With lasting happiness!)
  Up to your haughty palaces may mount
  Of blessed Saints for to increase the count."

There is yet another solution, beside the anagrammatic one, for the name of "Angel" so sedulously
applied by the poet to his beloved. The Nagle family, according to heraldry, were divided into
three branches, distinguished by peculiarities of surname. The Southern branch signed themselves
"Nagle,"--the Meath or Midland branch, "Nangle,"--while the Connaught or Western shoot rejoiced
in the more euphonious cognomen of Costello! Let the heralds account for these variations;
we take them as we find them. The letter N, as we are informed, according to the genius of
the Irish tongue, is nothing more than a prefix, set, euphoniæ gratiâ, before the radical name
itself, when commencing with a vowel. Thus, the N'Angles of Ireland were the Angles whose heroic
deeds are duly recorded in the lists of the battle of Hastings. They went over to Ireland with
Strongbow; one branch assumed (can the heralds tell us why?) the name of Costello;--another
became N'Angles, and the Southern shoot dwarfed down their heavenly origin into prosaic Nagle.
The well-known punning exclamation of Pope Gregory, on observing the fairness and beauty of
some English children,--"Non Angli, sed Angeli forent, si essent Christiani,"--may have set
the fervid brain of Spenser on fire, and suggested the divine origin of her he loved. Between
Elizabeth de Angelis--the pun of Gregory--and Elizabeth de Angulo--the latter being the derivation
of heralds and lawyers--what poet could hesitate a moment?

Our task is done. We think we have established our case. By anagram, Elizabeth Nagle makes
a perfect Angel; by heraldry and a pontifical pun, the N'Angles of the County of Meath are
Angels in indefeasible succession; Elizabeth belonged to the Red branch of her family, and
therefore must have resembled the royal Elizabeth; she was brought up among the "crew of Saints"
in the St. Leger family; and, finally, her place of residence corresponds with that depicted
by the "passionate shepherd" as the home of his second mistress. We think we have satisfied
all the requirements of reasonable conviction, and confidently await the verdict of that select
few who may feel interest in this purely literary investigation.

Guided by the rules of anagram here laid down and illustrated, some future commentator, more
deeply versed in the history and scandal of the Elizabethan era, may be able to identify real
personages with all the fantastic characters introduced in the "Faëry Queen."

[Footnote 1: See Colin Clout's come home again.]
[Footnote 2:  Vide Scott's Life.]
[Footnote 3: Upton's Faëry Queen, Vol. I. xiv.]
[Footnote 4: See Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses.]
[Footnote 5: See Hunter's New illustrations of Shakspeare,
  Vol. II. p. 280.]
[Footnote 6: Book II. Canto vi. etc.--See Black's Life
     of Tasso, Vol. II. p. 150.]
[Footnote 7: Upton, Vol. I. p. 14.--Faëry Queen, Book
     VI. Canto vi. st. 10, 17.]
[Footnote 8: Vide that to Queen Anne.]
[Footnote 9: Cornwallis's Essays, p. 99.]
[Footnote 10: Camden's Remains, folio, 1614, p.164.]
[Footnote 11: Iliad, Z. 265.]
[Footnote 12: Faëry Queen, Book VI. Canto x.]
[Footnote 13: Sonnet lxix.]
[Footnote 14: Sonnets lxxiii, lxxv, and lxxxii.]
[Footnote 15: Sonnet i.]
[Footnote 16: Sonnet viii.]
[Footnote 17: Sonnet xvii.]
[Footnote 18: Sonnet lxi.]
[Footnote 19: Sonnet lxxix.]
[Footnote 20: Sonnet lxxxiii.]
[Footnote 21: Stanza 9.]
[Footnote 22: Stanza 13.]
[Footnote 23: Verstigan's Restitution of Decayed Intelligence,
     p. 226.]

MISS WIMPLE'S HOOP.
   [Concluded.]

CHAPTER III.

A year had passed since Maddy's flitting. The skimped delaine was sadly rusty,--Miss Wimple
very poor. The profits of the Hendrik Athenæum and Circulating Library accrued in slow and
slender pittances. A package of envelopes now and then, a few lead pencils, a box of steel
pens, a slate pencil to a school-boy, were all its sales. Almost the last regular customer
had seceded to the "Hendrik Book Bazaar and Periodical Emporium,"--a pert rival, that, with
multifarious new-fangled tricks of attractiveness, flashed its plate-glass eyes and turned
up its gilded nose at Miss Wimple from the other side of the way.

But Miss Wimple's proud and honorable fund for the relief of the shop, by no means fell off.
As she had anticipated, her expert and nimble needle was in steady demand by all the folks
of Hendrik who had fine sewing to give out. Her earnings from this source were considerable;
and, severely stinting herself in the very necessaries of life by a strained ingenuity of economy,
to which the skimped delaine--turned and altered to the utter exhaustion of the cleverest dressmaker's
invention, and magically rejuvenated, as though again and again dipped in the fountain of perpetual
youth--bore conclusive testimony, she bravely reinforced her fund from time to time.

Miss Wimple's repasts were neither frequent nor sumptuous; "all the delicacies of the season"
hardly found their way to her table; and in her bleak little nest, for it was now winter, a
thin and scanty shawl but coldly did the office of a blanket.

But Miss Wimple partook of her tea and dry toast with a cheerful heart, and shivered in her
nest with illustrious patience,--regaled by satisfied honor, and warmed by the smiles of courage
and of hope.

Between Simon and herself negotiations rested where we left them last; only there was now a
heartier welcome for him when he came, and often a sparkling smile, that seemed to say, he
had waited well, and not in vain, she hoped,--a smile that, to the eye of his healthy spirit,
was an earnest of the rose-star's reappearance; it was only behind the rusty skimped delaine,
as behind a cloud. His visits were not so rare as before, nor always "upon business"; he lingered
sometimes, and sometimes had his way.

One night, Simon was outrageously rebellious; he had cheated Sally of half an hour, and spent
it in rank mutiny; he compared the rose-star to the remotest of the asteroids, as seen through
Lord Rosse's telescope, and instituted facetious comparisons between Miss Wimple's honorable
fund and the national debt of England. It was near closing-time; Miss Wimple said, "Now, Simon,
will you go?" --she had said that three times already. Some one entered. O, ho! Miss Wimple
snatched away her hand:--"Now go, or never come again!" Simon glanced at the visitor,--a woman,--a
stranger evidently, and poor,--a beggar, most likely, or one of those Wandering Jews of womankind,
who, homeless, goalless, hopeless, tramp, tramp, tramp, unresting, till they die. She had almost
burst in, quite startling Miss Wimple; but now she stood by the glass case, with averted face,
and shabby shawl drawn suspiciously about her, and waited to be noticed, peering, meanwhile,
through the little window into the dark street.

"Good-night, little Sally!" said Simon; "put up your bars, and so put up my bars. Now there's
a fine speech for you!--if my name were Philip Withers, you'd call it poetry."

The strange woman actually stamped with her foot twice, and moved a step nearer to the window.
Miss Wimple took it for a gesture of impatience, and at once arose to accost her. Simon eyed
her curiously, and somewhat suspiciously, as he passed; but, taking her attire for his clue,
he thought he recognized one of a class with whom Miss Wimple was accustomed to cope successfully;
so he took his leave unconcerned.

Miss Wimple approached the stranger. "What will you have?" she asked. But the woman only followed
Simon with her eyes, not heeding the question.

"Do you hear me?" repeated she; "I say, what will you have, Madam?"

By that time, Simon had disappeared among the distant shadows of the street. The woman turned
suddenly and confronted Miss Wimple.

"Look at me," she said.

Miss Wimple looked, and saw a pale and haggard, almost fierce, face, that had once been fair,--one
that she might, she fancied, have met somewhere before.

"You seem to have suffered,--to suffer now. What can I do for you?"

"Look at me!"

"I see; you are very wretched, and you were not always as you are now. You are cold; are you
hungry also? I, too, am very poor; but I will do all I can. I will warm you and give you food."

The woman walked to where the bright camphene lamp hung, and stood under it.

"Now look at me, Miss Wimple."

"I have looked enough; desperation on a young woman's face is not a pleasant sight to see.
If you have a secret, best keep it. I have to deal only with your weariness, your hunger, and
your half-frozen limbs. If I can do nothing for those, you must go.--Merciful Heaven! Miss
Madeline Splurge!"

"Yes!--Now hide me, quick, or some one will be coming; and warm me, and feed me, or I shall
surely die on your hands."

Not another word said Miss Wimple,--asked no question, uttered no exclamation of surprise;
but straightway ran and closed the windows, put up the bars, adjusted the shutters in the glass
door, and screwed them down. Next she took Madeline's hand and led her up the narrow staircase
to the nest, seated her in the little Yankee rocking-chair, and wrapped her in the scanty,
faded shawl that served for a coverlet. Then she ran quickly down into the cellar, and, with
a hammer, broke in pieces an old packing-box;--it was a brave achievement for her tender hands.
Back to the nest again with the sticks;--Madeline slept in the chair, poor heart!

Miss Wimple made a fire in her little stove, and when some water was hot, she roused her guest
with a kiss. Silently, languidly, and with closed eyes, Madeline yielded herself to the kind
offices of her gentle nurse, who bathed her face and neck, her hands and feet, and dressed
her hair; and when that was done, she placed a pillow under the wanderer's head, and, with
another kiss, dismissed her to sleep again.

Then she prepared tea and toast, and, running down to the street, returned quickly with some
fresh eggs and a morsel of golden butter, wherefrom she prepared a toothsome supper, the fragrance
of which presently aroused the famished sufferer, so that she opened her eyes feebly, and smiled,
and kissed Miss Wimple's hand when she came to draw her nearer to the table. Then Madeline
ate,--not heartily, but enough to comfort her; and very soon her head fell back upon the pillow,
and she would have slept in the chair again, holding Miss Wimple's hand. But Miss Wimple arose
and took the sheets from the cot, and, having warmed them by the fire, made up the bed afresh,--a
most smooth, sweet, and comfortable nest; and, raising Madeline in her arms, supporting her
still sleeping head upon her shoulder, she very tenderly and skilfully removed her garments,
all coarse and torn, soiled and damp, and clad her afresh in pure night-clothes of her own.
But first--for Madeline began to shiver, and her teeth had chattered slightly--Miss Wimple
untied her own warm petticoat of quilted silk, that for comfort and for decency had been her
best friend through the hard winter,--wherefore it was most dearly prized and ingeniously saved,--and
put it upon Madeline, whom then she led, almost carrying her, as one may lead a worn-out and
already slumbering child, to the nest, and laid her gently there, drawing the covering snugly
about her, and spreading the faithful shawl over all. And all the while, not a word had been
spoken by either;--with one, it was the silence of pious carefulness, --with the other, of
newly-found safety and perfect rest. Then Miss Wimple placed the lamp on the floor behind the
door, fed the stove with fresh sticks, and with her feet on the little iron hearth, and her
head resting on her knees, thought there all night.

All night poor Madeline's slumber was broken by incoherent mutterings, convulsive starts, and,
more than once, a fearful cry; and when the day dawned, she suddenly sat erect, stared wildly
about her, and raved. A fierce, though brief, fever had seized her; she was delirious, and
knew not where she was. When Miss Wimple would have soothed her, tenderly caressing, and promising
her a sister's kindness and protection,--a home safely guarded from intrusion,-- Madeline assailed
her savagely, bidding her be off, with her smooth treachery, her pretty lies.

"'Sister!'--devil! Do I not know what a hell your 'home' is?--and as for 'safety,' shall I
seek that among snakes? Oh, I am sick of all of you!--have I not told you so a hundred times?--sick
with the contempt I feel for you, and weary of your stupid tricks."

"Madeline," said Miss Wimple, "look at me! Here,--touch my face, my dress! Do you not know
me now? Do you not see that I am not your mother, nor Josephine, nor Adelaide, but only Sally
Wimple, little Miss Wimple, of the bookstore? What harm could I do you?--how could I offend
or hurt you? Look me in the eyes, I say, and know me, and be calm. See! this is my chamber,--this
is my bed; below is the little shop,--the Athenæum, you remember. We are alone in the house;
there is no one to hear or see. You came to me,--did you not?--over the long, weary road, through
the darkness and the bitter cold, for warmth and food, for rest and safety; and I have hidden
you away, and watched by you. Look around you,--look through that window; do you not know those
trees, the mulberries by the Athenæum?--they are bare now; but you have seen them so before,
a dozen winters. Look at this face,--look at this dress,--look at this dress!--Ah! now you
know all about it,--'little Miss Wimple,' of course; and this shall be your home, and you are
safe here."

When Miss Wimple began to speak, she stood somewhat off from the bed; for Madeline, with a
gesture full of hate, and close-set lips that looked dangerous, had thrust her back. But as
she proceeded with her calm and clear appeal, Madeline was arrested, in the very movement of
springing from the bed, in an attitude "worth a painter's eye," half-sitting, half-reclining,
supported by her right arm, which, rigidly extended, was planted pillar-like in the bed,--with
her left hand tossing aside the bed-clothes,--her knees drawn up, as for the instant of stepping
out upon the floor,--her right shoulder, bare, round, and white, thrust from the night-dress,
which in the restlessness of her distraction had burst its chaste fastenings, bestowing a chance
glimpse of a most proud and beauteous bosom,--a glimpse but dimly caught through the thick
brown meshes of her dishevelled hair. So, now, with impatient eyes and eager lips, she rested
and listened. And when Miss Wimple said,--"I have hidden you away and watched by you," the
fierce look was softened to one of pitiful reflection and recollection; and at the words, "Look
at this dress! Ah! now you know all about it,--'little Miss Wimple,' of course!" she sat up
and stretched forth her arms beseechingly, and in a moment was sobbing helplessly on Sally's neck.

A little while Miss Wimple, still and thoughtful, held her so, that her soul's bitterness might
pour itself out in wholesome tears; then she gently stroked the tangled brown hair, and said,--"Sit
close beside me now, and lean upon my bosom, and tell me all,--where you have been, and how
you have fared, and what you would have me do."

With a brave effort, Madeline controlled herself, and replied, firmly, though with averted face,

"You remember, dear Miss Wimple, our last interview. I insulted you then."

Miss Wimple made no sign. Madeline blushed,--brow, neck, and bosom, --crimson.

"And then I told you that I believed in you as I believed in little else, in this world or
the next; and I said, that, if in my hour of shame and outcasting, I could implore the help
of any human being, I would come to you before all others. I have come. You thought me raving
then, and pitied me, because you did not understand. Presently you will understand, and you
will still pity me,--but with a difference.

"I fled away that very night, you recollect,--fled from my self-contempt, from the sickening
scorn I felt for them,--for him."

There was agony in the effort with which she uttered that last word. She named no names, but,
with a sort of desperation, raised her head and looked Miss Wimple in the face; in the quick,
sensitive glances they interchanged at that moment the omission was supplied.

"Though my flight was premeditated, I took with me no clothes save those I wore; but I had
concealed on my person every jewel and trinket I possessed. With these,--for I readily converted
them into money,--I purchased a safe asylum in an obscure but decent family, whose poverty
did not afford them the indulgence of a scrupulous fastidiousness or impertinent curiosity;
it was enough for their straitened conscience that I had the manners and the purse of a lady,
--they asked no questions which might cost them a profitable boarder, the only one they could
accommodate in their poor way. I had no fear that any hue-and-cry would be raised for me; I
had left behind me two who would prevent that,--in that, my worst foes were my best friends.
If I had any relatives who cared for me enough to pursue me, I rejoiced in at least one sister
on whose cunning, if not good sense, I could rely, to convince them of the futility of such
efforts,--one friend whose fears would be ingenious and busy to put the best-laid chase at fault.

"So I lay concealed and safe till the time came when I had to purchase pity, help, and precious
secrecy. My discreet hosts could furnish those extras; but they were poor, and such luxuries
are expensive in New York;--it was not long before my last dollar was gone. I had been ill,--ill,
Miss Wimple,--and every way crippled; I could not, if the work had offered itself to me, have
earned more then. My last trinket was gone; I had pawned whatever I could spare from the hard
exigencies of living; for I am no coward,--I did not wish to die,--I had challenged my fate,
and would meet it. I had even changed with the women of the house the silk dress I wore, and
my fine linen, for the mean rags you cleansed me of last night, --that they might pay themselves
so; and when all was expended, and the last trick tried that pride, honor, and modesty could
wink at, I came away in the night, leaving no unsettled scores behind me. But I saw my own
resources sinking fast; I knew I must presently be debtor to some one for protection, aid,
and counsel. I remembered you,--and that I had said I could beg of none but you; therefore
I am here.

"And now, Miss Wimple,"--and as she spoke, Madeline arose, and, standing before her companion,
said her say slowly, proudly, with head erect and unflinching eyes,--"I told you I believed
in you, as I believed in nothing then, on earth or in heaven,--as I believe only in God's mercy
now. I will prove that that was no merely pretty phrase, meant cunningly to cheat you of your
forgiveness for a coarse insult. Since I saw you last, I have been--a mother; I have brought
forth a child in shame and sin and blasphemous defiance, --and God has been merciful to it
and to me, and has taken it unto Himself. I think you also will be merciful; you will help
me to save myself from the pit that yawns just now at my feet; you will help me to prove it
false, that a woman who has strayed off so far in her wilful way may not, if she be strong
and truly proud, retrace her steps, to fall in at last--though last of all the stragglers--with
the happy procession of honored women,--of women who have done the best they could, and borne
their burden bravely."

Miss Wimple sat on the side of the bed, her chin resting on her clasped hands, her gaze fixed
vacantly on the floor,--"Poor baby! Dead,--thank God!" was all she said.

"Miss Wimple," said Madeline, "I have addressed myself to your heart, rather than to your understanding,
your education. I had no right to do so. If my presence is, in your opinion, an outrage to
your house, I am ready to go now. I can face the street, the town; no one will dare to stop
me, if any were inclined."

"Be seated, Miss Splurge,--you are very welcome here. My appreciation of the difference between
your education and mine is as kind as you could wish. This is a question of hearts,--and our
hearts have been always right, I hope; we are as woman to woman, and the womanly part of either
of us may still be trusted. Be seated,--I have a word to say for myself"; and, as she spoke,
Miss Wimple went to her little bureau, and, unlocking a drawer, drew from it a miniature rosewood
cabinet; unlocking that, again, she took something out, which, as she returned to resume her
seat beside Madeline, was hidden in her hand.

"Miss Splurge," said Miss Wimple, "the night on which you disappeared so strangely from this
place, I had been visiting a sick friend on the other side of the river, and returned home
at a late hour,--that is, about nine o'clock, perhaps. As I entered the covered bridge, I heard
the voices of a lady and a gentleman in excited conversation."

Madeline became deadly pale; but she did not speak, uttered no exclamation,--only a slight
movement of her eyebrows expressed eagerness, as she turned more attentively to Miss Wimple,
who proceeded as though unconscious of any trace of emotion in her companion.

"The voice of the gentleman was familiar to me; the lady's I did not, at first, recognize,--something
had changed its quality. Supposing themselves alone,--for it was plain they had not heard me
approach and enter the bridge,--they were incautious; their words reached me distinctly. I
might have retraced my steps and waited till they had gone; but the moon was shining brightly,
and the night was very still, --in a pause of their conversation they might have heard or seen
me; I chose to spare them that. So I fell back into a corner, where the shadows were deepest,
and remained quite quiet until they went away. I have told you that I heard their words; but
I did not understand them then;--now, I do."

Madeline bowed her head. Miss Wimple seemed not to observe that, but continued in the same
quiet, even tone:--

"When they had gone, I found, lying in the moonlight near the bridge--this."

Miss Wimple held out the little pocket-book. Madeline started, made a quick movement, as though
to snatch the book, but checked herself with an effort, and said, with stern composure,--

"Well?"

"Well," said Miss Wimple, "there it is, and it is yours. It contains a card, for the safety
of which you were once concerned. It has remained as safe, from that hour to this,--not only
from my curiosity, but that of all others, be they friends or foes of yours,--as though you
had kept it hidden in your bosom, and defended it with your teeth and nails; on my honor!"

In these last words, and only then, Miss Wimple showed that she could remember an insult, and
avenge it--in her own way. She dropped the pocket-book into the lap of Madeline, who, without
a word, placed it in her bosom.

"And now, my poor Madeline," said Miss Wimple, "we will speak no more of these things. I beg
you to understand me clearly,"--and Miss Wimple suddenly altered her tone,--"we must not recur
to this subject. You will remain with me until we shall have decided what is best for us to
do. You are quite safe in this house; that you were ever here need not be known hereafter,
unless your honor or your happiness should require that we divulge it. I must go now and open
the shop; and when I return to you, we will speak, if you please, of other things."

"But Miss Wimple's Hoop,--will you never come to that? Or is it your intention to 'omit the
part of Hamlet by particular request?'"

Slowly and fairly,--we come to it now.

CHAPTER IV.

When the neat and modest little mistress of the Hendrik Athenæum and Circulating Library descended
to open the shop and take down the bars, all her sense of delicacy was shocked, and she was
brought to shame; for her meek skirts, missing the generous support of the quilted silk petticoat,
clung about her mortified extremities in thin and limp dejection. It was plain to Miss Wimple
that she looked poverty-stricken,--an aspect most dreadful to the poor, and upon which the
brothers and sisters of penury who by hook or by crook contrive to keep up appearances for
the nonce have no mercy. "Today," she thought, "callers will delight me not, nor customers
neither." But Miss Wimple was in a peculiarly provoking predicament, and for such there is
ever a malignant star;--callers and customers dropped in, one after another, all day, as they
had rarely come before,--as though, indeed, her most spiteful enemy had got wind of the petticoat
affair, and sent them to plague her.

That day, Miss Wimple had recourse to as much painfully ingenious dodging behind the low counters
as though she had a cloven foot to hide. When evening came, she could have sat down--if she
had been any other plagued woman in the world but Sally Wimple--and had a good cry. It was
bitter weather, and she had shivered much;--she did not mind that; but to look poverty-stricken!
No, she did not cry outside, but it was a narrow escape. In her trouble, her eyes wandered
around the shop beseechingly; and lo! she beheld in the window a timely hooped skirt,--a daring
speculation wherein she had lately invested, in consideration of the growing importance of
her millinery department; and straightway Miss Wimple went and took the hoop, and offered it
up for a pride-offering in the stead of her delicacy, that was so dear to her. It was a thing
of touching artlessness to do; only so cunning-simple a soul as Sally Wimple could ever have
thought of it. She sat up late that night, engaged in compromising with her prejudices, by
drawing out the whalebones, one by one, from the "Alboni," shaving them down with a piece of
glass, very thin, and tucking them,--until all their loud defiance was subdued, and for Miss
Wimple's Hoop it might be tenderly deprecated that it was nothing to speak of, "such a leetle one."

The sacrifice was made, and, let us hope, not merely figuratively accepted by Him to whom prejudices
may arise today an offering not less honored than was the blood of rams in the hour when Abraham
laid his first-born on an altar in the thicket of Jehovah-jireh.

If any challenge the probabilities of this incident, and cavil at the chance that Miss Wimple's
necessity could, under any circumstances, bring forth such an invention, I hope I have only
to remind them that that brave angel had become straitened to a point whereat she had neither
material from which to erect another quilted petticoat, nor the means of procuring it, even
if she could spare the time necessary to the making of one,--which she could not, being now
closely occupied between the engagements of her hired needle and the newly-found cares that
Charity had imposed upon her.

But, however the probabilities may appear, Miss Wimple's Hoop was a shaved-whalebone fact;
and the quilted petticoat would never have been missed, but for the officious scrutiny of the
eyes, and the provoking prating of the tongues, of a sophisticated few who marvelled greatly
at the pliancy and the "perfect set" of Miss Wimple's Alboni,--"and that demure little prig,
too! who'd have thought it?"

As for Simon Blount, he was quick to perceive the new experience to which the skimped delaine
had been introduced, and at first it disturbed and embarrassed him; but his light, elastic
temper soon recovered its careless buoyancy, with a sly smile at what he considered an oddity,
newly discovered, in the character of his prim sweetheart. "Oh! it's all right, of course,"
he thought; "Sally knows what she's about; but it's very funny!"

And so, if this strange disturbing of the established order of "things" in the kingdom of Wimple
had rested with the exaltation of the Hoop, that body politic would presently have been reduced
to tranquillity, no doubt, and the all-agogness of Hendrik would have come quietly to nought,
like any other popular flutter following upon a new thing under the sun. But in a romantic
cause the conscientiousness of Miss Wimple, for all her seeming matter-of-fact, took on a quality
of chivalry; and she displayed a Quixotism most tiltfully disposed toward any windmill of conventional
proprieties that might plant itself in the way by which her beauteous and distressed damsel
was to escape. So, before all the decencies of Hendrik had recovered from the shock of the
Hoop, she threw them into a new and worse "conniption" by an even more daring innovation upon
their good, easy notions of her; for the next thing she did was--a basque and flounces. Thus
it happened:--

Madeline had become quite another Madeline,--say a Magdalen, rather, --under the gentle discipline
of her admirable angel. Her wonted distraction had subsided into a pensive sadness, which manifested
itself in many a grateful, graceful tenderness toward that glorifier of the skimped delaine.
She had observed the Hoop at once, and greeted it with a solitary smile, accepting it for a
happy sign and a token; for she had recognized Simon Blount when she turned into the shop,
that night, out of the darkness and the cold, and, with the alert intelligence of a woman,
even so self-absorbed as she was then, had construed his gallant "good-night." She thought
she understood Miss Wimple's Hoop, because she had not discovered the poetry in Miss Wimple's
quilted petticoat. They had not spoken of those things again. Delicacy was the law for those
two; and to do their best, and thankfully, bravely, accept the first deliverance Heaven might
send them, was their religion. Like two Micawbers of Faith, Hope, and Charity, they waited
for something to "turn up."

Miss Wimple invested a daily three-cent piece in a New York paper, and diligently conned the
"Wants" before the Marriages and Deaths, --extraordinary woman! An "opening" had but to show
itself, and Miss Wimple was ready to fling her character into the breach for the benefit of
her Magdalen. Strong-minded woman!

At last it came. A gentleman who had recently lost his wife wanted a house-keeper and governess
for his two little girls,--the offices to be united in the person of "a lady by birth, education,
and associations"; to such a liberal salary would be given; and in case she should be in straitened
circumstances, a reasonable advance would be made, "to enable the lady to assume at once the
position of a respected member of his family." The very place!

Now what did that dashing Miss Wimple-Quixote--of such is the Kingdom of Heaven!--but sit down
and pour her enormous little heart out in a letter to a person she had never seen or heard
of,--telling him everything but names and localities, and appealing, with an inspiration, to
his divine spark. There is no doubt that, "for that occasion only," Providence sent an advertiser
to the "Tribune" to justify the large faith of Pity in skimped delaine; for the word of Hope
and Love that Miss Wimple let fall, unstudied, from the heart, fell upon a genial mind, and lo!--

  "It raised a sister from the dust,
     It saved a soul from death!"

The gentleman--the nobleman!--thanked his unknown correspondent, whose hand he would esteem
it an honor to touch, for the opportunity she had afforded him to do good in a graceful way.
Mrs. Morris (Miss Wimple had written: "Let us know this poor lady as 'Mrs. Morris,' a childless
widow") should be most welcome to his house; she need never be aware that the sad passages
of her history had come to his knowledge, and by all over whom he exercised authority or influence
her sorrows should be reverenced. He took the liberty to inclose a check, which Mrs. Morris
would have the goodness to regard as a small advance on her salary; she would make whatever
preparation she might deem necessary, at her perfect leisure; he would be happy to see her
as soon as it should be quite agreeable to her to come. Once more, with all his heart, he thanked
the admirable lady who had in so remarkable a manner distinguished him by her noble impulse
of confidence. It would be his dearest duty hereafter to deserve it. And he gave his address:
"Lawrence Osgood, Fourteenth St., New York."

It was evident that the "necessary preparations" for Madeline's appearance in this new rôle
could not be made in Hendrik. Miss Wimple was distressingly sensitive for the safety of her
protégée from scandalous discovery. Even she herself could not expend any considerable portion
of Mr. Osgood's advance without arousing surmise and provoking dangerous prying. Besides, how
should she get the money for the check?--to whom dare she confess herself in possession of
it? Of course, there was a conclusive impossibility. Nevertheless, something must be done at
once to put Madeline at least in travelling trim; for the things of which--to use her own sensitive
expression--Miss Wimple had "cleansed" her when she came were out of the question. It was as
true of this poor young lady in her trunkless plight, as of any dishevelled Marius in crinoline,
who sits down and weeps among the brand-new ruins of a Carthage of satin, lawns, and laces,
that she had Nothing to Wear. So Miss Wimple, encouraged by the happy success of the Hoop stratagem,
forthwith began to cast about her; and for the present Mr. Osgood's letter and the check were
hushed up in her bosom.

Now Miss Wimple and Madeline Splurge were examples of how much our views of a person's character
have to do with our notions of his or her stature or carriage. All Hendrik spoke of the demure
heroine of the skimped delaine as "Little Miss Wimple"; and Madeline, though the youngest of
the sisters, was universally known as "Miss Splurge," --as it were, awfully. Yet Miss Wimple
and Madeline were almost exactly "of a size," by any measurement, and Miss Wimple's clothes
were a sweet fit for Madeline; the petticoat experiment had discovered that. So the skimped
delaine, Miss Wimple thought, must be promoted to the proud person of the handsome Madeline,
and something must be found to take its place.

Now, among store of respectable family-rubbish, scrupulously saved by half a graveyard-full
of female relations,--for the women-folk of the Wimples had been ever noted for their thrift,--a
certain quaint garment had come down to Sally from her great-grandmother. It was a black "silken
wonder," wherewith, no doubt, that traditionally dear, delightful creature was wont to astonish
the streets, in the days of her vanity and frivolous vexation of spirit.

A generous expanse of cape pertained to it, and it was cut much shorter behind than before,
in order to display to advantage the pert red heels whereon that antique Wimple aforetime exalted
herself. "With some trifling alterations," said Miss Wimple to herself, "this will do nicely
for me; and my delaine--which is not so very bad, after all--a little cleaning will do wonders
for it--will look sweetly appropriate on the Widow Morris, while her outfit is making in New York."

So Miss Wimple let down the dress behind, by piecing it in the back just below the waist; and
from the generous cape she made a basque to hide the alteration; and some stains, like iron-mould,
on the skirt, she covered with three flounces, made of some fine crape that was left from her
mother's funeral.

"But, by your leave, where was this 'silken wonder' when your unhandy heroine was casting about
her for a substitute for the quilted petticoat?"

Anywhere but in her mind. Of the round-aboutness of her directness you have had examples enough
already; nothing could be more romantic than her simplest realities, and that which would seem
most out-of-the-way to another woman was often "handiest" to her. So, when you ask me, Why
did not Sally Wimple sooner think of her great-grandmother's dress? my easiest answer is, Because
she was Sally Wimple.

When Miss Wimple first put on the new dress, in Madeline's presence, Madeline smiled again,
for she thought she understood; and Miss Wimple smiled also, for she knew no one could understand.

Then Miss Wimple broke the news to Madeline, by telling her that "an old friend of her father's,"
a wealthy Mr. Osgood, of New York, was in want of a governess for his two daughters, and had
written to her on the subject;--(a not very improbable story; for Madeline could not but be
aware that in the conscientious and proud little bookseller was the making of a very respectable
"Jane Eyre," under favorable circumstances;)--whereupon she had taken the liberty to recommend
a clever and accomplished friend of her own, one Mrs. Morris, a widow,--"of course, that's
you, Madeline,"--and Mr. Osgood had accordingly done her the honor to offer the place to Mrs.
Morris, and, "with characteristic consideration and delicacy," had inclosed a check, by way
of an advance on her salary, which would be liberal, to defray the expense of an outfit,--"and
there it was." His writing to her, Miss Wimple said, was a circumstance as strange as it was
fortunate; for, in fact, she had, personally, but a very slight acquaintance with him, and
was "quite sure she should not recognize him, if she were to see him now";--as for his little
girls, she had never seen them, nor even heard their names. But Mr. Osgood's character was
of the very highest, and she rejoiced that Madeline would have so honorable, influential, and
generous a protector, who had given his word that she should be received and entertained with
the consideration due to a superior and esteemed friend.

[Never mind Miss Wimple's white lies, my dear; there is no danger that they will be found filling
the blank place in the Recording Angel's book, left where his tear blotted out My Uncle Toby's
oath. And in a purely worldly point of view, too, those touching offerings to Mercy were safe
enough; for when Miss Wimple promised Madeline that she would find Mr. Osgood "a singularly
discreet person, who would be sure not to annoy her with impertinent curiosity," it was not
said by way of a hint;--she well knew, that, from the moment the proud and jealous Madeline
departed across the threshold of the Hendrik Athenæum and Circulating Library, she would set
a close and solemn seal upon her heart and upon her lips, and the "old familiar faces" and
places would be to her as the things that Memory is a silent widow for. Nevertheless, in writing
to Mr. Osgood, to acknowledge the receipt of the check, and to thank him, that cunning Miss
Wimple took the precaution to put him in possession of as much of her personality as would
serve his purpose in case of accident, and provide for the chance of a shock to his suspicious
and vigilant governess.]

Madeline received Miss Wimple's extraordinary good news with the silence of one bewildered.
Nor even when she had come fully to appreciate all the beauty and the joy of it, did she give
audible expression to her gratitude; she was too proud--or rather say, too religious--to subject
the divine emotion to the vulgar ordeal of words; she only kissed Miss Wimple's hands, and
mutely laid them on her bosom.

Then Miss Wimple arrayed her protégée in the skimped delaine, for which the "trifling alterations"
and the "little cleaning" had done wonders,--and Madeline was, as it were, "clothed on with
chastity." And Miss Wimple was jubilant over the charming effect, and "went on" in a manner
surprising to behold. First she kissed Madeline, and then she kissed the dress; and she told
Madeline, in a small torrent of triumph, what a tremendous fellow of a skimped delaine it was,--how
cheap, and how dear it was,--what remarkable powers of endurance it had displayed, and with
what force and versatility of character it had adapted itself to every new alteration or trimming,--and
how she was so used to its ways, and it to hers, that she was almost ready to believe it could
"get on her by itself,"--and how she felt sure it was expressly manufactured to do good in
the world,--until she had so glorified the lowly skimped delaine, that Madeline began to feel
in it like a queen, whose benignant star has forever exalted her above the vulgar sensation
of having Nothing to Wear.

Now Madeline was quite ready to depart on her pilgrimage of penitence. But almost at the parting
hour a circumstance occurred which grievously alarmed Miss Wimple, and so roused the devil
whereof Madeline had been but just now possessed, that it stirred within her.

CHAPTER V.

The "nest" looked out upon the street by two front windows, that were immediately over the
sign of the Hendrik Athenæum and Circulating Library. There was also a small side-window, affording
a view of a bit of yard, quite private, and pleasant in its season, with an oval patch of grass,
some hollyhocks, a grape-vine trained over a pretty structure of lattice to form a sort of
summer-house, and a martin-box, in a decidedly original church-pattern, mounted on a tall,
white pole. Of course the scene was cheerless and unsightly now; lumpy brown patches of earth
showed through the unequally melting snow, where the grass-plot should have been; a few naked
and ugly sticks were all the promise of the hollyhocks' yellow glory; the bare grape-vine showed
on the dingy lattice like a tangled mesh of weather-stained ropes; and "there were no birds
in last year's nest" to make the martin-box look social.

This little window was Madeline's chosen seat; and hither she brought, sometimes a book, but
more frequently a portion of Miss Wimple's work from the millinery department, and wholesomely
employed her mind, skilfully her fingers. Here she could look out upon the earth and sky, and
enjoy, unspied, the sympathy of their desolation,--never daring to think of all the maddening
memories that lay under the front windows: those she had never once approached, never even
turned her eyes towards; Miss Wimple had observed that.

But on the day of the installation of the basque and the flounces, and the promotion of the
skimped delaine, late in the afternoon, the twilight (falling, as Madeline sat at the side-window,
gazing vacantly down upon the forlornness of the little yard, and Miss Wimple stood at the
front window, gazing as abstractedly down upon the hard, pitiless coldness of the street),--the
thoughts of both intent on the must of their parting on the morrow, and the how of Madeline's
going,--suddenly Madeline left her safe seat, and came and leaned upon Miss Wimple's shoulder,
looking over it into the street. Only a minute, half a minute, but--surely the Enemy tempted
her!--too long; for ere Miss Wimple, quick as she was to take the alarm, could turn and lead
her away, Madeline's vigilant, fierce glance had caught sight of him, (alack! Philip Withers!)
and, ashen-pale, with parted lips and suspended breath, and wide, blazing eyes, she stood,
rooted there, and stared at him. But Miss Wimple dragged her away just in time,--no, he had
not seen her,--and for a brief space the two women stood together, near the bed, in the corner
farthest from the window; and Miss Wimple held Madeline's face close down upon her own shoulder,
and pressed her hand commandingly, and whispered, "Hush!"

So they stood in silence,--no cry, no word, escaped. And when, presently, Madeline, with a
long heart-heaved sigh, raised her head and looked Miss Wimple in the face, there was blood
on her lips. And blood was on Miss Wimple's dress. Yea! the basqued and flounced disguise was
raggedly rent at the shoulder.

Then Madeline went and lay down upon the bed, and turned her face to the wall,--and there was
no noise. And Miss Wimple covered the blood and the rents on her shoulder with her mother's
lace cape,--the familiar companion of the skimped delaine,--and went down into the shop.

When Miss Wimple, having put up the bars, ascended to the nest to join Madeline in the little
cot,--Madeline slept quietly enough; but a trace of blood, with all its sad story, was on her
lips, and a lingering frown of pain on her brow. Very carefully, not to disturb her, Miss Wimple
lay down by her side, but not to sleep;--her thoughts were anxiously busy with the morrow.

In the morning, when Miss Wimple awoke, her eyes met the eyes of Madeline, no longer fierce
and wild, but full of patience and tender gratitude. The brave Magdalen, leaning on her elbow
in the bed, had been watching Miss Wimple as she slept, her poor heart fairly oppressed with
its thankfulness to God, and to his saving minister. When, Miss Wimple opened her eyes, Madeline
bent over her and kissed her on the forehead, and Miss Wimple smiled. Then both arose and put
on their garments,--Madeline the skimped delaine, and Miss Wimple the flounces. Oh! the grotesque
pathos of that exchange!--and Madeline did not remark with what haste, and a certain awkward
bashfulness, Miss Wimple retired to a far corner and covered her shoulders with the lace cape.

All that day the two women were very still;--the approaching hour of parting was not adverted
to between them, but the low tone in which they spake of other and lesser things showed that
it was first of all in their thoughts and on their hearts. To the latest moment they merely
understood each other. The cars went from the branch station at ten o'clock. It was nine when
Miss Wimple released from its old-fashioned bandbox--as naturally as if it had been all along
agreed upon between them, and not, as was truly the case, utterly forgotten until then--her
well-saved and but little used bonnet of black straw, and put it on Madeline's head, kissing
her, as a mother does her child, as she tied the bow under her chin; and she took from the
bed the faithful shawl, and drew it snugly, tenderly, around Madeline's shoulders,--Madeline
only blushing; to resist, to remonstrate, she well knew, had been in vain. There had been some
exchanging of characters, you perceive, no less than of costumes.

"And now where shall we put those?" asked Miss Wimple, holding in her hand Mr. Osgood's check,
and a trifle of ready money for the immediate needs of the journey.

Madeline replied by silently drawing from her bosom the little pocket-book, and handing it
to her friend, who opened it in a matter-of-course way that was full of delicacy; and--no doubt
accidentally, and innocently, as to any trick of pretty sentiment-- deposited the check and
the bank-note beside that card.

And now it was time to part. Miss Wimple took up the dim chamber-lamp, and led Madeline down
the stairs,--both silent, calm: those were not crying women. As they entered the shop, Miss
Wimple immediately set down the lamp on the nearest end of the counter, and went with Madeline
straight to the door, whither its slender ray hardly reached, and where the blood-spots and
the rents on her shoulder might not be noticed,--or, at least, not clearly defined. Then, with
a business-like "Ah! I had forgotten,"--admirably feigned,--she hastily removed the shawl from
Madeline's shoulders, and the lace cape from her own; and she put the lace cape on Madeline,
and covered it with the shawl. This time Madeline shrank, and would have forbidden the charitable
surprise; but Miss Wimple moved as though to open the door, and said,--

"Madeline, in mind, and heart, and soul, do you feel ready?"

"Yes!"

"Then go!--Believe in God and yourself, and do the best you can."

And Madeline said,--

"And you, also, must believe in me, and pray for me; be patient with me, and wait. If the time
should ever come when I can comfort you, with God's help I will hasten to you, wherever you
may be."

And they kissed each other, and both said, "God bless you!"

So Madeline departed quickly, and presently was lost in the shadows beyond the shop-lamps.

[Next morning, when Sally Wimple went to take down the bars, her neighbors were astonished;
for it was already reported and believed that she had been seen going from the Athenæum to
the ten o'clock train the night before.]

Then Miss Wimple closed the door and went back to her room, where she sat down on the bed and
had a good cry, which was a great comfort. When, after that, she arose, and, standing before
the glass to undress herself, perceived the blood-stains and the rents, she straightway went
and brought her work-basket, and, seating herself under the dim lamp, without fear or hesitation
cut down the dress, low-neck--There!--Then she lay down in the bed and slept sweetly, with
a smile on her face.

Ah! cunning, artless Sally Wimple! No wonder the dashing directness of your character had ever
by your neighbors been mistaken for simplicity. The thing which was easiest for you to do was
ever the hardest thing for you to bear. In the morning, this new Godiva of Hendrik--not less
to be honored than she of Coventry, in all she underwent and overcame--descended to her shop,
"clothed on with chastity"; and then her dreadful trial began. I claim for her even more merit
than the pure heart of the world has accorded to her namesake who:

                 "took the tax away,
  And built herself an everlasting name,"

by as much as her task was harder, herself more helpless, and her reward less. Like her of
Coventry,

    "left alone, the passions of her mind,
  As winds from all the compass shift and blow,
  Made war upon each other for an hour,
  Till Pity won."

She said to the World,--"If this woman pay your tax, she dies."

And the World mocked,--"You would not let your little finger ache for such as this!"

"But I would die," said she,--"and more,--I will bear your mocking and your hisses!"

"Oh! ay, ay, ay! you talk!" said the World.

But we have seen already. She had no herald to send forth and "bid him cry, with sound of trumpet,
all the hard condition." No palfrey awaited her, "wrapt in purple, blazoned with armorial gold."
For her, indeed,

  "The little wide-mouthed heads upon the spout,
  Had cunning eyes to see..."

       "...the blind walls
  Were full of chinks and holes; and, overhead,
  Fantastic gables stared."

She had her low churls, her Peeping Toms,--"compact of thankless earth," who bored moral auger-holes
in fear, and spied. Her nudeness was more complete than hers of Coventry, by as much as ridicule
is more ruthless than coarse curiosity.

Not merely the delicacy of her "inmost bower," but all the protection of her forlornness, she
exposed naked to the town, to take that tax away; and when it was removed, she could not hope
to build herself "an everlasting name." Ah, no! Godiva of Hendrik may not live in any "city's
ancient legend." This poor story must be all her monument; let us lay the cap-stone, then.

       *       *       *       *       *

All the angers of scorn in Hendrik were pointed at Miss Wimple; all the sharp tongues of Hendrik
hissed at her; and her good name fell at once into the portion of the vilest weeds. Simon Blount
saw and heard, and his soul was sorely troubled. Like all true love, loyal and vigilant, his
love for Sally was clear-sighted and sagacious. Infatuation is either gross passion or pretence,--the
flash and bogus jewelry of the heart; but true love, though its eyes may ache with the seeing,
sees ever sharply. All beautiful examples teach that the blindness of Love is not a parable,
but an imposture; and Simon saw that Sally was in a false position,--false to herself and to
him; for she denied him that confidence which he had a right to share, sharing, as he did,
all the scandal and the scorn; and in that, she was unconsciously unjust. She denied herself
the aid and comfort of his tender counsel and his approbation, the protection of his understanding
and believing, when for him to understand and believe was for her to be safe and bold. For
even the pride of Sally Wimple, overdone, could become arrogance; even her disinterestedness,
intemperately indulged in, could take on the form of selfishness.

Simon went to Sally, and said: "Tell me what all this means." But Sally, weak now in her very
strength, said: "Nothing! Let my ways be my own ways still; I alone am answerable for them.
Is 'believing and waiting' so hard to do? I did not send for you."

Then Simon conceived a tremendous coup de coeur, a daring one enough, as women go,--women of
such stuff as the Sally Wimples of this world are made of. He said, "I will try the old trick,
the foolish old trick that I always despised, but which must have something sound in it, after
all, since it has served the turn, through all time, of people in my predicament." So Simon
went over (not with his heart,--trust him!--but with his legs) to Adelaide Splurge. Miss Wimple,
never guessing, saw him go, and made no sign, though her heart fairly cracked: "He will return
one day," she thought; "if it be too late then, so much the better for him, perhaps."

Of Adelaide, the town had begun, some time since, to say, that she had tired of Philip Withers,--that
she did not appreciate him, could not understand him,--he was too deep for her. Foolish town!
She had only found him out, and learned to hate him as fiercely as she despised him unutterably.
She had truly loved the man, and her shrewd heart had played the detective for his Madeline secret.

For such a Fouché a slighter clue would have sufficed to lead to the conviction of so besotted
a traitor, than many an incautious hint of his, and many a tale-telling vaunt of his irresistible
egotism, afforded her; for, like all the weak wretches of his sort, there was not a more bungling
lout, to try the patience of a clever man, than Philip Withers, when his game lay between his
safety and his vanity.

To Adelaide's hand Simon Blount came timely and well-trained. At once she set him on Withers,
as one would hie on a good dog at a thief; and it was not long before she had the pleasure
of seeing the chase brought to the ground.

Withers had heard of a graceful neck, and white, dimpled shoulders, at the Athenæum; so accomplished
a connoisseur as he must not let them pass unappreciated. So he hastened to discharge his duty
to æsthetic society by honoring them with his admiration and exalting patronage. On any transparent
pretext,--the more transparent the better, he thought, for the proprietress of the white shoulders
and the bewitching shape, who "no doubt understood,"--he dropped in often at the little bookstore,
to begin with a "how-do?" and conclude with an "au revoir,"--the ineffable puppy! upon whose
vicious vanity the cold, still, statuesque scorn of Miss Wimple was grandly lost. At last,
at the Splurge house one evening, in the presence of Adelaide and Simon, he was betrayed by
his egotism into boasting, by insinuation, of certain successes at the Circulating Library
most damaging to Miss Wimple's reputation for understanding and good taste; he was "in her
books," he said.

An accordant glance passed between Adelaide and Simon. When Withers retired, Simon followed
him, and under Adelaide's window, and under her eyes, he boxed the ears of Philip, the Debonair.
After that, Mr. Withers was discreeter.

But Miss Wimple's trial was not yet at its worst. The low-necked dress had been as unseasonable
as the substitution of the hooped skirt for the quilted petticoat was imprudent. Before Madeline
had been gone a week, she contracted, as was to be feared, a heavy cold, which within a month
assumed a chronic bronchial form, attended with alarming symptoms. The extreme dejection of
spirits, consequent upon her persecuted loneliness, had predisposed her to disease in the first
place, and aggravated its character when it came.

At last she fell dangerously ill, and with the closing of the shop--for she could hire no one
to attend in it--came poverty in its most dreadful form. But for the charity of her kind physician,
who sent a servant-girl, a mere child, to nurse her, and daily kept her supplied with proper
nourishment from his own house, she would, so it seemed to her, have died of neglect and starvation.
Yet better, she thought, to depart even so, than linger on, when such lingering taxed the patience
and the faith beyond the loftiest examples of religion. Miss Wimple was too stout-hearted to
cry for death, though she felt, that, having lived with heroism, she could at least die with
presence of mind. She waited, with a composure that had a strange quality of pride.

In her New York home, Mrs. Morris, the governess, was as happy as she dared to feel. In Mr.
Osgood's family she had found all things as Miss Wimple had promised. Treated with studious
deference and consideration, not unmixed with affection, she enjoyed for her secret thoughts
the most privileged privacy. Her brave gratitude was superior to the distress a weaker woman
might have suffered from the necessity of making Mr. Osgood unreservedly acquainted with her
story, in order to enlist his aid to procure tidings of Miss Wimple, whose safety, health,
and happiness were now far dearer to her than her own.

She did tell him all, and had reason to thank God for the courage that made it a possible,
even an easy, thing for her to do. Her truly noble benefactor and protector, receiving her
communication as if he then heard it for the first time, assured her that in thus confiding
in the freedom of his mind, and in his honor, she had set up a new and stronger claim to his
interest and friendly care. She had but enlarged his obligation to his until then unknown correspondent
for having given his children, to whom their governess had already truly endeared herself,
so admirable a teacher, so precious a friend.

["But why," you will ask, "did not Madeline write to Miss Wimple?" Because that provident angel
had, without explanation, exacted from her a promise that she would in no case write first.
In truth, Miss Wimple foresaw her own various suffering, and sought to spare Madeline some
cruel pangs, and herself the hard trial of disingenuous correspondence.]

And Mr. Osgood would have started at once for Hendrik, where he was not personally known to
any one, to procure tidings of Miss Wimple and allay the anxiety of Mrs. Morris, had Madeline
not found, that very day, her name in the Herald's list of letters waiting to be called for
in the New York Post-Office. That letter was, indeed, for Madeline, and its contents were as
follows:--

"To Miss MADELINE SPLURGE,--Miss Wimple, of Hendrik, is very ill, and poor, and friendless.
It has been suggested to the writer of this that you can help her. If you can, and will, there
is no time to lose. A FRIEND."

The "friend" was Simon Blount. Ever since the Athenæum was closed, he had hung anxiously about
the place, frequently dropping in upon the neighbors to ask--quite by-the-byishly, and by chance,
it seemed to them--after the health of Miss Wimple; and sometimes he waylaid the little servant,
as she passed to and fro between the bookstore and the doctor's residence, and plied her with
questions. On such occasions he was sure to make the little maid the depository of certain
silver secrets, which forthwith she revealed to Miss Wimple in the shape of whole basketfuls
of comfortable stuff, "from the Doctor." Adelaide had given the hint for this letter. Calling
at the Athenæum one day, about a fortnight after Madeline's departure, her quick eye caught
sight of a bit of paper lying on the counter, whereon was freshly written, "Madeline Splurge."
Miss Wimple had been entering some trifling charge in the course of her small book-keeping,
and, still dallying with the pen, a passing thought, less idle than anxious, had traced the
name. On that slight foundation Adelaide had built a happy guess, though Simon knew it not,--and
though he accepted her suggestion, it amazed him.

Let us lift the curtain now, on the last, an extraordinary, tableau. In the Wimple nest a strange
company are met at the bidding of Madeline Splurge, who couches a flashing lance for the life
and the honor of her benefactress.

Proudly, condescendingly, haughtily superior to the least sparing of herself,--as one who stooped
at the bidding of Duty,--she had told her story, from first to last, omitting nothing; with
head erect, pale lips, and flashing eyes,--with a passing flush, perhaps, at the more shameful
passages, but with no faltering, no dodging, no self-excusing, no beseeching,--scornfully when
she spoke of home, and the beginning of the end,--redly, hatefully, wickedly dangerous, when
Philip Withers came on the scene,--with tremulous lips and the low tones of Gratitude's most
moving eloquence for the story of Miss Wimple and her sublimely simple sacrifice,--modestly
and with grateful deference, at the mention of Mr. Osgood and his rare chivalry.

Then, taking from her bosom a small morocco pocket-book, and from the pocket-book a card, she
said,--

"And now to toss that thing to the geese of Hendrik! Read that, slowly, distinctly, that all
may hear!"--and she placed the card in Simon's hand, who ran his eye over it for a moment,
then stood up, and read:--

"MADELINE,--For God's sake be merciful, be reasonable! I will comply with your hardest terms,--I
will share all I possess with you, [Adelaide smiled,]--I will even marry you after a time;
but do not, I implore you, in your recklessness, involve me in your unnecessary ruin; do not
fling me under the playful feet of that ingenious shrew Adelaide. Meet me at the bridge tonight,
in memory of our dear old love."

"P.W."

When Simon had read the card, he let it fall on the floor, with a gesture of disgust, and,
without looking at Withers, who slunk, pitifully wilted, into a corner, returned to his place
on a low stool, where he resumed his former attitude, holding the hand of Sally Wimple, who
now, with closed eyes, reclined on Madeline's bosom, --that bosom that was, for her weariness,
the type of the complete rest that crowns and blesses a brave struggle,--of that all-for-the-best-ness
that comes of the heart's clearings-up. Only Adelaide broke the silence; with her gaze fixed
full on Withers, and a triumphant sneer crowning her happy lips, she uttered one word by way
of chorus,--"Joseph!"

At that word a faint flush flitted athwart the cheeks of Madeline, and she moved as if uneasy;
but she did not speak again, nor turn her eyes to any face but Miss Wimple's.

Josephine Splurge was there; but, perceiving no opening that she could fill to advantage with
a delightful quotation, and having no pickle at hand whereto she might give all her mind, she
supported a graceful silence with back hair and an attitude.

Mrs. Splurge was there,--and that was all. Not clearly understanding what she was called upon
to say or do under the circumstances, nor prepared to take the responsibility of saying or
doing anything without being called upon, she said and did nothing at all. Mrs. Splurge, who
had had some experience in that wise, had never been of so little consequence before.

Near the head of the bed, his looks directed toward Miss Wimple with an expression of benevolent
solicitude, sat a gentleman of middle age, rather handsome, his hair inclined to gray, his
attire fine, but studiously simple.

"Mrs. Morris," he said, "may I be permitted to speak a word here?"

"Surely, Mr. Osgood."

"Then, ladies and gentlemen, since doubtless we understand each other by this time, I think
it advisable that we retire, and leave Miss Wimple to much-needed repose."

All arose and passed out, Mrs. Splurge leading the way, Mr. Osgood holding the door. Last of
all, and with a pitiful shyness, as if dodging some fresh discomfiture and exposure, came Philip
Withers.

"The door is at your service, Sir," said Mr. Osgood, as he passed; "to be sure, the window
were more appropriate for your passage; but to attach importance to your existence by suddenly
endangering it is an honor I am not prepared to pay you."

Madeline remained with Miss Wimple.

Now Miss Wimple is Simon Blount's wife, and they live with his mother. The debt of the Athenæum
is paid.

Adelaide abides at the Splurge house,--a reserved, bitter, forbidding woman.

Mrs. Splurge still lives; but that is of as little consequence as ever.

I assert it for an astonishing fact,--Philip Withers married Josephine! Truly, the ways of
Providence are as just as they are inscrutable. The meanness of Withers, mated to the selfish,
helpless, peevish stupidity of Josephine, made an ingenious retribution.

When I was at the opera, a few nights since, I saw in a private box a benevolent-looking gentleman
of middle age, evidently well-born and accustomed to wealth. He was accompanied by a lady in
elegant mourning,--a lady of decided beauty and distinguished appearance.

Miss Flora McFlimsey was there:--"That," said she, "is Mrs. Morris, of Fourteenth Street,--a
mysterious governess in the family of Mr. Osgood; and the gentleman is Mr. Osgood."

NATURE AND THE PHILOSOPHER.

  What dost thou here, pale chemist, with thy brow
  Knotted with pains of thought, nigh hump-backed o'er
  Thy alembics and thy stills? These garden-flowers,
  Whose perfumes spice the balmy summer-air,
  Teach us as well as thee. Thou dost condense
  Healthy aromas into poison-drops,
  Narcotic drugs of dangerous strength and power,--
  And wines of paradise to thee become
  Intoxicating essences of hell.
  Cold crystallizer of the warm heaven's gold!
  Thou rigorous analyst! thou subtile brain!
  Gathering thought's sunshine to a focus heat
  That blinds and burns and maddens! What, my friend!
  Are we, then, salamanders? Do we live
  A charmèd life? Do gases feed like air?
  Pray you, pack up your crucibles and go!
  Your statements are too awfully abstract;
  Your logic strikes too near our warm tap-roots:
  We shall breathe freer in our natural air
  Of common sense. What are your gallipots
  And Latin labels to this fresh bouquet?--
  Friend, 'tis a pure June morning. Ask the bees,
  The butterflies, the birds, the little girls.
  We are after flowers. You are after--what?
  Aconite, hellebore, pulsatilla, rheum.
  Take them and go! and take your burning lens!
  We dare not bask in the sun's genial beams
  Drawn to that spear-like point. Truth comes and goes,
  Life-giving in diffusion. Nature flows, extends,
  And veils us with herself,--herself God's veil.
  But you persist in opening your bladders,
  And the three gases that compose the air
  You bid us take a breath of, one by one.
  For Mother Nature you should have respect:
  She does not like these teasings and these jokes.
  Philosopher you seem; you'd state all fair;
  You would go deep and broad. You're right; but then
  Forget not there's an outer to your inner,--
  A whole that binds your parts,--a truth for man
  As well as chemist,--and your lecture-room,
  With magic vials and quaint essences
  And odors strange, may teach your students less
  Than this June morning, with the sun and flowers.

THOMAS JEFFERSON.[1]

The biography before us is so voluminous that it can hardly maintain the popularity to which
its subject entitles it. He must be a bold man, and to some degree forgetful of the brevity
of life, who, for any ordinary purpose of information or amusement, undertakes to read these
huge octavos. True, the theme is somewhat extended; Jefferson's life was a protracted and busy
one; he took a leading part in complicated transactions, and promulgated doctrines which cannot
be summarily discussed. But the author's prolixity has not grown out of the extent of his theme
alone. He is both diffuse and digressive. He introduces much irrelevant matter, and tells everything
in a round-about-way. By a judicious exercise of the arts of elimination and compression, we
think that all which illustrates the subject might have been comprised in one volume much smaller
than the smallest of these.

But Mr. Randall's most serious fault arises from his desire to be thought a fine writer. Without
making long extracts, it is impossible to give any conception of the absurdities into which
this childish ambition has led him. The tropes and metaphors, the tawdry tinsel, the common
tricks of feeble rhetoricians are reproduced here as if they were the highest results of rhetorical
art. The display is often amusing. Thus, in describing Mrs. John Adams, Mr. Randall says: "Her
lofty lineaments carried a trace of the Puritan severity. They were those of the helmed Minerva,
and not of the cestus-girdled Venus." We do not mention this in order to justify a strain of
captious criticism, but to ask Mr. Randall, in all seriousness, how it was possible for him
to associate a staid and sensible New England matron with Venus and Minerva? What would he
say of a writer who should gravely tell us that Washington's features were those of the cloud-compelling
Jupiter, not of Mars, slayer of men,--and that Franklin's countenance resembled that of the
wily Ulysses, not that of the far-ruling Agamemnon? We might fill this paper with passages
like the one we have quoted. What is the use of this kind of writing? It does not convey any
meaning; there is no beauty in it; it increases the size and price of books; it corrupts the
taste of the young, is offensive to persons of good sense, and mortifying to those who take
pride in the literary reputation of their country. It is the bane of our literature. Many of
our prose-writers constantly put language upon paper the use of which in ordinary life would
be received by a court as evidence of insanity. If they do so for display, they take the readiest
course to defeat their purpose. There is nothing so fascinating as simplicity and earnestness.
A writer who has an object, and goes right on to accomplish it, will compel the attention of
his readers. But it seems, that in art, as well as in morals and politics, the plainest truths
are the last to be understood.

We make these strictures with reluctance. This biography, in many respects, is valuable, and
Mr. Randall might easily have made it interesting. He had a subject worthy of any pen, and
an abundance of new material. He does not lack skill. His unstudied passages, though never
elegant, are well enough. He is industrious. Though we must dissent from some of his conclusions,
he is entitled to the praise of being accurate, and is free from prejudice,--except that amiable
prejudice which has been well called the lues Boswelliana.[1] His delineations of famous personages,
though marked by the faults of which we have spoken, show quite unusual perception of character.
He has a thorough appreciation of Jefferson's noblest characteristics, and an honorable sympathy
with the philosophy of which Jefferson was a teacher.

[Footnote 1: The Life of Thomas Jefferson. By HENRY S. RANDALL, LL. D. In three volumes. New
York: Derby & Jackson. 1858.]

With resources and qualifications like these, he might have produced a biography which the
country would have received with gratitude, and which would have conferred an enviable reputation
upon him; as it is, through his neglect of a few wholesome rules which he must have learned
when a school-boy, the years of labor he has spent over this book will go for nothing, and
the hopes he has built upon it will be disappointed.

There is much conflict of opinion as to the character of Jefferson, and the value of his services.
We doubt whether there is another person in our history, as to whom there still exists so strong
a feeling of dislike on the one hand, and of admiration on the other. By some he is regarded
as a theorist and a demagogue, who, for selfish purposes, opposed the purest patriots, and
disseminated doctrines which will pervert our institutions and destroy our social fabric; by
others he is revered as the philosopher who first asserted the rights of man, and the statesman
who first defined the functions of our government and demonstrated the principles upon which
it should he administered. His detractors and admirers both bear witness to the extent and
permanency of his influence. He saw all the phases of our national life. He assisted in the
struggle for liberty, and in the contest which gave form to that liberty,--while it was his
happy fortune to inaugurate the system by which, with occasional deviations, the republic,
for more than fifty years, has been governed. He heard the discussion of the Stamp Act, and
the debate on the admission of Missouri. He shared in the dispute which the establishment of
the Constitution produced, and lived to witness the outbreak of the quarrel which now threatens
the existence of the Constitution. His influence was felt through the whole of this long period.
Nor was it confined to affairs alone. He took part in all the intellectual action of his countrymen.
He was an adept in science, an ingenious mechanic, and a contributor to literature. He stimulated
adventure, and was the judicious patron of architecture and the fine arts. More than any man
of his day, to the labors of a practical statesman he brought a mind disciplined by a liberal
philosophy; and he adorned the most exalted stations with the graceful fame of learning and
polite accomplishments. It is impossible for us to touch every point of his great career. It
is difficult to dwell upon a single point without being seduced into a discussion too extended
for these pages. We may, however, be permitted, in a rapid manner, to present Mr. Jefferson
in some of those relations which seem to us to throw the strongest light upon his character
and teachings.

Peter Jefferson, the father of Thomas, was a notable man. His parents were poor, and in early
life he went into the backwoods of Virginia as a surveyor. He is described as a person of great
stature and strength. His mind was equally robust. He was a natural mathematician, and was
remarkable for hardihood and perseverance. His temper was equable, but his passions were strong
and his anger terrible. In youth his education had been neglected; but, by the wise employment
of his leisure, he obtained considerable reputation for learning throughout the rude region
where he lived. This huge man, with gigantic strength and fierce passions, is said to have
been endowed with tender sympathies, and to have had a scholar's love for Shakspeare and Addison.

Social distinctions were strictly observed at that day, but Peter Jefferson broke through them
and married a daughter of the Randolph family.

Thomas, the third child and oldest son of this marriage, was born at Shadwell, his father's
estate, on the 2d of April, 1743. The characteristics of the sire descended to the son, the
physical attributes in milder, and the intellectual in more active forms. Like many men of
his class, Peter Jefferson had perhaps an undue sense of the obstacles he had encountered through
lack of education, and was careful to provide for that of his children. As soon as possible,
Thomas was sent to school, and when nine years old, under the tuition of a Scottish clergyman,
he was introduced to the study of Latin, Greek, and French. His father died when he was fourteen
years old, leaving a considerable estate, and particular directions that Thomas should receive
a thorough classical training. The executor had some doubt as to whether it would be prudent
to send the lad to college in obedience to the paternal request; whereupon Thomas addressed
him in a little argument, which is a curious exhibition of the proclivities of his mind. In
the mathematical manner which afterwards became common with him, he urged that at home he would
lose one fourth of his time on account of the company which was attracted by his presence,
and that entertaining so many guests would be a heavier charge upon the estate than the expense
of his residence at Williamsburg.

The young disputant prevailed, and, in 1760, he was sent to William and Mary College. He remained
there two years. His acquirements, during this time, though probably not so great as Mr. Randall
would have us believe, must have been large. He had equal aptitude for the classics and mathematics.
In the latter his proficiency was remarkable, and he always retained his taste for it. Though
never a critical classical scholar, he could read Latin with ease. He was conversant with French,
and had some familiarity with Greek. In later life he studied Anglo-Saxon and Italian. But
Jefferson terminated his collegiate course with a possession far more valuable than all the
learning he could gather in the narrow curriculum of a colonial college; study had excited
in him that eager thirst for knowledge which is an appetite of the mind almost as unconquerable
as the appetites of the body.

After leaving college, he remained at Williamsburg, and entered the office of Mr. Wyeth, a
leader at the Virginia bar. Williamsburg was the capital and the centre of the most refined
society of the province. Francis Fauquier was governor. He was an Englishman, of distinguished
family, who had lost a large property in a single night's play, and had taken the appointment
to Virginia to repair his fortunes. To some of the vices and most of the accomplishments of
a man of the world he added fine talents and many solid attainments. He was, withal, a skilful
musician and a fascinating conversationist. Mr. Wyeth, and Dr. Small, professor of mathematics
at the college, were in the habit of dining with the governor at stated times, for the purpose
of conversation. Jefferson, though not yet twenty years old, was admitted to these parties.
Fauquier organized a musical society, and Jefferson, who played upon the violin, belonged to
this likewise. In these associations, the young student acquired the easy courtesy and conversational
art which afterwards greatly contributed to his success, and distinguished him even among the
gentlemen of Paris.

His life, between twenty and thirty, was judiciously employed. A closer student could hardly
have been found at Edinburgh or Heidelberg. He pursued his profession persistently, and, in
addition, made incursions into the fields of belles-lettres and political and physical science.
He early conceived a prejudice against metaphysical speculation, which was never removed. We
cannot believe that his partiality for romance was much greater. He undoubtedly had that appreciation
of the value of this department of letters which every man of sense has, and included it within
the circle of his reading because it contains much desirable knowledge. The severest criticism
which can be made upon his taste for poetry is conveyed by the statement, that, when young,
he admired Ossian, and, when old, admired Moore.

His summers were spent at Shadwell. The responsible charge of a large estate rested upon him,
and he introduced into his affairs and studies the extraordinary system which, through life,
he carried into all matters, great or small. He commenced keeping a garden-book, which, with
interruptions caused by absence, was continued until he was eighty-one years old. It contains
memoranda of vegetable phenomena, and statements of all kinds of information, in any way affecting
the economy of horticulture. He likewise kept a farm-book. His accounts were noted, without
the loss of a day, through his entire life, and every item of personal expense was separately
stated. We often find entries like these: "11 d. paid to the barber,"--"4 d. for whetting penknife,"--and
"1s. put in the church-box." On the 4th of July, 1776, we find:--"pd. Sparhawk, for a thermometer,
£3 15s.--pd. for 7 prs. women's gloves, 27s.--gave, in charity, 1s. 6d." His meteorological
register informs us, that, at 6 o'clock, A.M., of the same memorable day, the mercury stood
68° above; at noon, at 76°; and at 9, P.M., at 73-1/2°. Entries were regularly made in this
register, three times a day. Separate books were kept for special accounts, like the expenses
of the Presidential mansion. In addition, he made minute records of observation in natural
history, and a curious "Statement of the Vegetable Market of Washington, during a Period of
Eight Years, wherein the Earliest and Latest Appearance of each Article, within the whole Eight
Years, is noted." This table mentions thirty-seven different articles, and was compiled during
his Presidency. He made a collection of the vocabularies of fifty Indian languages, and two
collocations of those passages in the New Testament which contain the doctrines of Jesus. One
of these, entitled, "The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth," is an octavo volume, with a
complete index. The texts are written out in Greek, Latin, French, and English, and placed
in parallel columns.

Mr. Randall makes a long argument to defend Jefferson from the common imputation, that a man
who was so fond of detail could not have had much capacity for higher effort. It was hardly
worth while to expose a delusion which is so apparent, especially in the case of Jefferson.
Men are often seen with great aptitude for the accumulation of facts, and none for the comprehension
of principles. Such men, though never great, are always useful. But the most useless and unfortunate
organization is that quite common one, where a speculative mind is found which has not sufficient
energy to lay hold of details. These philosophers, as the foolish call them, are the ingenious
contrivers of the impracticable reforms, the crazy enterprises, and the numberless panaceas
for all human ills, which are constantly urged upon the public, and which, under the name of
progress, are the most serious obstacles to progress. Both faculties are necessary to one who
undertakes high and useful action. Mr. Jefferson was a philosopher because he was a constant
and accurate observer; he was correct in his generalizations because he was so in matters of
detail.

His career at the bar was short. The acquisition of a science like the law was an easy task
for a mind so ingenious and active as his. He had no talent as an advocate, but was at once
successful in the more retired and not less difficult departments of the profession. During
seven years' practice, his income averaged three thousand dollars a year;--a large sum then,
and no mean reward at the present day.

When twenty-nine years old, he married Mrs. Martha Skelton, a young and childless widow, of
great beauty. In relation to this affair a pleasant anecdote is told. Mr. Jefferson had a number
of rivals. Two of these gentlemen met, one evening, in the drawing-room of Mrs. Skelton's house.
While waiting for her to enter, they heard her singing in an adjoining room, and Jefferson
playing an accompaniment upon the violin. There was something in the burden of the air, and
in the expression with which the performers rendered it, which conveyed unpleasant suggestions;
and the two suitors, after listening awhile, departed without seeing the lady. The inevitable
account-book mentions the sums paid to the clergyman, fiddlers, and servants, on the occasion
of the marriage.

His wife's fortune, as he informs us, doubled his own, and placed him in a position of pecuniary
independence. He soon abandoned his profession, and thenceforward his career was a public one.
He entered political life at the time when it first became evident that a war with England
must occur, and threw himself into the extreme party. He was admirably fitted for success in
a legislative body. His talents were deliberative, rather than executive. He had no power in
debate, but he possessed qualities which we believe are more uniformly influential in a public
assemblage,--tact, industry, a conciliatory disposition, and systematic habits of thought.
He was always familiar with the details of legislation. The majority of the members of a legislature
can seldom know much about its business. Those questions which excite popular attention and
become party tests are inquired into; but most matters attract no attention and are not party
tests. Only a few men of great industry and rare powers are familiar with these. In the British
House of Commons, it is said, there are not more than thirty or forty such members. In either
branch of our Congress the proportion is no larger. It is a great power to know that which
others find it necessary to know; and if to this information one adds good judgment and a persuasive
intellect, his influence will be almost unbounded. Young as he was, no one could approach Jefferson
without seeing that he had read and thought much. While most of his comrades in Virginia had
been wasting their youth in horse-racing and cock-fighting, he had been an enthusiastic student
of books and Nature. Upon all subjects likely to excite inquiry his knowledge was full and
precise, and his opinions those of a sagacious and philosophic mind. His manners were attractive;
he never engaged in dispute; he expressed himself freely to those who sought his society for
information or an intelligent comparison of opinion; but his lips were closed in the presence
of a disputant. The patience with which he listened to others, and the modest candor with which
he expressed himself, usually disarmed the contentions; when they did not, he went no farther.
If his views were false, he did not wish them to prevail; if they were true, he felt certain
that sooner or later they would prevail. A temperament like this might have placed a less firm
man under the imputation of disingenuousness; but such an imputation could not rest upon him.
No one was in doubt as to his opinions. He generally anticipated inquiry, and selected his
ground before others saw that action would be necessary. There were capable lawyers and men
of wide experience in our Revolutionary legislatures, but there was no one whose influence
was more powerful and felt upon a greater variety of subjects than that of Jefferson.

He might, however, have possessed all of these characteristics, and enjoyed the consideration
among his fellow-legislators which they confer, without being well known to the public, if
he had not united to them the ability to write elegant and forcible English. The circumstances
of the time made literary talents unusually valuable. The daily press has driven the essayist
out of the political field. But for several generations elaborate disquisitions upon politics
had been usual in England; in this regard pamphlets then occupied the place of our newspapers.
Bolingbroke, Swift, Johnson, and Burke, all the serious and some of the gay writers, acquired
repute by this kind of effort. Neither were the speeches of leading men circulated then as
at present. At the time of the Revolution, an oration never reached those who did not hear
it. This gave a great advantage to the writer. The pamphlets of Otis and Thomas Paine were
read by multitudes who never heard a word of the eloquence of Henry and Adams. A high standard
of taste had been created, and success in political dissertation was difficult, but, when obtained,
it was of proportionate value, and the source of wide and permanent influence. Jefferson found
a function requiring much the same talents with that of the pamphleteer, but possessing some
advantages over it. The only means which the Continental Congress and the colonial legislatures
had of communicating with their constituents and the mother country was by formal addresses.
These documents were arguments upon public questions, possessing the force which an argument
always has when it is the expression of great numbers of minds. An audience was certain. At
home they were sure to be read, and in England they attracted the attention of every one connected
with affairs. Jefferson's literary talents were soon discovered. One successful performance
in the Virginia House of Delegates established a reputation which the Declaration of Independence
has made immortal.

In every point of view, Jefferson is entitled to a high place in American literature. As a
mere rhetorician, he has few equals; as a political writer, not more than two or three. An
adherence to logical forms and the use of mathematical illustrations are his most noticeable
faults. But they are not found in his more elaborate performances. He has the supreme merit
of perfect clearness, naturalness, and grace of expression. Though never eloquent, he sometimes
rises to an earnest and dignified declamation. Not infrequently he has achieved the highest
success, and clothed valuable thought in language so appropriate, that the phrases have passed
into the national vocabulary and become popular catchwords. His first inaugural address contains
more of those expressions which are daily heard in our political discussions than any other
American composition. There has been some speculation as to how it was possible for a gentleman,
with no other discipline than that afforded by a colonial establishment, to obtain a mastery
over so difficult an art. There is little reason for surprise. Jefferson's training had been
good; he was familiar with the best models; above all, Nature had given him the qualities which,
with the requisite knowledge, insure literary success,--good sense, good taste, and an ear
sensitive to the melody of prose.

We do not propose to follow Jefferson throughout his political career. As to his Revolutionary
services there is little difference of opinion. His course during the administrations of Washington
and Adams has given occasion to most of the criticism which he has encountered. We will direct
our attention chiefly to that period of his life. He appeared then as the leader of a party
which was intent upon carrying certain principles into operation, and for a comprehension of
his conduct an examination of those principles is necessary.

Mr. Randall would have done a good service, if he had made a brief analysis of Jefferson's
political system. It affords a fine theme and is much needed, because Jefferson himself left
no systematic exposition of his doctrines. They must be sought for through a large number of
state papers and a voluminous correspondence. Like all public men, he has been misrepresented
both by opponents and adherents. There is a vague impression abroad that he enunciated certain
liberal theories, that he was an ardent philanthropist, and that his opinions were those which
have prevailed among the modern French philosophers; but the boundaries of his system do not
seem to be well defined in the public mind. His theory of politics may, with sufficient accuracy,
be said to be embraced in the following propositions:--First. All men are politically equal.
Second. A representative government upon the basis of universal suffrage is the direct result
of that equality, and the surest means of preserving it. Third. The sphere of government is
limited, and its action must be confined to that sphere.

The first proposition is contained in the statement which occurs in the Declaration of Independence,
"that all men are created equal." This remark has been severely criticized, and we think there
has been much confusion as to its meaning. Jefferson could not have intended to say that all
men are equal in the sense of being alike. Such an assertion would be absurd. Undoubtedly he
recognized, as every one must, the infinite diversity and disparity of intellectual and physical
qualities. The equality of which he spoke does not consist in equal endowments, but in equal
rights,--in the right of each man to the enjoyment of his individual gifts, whatever they may be.

The proposition, that a representative government upon the basis of universal suffrage is the
direct result of man's equality and the surest means of preserving it, opens a wide field for
discussion, into which we will not enter. It is not peculiar to Jefferson. We must, however,
remark, that he did not hold the extreme opinions upon this subject which have been attributed
to him. He thought that popular institutions could be established, and the elective franchise
safely made universal, only in an intelligent and virtuous community. In France he advised
La Fayette and Barnave to be contented with a constitutional monarchy. When the South American
States rebelled, and Clay and many other statesmen were enraptured with the prospect of a Continent
of Republics, Jefferson declared that they were not prepared for republican governments, and
could not maintain them. At the same time, he was very far from thinking, as some of our modern
writers do, that men can become fit for freedom by remaining slaves.

The third proposition, that the sphere of government is limited and its action should be confined
to that sphere, is the one to the illustration of which Mr. Jefferson specially devoted himself.
Upon his services in this respect rest his claims to consideration as a political philosopher.

It has been the custom to think that the government was the only source of honor; it is still
looked upon as the source of the highest honor. By barbarians the monarch is deified. In many
civilized countries of our own time kings are said to rule by special favor of the Deity; no
one stands erect, no loud word is spoken in their presence; and, indeed, everywhere they are
approached with a reverence so great that more could hardly be shown to God himself. This homage
is not given on account of eminent personal attributes. These persons are well understood to
be often mean in mind and meaner in morals. The same feeling is shown towards other high officials.
To be in the public service is eagerly coveted; such employment attracts the finest minds,
and is most munificently rewarded. It is so in this country. We are accustomed to confer upon
official characters honors which we would refuse to a Shakspeare or a Newton. Yet it is well
known, that, while the comprehension and elucidation of the great laws which govern society
are a labor which will task the strength of the strongest, in ordinary times affairs may be,
and generally are, quite acceptably administered by men of no marked intellectual superiority.
It is not necessary to say that the sentiment must be wrong which leads us to such strange
errors, --which obliterates the broadest distinctions, and persuades us to give to feebleness
and vice rewards which should be given to genius and virtue alone.

For the wisest purposes, the Creator has planted within us an instinctive disposition to revere
the illustrious of our kind. To win that admiration is the most powerful incentive to action,--it
is the ardent desire of passionate natures. The sweet incense of popular applause is more delicious
than wine to the senses of man. Deservedly obtained, it heals every wound, and soothes all
pain; nay, the mere hope of it will steel him against every danger, and sustain him amidst
disease, penury, neglect, and oppression. To bestow this reverence is a pleasure hardly less
exquisite. While we commune with the intellects and contemplate the virtues of the great, some
portion of their exceeding light descends upon us, their aspiring spirits enter our breasts
and raise us to higher levels. But to yield our homage to those who do not deserve it is to
pervert a pure and noble instinct. We cannot worship the degraded, except by sinking to lower
depths of degradation.

When one considers that the admitted functions of government have been almost without limit,
this mistaken sentiment is not to be wondered at. Why should not they who are able to provide
for every want of the body or soul be revered as Superior beings? Governments have established
creeds, and set bounds to science; they have been the censors of literature, and held men in
slavery; they have told the citizen how many meals to eat, how many prayers to say, how to
wear his beard, and in what manner to educate his children; there is no action so trivial,
no concern so important, nor any sentiment so secret, that the governing power has not interfered
with and sought to control it. This system has invariably failed; constantly coming in contact
with each man's sense of individuality, it has been the prolific source of revolutions, despotisms,
the ruin of states, the extirpation of races,--and in its mildest forms, where life has been
preserved, everything which makes life desirable has been destroyed. In most countries this
system still exists to a great degree, nor is there any country whence it is entirely eradicated.

Seeing the constant and uniform occurrence of these evils, Mr. Jefferson was led to believe
that they were not caused by a remediable imperfection in the existing system, but by radical
defects. He concluded that they were produced by an attempt on the part of government to do
what it could not,--that the power of government was limited by absolute and inherent laws,
like those which limit the strength of man,--and that there were certain functions belonging
to government, in going beyond which it not only failed of its purpose, but did positive harm.
In this view, the definition of these functions becomes a task of great difficulty and involves
the whole science of politics. We cannot follow his entire line of argument, and without detail
there is danger that our statement will not be sufficiently qualified. His general theory,
however, is simple, and is drawn from his first proposition as to the equal rights of man.
He held that the object of society is the preservation of these great rights. Since experience
teaches us, that, however incompetent we may be to decide upon the interests of others, we
are able to regulate our own, this social purpose will be best accomplished by leaving to each
one all the liberty consistent with the general safety. Security, being the only common object,
should be the sole duty of the common agent. The government being confined to the performance
of this negative duty, it must not exercise its power except when necessary. The inquiry, Is
it necessary? not, Is it advantageous? is the test to be applied to every measure. The rigid
application of this rule excludes the state from any interference with commerce and industry,--from
all matters of religion and opinion,--and limits its financial operations to providing in the
most direct manner for its own support. But it is to be noticed, that it is consistent with
this scheme, and indeed the fruit of it, that, in the sphere which it does occupy, the government
should be absolute.

Mr. Jefferson formed the governmental machinery in strict accordance with this principle. As
many measures are necessary for one portion of a community and not for another, he insisted
that local affairs should be placed in the hands of local authorities. The integrity of his
system depends not only upon the limitation of the governing power, in a general sense, but
as well upon the division and dispersion of it.

The principal exception which Jefferson made was in respect of education. But, according to
his view, this can hardly be regarded as an exception. The general safety depends so directly
upon that recognition of mutual rights which is not to be found except among intelligent men,
that he advised the establishment, not only of common schools, but likewise of colleges and
schools of Art.

To those who objected, that this system would limit the action and decrease the splendor of
a nation, Jefferson replied, that its effects were quite the reverse. In proportion as a government
assumes the duties which ought to be performed by the citizen, it acts as a check upon individual
and national development. Under a despotism, culture must be confined to a few, nor can there
be much variety of effort and production. Under a government which is confined to its proper
field, the talents of each man may be freely used, and he will not be forced into relations
for which he is unsuited. The absurd prejudice, that public employment is the most honorable,
will pass away. The man of letters and the man of science, the poet, the artist, and the inventor,
the financier, the navigator, the merchant, every one who performs beneficial service and displays
great qualities, will be rewarded. Every one who is conscious that he possesses such qualities
will be stimulated to strive for that reward. This universal action will give birth to all
the things which adorn a state. Social disturbances will excite investigation, and evils which
governments have never been able to reach may be removed. Competition will make the accumulation
of large estates difficult, property will be equalized, but no motive to effort destroyed.
Science will be encouraged. Every day will add to the number of those contrivances which facilitate
labor, increase production, lessen distance, and raise man from the degradation of an existence
wholly occupied with providing for his physical wants. Under these elastic laws, religion,
philanthropy, art, learning, the social amenities, the domestic influences, all humanizing
agents, will have opportunity and work harmoniously for the advancement of the race.

It will be seen that Mr. Jefferson's political system was that which, in the language of the
modern schools, is called individual theory. It has been said, that it is based upon too favorable
an estimate of human character, and that he obtained it from the French philosophers.

It seems to us that the reproach of Utopian opinions may more justly be thrown upon his opponents.
The latter do not escape the evil from which they fly. They proceed upon the belief that man
is unfit for self-government; but since every government is one of men, if he cannot control
himself, how shall he rule over others? Whatever may be said about the superiority of men of
genius, it is certain that there never has existed an intellect capable of providing for all
the minute and varying necessities of each individual among many millions. The history of legislation
shows that the best-disciplined minds find it difficult to devise a single statute affecting
a single interest which will be precise in its terms and equal in its operation. These railers
at the majority of their kind seem to expect in the minority a greater than human perfection.
Mr. Jefferson proceeded upon a mere moderate estimate of the abilities, and a more just appreciation
of the weakness of men. It is because we are easily led astray and blinded by passion, that
he thought us unfit to govern others, and that we should limit our efforts to self-government.
His confidence in man was no greater than that which is the foundation of Christianity. The
whole Christian scheme is one of the broadest democracy. The most important truths are there
submitted to the general judgment and conscience of mankind, with no other recommendation than
their value and the force of the evidence by which they are attested. Can it be said that we
are not fit to decide upon a tax, yet are fit to decide our fate for all the mysterious future?
If Jefferson was an enthusiast, every clergyman who calls his bearers to repentance must be
mad. He did have confidence in his fellows,--he did believe that we are not helpless slaves
of sin, that the evils which afflict us are not inevitable,--and that we have power to lead
lives of justice and virtue. Who will accuse him because of this confidence?

The charge of French principles originated in a political contest. It was true in the narrow
application which it had at first, but false in that which was afterwards given to it. There
is a marked distinction between him and the politicians of France. Rousseau, perhaps the ablest,
certainly the most popular, of those who preceded the Revolution, is an example. The Contrat
Social constantly carries the idea, that the government is the seat of all power and the source
of all national action. No suggestion is made, that there are individual functions with which
the state cannot interfere to advantage. The same opinions prevailed among the Encyclopedists
and Economists, they were announced by the Gironde and the Mountain, and practically carried
out by Robespierre and Barras. The Girondists made cautious approaches towards federalism,
but one looks in vain through the speeches of Vergniaud for an intimation of individualism.
The modern doctrinaires have retained the same principles. Legitimists, Imperialists, Republicans,
Socialists, and Communists are all in favor of a centralized and unlimited government. The
last two classes wish to exercise the governing power upon the minutest details of life,--to
establish public baths, shops, theatres, dwellings, to control the amusements and direct the
occupations of the citizen, and to divide his social status by law. Comte himself, whose general
system might be expected to lead him to a different conclusion, outdoes them all, and proposes
to prescribe creeds, establish fasts, feasts, and forms of worship, and even to name those
who shall receive divine honors. There is no trace here of that scrupulous regard for personal
independence and that invincible distrust of governmental action which characterized Jefferson.
It is true, he and the Gallic writers agreed upon certain fundamental propositions; but they
were peculiar neither to him nor them. Some of the same principles were announced by Locke
and Beccaria, by Hobbes, who maintained the omnipotence of the state, and by Grotius, who insisted
upon the divine right of kings. To agree with another upon certain matters does not make one
his disciple. No one mistakes the doctrines of Paul for those of Mohammed, because both taught
the immortality of the soul. To confound Jefferson with Rousseau or Condorcet is about as reasonable
as to confound Luther with Loyola, or Ricardo with Jeremy Bentham.

Although we deny that Jefferson was indebted to France for his political system, it cannot
be claimed that he was the author of it. He himself used to assert, that the scheme of a limited
and decentralized government was produced by the events which caused the settlement of the
country and the subsequent union of the colonies. The emigration to America was stimulated
by the great Protestant and Catholic dispute which occupied Europe nearly two centuries, and
during which time the original thirteen colonies were founded. The sentiment of religious freedom
was the active principle of all the alliances, wars, intrigues, and adventures of that stormy
period. The rights of conscience were maintained, in defiance of the rack and the stake. They
were stubbornly asserted in regard to the smallest matters. Lines of separation, so fine as
hardly to be perceptible, were defended to the last. The Catholic was not more irreconcilably
opposed to the Protestant, than the Lutheran to the Quaker, or the Puritan to the Baptist.
Men who differed merely about the meaning of a single passage of Scripture thought each other
unfit to sit at the same table. The immigrants were exiles. By the conditions under which they
acted, as being from the defeated party, and as being among those whom defeat did not subdue,
they must have had the enthusiasm of their time in its most earnest form. Each man came here
intent upon his right to worship God in his own way. That he could never forget. It had been
impressed upon him by everything which can affect the understanding or touch the heart of man,--by
the memory of success and defeat,--by his own sufferings and the martyrdom of his brethren,--by
Bunyan's fable and by Milton's song.

But they did not lack bigotry. They were as ready to persecute those who differed with them
here as they had been at home. The last and greatest social truth, that the surest way of protecting
our own liberties is by respecting those of others, was forced upon the colonists. So general
had been the stimulants to emigration, that every European sect and party was represented in
America. Hither came Calvinists and Lutherans, Cavaliers and Roundheads, Conformists and Non-Conformists,
the precise Quaker and the elegant Huguenot, those who fled from the tyranny of Louis and those
who fled from the tyranny of Charles, worshippers of the Virgin and men who believed that to
kneel before a crucifix was as idolatrous as to kneel before the seven-headed idols of Hindostan.
These sects and parties were so equally balanced that toleration became a necessity. Seeing
that they could not oppress, men were led to think oppression wrong, and toleration was exalted
to a virtue. The theocratic spirit which prevailed at first passed away, and the great principle
was established that governments have nothing to do with religion. It does not require much
penetration to discover that a government which has unlimited power over the person and property
of the citizen will not long respect the scruples of his conscience. Religious liberty gave
birth to political freedom. The separation of the settlements from each other, even in the
same establishment, made local provisions necessary for defence, and for the transaction of
local business, and led to the division of the government.

When united action was necessary, the colonies did not attempt to reconcile their differences;
they made a union for those purposes which were common to all. The general principles which
were asserted during the Revolution were logical necessities of that event. It was a rebellion
against an unjust exercise of power. Why unjust? For no other reason than because the Americans
had an equal right with Englishmen to govern themselves. But that right must be one which was
common to all men. The rebels knew this. They did not follow Burke through his labored argument
to prove that the measures of the British ministry were inexpedient. They could not defend
their conduct before the world upon the narrow ground of a violation of the relations between
a dependency and its mother country. Those relations were not understood, and such a defence
would not have been listened to. They appealed at once to the laws of God, and for their justification
addressed those universal human instincts which give us our ideas of national and individual
freedom. The declaration that men are created equal excited no surprise then. They believed
it without a thought that it had entered the mind of a fantastic recluse in the retirement
of l'Hermitage, and, in obedience to that belief, they severed the ties of tradition and kindred,
exposed their homes and the lives of those whose lives were dearer to them than their own to
the rage of civil war, and placed all they hoped for and everything they loved upon the perilous
hazard of the sword.

At such a time Jefferson was led to the pursuit of politics. He was not in the situation of
one who, in disgust at the misery which surrounds him, retires to his study, and, from the
impulses of a kind heart, the dreams of poets, and the speculations of philosophers, fashions
a society in which there is neither envy, anger, ambition, nor avarice, but where, amid Arcadian
joys, all men live in peace and happiness. He was compelled to think because he had need to
act, --to make real laws for real societies. To do this, he did not meditate upon human frailty
and perfectibility; he did not attempt to frame institutions carefully graduated to suit the
dissimilar dispositions, faculties, and desires of men. In the spirit with which he had observed
the phenomena of Nature in order to discover the laws which produced them, he inspected the
social phenomena of his country to learn the laws by which it might be governed. He studied
the processes by which a few hamlets, hastily built upon a savage shore, had grown into powerful
communities,--by which the heirs to centuries of bitter recollections had been made to forget
the jealousies of race, the enmities of party, the bad hatred of sect, and united into one
brotherhood for the accomplishment of a common and noble purpose. He took man as he found him,
and believed he could govern himself because he had done so. He endeavored to give symmetry
to the system which was already established. It is not strange that in this way he arrived
at rules of policy, and assisted to put in operation a government, more perfectly adapted to
our wants, more nicely adjusted to our strength and our weakness, giving freer opportunity
to individual effort, and more firmly establishing national prosperity, better able to resist
sedition or foreign assault, than any which painful toil has created, or the imaginations of
the benevolent conceived, from the days of Plato to those of Fourier.

In our next number we shall allude to certain questions, raised by Mr. Randall's book, connected
with the early politics of the country; and we shall likewise undertake the more pleasing task
of describing the domestic life and the character of Jefferson.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PRISONER OF WAR.

Rügen is a small island, and its chief town is named Rügen also. They are both part of Prussia,
as they were in 1807, when Prussia and France were at war. At that time Herr Grosshet was burgomaster,
and a very important burgomaster, it should be understood,--taking in proof thereof Herr Grosshet's
own opinion on the subject. According to the same high authority the burgomaster was also wondrously
sharp; and the consequence of the burgomaster's sharpness was, that an amount of smuggling
went on in the town which was simply audacious. None knew better than the burgomaster that
the smuggling was audacious; scarcely a shopkeeper he knew, but laughed to his nose; but his
dignity was so great, and he had made the central authority believe so strongly in him, that
he could not lay a complaint; and the consequence of that was, that, though the townspeople
laughed at their mayor, they would not have parted with him on any account. Not a soul in the
town but knew of the smuggling, --not a soul who, publicly, was in the least aware of that
illegality.

Bertha, as she was commonly called, did not positively belong to the town, but she had lived
in it for sixteen years,--at the beginning of which time a very great commotion was created
by her discovery, at the age of three, sitting staring on the sea-beach.

She was adopted by the town generally; for there were kind hearts in it,--as most towns have,
for that matter; but she was specially adopted by Frau Klass, who took her home and straightway
reared her, under the name of Bertha,--for the reason that she had once had a daughter with
that name. The new Bertha in time met with a proposal from a flaxen-haired young sailor named
Daniel, who left Rügen the next day with a considerably lightened heart. When the foundling
had reached nineteen, three things had happened:--Dan had been away three years, and the town
had given him up forever; Bertha's mother was no more; and Bertha rather found it her duty
to submit to be married to the most odious of his sex, Jodoque by name,--a man who was detested
by no one more heartily than by Bertha herself.

I say Bertha found it her duty to be married, and thus:--Frau Klass called Jodoque her nephew,
and tried to justify a testament in Bertha's favor by suggesting to her the compensation to
her nephew of marrying him. Thus Frau Klass tried to follow both her inclination and her duty,
and died serenely at a great age,--assuring Bertha with her last breath that Daniel must be
dead, and that Jodoque was an admirable youth, when known, and not at all poor.

So Bertha came into possession of a little farm and a little house. She tried to reconcile
duty with inclination by suggesting to Jodoque the propriety of waiting; and he had waited,
till he began to question the probability of his ever entering upon the tenancy of his late
aunt's farm.

But Bertha at last yielded a consent; and the entire town, ever bearing in mind its universal
parentage of Bertha, determined to go to great lengths of rejoicing on the wedding-day; and
the burgomaster, a fool and a good man, was certainly not indifferent.

I have said France and Prussia were at war at this time; and, indeed, there were a score of
young French prisoners at the fort,--or rather, nineteen, for one got away the very day before
that mentioned as Bertha's wedding-day. Two hours after his escape he was kissing the hand
of Bertha herself, who had promised him her protection, and hidden him in Frau Klass's own
dark room.

Bertha had served the young Frenchman--who shall be called Max--with his breakfast, and was
sitting in her porch, wondering about a good many things, when Herr Jodoque arrived. She was
thinking how she should get the prisoner away,--what would be said of her, if found out,--how
decidedly odious Jodoque was,--how handsome the Frenchman was,--and how she thought he was
better-looking even than Daniel, the sailor who had been away three years.

So Herr Jodoque came up to the door of the little cottage, bringing with him a basket. Jodoque
believed in the burgomaster as a grand man, and though nobody knew better than Jodoque that
he was not very clever, he rather tried in manner to imitate the important mayor.

It is, and was, the custom in Rügen for the bridegroom to make a present, in a fancy basket,
to the bride; and that the town might not talk, Jodoque brought his bride a basket, though
it was not particularly large, nor was it particularly heavy.

Here is an inventory of its contents, which, with itself, Jodoque laid down with considerable
effect:--Imprimis,--one piece of cloth, on the use of which Jodoque gave an essay. Item,--three
cards of knitting-wool, for mittens. Item and finis,--one white rabbit, the skin of which,
Jodoque suggested, would make him a cap.

"Good!" said Bertha;--"Jodoque," she added.

"My angel!"

"You know Madame Kurrig's?"

"At the very other end of the town?"

"Go there!"

"Go there, angel?--why?"

"The silver teapot"--

"My sil--my aunt's silver teapot?"

"Just so,--Madame Kurrig"--

"Has got it?--I go!--My aunt's silver teapot!"

He ran down the little road towards the silver teapot,--for, indeed, Madame Kurrig did not
bear a superior character,--but he had not proceeded far when he came upon the burgomaster,
who was in great tribulation. Only nineteen prisoners were at the fort, and the governor had
sent down a rather imperative message to the mayor, who, replying that his loyal town could
not conceal a fugitive, met with such an answer as he had never received before in all his
life. It is a deplorable fact that he and the town were recommended to go to a place, a visit
to which the burgomaster at least hoped he should not be compelled to make.

The burgomaster was in the habit of asking people's opinions and never listening to their answers,
and he now asked Jodoque what he was to do. Jodoque suggesting that the mayor could not want
advice, the mayor admitted there was something in that,--but still a word was a word. Things,
in fact, were in a pretty state, for the burgomaster, now he had to do with the escape of a
French prisoner. And this was the case. The French were off the town, and at that time the
French had the luck to be generally sure in the matter of victory. Now if the French took the
town, and learned that the burgomaster had taken a Frenchman, (for the burgomaster felt sure
he could recover the runaway, if he chose,) the burgomaster would perform that pas seul upon
the ambient air which is far from a pleasant feat; while if the French did not take the town,
and it was brought home to him that he had neglected the duties of his office, he would lose
the position of burgomaster and be a degraded man.

Jodoque sadly wanted to reach Madame Kurrig's, but the burgomaster sadly wanted help,--though
he would not confess it openly;--so he hooked himself on to Jodoque and uttered this sentence,--"And
this detested smuggler, too!"--The effect of which was, that Jodoque became utterly pale and
trembled violently. This behavior the burgomaster attributed to his own proper presence, and
asked himself, --Could he survive degradation? No, better the tight-rope performance! So he
made up his mind to recapture the missing Frenchman.

He, meantime, being a blithe, courageous young midshipman, was gayly chattering with his protectress.
There he was laughing at her good-naturedly as she trembled for his sake, and chattering broken
German as best he could. Wealth is a good thing, and health a better; but surely high spirited
hope is worth more than the philosopher's stone.

"No, Mademoiselle,--I could bear the dark room no longer. Better an hour in the light of your
blue eyes than an age in that dark room!"

"Still--nevertheless--it is dangerous to leave the room. The burgomaster"--

"Cannot see all the way here from the town; besides, if he could, your presence would dazzle
him, and I should be safe."

"So you can trust your secret with me,--a woman?"

"I would trust it with two women,--three,--for with every disclosure there would be a fear
the less that I should be found. You cannot comprehend that,--now consider."

"La! I cannot."

"How good you are! How would they punish you, if they learned the truth?"

"Oh, a good heart--I do think I have a good heart--don't weigh this way and that when there
is a good action to be done."

"And done for the sake of a poor stranger."

"Stranger? Nonsense! I meet you,--you are in misfortune; therefore we are old friends. And
an old friend may surely lend a room to her old friend."

"And your name?"

"They call me Bertha."

"And you are single?"

"If you ask me that question an hour hence, I shall say, 'No.'"

"No!--the only harsh word you have used."

"Why harsh?"

"Well, shut up in a dark room, you have your thoughts to yourself; and you think, and think,
and think again; and you always think of the same thing; and then--then you wake up, and there's
an end to your dream."

"And how do you know I have not dreamt?--The clothes I got for you fit you well; you look a
German. Ah, you make a grimace!"

"So, you are going to be married."

"In one hour--less five minutes."

"Ah! which way am I to go?"

"Straight back into the house."

"Nonsense!--I should compromise you."

"The house is mine; surely I may do as I like with it."

"And when may I reach the coast?"

"When the night reaches us."

"Good!--and--and good-bye!"

"Well,--yes,--good-bye, I suppose,--and--and promise me one thing?"

"I do promise."

"Don't look at him."

"Him! Whom?"

"My husband--who is coming."

"He is so handsome?"

"Oh, magnificent! Good-bye! good-bye!"

Here he ran back into the dark room, while Bertha, who was a spoilt child, if the truth may
be told, pulled moodily at one of the two long, black plaits of hair she wore. And it must
be set down, sad as it is, that, seeing Jodoque coming up the road to claim her, accompanied
by a sailorly-looking personage, she went in and shut the door with a deal of vigor.

The sailorly-looking personage was young, broad-chested, handsome, and had not been in that
part of Prussia for some six years. Jodoque, prompted to sudden hospitality, had offered the
sailorly personage a seat at his marriage dinner-table, and he, with a great laugh, accepted
the invitation. He strolled leisurely on by the side of the bridegroom, until he heard the
bride's name, when behold the effect produced! For he started back, and at first showed signs
of choking his informant. However, after an awkward stare, he moved on again.

They soon came up to the door, and Jodoque was wondering why his bride did not open it wide
to him, when a bright, stout little woman, dressed out in her best, came tripping through the
garden-gate, through which the two had just passed. This little woman's name was Doome;--nobody
knew why she was called Doome, but everybody called her Doome, all over the little town.

"Good morning, gentlemen! God preserve you, Jodoque! Good morning, Bertha!"--for here the door
opened.

As she opened and appeared at the door, the sailor looked hard at her; but she did not start
as she returned his look. He thought all women were alike and forgot; but if this broad-chested
sailor could have seen his own blue jacket of six years before, perhaps it would have been
a good argument to induce him to pardon Bertha's forgetfulness.

"Good day, Miss!" said he, and brushed his cap from his head.

The same explanation touching the sailor's presence was then given to Bertha that I have given
to you,--given as the whole party were welcomed into the plain little house by its very far
from plain mistress.

"Do you remember faces, Mistress?" said the sailor to Doome.

"Yes, friend sailor."

"Do you remember them for six years?"

"La! no woman can remember for six years," said Doome.

"I think you could, Mistress," said the sailor.

And thereupon the stout little Doome blushed and curtsied.

Meanwhile the bride was thinking of the young Frenchman, and how she could keep her secret,
with half the town at the house and about it, as there would be in another half-hour. She thought
more of the young stranger every moment, and especially when she gazed upon her future,--which
seemed to grow more disagreeable each time she looked at it.

The young sailor, keeping his eyes away from Bertha,--who set to work drawing a huge mug of
beer, in which piece of hospitality Jodoque hoveringly helped her,--and addressing himself
to Doome, said,-- "Do you know, I was nearly snapped up by a shark some months ago?"

With a sympathetic shudder the little woman replied, "The shark was doubly cruel--who could--who
could take out of the world so--so fine a young man!"

"Ah! I wish he had!"

"Wish he had?"

"Yes,--his teeth wouldn't have been half so sharp as the teeth biting away at my heart now!"

"Dear!"

"Have you ever had a lover?"

Here the little woman laughed outright. A lover! She could have honestly answered, "Yes," if
the handsome sailor had asked her if she had had several score. A lover, indeed!

"Ah! well, suppose you only had one, when you were a poor girl, and he left you, what then?"

"Oh, I'd kill him first, and cry myself dead afterwards."

"Well, my sweetheart has gone from me."

"What! what!--given you up for any one?"

"Yes, and--and--I don't think he's my master,--unless it's in dollars."

"Ah!--And who saved you from the shark?"

"A young French officer,--bless him! He harpooned my sealy friend, and found a friend for life,--though
it a'n't much a poor sailor-fellow can do for an officer. And, though we're at war with the
French, I'd be hanged sooner than fire at his ship."

Here Bertha, assisted by Jodoque, set the big jug down upon the table with a bang. And here,
too, something fell down in a neighboring room,--precisely as though a person, journeying in
a dark chamber, had upset a heavy wooden chair. The noise sent Doome right into the sailor's
arms, and also sent Jodoque right behind Bertha, who turned pale.

"There's some one in the room," said Jodoque.

"No, no!" said Bertha--"'tis poor aunt's room; no one goes there. It's only the rats,--that's
all,--only the rats."

For a stranger, the sailor showed a great deal of curiosity; for he turned very red, and said,
"Suppose you look and see."

"Oh, no, no! Never mind. 'Tis only rats. No one ever goes into that room. My dear, dear guardian
died in that room."

"Yes, Mistress," said the sailor, "but rats don't throw down chairs and tables."

"No, surely no!" said Jodoque.

"And if the house were mine," said the sailor, suiting the action to the word, "why, I'd go
up to the door like this,--and I'd put my hand on the latch, and click it should go,--and--"

Bertha ran up to the door too, laid her hand upon the sailor's arm, and drew him away, as he
quite willingly let her. Indeed, he trembled and looked pleadingly at her, as she touched him;
and he murmured to himself, "Six years make a good deal of change."

"You, a guest, have no right to touch that door."

"If I were your husband, I should have."

