In this e-book a carat character (^) indicates that the
      following character(s) is (are) a superscript.

SIR JAMES FITZJAMES STEPHEN

London. Published by Smith Elder & C^o. 15 Waterloo Place.

THE LIFE OF SIR JAMES FITZJAMES STEPHEN, BART., K.C.S.I.

A Judge of the High Court of Justice

by his brother

LESLIE STEPHEN

With Two Portraits

London Smith, Elder, & Co., 15 Waterloo Place 1895

[All rights reserved]

PREFACE

In writing the following pages I have felt very strongly one disqualification for my task.
The life of my brother, Sir J. F. STEPHEN, was chiefly devoted to work which requires some
legal knowledge for its full appreciation. I am no lawyer; and I should have considered this
fact to be a sufficient reason for silence, had it been essential to give any adequate estimate
of the labours in question. My purpose, however, is a different one. I have wished to describe
the man rather than to give any history of what he did. What I have said of the value of his
performances must be taken as mainly a judgment at second hand. But in writing of the man himself
I have advantages which, from the nature of the case, are not shared by others. For more than
sixty years he was my elder brother; and a brother in whose character and fortunes I took the
strongest interest from the earliest period at which I was capable of reflection or observation.
I think that brothers have generally certain analogies of temperament, intellectual and moral,
which enable them, however widely they may differ in many respects, to place themselves at
each other's point of view, and to be so far capable of that sympathetic appreciation which
is essential to satisfactory biography. I believe that this is true of my brother and myself.
Moreover, as we were brought up under the same roof, I have an intimate knowledge--now, alas!
almost peculiar to myself--of the little home circle whose characteristics had a profound influence
upon his development. I have thought it desirable to give a fuller account of those characteristics,
and of their origin in previous circumstances, than can well be given by any one but myself.
This is partly because I recognise the importance of the influence exerted upon him; and partly,
I will admit, for another reason. My brother took a great interest, and, I may add, an interest
not unmixed with pride, in our little family history. I confess that I share his feelings,
and think, at any rate, that two or three of the persons of whom I have spoken deserve a fuller
notice than has as yet been made public. What I have said may, I hope, serve as a small contribution
to the history of one of the rivulets which helped to compose the great current of national
life in the earlier part of this century.

I could not have attempted to write the life of my brother without the approval and the help
of my sister-in-law, Lady Stephen. She has provided me with materials essential to the narrative,
and has kindly read what I have written. I am, of course, entirely responsible for everything
that is here said; and I feel the responsibility all the more because I have had the advantage
of her suggestions throughout. I have also to thank my brother's children, who have been in
various ways very helpful. My nephews, in particular, have helped me in regard to various legal
matters. To my sister, Miss Stephen, I owe a debt of gratitude which--for reasons which she
will understand--I shall not attempt to discharge by any full acknowledgment.

I have especially to thank Sir H. S. Cunningham and Lady Egerton, Lady Stephen's brother and
sister, for permitting me to read my brother's letters to them, and for various suggestions.
Some other correspondence has been placed in my hands, and especially two important collections.
Lady Grant Duff has been good enough to show me a number of letters written to her, and Lady
Lytton has communicated letters written to the late Lord Lytton. I have spoken of these letters
in the text, and have in the last chapter given my reasons for confining my use of them to
occasional extracts. They have been of material service.

I have acknowledged help received from other persons at the points where it has been turned
to account. I will, however, offer my best thanks to them in this place, and assure them of
my sincere gratitude. Mr. Arthur Coleridge, the Rev. Dr. Kitchin, dean of Durham, the Rev.
H. W. Watson, rector of Berkeswell, Coventry, the Rev. J. Llewelyn Davies, vicar of Kirkby
Lonsdale, Prof. Sidgwick and Mr. Montagu S. D. Butler, of Pembroke College, Cambridge, have
given me information in regard to early years. Mr. Franklin Lushington, Mr. Justice Wills,
Lord Field, Mr. Justice Vaughan Williams, Sir Francis Jeune, Sir Theodore Martin, the Right
Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Mr. H. F. Dickens, and the late Captain Parker Snow have given me
information of various kinds as to the legal career. Sir John Strachey, Sir Robert Egerton,
and Sir H. S. Cunningham have given me information as to the Indian career. Mr. George Murray
Smith, Mr. James Knowles, Mr. Frederick Greenwood, and Mr. Longman have given me information
as to various literary matters. I have also to thank Mrs. Charles Simpson, Mr. F. W. Gibbs,
Mrs. Russell Gurney, Mr. Horace Smith, Sir F. Pollock, Prof. Maitland, Mr. Voysey, and Mr.
A. H. Millar, of Dundee, for help on various points.

                                           LESLIE STEPHEN.

   1 MAY, 1895.

CONTENTS

   CHAPTER I

   FAMILY HISTORY

                                                              PAGE
       I. JAMES STEPHEN, WRITER ON IMPRISONMENT FOR DEBT         1
      II. JAMES STEPHEN, MASTER IN CHANCERY                      8
     III. MASTER STEPHEN'S CHILDREN                             25
      IV. THE VENNS                                             33
       V. JAMES STEPHEN, COLONIAL UNDER-SECRETARY               41

   CHAPTER II

   EARLY LIFE

       I. CHILDHOOD                                             66
      II. ETON                                                  77
     III. KING'S COLLEGE                                        86
      IV. CAMBRIDGE                                             91
       V. READING FOR THE BAR                                  114

   CHAPTER III

   THE BAR AND JOURNALISM

       I. INTRODUCTORY                                         131
      II. FIRST YEARS AT THE BAR                               136
     III. THE 'SATURDAY REVIEW'                                148
      IV. EDUCATION COMMISSION AND RECORDERSHIP                165
       V. PROGRESS AT THE BAR                                  173
      VI. 'ESSAYS BY A BARRISTER'                              177
     VII. DEFENCE OF DR. WILLIAMS                              184
    VIII. 'VIEW OF THE CRIMINAL LAW'                           203
      IX. THE 'PALL MALL GAZETTE'                              212
       X. GOVERNOR EYRE                                        227
      XI. INDIAN APPOINTMENT                                   231

   CHAPTER IV

   INDIA

       I. PERSONAL HISTORY                                     237
      II. OFFICIAL WORK IN INDIA                               246
     III. INDIAN IMPRESSIONS                                   282
      IV. LAST MONTHS IN INDIA                                 291

   CHAPTER V

   LAST YEARS AT THE BAR

       I. FIRST OCCUPATIONS IN ENGLAND                         298
      II. 'LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY'                      306
     III. DUNDEE ELECTION                                      340
      IV. CODIFICATION IN ENGLAND                              351
       V. THE METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY                             358
      VI. THE CRIMINAL CODE                                    375
     VII. ECCLESIASTICAL CASES                                 381
    VIII. CORRESPONDENCE WITH LORD LYTTON                      386
      IX. APPOINTMENT TO A JUDGESHIP                           401
          NOTE ON RESIDENCE IN IRELAND                         405

   CHAPTER VI

   JUDICIAL CAREER

       I. HISTORY OF CRIMINAL LAW                              410
      II. 'NUNCOMAR AND IMPEY'                                 428
     III. JUDICIAL CHARACTERISTICS                             437
      IV. MISCELLANEOUS OCCUPATIONS                            450
       V. JAMES KENNETH STEPHEN                                468
      VI. CONCLUSION                                           477

   BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE                                        483

   INDEX                                                       487

       *       *       *       *       *

   ILLUSTRATIONS

   PORTRAIT FROM A DRAWING BY G. F. WATTS, R.A., 1863 Frontispiece

       "     "  PHOTOGRAPH BY BASSANO, 1886         to face p. 410

LIFE

OF

SIR JAMES FITZJAMES STEPHEN

CHAPTER I

FAMILY HISTORY

I. JAMES STEPHEN, WRITER ON IMPRISONMENT FOR DEBT

During the first half of the eighteenth century a James Stephen, the first of the family of
whom I have any knowledge, was tenant of a small farm in Aberdeenshire, on the borders of Buchan.[1]
He was also engaged in trade, and, though it is stated that smuggler would be too harsh a name
to apply to him, he had no insuperable objection to dealing in contraband articles. He was
considered to belong to the respectable class, and gave his sons a good education. He had nine
children by his wife, Mary Brown. Seven of these were sons, and were said to be the finest
young men in the country. Alexander, the eldest, was in business at Glasgow; he died when nearly
seventy, after falling into distress. William, the second son, studied medicine, and ultimately
settled at St. Christopher's, in the West Indies, where he was both a physician and a planter.
He probably began life as a 'surgeon to a Guineaman,' and he afterwards made money by buying
'refuse' (that is, sickly) negroes from slave ships, and, after curing them of their diseases,
selling them at an advanced price. He engaged in various speculations, and had made money when
he died in 1781, in his fiftieth year. His career, as will be seen, was of great importance
to his relations. The other sons all took to trade, but all died before William. The two sisters,
Mrs. Nuccoll and Mrs. Calder, married respectably, and lived to a great age. They were able
to be of some service to nephews and nieces.

My story is chiefly concerned with the third son, James, born about 1733. After studying law
for a short time at Aberdeen, he was sent abroad, when eighteen years old, to Holland, and
afterwards to France, with a view to some mercantile business. He was six feet three inches
in height, and a man of great muscular power. Family traditions tell of his being attacked
by two footpads, and knocking their heads together till they cried for mercy. Another legend
asserts that when a friend offered him a pony to carry him home after dinner, he made and won
a bet that he would carry the pony. In the year 1752 this young giant was sailing as supercargo
of a ship bound from Bordeaux to Scotland, with wine destined, no doubt, to replenish the 'blessed
bear of Bradwardine,' and its like. The ship had neared the race of Portland, when a storm
arose, and she was driven upon the cliffs of Purbeck Island. James Stephen, with four of the
crew, escaped to the rocks, the rest being drowned. Stephen roped his companions to himself,
and scaled the rocks in the dark, as Lovel, in the 'Antiquary,' leads the Wardours and Edie
Ochiltree up the crags of the Halket Head. Next day, the outcasts were hospitably received
by Mr. Milner, Collector of Customs at Poole. Stephen had to remain for some time on the spot
to look after the salvage of the cargo. The drowned captain had left some valuable papers in
a chest. He appeared in a dream to Stephen, and gave information which led to their recovery.
The news that his ghost was on the look-out had, it is said, a wholesome effect in deterring
wreckers from interference with the cargo.

Mr. Milner had six children, the youngest of whom, Sibella, was a lovely girl of fifteen. She
had a fine voice, and had received more than the usual education of the times. She fell in
love with the gallant young stranger, and before long they were privately married. This event
was hastened by their desire to anticipate the passage of the Marriage Act (June 1753), which
was expected to make the consent of parents necessary. The poor girl, however, yielded with
much compunction, and regarded the evils which afterwards befell her as providential punishments
for her neglect of filial duty.

James Stephen was a man of many prepossessing qualities, and soon became reconciled to his
wife's family. He was taken into partnership by one of his brothers-in-law, a William Milner,
then a merchant at Poole. Here his two eldest children were born, William on October 27, 1756,
and James on June 30, 1758. Unfortunately the firm became bankrupt; and the bankruptcy led
to a lifelong quarrel between James Stephen and his elder brother, William, who had taken some
share in the business. James then managed to start in business in London, and for some time
was fairly prosperous. Unluckily, while at Poole he had made a great impression upon Sir John
Webbe, a Roman Catholic baronet, who had large estates in the neighbourhood. Sir John had taken
up a grand scheme for developing his property at Hamworthy, close to Poole. Stephen, it seems,
had discovered that there were not only brick earth and pipeclay but mineral springs and coal
under the barren soil. A town was to be built; a trade started with London; Sir John's timber
was to be turned into ships; a colliery was to be opened--and, in short, a second Bristol was
to arise in Dorsetshire. Sir John was to supply the funds, and Stephen's energy and ability
marked him out as the heaven-sent manager. Stephen accepted the proposals, gave up his London
business, and set to work with energy. Coal was found, it is said, 'though of too sulphureous
a kind for use;' but deeper diggings would, no doubt, lay bare a superior seam. After a year
or two, however, affairs began to look black; Sir John Webbe became cool and then fell out
with his manager; and the result was that, about 1769, James Stephen found himself confined
for debt in the King's Bench prison.[2]

Stephen, however, was not a man to submit without knowing the reason why. He rubbed up his
old legal knowledge, looked into the law-books, and discovered that imprisonment for debt was
contrary to Magna Charta. This doctrine soon made converts in the King's Bench. Three of his
fellow prisoners enjoy such immortality as is conferred by admission to biographical dictionaries.
The best known was the crazy poet, Christopher Smart, famous for having leased himself for
ninety-nine years to a bookseller, and for the fine 'Song of David,' which Browning made the
text of one of his later poems.[3] Another was William Jackson, an Irish clergyman, afterwards
known as a journalist on the popular side, who was convicted of high treason at Dublin in 1795,
and poisoned himself in the dock.[4] A third was William Thompson, known as 'Blarney,' a painter,
who had married a rich wife in 1767, but had apparently spent her money by this time.[5] Mrs.
Stephen condescended to enliven the little society by her musical talents. The prisoners in
general welcomed Stephen as a champion of liberty. A writ of 'Habeas Corpus' was obtained,
and Stephen argued his case before Lord Mansfield. The great lawyer was naturally less amenable
to reason than the prisoners. He was, however, impressed, it is reported, by the manliness
and energy of the applicant. 'It is a great pity,' he said, 'but the prisoner must be remanded.'
James Stephen's son, James, a boy of twelve, was by his side in court, and a bystander slipped
five shillings into his hand; but the father had to go back to his prison. He stuck to his
point obstinately. He published a pamphlet, setting forth his case. He wrote letters to the
'Public Advertiser,' to which Junius was then contributing. He again appealed to the courts,
and finally called a meeting of his fellow prisoners. They resolved to break out in a body,
and march to Westminster, to remonstrate with the judges. Stephen seized a turnkey, and took
the keys by force; but, finding his followers unruly, was wise enough to submit. He was sent
with three others to the 'New Jail.' The prisoners in the King's Bench hereupon rose, and attacked
the wall with a pickaxe. Soldiers were called in, and the riot finally suppressed.[6]

Stephen, in spite of these proceedings, was treated with great humanity at the 'New Jail;'
and apparently without much severity at the King's Bench to which he presently returned. 'Blarney'
Thompson painted his portrait, and I possess an engraving with the inscription, 'Veritas à
quocunque dicitur à Deo est.' Not long ago a copy of this engraving was given to my brother
by a friend who had seen it in a shop and recognised the very strong family likeness between
James and his great-grandson, James Fitzjames.

Stephen soon got out of prison. Sir John Webbe, at whose suit he had been arrested, agreed
to pay the debts, gave him 500l. and settled an annuity of 40l. upon Mrs. Stephen. I hope that
I may infer that Sir John felt that his debtor had something to say for himself. The question
of making a living, however, became pressing. Stephen, on the strength, I presume, of his legal
studies, resolved to be called to the bar. He entered at the Middle Temple; but had scarcely
begun to keep his terms when the authorities interfered. His letters to the papers and attacks
upon Lord Mansfield at the very time when Junius was at the height of his power (I do not,
I may observe, claim the authorship of the letters for James Stephen) had, no doubt, made him
a suspicious character. The benchers accordingly informed him that they would not call him
to the bar, giving as their reasons his 'want of birth, want of fortune, want of education,
and want of temper.' His friend, William Jackson, hereupon printed a letter,[7] addressing
the benchers in the true Junius style. He contrasts Stephen with his persecutors. Stephen might
not know Law Latin, but he had read Bracton and Glanville and Coke; he knew French and had
read Latin at Aberdeen; he had been educated, it was true, in some 'paltry principles of honour
and honesty,' while the benchers had learnt 'more useful lessons;' he had written letters to
Wilkes copied in all the papers; he had read Locke, could 'harangue for hours upon social feelings,
friendship, and benevolence,' and would trudge miles to save a family from prison, not considering
that he was thereby robbing the lawyers and jailors of their fees. The benchers, it seems,
had sworn the peace against him before Sir John Fielding, because he had made a friendly call
upon a member of the society. They mistook a card of introduction for a challenge. Jackson
signs himself 'with the profoundest sense of your Masterships' demerits, your Masterships'
inflexible detestor,' and probably did not improve his friend's position.

Stephen, thus rejected, entered the legal profession by a back door, which, if not reputable,
was not absolutely closed. He entered into a kind of partnership with a solicitor who was the
ostensible manager of the business, and could be put forward when personal appearance was necessary.
Stephen's imposing looks and manner, his acquaintance with commercial circles and his reputation
as a victim of Mansfield brought him a certain amount of business. He had, however, to undertake
such business as did not commend itself to the reputable members of the profession. He had
a hard struggle and was playing a losing game. He became allied with unfortunate adventurers
prosecuting obscure claims against Government, which, even when admitted, did not repay the
costs incurred. He had to frequent taverns in order to meet his clients, and took to smoking
tobacco and possibly to other indulgences. His wife, who was a delicate woman, was put to grievous
shifts to make both ends meet. Her health broke down, and she died at last on March 21, 1775.
She had brought him six children, of whom the eldest was nineteen and the youngest still under
four.[8] I shall speak directly of the two eldest. Two daughters were taken in charge by their
grandmother Stephen, who was still living in Scotland; while the two little ones remained with
their father at Stoke Newington, where he now lived, ran about the common and learnt to ride
pigs. James Stephen himself lived four years more, sinking into deeper difficulties; an execution
was threatened during his last illness, and he died in 1779, leaving hardly enough to pay his
debts.[9]

II. JAMES STEPHEN, MASTER IN CHANCERY

I have now to tell the story of the second son, James, my grandfather, born in 1758. His education,
as may be anticipated, was desultory. When four or five years old, he was sent to a school
at Vauxhall kept by Peter Annet (1693-1769), the last of the Deists who (in 1763) was imprisoned
for a blasphemous libel. The elder Stephen was then living at Lambeth, and the choice of a
schoolmaster seems to show that his opinions were of the free-thinking type. About 1767 the
boy was sent to a school near his mother's family at Poole. There at the early age of ten he
fell desperately in love with his schoolmaster's daughter, aged fifteen, and was hurt by the
levity with which his passion was treated. At the same period he became a poet, composed hymns,
and wrote an epigram upon one of his father's creditors. He accompanied his father to the King's
Bench Prison, and there Christopher Smart and others petted the lad, lent him books, and encouraged
his literary aspirations. During his father's later troubles he managed to keep up a subscription
to a circulating library and would read two volumes a day, chiefly plays and novels, and, above
all, the 'Grand Cyrus' and other old-fashioned romances. His mother tried to direct him to
such solid works as Rapin's History, and he learnt her favourite Young's 'Night Thoughts' by
heart. He had no schooling after leaving Poole, until, about 1772, he was sent to a day school
on Kennington Green, kept by a cheesemonger who had failed in business, and whose sole qualifications
for teaching were a clerical wig and a black coat. Here occurred events which profoundly affected
his career. A schoolfellow named Thomas Stent, son of a stockbroker, became his warm friend.
The parent Stents forbade the intimacy with the son of a broken merchant. Young Stephen boldly
called upon Mrs. Stent to protest against the sentence. She took a liking to the lad and invited
him to her house, where the precocious youth fell desperately in love with Anne Stent, his
schoolfellow's sister, who was four months his senior. The attachment was discovered and treated
with ridicule. The girl, however, returned the boy's affection and the passion ran its course
after the most approved fashion. The hero was forbidden the house and the heroine confined
to her room. There were clandestine meetings and clandestine correspondence, in which the schoolboy
found the advantage of his studies in the 'Grand Cyrus.' At last in 1773 the affair was broken
off for the time by the despatch of James Stephen to Winchester, where one of his Milner uncles
boarded him and sent him to the school. His want of preparation prevented him from profiting
by the teaching, and after the first half year his parents' inability to pay the bills prevented
him from returning. He wrote again to Miss Stent, but received a cold reply, signifying her
obedience to parental authority. For the next two years he learnt nothing except from his studies
at the circulating library. His mother, sinking under her burthens, did what she could to direct
him, and he repaid her care by the tenderest devotion. Upon her death he thought for a moment
of suicide. Things were looking black indeed. His elder brother William now took a bold step.
His uncle and godfather, William, who had quarrelled with the family after the early bankruptcy
at Poole, was understood to be prospering at St. Christopher's. The younger William, who had
been employed in a mercantile office, managed to beg a passage to the West Indies, and threw
himself upon the uncle's protection. The uncle received the boy kindly, promised to take him
into partnership as a physician, and sent him back by the same ship in order to obtain the
necessary medical training at Aberdeen. He returned just in time. James had been thinking of
volunteering under Washington, and had then accepted the offer of a 'book-keeper's' place in
Jamaica. He afterwards discovered that a 'book-keeper' was an intermediate between the black
slave-driver and the white overseer, and was doomed to a miserable and degrading life. It was
now settled that he should go with William to Aberdeen, and study law. He entered at Lincoln's
Inn, and looked forward to practising at St. Christopher's. The uncle refused to extend his
liberality to James; but a student could live at Aberdeen for 20l. a year; the funds were somehow
scraped together; and for the next two sessions, 1775-76 and 1776-77, James was a student at
the Marischal College. The town, he says, was filthy and unwholesome; but his Scottish cousins
were cordial and hospitable, the professors were kindly; and though his ignorance of Latin
and inability even to read the Greek alphabet were hindrances, he picked up a little mathematics
and heard the lectures of the great Dr. Beattie. His powers of talk and his knowledge of London
life atoned for his imperfect education. He saw something of Aberdeen society; admired and
danced with the daughters of baillies, and was even tempted at times to forget his passion
for Anne Stent, who had sent a chilling answer to a final appeal.

In 1777, Stephen returned to London, and had to take part of his father's dwindling business.
He thus picked up some scraps of professional knowledge. On the father's death, kind Scottish
relations took charge of the two youngest children, and his brother William soon sailed for
St. Christopher's. James was left alone. He appealed to the uncle, George Milner, with whom
he had lived at Winchester, and who, having married a rich wife, was living in comfort at Comberton,
near Cambridge. The uncle promised to give him 50l. a year to enable him to finish his legal
education. He took lodgings on the strength of this promise, and resolved to struggle on, though
still giving an occasional thought to Washington's army.

