
To separate these two men, to reduce Boswell to the status of a mere "reporter" or "authority,"
to repeat his stories and records of conversation in any language but his own, to interlard
them with the comments and reflections of a superior wisdom, seems to us a sort of moral offence
as well as an impertinence. Mr. Leslie Stephen is, without doubt, a very skilful workman, and
has brought to his task all the knowledge, taste and judgment, if not the perfectly sympathetic
tone, which the most exacting reader could demand. It may, too, be urged on his behalf that
he has written for those who have not the leisure to make themselves acquainted with the work
which he has condensed. We can only reply that his talents would have found ample scope in
a more fitting field, and that people who cannot spare the time to read Boswell can well afford
to be ignorant of Johnson.

Books Received. By H.G. Bonavia Hunt. New Edition. Revised. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.

Savéli's Expiation: A Russian Story. Translated from the French of Henri Gréville. By Mary
N. Sherwood. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

International Exhibitions. Paris--Philadelphia--Vienna. By Charles Gindriez and Prof. James
Morgan Hart. New York: A.S. Barnes & Co.

Geographical Surveying: Its Uses, Methods and Results. By Frank de Yeaux Carpenter, C.E. New
York: D. Van Nostrand.

Goethe's Faust. Edited by James Morgan Hart. German Classics for American Students. New York:
G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Catholicity in its Relationship to Protestantism and Romanism. By Rev. F.C. Ewer, S.T.D. New
York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

The Former and Present Number of our Indians. By Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel Garrick Mallery.
Philadelphia: Collins.

Gaddings with a Primitive People. By W.A. Baillie-Grohman. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New York:
Henry Holt & Co.

How to be Plump; or, Talks of Physiological Feeding. By T.C. Duncan, M.D. Chicago: Duncan Brothers.

Nobody's Business. By Jeannette Hadermann. (Satchel Series.) New York: The Authors' Publishing Co.

Railroads: Their Origin and Problems. By Charles Francis Adams, Jr. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Annual Report of the Chief Signal-Officer for the Year 1877. Washington: Government Printing-office.

How to Parse. By Rev. Edwin A. Abbott, D.D. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Lines in the Sand. By Richard E. Day. Syracuse: John T. Roberts.

Roxy. By Edward Eggleston. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I use the term "soldier" for the sake of definiteness. The soldier approaches the queen
in size, and in many of the specimens the head is larger than that of the queen.

[2] Hymenoptera of the British Museum: Formicidæa, p. 170.

[3] A lofty bed is the Caucasian mountaineer's highest conception of luxury.

[4] Frere's Old Deccan Days, p. 227.

[5] Grimm's German Popular Tales, First Series, No. XX.

[6] Mohammedan fasts generally end with the first sight of the new moon.