No one in the convention answered the last question put by Squire Turner. But regardless of
such an economic condition, not a single piece of remedial legislation was passed and the members
of the Constitutional Convention added a provision to the Bill of Rights which rooted the slavery
system firmer than ever. That most admirable of all southern characters, and at the same time
the most difficult to understand, the Kentucky master, took little heed of a question of dollars
and cents when it interfered with his moral and humanitarian sentiments. He had inherited,
in most cases, the slaves that were his. He knew well enough that the system did not pay but
supposing that he should turn his slaves loose, what would become of them? What could they
do for a living? The experience of later years proved that his apparently obstinate temperament
was mixed with a good deal of wisdom, for once the slaves were set free their status was not
to any great extent ameliorated if they went abroad from the plantation where they had lived
from childhood.

There was a certain amount of profit in the labor of able-bodied slaves but they only represented
a fraction of the Negroes whom the master was called upon to support. The law compelled the
owner to maintain his old and helpless slaves and this represented the spirit of the large
majority of the slaveholders. Those were rare cases indeed when an owner was hailed into court
for failing to provide for an infirm member of his slave household. The true Kentuckian never
begrudged the expense that such support incurred. One of the ablest lawyers of the State, Benjamin
Hardin, made the statement that "if it were not for supporting my slaves, I would never go
near a courthouse."[282]

Rev. Stuart Robinson, speaking before the Kentucky Colonization Society in 1849, gave another
viewpoint of the economic value of the slave. "The increase of slaves in Kentucky," said he,
"has hardly reached three thousand annually for eighteen years past. The increase since 1840
has been 27,653--the increase for the year just closed 2,921. In twenty-six counties, embracing
one fourth of the slave population--some of them the largest slave-holding counties--there
has been an actual decrease in the last year of 881 slaves. In twelve other counties the increase
has been only twenty-three. There are ten counties in the State, which contain one third of
all the slave population of Kentucky; in these ten counties, the increase of slaves for five
years past has been 2,728--an increase of less than one per cent per annum. Nor is this slow
increase of slavery to be attributed to any stagnation or decline of public prosperity, for
in the meantime the state has been growing in population and wealth as heretofore. During these
five years the taxable property of the Commonwealth has increased in value more than seventy-six
millions. Now this decrease of slaves while the other property of the commonwealth is increasing
must arise from one of three causes--and in either case the inference is the same as to the
fate of slavery in Kentucky. (1) Is it because the climate is unhealthy to the African? If
so then African labor cannot continue. (2) Is it owing to emigration? Then something is wrong
in the system of labor, that causes the emigration of our people--for no finer soil--no more
desirable residence can be found in the world. (3) Or is it owing to the domestic slave trade?
Then for some reason slave labor is less profitable here than elsewhere, and must soon be given
up."[283]

These figures quoted by the speaker on the slave population for year by year are available
in the auditor's tax books for the years 1840 to 1859:[284]

     1840      164,817
     1841      168,853
     1842      171,035
     1843      176,107
     1844      178,837
     1845      182,742
     1846      185,582
     1847      189,549
     1848      192,470
     1849      195,110
     1850      196,847
     1851      196,336
     1852      200,867
     1853      200,015
     1854      200,181
     1855      202,790
     1856      201,160
     1857      201,590
     1858      207,559
     1859      208,625

The very small growth shown here would barely account for the natural increase among the slaves
by virtue of the high birth rate. The mortality rates were about the same for slaves as for
whites. The relative decline was undoubtedly due to the rising prices for slaves which were
sent to the South and the consequent decreasing value of a slave's labor to the Kentuckian.
He knew beyond a doubt that the time would eventually come when he would have to part with
his slave and that portion of the holders who were not averse to selling their chattels did
so during this period.

FOOTNOTES:

[234] Hening's Statutes, Vol. X, p. 50.

[235] Hening's Statutes, Vol. XI, p. 309; Treat, P. J., National Land System, p. 235.

[236] Ibid., Vol. X, pp. 35-45.

[237] Winterbotham, An Historical Geographical Commercial and Topographical View of the United
States, Vol. 3, pp. 156-157.

[238] Kentucky Land Grants, Book 13, p. 59.

[239] Ibid., Book 8, p. 228.

[240] Shaler's Autobiography, p. 33.

[241] Michaux (Thwaite's Reprint), Travels to the West of the Allegheny Mountains, Vol. 3, p. 237.

[242] Shaler, N. S., Kentucky, p. 196.

[243] Includes 182 Indians.

[244] Includes 33 Indians.

[245] Greeley, Horace, Writings, Speeches and Addresses of Cassius M. Clay, p. 177.

[246] Collected Documents, 1847, p. 581.

[247] De Bow's Statistical Review, p. 95.

[248] Adapted from De Bow's Statistical Review, pp. 67, 85, 99.

[249] Stowe, Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, p. 143.

[250] Louisville Weekly Journal, October 17, 1849.

[251] Shaler's Autobiography, p. 36.

[252] Louisville Public Advertiser, December 24, 1829.

[253] Lexington Observer and Kentucky Reporter, February 27, 1834.

[254] Louisville Weekly Journal, March 4, 1846.

[255] Louisville Weekly Journal, September 3, 1845.

[256] Lexington Observer and Kentucky Reporter, Jan. 28, 1835.

[257] Ibid., July 9, 1834.

[258] Lexington Observer and Kentucky Reporter, Jan. 7, 1835.

[259] Louisville Weekly Journal, August 6, 1845.

[260] Bairdstown Candid Review, June 20, 1809.

[261] Louisville Weekly Journal, May 2, 1849.

[262] Louisville Weekly Journal, September 26, 1849.

[263] Lexington Western Luminary, June 5, 1833.

[264] Blanchard and Rice, Debates on Slavery, p. 133.

[265] Louisville Weekly Journal, July 30, 1845.

[266] Ibid., July 19, 1848.

[267] Ibid., August 14, 1850.

[268] Ibid., August 2, 1848.

[269] St. Louis Daily Times, October 14, 1852.

[270] Louisville Daily Journal, November 23, 1848.

[271] Louisville Public Advertiser, November 2, 1825.

[272] Ibid., September 13, 1826.

[273] Louisville Daily Times, March 1, 1854.

[274] Slavery and Internal Slave Trade in the U. S., p. 12.

[275] Martin, Asa E., Anti-Slavery Movement in Kentucky, p. 89.

[276] Collins, History of Kentucky, Vol. 1, p. 74.

[277] Cynthiana News, January 10, 1858.

[278] Henderson Weekly Commercial, January 29, 1858.

[279] Georgetown Gazette, December 23, 1858.

[280] Weekly Free South (Newport), April 29, 1859.

[281] Debates of the Convention of 1849, p. 73.

[282] Little, L. P., Ben Hardin, his Times and Contemporaries, p. 544.

[283] Presbyterian Herald, April 12, 1849.

[284] Collected Documents, 1847, pp. 581-583; 1853, pp. 401-403; 1860, pp. 241-246.

CHAPTER III

THE LEGAL STATUS OF SLAVERY

Slavery in its more economic form naturally spread to the Kentucky district as the western
frontier of Virginia became settled. Of the 293,427 slaves which were held in the State of
Virginia in the year 1790, however, only 11,830 were in the district of Kentucky, which at
that time had a total population of 73,077. Few thought, however, of disputing the rights of
the institution in the newly created State. The final convention which met to form a constitution
was held at Danville, beginning on April 2, 1792, and in the course of its proceedings it was
apparent that there was no fundamental division among the delegates regarding any of the proposed
provisions with the exception of the one dealing with slavery. Virginia had stipulated in giving
permission for the formation of the new State that slavery as an established institution should
not be disturbed, and this policy had the support of a majority of the members of the constitutional
convention. George Nichols, a native of the Old Dominion, was the leader of the assembly and
had charge of most of the work which was done and naturally was most interested in carrying
out the wishes of his native State in the formation of the new document. The only serious opponent
was David Rice, a noted Presbyterian minister, but, having resigned on April 11, he was not
present at the time when the slavery issue came up for final settlement.

A separate vote was taken on Article IX, the slavery section, which
passed 26 to 19. And they shall have full power to pass such laws
     as may be necessary to oblige the owners of slaves to treat them
     with humanity, to provide for them necessary clothes and
     provisions, to abstain from all injuries to them extending to
     life or limb, and in case of their neglect or refusal to comply
     with the directions of such laws, to have such slave or slaves
     sold for the benefit of their owner or owners.[285]

In any discussion of the slavery question in Kentucky in its historical aspects this article
of the first constitution is fundamental. It is evident that even at that early day the difficulty
of the slavery problem was already in the minds of the people in spite of many other apparently
more pressing issues. The article itself remained practically intact throughout the existence
of slavery in the State. Were there ever in later years gathered within the confines of the
State any body of men who had a better grasp of the future? The single instance of the recommendation
that the legislature should pass laws permitting the emancipation of slaves only under the
provision that they should be guaranteed from becoming a public charge to the county shows
the comprehension of a difficulty that could not at such an early date have developed to any
great degree, but which in later decades was a formidable problem. We may well say with John
Mason Brown, however, that "the system of slavery thus contemplated was designed to be as mild,
as human, and as much protected from traffic evils as possible, but it was to be emphatically
perpetual, for no emancipation could be had without the assent of each particular owner of
each individual slave."[286]

The session of the State assembly which met in November, 1792, only attempted to carry out
the constitutional provision prohibiting commercial transactions with slaves. No person was
permitted to buy of, or sell to, any slave, any manner of thing whatsoever without a written
permit descriptive of the article under the penalty of four times the value of the thing bought
or sold. The jurisdiction of such cases was given to the county court, if they concerned values
of more than five pounds. The slave was to receive ten lashes, which by the standards of those
days was a meager punishment for any offense.[287] Whenever possible the slave was not brought
into consideration as an offender. The theory seems to have been that the slave was better
off when left alone. It was only when some unscrupulous outsider came in to use the slave either
as a victim or as an object of profit that it was necessary to draw the strings tighter on
the Negro, not because of any inherent tendency to crime so much as to keep the slave from
becoming unruly when in the power of a superior influence.

It was not until the session of 1798 that the legislature drew up the fundamental slave code
which was to carry out all the recommendations of the constitutional convention and which remained
the basis of all legal action throughout the entire period of slavery. Among the early acts
of the State had been the temporary adoption of the statutes of Virginia on the treatment of
slaves and slavery problems, which were then in force.[288] These remained as a slave code
for Kentucky until the enactment in 1798 of these new laws, which contained forty-three articles
and involved almost every question that could come up for legal consideration in connection
with the institution. The experience of six years as a separate State had served to show that
many existing provisions of the Virginia code were not readily adapted to the rapidly growing
State, and then too there was a decided tendency to ameliorate the condition of the slave as
much as possible. In Kentucky they were not then, at least, confronted with such a large mass
of slaves that they could not meet problems in a much easier manner than in the Old Dominion.

In the beginning, it was naturally found necessary to place some restrictions on the slave
and his movements. He was not allowed to leave his master's plantation without written permission
and if he did go away, any person could apprehend the offender and take him before a justice
of the peace, who was empowered to order the infliction of stripes at his discretion. Furthermore,
he was not to wander off to any other plantation without the written permission of his owner,
with the provision in this instance that he was not to be taken before a justice of the peace,
but before his owner, who was entitled to inflict ten lashes upon the offender. Should the
slave be found carrying any powder, shot, a gun, club, or any weapon he could be apprehended
by any free person and taken before a justice and a much severer penalty exacted in the form
of thirty-nine lashes, "well laid on, on the bare back."[289] It is clear that this law was
drawn up to keep the slave from becoming a public menace and not as a sign of absolute restriction
on the servant, for it was further provided in Section 6 that in case the slave lived in a
frontier community he could go to the local justice of the peace and secure a permit to keep
and use guns, powder, shot and other weapons for either offensive or defensive purposes. This
permission was to be indorsed by any free Negro, mulatto or Indian and did not necessarily
involve the approval of the owner of the slave.

It was declared unlawful for slaves to engage in riots, unlawful assemblies, in trespasses
or in seditious speech and, if so accused, they were to be taken before the local justice who
was to punish them at his discretion. But the Negroes themselves were not to be considered
as the only guilty ones. In order to prevent any such disorderly meetings no owner of slaves
was to be allowed to permit any slave not belonging to him to remain on his plantation for
more than four hours at any one time under a nominal penalty to such owner of $2; but, if he
allowed more than five such slaves to assemble on his property, he was to be fined more severely.
If such a group were brought together by the written permission of the owner and for business
reasons, however, there was involved no offense whatever.[290] It was realized that oftentimes
the chief leaders in the unlawful meetings of slaves were free Negroes and sympathetic whites.
Were any such to be found present they were to be arrested and if found guilty when tried before
a justice of the peace, should be fined 15 shillings, to be paid, not to the court, but to
the informer and if the money was not forthcoming the court was to have twenty lashes inflicted--no
matter whether the convicted be white or black. Inasmuch as the degree of punishment of the
slaves for being present at such a meeting was not specified it would seem that the legislature
meant that the free persons involved should be treated more severely than slaves by the court.

The law of 1792 regarding trading with slaves had not proved to be effective, for in many cases
the owner for a stipulated wage paid by the slave had permitted him to go at large and engage
in trade as if he were a free man. The legislature found that this encouraged the slaves to
commit thefts and engage in various evil practices and naturally censured the owner. A fine
of $50 was to be paid by the master for each offending slave and no punishment whatever was
to be given the latter. But should the servant go so far as to hire himself out, he would be
imprisoned by order of the court and, at the next session of the county court, he would be
sold. One fourth of the money thus received was to be applied to the county funds and 5 per
cent was to be given to the sheriff and the owner was to receive the remaining 70 per cent.
Here too the slave was not punished and his condition of servitude was not changed. It was
merely a change of owners. Again the offending owner was the victim and for his carelessness
he was deprived of 30 per cent of the money value of his slave.[291]

The leading Kentucky case bearing on slaves engaged in trade is that of Bryant vs. Sheely (5
Dana, 530). Five of the main points are worth mentioning here:

     1. To buy or receive any article from a slave, without the
     consent of his master, in writing, specifying the article, is a
     highly penal offense.

     2. A sale made by a slave, without such written consent, is void,
     and does not divest the master of his property; he may sue for,
     and recover it; or he may waive his right to the specific thing,
     affirm the sale, and recover the price or value, if it was not
     paid to the slave.

     3. A general permission to a slave to go at large and trade for
     himself as a free man, is contrary to public policy, and a
     violation of a penal statute. The owner or master of a slave
     could maintain no action for any claim acquired by a slave while
     acting under such illegal license.

     4. But a slave may be permitted by his master to buy or sell
     particular articles, and any form of consent or permission given
     by the master, or his assent after the fact, will give validity
     to the sale--though the purchaser may be liable to the penalty,
     if the consent be not in writing.

     5. A slave, being authorized by his master to sell any particular
     thing, becomes the agent of his master for that purpose; and from
     the authority to sell, an authority to transfer the property, and
     to fix and receive the price must be inferred; but the slave
     cannot exercise or receive an authority to maintain any action in
     relation to it; the right of action for the price belongs to the
     master, and if he sues, that fact itself is sufficient evidence
     that he authorized or approved and confirmed the sale.

Unlike the more southerly States, Kentucky did not leave the slave helpless in the courts.
If a slave were charged with a capital crime he was brought before the court of quarter sessions,
which was composed of the various county justices of the peace. They were to constitute a court
of oyer and terminer. But they alone were not to decide the fate of the Negro, for the sheriff
was required to empanel a jury of twelve men from among the bystanders, who were to constitute
the trial jury. When a slave was called upon to testify in such a case, the court, the witness
"not being a Christian," found it necessary to administer the following charge that he might
be under the greater obligation to declare the truth: "You are brought hither as a witness,
and by the direction of the law I am to tell you, before you give your evidence, that you must
tell the truth and nothing but the truth, and that if it be found hereafter that you tell a
lie, and give false testimony in this matter, you must, for so doing, receive thirty-nine lashes
on your bare back, well laid on, at the common whipping post."[292]

Section 22 of the law of 1798 provided that the master or owner of any slave might appear in
court at a trial of his servant and "make what just defense he can for such slave." The only
restriction was that such defense should not interfere with the form of the trial. Naturally
the liberally disposed slaveholders interpreted this to mean that they could employ counsel
to defend their Negroes and it remained a disputed question down to 1806, when the legislature
made the provisions more specific. By this new law it was provided that it was not only the
privilege but the duty of the owner of a slave who was being prosecuted to employ an attorney
to defend him. The owner neglecting to do so the court must assign counsel to defend the slave
and the costs thereby incurred were to be charged to the owner. The fee for defense was not
to exceed $200 and if not forthcoming the court was empowered to recover the amount in the
manner of any other debt of similar amount. It was plainly the intention of the legislature
to provide a just trial for any slave, for they even went so far as to enact that the lawyer
appointed by the court for the prisoner should "defend such slave as in cases of free persons
prosecuted for felony by the laws of this state."[293]

When the slave was convicted of an offense which was punishable by death but which was within
the benefit of clergy the capital penalty was not pronounced, but the offender was burnt in
the hand or inflicted with any other corporal penalty at the discretion of the court. Should
the criminal be sentenced to suffer death, thirty days were to elapse before the execution,
except where it was a case of conspiracy, insurrection or rebellion. When the court had decided
to sentence the slave to the death penalty a valuation of the Negro was made. This statement
was to be turned over to the State auditor of public accounts who was required to issue a warrant
on the treasury for the amount in favor of the owner of the convicted party. The owner on his
part was to turn over to the treasurer the certificate of the clerk of the court showing that
the slave had been condemned and the statement of the sheriff that the offender had been executed
or had died before execution.[294]

This matter of the payment to the owner of the value of the executed slave appears never to
have been questioned to any extent even by the abolitionists in the legislature until the session
of 1830 when a bill was introduced for the repeal of the law. The bill was lost but in the
course of the debate it was stated that while Kentucky contained over 160,000 slaves only about
one fifth of the tax-paying whites were slaveholders and that $68,000 had already been paid
out of the State treasury as indemnity for slaves executed. After the defeat of this bill there
was offered a substitute which proposed that a tax of one fourth of one per cent should be
levied upon the value of all slaves in the State for the creation of a fund out of which to
make such disbursements, but this was likewise lost.[295]

Until 1811 there were no special enactments on slave crimes and their punishments. The court
had, therefore, more or less range in the exactment of penalties but the legislature of 1811
passed during the first fortnight of its session a specific law governing slave crimes. Only
four offenses were to be regarded as punishable by death: (1) conspiracy and rebellion, (2)
administering poison with intent to kill, (3) voluntary manslaughter and (4) rape of a white
woman. If any slaves were to be found guilty of consulting or advising the murder of any one,
every such consultation was to constitute an offense and be punishable by any number of stripes
not exceeding one hundred.[296]

As time went on the list of capital crimes was increased as a natural result of the growth
of the slave population and their growing state of unrest after the incoming of the anti-slavery
propaganda. By the close of the slavery era in Kentucky there were eleven offenses for which
slaves should suffer death: (1) murder, (2) arson, (3) rape of a white woman, (4) robbery,
(5) burglary, (6) conspiracy, (7) administering poison with intent to kill, (8) manslaughter,
(9) attempting to commit rape on a white woman, (10) shooting at a white person with intent
to kill, and (11) wounding a white person with intent to kill. It will readily be seen that
from a practical standpoint these eleven offenses can be narrowed down to eight. The severity
of the slave code can be shown by comparison of the capital crimes for white persons at the
same time. These were four in number, (1) murder, (2) carnal abuse of a female under ten years
of age, (3) wilful burning of the penitentiary and (4) being an accessory to the fact.[297]

Virginia had early enacted that slaves should be considered as real estate in the settlement
of inheritances. But the growing tendency to look upon the slaves in all things else as personal
chattels led to such legal and popular confusion that the Virginia assembly often observed
that they were "real estate in some respects, personal in others, and both in others." Regardless
of such legal complexity it was not until 1793 that it was enacted that "all negro and mulatto
slaves in all courts of judicature shall be held and adjudged to be personal estate."

In drawing up the slave code of 1798 Kentucky disregarded the legal experience of Virginia
and her more recent remedial legislation and enacted that "all negro, mulatto or Indian slaves,
in all courts of judicature and other places within this commonwealth, shall be held, taken
and adjudged to be real estate, and shall descend to the heirs and widows of persons departing
this life, as lands are directed to descend." It was further provided, however, that "all such
slaves shall be liable to the payment of debts, and may be taken by execution for that end,
as other chattels, or personal estate may be."[298]

Such a law coupled with the legal precedents of Virginia served to intensify the mixed property
conception of the slave. The confusion, however, was purely legal, for slaves were held in
all other respects as personalty; but in cases of inheritance and the probation of wills the
Kentucky Court of Appeals was often called upon to define clearly the legal status of the Negro
in bondage. The first important decision was handed down in 1824 in the case of Chinn and wife
vs. Respass, in which it was pointed out that while slaves were by law made real estate for
the purpose of descent and dower, yet they had in law many of the attributes of personal estate.
They would pass by a nuncupative will, and lands would not; they could be limited, in a grant
or devise no otherwise than personal chattels; and personal actions might be brought to recover
the possession of them. Furthermore "they were in their nature personal estate, being moveable
property, and as such might attend the person of the proprietor wherever he went; and in practice
they were so considered by the people in general."[299]

Conversely, the court was often called upon to interpret the phrase "personal estate" in wills
and contracts, where it appeared without any other restrictive expression or provision, and
it consistently held that the term should be construed as embracing slaves.[300] Gradually
the personal property conception began to secure even legal precedence over that of real estate
when the two interpretations came into close conflict. This was accomplished by placing more
stress on the proviso in the original slave code, which placed slaves in the hands of the administrator
as assets for the payment of debts. This led to increasing power for the executor who could
even defeat the title of the heirs, though the property may have been specifically devised.
Hence it was not surprising that in the Revised Statutes of 1852 it was provided that slaves
should thereafter be deemed and held as personal estate. Coming after all doubt of the personalty
of slaves had been removed by the decisions of the highest tribunal in the State, this law
meant little more than the repeal of the old statute making slaves real estate.

The wonder is that Kentucky should have chosen to hold to an antiquated legal conception for
fifty years after Virginia had proved its fallacy by her experience in the eighteenth century.
While it did little harm, it had few advantages. The existence of the theory was chiefly noticeable
in the frequent legal battles over technicalities in the settlement of estates. In the popular
mind slaves were always considered personal property, and the spirit of the slave code itself
embodied that conception as regarded all things save the question of inheritance.

With respect to the liberty of the slaves the code of 1798 clearly shows that the existing
type of slavery was purely rural, for the restrictions on slaves concerned only the plantation
Negroes. Strictly understood, the slave was not to leave the farm of his owner without a pass
from his master, the main purpose being to keep the Negroes from congregating on any one farm.
Later when emissaries from the North became unusually active the rights and privileges of the
slaves were further restricted. This change was due to the current belief that these foreign
individuals were bent upon stirring up strife among the slaves and inciting them to insurrection.
Once started such a scheme would have resulted in anarchy especially in the towns. The real
curbing provisions were not started until along in the thirties when these outside forces had
begun to make their appearance in the urban communities.[301]

In some parts of the State were instituted mounted patrols, who went about at night and watched
the movement of slaves. They were to apprehend any servant who was caught away from his home
plantation without a pass from his master.[302] Such an institution was based on good Negro
psychology, for his fear of the spirits of night was well known. Citizens of that time have
told us many tales of the dread which the slave had of meeting these night raiders whom they
termed "patter-rollers" and how they came to sing of them in true Negro fashion:

    Over the fence and through the paster,
    Run, nigger, run, oh, run a little faster,
      Run, nigger, run,
    The patter-roller ketch you.

Such a system of county patrols did not prove to be sufficient as the slave population grew
and the towns became larger and more attractive to the country slave. The legislature of 1834
in drawing up a law concerning tavern keepers had this problem clearly in mind when they provided
that no person should sell, give or loan any spirituous liquors to slaves, other than his own,
under a penalty of $10 for each offense. Furthermore, if the offender was a licensed liquor
dealer, he should have his license taken away from him for the term of two years.[303] That
even this measure did not prove effective enough to curb the evil of Negroes congregating in
the towns is shown by the further provision passed March 6, 1850, to increase the fine to $50
for each offense.[304] A still further extension was that of February 27, 1856, which provided
that free Negroes were to be included in the restriction unless they presented a certificate
from "some white person of respectable character." No slaves or free Negroes were to be employed
in the selling or distribution of liquor nor were they to be allowed to visit or even loaf
around any place where intoxicants were kept for sale.[305] The session of 1858 made the force
of the law more explicit by defining very clearly the jurisdiction in such cases.[306]

Not only the State authorities but the towns as well were active in
the measures adopted to meet the growing problem. Provided, said Town
     Sergeant, or assistant, can enter the same peaceably and without
     force.[307]

This town regulation offers perhaps another proof of the oft-repeated statement regarding the
slave laws of Kentucky that while they appeared severe on the statute books they were always
mild in the enforcement. The regulation of the movement of slaves in the towns was always subject
to the local conditions. Beginning about 1850 there was a growing feeling in some of the more
thickly populated sections of the State that the type of Negro slave who sought to frequent
the village saloons would sooner or later start an insurrection. But no such uprising ever
occurred and the fear of such seems to have been due to the current animosity towards the activities
of the abolitionists, which was prevalent throughout the State.

In the course of time it was considered necessary to treat more seriously also the importation
of slaves. The advisability of preventing the importation of bondmen had been foreseen in Kentucky
from the experience of the mother State of Virginia which had enacted a stringent law in 1778
imposing a penalty of one thousand pounds and the forfeiture of the slave upon the importer
of any into that commonwealth. The ninth article of the Kentucky Constitution of 1792 had provided
that the legislature "shall have full power to prevent slaves being brought into this commonwealth
as merchandise; they shall have full power to prevent any slave being brought into this state
from a foreign country, and to prevent those from being brought into this state, who have been
since the first of January, 1789, or may hereafter be imported into any of the United States
from a foreign country."[308]

The session of the State assembly in 1794 drew up a law concerning the importation and emancipation
of slaves but it was largely a mere modification of the law of the State of Virginia. It was
not until the adoption of the slave code of 1798 that the question was firmly settled by a
more definite statement. By article 25 of that act it was provided "that no slave or slaves
shall be imported into this state from any foreign country, nor shall any slave who has been
imported into the United States from any foreign country since the first day of January, 1789,
or may hereafter be imported into the United States from any foreign country under the penalty
of $300."

This was merely carrying out the provisions of the constitution. Section 26 provided that "no
slave or slaves shall be imported into this state as merchandise, and any person offending
herein, shall forfeit and pay the sum of $300 for each slave so imported, to be recovered by
action of debt or information, in any court having cognizance of the same, one half to the
prosecutor, the other half to the use of the commonwealth." More significant was the proviso
that "this act shall not extend to prevent any citizen of this state bringing for his own use,
provided, they have not been brought into the United States from any foreign country since
January 1, 1789; nor shall it be construed to prevent persons emigrating to this state bringing
their slaves with them, but either a citizen of this state or persons emigrating to this state
may bring slaves not prohibited by this act."[309]

An act of 1814 amended the above by prohibiting the importation of slaves by any of the emigrants
if they did not intend to settle in Kentucky.[310] An attempt was made by a law of February
8, 1815, to remedy some of the defects which had been found. The legal penalty for importation
was increased to $600 for each slave imported and a fine of $200 was added for every person
buying or selling such slave. No indictment was to be subject to a shorter limitation than
five years and once so accused no person was to be discharged or acquitted unless he could
produce evidence to show that within sixty days of his arrival in Kentucky he had deposited
the following oath, duly signed, in the county clerk's office where he resides: "I, ...., do
swear that my removal to the state of Kentucky was with the intention of becoming a citizen
thereof, and that I have brought no slave or slaves to this state, with the intention of selling
them."[311]

It is evident from all contemporary discussions of the question of importation that it was
the firm conviction that in order to do justice to the slave and the institution as a whole
within the State it was necessary to prevent the infusion of any foreign slave element. Once
such a policy had been carried out to a successful conclusion, they would have been confronted
only with a purely domestic type of slavery and its increase. With such an ideal condition,
for those times, the institution eventually would have been easily handled. But these early
lawmakers, while no doubt honest in their intentions, did not have the wisdom that was tempered
with experience, and the unscrupulous slave traders found further defects in the law and took
advantage of them. A careful examination of the law of 1794, the codification of 1798, and
the amendments of 1814 and 1815 will show that the whole theory of non-importation is summed
up in the word intent. It was the intent with which the slaves were introduced, and to this
alone the penalty attached. They were not to be imported as merchandise but every citizen could
import slaves for his own use. Once these slaves were within the State there was no penalty
provided if they were sold. There was nothing to prevent a man from selling what slaves he
had imported and later going without the confines of the State and bringing in more. If he
were brought before the court, he would claim that he had not intended to sell them when they
were brought in, and no one could place a penalty on his intentions. It seems that there were
other violators of the spirit of the law, who never sold any of the slaves but brought them
into the State in large numbers and then hired them out for such long terms as 99 years.[312]
The fundamental idea of the law had been to place a curb on the increase of the slave population
by importation and these acts were in direct opposition to the intention of the enactments.

An index of the inefficiency of the existing provisions regarding importation can be found
in the figures on the growth of the slave population during this period when it is borne in
mind that legally slaves could not be imported, except for personal use, after the year 1794.
The slave population in 1790 had been 11,830 and by 1800 had increased to 40,343 or at the
rate of 241.02 per cent; in 1810 there were 80,561 slaves or an increase of 99.69 per cent;
in 1820 there were 126,732, a gain of 57.31 per cent; and by 1830 they had increased 30.36
per cent to a total of 165,213. During the same period there was a great increase in the white
population but it was always from 20 per cent to 40 per cent below that of the slaves. It appears
that the law prohibiting importation was not as effective as it should have been. While none
of the statesmen appear to have figured from the statistical viewpoint there was no end of
discussion regarding the necessity of extending the law to include more than the question of
intent at the time of importation.

The avowed resolution of Kentucky to deal with the slavery question in the most humane manner
and to stop any unscrupulous dealing in slaves for the mere sake of profit is nowhere more
clearly shown than in the firm action which was taken not only in the court room but in the
legislative halls when it was found that advantage had been taken of the letter of the law
at the expense of its spirit. On February 2, 1833, the legislature passed a law prohibiting
all importation of slaves even for personal use. The only exception provided in this case was
that emigrants were allowed to bring in slaves, if they took the oath that had been provided
in the law of 1815. The evil mentioned above brought about by hiring slaves for excessively
long terms was prohibited by declaring illegal any contract which extended beyond one year
and exacting a penalty of $600 for each offense. This law of 1833 was destined to be the crux
of many a heated argument for the remainder of the slavery period. Many a candidate for office
during the next thirty years rose to victory or fell in defeat because of his position with
regard to this one statute of the State. It was the briefest of all the enactments on the slavery
question but it was by far the most important and far-reaching provision that the legislature
ever enacted in connection with the institution.[313]

It is noticeable that this measure was not brought about in any sense by the activities of
the abolitionists, for they had not at that time made their appearance in the State. It was
an honest endeavor on the part of the native population, slaveholding as well as non-slaveholding,
to carry out the spirit of their State constitution which had been adopted back in 1792. Thomas
F. Marshall, who later was the leader of the Lexington group which removed Cassius M. Clay's
True American to Cincinnati, has borne testimony to the fact that the slaveholding element
voted for the law of 1833. "At the time of the passage of this law," said he, "the sect known
by the title of 'abolitionists' had not made their appearance. And, as I was sworn then upon
the constitution of my country, by all the obligations of that oath, I affirm now that I do
not believe that the principles and designs ascribed to that party were in the contemplation
of any human being who voted for the law. I was myself not only never an abolitionist, but
never an emancipationist upon any plan which I ever heard proposed."[314]

But the question was not settled for all time, for with the coming of the abolitionist element
there was a general tendency throughout the State to enact stricter laws governing slaves.
Many who had voted for the enactment began to cry for a repeal of the law, but it was not until
the session of 1841 that it was seriously debated in the general assembly. Then after a long
and ardent discussion in the House of Representatives a vote was taken on the ninth of January--with
34 in favor of the repeal and 53 against it. Never within the previous decade had a bill before
the House produced such popular interest.[315] It came up in the Senate at the session of 1843
but after another warm debate it failed by a vote of 14 to 21. Sentiment for the repeal continued
to grow and in 1849 the law was amended so as "no longer to prohibit persons from purchasing
and bringing into the State slaves for their own use."[316] This changed the situation back
to what it was before 1833, for it will be recalled that the main feature of the law of 1833
compared with that of 1815 was the prohibition of importation even for personal use. It could
easily have been predicted that such an amendment would pass, for the legislature of 1847 had
passed 27 distinct resolutions granting to as many individuals the right to import slaves for
personal use. The session of 1848 made 24 similar provisions.

This apparently radical swing towards the side of the slave owner in 1849 was more than likely
brought about by the very intense campaign which was carried on by the emancipationists. Such
a movement served to unite the slave forces against any attack upon the institution. This tendency
was shown not only in the halls of the State legislature but in the constitutional convention
which met later in the same year. Although the abolitionists had looked forward to some advanced
constitutional provisions on emancipation and the inclusion of the law of 1833 in the organic
law of the State they were astounded to be met with the virtual repeal of that statute by the
legislature.

The slave trader once more had the courage to appear in the State. Richard Henry Collins in
an editorial in the Maysville Eagle, November 6, 1849, gives us some vivid evidence of the
effect which the repeal of the law of 1833 had had in a few weeks' time. "A remarkably forcible
and practical argument in favor of incorporating the negro law of 1833 into the new constitution
reached this city in bodily shape on Sunday, per the steamer Herman from Charleston, Virginia.
Forty-four negroes--men, women and children--of whom seventeen men had handcuffs on one hand
and were chained together, two and two, passed through this city for the interior of the State,
under charge of two regular traders. We opine that few who saw the spectacle would hereafter
say aught against the readoption of the anti-importation act of 1833." Such scenes as this
were the result of the passage of an innocent-looking measure which allowed citizens to import
slaves for their own use, but which could really be made to include almost any influx of slaves.

No further change in the importation laws was made until the crisis immediately preceding the
Civil War, when practically all opposition was removed and the law of 1833 was abolished in
its entirety.[317] Explanations of the sudden turn of mind are not hard to find for the enactment
was passed amid the turmoil and chaos brought on by an impending war and the radical slaveholders
found it easy to get votes for their side in a last vain endeavor to save the institution,
not so much from an economic standpoint as from a matter of principle. The last chapter in
the legal history of the importation problem in Kentucky, however, had not yet been written.
After three years of the armed conflict between the North and the South, Kentucky, which had
remained loyal to the Union and fought against the slave power of the South, reenacted on February
2, 1864, the old law of 1798 on the prohibition of the importation of slaves.[318] The wording
was somewhat different, but the essential provisions were the same. Coming at such a time,
it never had any significance in the slavery problem in the State, but it is interesting as
one of the last vain efforts of the institution before it was mustered out of the State by
an amendment to the federal constitution, which was passed without the assent of the State
legislature of Kentucky.

No less serious than the question of importation was the problem of the fugitive slave. This
has been treated many times and every discussion of it has involved much of what transpired
in Kentucky or on its borders. It is not the purpose here to repeat any of that story because
it belongs rather to the anti-slavery field, and, furthermore, has been recently very well
treated by A. E. Martin in his Anti-slavery Movement in Kentucky. We are here concerned with
the legal phase of the fugitive problem as it existed in Kentucky throughout this period, as
an internal question; in the relation between the State and other States; and between the State
and the federal authorities. In so far as it relates to the law within the State such a discussion
naturally divides itself into two phases--those measures which affected the fugitive slave
himself, and those which were directed towards conspirators who might have brought about the
escape of slaves. The former group of laws were enacted, for the most part, in the early days
of statehood, for a runaway slave was a natural evil in any condition of servitude. The latter
group of measures were passed in the later days of the institution when the anti-slavery propagandists
came in from the North, for until then there were no cases of enticement. A large majority
of those who were placed on trial for conspiracy in the history of slavery in Kentucky proved
to be outsiders who had come into the State after 1835. The citizens of the commonwealth who
were opposed to the institution were satisfied to confine themselves to mere words advocating
the emancipation of slaves.

The State early adopted the slave code of Virginia in regard to the treatment of runaway slaves
just as it did in regard to the general legal rights of the bonded Negro but provided more
drastic regulations in 1798. Any person who suspected a Negro of being a runaway slave could
take him before a justice of the peace, and swear to his belief in the guilt of the accused.
Being provided with a certificate from the justice where he found the slave, the apprehender
could then take the fugitive back to the owner and might collect ten shillings as a reward
and an additional shilling for each mile of travel necessary in bringing the slave to the master.
If the money should not be paid, the person entitled to it could recover the sum in any court
of record in the State upon the production of his certificate of apprehension as legal evidence.[319]

In many cases the runaway could not be identified as the property of any particular owner,
so provision was made for the commitment of the offender to the county jail. The keeper was
forthwith to post a bulletin on the courthouse with a complete description of the Negro. If
at the end of two months no claimant appeared the sheriff was to publish an advertisement in
the Lexington Gazette for three consecutive months so that the news of capture would reach
a larger public. In the meantime the sheriff was authorized to hire out the fugitive and the
wages thus received were to pay for the reward of the captor and the expenses incurred by the
county officials. If the owner appeared during the period and proved his property, he could
have the slave at once in spite of any labor contract, providing he would pay any excess of
expenses over wages received. But often the master never appeared and if a year had expired
since the last advertisement had been published in the Gazette, the sheriff could sell the
slave and place the proceeds of the sale plus the wages received over the expenses, in the
county treasury. This sum was credited to the unknown owner, for if he should appear at any
future time the county would reimburse him for his loss, otherwise the fund reverted to the
county.[320]

This legal code for the apprehension of runaway slaves remained practically unchanged throughout
the period of slavery. The only amendments which were ever made were those for the increase
of the reward to the captor and it is significant that the first of these changes did not come
until more than a generation later in 1835. Then the compensation was divided into three classes:
for those captured in their own county, $10; in another county, $20; out of the State, $30.[321]
Just three years later it was found necessary to increase this by the following interesting
law: "The compensation for apprehending fugitive slaves taken without this commonwealth, and
in a State where slavery is not tolerated by law, shall be one hundred dollars, on the delivery
to the owner at his residence within this commonwealth, and seventy-five dollars if lodged
in the jail of any county in this commonwealth, and the owner be notified so as to be able
to reclaim the slave."[322] There were no more advances until a law of March 3, 1860, increased
the reward to one hundred and fifty dollars if the slave were caught outside the State and
brought back to the home county; one hundred and twenty-five dollars if caught outside the
State and brought back to any county in Kentucky; and twenty dollars if caught anywhere in
the home county.

The trend of these laws, from the viewpoint of the rewards alone, shows the increasing importance
of the fugitive problem to the slaveholding group. It is noticeable that from the year 1798
until 1835 there was not sufficient pressure upon the State legislature to increase the reward
to the captor of a runaway. It is further evident from the scarcity of contemporary advertisements
that there were comparatively few Negroes who ventured forth from the neighborhood of their
masters. But with the rise of the anti-slavery movement in the North and the growth of abolition
sentiment as expressed by the apostles of Negro freedom who had come from across the Ohio,
the slaves tended to run away in ever-increasing numbers. This was soon followed by a more
rigid policy of apprehension upon the part of the Kentucky legal authorities, apparent in the
increasing reward.

Not all cases of fugitives were to be reached by a mere system of capture and reward. Barely
did a slave make his escape into a free State without the aid of some one in sympathy with
him. Hence the need for legal machinery to punish those who assisted runaways. From a chronological
point of view the laws governing such cases divide themselves into two parts; in the early
days they refer to those who would help a slave who had already escaped; in the later period
they were directed towards those who induced slaves to leave their home plantations.

Whichever of the free States he tried to reach it was necessary for the Negro to cross the
Ohio River to get to his haven of refuge. If the Kentucky authorities could prevent him from
crossing the stream on the northern and western boundary, they could prevent any slave from
making a successful escape. Consequently the legislature as early as 1823 attempted to solve
the problem by passing a law forbidding masters of vessels and others from employing and removing
Negroes out of the State.[323] This act prevented runaways from securing work on a steamboat
with the specific purpose of leaving once they were on free soil. But as usual this enactment
was not effective, because there was a loop-hole in it. The State assembly in 1831, therefore,
provided that no ferryman on the Ohio River should transport slaves across from Kentucky. No
other person, not owning or keeping a ferry, was to be permitted to set slaves over, or to
loan them boats or watercraft. Slaves could only cross the river when they had the written
consent of their masters. Each and every owner of a ferry was required to give bond in the
sum of $3,000 to carry out the spirit of the law; and for every violation he was subject to
a fine of $200.[324]

Not content with their previous efforts the general assembly of 1838 went still further and
prohibited slaves from going as passengers on mail stages or coaches anywhere within the State,
except upon the written request of their owners, or in the master's company. The liability
for the enforcement of the law rested upon the stage proprietors, who were to be fined $100
for each slave illegally transported.[325]

No stringent laws were made against the enticement of slaves to run away until 1830 when the
abolitionists first began to appear. Until that time there seems to have been no need for any
legal enactment regarding the question. The only trouble previously had been with the whites
and free Negroes who aided a slave already on his way to the North. It was in response to the
popular demand that on January 28, 1830, the State legislature provided severe penalties for
any person found guilty of (1) enticing a slave to leave his owner, (2) furnishing a forged
paper of freedom, (3) assisting a slave to escape out of the State, (4) enticing a slave to
run away, or (5) concealing a runaway slave. Should a person be suspected of any one of these
offenses and not be found guilty, he was to give security for his good behavior to avoid all
accusation in the future.[326]

The most interesting legal case based on this law was that of Delia Webster, a young lady from
Vermont, who was tried in the Fayette Circuit Court in December, 1844, for the enticement of
a Negro slave boy from Lexington. The details of the trial show that the court was just and
fair in spite of the fact that both Miss Webster and her copartner, Calvin Fairbank, were not
citizens of the State and had furthermore used all kinds of deceit to accomplish their purpose.
For the sake of aiding one Negro slave boy to reach freedom they went to the expense and trouble
to feign an elopement to Ohio via Maysville, but the Lexington authorities caught them as they
were coming back on the Lexington Pike near Paris. At the trial it was shown that Fairbank
was in Kentucky for no other reason than to induce slaves to escape to the North and that Miss
Webster had come to Lexington as a school teacher merely as a cloak for her abolitionist work.
The evidence offered by the prosecution was damaging in the extreme. The defense put forth
no data for her side at all, evidently preferring to be hailed as a martyr to the cause for
which she stood. The jury brought in a verdict of guilty and she was sentenced to serve two
years in the State penitentiary.[327]

The young accomplice, Calvin Fairbank, proved to be the most persistent abolitionist the Kentucky
authorities ever encountered. He pleaded guilty to the indictment as charged and was sentenced
to serve 15 years in the penitentiary, to which he was taken February 18, 1845. Evidently convinced
that he had been punished sufficiently Governor John J. Crittenden pardoned him August 23,
1849, on condition that he leave the State at once.[328] But such an ardent young enthusiast
for the cause of Negro freedom soon found that there were other slaves who were in need of
his aid and on November 3, 1851, he came across from Jeffersonville to Louisville under the
cover of night and "kidnapped" a young mulatto woman who had been doomed to be sold at auction.[329]
Presumably in the hope of rescuing other slaves he remained in the vicinity for several days
until on the morning of November 9 he was arrested by the Kentucky authorities. Fairbank was
placed in jail pending his trial, which took place in the following March, when he was again
sentenced to serve 15 years at hard labor in the State penitentiary. He began his term March
9, 1852.[330] This time he was not so fortunate in an early release. The chief executives of
the State from time to time refused to pardon him. In April, 1864, Governor Bramlette was called
to Washington by President Lincoln for a conference and Richard T. Jacobs, the Lieutenant-Governor,
became the acting Governor. This son-in-law of Thomas H. Benton had taken more or less pity
on Fairbank, for he had stated to the prisoner that if he ever became the chief executive he
would release him. The opportunity thus being presented for the first time, Jacob pardoned
Fairbank on April 15, 1864, after a continuous imprisonment of twelve years. Such was the experience
in Kentucky of an ardent northern abolitionist who boasted that he had "liberated forty-seven
slaves from hell."[331]

The systematic stealing of slaves from Kentucky had begun about 1841 and at the time of the
Webster and Fairbank trial was at its height. This movement was one of the results growing
out of the animosity created by another legal case which occurred in 1838--that of the Rev.
John B. Mahan of Brown County, Ohio. This Methodist minister, although living in the State
of Ohio, was indicted by the grand jury of Mason County, Kentucky, for having aided in the
escape of certain slaves. Governor Clark, of Kentucky, then issued a requisition on the Governor
of Ohio for Mahan as a "fugitive from justice." Upon receipt of the demand, the chief executive
of Ohio immediately issued a warrant for the arrest of the minister. A short time later he
became convinced that this step had been too hasty, because Mahan had never been in Kentucky.
His offense had merely consisted in helping runaways along the "underground railroad," once
they were on free soil.

Hence, Governor Vance sent a special messenger to the chief executive of Kentucky redemanding
the alleged fugitive from justice. Governor Clark made this very cordial and diplomatic reply:

     The position assumed by you in relation to the fact of Mahan
     having never been within the limits of Kentucky is clearly
     correct, and if upon the legal investigation of the case it be
     found true, he will doubtless be acquitted. I feel great
     solicitude that this citizen of your state, who has been arrested
     and brought to Kentucky, upon my requisition, shall receive
     ample and full justice, and that, if upon legal investigation he
     be found innocent of the crime alleged against him, he shall be
     released and set at liberty. I will, therefore, address a letter
     to the judge and commonwealth attorney of the Mason Circuit,
     communicating to them the substance of your letter, and the
     evidence which you have transmitted to me.[332]

The efforts of the Governor of Ohio were eventually successful, for in spite of his slaveholding
sympathies Governor Clark wrote to the judge of the Mason Circuit and the latter charged the
jury in no uncertain terms regarding the jurisdiction in the case. After a trial of six days
Mahan was acquitted.

The importance of this case does not rest in the trial and its events but rather in the reactions
which it had upon the Kentucky populace. No one doubted that Mahan was guilty of aiding slaves;
but it was seen that he had been shrewd enough to confine his activities to the State of Ohio,
where the Kentucky authorities had no jurisdiction. In his opening message to the State legislature,
which met the next month after the acquittal of Mahan, Governor Clark voiced the sentiment
of a large majority of Kentuckians. Bear in mind that these words came from the same man who
a month before had advised the Circuit judge of the illegality of the Mahan indictment.

     Some of the abolitionists of an adjoining state, not contented
     with the mere promulgation of opinions and views calculated to
     excite a feeling of disaffection among our slave population, and
     to render this description of property insecure in the hands of
     its proprietors, have extended their operations so far as to
     mingle personally with our slaves, to enter into arrangements
     with them, and to afford them the means and facilities to escape
     from their owners. This flagitious conduct is not to be
     tolerated--it must be checked in its origin by the adoption of
     efficient and energetic measures, or it will, in all human
     probability, lead to results greatly to be deprecated by every
     friend to law and order. This demon-like spirit that rages
     uncontrolled by law, or sense of moral right, must be
     overcome--it must be subdued; its action in the state should be
     prohibited under such penalties as will effectually curb its
     lawlessness and disarm its power.[333]

In pursuance of this and similar recommendations the State legislature early in 1839 despatched
a delegation of members to the general assembly of Ohio then meeting at Columbus. These men
were charged to secure a law in Ohio for the better security of Kentucky fugitive slave property.
The Kentucky officials had always been confronted with the problem of recovering runaways captured
in Ohio, even when they personally knew the captive. The old law of 1807 in Ohio was never
lax in the enforcement, but the plea of habeas corpus was habitually used for the defendant
and, furthermore, it often happened that the necessary proofs of ownership were not in evidence.
These facts coupled with the publicity of the Mahan trial brought about the peculiar legislative
commission from Kentucky.

Here was a delegation from a slave commonwealth sent to a free State to demand a rigorous fugitive
slave law for their own benefit. The Kentucky committee went even further and suggested the
provisions of the proposed enactment--and the remarkable thing was that they actually succeeded.
Although Ohio was known to be the home of anti-slavery interests the law passed without any
difficulty. By its provisions a slave owner or his agent could appear before any judge, justice
or mayor, who was authorized to issue a warrant to any sheriff in Ohio calling upon him to
arrest the fugitive and bring him before any judge in the county where caught. Upon proof of
his ownership to the court the owner was entitled to a certificate for removal. A heavy fine
and imprisonment were the penalty for any interference with the execution of either the warrant
or the removal of the slave. The vote on this measure in the House of Representatives was 53
to 15. There has been made an analysis of this roll call, which shows that the opposition all
came from northern Ohio--whereas those in the southern part of the State voted for it because
they were not inclined to allow any disturbance of the friendly commercial relationship which
they had with their neighbor State to the south. Moreover, they objected to their locality
being used as a place of refuge for unfortunate Negroes.[334]

Henceforth Ohio became a veritable hunting ground for fugitive slaves, but the wiser of the
Negroes and the abolitionists diverted their efforts to other fields of escape, especially
through Indiana and Illinois. The legal authorities at this time began to realize that their
hope lay in the enactment of a federal law but no definite steps were taken until after the
affair of Francis Troutman at Marshall, Michigan, in January, 1847. Troutman came from Kentucky
to Michigan to bring back six runaways that had been located at Marshall. When he had found
them and was about to take them before a magistrate for identification, a crowd of citizens
of the town put in their appearance and threatened injury to Troutman and his three Kentucky
companions. Although the latter were acting in accordance with the law the mob would not let
them proceed in any manner--not even to appear before the magistrate--but demanded that they
leave town within two hours. In the meantime they were all four arrested, tried and found guilty
of trespass.[335] When these events were reported back to Kentucky mass meetings were held
throughout the State in protest against the Michigan action. The State legislature drew up
a resolution calling upon Congress to enact a new fugitive slave law.[336] The Senate referred
the petition to the Committee on Judiciary and they later reported a new fugitive slave bill
which was read twice and then pigeonholed. The same action was repeated at the next session
in 1849.

The general feeling in Kentucky was intensified just at this time by a decision of the United
States Supreme Court in the case of Jones vs. Van Zandt, which had been pending in various
courts for five years. In April, 1842, John Van Zandt, a former Kentuckian, then living in
Springdale just north of Cincinnati, was caught in the act of aiding nine fugitive slaves to
escape, and one of them got away even from the slave catchers. Consequently Wharton Jones,
the Kentucky owner, brought suit against Van Zandt in the U. S. Circuit Court under the federal
fugitive slave act of 1793 for $500 for concealing and harboring a fugitive slave. The jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of $1,200 as damages on two other counts in
addition to the penalty of $500 for concealing and harboring. Salmon P. Chase was the lawyer
for Van Zandt and in a violent attack on the law 1793 he appealed to the U. S. Supreme Court
on the grounds that this statute was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and
to the sixth article of the Ordinance of 1787. Van Zandt in the appeal had the advantage of
the services of William H. Seward in addition to Chase while Jones was represented by Senator
Morehead, of Kentucky. Justice Levi Woodbury in rendering the decision of the court sustained
all the judgments against Van Zandt and denied that the law of 1793 was opposed to either the
Constitution or the Ordinance of 1787.[337]

At last the people of Kentucky had secured a firm ruling from the highest judicial authority
on the force of the existing laws. Cold reason in the light of that day, apart from all anti-slavery
propaganda, justified them in making these demands. Henceforth, there was no doubt about the
legality of their position--it was a question merely of the illegal opposition to the return
of fugitives from the States to the North. The Troutman case and many others, however, had
served as an index of northern sentiment in the matter, for the troubles of the Kentucky slaveholder
were just beginning. A year later, in 1848, a requisition was issued on the Governor of Ohio
for the return of fifteen persons charged with aiding in the escape of slaves. Imagine the
feeling in Kentucky when Governor Bell of Ohio positively refused to give these persons up,
stating that the laws of Ohio did not recognize man as property. It was apparently a political
move on his part, for there was no question of the property conception of slavery involved
whatsoever. He acted in direct opposition to the laws of his State enacted in 1839 and to the
federal fugitive slave law of 1793.

After two decades of struggle the abolitionists had come into their own and it was almost impossible
to recover slaves who had run away in spite of the legal machinery that had been set up. Furthermore,
the more extreme abolitionists had disregarded all law, orders and rights of private property
and had even gone so far as to proclaim that there was a "higher law than the Constitution."
Against such a powerful foe the forces of all parties in Kentucky united in a firm stand, demanding
more stringent measures. The Supreme Court had decided that the existing law was sufficient
to recover fugitives and to demand and secure damages for the interference with that right.
With the coming of new conditions, however, it was realized on all sides that new and most
extreme measures were necessary.

The existing circumstances are well shown by the attitude of Henry Clay, senator from Kentucky
as well as author of the Compromise of 1850. Noted for his leanings towards the North, throughout
his public career of more than half a century, and as far back as 1798 the advocate of gradual
emancipation in Kentucky, he felt called upon in this crisis to express the irritation of his
own people:

     I have very little doubt, indeed, that the extent of loss to the
     state of Kentucky, in consequence of the escape of her slaves is
     greater, at least in proportion to the total number of slaves
     that are held within that commonwealth, even than in Virginia. I
     know full well, and so does the honorable senator from Ohio know,
     that it is at the utmost hazard and insecurity to life itself,
     that a Kentuckian can cross the river and go into the interior to
     take back his fugitive slave from whence he fled. Recently an
     example occurred even in the city of Cincinnati in respect to one
     of our most respectable citizens. Not having visited Ohio at all,
     but Covington, on the opposite side of the river, a little slave
     of his escaped over to Cincinnati. He pursued it; he found it in
     the house in which it was concealed; he took it out, and it was
     rescued by the violence and force of a negro mob from his
     possession--the police of the city standing by, and either
     unwilling or unable to afford the assistance which was requisite
     to enable him to recover his property.

     Upon this subject I do think that we have just and serious cause
     of complaint against the free states. I think they fail in
     fulfilling a great obligation, and the failure is precisely upon
     one of those subjects which in its nature is the most irritating
     and inflaming to those who live in the slave states.[338]

The Fugitive Slave Law of 1793 was superseded by that of 1850 by a sort of political bargaining
on the other measures of the Compromise. The letter of the new law was not much different from
the one of 1793--the chief changes being in the exaction of severer penalties and the transfer
of jurisdiction to the federal courts. But even if members from the North did vote for the
new provision there was no public sentiment in the North back of its enforcement. Everyone
in Kentucky was heartily in favor of it, but that mattered little. The effectiveness of any
fugitive slave law depended upon the spirit in which it was met in the North, for it was there
that the law was to be applied. It remained for a more or less forgotten decision of the Supreme
Court in 1861 to show the greatest weakness of all laws for the recovery of runaway slaves
in the North.

In October, 1859, the Woodford County (Kentucky) grand jury returned an indictment against
Willis Lago, a free Negro, charging him with the seduction and enticement of Charlotte, a Negro
slave, from her owner, C. W. Nickols. A copy of this indictment certified and authenticated
according to the federal law was presented to the Governor of Ohio by the authorized agent
of the Governor of Kentucky and the arrest and delivery of the fugitive from justice demanded.
The Governor of Ohio referred the matter to the Attorney-General of the State and upon his
advice the chief executive refused to deliver up the Negro. The Supreme Court having original
jurisdiction in suits between two States, the demand for a mandamus to compel the Governor
of Ohio to deliver Lago to the Kentucky authorities was heard by that body in a suit under
the title of Kentucky vs. Dennison (the Governor of Ohio). The decision of the court was rendered
by Chief Justice Taney and it contained five important statements: (1) "It was the duty of
the executive authority of Ohio upon the demand made by the Governor of Kentucky, and the production
of the indictment, duly certified to cause Lago to be delivered up to the agent of the Governor
of Kentucky, who was appointed to demand and receive him." (2) "The duty of the Governor of
Ohio was merely ministerial, and he had no right to exercise any discretionary power as to
the nature or character of the crime charged in the indictment." (3) "The word 'duty' in the
act of 1793 means the moral obligation of the state to perform the compact, in the Constitution,
when Congress had, by that act, regulated the mode in which the duty should be performed."
(4) "But Congress cannot coerce a state officer, as such, to perform any duty by act of Congress.
The state officer may perform if he thinks proper, and it may be a moral duty to perform it.
But if he refuses, no law of Congress can compel him." (5) "The Governor of Ohio cannot, through
the judiciary or any other department of the general government, be compelled to deliver up
Lago; and upon that ground only this motion for a mandamus is overruled."[339]

This decision came as a fitting climax to the legal history of the fugitive slave problem as
it concerned Kentucky. Such an interpretation placed by the highest judicial authority upon
an act of Congress which had stood throughout the slavery era in Kentucky showed beyond any
doubt whatever that the legal battle over slavery questions was at an end. If any solution
was to be found in the future it would not be in the legislative halls nor in the court room.

Emancipation was an important question closely connected with that of the fugitive. This was
one of the problems to be discussed in the Constitutional Convention of 1792. There were some
few members who were in favor of immediate liberation and others inclined towards a scheme
of gradual release of the Negro from bondage. But, as has been shown in the early part of this
chapter, the group in favor of the existing institution easily dominated the convention and
drew up the famous article IX, which remained without change throughout the slavery era as
a part of the fundamental constitutional law.

From a purely objective viewpoint it is doubtful if a fairer legal guide for the institution
of slavery in relation to the rights of emancipation could have been drawn up. On one side,
it prevented the State authorities from depriving a slaveholder of his property without due
compensation. On the other hand, no unscrupulous master was to free his old and invalid slaves
and thereby inflict the burden of their support upon the community as a whole. But this constitutional
provision had no legal force in itself. It was to serve as a guide for the enactment of statute
laws later.

The State assembly on December 17, 1794, proceeded to the enactment of the first emancipation
law of the State. The contents of Article IX of the Constitution were carefully followed and
the detailed legal code of emancipation laid down in these words:

     It shall be lawful for any person by his or her last will and
     testament, or by any other instrument in writing, under his or
     her hand and seal, attested and proved in the county court by
     two witnesses, or acknowledged by the party in the court of the
     county where he or she resides, to emancipate or set free his or
     her slave or slaves: who shall thereupon be entirely and fully
     discharged from the performance of any contract entered into
     during servitude, and enjoy as full freedom as if they had been
     born free. And the said court shall have full power to demand
     bond and sufficient security of the emancipator, his or her
     executors or administrators, as the case may be, for the
     maintenance of any slave or slaves that may be aged or infirm,
     either of body or mind, to prevent their becoming chargeable to
     the county. And every slave so emancipated shall have a
     certificate of freedom from the clerk of such court on parchment
     with the county seal affixed thereto, for which the clerk shall
     charge the emancipator five shillings; saving, however, the
     rights of creditors and every person or persons, bodies politic
     and corporate, except the heirs or legal representatives of the
     person so emancipating their slaves.[340]

This law remained throughout the slavery period in Kentucky and the only changes which were
ever made in it were in the minor details to untangle some legal ambiguities. The law of 1823,
however, is important in showing the discrepancies of the original provisions. By this amendment
it was enacted that when the county courts received proof or acknowledgment of a deed of emancipation,
or of a will emancipating slaves, they were to note on their record a description of any such
slaves. The certificate of freedom which was given to the Negro was also to contain this description
and no other certificate was to be issued except on the presentation of proof that the first
one had been lost or when such was required for use as evidence in some suit. If any slave
thus liberated was found to have presented his certificate to another still held in bondage
with a design of freeing him, the emancipated slave was to suffer severe penalties.[341] These
added provisions apparently came to fill all the gaps in the previous law and no further amendments
of importance were needed to make the laws of emancipation run smoothly.

Of all the many slavery cases which were brought before the Court of Appeals in the next thirty
years it is interesting to note that nearly all of them concerned themselves more or less with
the question of freedom. The very fact that they reached the highest court is also conclusive
evidence that the law was not quite as clear as one would at first suppose. Close study of
the findings of the court will show that the judiciary was always consistent in its interpretation
of the law and that most of the cases were carried up from the lower courts because of disputes
between the heirs of an estate and the administrator as to their precedence in the matter of
slaves. This part of the controversy concerned itself with the property conception of the slave,
whether he was real or personal estate, which was discussed earlier in this chapter. The purely
emancipation cases before the Court of Appeals divide themselves into three parts: (1) those
which concerned the interpretation of the statute law, (2) those suits for freedom which were
based on the question of residence and (3) those which involved persons detained as slaves.

Most of the first class of cases concerned themselves with the emancipation of slaves by will.
The number of slaveholders who freed their Negroes during their own lifetime seems to have
been very small. On the other hand, from a study of the slave cases in court it appears to
have been a very common thing for an owner to provide for the freedom of his slaves in his
will. The right of a master to dispose of his own property was beyond dispute, but, as is often
the case, the heirs were seldom satisfied and they brought the will into court on one or more
technical grounds in an attempt to break the document which freed so much valuable property.
The court in every case held that the right of the owner was absolute and that if by the letter
of his will his slaves were freed, that right was subject to no dispute. Furthermore, when
the Negroes were thus emancipated they did not pass to the personal representatives of the
deceased, as assets. They passed by will just as land, and the devise took effect at the death
of the testator, whether it be a devise to the slave, of his freedom, or of the slave, to another.
The servant, thus affected, had only to appear before the county court and establish his emancipation.
This accomplished, it was the duty of the court to give him a certificate of freedom without
the consent of the representatives of the emancipator.[342] The right of disposal rested with
the owner, who could emancipate by act, or by will, and he who denied the right or placed any
claim against it was compelled to show the prohibition.[343]

While the owner had absolute powers of disposal of his own slaves he could not draw up a will
of prospective freedom which would hold in spite of the rights of his heirs. If a master desired
to be very lenient with his servants, he had to make their freedom absolute and in writing.
This was well brought out in the case of an apparently kind-hearted Kentucky slaveholder who
provided in his will that his slaves were to select their own master without regard to price.
They chose as their future owner a man who did not need them, but who offered to take them
at about half their real value. The court held that in such a case the executor was not bound
to accept the offer, since the interests of those entitled to the proceeds of the sale, as
well as the desire and comfort of the slaves, were to be regarded.[344] Another owner had the
right idea, but defeated his own intentions by willing all his forty slaves to the Kentucky
Colonization Society. The court held that such an act by no means freed the slaves and that
by the laws of the State until they were free they could be hired out and the proceeds considered
as a part of the estate.[345]

As in all border States there were many legal battles for freedom, which involved the question
of residence on free soil. These cases were largely concerned with the question of the right
of a citizen of Kentucky to pass through a free State on business or pleasure attended by his
slaves or servants without losing his right of ownership over such slaves. The principle involved
was early considered in the Kentucky Court of Appeals and faithfully carried out in succeeding
generations, viz.: that a "fixed residence" or being domiciled in a non-slaveholding State
would operate to release the slave from the power of the master; but that the transient passing
or sojourning therein had no such effect. In an early case in 1820 involving a suit for freedom
the court held that a person of color from Kentucky who was permitted to reside in a free State
could prosecute his right to freedom in any other State. It was held to be a vested right to
freedom, which existed wherever he went.[346] In another instance an owner permitted his slave
to go at large for twenty years, but the court held that that alone did not give him freedom.
Still under this liberty of movement the slave went off into a free State to reside and the
court held that the Negro was then free because his right grew out of the law of the free State
and not out of that in which the owner resided.[347] An owner permitted his slave to go to
Pennsylvania and remain there for a longer period than six months, with a knowledge of the
law passed in that State in 1780, and the Kentucky Court of Appeals held that the slave was
entitled to his freedom and that even if the slave had returned to Kentucky his right could
be asserted there just as well as in Pennsylvania.[348] But should a slave go with his master
to a free State and later return to Kentucky with him, whatever status he had then was to be
determined by the law of Kentucky and not by the rule of any State where the slave might have
been.[349] The fact that a slave stayed in New York for three months before his return to Kentucky,
his owner knowing he was there, and making no effort to bring him away, did not give to such
slave a right to freedom.[350] A slaveholder sent one of his servants over into Illinois to
cut some wood for a few weeks and later the latter brought suit for freedom on the grounds
of residence in a free State but the court denied any such right, since the slave returned
to his master in Kentucky voluntarily.[351]

If an emancipated Negro for any reason was held in slavery and later established his right
to freedom in court, he could not recover compensation for his services or damages for his
detention, unless he could prove that he was held under full knowledge of his right or with
good reason to believe him free. If pending his suit for freedom he should be hired out by
order of the court, the net hire was to be awarded to him if he succeeded.[352]

The actual number of manumissions which took place in Kentucky will no doubt never be known.
Among the few statistics are those of the federal census for 1850 and 1860 and they include
only the figures for the one census year. According to this source in 1850 only 152 slaves
were voluntarily set free in the State or one slave out of every 1,388, a percentage of only
.072; and in 1860 there were 170 Negroes recorded as freed or one out of every 1,281 slaves,
a percentage of only .078. We can easily assume from the accounts which we have from papers
of that time that these numbers were far short of those that were really set free by their
masters. It was the custom of many owners who were about to free their slaves to take them
to Cincinnati and there have them set free in the Probate Court.

Early in 1859, forty-nine slaves from Fayette County, mostly women and children, were brought
to Cincinnati and set free and later sent to a colony of emancipated Negroes in Green County,
Ohio.[353] In March of the same year Robert Barnet of Lincoln County, Kentucky appeared with
eighteen slaves--a father, mother, nine children and three grandchildren and another woman
and four boys, who were all emancipated in the Cincinnati Probate Court. Before crossing the
Ohio, while in Covington, he was offered $20,000 for all of them but he stated that he would
refuse even $50,000.[354] In January, 1860, William McGinnis, of Bourbon County, appeared with
fourteen slaves before the same probate court and set them all free.[355]

The law of Kentucky plainly provided that no slave was to be emancipated unless bond were given
that he would immediately leave the State. Hence it was but natural that a master who intended
setting his slaves free should take them as slaves to a free State and there give them their
freedom, thus satisfying his own conscience and at the same time removing any future legal
trouble that might ensue on account of his former slaves being found in the State of Kentucky.
For this reason it would seem that a large number of the kind-hearted slaveholders who freed
their slaves did so outside the bounds of Kentucky and thus that State was deprived of the
credit for many emancipations which took place voluntarily at the hands of her own slaveholders.

FOOTNOTES:

[285] Littell's Laws, 1: 32.

[286] Brown, John Mason, The Political Beginnings of Kentucky, p. 229.

[287] Littell's Laws, 1: 44.

[288] Ibid., 1: 161.

[289] Littell's Laws, 2: 113.

[290] Littell's Laws, 2: 114.

[291] Littell's Laws, 2: 116-117.

[292] Littell's Laws, 2: 117-118.

[293] Littell's Laws, 3: 403.

[294] Ibid., 2: 117-118.

[295] Niles' Register, February 2, 1830.

[296] Littell's Laws, 4: 223-224.

[297] Stroud, Laws relating to Slavery, p. 86. Littell & Swigert, 2: 1066-9; 1060-4.

[298] It would perhaps be well to point out here the general common-law difference between
the treatment of real and personal estate in a will. The title of the personal property of
the deceased is vested in the executor and he holds it for the payment of debts and distribution
according to the will of the testator. On the other hand the real estate vests in the devisees
or heirs and does not go to the administrator, unless by statute enactment, which was in part
true in Kentucky, in the case above, where the slaves, although real estate, were held liable
for the debts of their master. Littell's Laws, 2: 120.

[299] T. B. Monroe's Report I., 23.

[300] Beatty vs. Judy, 1 Dana, 101. Plumpton vs. Cook, 2 A. K. Marshall, 450.

[301] Rothert, History of Muhlenburg County, p. 343.

[302] Young, B. H., History of Jessamine County, p. 89.

[303] Session Laws, 1834, p. 726.

[304] Ibid., 1850, p. 51.

[305] Ibid., 1856, Vol. 1, pp. 42-44.

[306] Ibid., 1858, Vol. 1, pp. 47-48.

[307] Starling, p. 290.

[308] Littell's Laws, 1: 32.

[309] Littell's Laws, 2: 119.

[310] Ibid., 5: 293.

[311] Ibid., 5: 435-437.

[312] Barre, W. L., Speeches and Writings of Thomas F. Marshall, p. 115.

[313] Section 1 of the law 1833 read: "Each and every person or persons who shall hereafter
import into this state any slave or slaves, or who shall sell or buy, or contract for the sale
or purchase, for a longer term than one year, of the service of any such slave or slaves, knowing
the same to have been imported, shall forfeit and pay $600 for each slave so imported, sold,
or bought, or whose service has been so contracted for; recoverable by indictment of a grand
jury or any action of debt, in the name of the Commonwealth in any circuit court, where the
offenders may be found." Session Laws, 1833, pp. 258-261.

[314] Barre, W. L., p. 116.

[315] Niles' Register, January 23, 1841.

[316] Collins, Vol. 1, p. 83.

[317] Session Laws, 1860, Vol. 1, p. 104.

[318] Ibid., 1864, pp. 70-72.

[319] Littell's Laws, 2: 5-6.

[320] Ibid., 2: 5-6.

[321] Session Laws, 1835, pp. 82-83.

[322] Ibid., 1838, p. 158.

[323] Session Laws, 1823, p. 178.

[324] Ibid., 1831-2, pp. 54-55.

[325] Session Laws, 1838, p. 155.

[326] Ibid., 1830, pp. 173-175.

[327] Western Law Journal, 2: 232-235 (best report of the trial). Niles' Register, December
21, 1844. Webster; Delia A., Kentucky Jurisprudence, pp. 1-84.

[328] Fairbank, How the Way was Prepared, pp. 53, 57.

[329] Ibid., p. 85.

[330] Ibid., p. 103.

[331] Fairbank, pp. 144, 149.

[332] American Anti-slavery Society Report, 1839, p. 90.

[333] American Anti-slavery Society Report, 1839, pp. 93-94.

[334] Chaddock, F. E., Ohio before 1850, p. 86.

[335] McMaster, History of the United States, Vol. 7: 262-263.

[336] Senate Document No. 19, 30th Congress, 1st Session.

[337] 5 Howard's Reports, 215-232.

[338] Colton, Reed and McKinley, Works of Henry Clay, Vol. 3: 329.

[339] 24 Howard's Reports, 109-110.

[340] Littell's Laws, 2: 246-247.

[341] Session Laws, 1823, p. 563.

[342] Black vs. Meaux, 4 Dana, 189.

[343] Susan vs. Ladd, 6 Dana, 30

[344] Hopkins vs. Morgan's executor, 3 Dana, 17.

[345] Isaac et al. vs. Graves' executor, 16 Ben Monroe, 365.

[346] Rankin vs. Lydia, 2 A. K. Marshall, 467.

[347] 15 Ben Monroe, 328.

[348] 14 Ibid., 355.

[349] 12 Ibid., 542.

[350] 4 Metcalfe, 231.

[351] 11 Ben Monroe, 210.

[352] 4 Dana, 589, 7 Dana, 360.

[353] American Anti-Slavery Society Report, 1859, p. 79.

[354] Weekly Free South (Newport), March 4, 1859.

[355] American Anti-Slavery Society Report, 1860, p. 44.

CHAPTER IV

THE SOCIAL STATUS OF THE SLAVE

As many of the slave regulations were enacted to deal with extreme cases and some of them were
not generally enforced, it is necessary to consider also the social status of the blacks to
determine exactly what the institution was in Kentucky. In this commonwealth slavery was decidedly
patriarchal. The slave was not such an unfortunate creature as some have pictured him. He usually
had set apart for himself and his family a house which was located near the master's mansion.
While this home may have been a rude cabin made of small logs, with a roof covered with splits
and an earthen floor, likely as not the master's son was attending school a few weeks in the
year in a neighboring log cabin which boasted of no more luxuries than the humble slave dwelling.
The servant and his family were well fed and had plenty of domestic cloth for all necessary
wearing apparel.

The kind of clothing which the Kentucky slave had can be seen best by a study of the runaway
slave advertisements where a description of apparel was often essential to the apprehension
of the Negro. "Billy" in 1803 ran away from his owner in Lexington and took such a variety
of clothing with him that the master was unable to give a description of them.[356] "Jack,"
running away from his owner in Mercer County, had on when he left and took with him "one pale
blue jeans coat, one gray jeans coat, and an old linsey coat; one pair of cloth pantaloons,
one pair of jeans, and one of linen."[357] "Thenton," when leaving his master in Warren County,
took with him "a new black smooth fur hat, a yellow woollen jeans frock coat, more than half
worn; three shirts, two of coarse cotton and one entirely new, the third a bleached domestic
and new; one blanket; one pair of pantaloons, of cotton and flax."[358] "Jarret," from Leitchfield,
wore when he left "a smooth black Russia hat" and took with him "a pair of buckskin saddle
bags ... and a great deal of clothing, to wit: one brown jeans frock coat, and pantaloons of
the same; also, a brown jeans overcoat, with large pockets in the side; a new dark colored
overcoat, two pair blue cloth pantaloons, and an old silver watch."[359] The clothing of "Esau,"
from Meade County, was described as "brown jeans pants, black cassinet pants, blue cloth pants,
three fine shirts, one black silk vest and one green vest, one brown jeans frock coat, one
pale blue coat, velvet collar; coarse shoes and black hat."[360] "Stewart" left his master
in Bullitt County dressed in typical Negro attire--"a black luster coat, made sack fashion,
and a pair of snuff colored cassinet pantaloons; also, a black fur hat with low crown and broad
brim, and vest with purple dots on it."[361] "George," living in Marion County, had an outfit
of "Brown jeans frock coat (skirt lined with home-made flannel dyed with madder), a pair of
new black and yellow twilled negro jeans pantaloons, white socks, factory shirt with linen
bosom, and black wool hat."[362] An owner advertising in 1852 stated that his slave "Andy"
had three suits of clothes with him when he ran away.[363] It is perfectly evident from the
reading of these slave advertisements that the male Negroes were as substantially clothed as
any members of their race could expect to be at that time even in a state of freedom. The surplus
clothing as described above was all a part of the slave's own property and not taken from the
master's wardrobe. There were many cases of theft but they need not be considered in this discussion.
A large majority of all runaway slaves were men and even when advertisements dealt with female
fugitives it was only on rare occasions that the owner attempted to give a description of the
clothing which was worn. Will Morton in 1806 gave a list of "Letty's" clothing as "two or three
white muslin dresses, one of fancy chintz, salmon colored linsey petticoat, white yarn stockings,
and good shoes, with sundry other clothing of good quality."[364] At such an early date in
the history of Kentucky slavery the apparel of this young slave woman compares very favorably
with that which was worn by the white people.

In sickness the slaves were cared for by the same physician who looked after the master and
his family and should occasion demand assistance any member of the owner's household might
be found nursing a sick Negro. There was no limit to the supply of fuel for the winter, for
the slaves had the right to cut timber for their own use anywhere in the woods of the estate.[365]

As in Virginia, the slave was permitted to have a little "truck-patch" of half an acre or more,
where he could raise any crop that he desired. In Kentucky these small plots of ground were
nearly always filled with sweet potatoes, tobacco and watermelons. The soil was not only conducive
to their cultivation but they were the three favorite agricultural products for personal consumption.
These particular crops needed little cultivation once they were planted and such as was necessary
could easily be done on Saturday afternoons, when the slave was at leisure.

Historians have reminded us that in most of the Southern States there was a tendency for the
more energetic of the slaves to work for pay during their idle hours and thus eventually secure
a sufficient surplus to buy their own freedom. In Kentucky such cases were very rare. Most
Negroes seem to have been content with their condition in such bondage as existed in the State.
There were many cases in which a Negro refused to purchase his freedom although he had the
necessary amount of money. George Brown, the famous Negro author of Recollections of an Ex-slave,
published in the Winchester Democrat, has given us some experiences which testify to the feeling
existing between master and slave. In 1857 his mistress was offered $2,100 for George, but
when talking the matter over with him she found that he had serious objections to the prospective
purchaser. She showed an interest in Brown's welfare by refusing to sell him. In later years
when freedom was within his grasp for the asking, Brown "bought himself" for $1,000 because,
as he says in his own words, it was not honorable for him to "swindle his young mistress out
of her slave." Such was the example of a Kentucky slave who purchased his own freedom, not
for his own benefit, but for that of his mistress.

Another factor entered into this question. In the later years, once a slave secured his liberty,
he was immediately required to leave the State and if such a one had lived all his life in
Kentucky, he would naturally hesitate to depart into an unknown region. Many of the slaves
did earn considerable money by cobbling shoes, cutting wood, and making brooms, but most of
them showed little tendency to save their earnings for any future deliverance from bondage.
They were more concerned then--as they often are even yet--with the pleasures of the day. More
often they were to be found wasting their spare change on whisky, a problem which grew greater
for the master with passing years.

In addition to the regular Saturday afternoon and Sunday off every week the slaves were given
several other holidays throughout the year, the most extensive being at Christmas time. At
Easter they were allowed two or three days rest and when an election was being held there was
no work done outside of the regular chores. The general election day in those times was the
first Monday in August and it was the custom for most of the slaves throughout the "penny-royal"
and "bluegrass" to journey to the county seat, where they would all congregate and have a general
frolic in accordance with Negro standards of a good time. In the later years of slavery the
towns had established sufficient control of the Negroes gathering in their jurisdiction so
that the drink evil was more or less mitigated. The fear of the law was a great incentive to
their proper conduct on those rare occasions when they had a whole day in town to themselves
without any tasks to perform for their master. As Rothert has well observed, however, the slave
sometimes did have to care for his drunken owner and take him home. To the student acquainted
with Kentucky history and social conditions such a brief statement suggests a wealth of material
on the local type of slavery.

That ardent abolitionist from across the sea, James Silk Buckingham, has recorded a characteristic
picture of the Kentucky slave at rest and in gala attire:

     "We remained at Henderson the greater part of the day, it being a
     holiday with the negro slaves on the estate, so that it was
     difficult to get the requisite number of hands to complete the
     landing in a short time. Some of the female slaves were very
     gaily dressed, and many of them in good taste, with white muslin
     gowns, blue and pink waists, ribbons, silk handkerchiefs or
     scarfs, straw bonnets, and a reticule for the pocket handkerchief
     held on the arm. In talking with them, and inquiring the reason
     of the holiday, one said she believed it was Easter, another said
     it was Whitsuntide, and a third thought it was midsummer. They
     were chiefly the household slaves, who are always better treated,
     better dressed, and more indulgent than the field laborers. The
     men who were employed in landing the cargo appeared to be more
     cheerful in their general aspect and behavior than the field
     slaves I have seen at the South: and there is no doubt that in
     Kentucky their condition is very much better than in most other
     states, their work lighter, their food and clothing better, and
     their treatment more kind and humane."[366]

Legally, there were no marriages among the slaves. They were not citizens, but property. The
men were urged to take their "wives" from among the women of the home estate, if a suitable
companion could be found. But if not they eventually secured one in the neighborhood and the
master usually allowed the slave a pass to see his wife every night in the week. While such
a cohabitation was not exactly a legal affair most of them were held as sacred as those more
legalized unions among the master class. Many masters paid an unconscious tribute to these
unions. When there ran away a slave who had a wife living in the neighborhood or even at a
great distance the owner would make mention of the exact locality of the wife in order that
people in that region would be on the lookout for the fugitive. J. C. Bucklin in 1824 did not
give much of a description of David, who had left his master, but he very carefully stated
that he had a "wife and children at William Shirley's, about 16 miles from this place, on the
Westport Road."[367] An owner in Fayette county after giving a detailed picture of "Arthur"
added that "Capt. Peter Poindexter, eight miles from Lexington owns his wife, and I expect
that he will be in that neighborhood."[368] A more extreme example was that of "Dick," a Lexington
slave who ran away to New Orleans, the owner thought, because "he has a wife living in that
city, and he has been heard to say frequently that he was determined to go to New Orleans."[369]
Such cases as this were the logical consequence of the slavery system. They existed in Kentucky
just as in any other slave State, but they were few compared with those slaves unions that
were never broken.

It was to the economic as well as humanitarian interest of the master to have sympathy with
the peace and contentment of his servant. Thus most of them took care that the family relationships
of the slaves should not be disturbed. Oftentimes when the owner of either a husband or a wife
was on the point of moving out of the county the masters would get together and make a trade
which would obviate any disruption of the slave family. Under such conditions a man would part
with a servant who otherwise could not have been bought at any price. Such a situation was
possible only in a State where the personal interest in a slave and his welfare took precedence
over merely his economic value to the owner.[370]

Charles Stewart in My Life as a Slave has given us his own experiences of home life and marriage
among slaves in Kentucky. He lived in Paris and was engaged in handling race horses. Soon after
coming from Virginia to Kentucky he fell in love with a young mulatto girl, who was the property
of a Mr. Robertson, who gave his consent to their marriage, promising never to part them by
his own free will. In his own dialect Stewart dictated his story. "So I married her, an' tuk
her to a little house I had fixed up near de stables, an' she clear-starched an' sewed an'
broidered an' wukked wid de hand-loom, an' made more pretty things dan I could count. She paid
her marster, en course, reg'lar, so much a month fur her hire, but, lor', she neber touched
her airnin's fur dat. I had plenty of money to hire as many wives as I wanted, but dis one
was de onliest one I eber did want, an' so it was easy enough." After two years his wife became
very sick and died and the grief of the Negro man was touching in the extreme. "She was jes'
as fond o' me as I was of her, an' it did 'pear hard luck to lose her jes' as I was makin'
up my mind to buy her out and out, only en course, it was a fortunate thing I hadn't bought
her, as long as she had to die, kase den I would ha' lost her an' de money too. Arter she was
in de ground it jes' 'peared to me like eberything was different; I tuk a dislikement to Paris,
an' I didn't feel like goin' home to Virginny." His master agreed to let him go wherever he
liked if he could find an owner to suit him and finally Stewart went to Louisiana after an
interview with Senator Porter of that State. He was to stay six months to see how he liked
it and then if agreeable he was to stay there. He must have been a rather unusual Negro, for
his selling price was finally fixed at $3,500.[371]

But life among the slaves of Kentucky was not by any means a path of roses. Many anti-slavery
leaders attested to this fact. The most trustworthy statement that was ever made on this general
subject was that embodied in the pamphlet of the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky in 1835 advocating
gradual emancipation. The following brief extracts are most significant:

     "The system produces general licentiousness among the slaves.
     Marriage, as a civil ordinance, they cannot enjoy. Until slavery
     waxeth old, and tendeth to decay, there cannot be any legal
     recognition of the marriage rite, or the enforcement of its
     consequent duties. For, all the regulations on this subject would
     limit the master's absolute right of property in the slaves. In
     his disposal of them he could no longer be at liberty to consult
     merely his own interest ... their present quasi-marriages are
     continually voided (at the master's pleasure).... They are in
     this way brought to consider their matrimonial alliances as
     things not binding, and act accordingly. We are then assured by
     the most unquestionable testimony that licentiousness is the
     necessary result of our system."

One would infer from this observation of apparently fair-minded men that slave unions were
not very sacred affairs and that any disruption of them would amount to little, but in the
same document these Presbyterian preachers give a back-handed compliment to the stability,
at least in temperament, of the average slave marriage.

It is strange that these two opposing views should appear in the same pamphlet, but nevertheless
they are both undoubtedly true pictures of slavery in Kentucky. It is merely a question as
to which of the two represented the majority of cases. Licentiousness there was, but it was
certainly very much less among the slaves of Kentucky than in the far South. Slave unions were
treated with more respect by the masters of Kentucky than in most slave States. As has been
pointed out in a previous chapter, the very fact that the few instances of inhuman separation
of slave families produced such a storm of public disapproval shows that it was not a very
general practice in the State.

From the legal standpoint the slave had no rights or privileges in the attainment of even a
meager education. On the other hand Kentucky was the only slave State, with the exception of
Maryland and Tennessee, which never passed any laws forbidding the instruction of slaves. Thus
no penalty was attached to Negro education, neither was any encouragement given. Those slaves
who learned to read were the servants of masters who because of conscientious scruples taught
them how to read the Bible. Few slaves ever learned to write, for they might then be tempted
to serve as unofficial dispensers of passes in the owner's name. The general objection to any
reasonable amount of education was the tendency towards dissatisfaction with the servile status
thereby aroused. If the slave could learn to read well, it was feared that he would become
a victim of the "filthy" abolitionist literature, which through the resultant effect upon the
Negroes would have produced no end of trouble to the slavery system. Hence, for the most part,
the Kentucky slave remained in blissful ignorance, and well for him as such and the institution
he represented that his learning was no greater.[372]

Out of a collection of some three hundred and fifty runaway slave advertisements concerning
Kentucky slaves the author has found 71 cases in which mention was made that the Negro could
read and 37 instances in which he could write. The latter cases are all included in the former
classification also. On that basis a little over ten per cent of the slaves could read and
write and about twenty per cent could read but were unable to write. There are, however, two
strong reasons against any such general conclusion. In the first place, the more a slave learned
the more liable he was to become dissatisfied and run away; and secondly, the careful mention
which was made in advertisements of the Negro's ability to read or write would tend to show
that it was more or less an unusual accomplishment.

Taking up the question of the education of slaves in the State, the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky
said in 1834 that "Slavery dooms thousands of human beings to hopeless ignorance ... if slaves
are educated it must involve some outlay upon the part of the master.... It is inconsistent
with our knowledge of human nature to suppose that he will do this for them. The present state
of instruction among this race remains exactly what we might ... naturally anticipate. Throughout
the whole land (State), so far as we can learn, there is but one school in which, during the
week, slaves can be taught. The light of three or four Sabbath schools is seen glimmering through
the darkness that covers the black population of the whole State. Here and there a family is
found where humanity and religion impel the master, mistress or children to the laborious task
of private instruction."[373]

It should be added in this connection that the same statement would hold true of the free Negro
population of Kentucky at the same period. Until long after the Civil War there was no provision
made for their education other than that of individual enterprise. The public education of
the whites was not on a plane comparable to that of any of the Northern States until after
the reconstruction period, and even then Kentucky lagged behind for years.

The church and its influence for the betterment of society under the slavery system was more
effective than the school. The chief religious paper of the State was the Presbyterian Herald
and one of its most persistent pleas was that the proper religious instruction of the Negro
servant class would answer most of the objections to the institution. "The most formidable
weapon in the hands of the abolitionist," said the editor, "is the indifference which he charges
to the Christian slaveholder toward the spiritual welfare of the slave under his control. Disarm
him of this weapon, and you have done much to render him powerless."[374]

Religious instruction in families of Christian habits of life, however, was not so sadly neglected.
The household servants were usually brought to the house during the family worship and the
scriptures were not merely read to them but explained. No restrictions were ever placed on
church attendance either by law or by custom. Many slaves united with the white churches and
throughout the State today one may find any number of old churches whose records still show
several of these Negroes on the church rolls. Most of them are very kindly remembered for their
good moral character and abiding faith. Such a condition was not so prevalent among the agricultural
slaves, except where they were few in numbers. Even here, however, the religious instinct was
not suppressed in any manner. Their religion at the most was a very crude imitation of the
worship of their masters. They were not confined to the rear seats of the white churches for
their attendance at Sunday services. They could hold their own meetings in schoolhouses and
vacant church edifices.

It was these distinctively slave gatherings that gave rise to one of the most interesting of
all Negro characters--the preacher. Tradition and story have related many a charming picture
of this quaint representative of Negro faith, but unfortunately few life stories of any of
them have ever been preserved. In nearly all the county histories we find mention of several
of these Negro exhorters who seemingly were men of some degree of intelligence. The majority
of them were apparently themselves slaves, subject to the will of their masters, and while
the restrictions on their movements were very lax, they seldom if ever spoke beyond the borders
of their home county.[375]

One of the famous Negro preachers of the early nineteenth-century South was Josiah Henson.
From 1825 to 1828 he was a slave in Daviess County, Kentucky, and in his autobiography he has
given us a picture of the circumstances under which he became a slave preacher. "In Kentucky,"
said he, "the opportunities of attending on the preaching of whites, as well as of blacks,
were more numerous; and partly attended by them, and the campmeetings which occurred from time
to time, and partly from studying carefully my own heart, and observing the developments of
character around me, in all the stations of life which I could watch, I became better acquainted
with those religious feelings which are deeply implanted in the breast of every human being,
and learnt by practice how best to arouse them, and keep them excited, and in general to produce
some good religious impressions on the ignorant and thoughtless community by which I was surrounded....
I cannot but derive some satisfaction, too, from the proofs I have had that my services have
been acceptable to those to whom they have been rendered. In the course of the three years
from 1825 to 1828 I availed myself of all the opportunities of improvement which occurred and
was admitted as a preacher by a conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church."[376]

In Ballard County there was another interesting exhorter. Advertising for his Negro Jack who
had run away in 1850, C. B. Young pointed out that although he was a slave and the property
of the "subscriber" he was a well-educated Baptist preacher and in the pursuit of his vocation
he was well known by "many of the citizens of Paducah, McCracken County, and also by citizens
of Hickman and Fulton Counties, and is thought by many to be a free man."[377]

The only credentials which the Negro preacher carried, according to his own testimony, came
directly from the Lord. His education was only of a sufficient character to enable him to read
the Bible and line out the words of the hymns. His creed was never the creation of any school
of theology. It was usually an original interpretation of supernatural phenomena varying widely
even in one individual from time to time. Convinced of his supernatural calling, he felt inferior
to no one in the power of exegesis. As long as he held his balance and remained on terra firma
his followers believed in him as he believed in himself. But as Lucius Little has well said:
"Once in a while a colored preacher lost his influence with his congregation by drinking too
deeply of the Pierian spring. Too much learning raised him out of their orbit. They fell on
stony ground." Strange, yet how true, that the more ignorant a slave minister was, the more
power of influence for good he had among his fellow human beings.[378]

James Lane Allen has given us a splendid little sketch of three of these native characters
whom he evidently knew in his younger days:

     "One of these negro preachers was allowed by his master to fill a
     distant appointment. Belated once, and returning home after the
     hour forbidden for slaves to be abroad, he was caught by the
     patrol and cruelly whipped. As the blows fell, his words were,
     'Jesus Christ suffered for righteousness' sake; so kin I."

     Another was recommended for deacon's orders and actually
     ordained. When liberty came, he refused to be free, and continued
     to work in his master's family until his death. With considerable
     knowledge of the Bible and a fluent tongue, he would nevertheless
     sometimes grow confused while preaching and lose his train of
     thought. At these embarrassing junctures it was his wont suddenly
     to call out at the top of his voice, "Saul, Saul. Why persecutest
     thou me?" The effect upon his hearers was electrifying:--as none
     but a very highly favored being could be thought worthy of
     enjoying this persecution. He thus converted his loss of mind
     into spiritual reputation.

     A third named Peter Cotton, united the vocations of exhorter and
     wood-chopper. He united them literally, for one moment Peter
     might be seen standing on his log chopping away, and the next
     kneeling down beside it praying. He got his mistress to make him
     a long jeans coat and on the ample tails of it to embroider, by
     his direction, sundry texts of scripture, such as "Come unto Me,
     all ye that are heavy laden." Thus literally clothed with
     righteousness, Peter went from cabin to cabin, preaching the
     Word. Well for him if that other Peter could have seen him."[379]

One of the dominant features of such a type of religion among the Negroes was the resulting
prevalence of superstition. It almost seems that in their ignorance they adopted every form
of supernatural fear that was ever known among our ancestors. But if it had ended there the
matter would not have been so important socially. In their constant association with white
children they brought their fears of "ghost-hauntings" and other fantastic ideas into the minds
of the very young. The peculiarity of the Negro slave as compared with the other superstitious
races was his own sinister imaginative productions. They related none of the valuable tales
of ancient mythology, but rather did they fill the earth with goblins, witches and ghosts--the
result of their own dreams and fancies.[380]

The many stories of this sort which a "mammy" related to a child a half century ago can be
reproduced by the old man of the twentieth century and the effect of the old ideas of magic
is still with him. The prevalence of superstitious ideas in Kentucky today might easily be
traced back to the associations of slavery times. But such a weakness may not always have done
harm; not every child was so influenced. The natural play of the Negro instinct was worth much
to his peace and contentment. Here again Shaler has given us a rather unique observation from
his own experience:

     "The only movements of the spirit in the religious field that I
     can remember came from two sources: my mother's singing.... The
     other spiritual influence came from the negroes. A number of them
     used to meet at night to talk religion beneath a shed which lay
     open to the northern sky. One of them, well named "Old Daniel,"
     had a fervid imagination and excellent descriptive powers. He
     would picture the coming of the great angel as if it were before
     his eyes; the path of light shooting down from about the North
     star,--the majesty of his train. Then the rolling of the heavens
     "like a scroll"--I did not know what this process was like, but
     it seemed vaguely fine--and then the burning up of the world. I
     was always greatly moved when hearing these exhortations which
     must indeed have been rather wonderful things, but they made no
     permanent impression upon me. In fact I regarded them as 'nigger
     talk.'"[381]

The patriarchal character of slavery as it existed in Kentucky is best shown in the relationship
which generally existed between the master and his slave. The pioneers who brought their slaves
with them from Virginia encountered many dangers not only in crossing the mountains but after
they had settled in the new State. Many were the times when the slave proved himself a hero
and even encountered death in order to protect the master and his family. Tradition and history
have handed down many of these stories to us, but the most famous of all, as well as the best
authenticated, was the experience of Monk Estill, who was the slave of Colonel James Estill,
of Madison County. In a struggle with the Indians in 1782 in the region where Mount Sterling
is now located Monk cried out to his master in the thick of the fray: "Don't give way, Marse
Jim; there's only twenty-five of the Injuns and you can whip them." Colonel Estill was killed
and Monk was taken prisoner but he soon managed to escape, and after joining his comrades carried
one of the wounded men twenty-five miles. The young master was so grateful to Monk that he
gave him his freedom and kept him in the best of comfort the rest of his life. This was the
experience of what is supposed to have been the first slave in the district of Kentucky.[382]

Not only was the slave on a par with his master when it came to facing dangers but even in
the field of sports he had as pleasant an outing as his overlord. While the one may have spent
the day in fox hunting or deer driving, when nightfall came the Negro was apt to emerge from
his quarters followed by his faithful dog in search of possum or coon. While the master may
have enjoyed a feast of venison at his table the Negro was just as well satisfied with the
less valuable but savory game that graced his own meal.

With the exception of the house servants most of the slaves of the State were employed in agricultural
pursuits, but, as we have seen elsewhere, even here they were not to be found in large droves
as in the States of the South. There were only a few big landed estates which were cultivated
by the owners under their own supervision and in the large majority of cases the field slaves
worked side by side with the whites. Often an owner's circumstances compelled him to labor
in the fields with his slaves and when doing so he rarely demanded more of them than he did
himself. Such a condition was not only true in the early days when there were few slaves but
it extended throughout the slavery era.[383] The stories of the mildness of the institution
in Kentucky which reached the North were little accredited by the radical element, which could
never see any virtue in servile labor. Perhaps the most zealous abolitionist who visited the
State was J. W. Buckingham, who wrote in 1840 that the "condition of the Negroes, as to food,
clothing, and light labor struck me as being better in Kentucky than in any other State."[384]
While traveling in the heart of the slave section of the State between Frankfort and Louisville
he saw many instances of black and white laborers, slave and free, working side by side in
the same field.[385]

The relation between the owner and the household type of slave was of a more intimate nature
and the master was careful to pick only the best of the Negroes. In such an environment we
see the picture of the Kentucky gentleman of song and story, and the Negro in all the best
that tradition has related of him. The latter became identified with the family of the master
in sentiment and feeling. Under ordinary circumstances he had nothing to worry about, and with
no cares pressing upon him, he became as happy as any Negro ever was. If the crops failed,
or the owner became bankrupt he had none of the anxiety of his master, although he may have
displayed the greatest sympathy with the existing condition. It was his duty to give only his
labor to his master and in return he was sheltered, clothed and supported when sick or too
old to labor; and at last when his earthly toils were over, he was given a Christian burial.
The humble affection which the slave had for his master in conjunction with the extreme confidence
which he held for the outcome of all pecuniary troubles is shown by instances in the life history
of every slaveholding family. No matter what might be the circumstances and conditions of the
estate the slave could go on in his daily work without any fears or cares, except for the one
great cloud that in the event of a disruption of the estate through a legal process he might
be sold to satisfy his master's creditors.

From our present viewpoint the treatment may have been at times rather harsh but we must be
careful to judge it from the general standard of those times. It has been pointed out that
it would bear "favorable comparison with the treatment of the white sailors in the British
and American navies of the same period."[386] The slave code allowed a much severer policy
than was generally carried out, for it must be considered that the law was made to fit the
worst cases, where such action was justifiable. Often the attitude of the master appeared harsher
than it was really meant to be. It may have been merely a display of authority on his part
when he reprimanded a servant who had really committed only a minor indiscretion.[387]

There were naturally other scenes in which the treatment of slaves would not appear in such
a favorable light. The chronically bad master, however, was at all times and under all circumstances
under the ban of a just public sentiment. Should, by chance, a slave under such a one secure
vengeance on his heartless overlord, the general feeling of the community was on the side of
the slave. Strange to say, it was very often true that persons who had known little concerning
slavery until they came to Kentucky, as soon as they had accumulated a sufficient surplus,
became the owners of slaves and proved to be the hardest taskmasters.[388] Much light is thrown
on this situation by Shaler. "There is a common opinion," said he, "that the slaves of the
Southern households were subjected in various ways to brutal treatment. Such, in my experience,
was not the case. Though the custom of using the whip on white children was common enough,
I never saw a negro deliberately punished in that way until 1862, when, in military service,
I stayed at night at the house of a friend. This old man, long a widower, had recently married
a woman from the state of Maine, who had been the governess of his children. In the early morning
I heard a tumult in the back yard, and on looking out saw a negro man, his arms tied up to
a limb of a tree, while the vigorous matron was administering on his back with a cowhide whip.
At breakfast I learned that the man had well deserved the flogging, but it struck me as curious
that in the only instance of the kind that I had known the punishment was from the hands of
a Northern woman."[389] Shaler lived in Campbell County in the extreme northern section of
the State, where there were only a few slaves and the treatment was milder perhaps than in
any other part of Kentucky.

The general attitude is best shown by the two laws passed in 1816 and 1830. It had always been
considered that the slave, being the property of his owner, it remained for him and for him
alone to serve as the disciplinarian of the Negro. The increasing abuse of this right by outsiders
led to a law in 1815 giving the owners a power of action against persons abusing their slaves,
and in February, 1816, the provisions were made more specific. If any person should "whip,
strike or otherwise abuse the slave of another" without the owner's consent, the latter could
recover damages in any circuit court in the commonwealth--regardless of whether or not the
punishment so inflicted injured the ability of the slave to render service to his master.[390]

Some of the contemporary comment would seem to imply that the theory of the law was based on
the property conception of the slave and not upon humanitarian motives. In other words, it
was perfectly proper to punish any slave as one saw fit as long as one did not interfere with
the property value of the servant. Fearon, while visiting the State in 1818, came across an
example of this kind and after telling the story of the punishment makes this comment: "It
appears that this boy (the one who had been whipped) was the property of a regular slave-dealer,
who was then absent at Natchez with a cargo. Mr. Lawe's humanity fell lamentably in my estimation
when he stated, that 'whipping niggers, if they were his own, was perfectly right, and they
perhaps deserved it; but what made him mad was, that the boy was left under his care by a friend,
and he did not like to have a friend's property injured.'"[391] The conduct observed by Fearon
was clearly in violation of the law of 1816, unless the absent master had given over his rights
in full to the man Lawe, who administered the punishment. It may have been the spirit of the
laws of Kentucky that Lawe had in mind when he spoke to Fearon. On the other hand, it could
easily be given the interpretation which Fearon made. The trend of public opinion was more
and more in the interest of justice for the slave as the law of 1830 shows:

     If any owner of a slave shall treat such slave cruelly, so as in
     the opinion of the jury, to endanger the life or limb of such
     slave, or shall not supply his slave with sufficient food or
     raiment, it shall and may be lawful for any person acquainted
     with the fact or facts, to state and set forth in a petition to
     the Circuit Court, the facts, or any of them aforesaid, of which
     the defendant hath been guilty, and pray that such slave or
     slaves may be taken from the possession of the owner, and sold
     for the benefit of such owner, agreeably to the 7th article of
     the Constitution.[392]

In accordance with this law, if a jury of twelve men were convinced that a master treated his
slave cruelly, or failed to provide him the proper food and clothing, the slave would be sold
into better hands and the master would have to pay the costs of the suit. Most assuredly there
was no place in the eyes of the law for an inhuman slaveholder. Not only was such a one a criminal
in the eyes of the courts but he was socially ostracized in the ordinary circles of the community.[393]

Two instances of this kind in Lexington will show the public feeling. In 1837 Mrs. Turner,
the wife of a wealthy Lexington judge, was accused of inhuman cruelty. Her own husband was
the chief complainant, stating that "that woman has been the cause of the death of six of my
servants by her severities." The trial caused intense excitement among the people of Lexington,
more so perhaps for the reason that the defendant was a member of a prominent Boston family
and her husband was a former judge of the criminal court in New Orleans. The court proceedings
were brought to an end when the woman was pronounced insane and placed in the asylum.[394]

Early in 1839 a Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell were tried in Lexington for the inhuman treatment of a
female slave servant. The indignation of the citizens of Lexington is apparent from the publicity
that was given to the proceedings in the local papers. A Dr. Constant testified that he saw
Mrs. Maxwell whipping the Negro severely, without being particular whether she struck her in
the face or not. The lacerations had brought blood in considerable quantities for he had found
some on the steps. He had noticed previously that the slave had been thinly clad and was barefooted
even in cold weather. During the previous months he had noticed several scars on her and at
one time she had had one eye tied up for a week. A Mr. Winters was once passing along the street
and saw one of the boys whipping the slave girl with a cowhide. Capt. Porter, the keeper of
the workhouse, thought the injuries on Milly's person were very bad, some of them appeared
to be burns, and some were bruises or stripes from a cowhide whip. The trial was held amidst
a turmoil of resentment against the defendants and there was apparently no one in sympathy
with them whatever.[395]

Any discussion of the relationships in slavery times would be incomplete without adding the
characterisation of the Kentucky master as drawn by a celebrated author who was born in the
heart of the bluegrass and was thoroughly familiar with the type:

     "The good in nature is irrepressible. Slavery, evil as it was,
     when looked at from the remoteness of human history as it is to
     be, will be judged an institution that gave development to a
     certain noble type of character.

     "Along with other social forces peculiar to the age, it produced
     in Kentucky a kind of farmer the like of which will never appear
     again. He had the aristocratic virtues: highest notions of
     personal liberty and personal honor, a fine especial scorn of
     anything that was little, mean, cowardly. As an agriculturist he
     was not driving or merciless or grasping; the rapid amassing of
     wealth was not among his passions, the contention of splendid
     living not among his thorns. To a certain carelessness of riches
     he added a certain profuseness of expenditure; and indulgent
     towards his own pleasures, towards others, his equals or
     dependents, he bore himself with a spirit of kindness and
     magnanimity. Intolerant of tyranny, he was no tyrant. To say of
     such a man, as Jefferson said of every slave-holder, that he
     lived in the perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions
     and unremitting despotism, and in the exaction of the most
     degrading submission, was to pronounce judgment hasty and unfair.

[357] Louisville Public Advertiser, July 10, 1824.

[358] Louisville Weekly Journal, October 15, 1845.

[359] Ibid., October 22, 1845.

[360] Ibid., September 27, 1848.

[361] Ibid., May 16, 1849.

[362] Ibid., December 10, 1851.

[363] Ibid., December 22, 1852.

[364] Lexington Gazette, April 12, 1806.

[365] The best contemporary treatment of this subject in general is by Dr. R. J. Spurr--the
sole printed text being in Perrin's History of Bourbon County, pp. 59-60.

[366] Buckingham, Eastern and Western States, Vol. 3: 41.

[367] Louisville Public Advertiser, August 11, 1824.

[368] Lexington Gazette, June 14, 1803.

[369] Lexington Intelligencer, July 7, 1838.

[370] Perrin (Bourbon County), p. 60.

[371] Harper's Magazine, October, 1884, pp. 730-738.

[372] Clarke, Sufferings of Lewis and Milton Clarke, p. 104. Rothert, History of Muhlenburg
County, p. 104. Perrin (Bourbon County), p. 60.

[373] Address to the People of Kentucky, p. 8.

[374] Presbyterian Herald, April 16, 1846. See especially the editorial and articles in the
issue of October 4, 1849.

[375] Rothert, History of Muhlenburg County, p. 340.

[376] Henson, Life of Josiah Henson, pp. 26-27.

[377] Louisville Weekly Journal, March 27, 1850.

[378] Little, L. P., Ben Hardin, his Times and Contemporaries, pp. 544-545.

[379] Allen, James Lane, Blue Grass Region of Kentucky, pp. 77-78.

[380] Robertson's Autobiography, pp. 124-125.

[381] Shaler's Autobiography, pp. 57-58.

[382] Collins, History of Kentucky, Vol. 2, pp. 634-636.

[383] Cotterill, History of Pioneer Kentucky, p. 245. Little, L. P., Ben Hardin, his Times
and Contemporaries, p. 543.

[384] Buckingham, Eastern and Western States, Vol. 3: 7-8.

[385] Op. cit., Vol. 3: 8.

[386] Little, L. P., Ben Hardin, his Times and Contemporaries, pp. 541-2.

[387] A typical example of this has been related by one of Kentucky's distinguished sons:

"In the households where I was intimate the slaves were about on the same footing as the other
members of the family; they were subjected to sudden explosions of the master's temper much
as were his children. I well remember a frequent scene in my grandfather's house, where it
was the custom that I should go every Sunday afternoon for counsel and instruction. They were
at first somewhat fearsome occasions for a little lad thus to be alone with an aged and stately
grandfather. I soon won his interest, in some measure by my fears, and came greatly to enjoy
the intercourse, for he knew how to talk to a boy, and we became, in a way, boys together,
in our sense of the funny side of things. It was the custom, too, for him to divide the session
of three or four hours with a brief nap taken in his chair....

"As his rooms were near the negro quarter he would make ready for his siesta by sending forth
the servantman who waited on him, bidding him tell the people that they were to keep quiet
during the performance. I can see him now with his pig-tail hanging down behind the back of
the easy chair and a handkerchief over his face as he courted slumber. For a minute or two
it would be still, then the hidden varlets would be as noisy as before. Then the pig-tail would
begin to twitch, and he would mutter: 'Jim, tell those people they must be still.' Again a
minute of quiet, and once more the jabbering and shouting. Now with a leap he would clutch
his long walking-stick and charge the crowd in the quarter, laying about him with amazing nimbleness,
until all the offenders were run to their holes. Back he would come from his excursion and
settle himself to sleep. I could see that his rage was merely on the surface and that he had
used it for a corrective, for he evidently took care not to hurt anyone." Shaler's Autobiography,
p. 37.

[388] Little, L. P., Ben Hardin, his Times and Contemporaries, p. 543.

[389] Shaler's Autobiography, pp. 36-37.

[390] Littell's Laws, Vol. 5: 578-579.

[391] Fearon, Sketches in America, p. 241.

[392] Session Laws, 1830, p. 174.

[393] Blanchard and Rice, Debate on Slavery, p. 135.

[394] American Slavery As It Is, p. 87.

[395] Lexington Reporter, January 15, 1809.

CHAPTER V

PUBLIC OPINION REGARDING EMANCIPATION AND COLONIZATION

Although the facts herein set forth indicate that slavery in Kentucky was a comparatively mild
form of servitude it is not the aim here to leave the impression that the anti-slavery element
found no grounds for attacking the institution. On the contrary, there were various elements
that devised schemes for exterminating the institution. This was especially true of the churches,
which represented more than any other one force the sentiment of the State on the subject of
emancipation. The three prominent Protestant denominations of the State were the Presbyterians,
the Baptists, and the Methodists. The only one of the three which maintained a general continuous
policy throughout the early nineteenth century on the question of slavery was the Presbyterian.

It was on the eve of the first Constitutional Convention of 1792 that David Rice, at that time
the leader of the Presbyterians in Kentucky, published a pamphlet under the nom-de-plume of
PHILANTHROPOS entitled Slavery Inconsistent with Justice and Good Policy. While the author
went into the general evils of slavery, such as the lack of protection to female chastity,
lack of religious and moral instruction, and the comparative unproductiveness of slave labor,
he was not one of those violent opponents of the institution, who would abolish the whole system
without any constructive measures. A large part of his treatise was devoted to the supposed
sanction of the scriptures and his own evidence that the same source was against rather than
in favor of the system then in vogue. It was but natural that Rice should recommend that the
convention should put an end to slavery in Kentucky in view of his firm opinions in the matter,
but he had a clear vision of the future and he expressed his conviction that "a gradual emancipation
only can be advisable." He summed up his ideas in this sentence: "The legislature, if they
judged it expedient, would prevent the importation of any more slaves; they would enact that
all born after such a date should be free; be qualified by proper education to make useful
citizens, and be actually freed at a proper age."[397] He put these ideas forth as a citizen
of Kentucky who was interested in its welfare and as a prospective member of the constitutional
convention. When that body assembled at Danville he did not hesitate to voice his views again
but the forces of slavery were dominant and the majority enacted the famous article IX, which
determined the slave code of the State until the institution was abolished by the 13th amendment
to the federal constitution. The significance of the attitude of David Rice lies in the fact
that as early as the year 1792 he put forth the idea of gradual emancipation, a policy far
in advance of his age but which in the course of time was held by a large number of the fair-minded
statesmen of Kentucky.

In 1794 the Transylvania Presbytery, which was the governing body of that sect at that time
for the whole State, passed a resolution asking that slaves should be instructed to read the
Bible, having in view the sole idea that when freedom did come to them they would be prepared
for it.[398] The same body in 1796 expressed the following fair-minded attitude in the form
of a resolution:

     Although the Presbytery are fully convinced of the great evil of
     slavery, yet they view the final remedy as alone belonging to the
     civil powers; and also do not think that they have sufficient
     authority from the word of God to make it a term of Christian
     communion. They, therefore, leave it to the consciences of the
     brethren to act as they may think proper; earnestly recommending
     to the people under their care to emancipate such of their slaves
     as they may think fit subjects of liberty; and that they also
     take every possible measure, by teaching their young slaves to
     read and give them such other instruction as may be in their
     power, to prepare them for the enjoyment of liberty, an event
     which they contemplate with the greatest pleasure, and which,
     they hope, will be accomplished as soon as the nature of things
     will admit.[399]

In the year 1797 the same organization decided that slavery was a moral evil but on the question
of whether those persons holding slaves were guilty of a moral evil they decided in the negative.
As to what persons were guilty they were unable to decide and the matter was postponed for
future action.[400]

As early as 1800 the West Lexington Presbytery pointed to the trouble and division which slavery
was likely to cause among the churches, but they were unable to come to any decision upon the
exclusion of slaveholding members from church privileges and in a letter to the Synod of Virginia
they asked for the judgment of higher ecclesiastical authorities.[401] In 1802 the same body
decided on a policy of non-interference with the rights of the slaveholding members of the
church.[402]

Beginning in 1823 the Synod of Kentucky advocated the cause of the American Colonization Society.
Their general attitude on the slavery question was an open one as late as the year 1833 when
they adopted a resolution to the effect that "inasmuch as in the judgment of the Synod it is
inexpedient to come to any decision on the very difficult and delicate question of slavery
as it is within our bounds; therefore, resolved, that the whole matter be indefinitely postponed."[403]
The vote on this resolution stood 41 to 36. Many editions of this work were published throughout
the country even as late as 1862 when it was issued by the United Presbyterian Board of Publication
in Pittsburgh. It was heralded throughout the northern section of the United States as a very
able document and was regarded all the more valuable because it was published in a slaveholding
State. The major portion of the pamphlet was taken up with the general arguments setting forth
the evils of the slavery system but in the last few pages they set down their plan for the
gradual emancipation of the slaves in Kentucky--the most able contribution towards a reconstruction
of the existing social system in the State which had been made up to that time.

"The plan, then, which we propose is, for the master to retain during a limited period, and
with regard to the welfare of the slave, that authority which he before held, in perpetuity,
and solely for his own interest. Let the full liberty of the slave be secured against all contingencies,
by a recorded deed of emancipation, to take effect at a specified time. In the meanwhile, let
the servant be treated with kindness--let all those things which degrade him be removed--let
him enjoy means of instruction, let his moral and religious improvement be sought--let his
prospects be presented before him, to stimulate him to acquire those habits of foresight, economy,
industry, activity, skill and integrity, which will fit him for using well the liberty he is
soon to enjoy." The actual plan of potential freedom was stated briefly in these words: "(1)
We would recommend that all slaves now under 20 years of age, and all those yet to be born
in our possession, be emancipated as they severally reach their 25th year. (2) We recommend
that deeds of emancipation be drawn up, and recorded in our respective county courts, specifying
the slaves whom we are about to emancipate, and the age at which each is to be free. (3) We
recommend that our slaves be instructed in the common elementary branches of education. (4)
We recommend that strenuous and persevering efforts be made to induce them to attend upon the
ordinary services of religion, both domestic and public. (5) We recommend that great pains
be taken to teach them the Holy Scriptures; and that, to effect this the instrumentality of
Sabbath Schools, wherever they can be enjoyed, be united with that of domestic instruction."[405]

This appeal was not to the officials of the State but to the members of a particular religious
body by its governing organization. The success or failure of the plan depended entirely upon
the individual slaveholder's attitude in the matter. The committee added this sentence by way
of explanation: "These are measures which all ought to adopt; and we know of no peculiarity
of circumstances in the case of any individual which can free him from culpability if he neglects
them."[406]

The sentiments embodied in this appeal were not, however, any indication of the feeling among
the slaveholding Presbyterians of the State nor were they expressive of the Synod itself, for
that body never took any action upon the address, it being the work of the committee of ten
entirely.[407] Davidson, writing in 1847, made the following comment on the sentiment of the
church people in Kentucky at that time. "In the morbid and feverish state of the public mind,
it is not to be concealed, that by some they (the Committee) were considered as going to an
unwarrantable and imprudent length. The northern abolitionists were waging a hot crusade against
slavery, sending out itinerant lecturers, and loading the mails with inflammatory publications.
Their measures were marked with a fanatical virulence rarely exhibited, and the people were
exasperated beyond forbearance ... the effects were truly disastrous. The prospect of emancipation
was retarded for years. The laws bearing on the slave population were made more stringent than
ever, and their privileges were curtailed. In Kentucky, the religious meetings of the blacks
were broken up or interrupted and their Sabbath schools dispersed."[408]

When the subject of emancipation was under discussion in the Kentucky Synod one of the elders
arose and stated that he owned one hundred slaves, nearly all of whom he had inherited. Many
of them were so old that they could not provide for themselves, others were women and children
whom no one was willing to feed and clothe for their labor. He stated emphatically that he
had no desire to hold them in bondage, but that he was willing to do whatever was best for
the slaves themselves. If he should free them, what would become of the aged and the women
and children? Furthermore, it was a serious matter to give bond and security for the support
of so many slaves of different ages and character. He could not send them out of the State,
for they were intermarried with the slaves of others; and as to giving them wages, he could
not, for they were eating him up as it was. With a feeling of intense interest in the slave
and anxiety on his own behalf to do the right, he asked his brethren of the Synod, what he
ought to do.[409] The position of this kind-hearted Kentucky slaveholder shows more clearly
than any other picture we could draw the difficulties of emancipation in Kentucky even when
one was convinced of the evils of the slavery system.

The final word of the Presbyterian Church on the whole subject of slavery was sounded at its
General Assembly in Cincinnati in 1845, when a resolution was adopted, as submitted by Nathan
L. Rice, of Kentucky, stating that it was not competent for the church to legislate where Christ
and his apostles had not legislated. This, at least for the time being, proved acceptable to
the churches south of the Ohio and avoided a breach in the Presbyterians such as had just taken
place among the Methodists and Baptists.

The Baptists as a State organization did not pursue a policy similar to that of the Presbyterians.
After the failure of the emancipationist campaign in 1792 and again at the constitutional convention
in 1799 a few members of the Baptist Church began a movement for immediate abolition under
the lead of several ministers--Tarrent, Barrow, Sutton, Holmes and others. The policy which
they advocated was not only one of immediate abolition but of non-fellowship with the slaveholders
within their own denomination. There was no general governing body for the State, as the Baptists
had several so-called associations which covered only a few counties each. The trend of opinion
throughout the various commonwealth organizations was apparently against the position held
by the emancipationist group, for the latter in 1807 withdrew from the regular organizations
and established an association of their own which they called the Licking Locust Association.
They were only able to muster the assent of twelve churches to their newer group and soon died
out in importance.[410] The real sentiment of the Baptists was no doubt much like that of the
Presbyterians, but these early advocates of Negro freedom in their own organization were entirely
too radical even for their own church membership. Had they followed a course of action and
policy more in keeping with their own constituents they might have accomplished much good,
whereas, as it was, they only stirred up the feeling within their own denomination to such
an extent that thereafter little progress was made towards a policy of even gradual emancipation
of the slave.

Throughout the slavery era, however, the Baptists in the State were divided into the "regular"
and the "separatists," the former being in favor of non-interference with the question and
the latter representing the advocates of emancipation in one form or another. Both agreed that
slavery was an evil, but the regular group was unwilling to make it the cause of the expulsion
of a slaveholder from the church. In May, 1845, a "Southern Baptist Convention" was held at
Augusta, Georgia. The meeting had been hastily called and representatives were present only
from Maryland, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, Kentucky, and the
District of Columbia. Mississippi, Arkansas, Tennessee and Florida were represented only by
letters. The convention had been summoned as a protest against the action of the "Acting Board"
of the church in the country in refusing to consent to the appointment of a slaveholder to
any field of foreign missionary labors.[411] In June of the same year the Kentucky Baptists
for the most part withdrew from the northern organization and pledged themselves to this newly
formed southern convention. The creed was not changed. It was simply a matter of rebuke toward
the northern section's attitude on the slavery question.[412]

The Methodists had also struggled to find a peaceful solution of the problem of harmonizing
Christianity with slavery. At the meeting of the General Conference of the Methodist Church
in 1845, several days were taken up in the debate over the status of Bishop James Osgood Andrew,
of Kentucky. By inheritance and marriage he was a slaveholder. Finally he was requested by
a vote of 110 to 68 "to desist from the exercise of the office of Bishop while this impediment
remained." The southerners in the convention became unusually indignant, declaring that the
infliction of such a stigma upon Bishop Andrew would make it impossible for them to maintain
the influence of Methodism in the South.[413] So they withdrew from the convention and in May,
1845, held a convention of the Methodist churches of the Southern States in Louisville. After
a nineteen-days' session they decided to set up an organization of their own to be known as
the "Methodist Episcopal Church South" and to have their first meeting at Petersburg, Virginia,
in May, 1846.[414]

The Kentucky Methodist Conference met at Frankfort on September 17, 1845, and the entire attention
of the meeting was given over to the question of whether they would adhere to the general conference
or would pledge themselves to the newly formed southern organization. Bishop Andrew appeared
at Frankfort at the crucial moment and stated all the facts concerning himself and the action
which the Louisville Conference had taken as a result of the trouble in the previous General
Conference. By a vote of 146 to 5 they then declared that henceforth they would adhere to the
Methodist Episcopal Church South, and that all proceedings, records and official acts would
thereafter be in the name of the "Kentucky Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church South."[415]

At its annual conference in 1858 held in Hopkinsville the Louisville Conference held a very
heated debate over the rules of the church regarding slaveholders. Finally they voted to expunge
from the General Rules the one which forbade "the buying and selling of men, women and children,
with the intention to enslave them."[416] The regulation thus repealed, although it was a part
of the rules of Methodism, was just another indication of the sentiment in Kentucky at that
time to resent more and more the encroachments of the North on the slave system of the South
and to hang on to the institution with a grim determination. But they were not willing to go
to unwarrantable lengths, for at the Kentucky Conference held in Germantown in March, 1860,
a proposition submitted by the sister conferences to the South with a view to further altering
the rules on slavery was denied.[417]

The churches of Kentucky for the most part pursued a policy of benevolent neutrality in the
struggle which the slave forces of the State were having with their neighbors to the North.
The Baptists and Methodists within the commonwealth officially never made any positive contribution
to the forces of either side, and they took no definite stand until the whole southern division
of their general national organization withdrew from membership in the national conventions
and set up an organization of their own. When this much had been done both the Methodists and
Baptists of Kentucky pledged their allegiance to their respective newly formed southern conventions.
On the other hand the Presbyterians of the State maintained a policy that was distinctively
their own, separate and apart from any acts of their national organization. They were the only
religious body in Kentucky to issue officially a constructive plan for the betterment of social
and economic conditions under slavery. When it came to the advocacy of even gradual emancipation
they were careful to state that the plan was only published for the benefit of the slaveholding
members of their own religious body. The Presbyterians went further in their interference with
the institution of slavery in the State than any other religious body, but even they were not
willing to try to extend their home missionary field beyond their own membership. On the whole,
the churches in Kentucky merely followed the dictates of public opinion on the subject of slavery,
trying to pursue a policy of neutrality as long as possible and then when it was no longer
feasible, most of them sided with the slaveholding group. The northern section of none of these
religious bodies, however, was driven out of the State. There were a good many of the so-called
"northern" churches which remained loyal to the old national organizations.

The summary of the actions of the three principal religious bodies of the State shows that
there was a growing sentiment against the institution of slavery. Kentucky being a slaveholding
State, the significance of this attitude was very important. While it may be true that the
majority sentiment even among the churches was not in favor of the elimination of slavery the
very fact that even a minority were coming to the front unmolested by violence and threats
and favoring the gradual elimination of the established institution revealed the general trend
of public opinion among the people of Kentucky. These measures were taken entirely upon their
own initiative and were not prompted by an outside anti-slavery influence.

Any discussion of the evolution of public opinion in Kentucky on the subject of emancipation
and of slavery in general would be incomplete without describing the attitude of Henry Clay
toward the institution in Kentucky. During almost the entire period of slavery in Kentucky
he was the foremost citizen of the State and one of the principal slaveholders. From those
two viewpoints alone anything that he had to say on the local type and problems of slavery
is valuable in this connection.

The general position of Clay on the subject of Negro servitude has never been very widely understood.
Among the radical abolitionists of the North he was looked upon as a friend of slavery for
the sake of political advancement and among the slaveholders in some parts of the South he
was regarded as almost a member of the Garrisonian group of the enemies of slavery. To understand
Clay's real position we need only to consider his relation to the institution as it existed
in his native State.

Coming from Virginia to Lexington in 1797, Clay soon found ample opportunities for a public
career. He first came into prominence as a writer on slavery in the columns of the Lexington
Gazette and the Kentucky Reporter. When the constitutional convention of 1799 was called for
a revision of the fundamental law of the State Clay bent all his efforts towards the adoption
of a system of gradual emancipation for the slaves of Kentucky. It was pointed out that there
were relatively few slaves in the State and that a progressive plan of liberation would be
much easier than at any future time.

The consensus of opinion at the time was that the emancipationists led by this young man from
Virginia would have been successful, had it not been for the intervening excitement produced
by the Alien and Sedition Laws and the resulting famous Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions of
1798. Clay threw himself heart and soul into the newer campaign against the mistakes of the
Federalists and the former enthusiasm for the gradual freedom of the slaves seems to have died
down in his thought as well as among the Kentucky people in general. Thus the constitutional
convention of 1799 left the conditions of slavery as they were.

In a speech delivered three decades later before the Kentucky Colonization Society, Clay said
in commenting on his position in 1798: "More than thirty years ago, an attempt was made, in
this commonwealth, to adopt a system of gradual emancipation, similar to that which the illustrious
Franklin had mainly contributed to introduce in 1780, in the state founded by the benevolent
Penn. And among the facts of my life which I look back to with most satisfaction is that of
my having cooperated, with other zealous and intelligent friends, to procure the establishment
of that system in this state. No one was rash enough to think of throwing loose upon the community,
ignorant and unprepared, the untutored slaves of the state."[419]

Clay's private dealings with the institution were always consistent with his political principles
on the subject of slavery. He bought many slaves during his lifetime but he never sold any.[420]
Clay believed that the slaves should be freed, but at the same time considered the difficulties
attendant upon instant emancipation. Among the mass of the slaveholders of the State, Clay
was one of the very few who held a perfectly consistent attitude on gradual emancipation as
was finally shown by his will.[421]

With a more radical policy than that of Henry Clay the Kentucky Abolition Society had been
established as early as 1807, but its membership was composed largely of Presbyterian and Baptist
preachers who were not in sympathy with the stand taken by the constitutional convention of
1799. It was not until about 1830 that there began in the State any real movement which was
wide enough in influence to be taken as an indication of the trend of public opinion. It will
be recalled that it was not until 1835 that the Presbyterian Synod was able to decide on a
plan of gradual emancipation.

It was in 1831 that some 48 slaveholders of Kentucky met and declared themselves in favor of
the gradual liberation of the slaves.[422] James G. Birney, who was at that time living in
Danville, took this statement of the slave owners rather seriously and sent out an invitation
to the prominent men of the State to attend an emancipation convention on December 6, 1831.
After several months of determined effort Birney only succeeded in getting together nine men,
all slaveholders. It is evident from the writings of Birney that he thought these men were
all determined to free their slaves and that whatever plan he should propose would be accepted.
But when the nine slaveholders began to talk about the existing conditions in Kentucky Birney's
eyes were opened. It was pointed out that those who advocated immediate emancipation were coming
more and more to be victims of social ostracism. Furthermore, Birney learned that there was
among the prominent slaveholders of the State a sort of secret organization which had been
formed to protect the constitutional rights of Kentucky slaveholders against the encroachments
of the people from the North. James G. Birney was one of the most intelligent of the Kentuckians
who favored emancipation, but the ardent enthusiasm which he had hitherto held for the future
of his cause in Kentucky was decidedly cooled by this little gathering of nine slaveholders.
These men showed him a point of view about which he had thought very little. Outside of the
new vision which this conference gave to Birney the only result of the deliberations was that
there was formed a society of slaveholders which advocated the gradual emancipation of the
future offspring of slaves when they reached the age of twenty-one.[423]

Soon after this episode Birney came out in opposition to both gradual emancipation and colonization.
The majority of liberal-minded Kentuckians were coming more and more to believe in these two
propositions as the ultimate solution of the slave problems of the State and once Birney came
out in opposition to them he was put down as a radical abolitionist. In July, 1835, the feeling
of the people of Danville was aroused to the highest pitch and his anti-slavery paper The Philanthropist
was forced to suspend publication when the local printer was bought out.[424] The feeling of
the people throughout the State, however, was well shown by the fact that for the next two
months Birney made personal visits to Lexington, Frankfort and Louisville in an attempt to
get a printer to issue his newspaper. He was entirely unsuccessful and on September 13 he wrote
to Gerrit Smith that he had determined to move to Cincinnati.[425] While the people of the
State could not agree with Birney's attitude on slavery they were the first to admire his courage.
George D. Prentice, the pro-slavery editor of the Louisville Journal, had this comment to make:

     "He is an enthusiastic, but, in our opinion, a visionary
     philanthropist, whose efforts, though well intended, are likely
     to be of no real service to the cause of humanity. He at least
     shows, however, that he has the courage to reside among the
     people whose institutions he assails. He is not like William
     Lloyd Garrison living in Massachusetts, and opening the battery
     upon the states five hundred or one thousand miles off. He is not
     such a coward or fool as to think of cannonading the South from
     the steeple of a New England meeting house."

The climax of Birney's career in Kentucky had been reached in the early part of 1835 when he
split with the Kentucky Colonization Society. Judge Underwood in the annual colonization address
at Frankfort had attempted to show that the only way to exterminate slavery in the State was
by African colonization. He advocated the expenditure of $140,000 annually for the transportation
of four thousand Negroes between the ages of seventeen and twenty. The plan if followed for
fifty years he stated would rid the State of all slaves.[426] In a letter to Gerrit Smith on
January 31, 1835, Birney voiced his opposition to the plan of Judge Underwood and to any scheme
of colonization. Thus on another point he was to be classed as a radical abolitionist and his
career of usefulness in Kentucky was at an end. If he had chosen a more middle ground and aided
the cause of colonization, he would no doubt have accomplished much good. As it was, he was
forced to leave the State after many threats and thereafter he stormed the institution of slavery
in his native State from a safe region north of the Ohio River. From that time on everything
that he uttered in opposition to slavery in Kentucky was met with a strong current of opposition.
Where Birney might have accomplished much for his native State he really did harm because he
went beyond the point where the people would listen to his advice. In September, 1834, he visited
Henry Clay and that most liberal of all Kentucky slaveholders pointed out to Birney the error
of his ways but the latter showed no signs of listening to advice and thereafter Clay and Birney
were sworn political antagonists. Had Birney joined with Clay at this time there might have
been a much brighter future in Kentucky for the cause of emancipation. As it was, Birney never
receded from his position and when the Presbyterian Synod came out with its plan of gradual
emancipation Birney voiced his determined opposition to the scheme because it did not favor
the immediate liberation of the slaves.[427] With the advent of the abolition movement most
of the Kentucky masters who were in favor of gradual emancipation receded from their position
and held on firmly to the existing institution.[428]

The series of events from 1831 to 1835, centering around the activities of Birney, brought
the attention of the public to the slavery question more than ever. As was common in all other
movements of popular interest it became the custom for local gatherings to be held to discuss
the problem. It was always customary at the conclusion of these meetings to draw up a series
of resolutions and it is noticeable that they all voiced a similarity of sentiment on the slavery
question. A typical set of resolves were those drawn up at a gathering held in Shelbyville
in June, 1835:

     "Resolved, that the system of domestic slavery as it now exists
     in this commonwealth, is both a moral and a political evil, and
     in violation of the rights of man.

     "Resolved, as the opinion of this meeting, that the additional
     value which would be given to our property, and its products by
     the introduction of free white labor, would in itself be
     sufficient, under a system of gradual emancipation, to transport
     the whole of our colored population.

     "Resolved, that no system of emancipation will meet with our
     approbation, unless colonization be inseparably connected with
     it, and that any scheme of emancipation which will leave the
     blacks within our borders, is more to be deprecated than slavery
     itself."[429]

These resolutions were just another indication that the sentiment of the people of Kentucky
during the decade from 1830 to 1840 was in favor of gradual emancipation of the slaves and
their colonization in Africa. We have seen that this was the plan of the various church bodies,
and also of Kentucky's greatest statesman, Henry Clay. Added to this we find that the majority
of the liberal-minded people of the State held to the same conviction. But why, one asks, did
all this feeling come to naught. The answer can be better expressed in the words of a contemporary
Kentuckian, Nathaniel Shaler: "From the local histories the deliberate student will easily
become convinced that if there had been no external pressure against slavery at this time there
would still have been a progressive elimination of the slave element from the population by
emancipation on the soil, by the sale of slaves to the planters of the Southern States, and
by their colonization in foreign parts."[430]

During the decade from 1840 to 1850 this outside pressure of which Shaler speaks was at its
height. We have seen typical examples of it within the borders of Kentucky in the discussion
of the cases of Delia Webster, Calvin Fairbank and John B. Mahan. The change in the trend of
popular thought during this period does not show itself much in the open until 1849, when the
third constitutional convention was about to assemble. It was then that all phases of the problem
of slavery were discussed, in the press, in the pulpit, on the platform and in the elections.
George IX Prentice in an editorial gave the best exposition of Kentucky sentiment. He said:
"The sentiment of Kentucky we believe to be, that slavery is an evil which must be borne with
patience, simply because there is no known plan for its rapid extinction which would not produce
incalculable sacrifices and appalling risks. At the same time we think the people of Kentucky
are not inclined to increase the evil, but are inclined to favor its gradual emancipation and
remote termination, by prohibiting the further introduction of slaves and by some provision
tending to encourage voluntary emancipation with colonization. These measures they believe,
taken in connection with the known tendency in widening circles to substitute free for slave
labor, will hasten the social revolution in question as fast as it can be carried with safety
to the Commonwealth or with benefit to the colonized negro."[431]

So universal was this feeling that even Cassius M. Clay, the only real abolitionist left in
the State, came out more or less in favor of it. Under his leadership there was held at Frankfort,
April 25, 1849, an emancipation convention to which all the more radical element were invited.
Clay himself proved to be the most radical member of the convention but when they came to draw
up a series of resolutions the only ones to pass were those which favored the absolute prohibition
of the importation of any more slaves into Kentucky and the complete power to enforce and perfect,
under the new constitution, whenever the people desired it, a system of gradual emancipation
of the slaves.[432] Here we are confronted with the unusual fact that the radical element of
the State agreed with the plan of George D. Prentice, one of the chief pro-slavery men of Kentucky,
and with that of Henry Clay.

While sojourning for his health in New Orleans in February, 1849, Clay sent Richard Pindell
for publication a letter on the gradual emancipation of slavery in Kentucky, as the State at
that time was about to hold another constitutional convention. This long and able document
constitutes the most constructive program for the progressive elimination of slavery from the
State that was ever drawn up. It embodied not only the fundamental principles of Clay's attitude
on the Kentucky slavery question but it undoubtedly typified the real position of the average
high-minded Kentucky slaveholder of that day. Clay frankly admitted that he had little hope
of the immediate success of the plan, but he thought it was his duty to present the facts of
the problem to the people of his own State, at a time when they were about to alter the existing
constitution. The spirit of the plan as well as its context shows that Clay had thoroughly
considered the emancipation question from all aspects, especially in relation to its practical
operation. The actual plan was based on three principles: (1) that any gradual emancipation
should be slow in its operation, so as not to disturb the existing habits of society; (2) as
an indispensable condition the liberated slaves were to be sent out of the State and colonized
in Africa; (3) and the expenses of their transportation and six months subsistence were to
be borne by a fund supplied by the labor of the freed negro.

Regarding the progressive plan of liberation, Clay suggested that a certain date, January 1,
1855 or 1860, be fixed for the commencement of the plan. All slaves born after that date were
to be free at the age of twenty-five; but they were liable thereafter to be hired out under
State authority for a period of not more than three years, in order to raise money to pay for
their expenses of transportation to their colony and their subsistence for the term of six
months. It was suggested that the offspring of those who were to be free at twenty-five should
be free at their birth, but subject to apprenticeship until they reached their majority and
then to be hired out as in the case of the parent to pay the expenses of transportation to
the colony and their settlement there. In the meanwhile the master would have the usual legal
rights over the slaves and could sell, devise or remove them out of the State.

Clay considered colonization to be an indispensable part of his scheme and went so far as to
say that he would be "utterly opposed" to any system of emancipation without it. He firmly
believed that the nearly two hundred thousand blacks along with their descendants "could never
live in peace and harmony and equality with the residue of the population" if they were free.
He thought the expense of colonizing should be borne by a fund from the labor of the liberated
Negro because he was the individual who secured the most benefit thereby. The non-slaveholder
should not be taxed for any share in the expense and the slaveholder would have enough sacrifices
to make without any additional financial burdens. Clay figured that the average annual hire
of each slave would be about fifty dollars, or one hundred and fifty dollars for the whole
period of three years. One third of this sum would be required for the transportation of the
Negro to Africa and the other two thirds would go towards a fund to establish him in his new
country.[433]

The persistence of Clay in his avowed convictions on the subject of slavery and emancipation
in Kentucky was kept up in spite of the fact that within a few days after the publication of
his plan of emancipation throughout Kentucky the House of Representatives at Frankfort by the
unanimous vote of 93 to 0 declared that "we the representatives of the people of Kentucky,
are opposed to abolition or emancipation of slavery in any shape or form whatever, except as
now provided by the laws and constitution of the state."[434] This was their answer to the
plea set forth by Clay and strange to say the same group of men voted unanimously at the same
session to return Clay for six years more to the United States Senate.

A convention of the so-called "Friends of Constitutional Reform" had been held at the State
capital on February 5, 1849, and had drawn up a series of twelve resolutions on the several
questions which were to be debated in the constitutional convention. They made mention incidentally
of the desired reforms in connection with slavery stating "that we do not desire or contemplate
any change in the relative condition of master and slave in the new Constitution, and intend
a firm and decided resistance to any such change. We have no objection to a proper provision
for colonizing the present free blacks, and those who shall hereafter be set free, but protest
against abolition or emancipation without the consent of the owner, unless upon full compensation
and colonization."[435]

This element dominated the convention. Such a statement was, however, not brought on by the
words of Clay, but was a direct answer to the "higher law than the constitution" plea of the
abolitionists.[436] The convention amended the standard article on slavery with a section to
the effect that the "General Assembly should pass laws providing that any free negro or mulatto
immigrating to, and any slave thereafter emancipated in, and refusing to leave that State,
should be deemed guilty of a felony, punished by confinement in the penitentiary."

The obvious purpose of this amendment was to reduce the number of Negroes in the State. Accordingly
every slave emancipated was forced to leave the State and the Negro population was decreased
just so much every time any slaves were set free. The convention was thus willing to do something
towards eliminating the Negro, but was not in favor of any scheme of a general gradual liberation
of the slaves. The necessary legislative act for carrying out the provision of the constitution
was enacted March 24, 1851.[437] This law only went half way in that it only prevented those
Negroes who had been freed in Kentucky from living in the State. It was not until March 3,
1860, that the prohibition was extended to all free Negro immigration into the State.[438]
An interesting development of this policy was shown in the enactment of the legislature in
1863 which declared it unlawful for any Negro or mulatto claiming to be free under the Emancipation
Proclamation to migrate to or remain in the State. Any Negro violating this law was to be treated
as a runaway slave.[439]

The desire of the State authorities to eliminate the free Negro was accompanied by constructive
measures in behalf of the emancipated slave. On March 3, 1856, the State legislature passed
a law appropriating $5,000 annually to aid the Kentucky Colonization Society in the transportation
of free Negroes to Liberia.[440] The universal sentiment of the time was that the salvation
of the Negro race rested in their elimination from the State even as free men and their transportation
to their native African soil. Henry Clay of all others was the most persistent advocate of
colonization.

We have seen that the general trend of public opinion from about 1798 had been progressively
in favor of gradual emancipation provided it was coupled with some form of colonization which
would remove the liberated Negroes from the State. Public sentiment, however, received a serious
set-back about 1838 with the beginning of the Underground Railroad system and the incoming
of the abolitionist literature. In a speech in the Kentucky legislature of 1838 James T. Morehead,
one of the leading anti-slavery statesmen of the State, portrayed the coming of the newer era
in the history of Kentucky slavery when the people would make more strenuous efforts to hold
firmly to the slavery institution. Morehead pictured the popular mind in these words: "Any
man who desires to see slavery abolished--any friend of emancipation, gradual or immediate---
who supposes for a moment that now is the time to carry out this favorite policy, must be blind
to the prognostics that lower from every quarter of the political sky. Sir, the present is
not the period to unmanacle the slave in this or any other state of the Union. Four years ago
you might have had some hope. But the wild spirit of fanaticism has done much to retard the
work of emancipation and to rivet the fetters of slavery in Kentucky.... The advocates of abolition--the
phrenzied fanatics of the North, neither sleep nor slumber. Their footsteps are even now to
be seen wherever mischief can be perpetrated--and it may be that while the people of Kentucky
are reposing in the confidence of fancied security, the tocsin of rebellion may resound through
the land--the firebrand of the incendiary may wrap their dwellings in flames--their towns and
cities may become heaps of ashes before their eyes and their minds drawn off from all thoughts
of reforming the government to consider the means necessary for their self-preservation--the
protection of their families and all that is dear to men."[441]

Such was the idea of one of the most prominent public men of Kentucky and such became in time
the opinion of the average citizen who had come to believe in gradual emancipation as the hope
and solution of the Negro problem in the State. The future course of events regarding slavery
in Kentucky is to be explained by this radical change of mind. Thus did the wise and constructive
plans of the gradual emancipationists come to naught with the incoming of the radical abolitionist
movement which the Kentucky populace thought would bring about a civil insurrection among the
slaves in their own State. The abolitionists misunderstood the gradual emancipation movement
in Kentucky and really fanned the flame of the pro-slavery sentiment that came in its place.

FOOTNOTES:

[397] Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church in Kentucky, p. 336.

[398] Minutes of Transylvania Presbytery, Vol. 1, p. 147.

[399] Minutes of Transylvania Presbytery, Vol. 2, pp. 102-3.

[400] Ibid., Vol. 2, pp. 163, 224.

[401] Minutes W. Lexington Presbytery, Vol. 1, p. 38.

[402] Ibid., p. 81.

[403] Minutes of Kentucky Synod, Vol. 5, pp. 28, 31.

[404] Minutes of Kentucky Synod, Vol. 5, pp. 50-52.

[405] Address to Presbyterians of Kentucky, pp. 33-34.

[406] Ibid., p. 34.

[407] Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church in Kentucky, p. 340.

[408] Op. cit., p. 340.

[409] Blanchard and Rice, Debate on Slavery, p. 88.

[410] Spencer, History of the Baptists in Kentucky, Vol. 1, p. 186.

[411] Niles' Register, May 24, 1845.

[412] Ibid., June 28, 1845.

[413] Ibid., June 8, 1844.

[414] Ibid., May 17, 24, 31, 1845.

[415] Niles' Register, September 27, 1845.

[416] Collins, History of Kentucky, Vol. 1, p. 81.

[417] Ibid., Vol. 1, p. 83.

[418] Schurz, Carl, Henry Clay, Vol. 1, p. 31.

[419] Colton, Works of Clay, Vol. 6, p. 153.

[420] His attitude was perhaps best shown when, on a visit to Richmond, Indiana, in the fall
of 1846, he was presented with a petition by a Quaker by the name of Mendenhall asking him
to liberate all the slaves he owned. Clay made a rather lengthy speech to the gentleman on
the general principles of the question and then, came down to the practical side of the problem:

"Without any knowledge of the relation in which I stand to my slaves, or their individual condition,
you, Mr. Mendenhall, and your associates, who have been active in getting up this petition,
call upon me forthwith to liberate the whole of them. Now let me tell you, that some half a
dozen of them, from age, decrepitude, or infirmity, are wholly unable to gain a livelihood
for themselves, and are a heavy charge upon me. Do you think that I should conform to the dictates
of humanity by ridding myself of that charge, and sending them forth into the world with the
boon of liberty, to end a wretched existence in starvation? Another class is composed of helpless
infants, with or without improvident mothers. Do you believe as a Christian, that I should
perform my duty toward them by abandoning them to their fate? Then there is another class who
would not accept their freedom if I would give it to them. I have for many years owned a slave
that I wished would leave me, but he would not. What shall I do with that class?"

"What my treatment of my slaves is you can learn from Charles, who accompanies me on this journey,
and who has traveled with me over the greater part of the United States, and in both the Canadas,
and has had a thousand opportunities, if he had chosen to embrace them, to leave me. Excuse
me, Mr. Mendenhall, for saying that my slaves are as well fed and clad, look as sleek and hearty,
and are quite as civil and respectful in their demeanor, and as little disposed to wound the
feelings of any one, as you are."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I shall, Mr. Mendenhall, take your petition into respectful and deliberate consideration;
but before I come to a final decision, I should like to know what you and your associates are
willing to do for the slaves in my possession, if I should think proper to liberate them. I
own about fifty, who are probably worth about fifteen thousand dollars. To turn them loose
upon society without any means of subsistence or support would be an act of cruelty. Are you
willing to raise and secure the payment of fifteen thousand dollars for their benefit, if I
should be induced to free them? The security of the payment of that sum would materially lessen
the obstacle in the way of their emancipation."--Colton, Reed & McKinley, Works of Henry Clay,
Vol. 6, pp. 388-390.

This sums up in Clay's own words his treatment of the slaves that were under his control. It
is not to be presumed in any case that general conditions in the State were like this. There
were obvious reasons why Clay couldn't get one or two of his slaves to accept freedom when
he offered it, for they realized that they were far better off under his own particular care
than they could ever hope to be under an absolutely free status in society.

[421] So consistent was Clay in deed as well as words in spite of all that the opposing forces
had accomplished in the "State of Kentucky that when he died he left a will which did for his
own slaves just what he would have had others do in his lifetime. As long as he lived he refused
to emancipate his slaves but when he passed away he left a written document, the following
portion of which forms the eminent climax to a career of continuous labors for the eventual
good of the Kentucky slave owners as well as the slaves themselves.

"In the sale of any of my slaves, I direct that members of families shall not be separated
without their consent.

"My will is, and I accordingly direct, that the issue of all my female slaves, which shall
be born after the first day of January, 1850, shall be free at the respective ages, of the
males at twenty-eight, and of the females at twenty-five; and that the three years next preceding
their arrival at the age of freedom, they shall be entitled to their hire or wages for those
years, or of the fair value of their services, to defray the expense of transporting them to
one of the African colonies and of furnishing them with an outfit on their arrival there.

"And I further direct, that they be taught to read, to write, and to cipher, and that they
be sent to Africa. I further will and direct, that the issue of any of the females, who are
so to be entitled to their freedom, at the age of twenty-five, shall be free at their birth,
and that they be bound out as apprentices to learn farming, or some useful trade, upon the
condition also, of being taught to read, to write, and to cipher. And I direct also, that the
age of twenty-one having been attained, they shall be sent to one of the African colonies,
to raise the necessary funds for which purpose, if they shall not have previously earned them,
they must be hired out for a sufficient length of time.

"I require and enjoin my executors and descendants to pay particular attention to the execution
of this provision of my will. And if they should sell any of the females who or whose issue
are to be free, I especially desire them to guard carefully the rights of such issue by all
suitable stipulations and sanctions in the contract of sale. But I hope that it may not be
necessary to sell any such persons who are to be entitled to their freedom, but that they may
be retained in the possession of some of my descendants."--Colton, Reed & McKinley, Vol. 3, p. 153.

[422] Birney, William, James G. Birney and his Times, p. 132.

[423] Birney, William, James G. Birney and his Times, p. 133.

[424] Ibid., p. 182. The interesting story of Birney and his troubles with his fellow townsmen
does not come within the scope of this investigation and will be found treated at length in
William Birney's James G. Birney and His Times.

[425] Birney, William, James G. Birney and his Times, p. 185.

[426] Ibid., p. 155.

[427] Birney, William, James G. Birney and his Times, p. 156.

[428] Quick to recognize this tendency, Clay referred to it in his Senate speech of February
7, 1839:

"The proposition in Kentucky for gradual emancipation did not prevail, but it was sustained
by a large and respectable minority. That minority had increased, and was increasing, until
the abolitionists commenced their operations. The effect has been to dissipate all prospects
whatever, for the present, of any scheme of gradual or other emancipation. The people of that
state have been shocked and alarmed by these abolition movements, and the number who would
now favor a system even of gradual emancipation is probably less than it was in the years 1798-9.
At the session of the legislature held in 1837-8 the question of calling a convention was submitted
to a consideration of the people by a law passed in conformity with the Constitution of that
state. Many motives existed for the passage of the law, and among them that of emancipation
had its influence. When the question was passed upon by the people at their last annual election,
only about one fourth of the whole voters of the state supported a call of a convention. The
apprehension of the danger of abolition was the leading consideration among the people for
opposing the call.

[429] Niles' Register, July 4, 1835.

[430] Shaler, N. S., Kentucky, p. 197.

[431] Louisville Weekly Journal, September 26, 1849.

[432] Niles' Register, May 9, 1849. Clay, Cassius, Memoirs, pp. 175-178. Collins, History of
Kentucky, Vol. 1, p. 59.

[433] Clay endeavored in his plan to be fair to all parties concerned, not only the Negro but
the slave owner as well, as is well evident in the following paragraph, in which he sought
to show the justice of his scheme to the holders of Negroes in the State:

"That the system, will be attended with some sacrifices on the part of the slaveholders, which
are to be regretted, need not be denied. What great and beneficent enterprise was ever accomplished
without risk and sacrifice! But these sacrifices are distant, contingent, and inconsiderable.
Assuming the year 1860 for the commencement of the system, all slaves born prior to that time
would remain such during their lives, and the present loss of the slaveholder would be only
the difference in value of the female slave whose offspring, if she had any, born after the
first day of January, 1860, should be free at the age of twenty-five or should be slaves for
life. In the meantime, if the right to remove or sell the slave out of the State should be
exercised, that trifling loss would not be incurred. The slaveholder, after the commencement
of the system, would lose the difference between the value of the slaves for life and slaves
until the age of twenty-five years. He might also incur some inconsiderable expense in rearing
from their birth the issue of those who were to be free at twenty-five, until they were old
enough to be apprenticed out; but as it is probable that they would be most generally bound
to him, he would receive some indemnity from their services until they attained their majority."

[434] Collins, History of Kentucky, Vol. 1, p. 58.

[435] Niles' Register, February 21, 1849.

[436] We know how Clay felt about this matter, for he referred to it at length in his speech
in the Senate on February 20, 3850, in the debate on the Compromise resolutions. Speaking particularly
of his letter of emancipation he declared: "I knew at the moment that I wrote that letter in
New Orleans, as well as I know at this moment, that a majority of the people of Kentucky would
not adopt my scheme, or probably any project whatever of gradual emancipation. Perfectly well
did I know it; but I was anxious that, if any of my posterity, or any human being who comes
after me, should have occasion to look into my sentiments, and ascertain what they were on
this great institution of slavery; to put them on record then; and ineffectual as I saw the
project would be, I felt it was a duty which I owed to myself, to truth, to my country, and
to my God, to record my sentiments. The State of Kentucky has decided as I anticipated she
would do. 1, p. 61.

[438] Ibid., Vol. 1, p. 83.

[439] Session Laws of 1863, p. 366.

[440] Ibid., 1856, Vol. 1, p. 50.

[441] Maysville Eagle, April 11, 1838.

BOOK REVIEWS

The Negro in Literature and Art. By BENJAMIN BRAWLEY. Duffield and Company, New York, 1918.
Pp. 176. Price $1.25.

This is an effort to put in succinct form an estimate of the Negro's efforts in the creative
world. The style of the book is largely biographical. The opening chapter deals with Negro
genius. Then around such Negroes as Phyllis Wheatley, Paul Laurence Dunbar, Charles W. Chestnutt,
W. E. B. DuBois, William Stanley Braithwaite, Meta Warrick Fuller, Henry O. Tanner, Frederick
Douglass, and Booker T. Washington are grouped most of the facts as to the achievements of
the Negroes in art, literature, and science. In the appendix there is a dissertation on the
Negro in American fiction. A helpful bibliography and a short index are also added.

This book is unique in that it is the first work devoted exclusively to this aspect of Negro
history. It undertakes "to treat somewhat more thoroughly than has ever before been attempted
the achievement of the Negro in the United States along literary and artistic lines, judging
this by absolute rather than by partial or limited standards." The work is the result of studies
begun by the author years ago and published in booklet form in 1910 as The Negro in Literature
and Art. The substance of this treatise is found also in Professor Brawley's A Short History
of the American Negro. Certain articles included therein have already been published in the
Springfield Republican, The Southern Workman, and the Dial. The appearance of this work in
the new form is justified by the author on the ground that the constantly increasing material
in this field has so changed his viewpoint that the time seemed ripe for a more intensive review.

The purpose of the author is a lofty one. Here we see the effort to inform the public that
there is among Negroes a growing scholarship which must be reckoned with in determining the
thought of this country. It is to convince the public that the Negro mind is functioning along
all lines of thought known to other races of achievement. The purpose, too, is to set forth
to Negroes examples of successful men and women in this field to serve them as an incentive
to contribute to thought. Professor Brawley has, therefore, written an interesting book which
should attract all persons desiring to understand those forces at work in the Negro mind and
the manner in which they have found expression.

                                   C. G. WOODSON

       *       *       *       *       *

Negro Folk Songs. By NATALIE CURTIS BURLIN. Book I. New York and Boston, G. Schirmer. Pp. 42.
Price 50 cents.

The unique features of Natalie Curtis Burlin's notation of Negro folk-songs, collected in the
South, are their complete truth to the original folk-song, spirit and letter. The spontaneous
part-singing of groups of Negroes is a rare phenomenon in folk-music, for most simple people
sing only a unisono melody. Mrs. Curtis Burlin, unlike most former collectors, has recorded
not only the melody and words, but the whole choral folk-song, as sung in the South, with all
its different voices. To secure entire accuracy in so difficult a task, a phonograph was used
and the work was mainly accomplished in all its wealth of octave at Hampton Institute, Virginia,
under the auspices of which the collection was undertaken and for the benefit of which the
publications are made. Not content with a by-ear approximation only of the folk-song, Mrs.
Burlin gave especial care to the notation of every nuance of Negro singing--organic and rhythmic.
The changing nuance syncopations that give such expressive accent to the different solo verses
sung by the Negro "leader" have all been caught and put upon paper. Doctor Talcott Williams,
of the New York School of Journalism, says that the example of this reverent and scholarly
work marks a new era in the collecting of Negro folk-music in this country.

The words of the songs--true folk-poems--have been noted in dialect with the same truth to
Negro rendering as the music. Furthermore, the syllables stressed in the music are stressed
in the written poem as well; for in the mind of the Negro authors, words and music were one
spontaneous creation, and it is the music that gives to the words the accent, instead of the
words forming the basis of the accentuation of the music, as with us. This reproduction in
verse of the original Negro rhythms which are full of unexpected emphasis and captivating syncopation
forms a new departure in the manner of writing Negro poems and it is believed that modern poets
and writers of vers libre will find interest in the richness and variety of Negro rhythms here
shown.

Each song is prefaced by a few paragraphs of descriptive text and the dedications of the different
records to men who have helped to advance the Negro summarize, in a sense, the progress of
the race since emancipation.

The recording of Negro folk-songs was prefaced by Mrs. Burlin by a year's study of the native
music of Africa. Doubleday, Page & Co. will bring out in the autumn her book entitled Songs
From the Dark Continent, containing the results of careful study of native folk-lore and music
told and sung by two African boys (one a Zulu and the other from the Ndan tribe) who had come
directly to Hampton Institute from the Dark Continent. This book plainly proves the relationship
of American Negro music to its parent stem in Africa, and reveals the poetic as well as musical
gifts latent in the black race.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Black Man's Part in the War. By SIR H. H. JOHNSTON. Simpkin Marshall, London, 1917.

Taking into consideration that the United Kingdom now rules 50,000,000 of Africans who are
well represented in the battle line by the thousands of Negroes fighting to make democracy
safe in the world of the white man, from which the blacks are excluded, this sympathetic writer
here endeavors to give these soldiers of color credit for their unselfish services. The highest
tribute which he pays them is that their loyalty is incontestable. The writer, therefore, makes
an appeal in behalf of safeguarding their interests and reasonably preserving their independence
after the war. Having in mind the new alignments of trade, he sees the Africans as the producers
of the tropical products which white men will need. Their future loyalty in the competitive
commercial world after the war is also necessary to the salvation of the English people in
the tropics and at home.

The writer believes too that to secure this necessary loyalty the natives must be given political
recognition. The rights of the black man as a citizen of the empire must be affirmed wherever
the territories have been under British rule long enough to acquire a very British tone in
language, education and ideals. He hopes also that the present tendency of the natives of the
late German possessions to prefer the rule of the British to that of their former masters may
be further accentuated by the efforts of Englishmen to treat these natives with more consideration.
The writer advocates also a fair division of land where the two races are brought into contact
with each other as in Rhodesia.

To strengthen the claims he makes for the recognition of the black man the writer has well
illustrated his book with plates showing the advancement of Negroes to arouse interest in their
behalf. The book is, of necessity, incomplete, as the war has not yet ended; but, on the whole,
students of Negro life and history will find it profitable to read this broad enlightened working
program for changing the white man's attitude toward a large part of the human family which
not only has done him no great wrong, but has borne his burdens when he has been about to fall
beneath the load.

       *       *       *       *       *

History of the Civil War. By JAMES FORD RHODES, LL.D., D.Litt. McMillan Company, New York.
1861-1865. Pp. 454.

Mr. Rhodes has covered this ground in detail in his History of the United States in seven volumes.
But this work is not an abridgment of the three volumes of that history dealing with the Civil
War. Since writing his first history he has had access to much new material and many valuable
treatments of certain periods of the Civil War. He has, therefore, considered it necessary
to bring out this new volume that he may show the bearing of these new facts on his grasp of
this period of our history.

Influenced by the dominant thought of the present war, Mr. Rhodes treats such conditions as
unpreparedness, the privations of the war, lack of tea and coffee, the lack of bread and meat,
the difficulty of transportation, conscription, high prices, loans, high taxation, and consequent
distress. The Negroes are necessarily mentioned in the discussion of slavery in the territories,
the attempted slavery compromises, Lincoln's handling of the question, the effect on them of
the movements of the armies, and the efforts at emancipation leading up to the ratification
of the Thirteenth Amendment. Mention is also made of the conduct of the slaves who accompanied
the Confederates and of those who followed and fought with the Union army.

Mr. Rhodes is here at his best, that is, when writing on the Civil War. But this seems to be
mere chance. He writes a good history of the Civil War because he happens to be a Unionist,
and no one has yet proved that the Union cause was wrong. He is after all an impressionable
historian, accepting almost anything he picks up, but embellishing it so well as to win the
American public, whose scholarship has not yet performed the task of publishing an authentic
history of the Civil War from the viewpoint of treating the records scientifically. When Rhodes
elsewhere takes up the Negro in the Reconstruction he shows his lack of ability as an historian
in accepting almost everything which he has heard or read about the Negro and in branding,
therefore, as mistakes and failures all of the efforts to elevate the Negro to the dignity
of citizenship and to deal with him as a human being.

NOTES

William Bernard Hartgrove, one of the five members who participated in the organization of
the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in Chicago in 1915, died at Albuquerque,
New Mexico, on the twenty-fourth of April. In his death the Association lost a substantial
supporter and friend. He was an unselfish, wide-awake and enterprising teacher, endeavoring
always to be instrumental in the uplift of the Negro. During the last ten years of his life
he devoted much of his time and means to the work of the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, serving the local branch most of that period as secretary. When the Association
for the Study of Negro Life and History was organized he was among the first to see its possibilities
and to give it financial as well as moral support. He made himself useful in assisting the
editor in his arduous duties during the days when the work was in the making. He contributed
to the JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY, moreover, a number of articles, among which are: The Story
of Maria Louise Moore and Fannie M. Richards, The Negro Soldier in the American Revolution,
and The Story of Josiah Henson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mention of the slave Archy in Miss Beasley's Slavery in California has called forth from a
relative of his the following short sketch:

Archy's mother was named Maria. Maria had four children: Archy, Candace, Pompey and Quitman.
(I am the daughter of Candace.) At the time Charles A. Stoval took Archy to California, Maria
with her other children were with Simeon Stoval, the father of Chas. A. Stoval.

Chas. A. Stoval had been graduated in medicine and had returned home to begin practice, but
his health having failed him, he went to California, taking my Uncle Archy with him. My grandmother
Maria heard through the relatives of Stoval of Archy during the time Stoval remained in California.
But near the close of the Civil War, Chas. A. Stoval returned to Mississippi and remained there
until his death a few years later. After Stoval came back from California, my grandmother never
heard any more of her son Archy, except when she once heard that he was with the Indians, who
were treating him for some kind of sickness. Whether he died or whether this rumor was put
out to keep the Stovals from trying to steal him and bring him back to Mississippi I have never
been able to learn. My grandmother Maria continued to search for Archy, by writing several
times to San Francisco, but without success. She died in 1884. Pompey and Quitman continued
to live near Jackson, Miss., where Quitman died some time ago. Pompey was still alive when
I last heard of him.

                                   MRS. R. A. HUNT

       *       *       *       *       *

German East Africa, by A. F. Calvert, has been published by Werner Laurie, London.

Messrs. Routledge, of London, will soon bring out a volume of Select Constitutional Documents
Illustrating the History of South Africa.

Dr. H. K. W. Kumm's history of modern missionary work has appeared with imprint of MacMillan
with the title African Missionary Heroes and Heroines.

Doubleday, Page and Company announce the appearance of Education and Life, by Doctor Francis
Greenwood Peabody, of Harvard University. This is a short history of Hampton Institute during
the last fifty years, prepared at the request of the trustees. But there are others who express
doubt that the integrity of the dominant race has been maintained.[442] Scholars have for centuries
differed as to the composition of the mixed breed stock constituting the Mediterranean race
and especially about that in Egypt and the Barbary States. In that part of the dark continent
many inhabitants have certain characteristics which are more Caucasian than negroid and have
achieved more than investigators have been willing to consider the civilization of the Negro.
It is clear, however, that although the people of northern Africa cannot be classed as Negroes,
being bounded on the south by the masses of African blacks, they have so generally mixed their
blood with that of the blacks that in many parts they are no nearer to any white stock than
the Negroes of the United States.

This miscegenation, to be sure, increased toward the south into central Africa, but it has
extended also to the north and east into Asia and Europe. Traces of Negro blood have been found
in the Malay States, India and Polynesia. In the Arabian Peninsula it has been so extensive
as to constitute a large group there called the Arabised Negroes. But most significant of all
has been the invasion of Europe by persons of African blood. Professor Sergi leads one to conclude
that the ancient Pelasgii were of African origin or probably the descendants of the race which
settled northern Africa and southern Europe, and are therefore due credit for the achievements
of the early Greek and Italian civilizations.[443]

There is much evidence of a further extension of this infusion in the Mediterranean world.

     "Recent discoveries made in the vicinity of the principality of
     Monaco and others in Italy and western France," says MacDonald,
     "would seem to reveal ... the actual fact that many thousand
     years ago a negroid race had penetrated through Italy into
     France, leaving traces at the present day in the physiognomy of
     the peoples of southern Italy, Sicily, Sardinia and western
     France, and even in the western parts of the United Kingdom of
     Great Britain and Ireland. There are even at the present day some
     examples of the Keltiberian peoples of western Scotland, southern
     and western Wales, southern and western Ireland, of distinctly
     negroid aspect, and in whose ancestry there is no indication
     whatever of any connection with the West Indies or with Modern
     Africa. Still more marked is this feature in the peoples of
     southern and western France and of the other parts of the
     Mediterranean already mentioned."[444]

Because of the temperament of the Portugese this infusion of African blood was still more striking
in their country. As the Portugese are a good-natured people void of race hate they did not
dread the miscegenation of the races. One finds in southern Portugal a "strong Moorish, North
African element" and also an "old intermixture with those Negroes who were imported thither
from Northwest Africa to till the scantily populated southern provinces."[445] This miscegenation
among the Portugese easily extended to the New World. Then followed the story of the Caramarii,
the descendants of the Portugese, who after being shipwrecked near Bahia arose to prominence
among the Tupinambo Indians and produced a clan of half-castes by taking to himself numerous
native women.[446] This admixture served as a stepping stone to the assimilation of the Negroes
when they came.

There immigrated later into Brazil other settlers who, mixing eagerly with the Amerindians,
gave rise to a race called Mamelucos who began to mix maritally with the imported Negro women.
The French and Dutch too in caring for their offspring by native women promoted the same. "They
educated them, set them free, lifted them above servitude, and raised them socially to the
level of the whites"[447] so that today generally speaking there are no distinctions in society
or politics in Brazil. Commenting on this condition in Brazil, Agassiz said: "This hybrid class,
although more marked here because the Indian is added, is very numerous in all cities; perhaps,
the fact, so honorable to Brazil, that the free Negro has full access to all privileges of
any free citizen, rather tends to increase than to dimmish that number." After emancipation
in Brazil in 1888, the already marked tendency toward this fusion of the slave and the master
classes gradually increased.[448]

The Spaniards mixed less freely with the Negroes than did the Portugese but mixed just the
same. At first they seriously considered the inconveniences which might arise from miscegenation
under frontier conditions and generally refrained from extensive intermingling. But men are
but men and as Spanish women were far too few in the New World at that time, the other sex
of their race soon yielded to the charms of women of African blood. The rise of the mixed breeds
too further facilitated the movement. Spaniards who refused to intermingle with the blacks
found it convenient to approach the hybrids who showed less color. In the course of time, therefore,
the assimilation of the blacks was as pronounced in some of the Spanish colonies as in those
which originally exhibited less race antipathy. There are millions of Hispanicized Negroes
in Latin America. Many of the mixed breeds, however, have Indian rather than Negro blood.[449]

Miscegenation had its best chance among the French. Not being disinclined to mingle with Negroes,
the French early faced the problem of the half caste, which was given consideration in the
most human of all slave regulations, the Code Noir.[450] It provided that free men who had
children from their concubinage with women-slaves (if they consented to such concubinage) should
be punished by a fine of two thousand pounds of sugar. But if the offender was the master himself,
in addition to the fine, the slave should be taken from him, sold for the benefit of the hospital
and never be allowed to be freed; excepting, that, if the man was not married to another person
at the time of his concubinage, he was to marry the woman slave, who, together with her children,
should thereby become free. Masters were forbidden to constrain slaves to marry against their
will. Many Frenchmen like those in Haiti married their Negro mistresses, producing attractive
half caste women who because of their wealth were sought by gentlemen in preference to their
own women without dot.

Among the English the situation was decidedly different. There was not so much need for the
use of Negro women by Englishmen in the New World, but there was the same tendency to cohabit
with them. In the end, however, the English, unlike the Latins, disowned their offspring by
slave women, leaving these children to follow the condition of their mother. There was, therefore,
not so much less miscegenation among the English but there remained the natural tendency so
to denounce these unions as eventually to restrict the custom, as it is today, to the weaker
types of both races, the offspring of whom in the case of slave mothers became a commodity
in the commercial world.

There was extensive miscegenation in the English colonies, however, before the race as a majority
could realize the apparent need for maintaining its integrity. With the development of the
industries came the use of the white servants as well as the slaves. The status of the one
differed from that of the other in that the former at the expiration of his term of service
could become free whereas the latter was doomed to servitude for life. In the absence of social
distinctions between these two classes of laborers there arose considerable intermingling growing
out of a community of interests. In the colonies in which the laborers were largely of one
class or the other not so much of this admixture was feared, but in the plantations having
a considerable sprinkling of the two miscegenation usually ensued. The custom gave rise to
an interesting case. "Irish Nell," one of the servants brought to Maryland by Lord Baltimore,
was sold by him to a planter when he returned to England. Following the custom of other masters
who held white women as servants, he soon married her to a Negro named Butler to produce slaves.
Upon hearing this, Baltimore used his influence to have the law repealed but the abrogation
of it was construed by the Court of Appeals not to have any effect on the status of her offspring
almost a century later when William and Mary Butler sued for their freedom on the ground that
they descended from this white woman. The Provincial Court had granted them freedom but in
this decision the Court of Appeals reversed the lower tribunal on the ground that "Irish Nell"
was a slave before the measure repealing the act had been passed. This case came up again 1787
when Mary, the daughter of William and Mary Butler, petitioned the State for freedom. Both
tribunals then decided to grant this petition.[455]

The act of repeal of 1681, therefore, is self explanatory. The preamble reads: "Forasmuch as,
divers free-born English, or white women, sometimes by the instigation, procurement or connivance
of their masters, mistresses, or dames, and always to the satisfaction of their lascivious
and lustful desires, and to the disgrace not only of the English, but also of many other Christian
nations, do intermarry with Negroes and slaves, by which means, divers inconveniences, controversies,
and suits may arise, touching the issue or children of such free-born women aforesaid; for
the prevention whereof for the future, Be it enacted: That if the marriage of any woman-servant
with any slave shall take place by the procurement of permission of the master, such woman
and her issue shall be free." It enacted a penalty by fine on the master or mistress and on
the person joining the parties in marriage.[456]

The effect of this law was merely to prevent masters from prostituting white women to an economic
purpose. It did not prevent the miscegenation of the two races. McCormac says: "Mingling of
the races in Maryland continued during the eighteenth century, in spite of all laws against
it. Preventing marriages of white servants with slaves only led to a greater social evil, which
caused a reaction of public sentiment against the servant. Masters and society in general were
burdened with the care of illegitimate mulatto children, and it became necessary to frame laws
compelling the guilty parties to reimburse the masters for the maintenance of these unfortunate
waifs."[457] To remedy this laws were passed in 1715 and 1717 to reduce to the status of a
servant for seven years any white man or white woman who cohabited with any Negro, free or
slave. Their children were made servants for thirty-one years, a black thus concerned was reduced
to slavery for life and the maintenance of the bastard children of women servants was made
incumbent upon masters. If the father of an illegitimate child could be discovered, he would
have to support his offspring. If not this duty fell upon the mother who had to discharge it
by servitude or otherwise.[458]

As what had been done to prevent the admixture was not sufficient, the Maryland General Assembly
took the following action in 1728:

     "Whereas by the act of assembly relating to servants and slaves,
     there is no provision made for the punishment of free mulatto
     women, having bastard children by negroes and other slaves, nor
     is there any provision made in the said act for the punishment of
     free negro women, having bastard children by white men; and
     forasmuch as such copulations are as unnatural and inordinate as
     between white women and negro men, or other slaves.

     "Be it enacted, That from and after the end of this present
     session of assembly, that all such free mulatto women, having
     bastard children, either within or after the time of their
     service, (and their issue,) shall be subject to the same
     penalties that white women and their issue are, for having
     mulatto bastards, by the act, entitled, An act relating to
     servants and slaves.

     "And be it further enacted, by the authority aforesaid, by and
     with the advice and consent aforesaid, that from and after the
     end of this present session of assembly, that all free negro
     women, having bastard children by white men, (and their issue,)
     shall be subject to the same penalties that white women are, by
     the act aforesaid, for having bastards by negro men."[459]

Virginia which faced the same problem did not lag far behind Maryland. In 1662 the colony imposed
double fines for fornication with a Negro, but did not restrict intermarriage until 1691.[460]
The words of the preamble give the reasons for this action. It was further enacted that no
minister of the Church of England, or other minister or person whatsoever, within that colony
and dominion, should thereafter presume to marry a white man with a Negro, or mulatto woman,
or to marry a white woman with a Negro or mulatto man, upon pain of forfeiting and paying for
every such marriage, the sum of ten thousand pounds of tobacco.[462]

It developed later that these laws did not meet all requirements, for there were in subsequent
years so many illegitimate children born of such mothers that they became a public charge.[463]
Those of Negro blood were bound out by law. This law, according to Bassett, did not succeed
in preventing such unions. Two ministers were indicted within two years for performing such
a marriage ceremony. "In one case the suit was dropped, in the other case the clergyman went
before the Chief Justice and confessed as it seems of his own accord.... In 1727 a white woman
was indicted in the General Court because she had left her husband and was cohabiting with
a negro slave.... So far as general looseness was concerned this law of 1715 had no force.
Brickell, who was a physician, says that white men of the colony suffered a great deal from
a malignant kind of venereal disease which they took from the slaves."[466]

By the law of 1741 therefore the colony endeavored to prevent what the General Assembly called
"that abominable mixture and spurious issue, which hereafter may increase in this government,
by white men and women intermarrying with Indians, Negroes, mustees, or mulattoes." It was
enacted that if any man or woman, being free, should intermarry with an Indian, Negro, mustee
or mulatto man or woman, or any person of mixed blood, to the third generation, bond or free,
he should, by judgment of the county court forfeit and pay the sum of fifty pounds, proclamation
money, to the use of the parish.[467] It was also provided that if any white servant woman
should during the time of her servitude, be delivered of a child, begotten by any Negro, mulatto
or Indian, such servant, over and above the time she was by this act to serve her master or
owner for such offence, should be sold by the Church wardens of the parish, for two years,
after the time by indenture or otherwise had expired.[468]

The miscegenation of the whites and blacks extended so widely that it became a matter of concern
to the colonies farther north where the Negro population was not considerable. Seeking also
to prevent this "spurious mixt issue" Massachusetts enacted in 1705 that a Negro or mulatto
man committing fornication with an "English woman, or a woman of any other Christian nation,"
should be sold out of the province." "An English man, or man of any other Christian nation
committing fornication with a Negro or mulatto woman," should be whipped, and the woman sold
out of the province. Turner says a white servant was indicted for this offence in Sussex County
in 1677 and a tract of land there bore the name of "Mulatto Hall."[470] According to the same
writer Chester County seemed to have a large number of these cases and laid down the principle
that such admixture should be prohibited,

     "For that hee," referring to a white man, "Contrary to his
     Masters Consent hath ... got wth child a certaine molato wooman
     Called Swart anna." "David Lewis Constable of Haverford Returned
     a Negro man of his And a white woman for having a Bastard Childe
     ... the Negroe said she Intised him and promised him to marry
     him: she being examined, Confest the same: the Court ordered that
     she shall receive Twenty one lashes on her bare Backe ... and the
     Court ordered the negroe never more to meddle with any white
     woman more uppon paine of his life."[471]

Advertising for Richard Molson in Philadelphia in 1720, his master said, "He is in company
with a white woman named Mary, who is supposed now goes for his wife"; "and a white man named
Garrett Choise, and Jane his wife, which said white people are servants to some neighbors of
the said Richard Tilghman."[472] In 1722 a woman was punished for abetting a clandestine marriage
between a white woman and a Negro. In the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 1, 1749, appeared the
notice of the departure of Isaac Cromwell, a mulatto, who ran away with an English servant
woman named Anne Greene.[473]

