After all, it is only justice to mention two things at Philadelphia which render it memorable
among exhibitions, and which, I observe in conversation with foreigners who visited it and
are here now, made a great and lasting impression. I do not mean that it had but two, but these
are so frequently referred to that it is fair to cite them specially, even at the risk of a
little repetition as to the first--namely, the wide area and beautiful situation, with the
views of hill and river; the means of approach by carriage-drives through the lovely Park,
those so disposed being able to drive for miles along the water-side, in the groves and to
various commanding points of view on their way to such of the remoter entrances as they might
elect; the railway, which enabled one not only to see the grounds without fatigue, but while
resting from the pedestrian work of the interiors of the buildings; the sense of comfort in
being able to retire for a while to sylvan or floral retreats to digest the thoughts and rest
from seeing. Secondly, the various and ample accommodations offered to the public--the postal
and telegraph facilities; the Department of Public Comfort; the lavatories and retiring-rooms
so abundantly furnished. A Moresque gentleman in turban who was in Philadelphia fairly rubbed
his hands as he referred to the lavish opportunities for washing which were freely given in
Philadelphia, and contrasted them with the state of things here, where it costs ten cents to
wash your hands, and the supply of water is but meagre at that. But he is an African, you know,
and had learned to appreciate water, and plenty of it, in a land where the washing of the face,
hands and feet is among the first civilities offered to a stranger.

A few figures, dry enough in themselves if there were nothing more, will serve as a means of
comparison of the relative spaces under cover. The building on the Champ de Mars is stated
officially to be 650 mètres long by 350 mètres broad, which, reduced to our measurement, will
give 2,447,536 square feet. Deducting 150,000 feet for two enclosed alleys, the area under
roof will be 2,297,536 feet. The area of the five principal buildings at the Centennial Exhibition
was:

                               Square feet.

Main Building.................... 872,320

Machinery Hall..................  504,720

Art-Gallery.....................   76,650

Agricultural Hall................ 442,800

Horticultural Hall...............  73,919

                                1,970,409

So that the difference in favor of Paris is 327,127 feet. In round numbers, the Paris Exposition
building is one-fifth larger than the united areas of the five principal buildings at the Centennial.
Without making a close calculation of the areas of the annexes and detached buildings either
of Philadelphia or Paris, I am disposed to think that the 1876 Exhibition was not in excess
of the present one in this respect. Either exceeds, both in the main buildings and the swarm
of detached structures, any preceding exhibitions. The difference between the Paris exhibitions
of 1867 and 1878 is as 153 is to 240: the London building of 1862 would bear to both the proportion
of 92, without any important annexes.

The high ground on the right bank of the Seine is occupied by the Trocadéro Palace, which faces
that on the Champ de Mars, each building being about five hundred yards from the bank of the
river, which flows in so deep a depression that it is visible from neither building, and the
grounds between the two appear to be continuous, though the bridge suggests the contrary.

The cascade in front of the Trocadéro occupies the site of the old steps by which the steep
hill was ascended, but the ground nearer to the Seine has been so raised that the river-roads
on each side run in subways spanned by bridges, thus permitting free use of the great thoroughfares
without impeding communication between the two portions of the Exposition. Indeed, they appear
as one viewed in either direction, notwithstanding the intervening streets and wide and rapid
river.

The change in the shape of the Trocadéro hill to bring it into a symmetrical position in front
of the Champ de Mars has required the quarrying of twenty-four thousand cubic mètres of rock,
leaving a rough scarp on the northern edge quarried into steps, walks and grottos, with flowers,
ferns and mosses cunningly planted on the ledge and creepers on the walls.

The Trocadéro Palace is the most striking architectural feature of the Exposition. Standing
on a level one hundred and six feet above the Quai de Billy and overlooking the city of Paris,
the dome and glittering minarets of the building are visible from many miles' distance. It
is not easy to describe its architecture, though it is called "half Moorish, half Renaissance;"
which is not very definite. It has a large rotunda capable of accommodating seven thousand
persons, and the river-front has two spacious corridors on as many stories. The central building
is flanked by two tall square campaniles, and from its sides extend long wings which curve
toward the river: these have colonnades and terraces in front overlooking the garden, its picturesque
and grotesque cottages and pavilions, its fountains and its parterres of gay flowers.

The Trocadéro has been purchased by the town council of Paris, and is to be a permanent structure,
its flanking salons, forty-two feet wide, being known as "Galéries de l'Art Rétrospective."
Its collection is to form a history of civilization, and will probably include the Egyptian,
Assyrian and similar collections from the Louvre, as well as the Ethnological, which is at
St. Germain. It is designed to represent in chronological order ancient and historic art, both
liberal and mechanical, with the furniture, arms and tools of the Middle Ages and Renaissance,
arms, implements and fabrics from the East, Africa and Oceanica, and a collection of musical
instruments of all ages and countries. This is an ambitious programme, but will no doubt be
well accomplished. Its general color is that of the beautiful stone of this region, a delicate
cream. The uniformity is broken by great boldness and variety in the structural form of the
building, and by its pillars, deep colonnades and heavy cornices, giving shadows which prevent
monotony of tint.

While artists and architects disagree like the proverbial doctors, and purists shudder at the
jumble of orders, periods and nationalities, a tyro may well hesitate. An opinion of the building
will no more suit everybody than does the building itself; but one cannot entirely forfeit
one's reputation for taste, for each will find some agreeing judgments. All must acknowledge
that it has a gala air. Its central dome, tall minarets and wings widespread toward the river
crown the height and seem to foster the beauties they partly enclose.

The circular corridor of the rotunda is surmounted by the Muses and other figures typical of
the future purposes of the building. The rotunda-walls are themselves castellated, the towers
being interplaced with windows of Saracenic arched form. The béton pavement of the corridors
and balcony is made of annular fragments, facets upward, of black, red, white and slate-colored
marbles, feldspar and other stones. It is as hard as natural rock and as smooth as half-polished
marble. A tessellated fret pattern is made along the borders of the corridor floor, consisting
of triple rows of smooth cubes of marble inserted in the cement. The square balusters are of
red-mottled marble, with base and entablature of dull rose. The square corner pillars support
figures allegorizing the six divisions of the earth.

The vestibules at the sides of the tower are open east and west for the passage to and from
the garden, and at the sides have doors which admit to the Grande Salle and the flanking galleries
respectively. The interior red scagliola columns of the vestibule are in pairs, with white
bases and capitals, the latter combining the lotus-leaf with the volute. The soffits of the
ceiling have panels of yellow with orange border, contrasting with iron beams painted a chocolate
brown.

The uniformity of the long and curved colonnades which form the wings of the building is broken
by square porticoes, which have entrances to the galleries and small terraces in front, with
steps leading to the garden. The wall back of the white pillars of this long promenade is painted
of a warm but not glaring red. The roof is of tile and skylight. The base of the colonnade
beneath the balustrade and pillars is a rough concrete wall hidden by a sloping bank of evergreens,
upon which the eye rests pleasantly amid so much wall-space and architectural decoration.

In front of the corridor of the rotunda is a projecting balcony, with six gigantic female figures
on the corners of its balustrade representing Europe, Asia, North and South America, Africa
and Australia. These statues are of metal gilt, and typify by countenance and accompanying
emblems the portions of the globe they represent. Europe is an armed figure with sword: at
her side are the caduceus, olive-branch, books and easel. Asia has a spear and a couch with
elephant heads. Africa is a negress, with the characteristic grass-rope basket containing dates.
North America is an Indian, but the civilization of the land is indicated by an anchor, beehive
and cog-wheel. Australia is a gin, with a waddy, boomerang and kangaroo. South America sits
on a cotton-bale, has a condor by her side, and at her feet are tropical fruits--pineapples,
bananas and brazil-nuts.

The balustrade of the balcony is of a light marble with faint red mottling, and in front of
it is a boiling pool of water at the level of the hand-rail. A large volume of water overflows
the curved edge of this pool and falls twenty feet into a basin beneath, the first of a series
of nine whose overflows in successive steps form the cascade technically known as a "château
d'eau," the finest of which description of ornamental waterworks is at the Château St. Cloud,
one of the mementos of the fatal luxury which precipitated the Revolution of 1789. The cascade
of St. Cloud plays once a month for half an hour--that at the Exposition during the whole day.
From one jet at St. Cloud issue five thousand gallons per minute: the supply at the Exposition
is twenty-four thousand cubic feet per hour. Most of this water runs over the edge of the balcony-pool,
and the fall of fifty-six cubic feet per second a distance of twenty feet creates no mean roar
and mist in the archway beneath the balcony, where visitors walk behind the falls and look
through the sheet of water. It is not fair to compare at all points the cascades of the Exposition
and St. Cloud. The amount of water may probably not be greatly different, but the fantastic
profusion of spiratory objects and long succession of overflow basins and urns in the works
at the château has no parallel in those of the Trocadéro. The cascades of St. Cloud are disappointing:
the object should be to add to landscape effect by water in motion, and the principle is entirely
missed when the water is made a mere accessory to a series of stone steps, jars and monsters.
Steps are made to walk upon, jars to hold water. An interminable series of either with water
poured over them is not the work of a genius. If the first suggestion to the mind be that a
thing is a stairway, the fact that it is made too wet to walk upon does not constitute it a
beautiful cascade. A row of jars on pedestals around a grass-plat has a pretty effect, because
they do or may hold flowers, but to set several rows of them on a hillside and turn on the
water is not art. As an admirable illustration of fantasy well wrought out the Fountain of
Latona at Versailles may be cited. There Latona, having appealed to Jupiter against the inhabitants
of Argos, who had deprived her of water, is deluged by jets from the unfortunates, who appear
in various degrees of transformation into frogs.

The cascade of the Trocadéro has nothing meretricious about it. It is, like the building of
which it is the finest ornament, of Jura marble, while much of the adjacent work is of artificial
stone so admirably made that one cannot tell the difference, and is disposed to give the preference
to the latter as evincing greater ingenuity than the mere patient chiselling of the quarry-stone.
The pools are symmetrical, in conformity to the style of their surroundings, their overflows
curved, the successive falls being about two feet after the first dash nine hundred and twenty
feet from the balcony level. Each side of the cascade is flanked by six small pools in which
are spouting and spray jets. The course ends in a pool which may be described as square, with
circular bays on three of its sides. In this are one large jet and two smaller ones, which
are themselves beautiful and keep the surface in a pleasant ripple. The corner pillars are
crowned by colossal gilt figures of animals, supposed to represent what we were used to call
the "four quarters of the earth"--Europe, Asia, Africa and America, as the books had it before
America had attained any prominence in public estimation. These are typified by a horse, an
elephant, a rhinoceros and a bull, the latter probably a tribute to our bison, but not much
like him. These face the four winds, so to speak, and do indeed more nearly, as they are set
obliquely, than do the grounds and buildings, the length of which runs north-west and south-east.
Each animal has his back to the pool, and with one exception is in a rampant attitude.

Many thousands of cubic mètres of stone were quarried away to afford a site for the cascade,
for the system of water-pipes which supply the various pools and jets and conduct off the surplus.
The size of the site occupied by these hydraulic works is 360 by 75 feet.

The balcony of the Trocadéro facing toward the river and the Champ de Mars affords the most
extensive view obtainable in the grounds. Beneath is the cascade with its basins and fountains,
and spreading away on each side is the garden with its various national buildings, neat, gaudy
or grotesque. Spanning the invisible roads and river is the broad Pont d'Iéna, and then comes
a repetition of the garden, the sward dotted with parterres and buildings. A broad terrace,
crowned with the splendid façade of the main building, does not quite terminate the view, for
from the height of the lower corridor of the rotunda the buildings of Paris are seen to stretch
away in the distance. The hill of Montmartre on the north and the heights of Chatillon and
Clamart on the south terminate the view in those directions.

The cascade immediately beneath us has been already described, but how shall we give an impression
of the appearance of the buildings collected in groups on each side of the main avenue? So
great is the variety of objects to be presented that any very large unbroken surface of sward
is impossible. The general plan is geometrical, and the absence of large trees on the newly-made
ground has prevented any attempt at woodland scenery.

The French make great use of common flowers in obtaining effects of color. Some square beds
of large size have centres of purple and white stocks, giving a mottled appearance, with a
border of the tender blue forget-me-nots and a fringe of double daisies. Other beds are full
of purple, red and white anemones, multicolored poppies or yellow marigolds. The sober mignonette
is too great a favorite to be excluded, though it lends little to the effect. The gorgeous
rhododendron is here massed in large beds, and there forms a standard tree with a formal clump
of foliage and gay flowers, contrasting with the bright green of the succulent grass. The roses
are by thousands in beds and lining the walks, and here are especially to be seen the standard
roses for which Europe is so famous, but which do not seem to prosper with us.

Besides the flowers and flowering shrubs, a most profuse use is made of evergreens, which are
removed of surprising size and forwardness of spring growth. We can form little conception
from our gardens at home of the wealth, variety and exuberance of the evergreen foliage in
Southern England and Northern France--the Spanish and Portuguese laurel, laurustinus, arbutus,
occuba, bay, hollies in variety, tree-box, with scores of species of pines, firs, arborvitæ
and yews, relieved by the contorted foliage of the auraucarias, the sombre cedar of Lebanon
and the graceful deodar cedar of the Himalayas. As already remarked, the tree-growth is small,
as the ground was a blank and rocky hillside two years ago, and was quarried to make a site
for the garden. The tree which seems best to bear moving, and is consequently used in the emergency,
is the horse-chestnut, the red and white flowering varieties being intermingled. This is perhaps
the most common tree in the streets of Paris, though the plane and maple are also favorites.

Against the rocky scarp on the south of the garden a plantation of aloes, yuccas and cactus
has been made. These are in great variety, and some of them in flower. It was especially pleasant
to see the independence which the gardener has shown in placing a fine clump of rhubarb in
one place where he wanted a green bunch. Some persons would have been afraid of injurious criticism
in the use of so common a plant, but we all know what a vigorous, healthy green it is, and
as such not to be despised by the artist in color. There are a few specialties in the way of
gardening which are worth notice: one is the array of tulips planted by the city of Haarlem,
and representing the municipal coat-of-arms in tulips of every imaginable color of which the
plant is capable, and around the figures the words "Haarlem, Holland," in scarlet tulips on
a ground of white ones.

Another novelty is the Japanese garden with its bamboo fence, the posts and door of entrance
being carved with remarkable taste and boldness. The double gates are surmounted by a cock
and hen in natural attitudes, which is a relief from the absurdities of their impossible storks
and hideous griffins. Perhaps it shows that modern and European ideas are at work there. The
flag of Japan, by the way--a red circle on a white ground--is a sensible design, and can be
seen at a distance: it contrasts favorably with the dragon on a yellow ground of the Chinese
pavilion. The Japanese garden has several large standard umbrellas for permanent shade, and
little bamboo-fenced yards for the game chickens and the ducks. Two shrines are in the garden,
and a fountain with a feeble jet issuing from a stump and falling into a little fanciful pond
with small bays and promontories. On the miniature deep a walnut-shell ship might ride, and
on the shoals near the bank aquatic plants are beginning to sprout, and their leaves will soon
touch the opposite shore if they are not attended to.

Rather a disparagement, as a matter of taste, to the somewhat formal grace but undoubted beauty
of this floral scene are the buildings which are placed here and there over the surface. However,
it is these that we have come to see, for if we were in search of landscape or Dutch gardening
we should find it better elsewhere. This gardening is only a setting, a frame, in which the
various nations have set up their cottages and villas. The ground surface between the houses
has been laid off ornamentally to please the eye and satisfy the sense of order and beauty,
but is not itself the object of which we are in search. It is impossible perhaps to harmonize
such an incongruous set of buildings, adapted for different climates, habits, tastes and needs.
Here on the left is a large white castellated house of Algiers. It has blank walls and loopholed
towers, and no suggestion of a tree or flower, but gives an idea of the land where the sand
of the desert comes up to the doorstep and beggars and thieves go on horseback. On the opposite
extremity, at the right, is a Chinese house with its peculiar curved roof, suggested originally,
doubtless, by the Tartar tent, but having more curves and points than were ever shown by canvas
or felt. In a district by themselves the readers of the Koran--or a set of people passing for
such--have their Persian, Tunisian, Morocco and Turkish kiosques, and the inhabitants seem
perhaps one shade cleaner than they did in Philadelphia. They are supposed, at least, to be
the same, and have an exactly similar lot of rubbish and brass jewelry for sale, and oil of
cassia, which they sell for the attar of the "gardens of Gul in their bloom." Next is a campanile
of Sweden, and near it are the Swedish and Norwegian houses, armed against winter. Then the
Japanese cottage with sides all open, mats on the floors and no furniture to speak of. Then
comes a Moorish pavilion of Spain with nondescript ornaments, the bulbous domes and pinnacles
supporting the flags of yellow and red--of barbaric taste, color and significance.

We have yet to notice the Italian villa, the Oriental mosque, the Swiss chalet and the log
hut; also the modern pavilion with zinc roof, the thatched houses of Britain and of Normandy,
the Elizabethan cottage and the English farm-house. What they lack in size they make up in
variety, may be said of the greenhouses and conservatories dotted about the place. In and outside
of them the marvellous skill and patience of the gardener is seen in the rigidly-formal or
abnormally-directed limbs of the fruit trees. The fish-ponds and fountains are neither numerous
nor large, but the aquarium may merit more extended description when completed.

Standing, sensible-looking and tasteful, in the midst of much that is trumpery, but good enough
for a summer fête, and placed here not as exhibits of good taste, but of what their owners
think good, rises the wooden building with skylight roof of "The Administration of Forests
and Waters." It is on a beautiful knoll, and has a wooden frame with tongued and grooved panels,
the whole varnished to show the natural grain of the timber. On the panels outside are arranged
the tools and implements of arboriculture and forestry.

The flags of the different nations displayed upon these buildings give animation to the scene,
and the glance might pass at once from this panorama to the other side of the Seine, where
the scene is repeated, but for the intervention of long barnlike sheds with tile roofs which
intrude themselves along the banks of the river, and quench the poetry of the fanciful and
picturesque as the eye passes from the immediate foreground and seeks the magnificent façade
of the Salle d'Iéna, the river front of the main building occupying the Champ de Mars. The
flags of all nations are flying from the numerous minor pinnacles, while the six domes on the
ends and centres of the east and west façades display the tricolor of France.

The best view of the exterior is obtained from the Trocadéro. The building itself is so large
that some distance is necessary to take in the whole at a glance. The approach to it by way
of the Pont d'Iéna has been marred by raising the bridge to too great a height, so that the
impression in crossing the Seine is that the building stands upon low ground. Standing upon
the east end of the bridge, one cannot see the base on the other side of the river, which suggests
descent and dwarfs the building. The bridge retains its colossal statuary, each of the four
groups consisting of an unmounted man and a horse. They respectively represent a Greek, Roman,
Gaul and Arab. The bridge was erected to commemorate the victory over the Prussians in 1806,
and Blücher, who had his head-quarters at St. Cloud in 1815, threatened to blow it up. After
crossing the bridge we find ourselves reaching the work-a-day world. On the left are represented
the foundries and workshops of Creuzot, Chaumont and Serrenorri. Near by is a model of the
observatory of Mount Jouvis and an annex of the state tobacco-factory of France.

The building on the Champ de Mars is 2132 feet by 1148. A wide and lofty vestibule runs across
the full extent of each end, and these afford the most imposing interior views of the building.
They are known respectively as the Galérie d'Iéna and Galérie de l'École Militaire, from their
vicinity to the bridge and school respectively. Being lofty themselves, and having central
and flanking domed towers which break the uniformity, their fronts form the principal façades
of the building, of which, architecturally speaking, they are the principal entrances; but
in fact, as happens with buildings of such acreage, the actual inlets depend upon the predominance
in numbers of the people on one or another side of the building, the means of approach by land
and water, and the contiguous streets of favorite and convenient travel. In the present case
the bulk of the people reach the grounds either by water at the south-east corner or by land
at the intersection of Avenue Rapp with the Avenue Bourdonnaye, which latter bounds the Champ
de Mars on its southern side.

The end-vestibules are connected by five longitudinal galleries on each side of the open area
in the middle of the building. The five galleries on the southern side belong to France, and
the five on the northern side are divided by transverse partitions among the foreign nations
present, in very greatly differing quantities. England, for instance, occupies nearly two-sevenths
of the whole space devoted to foreign exhibitors, being more than the sum of the amounts allotted
to Spain, China, Japan, Italy, Sweden, Norway and the United States. The end-vestibules have
curved roofs with highly ornamented ceilings of a succession of flat domes along the centres,
with three rows of deep soffits on each side, gayly painted. The walls are nearly all glass
in iron frames, and the panes of white glass alternate in checkerwork with those having blue
tracery upon them. The whole building is principally of iron and glass, the roof of wood, with
zinc plates and numerous skylights over the interior galleries. The machinery galleries of
each side are much the largest of the longitudinal ones, and have high roofs with side windows
above the levels of the roofs on each side of them; but the four other galleries on each side
of the building have quite low ceilings, which make one fear for the quality of the ventilation
when the heat is at its greatest.

In the interior of the quadrangular building is an open space about two hundred feet broad
and nearly two thousand feet long, reaching from one vestibule to the other; and in this space
are two rows of fine-art pavilions and a building for the exhibition of the municipal works
of the city. This isolated building is in the central portion of the whole structure, the fine-art
pavilions being arranged in line with it, four in a group, the salons of a group connected
by lobbies and also with the large end-vestibules at the end upon which they abut.

The French and foreign sides of the Exposition building on the Champ de Mars have frontages
upon the interior court, and the façades of the foreign sections are made ornamental and are
intended to be characteristic of the countries. There is a great discrepancy in the space assigned
to each: that of Great Britain is the longest, amounting to five hundred and forty feet in
length, while the little territories of Luxembourg, Andorra, Monaco and San Marino, which are
clubbed together, have unitedly about twenty-five feet of frontage. In some cases the space
assigned to a nation does not run back the full four hundred feet to the outside of the building,
but it is intended that each shall have some part of the façade in this allée. Much taste and
more expense have been lavished upon the architectural construction and embellishment of the
façades, and the row reminds one of the scenes in a theatre, where palace, cottage, mosque
and jail stand side by side, giving a particolored effect as various as the different emotions
which the respective buildings might be supposed to elicit. The English space being so large,
no single design was adopted, as it could have but a monotonous effect, but the frontage was
divided into five portions, each of which illustrates some style of villa or cottage architecture,
and is separated from the adjoining one by garden-beds. The first, counting from the Salle
de la Seine, is of the style of Queen Anne's reign. It is built of a patented imitation of
red brickwork. Thin slabs of Portland cement concrete are faced with smaller slabs of red concrete
of the size of bricks and screwed to the wooden frame of the building. The house has tall casements
in a bay with a balcony, and an entablature on top of the wall. The second house is the pavilion
of the prince of Wales, and is of the Elizabethan style. It is built of rubble-work faced with
colored plaster in imitation of red brickwork and Bath-stone dressings. The front has niches
for statuary, and above the windows are shield-shaped panels for armorial bearings. The windows
are in square clusters, with small lights in hexagonal leaden cames. The union jack flies from
the staff. The third house is constructed of red brick and terra-cotta, and is not specially
characteristic of any period. It is, in fact, a jumble of the early Gothic with a Moorish entablature
and a balustrade parapet. The stained-glass casement windows are surmounted with circular lights
in the arches. The fourth house is built of pitch-pine framework, enriched with carving and
filled in with plaster panels--a style of construction known as "half-timbered work," much
employed in England from the fifteenth to the seventeenth century. This house is placed at
the disposal of the Canadian commissioners. It has a large square two-story bay-window, with
the customary small glass panes in cames of lozenge and other patterns, and is perhaps the
neatest and most cozy house in the row. The fifth is of the construction of an English country-house
in the reign of William III. It is of timber, with stucco and rough-cast panels, and has a
large bay-window in the second story, surmounted by a gable to the street and covering an old-fashioned
stoop with seats on each side. The five houses have a pretty effect, and each has a home look.
The façades only are on exhibition, the interiors being private. They contrast with others
in the "street" in the same way as the habits of the different peoples. Some build their houses
to retire into, and others to exhibit themselves. Each nation being asked for the façade of
a house, the Italian has built a portico where he can lounge, see and be seen; the Englishman
has in all serenity represented what he deems comfort, and shuts the front door.

The next in order is the United States house, which is plain and commodious; the latch-string
would be out, but that the front door is everlastingly open. The style is perhaps to advertise
to the world that we have not yet had time to invent an order of architecture or devise anything
adapted to our climate, which has extremes utterly unknown to our ancestors in Britain. The
building is light and airy, has office-rooms on each floor, and is described by one English
paper as "a sort of school-building which combines elegance with usefulness." Another paper
states that "it exemplifies the utilitarian notions of our Transatlantic cousins rather than
any artistic intent." These comments are as favorable as anything we ourselves can say: we
accept the verdict with thanks and think we have got off pretty well. In the squareness of
its general lines, with arched windows on the second floor and square tower over the centre,
perhaps the architect thought it was Italian. Sixteen coats-of-arms on the outside excite admiration.

The building of Norway and Sweden is a charming cottage of handsome and ample proportions.
It has three sections: one of two stories with low-pitched roof, and gable to the street, a
middle structure with colonnade, and one of three stories with high-pitched roof. The windows
are round-topped, made in an ingenious way, the upper member being an arched piece with sloping
ends, to match the springing on the tops of the posts which divide the openings. The horizontal
and vertical bands are enriched by carving.

The façade of Italy may be pronounced pretentious and disappointing. It is constructed of various
kinds of unpolished marble and terra-cotta panels. A tall archway is flanked by two wings having
each two smaller arches, the entablatures of which are enriched, if we must so term it, with
gaudy mosaic figures, portraits and heraldic bearings, while the spans of the arches surmount
pyramidal groups of emblems, scientific, medical, lyrical and so forth. Red curtains with heavy
gilt cords and tassels behind the arches throw the columns with composition (not Composite)
capitals and the emblems into high relief. Beneath the centre arch is the armorial bearing
of the country. The vestibules display statuary.

Japan has a quaint little house with a very massive gateway of solid timber, flanked by two
characteristic fountains of terra-cotta. These represent stumps of trees, with gigantic lily-cups,
leaves of water-lilies, and frogs in grotesque attitudes in and around the water.

China has a grotesque house, painted in imitation of octagonal slate-colored bricks, covered
with a pagoda-roof full of curves and points. The red door has rows of large knobs and is surmounted
by colored and gilded carvings, representing genii probably. The pointed flag has in a yellow
field a blue dragon in the later stages of consumption.

Spain has a Moorish building rich in gold and color--a central portion with Italian roof, and
two colonnade side-sections flanked by castellated towers. Five forms of arches span the doors
and windows, and the artist has contrived to associate all forms of ornament, running from
an approach to the Greek fret down through the Arabesque to the Brussels carpet.

Austro-Hungary has a long colonnade of white stone ornamented with black filigree-work and
supported by columns in pairs. The entablature is surmounted by a row of statues, and the end-towers
have parapets with balustrade. The colonnade, with a chocolate-brown back wall, affords shelter
and relief for bronze and marble statuary. At each end of this façade is a tall flagstaff striped
like a barber's pole, and so familiar to all who have visited the Austrian stations, at Trieste,
for example. From it flies the flag of horizontal stripes of red, white and green, with the
shield of many quarterings and two angelic supporters.

Russia has a log-and-frame house of somewhat more than average picturesque character. The projecting
centres and wing-towers, the outside staircase, and roofs conical, flat, pyramidal, bulbous
and Oriental, give it a miscellaneous toyshop appearance, characteristic perhaps of the mosaic
character of the nation. Barge-boards and brackets of various cheap patterns are plentifully
strewed over the building.

Passing from the Russian to the Swiss building suggests inevitably Mr. Mantalini's description
of his former chères amies: "The two countesses had no outline at all, and the dowager's was
a demmed outline." A semicircular archway, over which is a high-flying arch with a roof of
six slopes surmounted by a bell-tower and pinnacle roof; on the pillars two lions supporting
a red shield with white Greek cross in the field; two wings with flat arches containing gorgeous
stained-glass windows. But what avails description? There are twenty-two armorial bearings
on the spandrils of the arches, beating the United States by six; but we had only room for
the original thirteen, the United States and two more. Oh that they had granted us more space!
High up aloft is the motto Un pour tous, tons pour un, which was adopted by the French Commune.

Belgium is pre-eminent in the whole row, if expense determines. This country has about three
times as much space in the building as the United States, and has worthily filled it. The Belgian
façade on the "Street of Nations" is reputed to have cost nearly as much as the whole appropriation
made by Congress for the United States exhibit. It is of dark red brick with gray stone quoins
and corners and blue and gray marble pillars. The centre building is joined by two colonnades
to a flanking tower at one end and an ornate gable at the other. The style is one familiar
in the times when the great William of Orange was alive, and was to some extent introduced
into England soon after another William took the place of his bigoted father-in-law. It cannot
be denied that the general effect is gray, sombre and uncomfortable--that it is too much crowded
with objects, and, though of admirable and enduring materials, suggests a spasmodic attempt
to assimilate itself to the gala character of the occasion which called it forth. It is the
saturnine one of the row. It is said that the pieces are numbered for re-erection in some other
place.

Greece has an Athenian house painfully crude in color, white picked out with all the hues of
the rainbow and some others, suggesting muddy coffee and chibouques.

Denmark has about twenty feet of front, utilized by a gable-end of brick with facings of imitation
stone.

The Central American States have about sixty feet of yellow front, with three arched openings
into the vestibule, which is flanked by a tower and a gable.

Anam, Persia, Siam, Morocco and Tunis have unitedly a gingerbread affair of four distinct patterns--we
cannot call them styles. Siam in the centre has a chocolate-colored tower picked out with silver,
and surmounted by a triple pagoda roof, whence floats the flag, a white elephant in a red field.
The six feet of homeliness belonging to Tunis has a balcony of wood which neither reveals nor
hides the almond-eyed whose supposed relatives are selling trumpery in booths on the other
side of the Seine.

Luxembourg, Andorra, Monaco and San Marino unite in a façade representing the different styles
of architecture which prevail in the several states: 1. A portion faintly suggesting the ancient
palace of Luxembourg, to-day the residence of Prince Henry of Holland; 2. An entrance erected
by the principality of Monaco as the model of that of the royal palace; 3. A window contributed
by San Marino, and showing that the prevalent type in the little republic is more useful than
ornamental; 4. A balustrade surmounting the façade, supplied by the republic of Andorra.

Portugal has an imitation in cream-colored plaster of a Gothic church-entrance, and a highly-enriched
arch with flanking towers, whose canopied niches have figures of warriors and wise men.

Holland shows an architecture of two hundred years ago, the counterpart of the houses we see
in the old Dutch pictures. It is of dark red brick with stone courses, and a tall slate roof
behind its balustered parapet.

We are at the end of the Street of Nations, somewhat under a third of a mile in length.

It is evening, and the sun in this latitude--for we are farther north than Quebec--seems in
no hurry to reach the horizon. Two hours ago the whistle sounded "No more steam," and the life
of the building went out. The attendants, tired of the show and blasés or "used up," according
to their nationality, with exhibitions, have shrouded their cases in sack-cloth and gone to
sip ordinaire, absinthe or bitter ale. I sit on a terrace of the Champ de Mars, the gorgeous
building at my back, and look riverward. Before me stretches away the green carpet of sward
one hundred feet wide and six hundred long, a broad level band of emerald reaching to the gravel
approach to the Pont d'Iéna, each side of which is guarded by a colossal figure of a man leading
a horse. The gravel around the tapis vert is black with the figures of those whom the fineness
of the evening has induced to take a parting stroll in the ground before retiring.

Flanking the gravel-walks the ground is more uneven, and Art, in imitation of the wilder aspects
of Nature, has done what the limited space permitted to enhance the allied beauties of land
and water, where

  Each gives each a double charm,
  Like pearls upon an Ethiop's arm.

On the left is a rockery and waterfall on no mean scale, with a romantic little lake in front.
On the right a rocky island in a corresponding lake is crowned with a thatched pavilion, the
reflection of which shines broken in the water ruffled by the evening breeze. Groups of detached
buildings hem in the view on each side, and their flags wave with the sky for a background.
Paris is invisible: at this point the grounds are isolated from outside view.

Rising clear beyond the bridge, the approach to it on the other side hidden by the lowness
of the point of view, stands the palace of the Trocadéro, a broad sweep of green covering the
hill, along whose summit are the widespread wings of the colonnade, uniting at the central
rotunda, of which the domed roof and square campaniles rise one hundred feet above all and
dominate the middle of the picture. The traces of the indefatigable swarms of workmen are obliterated,
except in the magical and finished work. The spray of the fountains of the château d'eau drifts
to leeward and hides at times patches of the velvety grass on the hill. The central jet plays
sturdily, and from where I sit appears to reach the level of the second corridor of the rotunda.

The eye fails to detect a single object, excepting the four statues on the bridge, which is
not the creation of a few months. The hill beyond has been torn to pieces and sloped, and the
palace built upon it. Every house in sight is new. The very ground in front on which I look
down has been raised, and the terrace on which I sit has been built. The ponds have been excavated,
the mimic rocky hills have been piled up, and the water led to the brink of the tiny precipice
from the artesian wells which supply this part of Paris.

The hum of many voices and the dash of waters make a deep undertone, and one comes away with
the feeling--not exactly that the scene is too good to last, but--of regret that the result
of such lavish care should be ephemeral. In a few months all on the left side of the river
may again be parade-ground, and the thirty thousand troops which can be readily man[oe]uvred
upon it be getting ready for another conflict, while the palace which the Genius of the Lamp
had builded, as in a night, shall be a thing of the past, as if whirled away by the malevolent
magician.

EDWARD H. KNIGHT.

  SENIORITY.

  Child! Such thou seemest to me that am more old
      In sorrow than in years,
  With that long pain that turns us bitter cold,
      Far worse than these hot tears

  Of thine, that fall so fast upon my breast.
      I know they ease thy grief:
  I know they comfort, and will bring thee rest,
      Thou poor wind-shaken leaf!

  Ah yes, thy storm will pass, thy skies will clear.
      Thou smilest beneath my kiss:
  Lift up the blue eyes cleansed by weeping, dear,
      Of every thought amiss.

  What seest thou, child, in these dry eyes of mine?
      Grief that hath spent its tears--
  Grief that its right to weeping must resign,
      Not told by days, but years.

  The bitterest is that weeping of the heart
      That mounts not to the eyes:
  In its lone chamber we sit down apart,
      And no one hears our cries.

  It comes to this with every deep, true soul:
      'Tis neither kill nor cure,
  But a strong sorrow held in strong control,
      A girding to endure.

  For no such soul lives in this tangled world
      But, like Achilles' heel,
  Hath in the quick a shaft too truly hurled--
      Flesh growing round the steel.

  And with its outcome would come all Life's flood:
      Joy is so twined with pain,
  Sweetness and tears so blended in our blood,
      They will not part again.

  For at the last the heart grows round its grief,
      And holds it without strife:
  So used we are, we cry not for relief,
      For we know all of life.

  And this is why I kiss thy tear-wet eyes,
      Nor think thy grief so great.
  Thou untried child! at every fresh surprise
      Thy heart springs to the gate.

  HOWARD GLYNDON.

"FOR PERCIVAL."

CHAPTER XXXV.

OF THE LANDLADY'S DAUGHTER.

Early in that December the landlady's daughter came home. Percival could not fix the precise
date, but he knew it was early in the month, because about the eighth or ninth he was suddenly
aware that he had more than once encountered a smile, a long curl and a pair of turquoise earrings
on the stairs. He had noticed the earrings: he could speak positively as to them. He had seen
turquoises before, and taken little heed of them, but possibly his friends had happened to
buy rather small ones. He felt pretty certain about the long curl. And he thought there was
a smile, but he was not so absolutely sure of the smile.

By the twelfth he was quite sure of it. It seemed to him that it was cold work for any one
to be so continually on the stairs in December. The owner of the smile had said, "Good-morning,
Mr. Thorne."

On the thirteenth a question suggested itself to him: "Was she--could she be--always running
up and down stairs? Or did it happen that just when he went out and came back--?" He balanced
his pen in his fingers for a minute, and sat pondering. "Oh, confound it!" he said to himself,
and went on writing.

That evening he left the office to the minute, and hurried to Bellevue street. He got halfway
up the stairs and met no one, but he heard a voice on the landing exclaim, "Go to old Fordham's
caddy, then, for you sha'n't--Oh, good gracious!" and there was a hurried rustle. He went more
slowly the rest of the way, reflecting. Fordham was another lodger--elderly, as the voice had
said. Percival went to his sitting-room and looked thoughtfully into his tea-caddy. It was
nearly half full, and he calculated that, according to the ordinary rate of consumption, it
should have been empty, and yet he had not been more sparing than usual. His landlady had told
him where to get his tea: she said she found it cheap--it was a fine-flavored tea, and she
always drank it. Percival supposed so, and wondered where old Fordham got his tea, and whether
that was fine-flavored too.

There was a giggle outside the door, a knock, and in answer to Percival's "Come in," the landlady's
daughter appeared. She explained that Emma had gone out shopping--Emma was the grimy girl who
ordinarily waited on him--so, with a nervous little laugh, with a toss of the long curl, which
was supposed to have got in the way somehow, and with the turquoise earrings quivering in the
candlelight, she brought in the tray. She conveyed by her manner that it was a new and amusing
experience in her life, but that the burden was almost more than her strength could support,
and that she required assistance. Percival, who had stood up when she came in and thanked her
gravely from his position on the hearthrug, came forward and swept some books and papers out
of the way to make room for her load. In so doing their hands touched--his white and beautifully
shaped, hers clumsy and coarsely colored. (It was not poor Lydia's fault. She had written to
more than one of those amiable editors who devote a column or two in family magazines to settling
questions of etiquette, giving recipes for pomades and puddings, and telling you how you may
take stains out of silk, get rid of freckles or know whether a young man means anything by
his attentions. There had been a little paragraph beginning, "L.'s hands are not as white as
she could wish, and she asks us what she is to do. We can only recommend," etc. Poor L. had
tried every recommendation in faith and in vain, and was in a fair way to learn the hopelessness
of her quest.)

The touch thrilled her with pleasure and Thorne with repugnance. He drew back, while she busied
herself in arranging his cup, saucer and plate. She dropped the spoon on the tray, scolded
herself for her own stupidity, looked up at him with a hurried apology, and laughed. If she
did not blush, she conveyed by her manner a sort of idea of blushing, and went out of the room
with a final giggle, being confused by his opening the door for her.

Percival breathed again, relieved from an oppression, and wondered what on earth had made her
take an interest in his tea and him. Yet the reason was not far to seek. It was that tragic,
melancholy, hero's face of his--he felt so little like a hero that it was hard for him to realize
that he looked like one--his sombre eyes, which might have been those of an exile thinking
of his home, the air of proud and rather old-fashioned courtesy which he had inherited from
his grandfather the rector and developed for himself. Every girl is ready to find something
of the prince in one who treats her with deference as if she were a princess. Percival had
an unconscious grace of bearing and attitude, and the considerable advantage of well-made clothes.
Poverty had not yet reduced him to cheap coats and advertised trousers. And perhaps the crowning
fascination in poor Lydia's eyes was the slight, dark, silky moustache which emphasized without
hiding his lips.

Another rustling outside, a giggle and a whisper--Percival would have sworn that the whisper
was Emma's if it had been possible that she could have left it behind her when she went out
shopping--an ejaculation, "Gracious! I've blacked my hand!" a pause, presumably for the purpose
of removing the stain, and Lydia reappeared with the kettle. She poured a portion of its contents
over the fender in her anxiety to plant it firmly on the fire. "Oh dear!" she exclaimed, "how
stupid of me! Oh, Mr. Thorne"--this half archly, half pensively, fingering the curl and surveying
the steaming pool--"I'm afraid you'll wish Emma hadn't gone out: such a mess as I've made of
it! What will you think of me?"

"Pray, don't trouble yourself," said Percival. "The fender can't signify, except perhaps from
Emma's point of view. It doesn't interfere with my comfort, I assure you."

She departed, only half convinced. Percival, with another sigh of relief, proceeded to make
the tea. The water was boiling and the fire good. Emma was apt to set a chilly kettle on a
glimmering spark, but Lydia treated him better. The bit of cold meat on the table looked bigger
than he expected, the butter wore a cheerful sprig of green. Percival saw his advantages, but
he thought them dearly bought, especially as he had to take a turn up and down Bellevue street
while the table was cleared.

After that day it was astonishing how often Emma went out shopping or was busy, or had a bad
finger or a bad foot, or was helping ma with something or other, or hadn't made herself tidy,
so that Lydia had to wait on Mr. Thorne. But it was always with the same air of its being something
very droll and amusing to do, and there were always some artless mistakes which required giggling
apologies. Nor could he doubt that he was in her thoughts during his absence. She had a piano
down stairs on which she accompanied herself as she sang, but she found time for domestic cares.
His buttons were carefully sewn on and his fire was always bright. One evening his table was
adorned with a bright blue vase--as blue as Lydia's earrings--filled with dried grasses and
paper flowers. He gazed blankly at it in unspeakable horror, and then paced up and down the
room, wondering how he should endure life with it continually before his eyes. Some books lay
on a side-table, and as he passed he looked absently at them and halted. On his Shelley, slightly
askew, as if to preclude all thought of care and design, lay a little volume bound in dingy
white and gold. Percival did not touch it, but he stooped and read the title, The Language
of Flowers, and saw that--purely by accident of course--a leaf was doubled down as if to mark
a place. He straightened himself again, and his proud lip curled in disgust as he glanced from
the tawdry flowers to the tawdry book. And from below came suddenly the jingling notes of Lydia's
piano and Lydia's voice--not exactly harsh and only occasionally out of tune, but with something
hopelessly vulgar in its intonation--singing her favorite song--

  Oh, if I had some one to love me,
    My troubles and trials to share!

Percival turned his back on the blue vase and the little book, and flinging himself into a
chair before the fire sickened at the thought of the life he was doomed to lead. Lydia, who
was just mounting with a little uncertainty to a high note, was a good girl in her way, and
good-looking, and had a kind sympathy for him in his evident loneliness. But was she to be
the highest type of womanhood that he would meet henceforth? And was Bellevue street to be
his world? He glided into a mournful dream of Brackenhill, which would never be his, and of
Sissy, who had loved him so well, yet failed to love him altogether--Sissy, who had begged
for her freedom with such tender pain in her voice while she pierced him so cruelly with her
frightened eyes. Percival looked very stern in his sadness as he sat brooding over his fire,
while from the room below came a triumphant burst of song--

  But I will marry my own love,
    For true of heart am I.

Sometimes he would picture to himself the future which lay before Horace's three-months-old
child, whose little life already played so all--important a part in his own destiny. He had
questioned Hammond about him, and Hammond had replied that he heard that Lottie and the boy
were both doing well. "They say that the child is a regular Blake, just like Lottie herself,"
said Godfrey, "and doesn't look like a Thorne at all." Percival thought, not unkindly, of Lottie's
boy, of Lottie's great clear eyes in an innocent baby face, and imagined him growing up slim
and tall, to range the woods of Brackenhill in future years as Lottie herself had wandered
in the copses about Fordborough. And yet sometimes he could not but think of the change that
it might make if little James William Thorne were to die. Horace was very ill, they said: Brackenhill
was shut up, and they had all gone to winter abroad. The doctors had declared that there was
not a chance for him in England.

At this time Percival kept a sort of rough diary. Here is a leaf from it: "I am much troubled
by a certain little devil who comes as soon as I am safely in bed and sits on my pillow. He
flattens it abominably, or else I do it myself tossing about in my impatience. He is quite
still for a minute or two, and I try my best to think he isn't there at all. Then he stoops
down and whispers in my ear 'Convulsions!' and starts up again like india-rubber. I won't listen.
I recall some tune or other: it won't come, and there is a hitch, a horrible blank, in the
midst of which he is down again--I knew he would be--suggesting 'Croup.' I repeat some bit
of a poem, but it won't do: what is the next line? I think of old days with my father, when
I knew nothing of Brackenhill: I try to remember my mother's face. I am getting on very well,
but all at once I become conscious that he has been for some time murmuring, as to himself,
'Whooping-cough and scarlet fever--scarlet fever.' I grow fierce, and say, 'I pray God he may
escape them all!' To which he softly replies, 'His grandfather died--his father is dying--of
decline.'

"I roll over to the other side, and encounter him or his twin brother there. A perfectly silent
little devil this time, with a faculty for calling up pictures. He shows me the office: I see
it, I smell it, with its flaring gaslights and sickly atmosphere. Then he shows me the long
drawing-room at Brackenhill, the quaint old furniture, the pictures on the walls, the terrace
with its balustrade and balls of mossy stone, and through the windows come odors of jasmine
and roses and far-off fields, while inside there is the sweetness of dried blossoms and spices
in the great china jars. A moment more and it is Bellevue street, with its rows of hideous
whited houses. And then again it is a river, curving swiftly and grandly between its castled
rocks, or a bridge of many arches in the twilight, and the lights coming out one by one in
the old walled town, and the road and river travelling one knows not where, into regions just
falling asleep in the quiet dusk. Or there is a holiday crowd, a moonlit ferry, steep wooded
hills, and songs and laughter which echo in the streets and float across the tide. Or the Alps,
keenly cut against the infinite depth of blue, with a whiteness and a far-off glory no tongue
can utter. Or a solemn cathedral, or a busy town piled up, with church and castle high aloft
and a still, transparent lake below. But through it all, and underlying it all, is Bellevue
street, with the dirty men and women, who scream and shout at each other and wrangle in its
filthy courts and alleys. Still, God knows that I don't repent, and that I wish my little cousin
well."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

WANTED--AN ORGANIST.

In later days Percival looked back to that Christmas as his worst and darkest time. His pride
had grown morbid, and he swore to himself that he would never give in--that Horace should never
know him otherwise than self-sufficient, should never think that but for Mrs. Middleton's or
Godfrey Hammond's charity he might have had his cousin as a pensioner. Brooding on thoughts
such as these, he sauntered moodily beneath the lamps when the new year was but two days old.

His progress was stopped by a little crowd collected on the pavement. There was a concert,
and a string of carriages stretched halfway down the street. Just as Percival came up, a girl
in white and amber, with flowers in her hair, flitted hurriedly across the path and up the
steps, and stood glancing back while a fair-haired, faultlessly-dressed young man helped her
mother to alight. The father came last, sleek, stout and important. The old people went on
in front, and the girl followed with her cavalier, looking up at him and making some bright
little speech as they vanished into the building. Percival stood and gazed for a moment, then
turned round and hurried out of the crowd. The grace and freshness and happy beauty of the
girl had roused a fierce longing in his heart. He wanted to touch a lady's hand again, to hear
the delicate accents of a lady's voice. He remembered how he used to dress himself as that
fair-haired young man was dressed, and escort Aunt Harriet and Sissy to Fordborough entertainments,
where the best places were always kept for the Brackenhill party. It was dull enough sometimes,
yet how he longed for one such evening now--to hand the cups once again at afternoon tea, to
talk just a little with some girl on the old terms of equality! The longing was not the less
real, and even passionate, that it seemed to Thorne himself to be utterly absurd. He mocked
at himself as he walked the streets for a couple of hours, and then went back when the concert
was just over and the people coming away. He watched till the girl appeared. She looked a little
tired, he fancied. As she came out into the chill night air she drew a soft white cloak round
her, and went by, quite unconscious of the dark young man who stood near the door and followed
her with his eyes. The sombre apparition might have startled her had she noticed it, though
Percival was only gazing at the ghost of his dead life, and, having seen it, disappeared into
the shadows once more.

"The night is darkest before the morn." In Percival's case this was true, for the next day
brought a new interest and hope. A letter came from Godfrey Hammond, through which he glanced
wearily till he came to a paragraph about the Lisles: Hammond had seen a good deal of them
lately. "Their father treated you shamefully," he wrote, "but, after all, it is harder still
on his children." ("Good Heavens! Does he suppose I have a grudge against them?" said Percival
to himself, and laughed with mingled irritation and amazement.) "Young Lisle wants a situation
as organist somewhere where he might give lessons and make an income so, but we can't hear
of anything suitable. People say the boy is a musical genius, and will do wonders, but, for
my part, I doubt it. He may, however, and in that case there will be a line in his biography
to the effect that I 'was one of the first to discern,' etc., which may be gratifying to me
in my second childhood."

Percival laid the letter on the table and looked up with kindling eyes.

Only a few minutes' walk from Bellevue street was St. Sylvester's, a large district church.
The building was a distinguished example of cheap ecclesiastical work, with stripes and other
pretty patterns in different colored bricks, and varnished deal fittings and patent corrugated
roofing. All that could be done to stimulate devotion by means of texts painted in red and
blue had been done, and St. Sylvester's, within and without, was one of those nineteenth-century
churches which will doubtless be studied with interest and wonder by the architect of a future
age if they can only contrive to stand up till he comes. The incumbent was High Church, as
a matter of course, and musical, more than as a matter of course. Percival looked up from his
letter with a sudden remembrance that Mr. Clifton was advertising for an organist, and on his
way to the office he stopped to make inquiries at the High Church bookseller's and to post
a line to Hammond. How if this should suit Bertie Lisle? He tried hard not to think too much
about it, but the mere possibility that the bright young fellow, with his day-dreams, his unfinished
opera, his pleasant voice and happily thoughtless talk, might come into his life gave Percival
a new interest in it. Bertie had been a favorite of his years before, when he used to go sometimes
to Mr. Lisle's. He still thought of him as little more than a boy--the boy who used to play
to him in the twilight--and he had some trouble to realize that Bertie must be nearly two and
twenty. If he should come--But most likely he would not come. It seemed a shame even to wish
to shut up the young musician, with his love for all that was beautiful and bright, in that
grimy town. Thorne resolved that he would not wish it, but he opened Hammond's next letter
with unusual eagerness. Godfrey said they thought it sounded well, especially as when he named
Brenthill it appeared that the Lisles had some sort of acquaintance living there, an old friend
of their mother's, he believed, which naturally gave them an interest in the place. Bertie
had written to Mr. Clifton, who would very shortly be in town, and had made an appointment
to meet him.

The next news came in a note from Lisle himself. On the first page there was a pen-and-ink
portrait of the incumbent of St. Sylvester's with a nimbus, and it was elaborately dated "Festival
of St. Hilary."

"It is all as good as settled," was his triumphant announcement, "and we are in luck's way,
for Judith thinks she has heard of something for herself too. You will see from my sketch that
I have had my interview with Mr. Clifton. He is quite delighted with me. A great judge of character,
that man! He is to write to one or two references I gave him, but they are sure to be all right,
for my friends have been so bored with me and my prospects for the last few weeks that they
would swear to my fitness for heaven if it would only send me there. I rather think, however,
that St. Sylvester's will suit me better for a little while. His Reverence is going to look
me up some pupils, and I have bought a Churchman's almanac, and am thinking about starting
an oratorio instead of my opera. Wasn't it strange that when your letter came from Brenthill
we should remember that an old friend of my mother's lived there? Judith and she have been
writing to each other ever since. Clifton is evidently undergoing tortures with the man he
has got now, so I should not wonder if we are at Brenthill in a few days. It will be better
for my chance of pupils too. I shall look you up without fail, and expect you to know everything
about lodgings. How about Bellevue street? Are you far from St. Sylvester's?"

Thorne read the letter carefully, and drew from it two conclusions and a perplexity. He concluded
that Bertie Lisle's elastic spirits had quickly recovered the shock of his father's failure
and flight, and that he had not the faintest idea that any property of his--Percival's--had
gone down in the wreck. So much the better.

His perplexity was, What was Miss Lisle going to do? Could the "we" who were to arrive imply
that she meant to accompany her brother? And what was the something she had heard of for herself?
The words haunted him. Was the ruin so complete that she too must face the world and earn her
own living? A sense of cruel wrong stirred in his inmost soul.

He made up his mind at last that she was coming to establish Bertie in his lodgings before
she went on her own way. He offered any help in his power when he answered the letter, but
he added a postscript: "Don't think of Bellevue street: you wouldn't like it." He heard no
more till one day he came back to his early dinner and found a sealed envelope on his table.
It contained a half sheet of paper, on which Bertie had scrawled in pencil, "Why did you abuse
Bellevue street? We think it will do. And why didn't you say there were rooms in this very
house? We have taken them, so there is an end of your peaceful solitude. I'm going to practise
for ever and ever. If you don't like it there's no reason why you shouldn't leave: it's a free
country, they say."

Percival looked round his room. She had been there, then?--perhaps had stood where he was standing.
His glance fell on the turquoise-blue vase and the artificial flowers, and he colored as if
he were Lydia's accomplice. Had she seen those and the Language of Flowers?

As if his thought had summoned her, Lydia herself appeared to lay the cloth for his dinner.
She looked quickly round: "Did you see your note, Mr. Thorne?"

"Thank you, yes," said Percival.

"I supposed it was right to show them in here to write it--wasn't it?" she asked after a pause.
"He said he knew you very well."

"Quite right, certainly."

"A very pleasant-spoken young gentleman, ain't he?" said Miss Bryant, setting down a salt-cellar.

"Very," said Percival.

"Coming to play the High Church organ, he tells me," Lydia continued, as if the instrument
in question were somehow saturated with ritualism.

"Yes--at St. Sylvester's."

Lydia looked at him, but he was gazing into the fire. She went out, came back with a dish,
shook her curl out of the way, and tried again: "I suppose we're to thank you for recommending
the lodgings--ain't we, Mr. Thorne? I'm sure ma's much obliged to you. And I'm glad"--this
with a bashful glance--"that you felt you could. It seems as if we'd given satisfaction."

"Certainly," said Percival. "But you mustn't thank me in this case, Miss Bryant. I really didn't
know what sort of lodgings my friend wanted. But of course I'm glad Mr. Lisle is coming here."

"And ain't you glad Miss Lisle is coming too, Mr. Thorne?" said Lydia very archly. But she
watched him, lynx-eyed.

He uttered no word of surprise, but he could not quite control the muscles of his face, and
a momentary light leapt into his eyes. "I wasn't aware Miss Lisle was coming," he said.

Lydia believed him. "That's true," she thought, "but you're precious glad." And she added aloud,
"Then the pleasure comes all the more unexpected, don't it?" She looked sideways at Percival
and lowered her voice: "P'r'aps Miss Lisle meant a little surprise."

Percival returned her glance with a grave scorn which she hardly understood. "My dinner is
ready?" he said. "Thank you, Miss Bryant." And Lydia flounced out of the room, half indignant,
half sorrowful: "He didn't know--that's true. But she knows what she's after, very well. Don't
tell me!" To Lydia, at this moment, it seemed as if every girl must be seeking what she sought.
"And I call it very bold of her to come poking herself where she isn't wanted--running after
a young man. I'd be ashamed." A longing to scratch Miss Lisle's face was mixed with a longing
to have a good cry, for she was honestly suffering the pangs of unrequited love. It is true
that it was not for the first time. The curl, the earrings, the songs, the Language of Flowers,
had done duty more than once before. But wounds may be painful without being deep, although
the fact of these former healings might prevent all fear of any fatal ending to this later
love. Lydia was very unhappy as she went down stairs, though if another hero could be found
she was perhaps half conscious that the melancholy part of her present love-story might be
somewhat abridged.

The streets seemed changed to Percival as he went back to his work. Their ugliness was as bare
and as repulsive as ever, but he understood now that the houses might hold human beings, his
brothers and his sisters, since some one roof among them sheltered Judith Lisle. Thus he emerged
from the alien swarm amid which he had walked in solitude so many days. Above the dull and
miry ways were the beauty of her gray-blue eyes and the glory of her golden hair. He felt as
if a white dove had lighted on the town, yet he laughed at his own feelings; for what did he
know of her? He had seen her twice, and her father had swindled him out of his money.

Never had his work seemed so tedious, and never had he hurried so quickly to Bellevue street
as he did when it was over. The door of No. 13 stood open, and young Lisle stood on the threshold.
There was no mistaking him. His face had changed from the beautiful chorister type of two or
three years earlier, but Percival thought him handsomer than ever. He ceased his soft whistling
and held out his hand: "Thorne! At last! I was looking out for you the other way."

Thorne could hardly find time to greet him before he questioned eagerly, "You have really taken
the rooms here?"

"Really and truly. What's wrong? Anything against the landlady?"

"No," said Percival. "She's honest enough, and fairly obliging, and all the rest of it. But
then your sister is not coming here to live with you, as they told me? That was a mistake?"

"Not a bit of it. She's coming: in fact, she's here."

"In Bellevue street?" Percival looked up and down the dreary thoroughfare. "But, Lisle, what
a place to bring her to!"

"Beggars mustn't be choosers," said Bertie. "We are not exactly what you would call rolling
in riches just now. And Bellevue street happens to be about midway between St. Sylvester's
and Standon Square, so it will suit us both."

"Standon Square?" Percival repeated.

"Yes. Oh, didn't I tell you? My mother came to school at Brenthill. It was her old schoolmistress
we remembered lived here when we had your letter. So we wrote to her, and the old dear not
only promised me some pupils, but it is settled that Judith is to go and teach there every
day. Judith thinks we ought to stick to one another, we two."

"You're a lucky fellow," said Percival. "You don't know, and won't know, what loneliness is here."

"But how do you come to know anything about it? That's what I can't understand. I thought your
grandfather died last summer?"

"So he did."

"But I thought you were to come in for no end of money?"

"I didn't, you see."

"But surely he always allowed you a lot," said Lisle, still unsatisfied. "You never used to
talk of doing anything."

"No, but I found I must. The fact is, I'm not on the best terms with my cousin at Brackenhill,
and I made up my mind to be independent. Consequently, I'm a clerk--a copying-clerk, you understand--in
a lawyer's office here--Ferguson's in Fisher street--and I lodge accordingly."

"I'm very sorry," said Bertie.

"Hammond knows all about it," the other went on, "but nobody else does."

"I was afraid there was something wrong," said Bertie--"wrong for you, I mean. From our point
of view it is very lucky that circumstances have sent you here. But I hope your prospects may
brighten; not directly--I can't manage to hope that--but soon."

Percival smiled. "Meanwhile," he said with a quiet earnestness of tone, "if there is anything
I can do to help you or Miss Lisle, you will let me do it."

"Certainly," said Bertie. "We are going out now to look for a grocer. Suppose you come and
show us one."

"I'm very much at your service. What are you looking at?"

"Why--you'll pardon my mentioning it--you have got the biggest smut on your left cheek that
I've seen since I came here. They attain to a remarkable size in Brenthill, have you noticed?"
Bertie spoke with eager interest, as if he had become quite a connoisseur in smuts. "Yes, that's
it. I'll look Judith up, and tell her you are going with us."

Percival fled up stairs, more discomposed by that unlucky black than he would have thought
possible. When he had made sure that he was tolerably presentable he waited by his open door
till his fellow-lodgers appeared, and then stepped out on the landing to meet them. Miss Lisle,
dressed very simply in black, stood drawing on her glove. A smile dawned on her face when her
eyes met Percival's, and, greeting him in her low distinct tones, she held out her white right
hand, still ungloved. He took it with grave reverence, for Judith Lisle had once touched his
faint dream of a woman who should be brave with sweet heroism, tender and true. They had scarcely
exchanged a dozen words in their lives, but he had said to himself, "If I were an artist I
would paint my ideal with a face like that;" and the memory, with its underlying poetry, sprang
to life again as his glance encountered hers. Percival felt the vague poem, though Bertie was
at his elbow chattering about shops, and though he himself had hardly got over the intolerable
remembrance of that smut.

When they were in the street Miss Lisle looked eagerly about her, and asked as they turned
a corner, "Will this be our way to St. Sylvester's?"

"Yes. I suppose Bertie will make his début next Sunday? I must come and hear him."

"Of course you must," said Lisle. "Where do you generally go?"

"Well, for a walk generally. Sometimes it ends in some outlying church, sometimes not."

"Oh, but it's your duty to attend your parish church when I play there. I suppose St. Sylvester's
is your parish church?"

"Not a bit of it. St. Andrew's occupies that proud position. I've been there three times, I think."

"And what sort of a place is that?" said Miss Lisle.

"The dreariest, dustiest, emptiest place imaginable," Percival answered, turning quickly toward
her. "There's an old clergyman, without a tooth in his head, who mumbles something which the
congregation seem to take for granted is the service. Perhaps he means it for that: I don't
know. He's the curate, I think, come to help the rector, who is getting just a little past
his work. I don't remember that I ever saw the rector."

"But does any one go?"

"Well, there's the clerk," said Percival thoughtfully; "and there's a weekly dole of bread
left to fourteen poor men and fourteen poor women of the parish. They must be of good character
and above the age of sixty-five. It is given away after the afternoon service. When I have
been there, there has always been a congregation of thirty, without reckoning the clergyman."
He paused in his walk. "Didn't you want a grocer, Miss Lisle? I don't do much of my shopping,
but I believe this place is as good as any."

Judith went in, and the two young men waited outside. In something less than half a minute
Lisle showed signs of impatience. He inspected the grocer's stock of goods through the window,
and extended his examination to a toyshop beyond, where he seemed particularly interested in
a small and curly lamb which stood in a pasture of green paint and possessed an underground
squeak or baa. Finally, he returned to Thorne. "You like waiting, don't you?" he said.

"I don't mind it."

"And I do: that's just the difference. Is there a stationer's handy?"

"At the end of the street, the first turning to the left."

"I want some music-paper: I can get it before Judith has done ordering in her supplies if I
go at once."

"Go, then: you can't miss it. I'll wait here for Miss Lisle, and we'll come and meet you if
you are not back."

When Judith came out she looked round in some surprise: "What has become of Bertie, Mr. Thorne?"

"Gone to the bookseller's," said Percival: "shall we walk on and meet him?"

They went together down the gray, slushy street. The wayfarers seemed unusually coarse and
jostling that evening, Percival thought, the pavement peculiarly miry, the flaring gaslights
very cruel to the unloveliness of the scene.

"Mr. Thorne," Judith began, "I am glad of this opportunity. We haven't met many times before
to-day."

"Twice," said Percival.

She looked at him, a faint light of surprise in her eyes. "Ah! twice," she repeated. "But you
know Bertie well. You used often to come at one time, when I was away?"

"Oh yes, I saw a good deal of Bertie," he replied, remembering how he had taken a fancy to the boy.

"And he used to talk to me about you. I don't feel as if we were quite strangers, Mr. Thorne."

"Indeed, I hope not," said Percival, eluding a baker's boy and reappearing at her side.

"I've another reason for the feeling, too, besides Bertie's talk," she went on. "Once, six
or seven years ago, I saw your father. He came in one evening, about some business I think,
and I still remember the very tone in which he talked of you. I was only a school-girl then,
but I could not help understanding something of what you were to him."

"He was too good to me," said Percival, and his heart was very full. Those bygone days with
his father, which had drifted so far into the past, seemed suddenly brought near by Judith's
words, and he felt the warmth of the old tenderness once more.

"So I was very glad to find you here," she said. "For Bertie's sake, not for yours. I am so
grieved that you should have been so unfortunate!" She looked up at him with eyes which questioned
and wondered and doubted all at once.

But a small girl, staring at the shop-windows, drove a perambulator straight at Percival's
legs. With a laugh he stepped into the roadway to escape the peril, and came back: "Don't grieve
about me, Miss Lisle. It couldn't be helped, and I have no right to complain." These were his
spoken words: his unspoken thought was that it served him right for being such a fool as to
trust her father. "It's worse for you, I think, and harder," he went on; "and if you are so
brave--"

"It's for Bertie if I am," she said quickly: "it is very hard on him. We have spoilt him, I'm
afraid, and now he will feel it so terribly. For people cannot be the same to us: how should
they, Mr. Thorne? Some of our friends have been very good--no one could be kinder than Miss
Crawford--but it is a dreadful change for Bertie. And I have been afraid of what he would do
if he went where he had no companions. A sister is so helpless! So I was very thankful when
your letter came. But I am sorry for you, Mr. Thorne. He told me just now--"

"But, as that can't be helped," said Percival, "be glad for my sake too. I have been very lonely."

She looked up at him and smiled. "He insisted on going to Bellevue street the first thing this
morning," she said. "I don't think any other lodgings would have suited him."

"But they are not good enough for you."

"Oh yes, they are, and near Standon Square, too: I shall only have seven or eight minutes'
walk to my work. I should not have liked--Oh, here he is!--Bertie, this is cool of you, deserting
me in this fashion!"

"Why, of course you were all right with Thorne, and he asked me to let him help me in any way
he could. I like to take a man at his word."

"By all means take me at mine," said Percival.

"Help you?" said Judith to her brother. "Am I such a terrible burden, then?"

"No," Thorne exclaimed. "Bertie is a clever fellow: he lets me share his privileges first,
that I mayn't back out of sharing any troubles later."

"Are you going to save him trouble by making his pretty speeches for him, too?" Judith inquired
with a smile. "You are indeed a friend in need."

They had turned back, and were walking toward Bellevue street. As they went into No. 13 they
encountered Miss Bryant in the passage. She glanced loftily at Miss Lisle as she swept by,
but she turned and fixed a look of reproachful tenderness on Percival Thorne. He knew that
he was guiltless in the matter, and yet in Judith's presence he felt guilty and humiliated
beneath Lydia's ostentatiously mournful gaze. The idea that she would probably be jealous of
Miss Lisle flashed into his mind, to his utter disgust and dismay. He turned into his own room
and flung himself into a chair, only to find, a few minutes later, that he was staring blankly
at Lydia's blue vase. But for the Lisles, he might almost have been driven from Bellevue street
by its mere presence on the table. It was beginning to haunt him: it mingled in his dreams,
and he had drawn its hideous shape absently on the edge of his blotting-paper. Let him be where
he might, it lay, a light-blue burden, on his mind. It was not the vase only, but he felt that
it implied Lydia herself, curl, turquoise earrings, smile and all, and on the evening of his
meeting with Judith Lisle the thought was doubly hateful.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

LYDIA REARRANGES HER CAP.

Thus, as the days lengthened, and the winter, bitter though it was, began to give faint promise
of sunlight to come, Percival entered on his new life and felt the gladness of returning spring.
At the beginning of winter our glances are backward: we are like spendthrifts who have wasted
all in days of bygone splendor. We sit, pinched and poverty-stricken, by our little light of
fire and candle, remembering how the whole land was full of warmth and golden gladness in our
lavish prime. But our feelings change as the days grow clear and keen and long. This very year
has yet to wear its crown of blossom. Its inheritance is to come, and all is fresh and wonderful.
We would not ask the bygone summer for one day more, for we have the beauty of promise, instead
of that beauty of long triumph which is heavy and over-ripe, and with March at hand we cannot
desire September.

Percival's new life was cold and stern as the February weather, but it had its flitting gleams
of grace and beauty in brief words or passing looks exchanged with Judith Lisle. He was no
lover, to pine for more than Fate vouchsafed. It seemed to him that the knowledge that he might
see her was almost enough; and it was well it should be so, for he met her very seldom. She
went regularly to Standon Square, and came home late and tired. She had one half-holiday in
the week, but Miss Crawford had recommended her to a lady whose eldest girl was dull and backward
at her music, and she spent a great part of that afternoon in teaching Janie Barton. Bertie
was indignant: "Why should you, who have an ear and a soul for music, be tortured by such an
incapable as that? Let them find some one else to teach her."

"And some one else to take the money! Besides, Mrs. Barton is so kind--"

Bertie, who was lying on three chairs in front of the fire, sat up directly and looked resigned:
"That's it! now for it! No one is so good as Mrs. Barton, except Miss Crawford; and no one
is anything like Miss Crawford, except Mrs. Barton. Oh, I know! And old Clifton is the first
and best of men. And so you lavish your gratitude on them--Judith, why are all our benefactors
such awful guys?--while they ought to be thanking their stars they've got us!"

"Nonsense, Bertie!"

"'Tisn't nonsense. Aren't you better than I am? And old Clifton is very lucky to get such an
organist. I think he is thankful, but I wish he wouldn't show it by asking me to tea again."

"Don't complain of Mr. Clifton," said Judith. "You are very fortunate, if you only knew it."

"Am I? Then suppose you go to tea with him if you are so fond of him. I rather think I shall
have a severe cold coming on next Tuesday."

Judith said no more, being tolerably sure that when Tuesday came Bertie would go. But she was
not quite happy about him. She lived as if she idolized the spoilt boy, but the blindness which
makes idolatry joyful was denied to her. So that, though he was her first thought every day
of her life, the thought was an anxious one. She was very grateful to Miss Crawford for having
given him a chance, so young and untried as he was, but she could only hope that Bertie would
not repay her kindness by some thoughtless neglect. At present all had gone well: there could
be no question about his abilities, Miss Crawford was satisfied, and the young master got on
capitally with his pupils. Neither was Judith happy when he was with Mr. Clifton. Bertie came
home to mimic the clergyman with boyish recklessness, and she feared that the same kind of
thing went on with some of the choir behind Mr. Clifton's back. ("Behind his back?" Bertie
said one day. "Under his nose, if you like: it would be all one to Clifton.") He frightened
her with his carelessness in money-matters and his scarcely concealed contempt for the means
by which he lived. "Thank Heaven! this hasn't got to last for ever," he said once when she
remonstrated.

"Don't reckon on anything else," she pleaded. "I know what you are thinking of. Oh, Bertie,
I don't like you to count on that."

He threw back his head, and laughed: "Well, if that fails, wait and see what I can do for myself."

He looked so bright and daring as he spoke that she could hardly help sharing his confidence.
"Ah! the opera!" she said. "But, Bertie, you must work."

"The opera--Yes, of course I will work," Bertie answered. "Now you mention it, it strikes me
I may as well have a pipe and think about it a bit. No time like the present, is there?" So
Bertie had his pipe and a little quiet meditation. There was a lingering smile on his face
as if something had amused him. He always felt particularly virtuous when he smoked his pipe,
because it was so much more economical than the cigars of his prosperous days. "A penny saved
is a penny gained." Bertie felt as if he must be gradually making his fortune as he leant back
and watched the smoke curl upward.

And yet, with it all, how could Judith complain? He was the very life of the house as he ran
up and down stairs, filling the dingy passages with melodious singing. He had a bright word
for every one. The grimy little maid-servant would have died for him at a moment's notice.
Bertie was always sweet-tempered: in very truth, there was not a touch of bitterness in his
nature. And he was so fond of Judith, so proud of her, so thoroughly convinced of her goodness,
so sure that he should do great things for her some day! What could she say against him?

Percival, too, was fascinated. His room smelt of Bertie's tobacco and was littered with blotted
manuscripts. He went so regularly to hear Bertie play that Mr. Clifton noticed the olive-skinned,
foreign-looking young man, and thought of asking him to join the Guild of St. Sylvester and
take a class in the Sunday-school. Yet Percival also had doubts about the young organist's
future. He knew that letters came now and then from New York which saddened Judith and brightened
Bertie. If Mr. Lisle prospered in America and summoned his son to share his success, would
he have strength to cling to poverty and honor in England? There were times when Percival doubted
it. There were times, too, when he doubted whether the boy's musical promise would ever ripen
to worthy fruit, though he was angry with himself for his doubts. "If he triumphs, it will
be her doing," he thought. Little as he saw of Judith, they were yet becoming friends. You
may meet a man every day, and if you only talk to him about the weather and the leading articles
in the Times, you may die of old age before you reach friendship. But these two talked of more
than the weather. Once, emboldened by her remembrance of old days, he spoke of his father.
He hardly noticed at the time that Judith took keen note of something he said of the old squire's
utter separation from his son. "I was more Percival than Thorne till I was twenty," said he.

"And are you not more Percival than Thorne still?"

He liked to hear her say "Percival" even thus. "Perhaps," he said. "But it is strange how I've
learned to care about Brackenhill--or, rather, it wasn't learning, it came by instinct--and
now no place on earth seems like home to me except that old house."

Judith, fair and clear-eyed, leaned against the window and looked out into the twilight. After
a pause she spoke: "You are fortunate, Mr. Thorne. You can look back happily to your life with
your father."

The intention of her speech was evident: so was a weariness which he had sometimes suspected
in her voice. He answered her: "And you cannot?"

"No," she said. "I was wondering just now how many people had reason to hate the name of Lisle."

Percival was not unconscious of the humorous side of such a remark when addressed to himself.
But Judith looked at him almost as if she would surprise his thought.

"Don't dwell on such things," he said. "Men in your father's position speculate, and perhaps
hardly know how deeply they are involved, till nothing but a lucky chance will save them, and
it seems impossible to do anything but go on. At last the end comes, and it is very terrible.
But you can't mend it."

"No," said Judith, "I can't."

"Then don't take up a useless burden when you need all your strength. You were not to blame
in any way."

"No," she said again, "I hope not. But it is hard to be so helpless. I do not even know their
names. I can only feel as if I ought to be more gentle and more patient with every one, since
any one may be--"

"Ah, Miss Lisle," said Percival, "you will pay some of the debts unawares in something better
than coin."

She shook her head, but when she looked up at him there was a half smile on her lips. As she
moved away Percival thought of Sissy's old talk about heroic women--"Jael, and Judith, and
Charlotte Corday." He felt that this girl would have gone to her death with quiet dignity had
there been need. Godfrey Hammond had called her a plain likeness of her brother, but Percival
had seen at the first glance that her face was worth infinitely more than Bertie's, even in
his boyish promise; and an artist would have turned from the brother to the sister, justifying
Percival.

It was well for Percival that Judith's friendly smile and occasional greeting made bright moments
in his life, since he had no more of Lydia's attentions. Poor grimy little Emma waited on him
wearily, and always neglected him if the Lisles wanted her. She had apparently laid in an immense
stock of goods, for she never went shopping now, but stayed at home and let his fire go out,
and was late and slovenly with his meals. There was no great dishonesty, but his tea-caddy
was no longer guarded and provisions ceased to be mysteriously preserved. Miss Bryant seldom
met him on the stairs, and when she did she flounced past him in lofty scorn. Her slighted
love had turned to gall. She was bitter in her very desire to convince herself that she had
never thought of Mr. Thorne. She neglected to send up his letters; she would not lift a finger
to help in getting his dinner ready; and if Emma happened to be out of the way she would let
his bell ring and take no notice. Yet she would have been very true to him, in her own fashion,
if he would have had it so: she would have taken him for better, for worse--would have slaved
for him and fought for him, and never suffered any one else to find fault with him in any way
whatever. But he had not chosen that it should be so, and Lydia had reclaimed her heart and
her pocket edition of the Language of Flowers, and now watched Percival and Miss Lisle with
spiteful curiosity.

"I shall be late at Standon Square this evening: Miss Crawford wants me," said Judith one morning
to her brother.

"I'll come and meet you," was his prompt reply. "What time? Don't let that old woman work you
into an early grave."

"There's no fear of that. I'm strong, and it won't hurt me. Suppose you come at half-past nine:
you must have your tea by yourself, I'm afraid."

"That's all right," he answered cheerfully.

"'That's all right?' What do you mean by that, sir?"

"I mean that I don't at all mind when you don't come back to tea. I think I rather prefer it.
There, Miss Lisle!"

"You rude boy!" She felt herself quite justified in boxing his ears.

"Oh, I say, hold hard! Mind my violets!" he exclaimed.

"Your violets? Oh, how sweet they are!" And bending forward, Judith smelt them daintily. "Where
did you get them, Bertie?"

"Ah! where?" And Bertie stood before the glass and surveyed himself. The cheap lodging-house
mirror cast a greenish shade over his features, but the little bouquet in his buttonhole came
out very well. "Where did I get them? I didn't buy them, if you mean that. They were given to me."

"Who gave them to you?"

"And then women say it isn't fair to call them curious!" Bertie put his head on one side, dropped
his eyelids, looked out of the corners of his eyes, and smiled, fingering an imaginary curl.

"Not that nasty Miss Bryant? She didn't!"

"She did, though."

"The wretch! Then you sha'n't wear them one moment more." Bertie eluded her attack, and stood
laughing on the other side of the table. "Oh, Bertie!" suddenly growing very plaintive, "why
did you let me smell the nasty things?"

"They are very nice," said Lisle, looking down at the poor little violets. "Oh, we are great
friends, Lydia and I. I shall have buttered toast for tea to-night."

"Buttered toast? What do you mean?"

"Why, it's a curious thing, but Emma--isn't her name Emma?--always has to work like a slave
when you go out. I don't know why there should be so much more to do: you don't help her to
clean the kettles or the steps in the general way, do you? It's a mystery. Anyhow, Lydia has
to see after my tea, and then I have buttered toast or muffins and rashers of bacon. Lydia's
attentions are just a trifle greasy perhaps, now I come to think of it. But she toasts muffins
very well, does that young woman, and makes very good tea too."

"Bertie! I thought you made tea for yourself when I was away."

"Oh! did you? Not I: why should I? I had some of Mrs. Bryant's raspberry jam one night: that
wasn't bad for a change. And once I had some prawns."

"Oh, Bertie! How could you?"

"Bless you, my child!" said Bertie, "how serious you look! Where's the harm? Do you think I
shall make myself ill? By the way, I wonder if Lydia ever made buttered toast for Thorne? I
suspect she did, and that he turned up his nose at it: she always holds her head so uncommonly
high if his name is mentioned."

"Do throw those violets on the fire," said Judith.

"Indeed, I shall do nothing of the kind. I'm coming to Standon Square to give my lessons this
morning, with my violets. See if I don't."

The name of Standon Square startled Judith into looking at the time. "I must be off," she said.
"Don't be late for the lessons, and oh, Bertie, don't be foolish!"

"All right," he answered gayly. Judith ran down stairs. At the door she encountered Lydia and
eyed her with lofty disapproval. It did not seem to trouble Miss Bryant much. She knew Miss
Lisle disliked her, and took it as an inevitable fact, if not an indirect compliment to her
conquering charms. So she smiled and wished Judith good-morning. But she had a sweeter smile
for Bertie when, a little later, carefully dressed, radiant, handsome, with her violets in
his coat, he too went on his way to Standon Square.

If Judith had been in Bellevue street when he came back, she might have noticed that the little
bouquet was gone. Had it dropped out by accident? Or had Bertie merely defended his violets
for fun, and thrown them away as soon as her back was turned? Or what had happened to them?
There was no one to inquire.

Young Lisle strolled into Percival's room, and found him just come in and waiting for his dinner.
"I'm going to practise at St. Sylvester's this afternoon," said the young fellow. "What do
you say to a walk as soon as you get away?"

Percival assented, and began to move some of the books and papers which were strewn on the
table. Lisle sat on the end of the horsehair sofa and watched him. "I can't think how you can
endure that blue thing and those awful flowers continually before your eyes," he said at last.

Percival shrugged his shoulders. He could not explain to Lisle that to request that Lydia's
love-token might be removed would have seemed to him to be like going down to her level and
rejecting what he preferred to ignore. "What am I to do?" he said. "I believe they think it
very beautiful, and I fancy the flowers are home-made. People have different ideas of art,
but shall I therefore wound Miss Bryant's feelings?"

"Heaven forbid!" said Bertie. "Did Lydia Bryant make those flowers? How interesting!" He pulled
the vase toward him for a closer inspection. There was a crash, and light-blue fragments strewed
the floor, Percival, piling his books on the side-table, looked round with an exclamation.

"Hullo!" said Lisle, "I've done it! Here's a pretty piece of work! And you so fond of it, too!"
He was picking up the flowers as he spoke.--"Here, Emma," as the girl opened the door, "I've
upset Mr. Thorne's flower-vase. Tell Miss Bryant it was my doing, and I'm afraid it won't mend.
Better take up the pieces carefully, though, on the chance." This was thoughtful of Bertie,
as the bits were remarkably small. "And here are the flowers--all right, I think. Have you
got everything?" He held the door open while she went out with her load, and then he came back
rubbing his hands: "Well, are you grateful? You'll never see that again."

Percival surveyed him with a grave smile. "I'm grateful," he said. "But I'd rather you didn't
treat all the things which offend my eye in the same way."

Bertie glanced round at the furniture, cheap, mean and shabby: "You think I should have too
much smashing to do?"

"I fear it might end in my sitting cross-legged on the floor," said Thorne. "And my successor
might cavil at Mrs. Bryant's idea of furnished lodgings."

"Well, I know I've done you a good turn to-day," Bertie rejoined: "my conscience approves of
my conduct." And he went off whistling.

Percival, on his way out, met Lydia on the landing. "Miss Bryant, have you a moment to spare?"
he said as she went rustling past.

She stopped ungraciously.

"The flower-vase on my table is broken. If you can tell me what it cost I will pay for it."

"Mr. Lisle broke it, didn't he? Emma said--"

"No matter," said Thorne: "it was done in my room. It is no concern of Mr. Lisle's. Can you
tell me?"

Lydia hesitated. Should she let him pay for it? Some faint touch of refinement told her that
she should not take money for what she had meant as a love-gift. She looked up and met the
utter indifference of his eyes as he stood, purse in hand, before her. She was ashamed of the
remembrance that she had tried to attract his attention, and burned to deny it. "Well, then,
it was three-and-six," she said.

Percival put the money in her hand. She eyed it discontentedly.

"That's right, isn't it?" he asked in some surprise.

The touch of the coins recalled to her the pleasure with which she had spent her own three-and-sixpence
to brighten his room, and she half repented. "Oh, it's right enough," she said. "But I don't
know why you should pay for it. Things will get knocked over--"

"I beg your pardon: of course I ought to pay for it," he replied, drawing himself up. He spoke
the more decidedly that he knew how it was broken. "But, Miss Bryant, it will not be necessary
to replace it. I don't think anything of the kind would be very safe in the middle of my table."
And with a bow he went on his way.

Lydia stood where he had left her, fingering his half-crown and shilling with an uneasy sense
that there was something very mean about the transaction. Now that she had taken his money
she disliked him much more, but, as she had taken it, she went away and bought herself a pair
of grass-green gloves. From that time forward she always openly declared that she despised
Mr. Thorne.

That evening, when they came back from their walk, Lisle asked his companion to lend him a
couple of sovereigns. "You shall have them back to-morrow," he said airily. Percival assented
as a matter of course. He hardly thought about it at all, and if he had he would have supposed
that there was something to be paid in Miss Lisle's absence. He had still something left of
the small fortune with which he had started. It was very little, but he could manage Bertie's
two sovereigns with that and the money he had laid aside for Mrs. Bryant's weekly bill.

Percival Thorne, always exact in his accounts, supposed that a time was fixed for the repayment
of the loan. He did not understand that his debtor was one of those people who when they say
"I will pay you to-morrow," merely mean "I will not pay you to-day."

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

CONCERNING SISSY.

Percival had announced the fact of the Lisles' presence in Bellevue street to Sissy in a carefully
careless sentence. Sissy read it, and shivered sadly. Then she answered in a peculiarly bright
and cheerful letter. "I'm not fit for him," she thought as she wrote it. "I don't understand
him, and I'm always afraid. Even when he loved me best I felt as if he loved some dream-girl
and took me for her in his dream, and would be angry with me when he woke. Miss Lisle would
not be afraid. It is the least I can do for Percival, not to stand in the way of his happiness--the
least I can do, and oh, how much the hardest!" So she gave Thorne to understand that she was
getting on remarkably well.

It was not altogether false. She had fallen from a dizzy height, but she had found something
of rest and security in the valley below. And as prisoners cut off from all the larger interests
of their lives pet the plants and creatures which chance to lighten their captivity, so did
Sissy begin to take pleasure in little gayeties for which she had not cared in old days. She
could sleep now at night without apprehension, and she woke refreshed. There was a great blank
in her existence where the thunderbolt fell, but the cloud which hung so blackly overhead was
gone. The lonely life was sad, but it held nothing quite so dreadful as the fear that a day
might come when Percival and his wife would know that they stood on different levels--that
she could not see with his eyes nor understand his thoughts--when he would look at her with
sorrowful patience, and she would die slowly of his terrible kindness. The lonely life was
sad, but, after all, Sissy Langton would not be twenty-one till April.

Percival read her letter, and asked Godfrey Hammond how she really was. "Tell me the truth,"
he said: "you know all is over between us. She writes cheerfully. Is she better than she was
last year?"

Hammond replied that Sissy was certainly better. "She has begun to go out again, and Fordborough
gossip says that there is something between her and young Hardwicke. He is a good fellow, and
I fancy the old man will leave him very well off. But she might do better, and there are two
people, at any rate, who do not think anything will come of it--myself and young Hardwicke."

Percival hoped not, indeed.

A month later Hammond wrote that there was no need for Percival to excite himself about Henry
Hardwicke. Mrs. Falconer had taken Sissy and Laura to a dance at Latimer's Court, and Sissy's
conquests were innumerable. Young Walter Latimer and a Captain Fothergill were the most conspicuous
victims. "I believe Latimer rides into Fordborough every day, and the captain, being stationed
there, is on the spot. Our St. Cecilia looks more charming than ever, but what she thinks of
all this no one knows. Of course Latimer would be the better match, as far as money goes--he
is decidedly better-looking, and, I should say, better-tempered--but Fothergill has an air
about him which makes his rival look countrified, so I suppose they are tolerably even. Neither
is overweighted with brains. What do you think? Young Garnett cannot say a civil word to either
of them, and wants to give Sissy a dog. He is not heart-whole either, I take it."

Hammond was trying to probe his correspondent's heart. He flattered himself that he should
learn something from Percival, let him answer how he would. But Percival did not answer at
all. The fact was, he did not know what to say. It seemed to him that he would give anything
to hear that Sissy was happy, and yet--

Nor did Sissy understand herself very well. Her grace and sweetness attracted Latimer and Fothergill,
and a certain gentle indifference piqued them. She was not sad, lest sadness should be a reproach
to Percival. In truth, she hardly knew what she wished. One day she came into the room and
overheard the fag-end of a conversation between Mrs. Middleton and a maiden aunt of Godfrey
Hammond's who had come to spend the day. "You know," said the visitor, "I never could like
Mr. Percival Thorne as much as--"

Sissy paused on the threshold, and Miss Hammond stopped short. The color mounted to her wintry
cheek, and she contrived to find an opportunity to apologize a little later: "I beg your pardon,
my dear, for my thoughtless remark just as you came in. I know so little that my opinion was
worthless. I really beg your pardon."

"What for?" said Sissy. "For what you said about Percival Thorne? My dear Miss Hammond, people
can't be expected to remember that. Why, we agreed that it should be all over and done with
at least a hundred years ago." She spoke with hurried bravery.

The old lady looked at her and held out her hands: "My dear, is the time always so long since
you parted?"

Sissy put the proffered hands airily aside and scoffed at the idea. They had a crowd of callers
that afternoon, but the girl lingered more than once by Miss Hammond's side and paid her delicate
little attentions. This perplexed young Garnett very much when he had ascertained from one
of the company that the old woman had nothing but an annuity of three hundred a year. He hoped
that Sissy Langton wasn't a little queer, but, upon his word, it looked like it.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A WELSH WATERING-PLACE.

On the eastern shore of that stretch of land which forms the extreme south-western point of
Wales stands the stony little seaport town of Tenby. It is an old, old town, rich in historical
legends, an important place in the twelfth century and down to Queen Elizabeth's reign. Soon
after her time it fell into woeful decay, and for years of whose number there is no record
Tenby existed as a poor fishing-village and mourned its departed glories. That it would ever
again be a place of interest to anybody but people of fishy pursuits was an idea Tenby did
not entertain concerning itself; but, lo! in the present century there arose a custom among
genteel folk of going down to the sea in bathing-machines. It was discovered that Tenby was
a spot favored of Neptune (or whatever god or goddess regulates the matter of surf-bathing),
and Tenby was taken down from the shelf, as it were, dusted, mended and set on its legs again.
The fashionables smiled on it. Away off in the depths of wild Wales the knowing few set up
their select and choice summer abode, and vaunted its being so far away from home; for Tenby
was farther from London in those old coaching days than New York is in these days of steamships.
Even years after railroads found their way into Wales, Tenby remained remote and was approachable
only by coach; but now you can step into your railway-carriage in London and trundle to Tenby
without change between your late breakfast and your late dinner.

Probably no seaside watering-place known to the polite world contrasts so strongly with the
typical American watering-place as does this Welsh resort. Not at Brighton, not at Biarritz,
not at any German spa, will the tourist find so complete a contrast in every respect to Long
Branch or Newport. Tenby is almost sui generis. A watering-place without a wooden building
in it would of itself be a novelty to an American. Our summer cities consist wholly of wooden
buildings, but Tenby, from the point of its ponderous pier, where the waves break as on a rock,
to the tip of its church-spire, which the clouds kiss, is every inch of stone. Welshmen will
not build even so insignificant a structure as a pig-sty out of boards if there are stones
to be had. I have seen stone pig-sties in Glamorganshire with walls a foot thick and six hundred
years old. There is not a wooden building in Tenby. The station-buildings are "green" (as the
Welsh say of a new house), but they are solid stone.

Alighting from the railway-carriage in which you have come down from London, you are greeted
with no clamor of bawling hack-drivers and hotel-omnibus men roaring in stentorian tones the
names of their various houses. Three or four quiet serving-men in corduroy small-clothes and
natty coats touch their hats to you and look in your face inquiringly. They represent the various
hotels in Tenby, and at a gesture of assent from you one of them takes your bags, your wraps,
whatever you are burdened with, and conducts you to a somewhat antiquated vehicle which bears
you to your chosen inn through some gray stony streets, under an ivy-green archway of the ancient
town-wall; and as the vehicle draws up at the inn-door the beauty of Tenby lies spread suddenly
before you--the lovely bay, the cliffs, the sands, the ruined castle on the hill, the restless
sea beyond. A handsome young person in an elaborate toilet as regards her back hair, but not
otherwise impressive in attire, comes to the door of the hotel to meet you, and gently inquires
concerning your wishes: that you have come to stay in the house is a presumption which no properly
constituted young person in Tenby would venture upon without express warrant in words. Receiving
information on this point from you, the probability is that she imparts to you in return the
information that the house is full. Such, indeed, is the chronic condition of the hotels at
Tenby in the season; and unless you have written beforehand and secured accommodations, you
are not likely to find them. In the life of a Welsh watering-place hotels do not fill the important
place they do in American summer resorts. Nobody lives at an hotel in Tenby. If their stay
be longer than a day or two (and very few indeed are they who come to-day and are off to-morrow),
visitors inevitably go into lodgings. Such is the custom of the country, and there is no provision
for any other, no encouragement to a prolonged stay at an hotel. The result is, that the hotels
are in an incessant state of bustle and change: there is a never-intermitting stream of arrivals,
who only ask to be made comfortable for a night or two while they are looking for lodgings,
and then make way for the next squad. Tenby abounds in lodging-houses, the expenses of which
are smaller than hotel expenses, while their comforts are greater, their cares actually less
and their good tone unquestionable. The various lodging-house quarters vie with each other
in genteel cognomens and aristocratic flavor. The Esplanade is but a row of lodging-houses.
The various Terraces, each with a prenomen more graceful than the other, are the same. The
windows of Tudor Square and Victoria street, Paragon Place and Glendower Crescent, bloom with
invitations to "inquire within." A handsome parlor and bedroom may be had for two pounds a
week, and the cost of food and sundries need not exceed two pounds more for two persons moderately
fond of good living; which means, at Tenby, the fattest and whitest of fowls, the freshest
and daintiest salmon and john dories, the reddest and sweetest of lobsters and prawns. Those
who prefer to take a house have every encouragement to do so. A bijou of a furnished cottage,
all overrun with vines and flowers, may be had for three pounds a month, the use of plate and
linen included. These things are fatal to hotel ambition, for although the hotels are not expensive,
from an American point of view, they cannot compete with such figures as these. Hence there
is nothing to induce a change in the customs of Tenby, which have prevailed ever since it became
a watering-place. Britons do not change their habits without good and valid cause therefor,
and no Americans ever come to Tenby, so far as I can learn.

We are Americans ourselves, of course, and we are going to do as Americans do--viz. make a
very brief stay, and that in an hotel. We obtain accommodations at last through a happy fortune,
and presently find ourselves installed in the grandest suite of hotel-apartments at Tenby--a
large parlor, handsomely furnished, with a piano, books, objets d'art, etc., and a bedroom
off it. At Long Branch, were there such an apartment there--which there is not--twenty dollars
a day would be charged for it, without board and without compunction. Here we pay nineteen
shillings. There is a magnificent view from our front windows. The hotel stands close to the
cliff, with only a narrow street between its doorstep and the edge of the precipice. The night
is falling, and the scene is like Fairy Land. We look from our windows straight down upon the
sands, a dizzy distance below (but to which it were easy to toss a pebble), and out over the
glassy waters, where small craft float silently, with the gray old stone pier and the dark
ivy-hung ruin on Castle Hill, the one reflected in the waves, the other outlined against the
sky--a lovely picture. Tenby covers the ridge of a long and narrow promontory rising abruptly
out of the sea, its stone streets running along the dizzy limestone cliffs. From the highest
point eastward--where is presented toward the sea a front of rugged precipices which would
not shame a mountain-range--the promontory slopes gradually lower and lower till the streets
of the town run stonily down sidewise through an ancient gate and debouch upon the south beach.
Then, as if repenting its condescension, the promontory takes a fresh start, and for a brief
spurt climbs again, but quickly plunges into the sea. This spurt, however, creates the picturesque
hill on which of old stood a powerful Norman fortress, whose ruins we see. Local enterprise
has now laid out the hill as a public pleasure-ground, with gravelled paths and rustic seats,
and glorified it with a really superb statue of the late Prince Albert, who, the Welsh inscription
asserts, was Albert Dda, Priod Ein Gorhoffus Frenhines Victoria.

We find upon inquiry that our hotel so far infringes upon primitive Welsh manners as to provide
a table-d'hôte dinner at six. This is most welcome news, and we become at once part of the
company which sits down to the table d'hôte. There are ten people besides ourselves, and not
a commonplace or colorless character among them. My left-hand neighbor is a somewhat slangy
young gentleman in a suit of chequered clothes, who carves the meats, being at the head of
the table; and my happy propinquity secures me the honor of selection by the young gentleman
as the recipient of his observations: a toughish round of beef which he is called upon to carve
evokes from him an aside to the effect that it is "rather a dose." The foot of the table is
held by an old gentleman in a black stock, with a tuft of wiry hair on the front part of his
head, and none whatever on any other part, who carves a fowl, and in asking the diners which
part they severally prefer accompanies the question with a brisk sharpening of his knife on
his fork, but without making the least noise in doing it. My chequered neighbor having advertised
the toughness of the beef, everybody murmurs a purpose of indulging in fowl, at which my neighbor
observes aside to me that he is "rather jolly glad," and the butler takes the beef away. The
dish next set before him proving a matter of spoons merely, his relief at not being obliged
to carve finds vent in a whispered "Hooray!" for my exclusive amusement. One unfortunate individual
has accepted a helping of beef, however--a bald-headed man in spectacles, not hitherto unaccustomed
to good living, if one might judge by his rounded proportions. It is painful to witness his
struggles with the beef, which he maintains with the earnestness of a man who means to conquer
or perish in the endeavor. Opposite sits as fair a type of a ripe British beauty of the middle
class as I have anywhere seen--with a complexion of snow, a mouth like a red bud and eyes as
beautiful and expressive as those of a splendid large wax doll, her hair drawn tensely back
and rolled into billowy puffs, with a rose atop. It is sad, in looking on a picture like this--superb
in its suggestions of pure rich blood and abounding health--to reflect that such a rose will
develop into a red peony in ten years. I do not say the peony will not have her own strong
recommendings to the eye: we may not despise a peony, but it is impossible not to regret that
a rose should turn into one. There is a very good example of the peony sort near the foot of
the table--quite a magnificent creature in her way. Her husband, who sits next her, is a fiercely-bearded
man, but has a strange air of being in his wife's custody nevertheless. The lady is apparently
forty-five, red to a fault, full in the neck, and with a figure which necessitates a somewhat
haughty pose of the head unless one would appear gross and piggish. There is much to admire
in this lady, peony though she be. The fiercely-bearded husband is smaller than his wife, and,
in spite of her commanding air and his subdued aspect, I have not a doubt he rules her with
a rod of iron. Appearances are very deceptive in this direction. I have known so many large
ladies married to little men who (the ladies) carried themselves in public like grenadiers
or drum-majors, and in private doted on their little lords' shoe-strings! Next the fiercely-bearded
husband sits a very pretty girl, whom he finds his entertainment in constantly observing with
the air of a connoisseur. She is modesty itself; her eyes are never off her plate; and from
the at-ease manner in which he contemplates her it is clear he no more expects her to return
his gaze than he expects a torpedo to go off under his chair.

The dinner proceeds most decorously. If it were a funeral, indeed, it could hardly be less
given to anything approaching hilarity. There is now and then a little conversation, but the
gaps are frightful--yawning chasms of silence of the sort in which you are moved to wild thoughts
of running away, for fear you may suddenly commit some act of horrible impropriety, like whistling
in church. In one of these gaps--during which the whole company, having finished the course,
is waiting gloomily for the victim of tough beef (who is still struggling) to have done--my
chequered neighbor remarks, in an aside which makes every one start as if a pistol had been
fired off, "Goodish-sized pause, eh?"

But with the dessert we begin to unbend. We are still exceedingly decorous, but our tongues
are loosened a little, and we exchange amiable remarks, under whose genial influence we begin
to feel that the worst is over. Unfortunately, however, with the spread of sunshine among us
there is the muttering of a storm at our backs: the butler pushes his female assistant aside
with deep rumbling growls, and presently explodes with open rage at her stupidity. The diners
turn and stare incredulous and amazed. The butler rushes madly from the room. The female assistant,
agitated but obstinate, seizes the blanc-mange and the cream and proceeds to serve them. I
shall not be believed, I fear, but I am relating simple truth: in her agitation this incredible
female spills the cream in a copious shower-bath over me and my chequered neighbor, and excitedly
falls to mopping it off us with her napkin, like a pantomime clown. Fortunately, we are in
our travelling suits, and come out of this baptism unharmed. The incident nearly suffocates
the company, for there is not a soul among them who would not sooner suffer the pangs of dissolution
than laugh outright. As for me, I am nearly expiring with the merriment that consumes me and
my efforts to prevent indecorous explosion. The young woman, after having wiped me dry, once
more presents the cream-jug, this time with both hands, but I can only murmur faintly in my
trouble, "Thanks, no--no more cream." This appears to be quite too much for the young person,
who throws up her arms in despair and rushes after the butler. What tragic encounter there
may have been in the servants' hall I know not. Another servant comes and carries the dinner
through.

It is entertainment enough for the first morning of your stay at Tenby just to sit at the windows
and observe what is there before you--the street with its passers, the beach with its strange
rock-formations, the ocean thickly dotted with fishing-craft. The tide is out, and the huge
black block of compact limestone called God's Rock, with its almost perpendicular strata, lies
all uncovered in the morning sun--a vast curiosity-shop where children clamber about and search
for strange creatures of the sea. In the pools left here and there by the receding tide are
found not only crabs and periwinkles in great number, but polyps, sea-anemones, star-fishes,
medusæ and the like in almost endless variety. Naturalists--who are but children older grown,
with all a child's capacity for being amused by Nature--get rages of enthusiasm on them as
they search the crevices of this and other like rocks at Tenby. A floor of hard yellow sand
stretches away into the distance, visible for miles, owing to the circular sweep of the beach
and the height from which we are looking out, and it is dotted with strollers appearing like
black mice moving slowly about. The long stretch of the cliff, from its crescent shape, is
clearly seen--sometimes a sheer, bare stone precipice, sometimes a steep slope covered with
woods and hanging gardens and zigzag, descending walled paths.

Among those who make up the human panorama of the street under your window are types of character
peculiar to Wales. One such is the peddling fisher-woman who strolls by with a basketful of
bright pink prawns, which she holds out to you temptingly, looking up. The fisher-women of
Tenby wear a costume differing in some respects from that of all other Welsh peasants. Instead
of the glossy and expensive "beaver" worn in other parts, the Tenby women sport a tall hat
of straw or badly-battered felt. Another favorite with them is a soft black slouch hat like
a man's, but with a knot of ribbon in front. One of the neatest of the fisher-women is an old
girl of fifty or so, who haunts your windows incessantly, and greets you with a quick-dropped
courtesy whenever you walk out. She is never seen to stand still, except for the purpose of
talking to a customer, but trots incessantly about; and either for this reason, or from her
constant journeys to and fro between her home and the town, is given the nickname of Dame Trudge.
She usually has on her back a coarse oyster-basket called a "creel," and in her hands another
basket containing cooked prawns, lobsters or other temptation to the gourmand. Her dress, though
it is midsummer, is warm and snug, particularly about the head and neck, as a protection against
the winds of ocean; and her stout legs are encased in jet-black woollen stockings (visible
below her short check petticoat), while her feet are shod with huge brogans whose inch-thick
soles are heavily plated with iron. She lives ten miles from Tenby, walks to and fro always,
and sleeps under her own roof every night, yet you never fail to see her there in the street
when you get up in the morning. There are many other oyster-women to be seen at Tenby, but
none so trim as good Dame Trudge. Here and hereabout grow the largest, if not the sweetest,
oysters in Great Britain, and their cultivation is chiefly the work of the gentler sex. They
do not look very gentle--or at least very frail--as you come upon a group of oyster-women in
their masculine hats and boots munching their bread and cheese under a wall, but they are a
good-natured race, and most respectful to their betters. Anything less suggestive of Billingsgate
than the language of these Welsh fisher-women could hardly be, considering their trade.

The tide of passers is setting toward the south sands. Foreigners are almost unrepresented
in this throng. There is one Frenchman, who would be recognizable as far off as he could be
seen by his contrast to the prevailing British tone. It is a mystery why he should be here
instead of at Trouville, Boulogne, Dieppe or Étretat, where the habits of the gay world are
all his own. Nobody seems to know him at Tenby. Behind him walks quite as pronounced a type
of the Welsh country gentleman--a character not to be mistaken for an Englishman, in spite
of the family resemblance. A shrewd simplicity characterizes this face--an open, guileless
sharpness, so to speak, peculiarly Welsh. An indifferent judge of human nature might venture
to attempt heathen games with this old gentleman, but no astute rogue would think of such a
thing. A man of this stamp, however green and rural, is not gullible. This Welsh simplicity
of character is very deceptive to the unwary, and many besides Ancient Pistol have eaten leeks
against their will because of their ignorance concerning it.

We join the throng in the street and stroll leisurely down the long incline. The whole town
tips that way. A variety of more or less quaint vehicles move about--cabriolets drawn by donkeys
and ponies; sedan chairs; a species of easy-chair on wheels, with a wooden apron, and propelled
by a boy or a decayed footman in seedy livery with bibulous habits written on his face. Something
of a similar sort was seen at the Centennial, yet utterly unlike this, notwithstanding a resemblance
in principle. These invalid go-carts are very convenient at Tenby, as they may be trundled
everywhere, even on the sands, which are hard and flat. A peculiarity of all the vehicles,
even those drawn by two animals, is that they go slower, as a rule, than on-foot people do.
Briskly-walking couples and groups of English and Welsh ladies pass us, carrying over their
arms bathing-dresses or towels, with the business-like alacrity of movement characteristic
of most Britons on their feet. No one saunters except ourselves. All are hastening to the south
sands, looking neither to the right nor the left; but for us there are eye-lures in every direction.
The town abounds with antiquities calculated to awaken the liveliest interest in a stranger:
every street is rich with romantic story; every hill and rock for miles around has its legend,
its ruin of castle, abbey or palace, or its mysterious cromlech,--all that can most charm the
soul of the antiquary; and Shakespeare has honored this corner of Wales beyond others by putting
it in one of his tragedies. Considerable portions of the ancient town-wall are standing, with
the mural towers and gateways. In the parish church, which we pass, are some most interesting
monuments of the early half of the fourteenth century, but the Tenbyites look upon their church
as rather a modern structure, as churches go in Wales. They point out the place where John
Wesley preached in the street in 1763, when the mayor threatened to read the riot act. There
is still a law in Wales against street-preaching, but it is not often enforced, unless the
preacher happens to be drunk--an incident not altogether unknown.

The old stone pier abounds with seafaring characters in holiday rig, very picturesque to American
eyes. They knuckle their foreheads and remove their pipes as we pass, and by attitudes and
gestures which would inform a deaf-mute invite us to take a sail on the bay. They do not audibly
offer their services, for the municipal laws forbid them to, but their figureheads are mutely
eloquent. Here is one who might be put right on the stage as he stands as the typical jolly
Jack Tar of the nautical drama. He wears a red liberty-cap, and a nose which matches it to
a shade. His jersey is blue and low in the neck, and his trousers are of that roominess supposed
to be necessary for nautical purposes. Other mariners about him are quite as interesting. Occasionally
one is seen whose rig is so neat he might have stepped out of a bandbox, but, though he is
an ornamental mariner, he is not a Brummagem one. These fellows all know storm and danger and
severe toil as common acquaintances. The neatest of them are understood to be residents here,
with wives or mothers who strive hard to keep them looking nice in the fashionable season;
and in blue flannel shirt with immense broad collar, another broad collar of white turned over
that, hat of neat straw or tarpaulin with upturned rim and bright blue ribbon, they form a
feature of attractiveness which has no counterpart at American seaside resorts. The rougher
mariners, if not so handsome, are still most picturesque: they are chiefly fishermen from the
Devonshire coast, who sail over here to take the salmon, mackerel, herrings, turbots, soles,
etc. which so abound at Tenby. The spot still bears out, in spite of its modern glories as
a watering-place, its ancient renown as a fishing-point, which was so great that the old-time
Britons called it Denbych y Piscoed ("the hill by the place of fishes").

On the Castle Hill we find a great company gathered, looking down on the still greater company
which is gathered on the yellow sands. Children are climbing and rolling on the soft greensward
of the terraces, and adults are sprawling at full length, completely at their ease. Men and
women lounge to and fro on the sea-wall promenade, a miniature of the Hyde Park throng at mid-season.
Others sit reading or chatting or looking out over the sparkling sea. The grass and crags are
dotted with azure and purple flowers, and cushions of pink and white stone-crop abound. Higher
up the hill stand the ivied ruins of the Norman castle, and the white memorial monument to
Prince Albert, with its sculptured panels bearing the arms of Llewellyn the Great, the red
dragon of Cadwalader, the symbolical leek and the motto, Anorchfygol Ddraig Cymru ("The dragon
of Wales is invincible"). The air is very cool and bracing on this hill. But the greatest crowd
is on the sands and on the rocks of the cliff immediately backing the beach. It is difficult
for one who is familiar only with the beach at Long Branch or Cape May to comprehend such a
scene as this which I am trying to picture. In the first place, the field is so entirely different
from that at home; and in the second place, the bathing population of the town is not broken
up into a number of hotel communities and cottage communities, but is all gathered at one spot.
It is true some residents on the north cliff bathe on the north sands, but they come to the
south sands after they have had their dip, to meet le monde. There is room here for le monde
too; and the groups not only sprinkle the wide yellow plain, but they are perched about on
the face of the cliff in grottos and on jutting crags; they are grouped in the cool shade of
rocky caverns at the precipice's base; they are leaning on the battlemented walls that crown
its summit. The water is a considerable distance from where the people sit, and minute by minute,
as the time passes, it recedes farther and farther, until at last it is a long walk away. The
gay hues of red-coated soldiers assist feminine attire in enlivening the scene with color.
Children in great numbers are scampering about, and busying themselves, much as they do at
home, with toy pails and spades; but if you take notice you will find that their sand-structures
differ widely from those of children in America: you may even see a perfect model of a feudal
castle grow into shape, with barbacan, gate, moat, drawbridge, towers, bastions, donjon-keep
and banqueting-hall complete. A brass band--the members in full uniform of bright colors, with
little rimless red-and-gold caps--is playing under the battlemented garden-wall which backs
the sands in one place. Listen to the tunes! Heard you ever these peculiar airs before? The
"Bells of Aberdovey" jangle their sweet chime over the wind-blown scene. The "March of the
Men of Harlech" fills all the air with its stirring scarlet strain. The quaint melody of "Hob
y deri dando" moves the feet of youth to restlessness: not that it is a jig, in spite of the
jiggy look of the words to English eyes, but because it has been twisted into the service of
Terpsichore by a famous band-master in his "Welsh Lancers." "Hob y deri dando" is a love-song:

  All the day I sigh and cry, love,
        Hob y deri dando!
  All the night I say and pray, love,
        Hob y deri dando![A]

[Footnote A: This phrase is sometimes supposed to be the original of the English "Hey down,
derry, derry down!" but the old Druidic song-burden, "Come, let us hasten to the oaken grove,"
is in Welsh "Hai down ir deri dando," which is nearer the English phrase.]

A hand-organ with monkey attachment is delighting a group of children on another part of the
sands. Yonder, too, is a balladist with a guitar, bawling at the top of his lungs,

  The dream 'as parst, the spell his broken,
    'Opes 'ave faded one by one:
  Th' w'isper'd words, so sweetly spoken,
    Hall like faded flow'rs har gone.
  Still that woice hin music lingers,
    Loike er 'arp 'oose silver strings,
  Softly swep' by fairy fingers,
    Tell of hunforgotten things.

Nobody pays much attention to this wandering minstrel: he is happy if at the close of his song
a penny finds its way into the battered hat he extends for largess. He is clearly a stranger
to this part of the world, and has probably tramped down here from London by easy stages, and
will have to tramp back again as he came, without much profit from his provincial tour.

The fashionable world which is sunning itself on the sands is made up, for the most part, of
the usual types of a British watering-place--the pea-jacketed swell with blasé manner and one-eyed
quizzing-glass; the occasional London cad in clothes of painful newness and exaggeration of
style, such as no gentleman by any chance ever wears in Britain; the young sprig of nobility
with effeminate face and "fast" inclinations, who smokes a cigarette and ogles the girls, and
utters sentiments of profound ennui in a light boyish tenor voice. He is the son of an English
nobleman who has a Welsh estate, upon which he passes a portion of his time, and can trace
his lineage back to one of the Norman adventurers who came over with William the Conqueror.
For an example of an older aristocracy than this, however, observe the ancient couple sitting
near us in the shadow of a cliff-rock, the wife with a high-bridged nose and puffs of gray
hair on her temples, the husband with an easy-fitting hat and a coat-collar which rolls so
high as to give the impression he has no neck. These are aristocrats who, although untitled
and owners only of a few modest acres back in Carmarthenshire, descend from ancestors that
looked down on William the Conqueror as a plebeian upstart.

There are bathers in the surf, but they are so far away from the throngs on this vast plain
of beach that they are as unindividual as if they were puppets. One's most intimate friend
could not be recognized without the aid of a glass. The bathing-machines, which serve in lieu
of the huts common at American seaside resorts, are merely huts on wheels instead of huts in
stationary rows. They are cared for by women, who escort you to the door of an untenanted hut,
collect sixpence and retire. You enter, and disrobe at your leisure. The machine proves to
be a snug box lighted by one little unglazed window not large enough for you to put your head
through, and having a solid shutter. If you close this shutter the box is as dark as night,
for it is well built, with hardly a crevice in wall or roof or floor. A small and very bad
looking-glass hangs on the wall, and there is a bench to sit on: that is the extent of the
furniture. You have been provided with towels and with the regulation bathing-dress for men--linen
breeches, to wit. While you are contemplating this garment and questioning of your modesty
as to the propriety of donning it, there is a sound of rattling iron outside, and a tap on
your door as a warning that your machine is about to start. The machine is dragged in lumbering
fashion out into the sea by an antediluvian horse with a small boy astride, and there the boy
unhitches the traces from the machine and goes ashore, leaving you with the waves breaking
on the steps before your door. You peep out dubiously. A shoal of naked-shouldered men are
swimming and splashing in the surf. Some fifty yards away is another school of bathers, whose
back hair betrays their sex, and who are clad in garments made like those worn by feminine
bathers at Long Branch, etc. There is no commingling of the sexes in the water, as our American
custom is, but on the score of modesty I must confess to a prejudice in favor of the American
plan, nevertheless. The British theory evidently presumes that men have no modesty among themselves.
Custom regulates these matters, I suppose. I have never felt disposed to blush for my naked
feet and arms while conversing with a lady on the beach at Long Branch, being snugly clad from
head to foot in a flannel costume. But I confess to a shrinking sense of the incompleteness
of the prescribed fig-leaves as I stand in the door of the bathing-machine at Tenby. To cover
myself with the water as quickly as possible appears to be the only remedy, however, and I
take a header from the doorsill. Ugh! The water is like ice! To one accustomed to the warm
American bathing-suit the linen substitute of Tenby is a most insufficient protection. At home
I have on occasion extended the revels of the surf for a full hour, being a pretty strong swimmer
and exceedingly fond of the exercise. I get enough at Tenby in precisely two minutes, and hasten
to don my customary clothing. Nevertheless, it is contended that the surf at Tenby is pleasant
for bathers as late as Christmas, and I am told there really are Britons who bathe daily in
the sea here quite up to the first snow. It is certain that the fashionable season does not
end till November, and some stay straight on through the winter.

Among the lions of Tenby none is more interesting than St. Catharine's Island, a great rugged
hill of solid limestone almost devoid of verdure and rent into innumerable fissures, with a
succession of dark romantic coves and caverns and jagged projecting crags fringing its sides
completely round. At high tide this islet is separated from the mainland by a deep rolling
sea. At low tide its shores are left dry by the receding waters. It is a curious sight to watch
this daily advance and retreat of the sea. To see the tides of ocean come and go is no novelty,
but it becomes a novelty under circumstances like these, where every day a dry bridge of yellow
sand is stretched forth from the islet to the mainland, across which a stream of humanity pours
the moment the path is clear. At first only one person at a time can pass. Ten minutes later
the sand-bridge is a broad road. Ten later, and all Tenby might cross in a crowd. There is
an iron staircase built up the rocky face of the islet, winding about among its crags and fissures,
and the isle is overrun with people during the time the tide is out. It has many attractions.
The view is grand from those heights. Yawning gulfs fascinate you to look dizzily down into
the secret heart of the isle. On the highest point of rock stood, a few years ago, an ancient
chapel which had in Roman Catholic days been dedicated to St. Catharine. Within the past six
years this chapel has given way to a fortress, its walls partly embedded in the solid rock.
The people who throng to the islet between tides roam about, loiter with breeze-blown garments
on the stairs and landings, peer into the fortress, or, perching themselves in the sheltered
nooks which are innumerable among the crags, sit and sew, read, chat, make love and watch the
pygmy bathers in the sea far down below. As long as the tide is low the tenants of the islet
are safe to remain, but as soon as it turns those who are wise begin to gather up their things
and clear out. Now and then incautious ones get caught; and then there are screaming, hurrying
and a terrible fright, especially if the trapped ones are of the gentler sex, and still more
especially if their proportions are ample. Such women are, as a rule, the cowardliest. Probably,
they feel their amplitude a disadvantage in moments of peril, and know emotions which their
scrawnier sisters escape. A case in point greets us this morning as we stand watching the rising
of the tide. A roly-poly woman of forty or so is caught on the islet by the closing of old
Ocean's drawbridge. She is a fair being with dark hair and eyes, a sweet smile, a clear complexion,
and some two hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois, richly dressed, pleasant-mannered, and in
all respects no doubt a lady to be admired and loved, as well as respected, in the social circle.
But at present she is at a sad disadvantage. I noticed her a few minutes ago at the top of
the iron staircase, and said to myself that she would have just time enough to come down, for
there was an isthmus of sand some twenty feet wide as yet to be obliterated by the crawling
tide. A quickly-tripping foot would have accomplished it, but the fair-fat-and-forty lady occupied
one whole minute in coming down. Now that she has reached the bottom step there is a wide wash
of sea between her and the mainland, and she raises her hands in horror. How is she to get
over? There is no boat in sight. Shall she wade? There is a nervous motion of her fat white
hands in the direction of her gaiters, but she hesitates. The woman who hesitates is lost:
the water grows deeper and deeper every instant; in ten minutes it will be over her head. A
bathing-machine boy comes trotting his horse through the water, and, backing up by the rock
on which the distressed lady stands, bids her get on. Get on the back of a horrid bathing-horse!
behind the back of a horrid boy! Had she been a sylph the prospect would have been most untempting,
but a two-hundred-and-fifty-pounder! Nevertheless, the unhappy fair one begins to prepare for
the sacrifice with grief and consternation in her face. "How can I do it?" her trembling lips
whisper, and she looks about her on the rocks as if to say, "Oh, is there no other way out
of this wretched predicament?" The boy, as he sits astride, is getting his feet wet by this
time: the horse will have to swim for it presently. Still she hesitates, and throws a shrinking
glance over the vast audience gathered on the sands silently attentive--the band, the organ-grinder
and the balladist all breathlessly awaiting the issue, no doubt feeling that it would be mockery
to indulge in music at such a moment. Suddenly a bare-headed and shirt-sleeved man is seen
to dash through the water, regardless of danger and of wet trousers, who, seizing the fat lady
round the knees in spite of her screams, dumps her on the horse's back all in a heap. Saved!
saved! Such a giggling (for joy) has seldom been seen to shake a large assemblage. The emotion
caused by the spectacle of beauty in distress is no doubt a pain to every masculine mind not
hopelessly vitiated by the cynical tendencies of the age; but the pain produced by the emotion
of mirth at seeing a fellow-creature at a ridiculous disadvantage is greater when you feel
bound not to laugh.

There are four strange caves piercing St. Catharine's Island completely through from side to
side. In rough weather the storming of the sea through these extraordinary tunnels creates
a prodigious uproar. When the weather is still it is possible to take boat and sail quite through
one of them: at low tide you may walk through. Marine zoological riches abound in these caverns,
which have been for many years a real treasure-house for naturalists. The walls are studded
with innumerable barnacles, dogwinkles and other shells--not dead and empty, but full of living
creatures, requiring only the return of the tide to awaken them to an active existence. There
are simply myriads of them: a random stone thrown against a wall will smash a whole colony;
and there are besides polyps and sea-anemones and other strange animals of eccentric habits
in unusual abundance. The visitors to Tenby find great diversion in these and the other caves
on the coast: in fact, the whole coast as far as Milford Haven is one succession of natural
curiosities and antiquities. One cavern bears the name of Merlin's Cave, and is hallowed by
a legend of the enchanter, who was born at Carmarthen in the next county.

WIRT SIKES.

NOCTURNE.

  There'll come a day when the supremest splendor
    Of earth or sky or sea,
  Whate'er their miracles, sublime or tender,
    Will wake no joy in me.

  There'll come a day when all the aspiration,
    Now with such fervor fraught,
  As lifts to heights of breathless exaltation,
    Will seem a thing of naught.

  There'll come a day when riches, honor, glory,
    Music and song and art,
  Will look like puppets in a wornout story,
    Where each has played his part.

  There'll come a day when human love, the sweetest
    Gift that includes the whole
  Of God's grand giving--sovereignest, completest--
    Shall fail to fill my soul.

  There'll come a day--I will not care how passes
    The cloud across my sight,
  If only, lark-like, from earth's nested grasses,
    I spring to meet its light.

  MARGARET J. PRESTON.

THROUGH WINDING WAYS.

CHAPTER IV.

It was soon decided that I was to set out for The Headlands the first week in October. I had
studied too hard, and was growing so tall and slight that Harry Dart used to draw caricatures
of me, taking me in sections, he declared, since no ordinary piece of paper would suffice for
a full-length. I was glad of a change, yet felt some sorrow about it too. I knew nothing of
what it was to miss the warm home-life and the constant companionship which had filled every
idle hour with ever-recurring pleasures. I hated to part from my mother, who had grown of late
so inestimably dear to me; I should miss the boys; what could make up to me for Georgy? I did
not know that I was never again to enjoy the old Belfield routine, with all my untamed impulses
making the wild, free physical life full of deep and passionate delight--never again to stand
the peer of all my mates, running the familiar races, playing the familiar games. I did not
know what a changed life awaited me, and I looked forward to my opening vistas of a bright
future with longings inconceivably sweet.

I reached The Headlands one fine day in October a little past noon. Mr. Raymond's carriage
met me at the station, and a grave elderly servant, who told me his name was Mills, put me
inside and assumed all responsibilities concerning my luggage. I had plenty of time to remember
with regret our homely, pleasant life at Belfield, and recall Thorpe's words when he heard
that I had been invited to The Headlands. "It will be a glimpse of another life," he had remarked
with his usual air of consummate knowledge of the world. "Even I, who am used to living on
terms of intimacy with men of all ranks and positions, find it difficult to adjust the balance
in that quiet, stately house, where everything goes on oiled wheels."

"But what makes it hard to get along?" I had inquired with a sort of awe.

"Oh, I can't describe it," he had returned with a wave of his white hand, "but you'll soon
experience it for yourself."

But as I went on and the great sea opened before my eyes, I quite forgot my fears in the pleasure
of such wide horizons, such magnificent scenery. The ocean was here in all its grandeur, yet
there was no bleakness or bareness in these rock-bound shores, softly veiled in the haze of
the October afternoon. The voices of the breakers greeted me as something vaguely familiar:
I seemed to have been listening for them all my life. In such joys as I felt that day eyes
and ears do but little--imagination works most wonders.

I had not noticed, so raptly was I watching the fleeting tints of opal, steel and blue which
chased each other along the smooth slow waves, that we had entered enclosed grounds, and when
the carriage stopped suddenly before a wide, pillared portico I was wholly taken by surprise.
Mills opened the carriage-door, and I got down with a blank, dreamy feeling, and followed him
up the steps through the wide portal and along the hall. He ushered me into the library, and
left me while he went to announce my arrival.

I sat perfectly still in the lofty Gothic room. It was lined with books except on the west
side, where were long oriel windows of stained glass, with figures of saints glorious in blue
and gold and crimson and purple, with aureoles of wonderful splendor above their beautiful
heads. The floor was of inlaid woods polished until it shone, and over it was laid a Persian
carpet thick and soft as moss. The chimney-piece was of wonderful beauty, and extended into
the room, leaving a sort of alcove on each side, and a low fire was burning in a quaintly-designed
grate. Over the mantel hung a large picture which I did not know, but which made my heart beat
as I looked: it was a copy of the Sistine Madonna. In front of the fire was an easy-chair piled
with cushions, and beside it a low stool, while on either hand were painted screens: on one
the field of brilliant azure was strewn with flowers of dazzling hues; the other was crossed
by a flight of birds of gorgeous plumage.

I had looked at everything, had taken in every surprise of beautiful form and color: then my
eyes were lifted again to the windows, and I was gazing at the meek saints with their shining
raiment and radiant hair when I was suddenly recalled to a recollection of where I was and
why I was there. A hand pushed aside the velvet curtain which hung across the doorway--a child's
hand--and then a little girl entered, followed by a greyhound as tall as herself. I rose and
stood waiting while she advanced, the same sunshine which transfigured the saints in the windows
playing over her white dress in brilliant rainbow tints.

She was a very little girl, yet her large, serious dark eyes and her lithe way of carrying
her slim height impressed me with a sort of awe which I might not have felt for a grown woman.
When she neared me she stood perfectly still, regarding me silently with a deliberate glance.
She was very pale, with a complexion like the inner leaves of a white rose, but her eyes lent
fire to a face otherwise proud and cold. Her hair had evidently been cut short, and curled
close to her head in loose brown curls. When she had fairly taken me in she held out her hand.
"How do you do?" she asked in a clear, deliberate voice. "I am very glad to see you."

"Did you expect me?" I inquired shyly.

"Of course we did," she answered with some imperiousness, "or we should not have sent the carriage
and servants to meet you."

Then we were both silent again, and went on mentally making up our minds concerning each other.

"Yes," she said presently, putting her hand into mine again, "you look just as I thought you
did. I asked papa: he said you had brown hair and gray eyes, and that you were good-looking
when you smiled. And am I like what you expected to see?"

I did not know, I told her. In fact, although I had heard much and thought some about Helen,
she had hitherto possessed no personality for me except as Mr. Floyd's little girl. And now
she impressed me differently from any person I had ever seen before, and if I had formed any
previous conceptions, they all fled. She seemed, I will confess, a haughty, aristocratic little
creature, with her slight form and somewhat imperious look, her deliberate, commanding voice
and intense eyes: still, I liked her at once. Mr. Floyd had begged me to be kind to her, and
it seemed easy for me to cherish and protect her: she appeared to need being taken care of
with both strength and tenderness, for it was such a fragile little hand I held, and, with
all its beauty, such a wan little face I looked upon.

"I hope you will like me, Helen," said I bluntly, "for your father wants you to enjoy my visit."

She smiled for the first time. "I like you very much already," she said in the same distinct,
melancholy voice; and without more words she put up her little face to mine and kissed me softly
on my lips. I was unused to caresses, and my cheeks burned; but I followed her, at her request,
to the back lawn, where Mr. Raymond was waiting to see me.

"Grandfather is not strong," she explained, "and we save him all the steps we can. It is so
sad to be old! Have you a grandfather?"

"No," I returned: "there is nobody in our family but mother and me."

"And I have got grandpa and papa too," said she thoughtfully. "Only papa is so busy: he is
never here but a week at a time."

We had passed through the hall, crossed the rear piazza and descended the steps, and were advancing
along the grassplat toward a summer-house which faced the sea. I could now for the first time
gain an idea of the extent and grandeur of the place. The house towered above us solemnly with
its towers, pillared arches, cornices and pediments, while, beyond, the glass roofs of numberless
greenhouses lifted their domes to the warm afternoon sun. All around the lawn stood lofty trees,
their foliage glorious with crimson, russet and gold, and their shadows crept stealthily toward
us as if they were alive. And beyond house, lawns, gardens and tree-lined avenues was a pine
wood which extended its solemn verdure all round the place, enclosing it almost to the edge
of the bluff. All this on the right hand: on the left the mysterious sea, whose music filled
the fair sunshiny world we two children were traversing hand in hand.

"There is grandpa," exclaimed Helen as we neared the summer-house; and I saw an old man sitting
in an arm-chair in the sunshine, looking eagerly toward us as if in anxious expectation.

"You were gone a long time, Helen," he called out peevishly.

"Oh no, dear," she replied soothingly. "Here is Floyd, grandpa."

He had looked, when I first saw him from a distance, like a very old man, but when I was shaking
hands with him I was surprised to discover that his face had little appearance of age. Even
his thin dark hair was but sprinkled with gray at the curly ends on the temples: his eyebrows
were a black silky thread, his eyes dark and full of a peculiar glitter. His features were
finely formed and feminine in their delicacy, but the expression of his face was marred by
the restlessness of his eyes, and made almost pathetic by the dejected, melancholy lines about
his thin scarlet lips.

He shook hands with me gracefully, and made inquiries about my journey, then sank back into
his chair listlessly, and allowed Helen to pull the tiger-skin which formed his lap-robe over
his knees. There was a peculiar feebleness about his whole attitude as he sat--something almost
abased in the sinking of his chin upon his breast. It was hard for me to realize that he was
the owner of all this magnificence, and, dressed although he was with faultless elegance, and
although luxurious appurtenances filled the summer-house, waiting for his momentary convenience,
I was certain that his great wealth brought him no pleasure, and that, except for his little
grandchild, he was comfortless in the world. He was full of complaints toward her. He was sure,
he said, that now when I had come she would have no thought of him; that taking care of an
old man was a dreary and thankless task; that only the young could be beloved by the young.
And her way of listening and answering made me suspect that she was but too used to such querulousness.
I was perhaps too young to understand mainsprings of action, yet nevertheless I seemed to know
at once that her calm, mature manner and precocious imperiousness were the result of his weakness
and wavering, of his selfish and morbid doubts.

"You are older than I thought," Mr. Raymond said to me, regarding me for the first time with
languid curiosity. "I expected to see a velvet-coated little fellow of Helen's size. What is
your age, my boy?"

I told him I should be fifteen the next spring, counting, as most young people do, by the milestone
ahead of me, instead of the one I had passed.

"Oh, that is quite an age," said he with an air of relief. "Do not expect to make a playmate
of Mr. Floyd Randolph, Helen: he is quite too old to care for a mere child like yourself."

"He is not nearly as old as papa." returned Helen quickly, "and papa will play with me all
day long."

"Yes, yes," said Mr. Raymond, sinking back among his cushions and tiger-skins, "all the world
can play but me. I must be content to sit outside the joy and the sunshine. I have lived too
long. Only the young, bright people of the world are welcome even to my own little grandchild."

Helen threw her arm about his neck and stroked his cheek with her slim hand. "You know, grandpa,"
she said simply, "that I do not care for play, and I love our quiet times together; but you
forget what Dr. Sharpe says--that I must run about out of doors and be as merry as I can, or
else--"

He stopped her with a quick, shuddering gesture. "Oh no," said he, "I do not forget. Do not
make me out worse than I am to Floyd, Helen." He rang a hand-bell on the table by his side,
and began feebly to adjust the wrappings about his shoulders.--"I will go in, Frederick," he
murmured to the servant, who advanced at once as if he had been waiting close by--"I will go
in and sit by the fire.--Helen, you must show Floyd the place.--There are greenhouses, and
the stables are worth seeing too," he added to me apologetically. "I hear that Robinson has
some rare fowls, and Helen has dogs of all kinds, and a few deer. It will do her good to go
about, you know." He broke off suddenly, a spasm crossing his face, and without more words
he turned abruptly to his valet, took his arm and walked feebly toward the house.

We stood together looking after him--I a little shy and perplexed in my new position, Helen
thoughtful and melancholy.

"Poor grandpa!" she said presently with a sigh: "he has only me, you know, Floyd. He has nothing
else in the whole wide world, and it worries him to think that he cannot be with me always,
that he cannot--"

She broke off, and the small face twitched as if she were about to cry, but she controlled herself.

The splendid house, with its gleaming windows and stately pillars, the wide grounds, the air
of quiet magnificence which reigned over the whole place, had so much impressed me that I could
not resist uttering an exclamation at her words. She spoke of Mr. Raymond as having nothing
in the wide world but herself, yet he was rich enough to be master of what appeared to me the
pomp of kings; and I told her so.

She regarded me curiously. "Is grandpa rich?" she asked. "He says sometimes that the greenhouses
cost so much money that they will send him to the poorhouse. I do not think grandpa can be
rich. But if he were rich," she cried out indignantly, "that makes no difference: he has nothing
but me--nothing to care about. There was poor grandmamma: she died--oh so long ago!--and my
uncles died when they were little boys not so old as I. And mamma--she stayed the longest:
then she died. No, grandpa has nothing left but me."

"Your father too: he has only you. I wonder you do not live with your father, Helen."

She shook her head. "Oh, you don't know," she returned. "I couldn't leave grandpa. Oh, Floyd,
if you knew how it hurts me to tell papa that I must stay here! He does not understand. He
will say, 'I want my little girl: you can't guess how badly I want my little girl.'" She finished
with a great sob which shook her from head to foot. I pitied her very much, and I could easily
comprehend that she was too delicate still to be allowed to have any sort of trouble. So I
asked her to go down to the shore with me, and while we went I told her all the funny things
I could remember until I made her laugh. She was quick and sympathetic; and her spirit was
so strong, yet so repressed, that the moment she was really glad it seemed to have the exuberance
of a bird's joy at freedom after imprisonment.

I have reason, beyond that of mere admiration for its admirable picturesqueness, to remember
and note down the form of the shore at The Headlands. The house stood on the highest part of
the promontory, and there was a gradual descent to the end of the bluff, which terminated in
a line of black rocks, some of which were firmly embedded in the soil, while others lay piled
above each other as they had been tossed by some horrible convulsion of the sea. In one place
there was a perpendicular precipice of eighty feet, washed by the waves at its base; but the
beach was easily accessible from every other point, although in some places the descent needed
sure feet and agile limbs. But I had always been the best climber in Belfield, and I ran up
and down the rocks now with the ease of a monkey, until Helen begged me not to terrify her
by any new exploits. Under the frowning citadel of rocks the beach was particularly fine, well
pebbled below watermark and above a strip of shining sand. The tide was coming in with a strong
dull roar, and every wave broke on the shore with curling cataracts of foam and a voice like
thunder. It was hard for me to realize that above us on the headland the mild October sunshine
was gilding and reddening the trees, for here we were in shadow, and the cry of storm and the
din of tempest were in our ears. Yet beyond the bar opaline tints were playing along the sunlit
sea, and the luminous, shifting-hued swell of crested waves merged into the iridescent sky.
There was a secret and a mystery about the scene to me. I could not understand its influence
upon me, and felt under a spell as I gazed at the distant white sails and listened to the roar
of the waves as if I could never hear it enough.

After Helen had shown me all the strange, beautiful places of the beach, I helped her up the
precipitous bank, where steps had been carefully cut in the rock or laid upon the crumbling
sods. She took me to the stables, and I saw the horses, her pony and the blooded colt in training
for her: her dogs had followed us about, leaping and fawning upon her and smelling suspiciously
at me. Mr. Raymond disliked animals, and it was to the stables or the gardener's cottage that
the child came to pet her hounds, her sheep-dog and her snowy Pomeranian: not even Beppo, the
Italian greyhound, was domesticated at the house. Some shy deer peered out at us from their
paddock, and a doe, less timid than the rest, approached us and gave me a good look out of
her meek, beautiful eyes. Gold and silver pheasants lurked in the shrubberies, and peacocks
spread their tails and paraded before us on the greensward. Everything seemed to be Helen's,
and not a flower that bloomed or a bird that flew but she gave it an ample tenderness.

We did not talk much, but stood together hand in hand, I gazing with ardent delight and curiosity
at all these beautiful expressions of life which filled the place.

"Do you like it?" she inquired anxiously from time to time, and when I answered her gravely
that I liked it, she would smile a contented little smile. She asked me if I rode, and carefully
selected the horse she considered suitable for me, and gave the groom orders about exercising
him regularly. The man took her instructions with a respectful air: she was evidently mistress
of the place, and the centurion in the Gospel had not his servants better under his command
than had she. It was a quaint sight to see the child knitting her brows over some complaint
of Robinson's against McGill the gardener: she settled it promptly with but half a dozen words.
She had energy enough and to spare for her duties, but she had nothing of that eager bubbling
up of light thoughts and bright hopes which other children know and use in endless chatter
and playful gambollings, like puppies and kittens and other happy young things. There was always
shrewd purpose behind her few words, and she seemed always on her guard, always ready to act
promptly and with decision.

"Why don't you send those men to Mr. Raymond?" I burst out finally. "You ought not to be bothered.
What do you know about such things?"

"I know all about them," she returned gravely. "I never let anybody trouble poor grandpapa."

"My mother would not let anything trouble me if she could help it, yet I am a boy and almost
fifteen years old."

She looked at me wistfully and smiled her peculiar indefinable smile, then put her hand in
mine, and we went toward the house together. Just as night fell dinner-time came. I had gone
to my room to dress at five o'clock, but finding that all my windows looked out upon the water,
I had forgotten everything else in watching the sea, which took hue after hue as the sun sank,
growing black and turbid as it settled into a bank of gray cloud, then, when the last beams
reddened every rift, lighting up into a brief splendor of crimson and gold, absorbing all the
glory of the firmament. I felt rather homesick and dreary. I knew that in the dusky streets
of Belfield the boys were walking up and down beneath the russet elms, wondering about me while
they talked. I knew that my mother was sitting in the bay-window with the light of the sunset
in her face, and that she was longing to have me with her again. When, finally, I roused myself
to dress, and went along the dim halls and down the great staircase lined with niches where
calm-faced statues stood regarding me with a fixed and solemn air, I was quite dull and dreary,
and needed all the cheerful influences of the warmed and lighted rooms to brighten me up.

At dinner Mr. Raymond seemed more what I had expected him to be than I had found him at first
sight. He was dressed with scrupulous propriety, and wore a ceremonious and precise air which
better accorded with his position as master of the house. He talked well, and asked me many
questions about our life in Belfield, made inquiries about George Lenox, and was interested
when I told him about Georgina. And about Georgina I found myself presently talking with a
freedom which amazed myself, for my habits were reserved, and of all that I felt and thought
about Georgy I had never yet said anything except to my mother. But in this beautiful house,
which seemed so fitting a place for my lovely princess, and which was of late the object of
her dreams, I felt moved to be her ambassador and to plead her cause as well as I might. I
spoke not only of her beauty and her cleverness, but of the drawbacks to her success in life.
I anticipated criticism, and disarmed it. "Oh, Helen!" I burst out at length, "you would love
her so dearly--I am sure you would!"

Helen's eyes were shining, and her color came and went. "Oh, grandpa," said she softly, "why
may I not ask her to come here? Floyd will like it, and I--"

She could not finish, she was so glad and excited, and she ran around the table and laid her
cheek against Mr. Raymond's shoulder in mute entreaty.

"Oh, do whatever you please," rejoined the old gentleman impatiently: "you know very well that
you must have your own way in everything."

The glad little face fell at once, and she went back to her chair slowly and climbed into it.
It was a high-backed, crimson velvet chair, with a footstool for the child's feet to rest upon.
She looked very slight and young as she sat there, her baby face thrown into clear outline
and startling pallor by the ruby-colored cushions. She filled the place well, however, helping
to the soup and fish, and even the meats after Mills had carved them at the sideboard. I noticed
too, with some surprise, that the decanter of sherry stood at her elbow, and was not passed,
but that she herself poured out Mr. Raymond's glass of wine, and once replenished it. He sent
it to her to be filled for the third time, but she shook her head.

"No, no, grandpa," she said with a queer little smile: "you have had two already."

He looked angry, and affirmed that she had given him but one glass, appealing to Mills, who
corroborated the words of his young mistress. Helen said no more, but gave the decanter to
the butler, who took it away, and I heard him lock the door of the wine-closet and saw him
drop the key in his pocket. Then, presently, when coffee came on, Helen and I went into the
library, and left Mr. Raymond alone, with his easy-chair turned toward the fire. I knew that
something in the house was wrong, and experienced a vague humiliation out of sympathy for Helen,
but what my fears were I did not name to myself.

"Promise me," said she, clasping my hand suddenly--"promise me to say nothing to papa. Remember
that grandpa is very old, and that he has nothing in the world but me."

I gave the promise eagerly, more to avoid the subject than because I understood as to what
I was to be silent and why the subject should be interdicted.

"You see," said she, her clear eyes meeting mine with their peculiarly wistful, melancholy
gaze, "this is why I cannot go away. Papa thinks I do not love him: he does not know that it
would not be safe for me to leave grandpa all alone. If papa did know--"

"You ought to tell your papa everything," I said gravely.

"I wish I could," she cried in a trembling voice. "But I can't. He would not let me stay here,
and I could not go away. You must never tell papa, Floyd--never!"

I said I would not tell with the air of one who never discloses a secret; and she believed
in me, and we were soon bright and happy again, and wrote a letter to Georgy Lenox inviting
her to The Headlands on a visit.

With all his faults and weaknesses, I soon found there were good and lovable traits in Mr.
Raymond. He had been in early life a successful merchant, and the habit of controlling widespread
interests had given him a broad and sympathetic insight into men and their ideas. He possessed
a graceful and comprehensive culture, and had embodied his conceptions of the fitness of things
in the arrangement of his home, making it beautiful in all ways. He was an old man now, yet
had not lost the thirst for knowledge, and could talk, when inspiration was upon him, generously
and eloquently. He had been a part of the busy great world; he understood society and social
ways: all these talents and acquirements made him a pleasant old gentleman when at his best,
but it needed only a touch of suspicion or jealousy to put him at his worst. It was easy enough
to see that Helen did not exaggerate when she told me he had nothing to care for but herself;
and his care for her was so mixed with morbid fears that he was not first in her heart, so
embittered by a distrust of her love for her father, that she could gain small comfort from
all his overweening devotion and pride.

The child and I were constantly together in those October days. I do not think it would have
been so but for the fact that Mr. Floyd wrote daily concise and peremptory orders that Helen
was to be out of doors from morning till night, and that Dr. Sharpe, a brisk, keen-eyed old
gentleman, came every morning at breakfast-time to feel the little girl's pulse, order her
meals and command Mr. Raymond to let her have all the play she could get before the cold weather
came.

"You see," Helen would explain to me as we tramped the meadows and the uplands gorgeous with
every mellow hue of autumn's glorious time--"you see, Floyd, I was going to die in September
when papa came. Oh, I felt so tired I wanted just to go to sleep. But papa came, took me in
his arms and held me there. Whenever I woke up, there he was, his strong arms holding me tight.
He wouldn't let me go, you know, so I couldn't die. I couldn't have lived for grandpa: I knew
that he would die too, and that perhaps it would all be best."

"But now you are getting strong," I said: "your cheeks are quite rosy now."

"Oh yes," she answered. "I like to live now. I love you so dearly, Floyd, and I have such good
times."

I loved her dearly too, after a boy's fashion. It was easy for me to talk to her, and I told
her many things that lay near my heart and far from my tongue--much about my mother and my
worship of her--about our home and its surroundings--about my father and my brother Frank,
and my grief when they died. I had never expected to tell any one these memories, but I told
them all to Helen.

One day we came in a little later than usual. We had carried our luncheon down to the beach,
and had eaten it there: we had never been quite so happy together before, for everything had
conspired to make our enjoyment perfect. We had made up stories about the people on board the
ships that went up and down in the offing; strange and beautiful things had looked at us from
out the sea; a fisherman had offered us some oysters as he coasted about the bar in his boat,
and I had bought some and opened them for Helen with my knife, every blade of which I broke
in the effort. Altogether, we had had a blissful experience.

But as, upon returning, we neared the house, Mills met us on the terrace with a grave face.
"You'd better go to your grandfather, Miss Floyd," said he--"you had, indeed, or it will be
all over with him. You must not blame me, miss--it was none of my fault--but some gentlemen
came here for lunch, and he's been a-drinking and a-drinking ever since they went away, and
will not let either decanter go out of his hand."

Helen's little face had been warm with color, but it froze into pallor while I looked at her.
We entered the door, and she took off her things slowly and gave them to Mills, smoothing her
hair mechanically with her little trembling hands.

"What shall I do?" I whispered, quaking as much as she. "Let me help you somehow, Helen."

"You can't," she returned quietly: "nobody can help me."

She bade Mills go about his work: then went into the dining-room and shut the door.

The man had tears in his eyes as he turned to me as soon as we were alone. "I declare, Mr.
Randolph," said he, "it's enough to break anybody's heart to see that child a-bowed down at
her age with the care of an old man who can't be kept from drunkenness unless her eye is on
him every minute."

"Is he violent when he's--" I tried to ask the question, but could not form the horrible word
upon my tongue.

Mills did not flinch from facts. "When he's drunk?" he said. "He is ready to break my head,
but he's never anything but tender with her. She's naught but a baby, but I have seen him,
in a regular fury, just fall a-whimpering when she came in and said, 'Oh, grandpa! oh, grandpa!
I'm so sorry!' Oh, it is a burning shame! And to think that that splendid gentleman, her father,
does not know it!"

"He ought to know it," I cried.

"And if he did, sir," said Mills solemnly, "he would take Miss Floyd away, and the old gentleman
would drink himself to death, and that would kill the little girl too. It's hard to see the
right of it, Mr. Randolph. But," he added with a complete change of manner, "she would be vexed
to see me stand gossiping here."

He went up stairs with the cloak and hat, smoothing them with his big hand as if to comfort
somebody in need of comfort. I stole across the hall and stood at the dining-room door, wishing
to go in, yet fearing to vex Helen by my intrusiveness. She opened the door presently, as if
she knew I was there, and beckoned me, and I entered. The old man sat at the table in his usual
place, looking half defiant and half ashamed. She had removed both decanters and glasses to
the sideboard, and stood by him with her arm about his neck, urging him to go into the library,
kissing him now and then softly on the forehead.

"What do you think, Floyd," he said to me in a thick, unnatural voice--"what do you think of
the way my only grandchild treats me? She despises me."

"No, no, grandpa! I love you dearly."

He went on with vehemence: "A few years ago I was living among the finest ladies and gentlemen
in the world: I was admired and sought. I have been called the most accomplished of hosts,
the most perfect of gentlemen. Look about this house. Where in this entire country will you
find a more liberal patron of the arts than I? Yet this little girl treats me like a servant.
For a year she has not permitted me to have even a few friends to dine with me. Because to-day
I extended hospitality to half a dozen gentlemen who drove over from the Point, she fumes at
me: she treats me as if I had committed a deadly sin.--By and by, Miss Floyd, you can have
it all your own way here: I shall be dead."

She never flinched, nor did her face change as he glared at her, but she went on smoothing
his hair and softly putting her lips to his temples. "Dear grandpa," said she, "come into the
library now. It is getting late, and Mills wants to set the table for dinner."

"Very well," he exclaimed with a sort of petulant dignity, and, pushing back his chair, half
rose. Helen gave me a swift glance, and with our united strength we barely kept him from falling
on his face. He staggered to his feet, looking at us angrily, and not releasing our hold we
steadied him into the library and seated him in the great chair before the fire. He sank down
with some inaudible exclamation not unlike a groan, and in five minutes he had fallen asleep
with loud breathings. Helen rang the bell and told Mills to send for Dr. Sharpe, then came
back and drew two low seats opposite the sleeper, and we sat down together hand in hand. She
was as pale as death, and her great eyes dilated as she gazed steadily at her grandfather.
From time to time she felt his pulse and looked with painful scrutiny at the temples and forehead,
which grew every moment more and more crimson. The half hour before the doctor came appeared
to me endless. Inside it was almost dark but for the firelight, and outside the twilight glooms
slowly gathered: a storm was coming on, and the waves bellowed against the rocks. Mills lit
the candles and drew the curtains, but could not shut out the roar of the angry sea. I could
see that Helen was miserably anxious, but she said nothing, only sighed and set her lips tight
against each other, and seemed to listen. Presently we could hear the gravel crunched under
a horse's hoofs outside, then the sound of wheels, and in another moment Dr. Sharpe came in.

"How is this?" said he without any salutation. "Somebody to lunch, eh? ---- luncheons! Where
were you, Miss Chicken?"

"I am so sorry!" she faltered painfully. "But I was playing down on the beach, and I did not
know. You told me to play about out of doors, doctor--you know you did," she added deprecatingly.

"Of course I told you to play about out of doors. You need it bad enough, God knows! Now run
away, both of you."

"Is there any danger?" she whispered.

"Not a bit," said Dr. Sharpe, adding, under his breath, "A good thing for her if there were.--Run
away, I say," he said, hustling us both out of the door, "and send Mills and Frederick here."

We were shut away from the dim luxurious library with its blazing fire, and the old man asleep
before it, but we did not feel free to move, and stood awed and speechless outside, listening
and waiting. Helen, who had been so brave, gave way now: her face was piteously convulsed and
the tears streamed down her cheeks. I made clumsy attempts to soothe her, and finally took
her in my arms and carried her into the great lighted drawing-room and laid her on the sofa.
She uttered nothing of her impotent childish despair, but I could read well enough her humiliation
and her shame. Mills came in presently and whispered to me that dinner was ready. She heard
him and sprang up with the air of a baby princess. "I will come to dinner in five minutes,
Mills," said she imperiously: then, when she met the honest sympathy of his glance, she ran
up to him and thrust her little slim hand into his. "I trust you, Mills," she murmured, her
lips quivering again, "but you must never let papa know and never let the servants suspect."
And presently, with the outward indifference of a woman of the world, the child took her place
at table and entertained me through dinner with an account of what we should do for Georgy Lenox.

CHAPTER V.

For Georgy was coming next day, and in spite of my unhappiness on Helen's account I woke up
the following morning with my pulses all astir with joy. It would be something for me to have
her here, away from her mother, who always frowned upon me--away from Jack, whose claim upon
her time and attention made mine appear presumptuous and intrusive--away from Harry Dart, with
his teasing jokes, his wholesale contempt for any weakness or romantic feeling. I had never
declared to myself that I was in love with Georgina, nor had I formed my wishes to my own heart
in distinct thoughts. Still, young although I was, I should hardly dare to write down here
how far above every other idea and object on earth Georgina appeared to me. I never thought
of her then, I never looked upon her, without the blood thickening around my heart as if I
stood face to face with Fate: my every impulse toward the future was blended with my desire
to be something to her. I had not dared to dream then that she could be anything to me.

Before I was out of bed that morning, Frederick, Mr. Raymond's valet, came to me with the request
that I should go to his master's room before I went down stairs. It was in the wing, and the
third chamber of a handsome suite comprising study, dressing-room and bedroom. It was hung
and curtained with red; a wood-fire was burning on the hearth; the chairs were covered with
red; even the silken coverlet of the bed was red, and the only place where living, brilliant
color was not seemed to be the pale shrunken face on the pillow, a little paler and more delicate
than usual: the hands, too, clutching each other on the red blanket, had a look of languor
and waste.

"Good-morning, Floyd," Mr. Raymond said, and then dismissed Frederick.

"But you ought not to talk, sir," expostulated the valet, "until you have had your breakfast."

The sick man made a gesture for him to leave the room, watched him go out, and then fastened
his piercing black eyes on me and looked at me long and fixedly. "You saw me yesterday?" said
he at last, breaking the silence.

I nodded, finding it a difficult task to speak.

"Are you a babbling child?" said he with considerable force and earnestness, "or have you enough
of a man's knowledge to have learned to respect the infirmities of other men?"

"I tell no one's secrets, sir: they are not mine to tell."

He quite broke down, and lay there before me strangling with sobs and cries. "Should Mr. Floyd
know," he murmured, "should Mr. Floyd even guess, that I am the wretched wreck of a man that
I am, he would not let Helen stay with me another moment. He would extenuate, he would pity,
nothing: he does not know what it is for a man like me, once proud, witty, gay, to bear seclusion
and depression and decay. I long at times for some of the inspiration of my youth: it comes
with a terrible penalty."

I could believe it, for his face expressed such abasement and despair as I had never dreamed of.

"I know," he continued, his voice broken and husky, "that I shadow Helen's life. I know that
if I had died last night she would be a luckier girl to-day than she is now. But I sha'n't
last long, Floyd. Put your finger on my pulse."

I did so, and was obliged to grope for the uncertain, slow beating at his wrist. It seemed
as if so little life was there it might easily flicker and go out at any moment.

"I may die at any time," said he, putting my unspoken thought into words. "Dr. Sharpe tells
me not to count on the morrow. What cruelty it would be, then, to deprive me of my grandchild!
What could I do without her? What would become of me, living alone, with no company but the
gibbering shapes mocking at me out of the corners?" He cowered all in a heap and looked up
at me with clasped hands. "Let her stay," he went on imploringly. "It is only for a little
while, and then everything will be hers--this house and these grounds, my house in New York
and blocks of stores, all my pictures, my statues, my books. Why, I tell you, Floyd, I am worth
more than a million of dollars in invested property that brings me in a return of ten per cent.
It is all for her. I save half my income every year to buy new mortgages and stocks, that she
may be the richer. I think," he exclaimed with a sudden burst of feeling, "that such wealth
as I shall give her might atone for a great deal. Remember, Floyd, it is only a little while
that I shall burden her: let her stay."

He was pleading with me as if I were the arbiter of his fate. He had grasped my arm, and his
glittering eyes were fastened on me with the intensity of despair in their expression.

"Why, Mr. Raymond," said I gently, "I have nothing to do with Helen's going or staying. If
you fear that I shall inform Mr. Floyd about what--what happened yesterday, you do me injustice.
I shall tell him nothing. I have no right to say a word about anything that takes place in
your house."

"You are a good boy," said Mr. Raymond, with an expression of relief relaxing his convulsed
features. "I do not wonder that James loves you as his own son--that it is the wish of his
heart that you should grow up with Helen, learn to love her, and marry her at last."

I listened doubtfully: it did not occur to me that his words had any foundation in fact; yet,
all the same, the newly-suggested idea burdened me. "I think you are mistaken," said I gently.
"Nothing of that kind could ever possibly happen."

"Not for years--not until I am dead," returned Mr. Raymond peevishly. "It was nothing--nothing
at all. All that occurred I will tell you, since I was foolish enough to speak of it in the
first instance. James said he wanted Helen to be much with you. 'You know how those childish
intimacies end,' I replied to him--'in deep attachment and desire for marriage.'--'I ask nothing
better for Helen,' James exclaimed. 'She will grow up like other girls, and love, and finally
become a wife; and if she became Floyd's wife I should have no fears for her.'" Mr. Raymond's
eyes met mine. "You will never tell Mr. Floyd I spoke of this to you," he said under his breath.
"I am not quite myself this morning, or I should not have suggested a thought of it to you."

I was very sure that I should never mention it, for I found the idea of my marrying Helen so
painfully irksome that it went with me all the day, casting a shadow across our intercourse.
I told myself over and over that the idea was absurd--that such a thing could never, never
come to pass. She was so mere a child. I studied her face with its baby contours, where nothing
showed the dawn of womanhood yet except the great melancholy eyes; I took her hand in mine,
where it lay like a snowflake on my brown palm; and I laughed aloud at the grotesqueness of
the fancy that I should ever put a ring on that childish finger.

"Why do you laugh?" she asked me wonderingly.

"To think," I rejoined, "how funny it is to remember one day you will be grown up and have
rings upon your fingers."

"Is that funny?" she asked. "Of course, if I live I shall grow up and be a woman. My mamma
was married when she was only seventeen, and in seven years I shall be seventeen." I dropped
her hand as if it had stung me. "I have all mamma's rings," she went on: "I have a drawerful
of trinkets that mamma used to wear. When Georgy Lenox comes I shall give her a locket and
a chain that are so very, very pretty they will be just right for her. Tell me more about her,
Floyd."

It was easy enough for me to grow eloquent in talking of Georgina, and Helen was as anxious
to hear as I to tell. The little girl had had few friends of her own sex and age: every summer
had brought the New York and Boston Raymonds to The Headlands, and when the neighboring watering-place
was in its season numerous flounced and gloved little misses had been introduced to the shy,
quaint child, who felt strange and dreary among them all. In fact, the little heiress's position,
so unique in every respect, had isolated her from the joys of commonplace childhood, and she
found more companionship in her dumb pets, in the sumptuous silence of the blossoming gardens,
in the voices of the shore, than among girls of her own age with their chatter about their
teachers or governesses, their dancing-steps and their games. Nevertheless, she was both ardent
and affectionate, and ready to love all the world; and no sooner had Georgy appeared than she
lavished upon her all the passion of girlish fondness for her own sex which had hitherto lain
dormant within her. Georgy had always been used to adulation and to lead others by her capricious
will and her radiant smile, and within a day after her coming had established almost a dangerous
supremacy over the child. It was at once fascinating and disappointing to be under the same
roof with Georgy: every morning when I awoke it seemed a miracle of happiness that I had but
to dress and go out of my room to have a chance of meeting her, of perpetually recurring smiles
and conversation such as I had never enjoyed before at Belfield. But the reality never bore
out the promise of my vague but delicious reveries. Mr. Raymond at once took an active, almost
virulent, dislike to his young guest, and pointed out her faults to me with clear and concise
words, each one of which pierced me like a rapier; and the certainty of his condemnation gave
me a keen, and at times almost inspired, vision for her weaknesses.

Nothing could exceed her rapture at being in the beautiful house which she had so long wished
to see, and which she loudly asserted a thousand times surpassed all her expectations. And
she fitted admirably into her costly surroundings: the sheen of her golden hair made the dark
velvet cushionings and hangings a more beautiful background than before; she gave expression
to the stately, silent rooms; and what had at first been almost, despite its luxury, a desert
to me, became a fairy land. Little Helen was so burdened with possessions that it was a pleasure
for her to give them away. Still, I wished that Georgy had not been so willing to accept all
that the lavish generosity of the child prompted her to offer. But Georgy was no Spartan: she
wanted everything that could minister to her comfort. She was a natural gourmand, hungry for
sweets and fruits all day long: she coveted ornaments, and found Helen's drawer of trinkets
almost too small for her; she liked velvets and furs, silks and plushes, and wore the child's
clothes until Mr. Raymond sent his housekeeper to Boston to purchase her a complete outfit
of her own. But all these faults I could have pardoned in Georgy, and ascribed them to her
faulty education and false influences at home, had she been grateful to little Helen.

"She hates Helen for being luckier than herself," Mr. Raymond affirmed: "she would do her a
mischief if she could."

I could not believe that, yet I could see that she loved to torture the child, whose acute
sensibilities made her suffer from the slightest coldness or suspicion.

"If you really loved me, Helen," Georgy would say, "you would do this for me;" and sometimes
the task would be to slight or openly disobey Mr. Raymond, to outrage me or to make one of
the dumb, loving pets which filled the place suffer. And if at sight of the child's tears I
remonstrated, I was punished as it was easy enough for Georgy Lenox to punish me.

She would melt Helen too by drawing a picture of her own poverty and state of dreary unhappiness
beside the good fortune of the heiress, until the little girl would search through the house
to find another present for her, which she besought her beautiful goddess almost on her knees
to accept. All these traits, which showed that Georgina was far from perfect, caused me a misery
proportionate to my longing to have her all that was lovely and excellent. It is indeed unfair
to write of faults which are so easy to portray, and to say nothing of the beauty of feature
and charm of manner, which might have been enough to persuade any one who looked into her face
that she was one of God's own angels. What does beauty mean if it be not the blossoming of
inner perfection into outward loveliness? And Georgina Lenox was beautiful to every eye. Let
every one who reads my story know and feel that she had the beauty which can stir the coldest
blood--the eyes whose look of entreaty could melt the most implacable resolution--the smile
which could lure, the voice which could make every man follow.

CHAPTER VI.

Mr. Floyd had again entered upon active life in Washington, and his duties were so absorbing
that it was almost impossible for him to find any opportunity of joining me at The Headlands,
as he had promised. But just as my visit was drawing to an end he came, and kept me on for
the week of his stay. I had become used to the routine of life at Mr. Raymond's, and had again
and again wondered if Mr. Floyd's presence there would make any difference; but the change
in the entire aspect of the household after the advent of my guardian absolutely startled me.
Mr. Raymond was again master of the house, and little Helen was left free of all care and responsibility.
There seemed a tacit understanding between Mills and the child and her grandfather that Mr.
Floyd was to gain not the faintest idea of the usual state of things. Mr. Raymond wore a dignity
which was not without its pathetic side: he no longer touched wine, although a different vintage
was offered with every course, and his selfish, peevish ways seemed entirely forgotten. Helen
had grown steadily stronger every week of my stay, and now that her father was with her she
rallied at once into a happy, careless state of mind which made her almost as light-hearted
a child as one could wish. She had none of Georgy's gay boisterousness, but her blitheness
of heart seemed like a lambent fire playing over profound depths of gladness and security.

Mr. Floyd was scarcely well pleased to find Georgy at The Headlands, and at once observed with
solicitude the influence she had gained over his little girl. Georgy's idea of power was to
put her foot on the neck of her subjects and hold them at her mercy; and Mr. Floyd showed his
displeasure at her course by at once withdrawing Helen almost entirely from her society. Georgy
rebelled defiantly at this; and I too felt keenly the injustice of leaving her so utterly alone
as we did day after day when Mr. Floyd, Helen and I went riding through the woods together.
Directly after breakfast my guardian and I mounted our horses, and Helen her pony, and off
we started for the hills, where the keen autumn winds would put color into the little girl's
pale cheeks. Far below us we could see the curving reaches of beach and promontory, the sparkling
fall of the low surf, and in the offing the white-winged ships bringing all the wonders of
the East and the richness of the tropics to our barren New England shores. What wonder if I
have never forgotten a single incident of those too swiftly succeeding days? The glow, the
enthusiasm, the wild gush of free, untrammelled enjoyment, were to go from me presently, and
to return no more.

When Mr. Floyd first came he had shaken me roughly by the shoulder, laughing in my face as
he told me he had just come from Belfield, where he had spent six hours with my mother. I felt
ashamed to look him in the eyes when I remembered my interference, and I began to debate the
question in my own mind whether I had not better yield my boyish whim of pride and exclusive,
domineering affection to this noble, splendid gentleman, whom I loved better and better every day.

The week appointed for his visit at The Headlands had almost passed. It was a Thursday morning,
and we were to set out early the ensuing day, when he asked me to walk with him an hour on
the bluff, as he had something to speak to me about. It was a lovely day: the fogs were rolling
off the water, and disclosed a sea of chrysoprase beneath.

"In my old courting-days," began Mr. Floyd at once, "I used to walk here with Alice. We were
engaged six weeks, and looking back now eleven years the days seem all like this. It was the
Indian summer-time."

I was dumb, but stared into his face, which showed emotion, and pressed his arm bashfully.

"I was thirty-four when I first met her," he went on, "and she was just half my age. She was
an heiress and I was poor, yet the world called me no bad match for her. Still, I felt as if
I could not marry a rich woman: I went away, and tried to forget her, but stole back to the
Point, hoping to get one glimpse of her sweet face by stealth. Then when I saw her I could
not go away again, nor did she want me to go. Mr. Raymond hated me in those days, yet we were
so strong against him that he gave his consent, and we were married on just such a November
day as this. It seems like a dream, Floyd, that I, so long a lonely man, without a private
joy, could ever have been so happy as I was then. I loved her--the light of her eyes and the
white lids that covered them when I looked at her; the smile on her parted lips; the way her
hair curled away from her temples; the little dimples all over her hands; her voice, her little
ways. And while I loved her like that, before the first year of my happiness had passed she
was dead. I hope you will never know what that means. That she had left me a child was nothing
to me: I was only a rapturous lover, and had not begun to long for baby voices and upturned
children's faces. When, finally, I did turn to Helen, it was as you see now: to part her from
her grandfather would be to wrench body from soul."

"Mr. Raymond is a very old man," I suggested.

"He has a surer life than mine: I doubt if anybody would insure mine at any price."

We were silent. I felt awkward and ashamed: I knew what was in his thoughts.

"You wise young people!" said he presently, throwing his arm over my shoulder--"oh, you wise
young people!" Then turning me square about, he looked into my face: "Oh, you foolish, foolish
young people!"

I felt foolish indeed--so foolish I could not meet his eyes.

"Why begrudge us a few years of happiness together?" he asked in his deliberate gentle voice.
"Your mother is still young, and so beautiful that she deserves to shine in a sphere worthy
of her. I will say nothing of my profound and respectful love for her. My love for Alice was
my passionate worship of a singularly charming child: your mother commands a different feeling.
But of that I will say nothing. Think, Floyd, what a life I can offer her! It seems to me that
in marrying me she will gain much: what can she lose?"

What, indeed, could she lose? My doubt and dread shrank into insignificant and petty proportions:
it seemed to me the noblest fate for any woman alive to gain the love of this man into whose
face I was looking earnestly. Yet I could find no words to utter, and he went on as if trying
to convince me against my will.

"You do not appear to entertain any aversion for me," he pursued, smiling, "and in our new
relation I will take care that you do not like me less. You are dear to me now, yet when your
mother is my wife you will be much dearer."

My self-control vanished: my lip trembled. "What does mother say?" I asked almost in a whisper.

He put his hands on my shoulders, laughing softly: "She says she has a son whose love and respect
she so highly prizes she will do nothing to forfeit them."

"Does she love you, Mr. Floyd?" I questioned bluntly.

"I think she does--a little," he answered, dropping his eyes. "But," he went on more hurriedly,
"in such a marriage love is not everything, Floyd, although it is much. There is sympathy,
constant close companionship: of these both your mother and I have bitterly felt the need."

"Don't say any more, sir," I cried, humbled to the dust. "When I first saw what was coming
I suppose I thought only of myself: now--"

"Now you think of two other people, and withdraw your opposition. I confess I can't see how
you will be worse off. Come now, give me your hand, you young rascal! I shall go home with
you to-morrow, and--"

"Will it take place at once?" I asked with a pang at my heart.

"What? our marriage? You are hurrying matters charmingly. Mrs. Randolph has not yet accepted
me. But I will confess to you, my boy, that I shall be more than happy, more than proud, if
I can persuade her to allow me to introduce her to my friends in Washington in December."

We walked about for more than an hour after, but said no more about the matter, although it
was stirring below every thought and word of each of us. I felt the weariness of soul which
succeeds a struggle, and my guardian tried, but unsuccessfully, to conceal the elation which
follows victory. Yet subdued and unhappy though I was, haunted by a sense of terrible loss,
I was proud and glad to have contented him. He talked to me intimately, and discussed my plans
for the future. I was to enter college the next year, and he pointed out the fact, to which
I was not insensible, that our old life at home would necessarily have been broken up when
I left Belfield. He spoke of my pecuniary means, and frankly informed me that his property
amounted to three hundred thousand dollars, and that this amount he had divided into thirds--one
for my mother, one for Helen and one for me.

"Oh, sir," I burst out, "you must not be so generous to me."

"And why not? My little girl has too much already: it has always been one of the discomforts
of my life that she is so rich, so raised above all human wants, that I have had it in my power
to do nothing for her. I have seen poor men buying clothes and shoes for their little sunburned
children, and envied them."

We had been lounging toward the house, and now had reached the terrace, where we found Mr.
Raymond pacing feebly up and down in the mild sunshine leaning on Frederick's arm. Mr. Floyd
stepped forward and took the valet's place, investing the slight courtesy with the charm of
his grand manner.

"Where is Helen?" asked Mr. Raymond. "I supposed that she was with you, James."

"I have not seen her since breakfast.--Suppose you look her up, Floyd? I am afraid she is with
Miss Georgy, and in mischief, no doubt.--I object, sir," Mr. Floyd added to his father-in-law,
"to Helen's having too much of the society of Miss Lenox. She is a pretty little devil enough,
but then I don't like pretty little devils."

"I have written to Mrs. Lenox to recall her," returned Mr. Raymond stiffly. "She is no favorite
of mine. There is a look in her eyes at times that makes me shudder at the thought of the harm
she is pretty sure to do. Floyd here is her only partisan."

I had already sprung along the terrace, and quickly crossed the lawn and garden to the rocks.
I remembered having seen a blue and a scarlet jacket going toward the shore during my talk
with Mr. Floyd; and, sure enough, on the rocks I found traces of the girls--a ribbon, the rind
of Georgy's oranges which she was always nibbling, and Helen's book. Supposing they were on
the beach, I descended the stone steps leading to the sands. There was a faint plashing and
lisping of the waves, but otherwise no sound and no sight but the great rocks and the smooth
sea lustrous and glittering like steel. I had no doubt but that Helen and Georgy were somewhere
near me, and sat down to wait. My mind was full of thoughts that came and went, bringing clear
but swiftly-shifting pictures of our old life and the new, which rose suddenly fresh and vivid
before me. I could see my mother's face, the color coming and going like a young girl's, and
the movement of her little hands clasping and unclasping in her lap. I could see her, too,
by the side of Mr. Floyd in a bright, wonderful world of which I knew nothing. For a moment
I felt already parted from her, and the pang of separation wrenched body from soul. I threw
myself face downward on the sand and declared myself profoundly miserable.

Suddenly I started to my feet. I was vaguely terrified, yet could not tell what had aroused
me from my brooding thoughts. I seemed conscious of having heard a cry, but so faint and inarticulate
as hardly to differ from the distant note of a sea-bird. But as I ran frantically along the
sands I distinctly heard my name, and knew that the entreaty was for help.

"I am coming!" I screamed at the top of my voice--"I am coming as fast as I can." The rocks
gave back so many deceitful echoes that I was not certain from what point the imploring cry
came; but I knew every inch of the beach for a mile up and down, and knew, too, that there
was but one place in which with ordinary prudence there could be the slightest danger. So with
unerring instinct I flew along the wet shingle to "Raymond's Cliff." At this point the beetling
line of rocks which coiled and frowned along the coast terminated abruptly in precipitous crags.
On one side it was sheer precipice, but on the other the cliff, exposed both to wind and wave,
washed by the rains and gnawed at its base by ever-advancing and receding tides, had gradually
been worn away in the centre by the constant crumbling of the sandy soil, so as to form a sort
of ravine. It was a dangerous and gloomy place, and I had received many a warning from Mr.
Raymond never to take Helen there.

"Helen!" I cried--"Helen! if you are here, answer me. I cannot see you." A gull flew away from
the cliff with a scream, and I could hear no other sound. "Tell me, Helen, if you are here."

I heard a cry from above--almost inaudible it was so spiritless and faint--yet, gaze as I might
toward the top, I could see nothing. I skirted the main rock and climbed as far as I easily
could up the ravine. Here my attention was arrested by a dot of scarlet against the grim, bare
face of the basalt. Yes, there she was, about forty feet above me, hanging on to a shelving
rock with her little Italian greyhound in her arms. She was peering down, disclosing a pallid
face. I saw at once that she had hung there until her strength was almost gone.

"Listen to me, Helen," said I, calmly and very gently, for I had a ghastly dread that she would
fall before my very eyes. "Don't look down: just keep your eyes fixed on the rock, and hold
on tight until I reach you." She obeyed me. "Now," I went on authoritatively, "drop the dog--drop
him, I say!--Here, Beppo! here!"

She again obeyed me, and the dog scrambled down and fell--scratched and bruised, no doubt,
yet otherwise unhurt--at my feet. "Helen, answer me one question," said I. "Can you wait until
I go round up to the top and get a rope?"

She gave a little scream of pitiful anguish: I saw her slight figure sway, and some loose stones
came rattling down. "I feel so sick, so dizzy!" she cried.

"I will climb up, then. Hold on tight for a few minutes more. Keep perfectly still, and don't
look down: you know how well I can climb."

I was a capital climber, and could hold on like a cat where there was a crevice to fasten my
feet or my hands. Still, I was anything but certain about these hollow, worn sides, which in
places were as smooth as glass. But it had to be done, and done quickly. If the child fell
she was dead or maimed to a certainty. She had crawled in some unheard-of way down from the
top, and must go back the way she had come; and since I had no time to help her from above,
I must go up to her. A spar had been washed up among the débris upon which I had mounted, and
this helped me up a little way. Then I managed to creep a trifle farther, hand over hand: whenever
I could take breath I called out to her that it was all right and I should be up in another
minute. The necessity of keeping up her courage endowed me with miraculous strength, and in
a little while I stood beside Helen on the narrow shelf, and waited for a moment to breathe
freely and see what was yet beyond me. I smiled at her, and she looked steadily into my face,
but said not a word.

"How in the world did you get here, Helen?" I asked.

"I came after Beppo," she returned, her lip trembling.

"How did Beppo get here?"

"Georgy flung him down," cried the child, bursting into tears. "Perhaps she did not mean to,
but she was angry that he would not go by himself after the stone she flung."

I had looked to the top by this time, and saw at once that the worst part of the ascent was
before me. It had been sheer rock beneath: here the strata were crumbled, and the interstices
filled with earth and dried vegetation. The angle was much greater than it had been below,
and it was easy to see that even Helen's light footstep had loosened every fragment it had
touched. I gained a foothold above her; stretched out my hand and drew her up; then another
and another. Once she lost her footing, but I caught the slim figure in my arms and went on,
with her half fainting against my shoulder, her puny strength quite worn out.

When we were within a few feet of the top I told her to look up. "You see that we are almost
there," I said gently. "Can you do what I tell you to do? When I raise you place one foot on
my shoulder: ... now, then, take hold of something firmly and clamber up."

My footing was precarious, and in order to lift her up I was obliged to unfasten my hold of
the few scant wisps of withered grass. If she could but reach the top, I believed I could make
a supreme effort to save myself; and I risked everything.

In an instant she was on the brow of the cliff. She gave a convulsive cry of joy and relief,
and reached out her little hand to me. I almost stretched out to grasp it; then, remembering
that with her slight weight I might easily drag her back into danger, I took hold of a little
bush: it was dried to the roots, and came out in my hand. My footing gave way: I slipped down,
with nothing to break my fall--not a shrub, not a fissure in the rocks. The blue sky had been
above me, but that blessed glimpse of azure vanished, and I could see nothing but the frowning
sides of the precipice as I went down, my pace accelerating every moment. I believed I could
gain a hold or footing on the shelving rock where I had found Helen, but it gave way as I touched
it and slid suddenly down the ravine. I was dizzy and bruised, but was wondering if Helen would
give the alarm--if Georgy would be sorry. I thought with pity of my mother, who would surely
weep for me. Then I heard Beppo barking joyfully, and I knew that I was at the bottom of the
abyss. I suffered a few seconds of such terrible pain that I was glad when a sickening sort
of quietude settled over me, and I felt that I must be dying.

ELLEN W. OLNEY.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A SEA-SOUND.

  Hush! hush!
    'Tis the voice of the sea to the land,
    As it breaks on the desolate strand,
  With a chime to the strenuous wave of life
    That throbs in the quivering sand.

  Hush! hush!
    Each requiem tone as it dies,
    With a soul that is parting, sighs;
  For the tide rolls back from the pulseless clay
    As the foam in the tempest flies.

  Hush! hush!
    O throb of the restless sea!
    All hearts are attuned to thee--
  All pulses beat with thine ebb and flow
    To the rhyme of Eternity!

JOHN B. TABB.

THE BRITISH SOLDIER.

I allude to the British soldier, more especially, as I lately observed and admired him at Aldershot,
where, just now, he appears to particular advantage; but at any time during the past twelvemonth--since
England and Russia have stood glaring at each other across the prostrate body of the expiring
yet reviving Turk--this actually ornamental and potentially useful personage has been picturesquely,
agreeably conspicuous. I say "agreeably," speaking from my own humble point of view, because
I confess to a lively admiration of the military class. I exclaim, cordially, with Offenbach's
Grand Duchess, "Ah, oui, j'aime les militaires!" Mr. Ruskin has said somewhere, very naturally,
that he could never resign himself to living in a country in which, as in the United States,
there should be no old castles. Putting aside the old castles, I should say, like Mr. Ruskin,
that life loses a certain indispensable charm in a country destitute of an apparent standing
army. Certainly, the army may be too apparent, too importunate, too terrible a burden to the
state and to the conscience of the philosophic observer. This is the case, without a doubt,
just now in the bristling empires of the Continent. In Germany and France, in Russia and Italy,
there are many more soldiers than are needed to make the taxpayer thrifty or the lover of the
picturesque happy. The huge armaments of continental Europe are an oppressive and sinister
spectacle, and I have rarely derived a high order of entertainment from the sight of even the
largest masses of homesick conscripts. The chair à canon--the cannon-meat--as they aptly term
it in French, has always seemed to me dumbly, appealingly conscious of its destiny. I have
seen it in course of preparation--seen it salted and dressed and packed and labelled, as it
were, for consumption. In that marvellous France, indeed, which bears all burdens lightly,
and whose good spirits and absence of the tragic pose alone prevent us from calling her constantly
heroic, the army scarcely seems to be the heavy charge that it must be in fact. The little
red-legged soldiers, always present and always moving, are as thick as the field-flowers in
an abundant harvest, and amid the general brightness and mobility of French life they strike
one at times simply as cheerful tokens of the national exuberance and fecundity. But in Germany
and Italy the national levies impart a lopsided aspect to society: they seem to drag it under
water. They hang like a millstone round its neck, so that it can't move: it has to sit still,
looking wistfully at the long, forward road which it is unable to measure.

England, which is fortunate in so many things, is fortunate in her well-fed mercenaries, who
suggest none of the dismal reflections provoked by the great foreign armies. It is true, of
course, that they fail to suggest some of the inspiring ones. If Germany and France are burdened,
at least they are defended--at least they are armed for conflict and victory. There seems to
be a good deal of doubt as to how far this is true of the nation which has hitherto been known
as the pre-eminently pugnacious one. Where France and Germany and Russia count by hundreds,
England counts by tens; and it is only, strictly speaking, on the good old principle that one
Englishman can buffet a dozen foreigners that a very hopeful view of an Anglo-continental collision
can be maintained. This good old principle is far from having gone out of fashion: you may
hear it proclaimed to an inspiring tune any night in the week in the London music-halls. One
summer evening, in the country, an English gentleman was telling me about his little boy, a
rosy, sturdy, manly child whom I had already admired, and whom he depicted as an infant Hercules.
The surrounding influences at the moment were picturesque. An ancient lamp was suspended from
the ceiling of the hall; the large door stood open upon a terrace; and outside the big, dense
treetops were faintly stirring in the starlight. My companion dilated upon the pluck and muscle,
the latent pugnacity, of his dear little son, and told me how bravely already he doubled his
infant fist. There was a kind of Homeric simplicity about it. From this he proceeded to wider
considerations, and observed that the English child was of necessity the bravest and sturdiest
in the world, for the plain reason that he was the germ of the English man. What the English
man was we of course both knew, but, as I was a stranger, my friend explained the matter in
detail. He was a person whom, in the ordinary course of human irritation, every one else was
afraid of. Nowhere but in England were such men made--men who could hit out as soon as think,
and knock over persons of inferior race as you would brush away flies. They were afraid of
nothing: the sentiment of hesitation to inflict a blow under rigidly proper circumstances was
unknown to them. English soldiers and sailors in a row carried everything before them: foreigners
didn't know what to make of such fellows, and were afraid to touch them. A couple of Englishmen
were a match for a foreign mob. My friend's little boy was made like a statue: his little arms
and legs were quite of the right sort. This was the greatness of England, and of this there
was an infinite supply. The light, as I say, was dim in the great hall, and the rustle of the
oaks in the park was almost audible. Their murmur seemed to offer a sympathetic undertone to
the honest conversation of my companion, and I sat there as humble a ministrant to the simple
and beautiful idea of British valor as the occasion could require. I made the reflection--by
which I must justify my anecdote--that the ancient tradition as to the personal fighting-value
of the individual Englishman flourishes in high as well as in low life, and forms a common
ground of contact between them; with the simple difference that at the music-halls it is more
poetically expressed than in the country-houses.

I am grossly ignorant of military matters, and hardly know the names of regiments or the designations
of their officers; yet, as I said at the beginning of these remarks, I am always very much
struck by the sight of a uniform. War is a detestable thing, and I would willingly see the
sword dropped into its scabbard for ever. Only I should plead that in its sheathed condition
the sword should still be allowed to play a certain part. Actual war is detestable, but there
is something agreeable in possible war; and I have been thankful that I should have found myself
on British soil at a moment when it was resounding to the tread of regiments. If the British
army is small, it has during the last six months been making the most of itself. The rather
dusky spectacle of British life has been lighted up by the presence in the foreground of considerable
masses of that vivid color which is more particularly associated with the protection of British
interests. The sunshine has appeared to rest upon scattered clusters of red-coats, while the
background has been enveloped in a sort of chaotic and fuliginous dimness. The red-coats, according
to their number, have been palpable and definite, though a great many other things have been
inconveniently vague. At the beginning of the year, when Parliament was opened in the queen's
name, the royal speech contained a phrase which that boisterous organ of the war-party, the
Pall Mall Gazette, pronounced "sickening" in its pusillanimity. Her Majesty alluded to the
necessity, in view of the complications in the East, of the government taking into consideration
the making of "preparations for precaution." This was certainly an ineffective way of expressing
a thirst for Russian blood, but the royal phraseology is never very felicitous; and the "preparations
for precaution" have been extremely interesting. Indeed, for a person conscious of a desire
to look into what may be called the psychology of politics, I can imagine nothing more interesting
than the general spectacle of the public conduct of England during the last two years. I have
watched it with a good deal of the same sort of entertainment with which one watches a five-act
drama from a comfortable place in the stalls. There are moments of discomfort in the course
of such a performance: the theatre is hot and crowded, the situations are too prolonged, the
play seems to drag, some of the actors have no great talent. But the piece, as a whole, is
intensely dramatic, the argument is striking, and you would not for the world leave your place
before the dénouement is reached. My own pleasure all winter, I confess, has been partly marred
by a bad conscience: I have felt a kind of shame at my inability to profit by a brilliant opportunity
to make up my mind. This inability, however, was extreme, and my regret was not lightened by
seeing every one about me set an admirable example of decision, and even of precision. Every
one about me was either a Russian or a Turk, the Turks, however, being greatly the more numerous.
It appeared necessary to one's self-respect to assume some foreign personality, and I felt
keenly, for a while, the embarrassment of choice. At last it occurred to me simply that as
an American I might be an Englishman; and the reflection became afterward very profitable.

When once I had undertaken the part, I played it with what the French call conviction. There
are many obvious reasons why the rôle, at such a time as this, should accommodate itself to
the American capacity. The feeling of race is strong, and a good American could not but desire
that, with the eyes of Europe fixed upon it, the English race should make a passable figure.
There would be much fatuity in his saying that at such a moment he deemed it of importance
to give it the support of his own striking attitude, but there is at least a kind of filial
piety in this feeling moved to draw closer to it. To see how the English race would behave,
and to hope devoutly it would behave well,--this was the occupation of my thoughts. Old England
was in a difficult pass, and all the world was watching her. The good American feels in all
sorts of ways about Old England: the better American he is, the more acute are his moods, the
more lively his variations. He can be, I think, everything but indifferent; and, for myself,
I never hesitated to let my emotions play all along the scale. In the morning, over the Times,
it was extremely difficult to make up one's mind. The Times seemed very mealy-mouthed--that
impression, indeed, it took no great cleverness to gather--but the dilemma lay between one's
sense of the brutality and cynicism of the usual utterances of the Turkish party and one's
perception of the direful ills which Russian conquest was so liberally scattering abroad. The
brutality of the Turkish tone, as I sometimes caught an echo of it in the talk of chance interlocutors,
was not such as to quicken that race-feeling to which I just now alluded. English society is
a tremendously comfortable affair, and the crudity of the sarcasm that I frequently heard levelled
by its fortunate members at the victims of the fashionable Turk was such as to produce a good
deal of resentful meditation. It was provoking to hear a rosy English gentleman, who had just
been into Leicestershire for a week's hunting, deliver the opinion that the vulgar Bulgarians
had really not been massacred half enough; and this in spite of the fact that one had long
since made the observation that for a good plain absence of mawkish sentimentality a certain
type of rosy English gentleman is nowhere to be matched. On the other hand, it was not very
comfortable to think of the measureless misery in which these interesting populations were
actually steeped, and one had to admit that the deliberate invasion of a country which professed
the strongest desire to live in peace with its invaders was at least a rather striking anomaly.
Such a course could only be justified by the most gratifying results, and brilliant consequences
as yet had not begun to bloom upon the blood-drenched fields of Bulgaria.

To see this heavy-burdened, slow-moving Old England making up her mind was an edifying spectacle.
It was not over-fanciful to say to one's self, in spite of the difficulties of the problem
and the (in a certain sense) evenly-balanced scales, that this was a great crisis in her history,
that she stood at the crossing of the ways, and that according as she put forth her right hand
or her left would her greatness stand or wane. It was possible to imagine that in her huge,
dim, collective consciousness she felt an oppressive sense of moral responsibility, that she
too murmured to herself that she was on trial, and that, through the mists of bewilderment
and the tumult of party cries, she begged to be enlightened. The sympathetic American to whom
I have alluded may be represented at such an hour as making a hundred irresponsible reflections
and indulging in all sorts of fantastic visions. If I had not already wandered so far from
my theme, I should like to offer a few instances here. Very often it seemed natural to care
very little whether England went to war with Russia or not: the interest lay in the moral struggle
that was going on within her own limits. Awkward as this moral struggle made her appear, perilously
as it seemed to have exposed her to the sarcasm of some of her neighbors--of that compact,
cohesive France, for instance, which even yet cannot easily imagine a great country sacrificing
the substance of "glory" to the shadow of wisdom--this was the most striking element in the
drama into which, as I said just now, the situation had resolved itself. The Liberal party
at the present hour is broken, disfigured, demoralized, the mere ghost of its former self.
The opposition to the government has been, in many ways, factious and hypercritical: it has
been opposition for opposition's sake, and it has met, in part, the fate of such immoralities.
But a good part of the cause that it represented appeared at times to be the highest conscience
of a civilized country. The aversion to war, the absence of defiance, the disposition to treat
the emperor of Russia like a gentleman and a man of his word, the readiness to make concessions,
to be conciliatory, even credulous, to try a great many expedients before resorting to the
showy argument of the sword,--these various attributes of the peace party offered, of course,
ample opportunity to those scoffers at home and abroad who are always prepared to cry out that
England has sold herself, body and soul, to "Manchester." It was interesting to attempt to
feel what there might be of justice in such cries, and at the same time feel that this looking
at war in the face and pronouncing it very vile was the mark of a high civilization. It is
but fair to add, though it takes some courage, that I found myself very frequently of the opinion
of the last speaker. If British interests were in fact endangered by Russian aggression--though,
on the whole, I did not at all believe it--it would be a fine thing to see the ancient might
of this great country reaffirm itself. I did not at all believe it, as I say; yet at times,
I confess, I tried to believe it, pretended I believed it, for the sake of this inspiring idea
of England's making, like the lady in Dombey & Son, "an effort." There were those who, if one
would listen to them, would persuade one that that sort of thing was quite out of the question;
that England was no longer a fighting power; that her day was over; and that she was quite
incapable of striking a blow for the great empire she had built up--with a good deal less fighting,
really, than had been given out--by taking happy advantage of weaker states. (These hollow
reasoners were of course invidious foreigners.) To such talk as this I paid little attention--only
just enough to feel it quicken my desire that this fine nation, so full of private pugnacity
and of public deliberation, might find in circumstances a sudden pretext for doing something
gallant and striking.

Meanwhile I watched the soldiers whenever an opportunity offered. My opportunities, I confess,
were moderate, for it was not often my fortune to encounter an imposing military array. In
London there are a great many red-coats, but they rarely march about the streets in large masses.
The most impressive military body that engages the attention of the contemplative pedestrian
is the troop of Life Guards or of Blues which every morning, about eleven o'clock, makes its
way down to Whitehall from the Regent's Park barracks. (Shortly afterward another troop passes
up from Whitehall, where, at the Horse Guards, the guard has been changed.) The Life Guards
are one of the most brilliant ornaments of the metropolis, and I never see two or three of
them pass without feeling shorter by several inches. When, of a summer afternoon, they scatter
themselves abroad in undress uniform--with their tight red jackets and tight blue trousers
following the swelling lines of their manly shapes, and their little visorless caps perched
neatly askew on the summit of their six feet two of stature--it is impossible not to be impressed,
and almost abashed, by the sight of such a consciousness of neatly-displayed physical advantages
and by such an air of superior valor. It is true that I found the other day in an amusing French
book (a little book entitled Londres pittoresque, by M. Henri Bellenger) a description of these
majestic warriors which took a humorous view of their grandeur. A Frenchman arriving in London,
says M. Bellenger, stops short in the middle of the pavement and stares aghast at this strange
apparition--"this tall lean fellow, with his wide, short torso perched upon a pair of grasshopper's
legs and squeezed into an adhesive jacket of scarlet cloth, who dawdles himself along with
a little cane in his hand, swinging forward his enormous feet, curving his arms, throwing back
his shoulders, arching his chest, with a mixture of awkwardness, fatuity and stiffness the
most curious and the most exhilarating.... In his general aspect," adds this merciless critic,
"he recalls the circus-rider, minus the latter's flexibility: skin-tight garments, simpering
mouth, smile of a dancing-girl, attempt to be impertinent and irresistible which culminates
only in being ridiculous."

This is a very heavy-handed picture of those exaggerated proportions and that conquering gait
which, as I say, render the tall Life Guardsman one of the most familiar ornaments of the London
streets. But it is when he is armed and mounted that he is most picturesque--when he sits,
monumentally, astride of his black charger in one of the big niches on either side of the gate
of the Horse Guards, cuirassed and helmeted, booted and spurred. I never fail to admire him
as I pass through the adjacent archway, as well as his companions, equally helmeted and booted,
who march up and down beside him, and, as Taine says, alluding in his Notes sur l'Angleterre
to the scene, "posent avec majesté devant les gamins." If I chance to be in St. James's street
when a semi-squadron of these elegant warriors are returning from attendance upon royalty after
a Drawing-Room or a Levee, I am sure to make one of the gamins who stand upon the curbstone
to see them pass. If the day be a fine one at the height of the season, and London happen to
be wearing otherwise the brilliancy of supreme fashion--with beautiful dandies at the club-windows,
and chariots ascending the sunny slope freighted with wigged and flowered coachmen, great armorial
hammercloths, powdered, appended footmen, dowagers and débutantes--then the rattling, flashing,
prancing cavalcade of the long detachment of the Household troops strikes one as the official
expression of a thoroughly well-equipped society. It must be added, however, that it is many
a year since the Life Guards or the Blues have had harder work than this. To escort their sovereign
to the railway-stations at London and Windsor has long been their most arduous duty. They were
present to very good purpose at Waterloo, but since their return from that immortal field they
have not been out of England. Heavy cavalry, in modern warfare, has gone out of fashion, and
in case of a conflict in the East those nimble, pretty fellows the Hussars, with their tight,
dark-blue tunics so brilliantly embroidered with yellow braid, would take precedence of their
majestic comrades. The Hussars are indeed the prettiest fellows of all, and if I were fired
with a martial ambition I should certainly enlist in their ranks. I know of no military personage
more agreeable to the civil eye than a blue-and-yellow hussar, unless indeed it be a young
officer in the Rifle Brigade. The latter is perhaps, to a refined and chastened taste, the
most graceful, the most truly elegant, of all military types. The little riflemen, the common
soldiers, have an extremely useful and durable aspect: with their plain black uniforms, little
black Scotch bonnets, black gloves, total absence of color, they suggest the rigidly practical
and business-like phase of their profession--the restriction of the attention to the simple
specialty of "picking off" one's enemy. The officers are of course more elegant, but their
elegance is sober and subdued. They are dressed all in black, save for a broad, dark crimson
sash which they wear across the shoulder and chest, and for a very slight hint of gold lace
upon their small, round, short-visored caps. They are furthermore adorned with a small quantity
of broad black braid discreetly applied to their tight, long-skirted surtouts. There is a kind
of severe gentlemanliness about this costume which, when it is worn by a tall, slim, neat-waisted
young Englishman with a fresh complexion, a candid eye and a yellow moustache, is of quite
irresistible effect. There is no such triumph of taste as to look rich without high colors
and picturesque without accessories. The imagination is always struck by the figure of a soberly-dressed
gentleman with a sword.

The little riflemen, the Hussars, the Life Guards, the Foot Guards, the artillerymen (whose
garments always look stiffer and more awkwardly fitted than those of their confrères) have
all, however, one quality in common--the appearance of extreme, of even excessive, youth. It
is hardly too much to say that the British army, as a stranger observes it now-a-days, is an
army of boys. All the regiments are boyish: they are made up of lads who range from seventeen
to five-and-twenty. You look almost in vain for the old-fashioned specimen of the British soldier--the
large, well-seasoned man of thirty, bronzed and whiskered beneath his terrible bearskin and
with shoulders fashioned for the heaviest knapsack. This was the ancient English grenadier.
But the modern grenadier, as he perambulates the London pavement, is for the most part a fresh-colored
lad of moderate stature, who hardly strikes one as offering the elements of a very solid national
defence. He enlists, as a general thing, for six years, and if he leave the army at the end
of this term his service in the ranks will have been hardly more than a juvenile escapade.
I often wonder, however, that the unemployed Englishman of humble origin should not be more
often disposed to take up his residence in Her Majesty's barracks. There is a certain street-corner
at Westminster where the recruiting-sergeants stand all day at the receipt of custom. The place
is well chosen, and I suppose they drive a tolerably lively business: all London sooner or
later passes that way, and whenever I have passed I have always observed one of these smart
apostles of military glory trying to catch the ear of one of the dingy London lazzaroni. Occasionally,
if the hook has been skilfully baited, they appear to be conscious of a bite, but as a general
thing the unfashionable object of their blandishments turns away, after an unillumined stare
at the brilliant fancy dress of his interlocutor, with a more or less concise declaration of
incredulity. In front of him stretches, across the misty Thames, the large commotion of Westminster
Bridge, crowned by the huge, towered mass of the Houses of Parliament. To the right of this,
a little effaced, as the French say, is the vague black mass of the Abbey; close at hand are
half a dozen public-houses, convenient for drinking a glass to the encouragement of military
aspiration; in the background are the squalid and populous slums of Westminster. It is a characteristic
congregation of objects, and I have often wondered that among so many eloquent mementos of
the life of the English people the possible recruit should not be prompted by the sentiment
of social solidarity to throw himself into the arms of the agent of patriotism. Speaking less
vaguely, one would suppose that to the great majority of the unwashed and unfed the condition
of a private in one of the queen's regiments would offer much that might be supremely enviable.
It is a chance to become, relatively speaking, a gentleman--more than a gentleman, a "swell"--to
have the grim problem of existence settled at a stroke. The British soldier always presents
the appearance of scrupulous cleanliness: he is scoured, scrubbed, brushed beyond reproach.
His hair is enriched with pomatum and his shoes are radiantly polished. His little cap is worn
in a manner determined by considerations purely æsthetic. He carries a little cane in one hand,
and, like a gentleman at a party, a pair of white gloves in the other. He holds up his head
and expands his chest, and bears himself generally like a person who has reason to invite rather
than to evade the fierce light of modern criticism. He enjoys, moreover, an abundant leisure,
and appears to have ample time and means for participating in the advantages of a residence
in London--for frequenting gin-palaces and music-halls, for observing the beauties of the West
End and cultivating the society of appreciative housemaids. To a ragged and simple-minded rustic
or to a young Cockney of vague resources all this ought to be a brilliant picture. That the
picture should seem to contain any shadows is a proof of the deep-seated relish in the human
mind for our personal independence. The fear of "too many masters" weighs heavily against the
assured comforts and the opportunity of cutting a figure. On the other hand, I remember once
being told by a communicative young trooper with whom I had some conversation that the desire
to "see life" had been his own motive for enlisting. He appeared to be seeing it with some
indistinctness: he was a little tipsy at the time.

I spoke at the beginning of these remarks of the brilliant impressions to be gathered during
a couple of days' stay at Aldershot, and I have delayed much too long to attempt a rapid and
grateful report of them. But I reflect that such a report, however friendly, coming from a
visitor profoundly uninitiated into the military mystery, can have but a relative value. I
may lay myself open to contempt, for instance, in making the simple remark that the big parade
held in honor of the queen's birthday, and which I went down more particularly to see, struck
me, as the young ladies say, as perfectly lovely. I will nevertheless hazard this confession,
for I should otherwise seem to myself to be grossly irresponsive to a delightful hospitality.
Aldershot is a very charming place--an example the more, to my sense, if examples were needed,
of the happy variety of this wonderful little island, its adaptability to every form of human
convenience. Some twenty years ago it occurred to the late prince consort, to whom so many
things occurred, that it would be a good thing to establish a great camp. He cast his eyes
about him, and instantly they rested upon a spot as perfectly adapted to his purpose as if
Nature from the first had had an eye to pleasing him. It was a matter of course that the prince
should find exactly what he looked for. Aldershot is at but little more than an hour from London--a
high, sunny, breezy expanse surrounded by heathery hills. It offers all the required conditions
of liberal space, of quick accessibility, of extreme salubrity, of contiguity to a charming
little tumbled country in which the troops may indulge in ingenious imitations of difficult
man[oe]uvres; to which it behooves me to add the advantage of enchanting drives and walks for
the entertainment of the impressible visitor. In winter, possibly, the great circle of the
camp is rather a prey to the elements, but nothing can be more agreeable than I found it toward
the end of May, with the light fresh breezes hanging about, and the sun-rifts from a magnificently
cloudy sky lighting up all around the big yellow patches of gorse.

At Aldershot the military class lives in huts, a generic name given to certain low wooden structures
of small dimensions and a single story, covering, however, a good many specific variations.
The oblong shanty in which thirty or forty common soldiers are stowed away is naturally a very
different affair from the neat little bungalow of an officer. The buildings are distributed
in chessboard fashion over a very large area, and form two distinct camps. There is also a
substantial little town, chiefly composed of barracks and public-houses; in addition to which,
at crowded seasons, far and near over the plain there is the glitter of white tents. "The neat
little bungalow of an officer," as I said just now: I learned, among other things, what a charming
form of habitation this may be. The ceilings are very low, the partitions are thin, the rooms
are all next door to each other; the place is a good deal like an American "cottage" by the
seaside. But even in these narrow conditions that homogeneous English luxury which is the admiration
of the stranger blooms with its usual amplitude. The specimen which suggests these observations
was cushioned and curtained like a pretty house in Mayfair, and yet its pretensions were tempered
by a kind of rustic humility. I entered it first in the dark, but the next morning, when I
stepped outside to have a look at it by daylight, I burst into pardonable laughter. The walls
were of plain planks painted a dark red: the roof, on which I could almost rest my elbow, was
neatly endued with a coating of tar. But, after all, the thing was very pretty. There was a
matting of ivy all over the front of the hut, thriving as I had never known ivy to thrive upon
a wooden surface: there was a tangle of creepers about all the windows. The place looked like
a "side-scene" in a comic opera. But there was a serious little English lawn in front of it,
over which a couple of industrious red-coats were pulling up and down a garden-roller; and
in the centre of the drive before the door was a tremendous clump of rhododendrons of more
than operatic brilliancy. I leaned on the garden-gate and looked out at the camp: it was twinkling
and bustling in the morning light, which drizzled down upon it in patches from a somewhat agitated
sky. An hour later the camp got itself together and spread itself, in close battalions and
glittering cohorts, over a big green level, where it marched and cantered about most effectively
in honor of a lady living at a quiet Scotch country-house. One of this lady's generals stood
in a corner, and the regiments marched past and saluted. This simple spectacle was in reality
very brilliant. I know nothing about soldiers, as the reader must long since have discovered,
but I had, nevertheless, no hesitation in saying to myself that these were the handsomest troops
in the world. Everything in such a spectacle is highly picturesque, and if the observer is
one of the profane he has no perception of weakness of detail. He sees the long squadrons shining
and shifting, uncurling themselves over the undulations of the ground like great serpents with
metallic scales, and he remembers Milton's description of the celestial hosts. The British
soldier is doubtless not celestial, but the extreme perfection of his appointments makes him
look very well on parade. On this occasion at Aldershot I felt as if I were at the Hippodrome.
There was a great deal of cavalry and artillery, and the dragoons, hussars and lancers, the
beautiful horses, the capital riders, the wonderful wagons and guns, seemed even more theatrical
than military. This came, in a great measure, from the freshness and tidiness of their accessories--the
brightness and tightness of uniforms, the polish of boots and buckles, the newness of leather
and paint. None of these things were the worse for wear: they had the bloom of peace still
upon them. As I looked at the show, and then afterward, in charming company, went winding back
to camp, passing detachments of the great cavalcade, returning also in narrow file, balancing
on their handsome horses along the paths in the gorse-brightened heather, I allowed myself
to wish that since, as matters stood, the British soldier was clearly such a fine fellow and
a review at Aldershot was such a delightful entertainment, the bloom of peace might long remain.

H. JAMES, JR.

A SAXON GOD.

In the year of grace 1854, Ernest Philip King, a young attaché of the English embassy at Athens,
married Haidée Amic, the most beautiful woman in that city. Neither of the pair possessed a
fortune, and their united means afforded a not abundantly luxurious style of living; but they
loved each other, and the fact that he was the portionless son of a Church of England divine,
and she the daughter of an impecunious Greek of noble family and royal lineage, was no drawback
to the early happiness of their wooing and wedding. They had two children, a boy and a girl,
born within two years of each other in Athens: the girl, the elder of the two, they named Hyacinthe;
the boy was called Tancredi.

Five years after this marriage had taken place King lost his position at the embassy, and only
received in exchange for it a mean government clerkship in Rome at a meagre salary. Thither
he removed, and after dragging out a miserable and disappointed existence five years longer,
he died in the arms of his beautiful and still young wife. Thereafter the youthful widow managed
to keep life in herself and her two little ones by dint of pinching, management and contrivance
on the pittance that had come to her from the estate of her impecunious father. They lived
in a palace, it is true--but who does not live in a palace in Rome?--high up, where the cooing
doves built their nests under the leaden eaves, and where the cold winds whistled shrilly in
their season.

Such accomplishments as the mother was mistress of she imparted to her children. What other
education they received was derived from intercourse with many foreigners, English, French,
Russians, and from familiarity with the sights and wonders of Rome, its galleries, ruins, palaces,
studios.

At eighteen Tancredi had obtained a situation as amanuensis to an English historian resident
in Italy; and Hyacinthe already brooded over some active and unusual future that spread itself
as yet but dimly before her. She inherited from her mother her unparalleled beauty--the clear,
colorless, flawless skin, the straight features, the lustrous eyes with their luxuriant lashes
and long level brows, her lithe and gracious figure and slender feet and hands: of the English
father her only physical trace was the large, full, mobile mouth with its firm white teeth.
She had from him the modern spirit of unrest and the modern impetus and energy: from the Greek
mother, a counteracting languor of temperament and an antique cast of mind.

Such, in a measure, was Hyacinthe King at twenty--a curious compound of beauty, unspent verve,
irritated longings, half-superstitious imaginings, and half-developed impulses, ideas and mental
powers; practically, an assistant to the worn mother in her household duties, a haunter of
the beautiful places in the city of her adoption, an occasional mingler in the scant festivities
of artists, a good linguist, knowing English thoroughly and speaking French and German with
fluent accuracy. Watch her, with me, as she walks one spring day along the narrow Via Robbia,
down which a slip of sunlight glints scantily on her young head, and, emerging into a wider
thoroughfare, ascends at last the Scala Regia of the Vatican. The girl is known there, and
the usually not over-courteous officials allow her to pass on at her will through hall after
hall of splendor and priceless treasure. She is neither an English tourist with Baedeker, Murray
and a note-book, nor an American traveller with pencil, loose leaves and a possible photographic
apparatus in her pocket: therefore to the vigilant eye of the guardian of the pope's palace
she is an innocuous being. Hyacinthe glides quietly through the Clementino Museum, with never
a glance for the lovely, blooming Mercury of the Belvedere, or even one peep in at the cabinet
where the sad Laocoön for ever writhes in impotent struggles, or a look of love for rare and
radiant Apollo, or one of surprise for Hercules with the Nemean lion. She has reached the Hall
of Statues--that superb gallery with its subtly-tesselated pavement, its grand marble columns
with their Ionic capitals, its arches and walls of wondrous marbles--and here she stops with
a little sigh before the Cupid of Praxiteles, shorn of his wings by ruthless Time or some still
more ruthless human destroyer. But oh the lovesomeness of that wingless Love, the sensuous
psalmody that seems about to part the young lips, and the glad eyes one may fancy glancing
under that careless infant brow! Hyacinthe stands before it a long, long time while many parties
come in and go out, and only moves on a little when an insolent young Frenchman offers a surmise
as to her being a statue herself. She moves only as far as Ariadne: the jeune Français has
made a progressive movement also, and notes behind his Paris hat to his companion that the
girl looks something like the marble. She does. Though the grief of the face of the daughter
of Minos as she lies deserted by her lover on the rocky shore of Naxos be a poignant and a
present woe, there is the shadow of its mate on the brow and lips of the girl who gazes at
its pure and pallid and all-unavailing loveliness.

The Frenchmen have gone with their guide, and there is a great stillness falling on the place,
and no more tourists come that way. The light is fading, but Hyacinthe turns back to the mutilated
Cupid, and ere long sits down at the base of the statue, and her head rests well on the cold
marble while the darkness grows, and the guardians of the Vatican either forget or do not distinguish
the white of her gown from the blurred blanchedness of the Greek Love.

So, while the mother waits at home, and wails and prays and wonders and seeks comfort among
her neighbors, the daughter sleeps and dreams; and her dream is this: The wingless Love looks
up and laughs as in welcome, and Hyacinthe looks up too, and they both see a new marble standing
there in front of them: nay, not a marble, though white as Parian, for the eyes that laugh
back at Love's and hers are blue as the blue Italian summer skies, and the curling locks of
hair on the brow are of shining gold, and the palms of the beautiful hands are rosy with the
bright blood of life.

And Love asks, "What would you?"

And the strange comer answers, "They say I need nothing."

And Hyacinthe in her dream says, "Is what they say the truth?" But even while she speaks the
stranger sinks farther and farther from her sight, his glad blue eyes still laughing back at
Love and her as he fades into one with the darkness afar off where Ariadne slumbers in sorrow.
And the wingless Love smiles sadly as he speaks: "Seek your art, O daughter of a Greek mother!
and you will find in it the answer to your question." And Hyacinthe, sighing, wakes in the
dreary dusk of the first dawn.

She was affrighted at first, and then slowly there came upon her, with the fast-increasing
daylight, a great peace.

"'Seek your art!'" the girl murmured to herself, pushing back her dark locks and gazing away
toward the spot where the hero of her dream had vanished. "So will I, Cupid, and there I shall
find the answer to my question, to all questions; for I shall find him whom my soul loveth.
Who was he, what was he, so resplendent and shining among all these old Greeks? Where shall
I seek? Say, Cupid? But you are a silent god, and will not answer me. I know, I know," she
cried, clasping her slender hands together. "I will go to my father's country, where, he used
to tell me, all the men are fair and all the women good. There I shall find my art and you,
my Saxon god."

When the mother heard of the dream and the resolution she was sad at first, but decided finally
to write to the two maiden sisters of Ernest King, who had idolized their young, handsome brother,
and who answered promptly that they would gladly receive his only daughter. Hyacinthe took
a brave and smiling leave of the madre and Tancredi, after having gone to look her farewell
at the wingless Love and the sleeping stricken Ariadne. "Ah, dear Cupid," she whispered, "I
am going to-day to find my art and the Saxon whom my soul loveth. Addio, you and Ariadne!"

From the old into the new, from the tried to the untried, from inertness to action, from the
Greek marbles to Saxon men and women, from Rome to Britain, from breathing to living. Down
the Strand, past Villiers, Essex, Salisbury, Northumberland and many more streets whose names
tell of vanished splendors, whose dingy lengths are smoke-blackened, and far enough off from
the whole aroma of Belgravia, is Craven street. The houses are all of a pattern--prim, dingy,
small-windowed habitations, but within this one there must be comfort, for the fire-flames
dance on the meek minute panes and a heavy curl of smoke is cutting the air above its square,
business-like little chimney-pot. Drawing-room there is none to this mansion, but there is
a pleasant square substitute that the Misses King call "the library" in the mornings, and "the
parlor" after their early, unfashionable dinner. It is full of old-time furniture, such as
connoisseurs are searching after now--dark polished tables with great claws and little claws;
high presses and cupboards brass bound and with numberless narrow drawers; spindle-legged chairs,
with their worn embroidered backs and seats; a tall thin bookcase; a haircloth sofa with a
griffin at either end mounting savage guard over an erect pillow; a thick hearth-rug; and two
easy-chairs with cushioned arms and two little old ladies, the one quaint and frigid--she had
once loved and had had a successful rival; the other quaint and sweet--she had loved too, and
had lost her lover in the depths of the sea.

The rattle of a cab down the still street, a pull-up, a short, sharp knock, and in two minutes
more Hyacinthe King had been welcomed kindly by one aunt and tenderly pressed to the heart
of the other. A sober housemaid had taken her wraps, and was even now unpacking her boxes in
the chamber above. She was sitting in Miss Juliet's own armchair, and had greatly surprised
Ponto, the ancient cat, by taking him into her lap.

"Will you ring for tea and candles, sister?" asked Miss King primly.--"We have had tea of course,
Hyacinthe, but we will have some infused for you at once."

"Perhaps Hyacinthe doesn't like tea," suggested Miss Juliet with her thin, once-pretty hand
on the rope.

"Not like tea? Absurd! Was not her father an Englishman, I should like to know? Our niece is
not a heathen, Juliet."

"But, aunt," smiled Hyacinthe, "I do not like tea, after all. You are both so kind to me,"
sighed she: "I hope you will not ever regret my coming to England and to you."

"It is not likely that our niece--"

"That Ernest's daughter--" said Miss Juliet softly.

"Should ever do aught to give us cause to blush--"

"Save with pride and pleasure," added the younger old lady, laying her fingers on the girl's
soft, dark, abundant hair.

"I hope not, aunts." Hyacinthe looked at Miss King a bit wistfully as she spoke. "You know
I am not come to be a burden to you--the madre wrote: I am come to England to pursue my art."

"My sister-in-law did--"

"Your dear mother did--" Miss Juliet chimed in gently.

"Write something of the kind, but, Hyacinthe, ladies do not go out into the world seeking their
fortunes. I believe I have heard"--Miss King speaks austerely and as from some pinnacle of
pride--"that there are women who write and lecture and paint, and, in short, do anything that
is disgraceful; but you, my dear, are not of that blood."

"Yes, aunt, I am. I would do any of those things--must do one of them or something--to help
me find my Saxon god."

"Your what?" cries Miss King, staring over her spectacles at the serene, heroic young face.

"Your what, dear child?" murmurs Miss Juliet protectively, looking down into her niece's dark,
fathomless eyes.

"Saxon god," says she quite low, for the first time in all her life experiencing a conscious
shyness.

"Are you a pagan, Hyacinthe King?" shrieks the elder aunt.

"Tell us all about it, my dear," says Miss Juliet soothingly.

And Hyacinthe tells them her dream and her resolve.

"So much for an honest English gentleman wedding with a--"

"Lovely Greek girl," finishes Miss Juliet quietly, glancing for the first time at her sister.
"They say your mother was very beautiful, Hyacinthe."

"Yes the madre is beautiful: she is like the Venus of the Capitol."

Miss King utters a woeful "Ah!" which her sister endeavors to smother in some kind inquiry.

When Hyacinthe has been shown to her room by the sober housemaid, the two old ladies discuss
the situation in full, and Miss Juliet's gentleness so far prevails over Miss King's frigid
despair as to wring from the latter a tardy promise to let the young niece pursue the frightful
tenor of her way, at least for a time.

A week after her arrival in London, the girl, having informed herself with a marvellous quickness
of intelligence on various practical points, calmly laid her plans before her aunts, the elder
of whom listened in frigid silence, the younger with assurances of assistance and counsel.
She then proceeded to put her projects into action with a curious matter-of-factness that,
considering the purely ideal nature of her aim, is to be accounted for in no other way than
by the recollection of her parentage--the Greek soul and the British brain.

On a Wednesday morning Hyacinthe and Miss Juliet repaired to the studio of a great sculptor:
the niece had previously written to him stating her desire, and the aunt, nervous and excited,
clung to the girl's firm arm in a kind of terror.

"You wish to know if you have a talent for my art?" he asked kindly, looking into the pallid
young face with its earnest uplifted look. "I think that had you the least gift that way, having
lived in Rome, you would know it without my assistance. However, here is a bit of clay: we
shall soon see. Try what your fingers can make of it--if a cup like this one." He turned off,
but watched her, nevertheless, with fixed curiosity as she handled the lump of damp earth.

Hyacinthe could make nothing of it save twist it from one shapeless mass into another.

"I had hoped it would be sculpture," she said a bit regretfully as she left the great man's
workroom. "In my dream he was a statue."

On Thursday the two went to the atelier of a renowned painter. He too bent curious interested
eyes upon the absorbed and searching face of his strange applicant as he placed pencils, canvas
and brushes before her, and directed her to look for a model to the simple vase that stood
opposite or to the bust of Clyte that was beside her. But Hyacinthe had no power over these
things, and the two turned their faces back toward the small house in Craven street.

On Friday they sought out a celebrated musician, but the long, supple hands--veritable "piano-hands"
he noted from the first--availed the girl in no way here. The maestro said she "might spend
years in study, but the soul was not attuned to it."

When Saturday came they went to a famous teacher for the voice. But, alas! Hyacinthe, he said
frankly, had "no divine possibilities shrined in her mellow tones." Perhaps she was a little,
just a little, disheartened on Saturday night. If so, none knew it.

On Sunday the old ladies took her to St. Martin-le-Grand's church, but all she said over the
early cold dinner was, "Women cannot preach in the churches. I could not find him there."

And Miss King said grace after that meat in a loud and aggressive voice, but Miss Juliet whispered
a soft and sweet "Amen."

On Monday morning Hyacinthe slipped from the house unseen. There was a vein of subtlety and
finesse in her that came to the surface on occasion: it had been in Haidée Amic and in her
ancestors. She repaired to a maître de ballet, an old man who lived in an old house in the
East End.

"Can you learn to dance, mademoiselle--learn to dance 'superbly'?" repeated the danseur after
his applicant. "Well, I should say no, most decidedly--never. You have not a particle of chic,
coquetry: you were made for tragedy, mademoiselle, and not for the airy, indefinable graces
of my art. You should devote yourself to the drama."

Hyacinthe looked up, and the old Italian repeated his assertion, adding a recommendation to
seek an interview with Mr. Arbuthnot, the proprietor and manager of one of the principal theatres.
Before Hyacinthe returned to the little domicile in Craven street she had been enrolled as
a member of the company of this temple of the dramatic art.

Arbuthnot was speculative, and withal lucky: he had never brought out even a "successful failure,"
and a something in this odd young woman's beauty, earnestness, frankness, pleased him. He gave
her the "balcony scene," of course, to read to him; noted her poses, which were singularly
felicitous; knew at once that she was not cast for the lovesick Veronese maiden; was surprised
to discover that she was quite willing to follow his advice--to begin in small parts and work
her way up if possible. The shrewd London manager foresaw triumphs ahead when the insignificant
"Miss H. Leroy" should pass into the actress Hyacinthe King.

"Aunts, I went out by myself," the girl says as she dawdles shyly over her newly-acquired habit
of tea-drinking that evening, "because I knew--I fancied--that you, Aunt Juliet, would not
care to go with me where I was going."

"Yes, dear," says Miss Juliet, glad to have the curious child of her favorite brother back
with her in safety.

"A foolish and an unwarrantable step, Hyacinthe, which I trust--I trust--you will never repeat."
Thus Miss King, adding with severity, "May I inquire, Hyacinthe, where you went?"

"To Bozati the ballet-master first."

"To whom?" Miss King draws forth an old-fashioned salts-bottle, and Miss Juliet glances nervously
at the tea-tray. "To whom? Can it be possible that my niece, your father's daughter--No, no!
my ears deceive me."

"He said I never could learn to be anything more than a coryphée, aunt, and I knew that that
would not be accounted an art," she says quite low. "But I then went to Mr. Arbuthnot. You
know him, aunt?"

"I have heard of such a person," answers Miss King, peering austerely over her spectacles at
Hyacinthe.

"He has engaged me at a salary of two pounds a week, and he says that some day I shall be great."
Her eyes dilate and look out afar, through the tiny window-panes, into a limitless and superb
future. "I have found my art; and I am so happy!"

Miss Juliet's glance intercepts her sister's speech. There is silence in the quaint, small
parlor that night; and for the first time in many a year the memory of her lost lover's first
kiss rests softly on Miss King's wan, wrinkled cheek: for the first time in many a year she
has remembered the perfection of him and forgotten the perfidy.

That was October.

This is June.

"For thirty-seven consecutive nights the girl has held the public of this great capital spellbound
by the magical power of her art. She has great beauty--Greek features lighted up by Northern
vividness and intellectuality; but transcendent beauty falls to the lot of very many actresses,
yet it is not to be said of any one of them that they have what this unheralded, unknown girl
possesses--tragic genius such as thrilled through the Hebrew veins of dead Rachel, and flew
from her, a magnetic current, straight to the hearts and brains of her auditors. Of such metal
is made this new star. She has as yet appeared but in one rôle, that of Adrienne in Scribe's
play, but within the compass of its five acts she runs the wild and weary gamut from crowned
love to crowned despair. It is a new interpretation, and a remarkable one--an interpretation
that is tinged with the blight of our inquisitive and mournful age: self-consciousness, that
terrible tormentor in her soul, sits for ever in judgment upon every impulse of the heart of
Adrienne, and makes of pain a stinging poison, and of pleasure but a poor potentiality. Her
death-scene is singular and awful--awful in its physical adherence to realism, and singular
in that it does not disgust, or even horrify, but leaves a memory of peace with the listener,
who has not failed to catch the last strain for sight of the divine and dying eyes." So the
critic of the London oracle wrote of Hyacinthe King.

That night the people had crowned her with a wreath of gold laurel-leaves, and she was walking
to her dressing-room, when, as she passed the green-room door, a merry laugh made her glance
in. There were fifty people there--actors, journalists, swells and hangers-on of the playhouse.
A little to the right of the group, and talking and laughing with two or three others, stood
a man both young and handsome.

Hyacinthe went toward him, and the people, unused to seeing her there for a long time past,
hushed their talk, and one of them marked the newness of the light that shone in her eyes and
the happiness that smiled on her lips as she came. He was a poet, and he went home and made
verses on her: he had never thought of such a thing before. She raised the wreath of laurel
from her brows and lifted it up to the golden head of the man whose laugh she had caught. "My
Saxon god!" she murmured, so low that none heard her save him, and then, leaving the crown
on his head, she turned and walked away. She went home to the shabby house in Craven street,
which was still her home, and before she slept she whispered to Miss Juliet, "I have found him."

In less than twenty-four hours the scene enacted in the green-room of the theatre had been
reported everywhere--first in the clubs, then in all the salons--not last in the pretty boudoir
of Lady Florence Ffolliott.

Every night thereafter Hyacinthe saw her hero sitting in his stall: he never missed once, but
generally came in well on toward the end of the performance. At the close of a fortnight, as
she was making her way to her room after the curtain had come down for the last time, she met
him face to face: he had planned it so.

"What would you?" she asked in the odd foreign fashion that clung to her still, and showed
itself when she was taken unawares.

"They say I need nothing;" and the blue eyes laugh down into hers. "They say I need nothing
now that I have been crowned by a King with laurel-leaves." But even as he speaks the smile
fades from his lips: he sees no answering flash on hers.

"That is what you said in the Vatican that night," she says. "Is it true?"

He begins to fear that she is losing her mind, but he speaks gently to her: "Have we met before,
then?"

Hyacinthe, standing between two dusty flies while the mirth of the farce rings out from the
stage, tells her dream, for the third time, to-night to him. "Is it true that you need nothing?"
she asks again, raising anxious eyes to his.

For a moment the man wavers. Last night he would have laughed to scorn the idea of his not
being ready with a pretty speech for a beautiful actress: just now he is puzzled for a reply,
and he knows full well that some strange new jarring hand is sweeping the strings of his life.
"It is true," he sighs, remembering a true heart that loves him. "I have wealth, position--these
things first, for they breed the rest," he says with a small sneer--"troops of friends and
the promised hand of a woman whom I have asked to marry me."

"I am sorry," she says at last with a child's sad, unconscious inflection, "but all the same,
I have found you. Cupid said I should."

He surveys her calculatingly: he is a very keen man of the world, and he has recovered sufficiently
from the peculiarity of the situation to speculate upon it with true British acumen. Shall
he, or shall he not, put a certain question to her, or leave the matter at rest for ever? Being
a person well used to gratifying himself, he asks his question: "Supposing that it had not
been true, what would you have had to say to me then?" And, strange to say, his face flushes
as he finishes--not hers.

"Nothing." The word comes coldly forth without a fellow. He knows then that she has only looked
at Love, and that the thoughtless harmony of his life is done for him.

"May I see you sometimes?" he cries as she makes a step onward.

"When you will," she replies, going farther along the narrow passage, and then looking back
at him clearly. "I have found you: I am very content. And if you thought I loved you--Well,
Love, you know, was a blind god, and so must ever be content to look at happiness through another's
eyes."

He went away, and he said to himself, "She does not know what love means."

Night after night found him at the theatre, and night after night saw him seek at least a few
moments' talk with her; and always he came away thinking her a colder woman than any of the
statues she was so fond of speaking about. In her conversation there was no personality; and
although her intellect pleased him, the lack of anything else annoyed him in equal proportion.
And yet he loved the woman whom he was going to marry. She was a sweet woman--"God never made
a sweeter," he told himself a hundred times a day. He had wooed her and won her, and wished
to make her his wife.

She was a sweet woman. For weeks now she had heard harsh rumors and evil things of him that
made her heart ache, but she had given no sign, nor would she have ever done so had not her
friends goaded her to the point. She hears the light footstep coming along the corridor toward
her, and she knows that it comes this morning at her especial call. She sees the bonny face
and feels the light kiss on her cheek. Heaven forgive her if she inwardly wonder if these lips
she loves have last rested on another woman's face!

"Roy," she says, stealing up to him and laying one of her lovely round arms about his neck,
"tell me, dear, if you have ceased to love me--if you would rather--rather break our engagement?
Because, dear, better a parting now, before it is too late, than a lifelong misery afterward."
There are tears in the blue bewitching eyes, and tears in the gentle voice that he is not slow
to feel.

"Florence"--the young man catches her in his arms--"who has--What do you mean? I have not ceased
to love you." All the fair fascination that has made her so dear to him in the past rushes
over him now to her rescue.

"Then, Roy, why, why--Oh, I cannot say it!" Her pretty head, gold like his own, falls on his
shoulder.

"Look up, love." He is not a coward, whatever else. "You mean to say, 'Why do I, a man professing
to love one woman, constantly seek the society of another?' Do not you?"

She bows her head, her white lids droop. There is a pause so long that the ticking of the little
clock on the mantel seems a noise in the stillness. He puts her out of his arms, rises, picks
up a newspaper, throws it down, and says, "God help me! I don't know." Then another pause;
and now the ticking of the little clock is fairly riotous. "Florence, love," kneeling by her,
"bear with me. It's a fascination, an infatuation--an intellectual disloyalty to you, if you
will--but it is nothing more, and it must die out soon."

Lady Dering was a charming woman: all her friends agreed upon that point, and also upon another--that
an invitation to visit Stokeham Park was equivalent to a guarantee for so many days of unalloyed
pleasure. It was a grand old place, not quite three hours from town, with winding broad avenues
and glimpses of sweeping smooth lawns between the oaks and beeches. And the company which the
mistress of Stokeham had gathered about her this autumn was, if possible, a more congenial
and yet varied one than usual. Having no children of her own, Lady Dering enjoyed especially
the society of young people, and generally contrived to have a goodly number of them about
her--Mildred and Mabel Masham, Lady Isobel French, Lady Florence Ffolliott, her cousin the
little Viscount Harleigh--who was very far gone in love with his uncle's daughter, by the by--the
Hon. Hugh Leroy Chandoce and a host of others.

Her ladyship, telegram in hand, has just knocked at Florence Ffolliott's door. Florence is
a special favorite with the old lady: she approves thoroughly of her engagement, which was
formally announced at Stokeham last year, and of the man of her choice, who at the present
moment is lighting a cigar and cogitating in a somewhat ruffled frame of mind over the piece
of news he has just been made acquainted with by his hostess.

"Florence, my dear," says her ladyship, "I am the most fortunate woman in the world. I have
been longing for a new star in my domestic firmament, and, behold! it dawns. I expected to
have her here some time, but not so early as this; and the charming creature sends me a telegram
that she arrives by the eleven-o'clock express this morning: I have just sent to the station
for her. I met Roy on my way to you, and conveyed the intelligence to him, but of course he
only looked immensely bored: these absurd men! they never can take an interest in but one woman
at a time." Lady Florence's quick color came naturally enough. "Now, my child, guess the name
of the new luminary."

"I'm quite sure I can't," says the girl, her roses paling to their usual pink. "Tell me, dear
Lady Dering: suspense is terrible;" and she laughs merrily.

"Hyacinthe King, the great actress, my dear: could anything be more delicious?" Lady Dering
has been absent on the Continent during the season, and is utterly ignorant of all the on dits
of the day.

"Charming!" murmurs Florence Ffolliott with the interested inflection of thorough good breeding;
but her hands, lying clasped together on her lap, clasp each other cruelly.

"Yes," continues her ladyship. "I knew her father in my young days--Ernest King--the Kings
of Essex, you know?" Florence nods assent. "He was the handsomest fellow imaginable, married
a lovely Greek girl; and here comes his daughter startling the world with her genius twenty
odd years after my little flirtation with him. It makes one feel old, child--old. I called
on her the last day I was in London, but she was out; so then I wrote and begged her to come
to Stokeham when she could. Now I must leave you, dear. What are you reading? Poetry, of course.
I never read anything else either when I was your age and was engaged to Sir Harry." The bright,
stately lady laughs gayly as she goes, and Florence Ffolliott sits before her fire until luncheon-time,
turning over a dozen wild fancies in her brain--fancies that do no honor either to the man
she loves or the woman whom she cannot help disliking heartily. But her just, and withal generous,
soul dismisses them at last, and she bows her head to the blow and acknowledges it to be what
it is--an accident.

That the advent of Hyacinthe King in their midst should have created no sensation among the
party assembled at Stokeham would scarcely be a reasonable proposition: it did, and not only
the excitement that the coming of a renowned meteor of the theatrical firmament might be expected
to occasion in a house full of British subjects, but an undertone of surmise, and some sarcasms,
between those--the majority--who were well enough aware of Roy Chandoce's peculiar infatuation
for the beautiful young player. The pair were watched keenly, it must be confessed, but with
a courtesy and savoir faire that admitted no betrayal of this absolutely human curiosity--by
none more keenly and more guardedly than by Lady Florence Ffolliott. Neither she nor they discovered
aught in the conduct of either the man or the woman to find fault with or cavil at.

Hyacinthe was quickly voted a "man's woman" by the women, and as quickly pronounced a "thorough
enigma" by the men, not one of whom had succeeded, even after the lapse of fourteen days, in
arousing in her that which is most dear to the masculine soul, a preference--although it be
a mild, a shamming or an evanescent preference--for one of them above another. Sir Vane Masham
set her down over his third dinner's sherry as "an iceberg," in which kind opinion the little
viscount joined, with the amendment of "polar refrigerator." Young Arthur French, who was very
hard hit indeed, said she was like a "beautiful, heartless marble statue," but the poet, who
had made verses on her, called her a "white lily with a heart of flame."

Not one of them all, however, could dispute the perfect quality of her beauty to-night. In
a robe of violet satin, with pale jealous topazes shining on her neck and arms and in the sleek
braids of her dark hair, Hyacinthe was fit for the regards of emperors had they been there
to see. They were not. In the conservatory at Stokeham, where she stood amid the tropical trees
and flowers and breathing the warm close scent of rich blossoms foreign to English soil, there
was only one man to look at her, and he was no potentate, but a blond young fellow, with blue
blood in his veins and a sad riot in his heart.

For the first time since they have been in the house together he has left his betrothed wife's
side and sought hers: in the face of this little watching world about him he has, at last,
quietly risen from the seat at Florence Ffolliott's side and followed that trail of sheeny
satin into the conservatory. "Not one word for me?" he says in a low voice that has in it a
sort of desperation.

She turns startled and looks at him: "Who wants me? Who sent you to fetch me?"

"No one 'sent' me," he replies bitterly: "I 'want' you. Hyacinthe! Hyacinthe!" He stretches
two arms out toward her, and when he dies Roy Chandoce remembers the look that leaps then into
the eyes of this girl.

"Do not touch me!" She shrinks away with the expression of awakened womanhood on her fair face.
"If you do, you will make me mad." For he has followed and is close to her.

"No, no, no! Not 'mad'--happy! Ah, Hyacinthe!" His arms are no more outstretched or empty:
they enfold all the beauty and all the bliss that now and then give mortality fresh faith in
heaven. "Ah, Hyacinthe!" That is all that he says, and she is silent while his kisses fall
upon her mouth and cheeks and brow and hands.

And when, ten minutes later, he goes back where he came from, he knows that it is no "intellectual
disloyalty" that lured him from his seat: he knows that the poet was right, and Vane and the
viscount and Arthur all wrong.

There is to be a meet at Stokeham Park the next morning, and Hyacinthe, for the first time
in her life, witnesses the pretty sight. Two or three only of the ladies are going to ride
to cover, among them Lady Florence Ffolliott, who looks superbly on her horse and in her habit,
and feels superbly too--in a transient physical fashion--as she glances down at Hyacinthe,
who in her clinging creamy gown, with a furred cloak thrown about her, stands in the porch
to see them off. She knows nothing of horses or riding, and is therefore debarred from the
exhilarating pleasure, and has also declined Lady Dering's offer to drive with her to the first
cover that is to be drawn. But the pretty and, to her, novel picture of the various vehicles
with their freight of merry matrons, girls and children, the scarlet coats of the sportsmen
and the servants, the hounds drawn up a good piece off, the four ladies who are going to ride,
and stately, cheery Lady Dering exchanging cordial and courteous greetings with her friends
and neighbors, while good-hearted Sir Harry gives some last instructions to his whip, is sufficiently
charming.

"You have eaten no breakfast, Mr. Chandoce," cries the hostess, "and you are quite as white
as Lady Florence's glove there. I insist upon your taking a glass of something before you are
off.--Patrick!" But before Patrick has even started on my lady's errand Hyacinthe has fetched
from the hall a glass of claret-cup, and holds it up to him where he sits on his lithe and
mettlesome hunter.

He takes it, drains it to the last drop and hands it back to her. Their eyes meet, and his
lips murmur very softly a Saxon's sweetest word of endearment--"My darling!"

"Quarter-past eleven!" calls Sir Harry; and the gay cavalcade moves off, and Hyacinthe, waving
adieu to Lady Dering, watches it fade away among the windings of the avenue.

"Mr. Chandoce has a green mount," mutters one of the footmen to another.

"Yes, he have, but he's not a green horseman."

"No," admits the other.

Hyacinthe remembers their talk later in the day--that day that she passes in such a restless
wandering from one room to another--from the conservatory to the library, and from music-room
to hall. Finally, at four o'clock she has composed herself with a book in the library, and
before the fire sits half lost in reading, half in wondering. Without, the early gloom of the
short day is gathering, and the bare trees cast murk shadows all across the frostbitten lawns,
and late birds twitter their good-night notes, and a few sleepy rooks caw coldly to each other.

She hears none of this, is as self-absorbed a being as ever lived--one whose whole solitude
is full to overflowing with the thought of another. But at last there breaks in upon Hyacinthe's
still dream a shriek, and then wild tumult, noises and excited speech, and the girl springs
to her feet, and in a flash is out in the wide hall in the very midst of it all.

He lies there quite, quite dead. For ever flown the breath that made of this beautiful clay
a living man. Lady Florence has him halfway in her arms as she kneels on the floor beside the
body of her lover, and between her sobs cries out to them to "Go for the surgeons!" for whom
long since Sir Harry sent. Hyacinthe put her hands behind her and leaned heavily against the
column that by good chance she found there. When the crowd parted from him a little she leaned
over a bit and stared: that was all.

"Do not you touch him!" cried the English maiden, maddened by her grief, as she glanced up
at the fair face.

"No, I will not: I do not wish to," returns the other softly, straightening herself; and leaning
there in her close gown, she is as tearless as some caryatid.

When the surgeons have come on their useless mission, and gone, when Florence Ffolliott stands
weeping and wringing her hands, Hyacinthe ventures over a pace nearer to the two.

"You see, Lady Florence," she says very gently, and with that curious sorrowful look on her
face that made it so like to the Ariadne's--"you see, he was not meant for any woman: he was
a Saxon god."

A year later Lady Florence Ffolliott's engagement to her cousin, the little lovelorn viscount,
was announced.

Sir Henry Leighton told me last week that he had been called in consultation with regard to
Hyacinthe King, and that there were not three months of life in her. "She cannot act," said
the great medical man: "she plays her parts, it is true, but the power to portray has gone
out of her. She is going back to Rome for a while, and, I can assure you, she will never return."

MARGUERITE F. AYMAR.

MUSICAL NOTATION.

Why is it that the knowledge of music is not more common?--that is, why is it that there are
so few people in this and every other country who are able to read and write music as they
read and write their mother-tongue? Is it that the musical ear is a rare gift? Evidently not,
for music is composed of a small number of elements, which are found for the most part in any
popular air, and almost every person can sing one or more of these airs correctly. It is not,
then, the musical ear nor the sense of time which is wanting. Neither is the cause to be attributed
to the fact that few study music; for, although the teaching of music is by no means so general
as it should be, still it is taught in our schools, public and private, singing-schools are
common even in our small villages, and there is no lack of teachers both of vocal and instrumental
music. And yet out of every hundred who take up the study of music, it is safe to say that
about ninety abandon it after a short time, discouraged by the almost insurmountable difficulties
presented at every turn. Only those succeed who are endowed with rare natural aptitude, an
indomitable will, and time--four or five years at least--to devote to an art which is as yet
a luxury to the masses of the people.

M. Galin, his pupil M. Chevé and other advocates of reform in musical notation declare that
the people are deprived of this grand source of culture because of the blind, inconsistent
and wholly unscientific nature of the ordinary musical notation. At first this seems incredible,
but one has only to compare this notation with that elaborated by Émile Chevé after Galin's
theory to become convinced that the statement is true. People are apt to say, "Why, it cannot
be that our system of writing music is so defective: in this age of improvements and scientific
precision gross inconsistencies would have been eliminated long ago." And so, indeed, they
would have been but for the fact that the very basis of the system is altogether at fault.
How are the Chinese, for example, to "improve" their system of writing? It is simply impossible.
They have some thousands of abstract characters, hieroglyphs standing for things or thoughts.
All these must be swept away, and in their place must come an alphabet where each letter stands
for an elementary sound. These elementary sounds are few in number in any language. So of our
musical notation. It is doubtful if it can be materially improved; it must be discarded for
a system of fewer elements and a more clear and precise combination of them.

No, it is not strange that we have not adopted a better method of musical notation before this.
Think how long a struggle it required to abandon the cumbersome Roman notation for the short,
clear and precise Arabic--how many centuries of feeble infancy the science of mathematics passed
before the invention of logarithms rendered the most tedious calculations rapid and easy. Most
people take things as they seem, giving but little thought to their meanings and relations
to each other; and so an awkward method may be followed a long time without protest. People
are blamed for their devotion to routine, but devotion to routine is perfectly natural. It
is mental inertia, and corresponds to that property in physics--the inability of a body of
itself to start when at rest, or stop or change its course when in motion. And then the general
distrust of new things--"new-fangled notions," as contempt terms them--retards the examination
and adoption of improved and labor-saving methods.

It is more than fifty years since Pierre Galin, professor of mathematics in the institute for
deaf mutes at Bordeaux, published his Exposition d'une nouvelle Méthode pour l'Enseignement
de la Musique, and more than thirty since his distinguished disciple, Émile Chevé, demonstrated
practically, in the military gymnasium at Lyons, the immeasurable superiority of that method;
and yet such is the repugnance of teachers of music to any change in their routine that they
have paid little or no attention to the work of Galin and his followers. The Méthode élémentaire
de la Musique vocale, by M. and Mme. Émile Chevé, has never been translated into English. It
was published in Paris by the authors in 1851--a work of over five hundred pages in royal octavo,
and a most clear and exhaustive exposition of the method which they followed with such success.

In proof of the superiority of that method, an account of M. Chevé's test-experiment at the
military gymnasium at Lyons in 1843 will be interesting. The gymnasium was at that time under
the direction of two officers of the French army, Captain d'Argy and Lieutenant Grenier. The
facts are taken from their official report of the experiment.

By order of Lieutenant-General Lascours the soldiers of the gymnasium were placed at the disposition
of M. Chevé, that he might make a trial of his method. General Lascours further ordered that
the officers in charge of the gymnasium should be present at every lesson, and report carefully
the progress of the pupils and the final results of the course.

The members of the class were taken at large from the twelfth, sixteenth and twenty-ninth regiments
of the line, fifty from each. M. Chevé accepted all as they came, and agreed formally to bring
eight-tenths of the class of one hundred and fifty in one year to the following results: (1)
To understand the theory of music analytically; (2) To sing alone and without any instrument
any piece of music within the compass of ordinary voices; (3) To write improvised airs from
dictation.

"Candor compels us to admit," says the report, "that nearly all of the soldiers showed the
greatest repugnance to attending the course, and did so only because they were ordered to do
so. Several months elapsed before this bad spirit could be conquered, and before the majority
of them could be brought to practise the vocal exercises. Some even refused to try to sing,
on the ground that they were old, that they had no voice, that they could not read, etc."

The first lesson took place October 1, 1842. There were five a week, of an hour and a half
each. At the end of the month the professor wished to classify the voices, and required each
pupil to sing alone. The experiment was rather discouraging. More than two-thirds were unable
to sing the scale: twelve refused to utter a sound, and declared that nothing would induce
them to try. These twelve were immediately dismissed. The rest remained, though some confessed
that they had not sung a note since the beginning of the course. These, however, now promised
to practise all the exercises in future. Under these unfavorable circumstances the professor
engaged anew to fulfil his contract, on condition that the pupils would submit to practise
the exercises conscientiously and attend regularly. From this time, with the exception of three
or four rebellious spirits, none were rejected.

The month of October was not very profitable to the pupils, on account of continual absences
necessitated by military reviews. April and May of the following year (1843) also brought many
interruptions through the various demands of the service. Sickness, promotions, punishments,
mutations, and the disbanding of the class of 1836, which took away several under-officers,
gradually reduced the class, so that in July only a little over fifty were left. This falling
off greatly troubled Professor Chevé, especially when the army at Lyons went into camp and
left him with only twenty-eight pupils. This reduction of the class could not have been foreseen
or prevented. M. Chevé could not be held responsible for the fulfilment of his promise, except
to eight-tenths of those that remained.

Two months after the opening of the course M. Chevé printed at his own expense a collection
of one hundred and forty pieces of music from the best composers, and gave a copy to each of
his pupils, that they might read from the printed page instead of the blackboard. Three months
after the opening of the course General Lascours visited the gymnasium and was present during
one of the lessons. He was struck, as were all the visitors on that occasion, by the progress
obtained. The pupils were already far advanced in intonation and in time: they read easily
in all the keys, and sung pieces together with great spirit and correctness.

On April 25, 1843, the general returned, accompanied by Madame Lascours and all the officers
of his staff. The following was the programme of the occasion: (1) A quartette from Webbe;
(2) A Languedoc air in three parts, from Desrues; (3) A trio from the opera of [OE]dipus in
Colonna, by Sacchini; (4) Singing at sight intervals of all kinds, major and minor; (5) Singing
at sight in eight different keys; (6) Two rounds in three voices from Siller; (7) A quartette
from the Clemenza di Tito of Mozart; (8) A quartette from the Iphigenia of Gluck; (9) A trio
from the Corysander, or the Magic Rose of Berton; (10) Exercise upon the tonic in all the keys,
major and minor; (11) Exercise in naming notes vocalized; (12) Singing at sight a trio from
the Magic Flute of Mozart; (13) Ave Regina, by Choron--three voices; (14) The Gondolier, a
round in three parts, by Desrues; (15) A quartette from the Magic Flute; (16) Chorus from the
Tancredi of Rossini; (17) The "Prayer" from Joseph, by Méhul.

This is certainly a remarkable programme to be filled by illiterate soldiers with only six
months' training. "It would be difficult," says the official report, "to paint the astonishment
of the spectators upon this occasion. The confidence and readiness with which these soldier-students
of music sang at sight the most difficult intonations, major and minor, the facility with which
they read in all the keys, and, finally, the certainty and spontaneity with which they all,
without exception, recognized and named various sounds vocalized, showed clearly that they
possessed a very superior knowledge of intonation. All the pieces which they sung were rendered
with irreproachable correctness, though the professor did not beat the time, except through
the first bar to indicate the movement.

"With the consent of General Lascours, all the teachers and professors in the city, including
the members of the Royal College, were on one occasion admitted to a private rehearsal of M.
Chevé's class. The result was the same--admiration and astonishment. The professor received
on all sides well-merited praise for a success gained in so short a time and with such unfavorable
conditions.

"These soldiers have at this moment (September 1, 1843) reached a degree of power in intonation
and in reading music at sight which is fairly wonderful. They can sing together at sight any
new piece in three or four parts, the music being written, after the new method, in figures.
If the piece be written in the ordinary musical character, no matter what the key, they can
also sing it at sight together after they have together sung each part by itself. All the members
of the class understand thoroughly the theory of music, and are able to write from dictation
a vocalized air never heard before, no matter what the modulations may be.

"Such are the results obtained by Professor Chevé from a mass of men taken at hazard and against
their will. The experiment to-day has had eleven months of duration, seventeen or eighteen
lessons being given every month. The pupils have never studied at all between the lessons,
and those who remain at the present time have lost many lessons from punishments, illness,
leave of absence, etc.

"As to the method pursued by M. Chevé, it is as follows: In theory he demonstrates de facto
the inequality of major and minor seconds, and from this he deduces the theory of the gamut.
Here he follows in the footsteps of his master, Galin. The theory of time he takes from the
same source. In practice, he employs the Arabic figures for the musical notes, as proposed
by J. J. Rousseau and modified by Galin, using a series of exercises created by Madame Chevé.
To these exercises especially does M. Chevé owe his ability to make his pupils masters of intonation
in an incredibly short time. He teaches time by itself, using a language of durations invented
by the father of Madame Chevé, M. Aimé Paris, and tables of exercises in time made by Madame
Chevé. Transposition is also taught separately, and never does M. Chevé require his pupils
to execute two things simultaneously until they understand perfectly how to do them separately.

"In this way M. Chevé leads his pupils through every step of the theory of music until they
are able to read in the ordinary notation every kind of music, and to execute during any piece
all the possible changes of mode or key."

The report--which is duly signed by the officers having charge of the gymnasium--ends with
the expression of their "profound conviction that the method of teaching music employed by
Professor Chevé is faultless, if it may be judged by its practical results."

There is a very common impression, in this country at least, that the best new method of writing
music has been tried and abandoned, weighed in the balance and found wanting. This is far from
the fact. It is doubtful if there is one person in a hundred in this country who ever heard
even the name of Galin or Chevé. Some twenty years ago there was a little interest excited
in a new method of musical notation. A class was formed in Lowell, Massachusetts, and a "singing-book"
was used there with the notes written with numerals on the staff instead of the usual characters.
But it could not have been the Chevé method that the Lowell professor used, for he employed
no new system of teaching time--a prime characteristic of that method.

Those who examine the subject fairly will be compelled to take the position held by Galin,
Chevé and their school, that a new method of writing music is imperatively needed, because
that now in use lacks the essential elements of a scientific system: it is neither simple,
clear nor concise. There are certain elementary principles which must be observed in the exposition
of any science, and especially in that of music, which is addressed to all classes of intelligence.
Among these principles are the following, as stated by M. Chevé: 1st. Every idea should be
presented to the mind by a clear and precise symbol. 2d. The same idea should always be presented
by the same sign: the same sign should always represent the same idea. 3d. Elementary textbooks
or methods should never present two difficulties to the mind at the same time; and such textbooks
or methods should be an assemblage of means adapted to aid ordinary intelligences to gain the
object proposed. 4th. The memory should never be drawn upon except where reasoning is impossible.

Let us test the exposition of the ordinary musical notation, and also that of the school of
Galin, by these principles and compare the results.

First. Is every idea presented by a clear and precise symbol?

In the ordinary method, certainly not. The musical sounds or notes are represented by elliptical
curves with or without stems; by spots or dots with plain stems, or with stems having from
one to four appendages, or with these appendages united, forming bars across the stems. These
curves and dots are placed on the five parallel lines of a staff, as it is called, or between
the lines of this staff, or on or between added or "ledger" lines above and below the staff.
Certainly, these cannot be called precise symbols, especially when we reflect that any one
of them placed upon any given line or space may represent successively do, ré, mi, fa, sol,
la, si, or the flats or sharps of these notes. The notes, indeed, have no names, being all
alike for the various notes; but names are given to the lines and spaces of the staff; and,
alas! the names of these lines and spaces change continually with the change of key or pitch.
For example: if we commence a scale with C, our do will be on the first added line below the
staff, and its octave, do, on the third space counting from the lowest. If we commence a scale
with G, our do will be on the second line from the bottom, and the octave on the first space
above the staff; and so on for all the other scales except those which commence a semitone
below or above. For example: the scales of the key of G and of G flat would be placed exactly
the same upon the staff, though the signature of G would be one sharp upon the staff at the
beginning, and that of G flat would be six flats. The same may be said of the keys of D and
D flat, F and F sharp, etc.

Again: the scales of the keys of G flat and of F sharp are the same--are played on precisely
the same keys of the organ or piano--yet they are placed on different lines and spaces of the
staff, and the signature of the first is six flats, and of the second six sharps.

Think of the disheartened state of the victim of this notation when he has learned to read
comfortably in one key, and then, taking up a piece of music written in another key, finds
that he has all the lines and spaces to relearn! The wonder is that he does not lose his wits
altogether.

Compare this maze of notes and lines and spaces, for ever changing like a will-o'-the wisp,
with the following:

  Low Octave.         Middle Octave.         High Octave.

                                             =.......=
  =1234567=             =1234567=            =1234567=
  =.......=

