To William Gordon, Viscount Kenmure and Baron of Lochinvar, was entrusted, in a commission
from the Earl of Mar, the command of the insurgents in the south of Scotland. This choice of
a General displayed the usual want of discernment which characterized the leaders of the Rebellion
of 1715. Grave, and as a contemporary describes him, "full aged;" of extraordinary knowledge
in public affairs, but a total stranger to all military matters; calm, but slow in judgment;
of unsullied integrity,--endowed, in short, with qualities truly respectable, but devoid of
energy, boldness, and address, yet wanting not personal courage, there could scarcely have
been found a more excellent man, nor a more feeble commander. At the head of a troop of gentlemen,
full of ardour in the cause, the plain dress and homely manners of Lord Kenmure seemed inappropriate
to the conspicuous station which he held; for the exercise of his functions as commander was
attended by some circumstances which required a great combination of worldly knowledge with
singleness of purpose.

George Seaton, the fifth Earl of Wintoun, was another of those noblemen who raised a troop
of horse, and engaged, from the very first commencement of the rebellion, in its turmoils.
The family of Seaton, of which the Earl of Wintoun was the last in the direct line, "affords
in its general characteristics," says a celebrated Scottish genealogist, "the best specimen
of our ancient nobility. They seem to have been the first to have introduced the refined arts,
and an improved state of architecture in Scotland. They were consistent in their principles,
and, upon the whole, as remarkable for their deportment and baronial respectability, as for
their descent and noble alliances."[4]

In consequence of so many great families having sprung from the Seatons, they were styled "Magnæ
Nobilitatis Domini;" and their antiquity was as remarkable as their alliances, the male representation
of the family, and the right to the honours which they bore, having been transmitted to the
present Earl of Eglintoun, through an unbroken descent of seven centuries and a half.

The loyalty of the Seatons was untainted. The first Earl of Wintoun had adopted as one of his
mottoes, "Intaminatis fulget honoribus," and the sense of those words was fully borne out by
the testimony of time. The Seatoun Charter Chest contained, as one of their race remarked,
no remission of any offence against Government, a fact which could not be affirmed of any other
Scottish family of note. But this brave and ancient house had signal reason for remaining hitherto
devoted to the monarchs of the Scottish throne.

Four times had the Seatons been allied with royalty: two instances were remarkable. George
Seatoun, second Earl of Huntly, married the Princess Annabella, daughter of James the First,
and from that union numerous descendants of Scottish nobility exist to this day: and George,
the third Lord Seaton, again allied his house with that of Stuart, by marrying the Lady Margaret
Stuart, daughter of the Earl of Buchan, and granddaughter of Robert the Second. In consequence
of these several intermarriages, it was proverbially said of the house of Seaton, "the family
is come of princes, and reciprocally princes are come of the family." And these bonds of relationship
were cemented by services performed and honours conferred. The devotion of the Seatons to Mary,
Queen of Scots, has been immortalised by the pen of Sir Walter Scott. George, the seventh Lord
Seaton, attended on that unhappy Princess in some of the most brilliant scenes of her eventful
life, and clung to her in every vicissitude of her fate. He, as Ambassador to France, negotiated
her marriage with the Dauphin, and was present at the celebration of the nuptials.