It is superfluous to say that the spectator must invent for himself the allegory which he may
choose to see embodied in this stony trio. It is not enough to be told the words of the charade,--Julian,
Night, Morning. One can never spell out the meaning by putting together the group with the
aid of such a key. Night is Night, obviously, because she is asleep. For an equally profound
reason, Day is Day, because he is not asleep; and both, looked at in this vulgar light, are
creations as imaginative as Simon Snug, with his lantern, representing moonshine. If the figures
should arise and walk across the chapel, changing places with the couple opposite them, as
if in a sepulchral quadrille, would the allegory become more intelligible? Could not Day or
Night move from Julian's monument, and take up the same position at Lorenzo's tomb, or "Ninny's
tomb," or any other tomb? Was Lorenzo any more to Aurora than Julian, that she should weep
for him only?

Therefore one must invent for one's self the fable of those immortal groups. Each spectator
must pluck out, unaided, the heart of their mystery. Those matchless colossal forms, which
the foolish chroniclers of the time have baptized Night and Morning, speak an unknown language
to the crowd. They are mute as Sphinx to souls which cannot supply the music and the poetry
which fell from their marble lips upon the ear of him who created them.

X.

PALAZZO RICCARDI.

The ancient residence of Cosmo Vecchio and his successors is a magnificent example of that
vast and terrible architecture peculiar to Florence. This has always been a city, not of streets,
but of fortresses. Each block is one house, but a house of the size of a citadel; while the
corridors and apartments are like casemates and bastions, so gloomy and savage is their expression.
Ancient Florence, the city of the twelfth and beginning of the thirteenth centuries, the Florence
of the nobles, the Florence of the Ghibellines, the Florence in which nearly every house was
a castle, with frowning towers hundreds of feet high, machicolated battlements, donjon keeps,
oubliettes, and all other appurtenances of a feudal stronghold, exists no longer. With the
expulsion of the imperial faction, and the advent of the municipal Guelphs,--that proudest,
boldest, most successful, and most unreasonable bourgeoisie which ever assumed organized life,--the
nobles were curtailed of all their privileges. Their city castles, too, were shorn of their
towers, which were limited to just so many ells, cloth measure, by the haughty shopkeepers
who had displaced the grandees. The first third of the thirteenth century--the epoch of the
memorable Buondelmonti street fight which lasted thirty years--was the period in which this
dreadful architecture was fixed upon Florence. Then was the time in which the chains, fastened
in those huge rings which still dangle from the grim house-fronts, were stretched across the
street; thus enclosing and fettering a compact mass of combatants in an iron embrace, while
from the rare and narrow murder-windows in the walls, and from the beetling roofs, descended
the hail of iron and stone and scalding pitch and red-hot coals to refresh the struggling throng
below.

After this epoch, and with the expiration of the imperial house of the Hohenstaufen, the nobles
here, as in Switzerland, sought to popularize themselves, to become municipal.

  Der Adel steigt von seinen alten Burgen,
  Und schwört den Städten seinen Bürger-Eid,

said the prophetic old Attinghausen, in his dying moments. The change was even more extraordinary
in Florence. The expulsion of some of the patrician families was absolute. Others were allowed
to participate with the plebeians in the struggle for civic honors, and for the wealth earned
in commerce, manufactures, and handicraft. It became a severe and not uncommon punishment to
degrade offending individuals or families into the ranks of nobility, and thus deprive them
of their civil rights. Hundreds of low-born persons have, in a single day, been declared noble,
and thus disfranchised. And the example of Florence was often followed by other cities.

The result was twofold upon the aristocracy. Those who municipalized themselves became more
enlightened, more lettered, more refined, and, at the same time, less chivalrous and less martial
than their ancestors. The characters of buccaneer, land-pirate, knight-errant could not be
conveniently united with those of banker, exchange broker, dealer in dry goods, and general
commission agents.

The consequence was that the fighting business became a specialty, and fell into the hands
of private companies. Florence, like Venice, and other Italian republics, jobbed her wars.
The work was done by the Hawkwoods, the Sforzas, the Bracciones, and other chiefs of the celebrated
free companies, black bands, lance societies, who understood no other profession, but who were
as accomplished in the arts of their own guild as were any of the five major and seven minor
crafts into which the Florentine burgesses were divided.

This proved a bad thing for the liberties of Florence in the end. The chieftains of these military
clubs, usually from the lowest ranks, with no capacity but for bloodshed, and no revenue but
rapine, often ended their career by obtaining the seigniory of some petty republic, a small
town, or a handful of hamlets, whose liberty they crushed with their own iron, and with the
gold obtained, in exchange for their blood, from the city bankers. In the course of time such
seigniories often rolled together, and assumed a menacing shape to all who valued municipal
liberty. Sforza--whose peasant father threw his axe into a tree, resolving, if it fell, to
join, as a common soldier, the roving band which had just invited him; if it adhered to the
wood, to remain at home a laboring hind--becomes Duke of Milan, and is encouraged in his usurpation
by Cosmo Vecchio, who still gives himself the airs of first-citizen of Florence.

The serpent, the well-known cognizance of the Visconti, had already coiled itself around all
those fair and clustering cities which were once the Lombard republics, and had poisoned their
vigorous life. The Ezzelinos, Carraras, Gonzagas, Scalas, had crushed the spirit of liberty
in the neighborhood of Venice. All this had been accomplished by means of mercenary adventurers,
guided only by the love of plunder; while those two luxurious and stately republics--the one
an oligarchy, the other a democracy--looked on from their marble palaces, enjoying the refreshing
bloodshowers in which their own golden harvests were so rapidly ripening.

Meanwhile a gigantic despotism was maturing, which was eventually to crush the power, glory,
wealth, and freedom of Italy.

This palazzo of Cosmo the Elder is a good type of Florentine architecture at its ultimate epoch,
just as Cosmo himself was the largest expression of the Florentine citizen in the last and
over-ripe stage.

The Medici family, unheard of in the thirteenth century, obscure and plebeian in the middle
of the fourteenth, and wealthy bankers and leaders of the democratic party at its close, culminated
in the early part of the fifteenth in the person of Cosmo. The Pater Patriae,--so called, because,
having at last absorbed all the authority, he could afford to affect some of the benignity
of a parent, and to treat his fellow-citizens, not as men, but as little children,--the Father
of his Country had acquired, by means of his great fortune and large financial connections,
an immense control over the destinies of Florence and Italy. But he was still a private citizen
in externals. There was, at least, elevation of taste, refinement of sentiment in Cosmo's conception
of a great citizen. His habits of life were elegant, but frugal. He built churches, palaces,
villas. He employed all the great architects of the age. He adorned these edifices with masterpieces
from the pencils and chisels of the wonderful Quattrocentisti, whose productions alone would
have given Florence an immortal name in Art history. Yet he preserved a perfect simplicity
of equipage and apparel. In this regard, faithful to the traditions of the republic, which
his family had really changed from a democracy to a ploutarchy, he had the good taste to scorn
the vulgar pomp of kings,--"the horses led, and grooms besmeared with gold,"--all the theatrical
paraphernalia and plebeian tinsel "which dazzle the crowd and set them all agape"; but his
expenditures were those of an intellectual and accomplished oligarch. He was worthy, in many
respects, to be the chief of those haughty merchants and manufacturers, who wielded more power,
through the length of their purses and the cultivation of their brains, than did all the contemporaneous
and illiterate barons of the rest of Christendom, by dint of castle-storming and cattle-stealing.

In an age when other nobles were proud of being unable to write their own names, or to read
them when others wrote them, the great princes and citizens of Florence protected and cultivated
art, science, and letters. Every citizen received a liberal education. Poets and philosophers
sat in the councils of the republic. Philosophy, metaphysics, and the restoration of ancient
learning occupied the minds and diminished the revenues of its greater and inferior burghers.
In this respect, the Medici, and their abetters of the fifteenth century, discharged a portion
of the debt which they had incurred to humanity. They robbed Italy of her freedom, but they
gave her back the philosophy of Plato. They reduced the generality of Florentine citizens,
who were once omnipotent, to a nullity; but they had at least, the sense to cherish Donatello
and Ghiberti, Brunelleschi and Gozzoli, Ficino and Politian.

It is singular, too, with what comparatively small means the Medici were enabled to do such
great things. Cosmo, unquestionably the greatest and most successful citizen that ever lived,--for
he almost rivalled Pericles in position, if not in talent, while he surpassed him in good fortune,--was,
during his lifetime, the virtual sovereign of the most enlightened and wealthy and powerful
republic that had existed in modern times. He built the church of San Marco, the church of
San Lorenzo, the cloister of San Verdiano. On the hill of Fiesole he erected a church and a
convent. At Jerusalem he built a church and a hospital for pilgrims. All this was for religion,
the republic, and the world. For himself he constructed four splendid villas, at Careggi, Fiesole,
Caffaggiolo, and Trebbio, and in the city the magnificent palace in the Via Larga, now called
the Riccardi.

In thirty-seven years, from 1434 to 1471, he and his successors expended eight millions of
francs (663,755 gold florins) in buildings and charities,--a sum which may be represented by
as many, or, as some would reckon, twice as many, dollars at the present day. Nevertheless,
the income of Cosmo was never more than 600,000 francs, (50,000 gold florins,) while his fortune
was never thought to exceed three millions of francs, or six hundred thousand dollars. Being
invested in commerce, his property yielded, and ought to have yielded, an income of twenty
per cent. Nevertheless, an inventory made in 1469 showed, that, after twenty-nine years, he
left to his son Pietro a fortune but just about equal in amount to that which he had himself
received from his father.

With six hundred thousand dollars for his whole capital, then, Cosmo was able to play his magnificent
part in the world's history; while the Duke of Milan, son of the peasant Sforza, sometimes
expended more than that sum in a single year. So much difference was there between the position
and requirements of an educated and opulent first-citizen, and a low-born military parvenu,
whom, however, Cosmo was most earnest to encourage and to strengthen in his designs against
the liberties of Lombardy.

This Riccardi palace, as Cosmo observed after his poor son Peter had become bed-ridden with
the gout, was a marvellously large mansion for so small a family as one old man and one cripple.
It is chiefly interesting, now, for the frescos with which Benozzo Gozzoli has adorned the
chapel. The same cause which has preserved these beautiful paintings so fresh, four centuries
long, has unfortunately always prevented their being seen to any advantage. The absence of
light, which has kept the colors from fading, is most provoking, when one wishes to admire
the works of a great master, whose productions are so rare.

Gozzoli, who lived and worked through the middle of the fifteenth century, is chiefly known
by his large and graceful compositions in the Pisan Campo Santo. These masterpieces are fast
crumbling into mildewed rubbish. He had as much vigor and audacity as Ghirlandaio, with more
grace and freshness of invention. He has, however, nothing of his dramatic power. His genius
is rather idyllic and romantic. Although some of the figures in these Medici palace frescos
are thought to be family portraits, still they hardly seem very lifelike. The subjects selected
are a Nativity, and an Adoration of the Magi. In the neighborhood of the window is a choir
of angels singing Hosanna, full of freshness and vernal grace. The long procession of kings
riding to pay their homage, "with tedious pomp and rich retinue long," has given the artist
an opportunity of exhibiting more power in perspective and fore-shortening than one could expect
at that epoch. There are mules and horses, caparisoned and bedizened; some led by grinning
blackamoors, others ridden by showy kings, effulgent in brocade, glittering spurs, and gleaming
cuirasses. Here are horsemen travelling straight towards the spectator,--there, a group, in
an exactly opposite direction, is forcing its way into the picture,--while hunters with hound
and horn are pursuing the stag on the neighboring hills, and idle spectators stand around,
gaping and dazzled; all drawn with a free and accurate pencil, and colored with much brilliancy;--a
triumphant and masterly composition, hidden in a dark corner of what has now become a great
dusty building, filled with public offices.

XI.

FIESOLE.

Here sits on her hill the weird old Etrurian nurse of Florence, withered, superannuated, feeble,
warming her palsied limbs in the sun, and looking vacantly down upon the beautiful child whose
cradle she rocked. Fiesole is perhaps the oldest Italian city. The inhabitants of middle and
lower Italy were Pelasgians by origin, like the earlier races of Greece. The Etrurians were
an aboriginal stock,--that is to say, as far as anything can be definitely stated regarding
their original establishment in the peninsula; for they, too, doubtless came, at some remote
epoch, from beyond the Altai mountains.

In their arts they seem to have been original,--at least, until at a later period they began
to imitate the culture of Greece. They were the only ancient Italian people who had the art-capacity;
and they supplied the wants of royal Rome, just as Greece afterwards supplied the republic
and the empire with the far more elevated creations of her plastic genius.

The great works undertaken by the Tarquins, if there ever were Tarquins, were in the hands
of Etrurian architects and sculptors. The admirable system of subterranean drainage in Rome,
by which the swampy hollows among the seven hills were converted into stately streets, and
the stupendous cloaca maxima, the buried arches of which have sustained for more than two thousand
years, without flinching, the weight of superincumbent Rome, were Etrurian performances, commenced
six centuries before Christ.

It would appear that this people had rather a tendency to the useful, than to the beautiful.
Unable to assimilate the elements of beauty and grace furnished by more genial races, this
mystic and vanished nation was rather prone to the stupendously and minutely practical, than
devoted to the beautiful for its own sake.

At Fiesole, the vast Cyclopean walls, still fixed and firm as the everlasting hills, in their
parallelopipedal layers, attest the grandeur of the ancient city. Here are walls built, probably,
before the foundation of Rome, and yet steadfast as the Apennines. There are also a broken
ring or two of an amphitheatre; for the Etrurians preceded and instructed the Romans in gladiatorial
shows. It is suggestive to seat one's self upon these solid granite seats, where twenty-five
hundred years ago some grave Etrurian citizen, wrapped in his mantle of Tyrrhenian purple,
his straight-nosed wife at his side, with serpent bracelet and enamelled brooch, and a hopeful
family clustering playfully at their knees, looked placidly on, while slaves were baiting and
butchering each other in the arena below.

The Duomo is an edifice of the Romanesque period, and contains some masterpieces by Mino da
Fiesole. On a fine day, however, the church is too dismal, and the scene outside too glowing
and golden, to permit any compromise between nature and Mino. The view from the Franciscan
convent upon the brow of the hill, site of the ancient acropolis, is on the whole the very
best which can be obtained of Florence and the Val d' Arno. All the verdurous, gently rolling
hills which are heaped about Firenze la bella are visible at once. There, stretched languidly
upon those piles of velvet cushions, reposes the luxurious, jewelled, tiara-crowned city, like
Cleopatra on her couch. Nothing, save an Oriental or Italian city on the sea-coast, can present
a more beautiful picture. The hills are tossed about so softly, the sunshine comes down in
its golden shower so voluptuously, the yellow Arno moves along its channel so noiselessly,
the chains of villages, villas, convents, and palaces are strung together with such a profuse
and careless grace, wreathing themselves from hill to hill, and around every coigne of vantage,
the forests of olive and the festoons of vine are so poetical and suggestive, that we wonder
not that civilized man has found this an attractive abode for twenty-five centuries.

Florence is stone dead. 'Tis but a polished tortoise-shell, of which the living inhabitant
has long since crumbled to dust; but it still gleams in the sun with wondrous radiance.

Just at your feet, as you stand on the convent terrace, is the Villa Mozzi, where, not long
ago, were found buried jars of Roman coins of the republican era, hidden there by Catiline,
at the epoch of his memorable conspiracy. Upon the same spot was the favorite residence of
Lorenzo Magnifico; concerning whose probable ponderings, as he sat upon his terrace, with his
legs dangling over Florence, much may be learned from the guide-book of the immortal Murray,
so that he who runs may read and philosophize.

Looking at Florence from the hill-top, one is more impressed than ever with the appropriateness
of its name. The City of Flowers is itself a flower, and, as you gaze upon it from a height,
you see how it opens from its calyx. The many bright villages, gay gardens, palaces, and convents
which encircle the city, are not to be regarded separately, but as one whole. The germ and
heart of Florence, the compressed and half hidden Piazza, with its dome, campanile, and long,
slender towers, shooting forth like the stamens and pistils, is closely folded and sombre,
while the vast and beautiful corolla spreads its brilliant and fragrant circumference, petal
upon petal, for miles and miles around.

THE BATTLE OF LEPANTO.

It was two hours before dawn on Sunday, the memorable seventh of October, 1571, when the fleet
weighed anchor. The wind had become lighter, but it was still contrary, and the galleys were
indebted for their progress much more to their oars than to their sails. By sunrise they were
abreast of the Curzolares, a cluster of huge rocks, or rocky islets, which, on the north, defends
the entrance of the Gulf of Lepanto. The fleet moved laboriously along, while every eye was
strained to catch the first glimpse of the hostile navy. At length the watch from the foretop
of the Real called out, "A sail!" and soon after announced that the whole Ottoman fleet was
in sight. Several others, climbing up the rigging, confirmed his report; and in a few moments
more word was sent to the same effect by Andrew Doria, who commanded on the right. There was
no longer any doubt; and Don John, ordering his pendant to be displayed at the mizzen-peak,
unfurled the great standard of the League, given by the pope, and directed a gun to be fired,
the signal for battle. The report, as it ran along the rocky shores, fell cheerily on the ears
of the confederates, who, raising their eyes towards the consecrated banner, filled the air
with their shouts.

The principal captains now came on board the Real to receive the last orders of the commander-in-chief.
Even at this late hour there were some who ventured to intimate their doubts of the expediency
of engaging the enemy in a position where he had a decided advantage. But Don John cut short
the discussion. "Gentlemen," he said, "this is the time for combat, not for counsel." He then
continued the dispositions he was making for the assault.

He had already given to each commander of a galley written instructions as to the manner in
which the line of battle was to be formed, in case of meeting the enemy. The armada was now
formed in that order. It extended on a front of three miles. Far on the right a squadron of
sixty-four galleys was commanded by the Genoese, Andrew Doria, a name of terror to the Moslems.
The centre, or battle, as it was called, consisting of sixty-three galleys, was led by John
of Austria, who was supported on the one side by Colonna, the captain-general of the pope,
and on the other by the Venetian captain-general, Veniero. Immediately in the rear was the
galley of the Comendador Requesens, who still remained near the person of his former pupil;
though a difference which arose between them on the voyage, fortunately now healed, showed
that the young commander-in-chief was wholly independent of his teacher in the art of war.
The left wing was commanded by the noble Venetian, Barberigo, whose vessels stretched along
the Aetolian shore, which, to prevent his being turned by the enemy, he approached as near
as, in his ignorance of the coast, he dared to venture. Finally, the reserve, consisting of
thirty-five galleys, was given to the brave Marquis of Santa Cruz, with directions to act on
any part where he thought his presence most needed. The smaller craft, some of which had now
arrived, seem to have taken little part in the action, which was thus left to the galleys.

Each commander was to occupy so much space with his galley as to allow room for manoeuvring
it to advantage, and yet not enough to enable the enemy to break the line. He was directed
to single out his adversary, to close at once with him, and board as soon as possible. The
beaks of the galleys were pronounced to be a hindrance rather than a help in action. They were
rarely strong enough to resist a shock from the enemy; and they much interfered with the working
and firing of the guns. Don John had the beak of his vessel cut away; and the example was speedily
followed throughout the fleet, and, as it is said, with eminently good effect. It may seem
strange that this discovery should have been reserved for the crisis of a battle.

When the officers had received their last instructions, they returned to their respective vessels;
and Don John, going on board of a light frigate, passed rapidly through that part of the armada
lying on his right, while he commanded Requesens to do the same with the vessels on his left.
His object was to feel the temper of his men, and rouse their mettle by a few words of encouragement.
The Venetians he reminded of their recent injuries. The hour for vengeance, he told them, had
arrived. To the Spaniards, and other confederates, he said, "You have come to fight the battle
of the Cross,--to conquer or die. But whether you die or conquer, do your duty this day, and
you will secure a glorious immortality." His words were received with a burst of enthusiasm
which went to the heart of the commander, and assured him that he could rely on his men in
the hour of trial. On his return to his vessel, he saw Veniero on his quarter-deck, and they
exchanged salutations in as friendly a manner as if no difference had existed between them.
At a time like this, both these brave men were willing to forget all personal animosity, in
a common feeling of devotion to the great cause in which they were engaged.

The Ottoman fleet came on slowly and with difficulty. For, strange to say, the wind, which
had hitherto been adverse to the Christians, after lulling for a time, suddenly shifted to
the opposite quarter, and blew in the face of the enemy. As the day advanced, moreover, the
sun, which had shone in the eyes of the confederates, gradually shot its rays into those of
the Moslems. Both circumstances were of good omen to the Christians, and the first was regarded
as nothing short of a direct interposition of Heaven. Thus ploughing its way along, the Turkish
armament, as it came nearer into view, showed itself in greater strength than had been anticipated
by the allies. It consisted of nearly two hundred and fifty royal galleys, most of them of
the largest class, besides a number of smaller vessels in the rear, which, like those of the
allies, appear scarcely to have come into action. The men on board, including those of every
description, were computed at not less than a hundred and twenty thousand. The galleys spread
out, as usual with the Turks, in the form of a regular half-moon, covering a wider extent of
surface than the combined fleets, which they somewhat exceeded in numbers. They presented,
indeed, as they drew nearer, a magnificent array, with their gilded and gaudily painted prows,
and their myriads of pennons and streamers fluttering gayly in the breeze, while the rays of
the morning sun glanced on the polished scymitars of Damascus, and on the superb aigrettes
of jewels which sparkled in the turbans of the Ottoman chiefs.

In the centre of the extended line, and directly opposite to the station occupied by the captain-general
of the League, was the huge galley of Ali Pasha. The right of the armada was commanded by Mehemet
Siroco, viceroy of Egypt, a circumspect as well as courageous leader; the left by Uluch Ali,
dey of Algiers, the redoubtable corsair of the Mediterranean. Ali Pasha had experienced a similar
difficulty with Don John, as several of his officers had strongly urged the inexpediency of
engaging so formidable an armament as that of the allies. But Ali, like his rival, was young
and ambitious. He had been sent by his master to fight the enemy; and no remonstrances, not
even those of Mehemet Siroco, for whom he had great respect, could turn him from his purpose.

He had, moreover, received intelligence that the allied fleet was much inferior in strength
to what it proved. In this error he was fortified by the first appearance of the Christians;
for the extremity of their left wing, commanded by Barberigo, stretching behind the Aetolian
shore, was hidden from his view. As he drew nearer, and saw the whole extent of the Christian
lines, it is said his countenance fell. If so, he still did not abate one jot of his resolution.
He spoke to those around him with the same confidence as before of the result of the battle.
He urged his rowers to strain every effort. Ali was a man of more humanity than often belonged
to his nation. His galley-slaves were all, or nearly all, Christian captives; and he addressed
them in this neat and pithy manner: "If your countrymen win this day, Allah give you the benefit
of it! Yet if I win it, you shall have your freedom. If you feel that I do well by you, do
then the like by me."

As the Turkish admiral drew nearer, he made a change in his order of battle by separating his
wings farther from his centre, thus conforming to the dispositions of the allies. Before he
had come within cannon-shot, he fired a gun by way of challenge to his enemy. It was answered
by another from the galley of John of Austria. A second gun discharged by Ali was as promptly
replied to by the Christian commander. The distance between the two fleets was now rapidly
diminishing. At this solemn hour a death-like silence reigned throughout the armament of the
confederates. Men seemed to hold their breath, as if absorbed in the expectation of some great
catastrophe. The day was magnificent. A light breeze, still adverse to the Turks, played on
the waters, somewhat fretted by contrary winds. It was nearly noon; and as the sun, mounting
through a cloudless sky, rose to the zenith, he seemed to pause, as if to look down on the
beautiful scene, where the multitude of galleys, moving over the water, showed like a holiday
spectacle rather than a preparation for mortal combat.

The illusion was soon dispelled by the fierce yells which rose on the air from the Turkish
armada. It was the customary war-cry with which the Moslems entered into battle. Very different
was the scene on board of the Christian galleys. Don John might be there seen, armed cap-a-pie,
standing on the prow of the Real, anxiously awaiting the coming conflict. In this conspicuous
position, kneeling down, he raised his eyes to heaven, and humbly prayed that the Almighty
would be with his people on that day. His example was speedily followed by the whole fleet.
Officers and men, all falling on their knees, and turning their eyes to the consecrated banner
which floated from the Real, put up a petition like that of their commander. They then received
absolution from the priests, of whom there were some in each vessel; and each man, as he rose
to his feet, gathered new strength from the assurance that the Lord of Hosts would fight on
his side.

When the foremost vessels of the Turks had come within cannon-shot, they opened a fire on the
Christians. The firing soon ran along the whole of the Turkish line, and was kept up without
interruption as it advanced. Don John gave orders for trumpet and atabal to sound the signal
for action; and a simultaneous discharge followed from such of the guns in the combined fleet
as could bear on the enemy. Don John had caused the galeazzas to be towed some half a mile
ahead of the fleet, where they might intercept the advance of the Turks. As the latter came
abreast of them, the huge galleys delivered their broadsides right and left, and their heavy
ordnance produced a startling effect. Ali Pasha gave orders for his galleys to open on either
side, and pass without engaging these monsters of the deep, of which he had had no experience.
Even so their heavy guns did considerable damage to the nearest vessels, and created some confusion
in the pasha's line of battle. They were, however, but unwieldy craft, and, having accomplished
their object, seem to have taken no further part in the combat. The action began on the left
wing of the allies, which Mehemet Siroco was desirous of turning. This had been anticipated
by Barberigo, the Venetian admiral, who commanded in that quarter. To prevent it, as we have
seen, he lay with his vessels as near the coast as he dared. Siroco, better acquainted with
the soundings, saw there was space enough for him to pass, and darting by with all the speed
that oars and wind could give him, he succeeded in doubling on his enemy. Thus placed between
two fires, the extreme of the Christian left fought at terrible disadvantage. No less than
eight galleys went to the bottom. Several more were captured. The brave Barberigo, throwing
himself into the heat of the fight, without availing himself of his defensive armor, was pierced
in the eye by an arrow, and though reluctant to leave the glory of the field to another, was
borne to his cabin. The combat still continued with unabated fury on the part of the Venetians.
They fought like men who felt that the war was theirs, and who were animated not only by the
thirst for glory, but for revenge.

Far on the Christian right, a manoeuvre similar to that so successfully executed by Siroco
was attempted by Uluch Ali, the viceroy of Algiers. Profiting by his superiority of numbers,
he endeavored to turn the right wing of the confederates. It was in this quarter that Andrew
Doria commanded. He also had foreseen this movement of his enemy, and he succeeded in foiling
it. It was a trial of skill between the two most accomplished seamen in the Mediterranean.
Doria extended his line so far to the right, indeed, to prevent being surrounded, that Don
John was obliged to remind him that he left the centre much too exposed. His dispositions were
so far unfortunate for himself that his own line was thus weakened and afforded some vulnerable
points to his assailant. These were soon detected by the eagle eye of Uluch Ali; and like the
king of birds swooping on his prey, he fell on some galleys separated by a considerable interval
from their companions, and, sinking more than one, carried off the great Capitana of Malta
in triumph as his prize.

While the combat thus opened disastrously to the allies both on the right and on the left,
in the centre they may be said to have fought with doubtful fortune. Don John had led his division
gallantly forward. But the object on which he was intent was an encounter with Ali Pasha, the
foe most worthy of his sword. The Turkish commander had the same combat no less at heart. The
galleys of both were easily recognized, not only from their position, but from their superior
size and richer decoration. The one, moreover, displayed the holy banner of the League; the
other, the great Ottoman standard. This, like the ancient standard of the caliphs, was held
sacred in its character. It was covered with texts from the Koran, emblazoned in letters of
gold, with the name of Allah inscribed upon it no less than twenty-eight thousand nine hundred
times. It was the banner of the Sultan, having passed from father to son since the foundation
of the imperial dynasty, and was never seen in the field unless the Grand-Seignior or his lieutenant
was there in person.

