The first hymn to Saint Theresa, to which The Flaming Heart is a kind of appendix, was written
when Crashaw was still an Anglican (for which he did not fail, later, to make a characteristic
and very pretty, though quite unnecessary, apology). It has no passage quite up to the Invocation--Epiphonema,
to give it the technical term--of the later poem. But it is, on the contrary, good almost throughout,
and is, for uniform exaltation, far the best of Crashaw's poems. Yet such uniform exaltation
must be seldom sought in him. It is in his little bursts, such as that in the stanza beginning,
"O mother turtle dove," that his charm consists. Often, as in verse after verse of The Weeper,
it has an unearthly delicacy and witchery which only Blake, in a few snatches, has ever equalled;
while at other times the poet seems to invent, in the most casual and unthinking fashion, new
metrical effects and new jewelries of diction which the greatest lyric poets since--Coleridge,
Shelley, Lord Tennyson, Mr. Swinburne--have rather deliberately imitated than spontaneously
recovered. Yet to all this charm there is no small drawback. The very maddest and most methodless
of the "Metaphysicals" cannot touch Crashaw in his tasteless use of conceits. When he, in The
Weeper just above referred to, calls the tears of Magdalene "Wat'ry brothers," and "Simpering
sons of those fair eyes," and when, in the most intolerable of all the poet's excesses, the
same eyes are called "Two waking baths, two weeping motions, Portable and compendious oceans,"
which follow our Lord about the hills of Galilee, it is almost difficult to know whether to
feel most contempt or indignation for a man who could so write. It is fair to say that there
are various readings and omissions in the different editions which affect both these passages.
Yet the offence is that Crashaw should ever have written them at all. Amends, however, are
sure to be made before the reader has read much farther. Crashaw's longest poems--a version
of Marini's Sospetto d'Herode, and one of the rather overpraised "Lover and Nightingale" story
of Strada--are not his best; the metre in which both are written, though the poet manages it
well, lacks the extraordinary charm of his lyric measures. It does not appear that the "Not
impossible she" ever made her appearance, and probably for a full half of his short life Crashaw
burnt only with religious fire. But no Englishman has expressed that fire as he has, and none
in his expression of any sentiment, sacred and profane, has dropped such notes of ethereal
music. At his best he is far above singing, at his worst he is below a very childish prattle.
But even then he is never coarse, never offensive, not very often actually dull; and everywhere
he makes amends by flowers of the divinest poetry. Mr. Pope, who borrowed not a little from
him, thought, indeed, that you could find nothing of "The real part of poetry" (correct construction
and so forth) in Crashaw; and Mr. Hayley gently rebukes Cowley (after observing that if Pope
borrowed from Crashaw, it was "as the sun borrows from the earth") for his "glowing panegyrick."
Now, if the real part of poetry is anywhere in Hayley, or quintessentially in Pope, it certainly
is not in Crashaw.

The group or school (for it is not easy to decide on either word, and objections might be taken
to each) at the head of which Herrick, Carew, and Crashaw must be placed, and which included
Herbert and his band of sacred singers, included also not a few minor groups, sufficiently
different from each other, but all marked off sharply from the innovating and classical school
of Waller and his followers, which it is not proposed to treat in this volume. All, without
exception, show the influence in different ways of Ben Jonson and of Donne. But each has its
own peculiarity. We find these peculiarities, together with anticipations of post-Reformation
characteristics, mixed very curiously in the miscellanies of the time. These are interesting
enough, and may be studied with advantage, if not also with pleasure, in the principal of them,
Wit's Recreations (1640). This, with certain kindred works (Wit Restored, and the very unsavoury
Musarum Deliciæ of Sir John Mennis and Dr. Smith), has been more than once republished. In
these curious collections, to mention only one instance, numerous pieces of Herrick's appeared
with considerable variants from the text of the Hesperides; and in their pages things old and
new, charming pastoral poems, vers de société of very unequal merit, ballads, satires, epigrams,
and a large quantity of mere scatology and doggerel, are heaped together pell-mell. Songs from
the dramatists, especially Fletcher, make their appearance, sometimes with slight variants,
and there are forms of the drinking song in Gammer Gurton's Needle long after, and of Sir John
Suckling's "Ballad on a Wedding," apparently somewhat before, their respective publication
in their proper places. Here is the joke about the wife and the almanack which reckless tradition
has told of Dryden; printed when Lady Elizabeth Howard was in the nursery, and Dryden was not
yet at Westminster. Here we learn how, probably about the second or third decade of the century,
the favourite authors of learned ladies were "Wither, Draiton, and Balzack" (Guez de Balzac
of the Letters), a very singular trio; and how some at least loved the "easy ambling" of Heywood's
prose, but thought that he "grovelled on the stage," which it must be confessed he not uncommonly
did. Wit Restored contains the charming "Phillida flouts Me," with other real "delights." Even
Milton makes his appearance in these collections, which continued to be popular for more than
a century, and acquired at intervals fresh vogue from the great names of Dryden and Pope.

Neglecting or returning from these, we may class the minor Caroline poets under the following
heads. There are belated Elizabethans like Habington, sacred poets of the school of Herbert,
translators like Stanley, Sherburne, and Quarles, philosophico-theological poets like Joseph
Beaumont and More, and poets of society, such as Lovelace and Suckling, whose class degenerated
into a class of boon companion song-writers, such as Alexander Brome, and, at the extremity
of our present period, Charles Cotton, in whose verse (as for the matter of that in the famous
muses of Lovelace and Suckling themselves) the rapidly degenerating prosody of the time is
sometimes painfully evident. This is also apparent (though it is compensated by much exquisite
poetry, and on the strictly lyric side rarely offends) in the work of Randolph, Corbet, Cartwright,
Chamberlayne of the Pharonnida, Sidney Godolphin, Shakerley Marmion, Cleveland, Benlowes, Kynaston,
John Hall, the enigmatic Chalkhill, Patrick Carey, Bishop King. These about exhaust the list
of poets who must be characterised here, though it could be extended. Cowley, Marvell, and
Waller fall outside our limits.

George Herbert, the one popular name, if we except Lovelace and Suckling, of the last paragraph,
was born at Montgomery Castle in 1593, of the great house now represented in the English peerage
by the holders of the titles of Pembroke, Carnarvon, and Powis. George was the younger brother
of the equally well-known Lord Herbert of Cherbury; and after being for some years public orator
at Cambridge, turned, it is said, on some despite or disappointment, from secular to sacred
business, accepted the living of Bemerton, and, after holding it for a short time, died in
1633. Walton's Life was hardly needed to fix Herbert in the popular mind, for his famous volume
of sacred poems, The Temple, would have done so, and has done so far more firmly. It was not
his only book by any means; he had displayed much wit as quite a boy in counter-lampooning
Andrew Melville's ponderous and impudent Anti-Tami-Cami-Categoria, an attack on the English
universities; and afterwards he wrote freely in Greek, Latin, and English, both in prose and
verse. Nothing, however, but The Temple has held popular estimation, and that has held it firmly,
being as much helped by the Tractarian as by the Romantic movement. It may be confessed without
shame and without innuendo that Herbert has been on the whole a greater favourite with readers
than with critics, and the reason is obvious. He is not prodigal of the finest strokes of poetry.
To take only his own contemporaries, and undoubtedly pupils, his gentle moralising and devotion
are tame and cold beside the burning glow of Crashaw, commonplace and popular beside the intellectual
subtlety and, now and then, the inspired touch of Vaughan. But he never drops into the flatness
and the extravagance of both these writers, and his beauties, assuredly not mean in themselves,
and very constantly present, are both in kind and in arrangement admirably suited to the average
comprehension. He is quaint and conceited; but his quaintnesses and conceits are never beyond
the reach of any tolerably intelligent understanding. He is devout, but his devotion does not
transgress into the more fantastic regions of piety. He is a mystic, but of the more exoteric
school of mysticism. He expresses common needs, common thoughts, the everyday emotions of the
Christian, just sublimated sufficiently to make them attractive. The fashion and his own taste
gave him a pleasing quaintness, which his good sense kept from being ever obscure or offensive
or extravagant. The famous "Sweet day so cool, so calm, so bright," and many short passages
which are known to every one, express Herbert perfectly. The thought is obvious, usual, in
no sense far fetched. The morality is plain and simple. The expression, with a sufficient touch
of the daintiness of the time, has nothing that is extraordinarily or ravishingly felicitous
whether in phrasing or versing. He is, in short, a poet whom all must respect; whom those that
are in sympathy with his vein of thought cannot but revere; who did England an inestimable
service, by giving to the highest and purest thoughts that familiar and abiding poetic garb
which contributes so much to fix any thoughts in the mind, and of which, to tell the truth,
poetry has been much more prodigal to other departments of thought by no means so well deserving.
But it is impossible to call him a great poet even in his own difficult class. The early Latin
hymn writers are there to show what a great religious poet must be like. Crashaw, if his genius
had been less irregular and jaculative, might have been such. Herbert is not, and could not
have been. With him it is an almost invariable custom to class Vaughan the "Silurist," and
a common one to unite George Sandys, the traveller, translator of Ovid, and paraphrast of the
Psalms and other parts of the Bible. Sandys, an older man than Herbert by fifteen, and than
Vaughan by more than forty years, published rather late, so that he came as a sacred poet after
Herbert, and not long before Vaughan. He was son of the Archbishop of York, and brother of
that Edwin Sandys who was a pupil of Hooker, and who is said to have been present on the melancholy
occasion when the judicious one was "called to rock the cradle." He is interesting for a singular
and early mastery of the couplet, which the following extract will show:--

    "O Thou, who all things hast of nothing made,
    Whose hand the radiant firmament displayed,
    With such an undiscerned swiftness hurled
    About the steadfast centre of the world;
    Against whose rapid course the restless sun,
    And wandering flames in varied motions run.
    Which heat, light, life infuse; time, night, and day
    Distinguish; in our human bodies sway:
    That hung'st the solid earth in fleeting air
    Veined with clear springs which ambient seas repair.
    In clouds the mountains wrap their hoary heads;
    Luxurious valleys clothed with flowery meads;
    Her trees yield fruit and shade; with liberal breasts
    All creatures she, their common mother, feasts."

Henry Vaughan was born in 1622, published Poems in 1646 (for some of which he afterwards expressed
a not wholly necessary repentance), Olor Iscanus (from Isca Silurum) in 1651, and Silex Scintillans,
his best-known book, in 1650 and 1655. He also published verses much later, and did not die
till 1695, being the latest lived of any man who has a claim to appear in this book, but his
aftergrowths were not happy. To say that Vaughan is a poet of one poem would not be true. But
the universally known

    "They are all gone into the world of light"

is so very much better than anything else that he has done that it would be hardly fair to
quote anything else, unless we could quote a great deal. Like Herbert, and in pretty obvious
imitation of him, he set himself to bend the prevailing fancy for quips and quaintnesses into
sacred uses, to see that the Devil should not have all the best conceits. But he is not so
uniformly successful, though he has greater depth and greater originality of thought.

Lovelace and Suckling are inextricably connected together, not merely by their style of poetry,
but by their advocacy of the same cause, their date, and their melancholy end. Both (Suckling
in 1609, Lovelace nine years later) were born to large fortunes, both spent them, at least
partially, in the King's cause, and both died miserably,--Suckling, in 1642, by his own hand,
his mind, according to a legend, unhinged by the tortures of the Inquisition; Lovelace, two
years before the Restoration, a needy though not an exiled cavalier, in London purlieus. Both
have written songs of quite marvellous and unparalleled exquisiteness, and both have left doggerel
which would disgrace a schoolboy. Both, it may be suspected, held the doctrine which Suckling
openly champions, that a gentleman should not take too much trouble about his verses. The result,
however, was in Lovelace's case more disastrous than in Suckling's. It is not quite true that
Lovelace left nothing worth reading but the two immortal songs, "To Lucasta on going to the
Wars" and "To Althea from Prison;" and it is only fair to say that the corrupt condition of
his text is evidently due, at least in part, to incompetent printing and the absence of revision.
"The Grasshopper" is almost worthy of the two better-known pieces, and there are others not
far below it. But on the whole any one who knows those two (and who does not?) may neglect
Lovelace with safety. Suckling, even putting his dramatic work aside, is not to be thus treated.
True, he is often careless in the bad sense as well as in the good, though the doggerel of
the "Sessions" and some other pieces is probably intentional. But in his own vein, that of
coxcombry that is not quite cynical, and is quite intelligent, he is marvellously happy. The
famous song in Aglaura, the Allegro to Lovelace's Penseroso, "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?"
is scarcely better than "'Tis now since I sat down before That foolish fort a heart," or "Out
upon it! I have loved Three whole days together." Nor in more serious veins is the author to
be slighted, as in "The Dance;" while as for the "Ballad on a Wedding," the best parts of this
are by common consent incomparable. Side by side by these are to be found, as in Lovelace,
pieces that will not even scan, and, as not in Lovelace (who is not seldom loose but never
nasty), pieces of a dull and disgusting obscenity. But we do not go to Suckling for these;
we go to him for his easy grace, his agreeable impudence, his scandalous mock-disloyalty (for
it is only mock-disloyalty after all) to the "Lord of Terrible Aspect," whom all his elder
contemporaries worshipped so piously. Suckling's inconstancy and Lovelace's constancy may or
may not be equally poetical,--there is some reason for thinking that the lover of Althea was
actually driven to something like despair by the loss of his mistress. But that matters to
us very little. The songs remain, and remain yet unsurpassed, as the most perfect celebrations,
in one case of chivalrous devotion, in the other of the coxcomb side of gallantry, that literature
contains or is likely ever to contain. The songwriting faculty of the English, which had broken
out some half century before, and had produced so many masterpieces, was near its death, or
at least near the trance from which Burns and Blake revived it more than a century later, which
even Dryden's superhuman faculty of verse could only galvanise. But at the last it threw off
by the mouths of men, who otherwise seem to have had very ordinary poetical powers, this little
group of triumphs in song, to which have to be added the raptures--equally strange and sweet,
equally unmatched of their kind, but nobler and more masculine--of the "Great Marquis," the
few and wonderful lines of Montrose. To quote "My dear and only love, I pray," or "Great, good,
and just, could I but rate," would be almost as much an insult to the reader as to quote the
above-mentioned little masterpieces of the two less heroic English cavaliers.

Quarles, More, and Joseph Beaumont form, as it were, a kind of appendix to the poetry of Herbert
and Vaughan--an appendix very much less distinguished by poetical power, but very interesting
as displaying the character of the time and the fashion (strange enough to us moderns) in which
almost every interest of that time found its natural way into verse. The enormous popularity
of Francis Quarles's Emblems and Enchiridion accounts to some extent for the very unjust ridicule
which has been lavished on him by men of letters of his own and later times. But the silly
antithesis of Pope, a writer who, great as he was, was almost as ignorant of literary history
as his model, Boileau, ought to prejudice no one, and it is strictly true that Quarles's enormous
volume hides, to some extent, his merits. Born in 1592 at Romford, of a gentle though not very
distinguished family, which enters into that curious literary genealogy of Swift, Dryden, and
Herrick, he was educated at Cambridge, became cup-bearer to the ill-fated and romantically
renowned "Goody Palsgrave," held the post which Middleton and Jonson had held, of chronologer
to the city of London, followed the King to Oxford to his loss, having previously had losses
in Ireland, and died early in 1644, leaving his memory to be defended in a rather affecting
document by his widow, Ursula. Quarles was a kind of journalist to whom the vehicle of verse
came more easily than the vehicle of prose, and the dangers of that state of things are well
known. A mere list of his work (the Enchiridion is in prose, and a good thing too) would far
exceed any space that can be given to him here. All Quarles's work is journey-work, but it
is only fair to note the frequent wealth of fancy, the occasional felicity of expression, which
illustrate this wilderness.

More and Beaumont were not, like Quarles, poetical miscellanists and periodical writers; but
they seem to have shared with him the delusion that poetry is an instrument of all work. Henry
More, a man well connected and who might have risen, but who preferred to pass the greater
part of a long and studious life as a fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, is best known
as a member of the theological school, indifferently called the Cambridge Platonists and the
Cambridge Latitudinarians. His chief work in verse is a great philosophical poem, entitled
the Song of the Soul, with such engaging sub-titles as Psychozoia, Psychathanasia, Antipsychopannychia,
and Antimonopsychia. I shall not, I hope, be suspected of being ignorant of Greek, or disinclined
to metaphysics, if I say that the Song of the Soul appears to me a venerable mistake. A philosophical
controversy carried on in this fashion--

    "But contradiction, can that have place
    In any soul? Plato affirms ideas;
    But Aristotle, with his pugnacious race,
    As idle figments stiffly them denies,"

seems to me to be a signal instance of the wrong thing in the wrong place. It is quite true
that More has, as Southey says, "lines and passages of sublime beauty." A man of his time,
actuated by its noble thought, trained as we know More to have been in the severest school
of Spenser, and thus habituated to the heavenly harmonies of that perfect poet, could hardly
fail to produce such. But his muse is a chaotic not a cosmic one.

Something the same may be said of Joseph Beaumont, a friend of Crashaw, and like him ejected
from Peterhouse, son-in-law of Bishop Wren, and, later, head of Jesus College. Beaumont, a
strong cavalier and an orthodox churchman, was a kind of adversary of More's, whose length
and quaintness he has exceeded, while he has almost rivalled his learning in Psyche or Love's
Mystery, a religious poem of huge dimensions, first published in 1648 and later in 1702. Beaumont,
as both fragments of this vast thing and his minor poems show, had fancy, taste, and almost
genius on opportunity; but the prevailing mistake of his school, the idea that poetry is a
fit vehicle for merely prosaic expression, is painfully apparent in him.

First, for various reasons, among the nondescripts of the Caroline school, deserves to be mentioned
William Habington, a Roman Catholic gentleman of good upper middle-class station, whose father
was himself a man of letters, and had some trouble in the Gunpowder Plot. He was born at Hindlip
Hall, near Worcester, in the year of the plot itself, courted and married Lucy Herbert, daughter
of his neighbour, Lord Powis, and published her charms and virtues in the collection called
Castara, first issued in 1634. Habington also wrote a tragic comedy, The Queen of Aragon, and
some other work, but died in middle life. It is upon Castara that his fame rests. To tell the
truth it is, though, as had been said, an estimable, yet a rather irritating work. That Habington
was a true lover every line of it shows; that he had a strong infusion of the abundant poetical
inspiration then abroad is shown by line after line, though hardly by poem after poem, among
its pieces. His series of poems on the death of his friend Talbot is full of beauty. His religion
is sincere, fervent, and often finely expressed; though he never rose to Herbert's pure devotion,
or to Crashaw's flaming poetry. One of the later Castara poems may be given:--

    "We saw and woo'd each other's eyes,
      My soul contracted then with thine,
    And both burnt in one sacrifice,
      By which our marriage grew divine.

    "Let wilder youths, whose soul is sense,
      Profane the temple of delight,
    And purchase endless penitence,
      With the stolen pleasure of one night.

    "Time's ever ours, while we despise
      The sensual idol of our clay,
    For though the sun do set and rise,
      We joy one everlasting day.

    "Whose light no jealous clouds obscure,
      While each of us shine innocent,
    The troubled stream is still impure;
      With virtue flies away content.

    "And though opinions often err,
      We'll court the modest smile of fame,
    For sin's black danger circles her,
      Who hath infection in her name.

    "Thus when to one dark silent room
      Death shall our loving coffins thrust:
    Fame will build columns on our tomb,
      And add a perfume to our dust."

But Castara is a real instance of what some foreign critics very unjustly charge on English
literature as a whole--a foolish and almost canting prudery. The poet dins the chastity of
his mistress into his readers' heads until the readers in self-defence are driven to say, "Sir,
did any one doubt it?" He protests the freedom of his own passion from any admixture of fleshly
influence, till half a suspicion of hypocrisy and more than half a feeling of contempt force
themselves on the hearer. A relentless critic might connect these unpleasant features with
the uncharitable and more than orthodox bigotry of his religious poems. Yet Habington, besides
contributing much agreeable verse to the literature of the period, is invaluable as showing
the counterside to Milton, the Catholic Puritanism which is no doubt inherent in the English
nature, and which, had it not been for the Reformation, would probably have transformed Catholicism
in a very strange fashion.

There is no Puritanism of any kind in a group--it would hardly be fair to call them a school--of
"Heroic" poets to whom very little attention has been paid in histories of literature hitherto,
but who lead up not merely to Davenant's Gondibert and Cowley's Davideis, but to Paradise Lost
itself. The "Heroic" poem was a kind generated partly by the precepts of the Italian criticism,
including Tasso, partly by the practice of Tasso himself, and endeavouring to combine something
of the unity of Epic with something and more of the variety of Romance. It may be represented
here by the work of Chalkhill, Chamberlayne, Marmion, and Kynaston. John Chalkhill, the author
of Thealma and Clearchus, was, with his work, introduced to the public in 1683 by Izaak Walton,
who styles him "an acquaintant and friend of Edmund Spenser." If so, he must have been one
of the first of English poets to adopt the very loose enjambed decasyllabic couplet in which
his work, like that of Marmion and still more Chamberlayne, is written. His poem is unfinished,
and the construction and working-up of the story are looser even than the metre; but it contains
a great deal of charming description and some very poetical phrase.

Much the same may be said of the Cupid and Psyche (1637) of the dramatist Shakerley Marmion
(v. inf.), which follows the original of Apuleius with alternate closeness and liberty, but
is always best when it is most original. The Leoline and Sydanis (1642) of Sir Francis Kynaston
is not in couplets but in rhyme royal--a metre of which the author was so fond that he even
translated the Troilus and Cressida of Chaucer into Latin, retaining the seven-line stanza
and its rhymes. Kynaston, who was a member of both universities and at one time proctor at
Cambridge, was a man interested in various kinds of learning, and even started an Academy or
Museum Minervæ of his own. In Leoline and Sydanis he sometimes comes near to the mock heroic,
but in his lyrics called Cynthiades he comes nearer still to the best Caroline cry. One or
two of his pieces have found their way into anthologies, but until the present writer reprinted
his works[60] he was almost unknown.

[60] In Minor Caroline Poets, vols. i. and ii. (Oxford, 1905-6). An important addition to the
religious verse of the time was made by Mr. Dobell with the Poems (London, 1903) of Thomas
Traherne, a follower of Herbert, with some strange anticipations of Blake.

The most important by far, however, of this group is William Chamberlayne, a physician of Shaftesbury,
who, before or during the Civil War, began and afterwards finished (publishing it in 1659)
the very long heroic romance of Pharonnida, a story of the most involved and confused character
but with episodes of great vividness and even sustained power: a piece of versification straining
the liberties of enjambement in line and want of connection in syntax to the utmost; but a
very mine of poetical expression and imagery. Jewels are to be picked up on every page by those
who will take the trouble to do so, and who are not offended by the extraordinary nonchalance
of the composition.

The Theophila of Edward Benlowes (1603?-1676) was printed in 1652 with elaborate and numerous
engravings by Hollar, which have made it rare, and usually imperfect when met with. Benlowes
was a Cambridge man (of St. John's College) by education, but lived latterly and died at Oxford,
having been reduced from wealth to poverty by the liberality which made his friends anagrammatise
his name into "Benevolus." His work was abused as an awful example of the extravagant style
by Butler (Character of a Small Poet), and by Warburton in the next century; but it was never
reprinted till the date of the collection just noted. It is a really curious book, displaying
the extraordinary diffusion of poetical spirit still existing, but in a hectic and decadent
condition. Benlowes--a Cleveland with more poetry and less cleverness, or a very much weaker
Crashaw--uses a monorhymed triplet made up of a heroic, an octosyllable, and an Alexandrine
which is as wilfully odd as the rest of him.

Randolph, the youngest and not the least gifted of the tribe of Ben, died before he was thirty,
after writing some noteworthy plays, and a certain number of minor poems, which, as it has
been well observed, rather show that he might have done anything, than that he did actually
do something. Corbet was Bishop first of Oxford and then of Norwich, and died in 1635. Corbet's
work is of that peculiar class which is usually, though not always, due to "University Wits,"
and which only appeals to people with a considerable appreciation of humour, and a large stock
of general information. It is always occasional in character, and rarely succeeds so well as
when the treatment is one of distinct persiflage. Thus the elegy on Donne is infinitely inferior
to Carew's, and the mortuary epitaph on Arabella Stuart is, for such a subject and from the
pen of a man of great talent, extraordinarily feeble. The burlesque epistle to Lord Mordaunt
on his journey to the North is great fun, and the "Journey into France," though, to borrow
one of its own jokes, rather "strong," is as good. The "Exhortation to Mr. John Hammond," a
ferocious satire on the Puritans, distinguishes itself from almost all precedent work of the
kind by the force and directness of its attack, which almost anticipates Dryden. And Corbet
had both pathetic and imaginative touches on occasion, as here:--

    "What I shall leave thee none can tell,
    But all shall say I wish thee well,
    I wish thee, Vin, before all wealth,
    Both bodily and ghostly health;
    Nor too much wealth, nor wit, come to thee,
    So much of either may undo thee.
    I wish thee learning, not for show,
    Enough for to instruct and know;
    Not such as gentlemen require
    To prate at table, or at fire.
    I wish thee all thy mother's graces,
    Thy father's fortunes, and his places.
    I wish thee friends, and one at court,
    Not to build on, but support
    To keep thee, not in doing many
    Oppressions, but from suffering any.
    I wish thee peace in all thy ways,
    Nor lazy nor contentious days;
    And when thy soul and body part
    As innocent as now those art."

