He has also in the management of the story confined himself, as was his wont, to a few characters,
Donatello, Miriam, Hilda, and Kenyon, each strictly isolated in peculiar individuality, and
offering the opportunity for powerful contrasts; and he has allowed his imagination to find
its spring in the symbolism of a physical object, here the marble statue of the faun, and let
his moral scheme evolve out of the brooding of his thought upon the spiritual thing thus suggested
for the play of meditation. The plot itself, though more definitely disclosed in its main incident
of crime, which is made central in the narrative, is of the simplest sort, and no more than
enough to provide corporal fact sufficient to give the body of event and situation; and, for
the rest, the story both before and after is left wholly vague, the mystery of Donatello's
fate repeating the mystery of Miriam's past. In this he showed again his indifference to what
became of his characters when they had fulfilled their function artistically; he had no human
sympathy with their personal fortunes. This peculiarity is only another phase of the fact that
crime itself did not interest him in its mortal career. The use he found in crime was only
as the means by which sin was generated in the soul; and his concern was with the latter, not
the former.

He has projected on such a background and out of such a group of characters an analytic study
of the nature of evil, and this is his main theme, overlaid as it is with all the decorative
beauty of his interpretation of Italy. He had formerly set forth the history of sin in the
heart, taking the evil for granted and reflecting upon it as a thing given; he now looks backward
and is engaged with the genesis of sin in a natural man, the coming of sin into the world of
nature; and yet this is not all, but he endeavors to think about the meaning of evil, the reason
for sin's existence, the old problem fundamental in thought about the spiritual life. It cannot
be regarded as a matter on which he came to any satisfactory conclusion or even uttered any
novel reflections; and it is this that gives its lack of firmness to the work on the ethical
side. Donatello is made into a living soul of a higher capacity by his experience of crime;
but Hawthorne suggests that evil serves a good purpose in this only with much reluctance, and
indeed he may almost be said to reject this explanation. Donatello became "a sadder and a wiser
man," and with that old phrase the issue for him seems to be summed. It is noticeable that,
as in "The Scarlet Letter," there is no question of how this soul that has come into a miserable
consciousness is to be healed; and it is remarkable that the only consolation the Church can
give is vouchsafed by Hawthorne to the heretic Hilda, but not to the child of its own bosom.
Hawthorne, if he indicates through Kenyon his ideas, seems to advise, as elsewhere, letting
the dead past bury its dead while Donatello and Miriam should go on to what self-sacrificing
life they can find. Unsatisfactory as the story is, merely as a tale, it is less vague than
the central truth, the moral theme which it embodies. The truth is that after all, in the ethical
sphere of the story, Hawthorne has given no more than his meditations, very much at random,
upon sin as it appears in the world of nature, and the way in which his chosen characters react
under its influence. Hilda is as innocent as Donatello, but her soul frees itself from the
contact; and Miriam is as guilty, yet she alone is unaffected by the crime in her essential
nature, so far as appears. She is the most vital character in the book, having touches in her
of both Hester and Zenobia; the three women are all of one kind in their different environment,
and Miriam is the most human of the three,--strong, assertive, practical as they all are, and
also entirely resourceless in their tragedies.

The romance is not of a kind to sustain very firm critical handling, for its structure is thus
weak, not merely in the plot but in its ethical meaning; if the former is left unwrought, so
the latter is left unclarified. The power of the work lies rather in its artistic effects,
independent of any purpose Hawthorne had in writing; his genius was creative in its own right,
and when he had once brought the background, the characters, and the idea together, they in
a certain sense took life and built up their own story, while his hand linked picture to picture
in the unfolding scene, with a free play of sentiment, fancy, and meditation round about them.
Intense points show out, as if by an inner and undesigned brilliancy. The companionship of
Donatello, full of the freshness and laughter of the early world, with Miriam tracked by her
own terrible secret, is itself a startling situation, and the effecting of their union by a
crime, which paralyzes the love of one while it creates the love of the other, is the work
of a master imagination. Hilda in her dove-cote, keeping the perpetual lamp burning at the
Virgin's shrine and taking into her heart the lovely pictures of old time as a pool reflects
heaven in its quiet depths, is a figure of sensitive purity, rendered symbolically, with the
same truth and delicacy as Donatello, though so opposed in contrast to his natural innocence
blighted and stained; even the quality of mercilessness, which Hawthorne gave her out of his
own heart, she turns to favor and to prettiness, till it seems to belong to her as a part of
her chastity of nature. The reduplication of the characters in the world of art about them,
though it is frequently resorted to by Hawthorne, does not grow monotonous; but by this method
he rather animates the external world, as if picture and statue and tower had absorbed life
and were permeated with its human emotion. The faun is, perhaps, a somewhat hard symbol, and
needs to be vitalized in Donatello before its truth is felt to be alive; but the drawing that
reproduces the model as the demon's face, the sketches of Miriam portraying a woman's revengeful
mischief, the sights that Donatello and Kenyon shape out of the sunset, the benediction of
the statue of the pontiff, the evasive eyes of Beatrice felt in Hilda, Donatello, and Miriam,
are instances of borrowed or attributed life, which illustrate how constantly and effectively
Hawthorne uses this means of expression, and it is the chief means by which he has integrated
and harmonized the various material into a whole artistically felt. It is an error, however,
to force his interpretation too far, as in the attempt to see in the Beatrice portrait a shadow
of Miriam's mystery; if such a thought crossed his mind, it left no record of itself, and he
was as ignorant as others of Miriam's actual past, one may be sure. That unwillingness to be
gazed upon, of which he makes so much, recurring to it again and again and most pointedly in
Donatello, was the simplest and primary symbol to him, apparently, of the shock of sin, whether
it were in the victim like Beatrice or the participant like Donatello or the spectator like
Hilda. In Miriam it is less felt, because to her the knowledge of evil had come in her earlier
career.

It is in rendering this spiritual shock, disturbing the very seat of life, that Hawthorne best
succeeds in the moral part of his subject; and it is by awakening some answering vibration
in his readers that he imparts to the romance that universal interest which makes it rank so
high as it does in the literature of the soul's life. He was not, however, very apt in the
mechanics of his art, and in lieu of structure such as a man of far less faculty might be an
adept in, he finds in his imagined tale a principle of life itself; his work is seldom well
reasoned, but it has vital germs of thought, emotion, and action, and these are loosed into
activity and grow of themselves, and he fosters and develops them in his richly brooding mind.
So, here, the spiritual shock, which is the central spring of the romance, is allowed to transmit
itself in every direction, and he lays bare its workings. It is saddest in Donatello in the
moment when he heard the cry of the falling wretch, when he turned cold at Miriam's touch,
when he lost his kinship with the wild creatures he loved; and it is fixed in his unquiet,
evasive eyes. One loves Donatello, and of no other character of Hawthorne can it be said that
it wins affection; and one wishes that, if he must have a soul, he might have come into it
in some way of natural kindness dissociated from a moral theory. This theory--and here is the
one discord--is, after all, felt to be an exotic in the Italian air. Donatello has been puritanized,
and though the character may be a perfect symbolic type, it has nothing racial in it; and to
be racial was Donatello's charm. It is the same wherever the story is taken up; it is charming
as an artistic work, but when one begins to think about it, the method of approach is proved
to be wrong because it solves nothing and ends in futility. It is throughout a Puritan romance,
which has wandered abroad and clothed itself in strange masquerade in the Italian air. Hawthorne's
personality pervades it, like life in a sensitive hand. It is the best and fullest and most
intimate expression of his temperament, of the man he had come to be, and takes the imprint
of his soul with minute delicacy and truth. It is a meditation on sin, but so made gracious
with beauty as to lose the deformity of its theme; and it suffers a metamorphosis into a thing
of loveliness. To us it is in boyhood our dream of Italy, and in after years the best companion
of memory; it is also a romance of nature and art, and of the mystery of evil, shot through
with such sunshine gleams, with the presence of pure color and divine forms, as to seem like
the creations of that old mythic Mediterranean world which, though it held shapes of terror,
was the most beautiful land that the imagination has ever known.

VIII.

LAST YEARS.

Hawthorne reached Concord, on his home journey, late in June, 1860, and took possession of
the Wayside almost unobserved. He had intended to improve the house and grounds, and set about
the task; the well-known tower, in memory of the tower of Montaueto, was added for his study,
and some other changes were made, but his funds, which were diminished by an unfortunate loan,
were insufficient to enable him to do all he desired. He was welcomed by his old Concord friends,
and began again the agreeable village life he had formerly known; but he mingled more on equal
terms with other people than had been his custom before his foreign residence had forced him
into some share of society. He went not infrequently to the Saturday Club in Boston, and though
always a silent and reserved person in such gatherings, his enjoyment of these occasions was
as great as he could ever derive from literary companionship, and many of the members were
old and familiar acquaintances. It was at home, however, that he spent his days, working in
his study over his writing, and pacing the footpath on the hill-ridge back of his house, and
from time to time going to the seaside at Beverly or in Maine with his son Julian for a companion.
His health was not so firm as it had been. A change seems to have fallen on him with some suddenness
on his return to America; for some years, ever since the hard winter of "The Scarlet Letter"
at Salem, he had complained of fatigue in writing and of lassitude and slowness of mind; after
the winter in Rome he felt this with new weariness, as he says when he practically ended his
notebooks in Switzerland, not having the vital impulse to continue them, and in the intervening
time he had completed "The Marble Faun;" now he began perceptibly to lose physical force, to
grow thin, and to lack energy. He wrote a good deal, sitting down to his desk and "blotting
successive sheets of paper as of yore;" but with little satisfaction to himself.

The times were unfavorable to peace of mind and the quiet of literary occupation. Secession
began soon after he arrived, and war followed in the spring with that outburst of passionate
devotion to the Union which was transforming all his neighborhood into a camp and sending all
the youth of his people to the battle southward. To Hawthorne, being in such imperfect sympathy
with this feeling and the causes which gave it passion, the war was only vexation and disaster,
with much meaninglessness, foolishness, uselessness, however he might try to look at it with
Northern eyes. In nothing is his natural detachment from life so marked as in this incapacity
to understand the national life in so supreme a crisis and under the impulse of so profound
a passion. He stood aloof from it, unmoved in his superannuated conservatism, as abroad he
had stood aloof from the English life wrapped in his imperturbable New England breeding. He
was obliged to take some stand in his own mind, and he naturally went with his own State, never
having been really an American, on the national scale, but only a New Englander, as he confessed.
During his life at Liverpool, four years before, he had made up his mind which side he would
be on, when the prospect of war began to loom up as a possibility, and wrote briefly to Bridge
about it:--

"I regret that you think so doubtfully (or, rather, despairingly) of the prospects of the Union;
for I should like well enough to hold on to the old thing. And yet I must confess that I sympathize
to a large extent with the Northern feeling, and think it is about time for us to make a stand.
If compelled to choose, I go for the North. At present we have no country--at least, none in
the sense an Englishman has a country. I never conceived, in reality, what a true and warm
love of country is till I witnessed it in the breasts of Englishmen. The States are too various
and too extended to form really one country. New England is quite as large a lump of earth
as my heart can really take in.

"Don't let Frank Pierce see the above, or he would turn me out of office, late in the day as
it is. However, I have no kindred with, nor leaning towards, the abolitionists."

In the first flush of the war he felt the contagion of the patriotic thrill, and was with his
friends a "war Democrat;" but his mind was filled with reservations. On May 26, 1861, he again
writes to Bridge:--

"The war, strange to say, has had a beneficial effect upon my spirits, which were flagging
woefully before it broke out. But it was delightful to share in the heroic sentiment of the
time, and to feel that I had a country,--a consciousness which seemed to make me young again.
One thing as regards this matter I regret, and one thing I am glad of. The regrettable thing
is that I am too old to shoulder a musket myself, and the joyful thing is that Julian is too
young. He drills constantly with a company of lads, and means to enlist as soon as he reaches
the minimum age. But I trust we shall either be victorious or vanquished before that time.
Meantime, though I approve the war as much as any man, I don't quite understand what we are
fighting for, or what definite result can be expected. If we pummel the South ever so hard,
they will love us none the better for it; and even if we subjugate them, our next step should
be to cut them adrift. If we are fighting for the annihilation of slavery, to be sure it may
be a wise object, and offer a tangible result, and the only one which is consistent with a
future union between North and South. A continuance of the war would soon make this plain to
us, and we should see the expediency of preparing our black brethren for future citizenship
by allowing them to fight for their own liberties, and educating them through heroic influences.
Whatever happens next, I must say that I rejoice that the old Union is smashed. We never were
one people, and never really had a country since the Constitution was formed."

Six months later he writes again with nearly the same point of view, accepting in fact the
theory of disunion as the only possible result:--

"I am glad you take such a hopeful view of our national prospects so far as regards the war;
but my own opinion is that no nation ever came safe and sound through such a confounded difficulty
as this of ours. For my part I don't hope, nor indeed wish, to see the Union restored as it
was. Amputation seems to me much the better plan, and all we ought to fight for is the liberty
of selecting the point where our diseased members shall be lop't off. I would fight to the
death for the northern slave States and let the rest go."

It is this despair of the Union that characterizes his attitude throughout, and with it goes
also an absence of belief in the Union; but one feels that he is not deeply interested in the
matter for its own sake. Thus after another interval he again writes to Bridge, February 14,
1862:--

"Frank Pierce came here and spent a night, a week or two since, and we mingled our tears and
condolences for the state of the country. Pierce is truly patriotic, and thinks there is nothing
left for us but to fight it out, but I should be sorry to take his opinion implicitly as regards
our chances in the future. He is bigoted to the Union, and sees nothing but ruin without it;
whereas I (if we can only put the boundary far enough south) should not much regret an ultimate
separation."

The next month Hawthorne visited Washington and saw the edges of the conflict, and he wrote
out his impressions of men and of the scenes in his article "Chiefly about War Matters," which
was published in "The Atlantic Monthly" for July, 1862. The text was sufficiently unsympathetic
with the times to trouble the editor's mind, and Hawthorne, to ease the situation, added explanatory
comments of his own as if from an editorial pen. The article shows conclusively how little
Hawthorne had been affected, how completely he stood out of the national spirit, being as mere
an observer of what was going on as at any time in his life and expressing his own view from
time to time with entire obliviousness, as in the passages on Lincoln and on John Brown, of
everything except his own impression.

Whatever one may think of this as the truth of common-sense, its publication in the summer
of 1862 in Massachusetts showed an impenetrable self-possession in the author, and it is doubtless
true, as has been said, that no other Northern man could have written such an article as this,
so disengaged from the realities, the passion and prejudices of the time, so cold in observation
and so impartial in feeling, so free from any participation in the scene.

It was during the winter of this year and the spring of 1863 that Hawthorne renewed his literary
work by contributing to "The Atlantic Monthly" the papers afterwards published as "Our Old
Home." [Footnote: Our Old Home. A Series of English Sketches. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston:
Ticknor and Fields. 1863. 12mo. Pp. 398.] The contents of this volume have already been spoken
of, and it need only be remarked here that some allowance may fairly be made for their tone
and manner on the score of the depression of the time, arising from Hawthorne's increasing
ill-health as well as from public confusion. The one memorable incident connected with the
new book is the adherence of the author to his design of dedicating it to Franklin Pierce,
to whom indeed it fitly belonged. Fields, however, was doubtful how the public would look on
a compliment paid to the unpopular ex-President, and on communicating his views to Hawthorne
he received this answer:--

"I thank you for your note of the 15th instant, and have delayed my reply thus long in order
to ponder deeply on your advice, smoke cigars over it, and see what it might be possible for
me to do towards taking it. I find that it would be a piece of poltroonery in me to withdraw
either the dedication or the dedicatory letter. My long and intimate personal relations with
Pierce render the dedication altogether proper, especially as regards this book, which would
have had no existence without his kindness; and if he is so exceedingly unpopular that his
name is enough to sink the volume, there is so much the more need that an old friend should
stand by him. I cannot, merely on account of pecuniary profit or literary reputation, go back
from what I have deliberately felt and thought it right to do; and if I were to tear out the
dedication, I should never look at the volume again without remorse and shame. As for the literary
public, it must accept my book precisely as I think fit to give it, or let it alone."

Hawthorne's decision was in the line of his character, and the dedication itself was in excellent
taste.

The imaginative work of these last years was considerable in bulk, but it was never brought
to any perfection; and though it has been published, the entire mass of it is only a bundle
of more or less rough or uncompleted sketches and studies. It is comprised in the group of
half-wrought tales, "The Ancestral Footstep," "Septimius Felton," "Dr. Grimshawe's Secret,"
and "The Dolliver Romance," which are all various shapes of the one work that Hawthorne was
trying to evoke from his mind. They are interesting illustrations of the operation of his imagination,
of his methods of thought, construction and elaboration, and in general of the manner in which
a romance might grow under the hand; but there is little probability, so far as can be judged,
that Hawthorne ever before worked in this experimental and ineffectual way. He had sketched
an English romance "The Ancestral Foot-Step," in 1858, before his Italian experiences, and
laid it aside. It was after his return to Concord that he again took up the scheme, and he
attempted to join it with another plan involving a different idea. The four states in which
the romance exists are the results of his various efforts, but in none of them is it anything
more than inchoate. The idea on the English side of the story sprang from the imprint of a
bloody footstep at the foot of the great staircase at Smithell's Hall; on the American side
it sprang from a tradition which Thoreau reported about the Concord house, to the effect that
a man had lived there in the Revolution who sought the elixir of life. But neither of these
two topics developed satisfactorily. The physical type which had served Hawthorne so well hitherto
no longer responded to his art; neither the bloody footstep, nor the flower that grew upon
the grave, which was after all only a fungus and not the real flower of life, had any story
in them, either alone or together, and the figure of Sylph, who embodies allegorically this
graveyard flower, has no power to win credence such as other, earlier, symbolic characters
had won. The power of narration, the rich surface of romantic art, the character of the physician
and the child, the scene of the Revolutionary morning, the English chamber, the white-haired
old man, the treasure chest with its secret of golden hair,--all these things are in one or
another of these studies, and there is much loveliness of detail; but there is no vitality
in any of these; that element of life which has been spoken of before, as the germinal power
in Hawthorne's imaginative work, is gone; here are only relics and fragments, the costume and
settings, the figures, the sentiment, the beauty of surface, the atmosphere of romance, but
the story has refused to take life. Whether it was due to Hawthorne's failing powers or to
inherent incapacities of the theme, is immaterial; he was not to finish this last work, and
he knew it. He had gone so far as to give Fields the promise of "The Dolliver Romance," as
if it were in that form that he meant to reduce the whole; but he did so with no confidence,
as appears from his successive notes:--

"There is something preternatural in my reluctance to begin. I linger at the threshold, and
have a perception of very disagreeable phantoms to be encountered if I enter.... I don't see
much probability of my having the first chapter of the Romance ready as soon as you want it.
There are two or three chapters ready to be written, but I am not robust enough to begin, and
I feel as if I should never carry it through." And he writes again: "I am not quite up to writing
yet, but shall make an effort as soon as I see any hope of success. You ought to be thankful
that (like most other broken-down authors) I do not pester you with decrepit pages, and insist
upon your accepting them as full of the old spirit and vigor. That trouble, perhaps, still
awaits you, after I shall have reached a further stage of decay. Seriously, my mind has, for
the present, lost its temper and its fine edge, and I have an instinct that I had better keep
quiet. Perhaps I shall have a new spirit of vigor, if I wait quietly for it; perhaps not."

In February, 1864, he advises that some notice be given the readers of the magazine that he
cannot furnish the promised romance, and he tries to touch the subject with humor, but it is
too plain that his spirits are ill at ease:--

"I hardly know what to say to the public about this abortive romance, though I know pretty
well what the case will be. I shall never finish it. Yet it is not quite pleasant for an author
to announce himself, or to be announced, as finally broken down as to his literary faculty....
I cannot finish it unless a great change comes over me; and if I make too great an effort to
do so, it will be my death; not that I should care much for that, if I could fight the battle
through and win it, thus ending a life of much smoulder and a scanty fire in a blaze of glory.
But I should smother myself in mud of my own making.... I am not low-spirited, nor fanciful,
nor freakish, but look what seem to me realities in the face, and am ready to take whatever
may come. If I could but go to England now, I think that the sea-voyage and the 'old Home'
might set me all right."

At the end of March he started south with Ticknor, in hopes of some improvement by the change
of air and scene; his companion, who was expected rather to have the care of Hawthorne, was
himself taken ill and suddenly died in Philadelphia. The shock to Hawthorne in his state of
health was a great one, and he returned home excited and nervous. He failed rapidly, and his
family and friends became anxious about him, though they did not anticipate the suddenness
of the end. In the middle of May Frank Pierce proposed that they should go to the New Hampshire
lakes and up the Pemigewasset, by carriage, and Hawthorne consented. He bade his wife and children
good-by, and was perhaps convinced that he would never return; whatever thoughts were in his
mind, he kept silence concerning them. The narrative of the journey, with its end, is given
by Pierce in a letter to Bridge:--

"I met H. at Boston, Wednesday (11th), came to this place by rail Thursday morning, and went
to Concord, N. H., by evening train. The weather was unfavorable, and H. feeble; and we remained
at C. until the following Monday. We then went slowly on our journey, stopping at Franklin,
Laconia, and Centre Harbor, and reaching Plymouth Wednesday evening (18th). We talked of you,
Tuesday, between Franklin and Laconia, when H. said--among other things--'We have, neither
of us, met a more reliable friend.' The conviction was impressed upon me, the day we left Boston,
that the seat of the disease from which H. was suffering was in the brain or spine, or both;
H. walked with difficulty, and the use of his hands was impaired. In fact, on the 17th I saw
that he was becoming quite helpless, although he was able to ride, and, I thought, more comfortable
in the carriage with gentle motion than anywhere else; for whether in bed or up, he was very
restless. I had decided, however, not to pursue our journey beyond Plymouth, which is a beautiful
place, and thought, during our ride Wednesday, that I would the next day send for Mrs. Hawthorne
and Una to join us there. Alas! there was no next day for our friend.

"We arrived at Plymouth about six o'clock. After taking a little tea and toast in his room,
and sleeping for nearly an hour upon the sofa, he retired. A door opened from my room to his,
and our beds were not more than five or six feet apart. I remained up an hour or two after
he fell asleep. He was apparently less restless than the night before. The light was left burning
in my room--the door open--and I could see him without moving from my bed. I went, however,
between one and two o'clock to his bedside, and supposed him to be in a profound slumber. His
eyes were closed, his position and face perfectly natural. His face was towards my bed. I awoke
again between three and four o'clock, and was surprised--as he had generally been restless--to
notice that his position was unchanged,--exactly the same that it was two hours before. I went
to his bedside, placed my hand upon his forehead and temple, and found that he was dead. He
evidently had passed from natural sleep to that sleep from which there is no waking, without
suffering, and without the slightest movement."

The funeral took place at Concord on May 24, 1864, and he was buried in Sleepy Hollow; on his
coffin lay his unfinished romance, and his friends stood about the open grave, for he was almost
the first of the distinguished group to which he belonged to lay down the pen. Emerson and
others whose names have been frequent in this record now lie with him in that secluded spot,
which is a place of long memory for our literature. His wife survived him a few years and died
in London in 1871; perhaps even more than his genius the sweetness of his home life with her,
as it is so abundantly shown in his children's memories, lingers in the mind that has dwelt
long on the story of his life.

INDEX

Advertisement, the tenth Muse.
AEsthetic Papers, Hawthorne's contributions to.
Alcott, Amos Bronson.
Aliston, Washington.
American Magazine of Useful and
  Entertaining Knowledge, The, Hawthorne edits.
American Monthly Magazine, The;
  Hawthorne's contributions to;
  Benjamin writes of Hawthorne in.
Andrews, Ferdinand, a Salem printer.
Androscoggin Loo Club.
Annuals, contemporary opinion of.
Arbella, the ship.
Athenaeum Society at Bowdoin College.
Athenaeum, The London, favorable
  notice of Hawthorne in.
Atherton, Senator Charles G., meets Hawthorne.
Atlantic Monthly, The, Hawthorne's contributions to.
Atlantic Souvenir, The, Philadelphia.
Augusta, Maine, Hawthorne visits Bridge at.
Austin, William, so-called "American predecessor"
  of Hawthorne.

Bacon, Delia, Hawthorne's kindness to.
Bancroft, George, appoints Hawthorne
  weigher and ganger in Boston Custom House;
  offers Hawthorne a clerkship in Charlestown
  Navy Yard.
Benjamin, Park, recognizes Hawthorne's genius;
  coolness of Hawthorne toward.
Bewick Company, The, Boston.
Blithedale Romance, The, estimate of;
  external realism of.
Blodgett, Mrs., with whom Hawthorne
  boarded at Liverpool.
Boston American Stationers' Company.
Boston Athenaeum.
Boston Miscellany, The, "A Virtuoso's
  Collection" published in.
Bowditch family, the.
Bowdoin College;
  simplicity of;
  Hawthorne's distinguished classmates in.
Boys' and Girls' Magazine, The,
  Hawthorne's contributions to.
Bradford, George P.
Bradley, Rev. Caleb, Hawthorne tutored by.
Bremer, Fredrika.
Bridge, Horatio, Hawthorne's early confidant;
  Hawthorne's letters to, quoted;
  his friendship for;
  guarantees publication of "Twice-Told Tales";
  again aids Hawthorne;
  Hawthorne assists in revising
  "Journal of an African Cruiser";
  his "naval picnic," note;
  visits Hawthorne in Berkshire;
  "a reliable friend,".
Bright, Henry,
  his "Song of Consul Hawthorne,"
Brook Farm;
  Hawthorne at;
  broken up.
Brown, Charles Brockden, so-called
  "American predecessor"
  of Hawthorne.
Brownings, the, Robert and Elizabeth Barrett.
Bryant, William Cullen.
Buchanan, James.
Buckingham, Joseph Tinker.
Barley, Miss Susan,
  of Salem.

Canterbury,
  Shaker Community in.
Carlyle, Thomas,
  wherein Hawthorne resembled.
Casa Bella,
  Hawthorne's residence in Florence.
Chamber under the Eaves, the.
Charming, Ellery.
Channing, William Ellery.
Choate, Rufus.
Chorley, Henry F.
Cilley, Jonathan,
  classmate of Hawthorne;
  elected to Congress;
  shot in a duel.
Clark, S. Gaylord,
  editor Knickerbocker Magazine.
Concord, Mass.,
  Hawthorne moves to Old Manse in;
  literary work in;
  hard conditions of Hawthorne's life in;
  Hawthorne settles at The Wayside in.
Cooper, James Fenimore.
Custom House, Boston.
Custom House, Salem,
  Hawthorne appointed surveyor;
  his sketch of;
  an antidote to Transcendentalism.

Democratic Review, The, Hawthorne's contributions to.
Dewey, Rev. Orville.
Dial, The, transcendental publication.
Diary, Hawthorne's first, note.
Dickens, Charles,
  his manner suggested in "House of the Seven Gables".
Dike, Mrs. Priscilla Manning.
Duyckinck, Evert Augustus.
Dwight, Mrs. William (Eliza White).

Emerson, Ralph Waldo,
  his visit to Sophia Peabody;
  relations with Hawthorne.
Everett, Edward.

Faerie Queene, The,
  Hawthorne's first book purchase.
Fairfield, Senator John,
  meets Hawthorne at Portsmouth Navy Yard.
Farley, Frank.
Fesseuden, Thomas Green.
Fields, James T.,
  quoted;
  his wise suggestion;
  good advice;
  Hawthorne writes to, from Montaueto;
  from Rome;
  regarding dedication to "Life of Franklin Pierce";
  about "The Dolliver Romance".
Fuller, Margaret,
  Hawthorne's hard judgment of.

Gardner family, the.
Giddings family, the.
Goodrich, Samuel Griswold,
  "Peter Parley";
  his "Recollections," quoted;
  transactions with Hawthorne;
  Hawthorne's ungenerous view of.
Graham's Magazine,
  Hawthorne's contributions to.
Graves, William J.,
  his duel with Jonathan Cilley.
"Greenwood, Grace" (Sara Jane Lippincott),
  Hawthorne's comment on.
Griswold, Rufus Wilmot.

Hathorne, family stock of.
Hathorne, Daniel,
  of Revolutionary ballad fame.
Hathorne, Judge John,
  of witchcraft memory.
Hathorne, Joseph.
Hathorne, William, emigrant planter.
Hathorne, Nathaniel.
Hawthorne, Elizabeth;
  her mental resemblance to Nathaniel;
  quoted;
  "an invisible entity,".
Hawthorne, Julian;
  quoted.
Hawthorne, Louisa;
  letter from Nathaniel to, quoted;
  no recluse;
  letters to Nathaniel quoted;
  death of.
Hawthorne, Mrs., mother of Nathaniel;
  relations with her son;
  her solitary life;
  Elizabeth Peabody's description of;
  delight in her grandchildren;
  her home in Herbert Street;
  moves to Mall Street;
  death.
Hawthorne, Nathaniel
  parentage;
  date of birth;
  life at Raymond, Me;
  returns to Salem;
  early reading;
  preparation for college;
  letters to his sisters and mother;
  considers choice of profession;
  enters Bowdoin College;
  youthful characteristics;
  excels in Latin and English;
  narrow circumstances;
  early friendships;
  changes spelling of his name;
  aspirations;
  manner of life in Salem;
  a born Solitary;
  drifts into authorship;
  choice of subjects;
  literary ventures;
  yearly journeys;
  basis of imaginative work;
  discouragement;
  first substantial gains;
  a close observer;
  editor of American Magazine of
  Useful and Entertaining Knowledge;
  editorial difficulties;
  quarrels with Benjamin;
  his anonymity dispelled;
  Bridge guarantees publication of "Twice-Told Tales";
  Goodrich's services to;
  reception of "Twice-Told Tales";
  Pierce suggests South Sea Exploring Expedition;
  challenges a man to a duel;
  his solitude broken;
  meets Miss Sophia Peabody;
  is appointed weigher and gauger in Boston Custom House;
  bids farewell to Herbert Street;
  practical life wearies;
  his courtship;
  loses place in Boston Custom House;
  reasons for joining Brook Farm;
  life there;
  letter to Sophia Peabody;
  averse to literary society;
  barren years;
  marriage;
  Paradise in the Old Manse, Concord;
  Una's birth;
  straits for money;
  Bridge and Pierce assist;
  temperament and art analyzed;
  literary faculty;
  permanently influenced by Scott;
  prime qualities in his work;
  provincial note;
  primary element in genius;
  allegorizing temperament;
  vivid symbolism;
  his objectivity;
  a moralist;
  essentially an artist;
  capacity for idleness;
  his democracy;
  "obscurest man of letters in America,";
  made surveyor of the port of Salem;
  his feeling for Salem;
  as a government official;
  literary revenge;
  gossip concerning;
  imagination languishes;
  Julian born;
  home happiness;
  dismissed from office;
  his resentment;
  his susceptibility;
  applies to Hillard;
  his mother's death;
  visited by Fields;
  a bitter experience,
  letter to Hillard;
  finishes "Scarlet Letter";
  fame established;
  characteristics of his genius;
  stoicism;
  unsympathetic as an artist;
  farewell to Salem;
  family life in Berkshire;
  productive period;
  "House of the Seven Gables" written and published;
  power of realistic detail;
  marvelous art;
  no sympathy with reform;
  fatalistic trait;
  Rose born;
  delight in his children;
  his "spiritual sense of life";
  narrow intellectual interests;
  temporary residence in West Newton;
  "Blithedale Romance" written;
  purchases "The Wayside";
  objects to writing Pierce's "Life";
  friendship for Pierce;
  an unsparing critic;
  accepts Liverpool consulate;
  life at Liverpool;
  notable official action;
  his opinion of philanthropy;
  kindly received in England;
  good after-dinner speaker;
  alien in England;
  excursions;
  competence secured;
  resigns consulate;
  life in Italy;
  its influence;
  begins "Marble Faun";
  describes Villa Montaueto;
  Una's illness;
  leaves Rome and finishes "Marble Faun";
  height of his literary power;
  sensitive temperament;
  creative genius;
  defective technique;
  his fullest expression;
  returns to Concord;
  health fails;
  despairs of the Union;
  mental attitude in politics;
  last days;

Works.
  Alice Doane's Appeal;
  Ambitious Guest, The;
  American Note-Books;
  Ancestral Footstep, The;
  Artist of the Beautiful, The;
  Bald Eagle;
  Bells;
  Bell's Biography, A;
  Biographical stories, note;
  Birthmark, The;
  Buds and Bird Voices;
  Canterbury Pilgrims, The;
  Celestial Railroad, The, note;
  Chiefly about War Matters;
  Chippings with a Chisel;
  Christmas Banquet, The;
  Cilley, Jonathan;
  Custom House, The;
  David Swan;
  Devil in Manuscript, The;
  Diary, First, authenticity questioned, note;
  Dr. Grimshawe's Secret;
  Dolliver Romance, The;
  Dr. Heidegger's Experiment;
  Downer's Banner, The;
  Drowne's Wooden Image;
  Duston Family, The;
  Earth's Holocaust;
  Edward Fane's Rosebud;
  Edward Randolph's Portrait;
  Egotism, or the Bosom Serpent;
  Endicott and the Red Cross;
  Ethan Brand;
  Fancy's Show Box;
  Famous Old People;
  Fanshawe, note;
  Fessenden, Thomas Green;
  Fire Worship;
  Footprints on the Sea-Shore;
  Gentle Boy, The, note;
  Grandfather's Chair;
  Graves and Goblins;
  Gray Champion, The;
  Great Carbuncle, The;
  Great Stone Face, The;
  Hall of Fantasy, The;
  Haunted Mind, The;
  Haunted Quack, The;
  Hollow of the Three Hills, The;
  House of the Seven Gables, The;
  Howe's Masquerade;
  Intelligence Office, The;
  John Inglefield's Thanksgiving;
  Journal of a Solitary Man;
  Lady Eleanore's Mantle;
  Liberty Tree, The, note;
  Lily's Quest, The;
  Little Annie's Ramble;
  Little Daffydowndilly;
  Main Street;
  Man of Adamant, The;
  Marble Faun, The;
  Maypole of Merry Mount, The;
  Minister's Black Veil, The;
  Monsieur du Miroir;
  Mosses from an Old Manse note;
  Mr. Higginbotham's Catastrophe;
  Mrs. Bullfrog;
  My Uncle Molineaux;
  My Wife's Novel, attributed to Hawthorne;
  Nature of Sleep;
  New Adam and Eve, The;
  New England Village, The;
  Ontario Steamboat, An;
  Niagara, My Visit to;
  Old Apple Dealer, The;
  Old Esther Dudley, first story to
  bear Hawthorne's name;
  Old French War, The;
  Old Manse, The;
  Old News;
  Old Ticonderoga;
  Old Tory, The;
  Our Old Home note;
  Papers of an Old Dartmoor Prisoner;
  Passages from a Relinquished Work;
  Pepperell, Sir William;
  Peter Goldthwaite's Treasure;
  "Peter Parley's" Universal History, note;
  Pierce, Franklin, Life of;
  Procession of Life, The;
  Prophetic Pictures, The;
  Province House Series;
  Provincial Tales;
  P.'s Correspondence;
  Rappaccini's Daughter;
  Rill from the Town Pump, A;
  Roger Malvin's Burial;
  Scarlet Letter, The;
  Septimius Felton;
  Seven Tales of my Native Land;
  Seven Vagabonds, The;
  Shaker Bridal, The;
  Sights from a Steeple;
  Sister Years, The;
  Night Scenes under an Umbrella;
  Sketches from Memory;
  Snowflakes;
  Snow Image, The, note;
  Spectator, The, first essay in journalism;
  Story-Teller, The;
  Sunday at Home;
  Sylph Etheredge;
  Tanglewood Tales;
  Three-fold Destiny, The;
  Time's Portraiture;
  Toll Gatherer's Day, The;
  Twice-Told Tales, note;
  Veiled Lady, The;
  Village Uncle, The;
  Virtuoso's Collection, A;
  Vision of the Fountain, The;
  Visit to the Clerk of the Weather, A,
  never yet attributed to Hawthorne;
  Wakefield;
  Wedding Knell, The;
  White Old Maid, The;
  Wives of the Dead;
  Wonder-Book, A;
  Young Goodman Brown;
  Young Provincial, The, note.
Hawthorne, Mrs. Nathaniel. See
  Sophia Peabody.
Hawthorne, Rose,
  her sketch of Montaueto.
Hawthorne, Una,
  a beautiful child;
  illness at Rome.
Hillard, George S.,
  Hawthorne writes to;
  letter to Hawthorne.
Hoffman, Charles Fenno,
  his apt characterization of "Twice-Told Tales".
Holden's Dollar Magazine,
  "Ethan Brand" published in.
Holmes, Oliver Wendell.
Hosmer, Harriet,
Houghton, Lord (Richard Monckton Milnes).
House of the Seven Gables, The,
  analysis of;
  lax unity in;
  local realism of;
  suggestion of Dickens in;
  ancestral quality;
  ethical meaning in.
Howe, Dr. Samuel Gridley.

Ilbrahim.
International Magazine, The,
  "Snow Image" published in.
Irving, Washington,
  Hawthorne compared to.
Italy, Hawthorne's life in.

Jameson, Mrs. Anna.

Kemble, Fanny.
Knickerbocker Magazine, The,
  Hawthorne's contributions to.

Lander, Louisa.
Lathrop, George Parsons,
  his study of Hawthorne;
  quoted.
Liverpool.
Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth;
  recognizes college days in "Fanshawe,";
  Hawthorne's letter to;
  notices "Twice-Told Tales" in North American Review.
Long Wharf.
Lord family, the.
Loring, Dr. George B.,
  on Hawthorne's connection with Salem Custom House.

Maine Hall,
  at Bowdoin College.
Mann, Horace.
Manning, Elizabeth Clarke. See Mrs. Hawthorne.
Manning, Richard,
  of St. Petrox Parish.
Manning, Richard,
  Hawthorne's grandfather.
Manning, Richard,
  Hawthorne's uncle.
Manning, Robert;
  undertakes Hawthorne's education.
Manning, Samuel,
  Hawthorne travels with.
Manning, William,
  Hawthorne writes in office of.
"Manning's Folly".
Marble Faun, The;
  ethical weakness of;
  source of its interest;
  Puritan romance masquerading;
  analytic study of nature of evil.
Marsh and Capen, Boston,
  publish "Fanshawe" at Hawthorne's expense.
Mason, Alfred,
  Hawthorne's roommate in college.
Melville, Herman.
Montaueto, villa of,
  where Hawthorne began "Marble Faun".
Morituri Salutamus, Longfellow's.
Mosses from an Old Manse.
Motley, John Lothrop,
  Hawthorne's friendliness toward.

National Era,
  The "Great Stone Face" published in.
Navy Club.
Navy Yard, Charlestown.
New England;
  homes of;
  colonial tradition of;
  central fact in life of;
  the secret of.
New England Magazine, The,
  Hawthorne's contributions to, note;
  Hawthorne noticed in.
North American Review, The;
  Longfellow's notice of "Twice-Told Tales" in.
Note-Books, Hawthorne's,
  beginning of;
  quoted;
  his use of.

"Oberon," signature Hawthorne used
  in writing to Bridge;
  farewell to his eidolon.
Old Manse, the.
Oliver, Benjamin.
O'Sullivan, John,
  editor "Democratic Review,";
  U. S. minister at Lisbon.
Our Old Home; remorseless impressionism of, note.
Outre-Mer.

Peabody, Elizabeth, quoted;
  letters of Hawthorne to.
Peabody, Mary (Mrs. Horace Mann).
Peabody, Sophia;
  her love story;
  Hawthorne's letters to;
  recovers health and is married;
  "A New Adam and Eve";
  Hawthorne's devotion to;
  quoted;
  courage in ill-fortune;
  spends winter in Lisbon;
  English life interests;
  uncertain health;
  death of.
"Peter Parley." See Goodrich, S. G.
Peter Parley's Universal History on
  the basis of Geography, written
  by Nathaniel and Elizabeth Hawthorne.
Peucinian Society, at Bowdoin College.
Phelps family, the.
Pickering, John.
Pierce, Franklin
  early friendship for Hawthorne;
  interests himself in his fortunes;
  elected Senator from New Hampshire;
  advises change of scene for Hawthorne;
  his affection for;
  at Portsmouth Navy Yard;
  Hawthorne writes Life of;
  elected President of the United States,
  and appoints Hawthorne to Liverpool consulate;
  offers Hawthorne a post in American Legation at Lisbon;
  Hawthorne's love for;
  writes Bridge about Hawthorne's last days.
Pioneer, The,
  Hawthorne's contributions to.
Plymouth, N. H.,
  Hawthorne's death at.
Poe, Edgar Allan,
  Hawthorne's only rival in harmony of tone.
Polk, James K.
Portsmouth Navy Yard,
  political "naval picnic" at.
Potter family, the.
Powers, Hiram.

Raymond, Captain George.
Raymond, Maine,
  Hawthorne's boyhood home.
Rome, Hawthorne in.
Ropes, Joseph.

Salem;
  Hawthorne born at;
  Dr. Worcester's school in;
  Hawthorne's life in;
  much missed in;
  unappreciative "of its illustrious son";
  Hawthorne characterizes people of;
  Hawthorne's debt to.
Salem Athenaeum, The.
Salem Gazette, The,
  Hawthorne writes Carrier's Address for.
Salem Lyceum, Hawthorne an officer of.
Sargent, Epes.
Sargent, John Osborne.
Saturday Club, the.
Sawtelle, Cullen,
  a classmate of Hawthorne.
"Scarlet Letter, The";
  analysis of;
  genesis of;
  a study of punishment;
  reality of;
  parable of soul's life in sin;
  moral despair of.
Scott, Sir Walter, Hawthorne influenced by.
Sebago Lake, Maine.
Sedgwick, Catherine Maria.
Siena, Hawthorne's happy days at.
Sleepy Hollow, Concord, Hawthorne's burial place.
Southern Rose, The,
  Charleston, S. C., "The Lily's Quest" appeared in.
Spectator, The,
  Hawthorne's first essay in journalism.
Stoddard, Richard Henry.
Story, William Wetmore;
  Hawthorne's happy days with.

Thompson, Launt.
Thoreau, Henry D.
Ticknor, William D., sudden death of.
Token, The;
  Hawthorne's contributions to;
  Park Benjamin notices Hawthorne's articles in.
Tupper, Martin Farquhar,
  Hawthorne's visit to.
Tyler, John.

Upham, Charles W.

Verplanck, Gulian Crommelin. Very, Jones.

War, the Civil.
Wayside, The,
  Hawthorne's home in Concord.
Willis, Nathaniel Parker.
Worcester, Dr. Joseph Emerson,
  Hawthorne's first master.

Youth's Keepsake, The,
  Hawthorne's contributions to.