Tuesday, March 2nd.--Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY might be described as a pacificist who conducts
a persistent offensive. He accused the WAR MINISTER of having made a false statement about
Conscription in America, and later on made an allusion to General DENIKIN which Mr. CHURCHILL,
to the satisfaction of the House, which does not exactly love the Central Hullaballoonist,
described as "a singularly ill-conditioned sneer."

Lord WINTERTON, once the "baby" of the House, is still one of its most popular figures. Members
were quite interested as he proceeded to explain, with an engaging blush, that a "hard case"
which he had brought to the notice of the WAR MINISTER was his own, and sorry when the SPEAKER
brought the narrative to a sudden stop by observing, "This is not the moment for autobiography."

The FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS was roundly abused for having spent £3,250 on tapestry for
Hampton Court Palace. But when it turned out that the panel in question was the long-missing
number of a set belonging to Cardinal WOLSEY, and that its recovery was largely due to the
enterprise and munificence of the right hon. gentleman himself, the House agreed that his completion
of "Seven Deadly Sins" was a venial offence.

Other Estimates evoked more healthy criticism. Sir FREDERICK BANBURY was eloquent upon what
he called a "hotel for gardeners" at Kew. Mr. HOGGE was for rooting up the Royal Botanical
Gardens, since they were hardly ever visited by Scotsmen, and Captain STANLEY WILSON inveighed
against the extravagance with which the British delegates were housed in Paris. Sir ALFRED
MOND admitted that they "did themselves very well," but pleaded that they could hardly be expected
to go to Montmartre--at least not collectively--and pointed out that some of the criticisms
should be addressed to other Departments. He was not responsible, for example, for "clothes
of typists."

Wednesday, March 3rd.--Among the things that they do better in France, according to Lord SUDELEY,
is the popularisation of picture-galleries and museums. He instanced the pictures on French
match-boxes. But were they always confined to reproductions of Louvre masterpieces? My recollection
is that at one time they took a wider range and were distinctly more striking than the matches.

One was reminded of PRAED'S lines--

  "Hume, no doubt, will be taking the sense
  Of the House on a question of thirteen-pence"--

when the Government very nearly came to grief to-night over a question of five pounds for the
Inland Revenue offices in Manchester. In vain Mr. BALDWIN pointed out the desirability of giving
proper accommodation to the gentlemen who pick our pockets in the interest of the State. The
House was still obstinate, until Mr. BONAR LAW declared that the Government would resign if
they did not get their "fiver." As he undertook, however, not to spend it without further leave,
the vote at last went through.

Thursday, March 4th.--Lord BUCKMASTER'S scheme for preventing the bankruptcy of the State is
to make everybody invest a portion of his capital in Government securities and to withhold
the interest until such time as the State should find it convenient to pay. This, he explained
to his own satisfaction, was quite different from that dangerous expedient, a levy on capital.
Lord PEEL took a more cheerful view of the situation, and indicated that it was quite unnecessary
for noble lords to get the wind up, since the Government would have no difficulty in raising it.

Even the most rigid economists will not cavil at the latest addition to our financial burdens.
The PENSIONS MINISTER announced an addition of close on two millions a year to the annual charge.
The increase is chiefly for a much-needed improvement in the allowances made to disabled officers,
who have hitherto been but scurvily treated.

Mr. HIGHAM objected to receiving an answer about the telephones from Mr. PIKE PEASE. He demanded
a reply from the PRIME MINISTER, not from a representative of the department impugned. The
SPEAKER, however, pointed out that there were limits to the PREMIER'S responsibilities: "He
does not run the whole show." After this descent into the vernacular I half-expected that Mr.
LOWTHER would dam the stream of Supplementaries that followed with, "Oh, ring off!" but he
contented himself with calling the next Question.

The debate on the Third Reading of the War Emergency Laws (Continuance) Bill was chiefly devoted
to Ireland. Captain WEDGWOOD BENN, after spending a whole week in that country, is convinced
that all the trouble is due to the Government's reliance upon D.O.R.A., and declared that the
only people who were not in gaol were the murderers. That would mean that there are some four
million assassins in Ireland; which I feel sure is an exaggeration. The two hundred thousand
mentioned by the CHIEF SECRETARY would seem to be ample for any country save Russia.

Scarcely was this gloomy episode over than the House was called upon to pass a Supplementary
Estimate of £860 for "Peace Celebrations in Ireland." As £500 of this sum was for flags and
decorations, which, in Mr. BALDWIN'S phrase, "remain for future use," the Irish outlook may,
after all, be not quite so black as it is painted.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A BUY ELECTION.

    [The excellent precedent set by Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY in supplying needed
    goods at cheap rates may prove a little awkward if adopted by
    Parliamentary Candidates, as shown in the following anticipatory
    report.]

Quiet confidence reigned in the ranks of the Muddleboro Labour Party. The action of their Candidate,
Mr. Dulham, in arranging for a co-operative milk supply at sixpence per quart, was supposed
to have won the hearts of all householders. They had no fear of Mr. Coddem, the representative
of the great BOTTOMLEY party. It was true that Mr. Coddem had taken over a local brewery and
was supplying beer at threepence per pint. But the Labour stalwarts argued that, in the first
place, this would lose him the women's and temperance vote, and, in the second place, the electors
would drink the brewery dry in double-quick time. All those who failed to get cheap beer would
revenge themselves on the Candidate who had failed to keep his promise.

The Wee Free cause was nearly hopeless. Their candidate, Mr. Guff, had made a desperate bid
for popularity by offering, in conjunction with The Daily News, cocoa at reduced rates. But
the Labour Candidate had put the pointed question, "Who made cocoa dear in the first place?"
and Mr. Guff had evaded the question.

When Mr. Stilts, the National Party Candidate, promised the public cheaper honours--urging
that, if he were returned, it would be unnecessary to subscribe to party funds to get a title--the
voters were quite unmoved. Perhaps they knew that they could get the O.B.E. for nothing, anyhow,
and had no higher ambitions.

The Coalition Candidate, Mr. Jenkins, alone said nothing. The Star, that famous organ of the
Anti-Gambling Party, proclaimed triumphantly that the odds offered in the constituency were
ten to one against Jenkins. But Mr. Jenkins lay low and said nothing. Or rather he achieved
the not impossible feat in a Parliamentary contest of saying nothing and saying a good deal.

But the day before the poll Mr. Jenkins's polling cards were delivered. They were headed, "Vote
for Jenkins and Kill Profiteering. Give up this card at your polling-station for free samples
of silks in my great blouse offer. I sell for 9s. 11-3/4d. a blouse usually priced at two guineas.
Not more than six sold to any one voter. OUT SIZES NO EXTRA CHARGE."

A quarter-mile queue of lady-voters was standing outside the polling booths at eight o'clock.
Hundreds of them had their husbands in custody with them. In vain were representations of the
Full Milk Jug and the Flowing Pint Pot paraded before them. The Wee Free procession, headed
by a Brimming Cocoa Cup, was received with jeers.

When the poll was declared the figures ran--

  Jenkins (Coalition) ... 20,428
  Coddem (Bottomley) ... 9,344
  Dulham (Labour) ... 9,028
  Guff (Wee Free) ... 2,008
  Stilts (National Party) ... 49

And The Daily News' headline the next day was--

  "CORRUPT MINORITY CANDIDATE CARRIES MUDDLEBORO."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

From a poultry-breeder's advertisement:--

    "My strains of Rhodes are only too well known."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Miss Winnie ----, the charming and talented actress, writes:--'I am
    quite positive--I owe my present health and spirits to ----.'"--Advt.
    in Daily Paper.

    "Poor Miss Winnie ---- has had to retire suddenly from the revue--
    doctor's orders."--Same paper, same day.

We should have liked to hear the Advertisement Manager's view of the News Editor.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FREUD AND JUNG.

    [A reviewer in a recent issue of The Times Literary Supplement asks,
    "Why should the characters in the psychological novel be invariably
    horrid?" and is inclined to explain this state of affairs by the
    undiscriminating study of "the theories of two very estimable
    gentlemen, the sound of whose names one is beginning to dislike--
    Messrs. Freud and Jung."]

  In QUEEN VICTORIA'S placid reign, the novelists of note
  In one respect, at any rate, were all in the same boat;
  Alike in Richard Feverel and in Aurora Floyd
  You'll seek in vain for any trace of Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

  They did not fail in colour, for they had their PEACOCK'S tales;
  Their heroines, I must admit, ran seldom off the rails;
  They had their apes and angels, but they never once employed
  The psycho-analytic rules devised by JUNG and FREUD.

  They ran a tilt at fraud and guilt, at snobbery and shams;
  They had no lack of Meredithyrambic epigrams;
  The types that most appealed to them were not neurasthenoid;
  They lived, you see, before the day of Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

  (I've searched the last edition of the famous Ency. Brit.
  And neither of this noble pair is even named in it;
  Only the men since Nineteen-Ten have properly enjoyed
  The privilege of studying the works of JUNG and FREUD.)

  Their characters, I grieve to say, were never more unclean
  Than those of ordinary life, in morals or in mien;
  They had not slummed or fully plumbed with rapture unalloyed
  The unconscious mind as now defined by Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

  The spiritual shell-shock which these scientists impart
  Had not enlarged or cleared the dim horizons of their art;
  They had not learned that mutual love by wedlock is destroyed,
  As proved by the disciples of the school of JUNG and FREUD.

  The hierophants of pure romance, ev'n in its recent mood,
  From STEVENSON to CONRAD, such excesses have eschewed;
  But the psycho-pathologic route was neither mapped nor buoyed
  Until the new discoveries of Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

  That fiction should be tonic all may readily agree;
  That its function is emetic I, for one, could never see;
  And so I'm glad to find The Times Lit. Supp. has grown annoyed
  At the undiscriminating cult of Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

  Let earnest "educationists" assiduously preach
  The value of psychology in training those who teach;
  Let publicists who speak of Mr. GEORGE, without the LLOYD,
  Confound him with quotations from the works of JUNG and FREUD--

  But I, were I a despot, quite benevolent, of course,
  Armed with the last developments of high-explosive force,
  I'd build a bigger "Bertha," and discharge it in the void
  Crammed with the novelists who brood on Messrs. JUNG and FREUD.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATICS.

It has been suggested before now that Opera might be improved if the singing were done behind
the scenes and the performance on the stage were carried out in dumb show by competent actors
who looked their parts. But the idea that the movements on the stage would correspond with
the utterances off it is not encouraged by the present lack of collusion between singers and
orchestra--I refer to cases where a performer is required to simulate music on a dummy instrument.

This reflection was forced upon me at a recent performance of Tannhäuser. It is true that Miss
LILLIAN STANFORD as the Shepherd fingered her pipe in precise accord with the gentleman who
played the music for her. But Mr. MULLINGS, as Tannhäuser, took the greatest liberties with
his harp. He just slapped it whenever he liked, without any regard to the motions of his collaborator.
As for Mr. MICHAEL, who played Wolfram, he was content to fill in the vocal pauses with a little
suitable strumming; but when he sang he was so distracted by his own voice that he left his
harp to play the accompaniment without visible assistance from his hand.

For the fine performance which Mr. ALBERT COATES conducted I have no word but of praise, except
that I could have wished that Miss ELSA STRALIA had borne a closer resemblance to what is expected
of Elisabeth. She seemed to want to look as much as possible like Venus, whose very opposite
she should have been in type as in nature. Her colouring upset the whole scheme of contrast,
and one never began to believe in the sincerity of her spiritual ideals or that her death from
a broken heart was anything but an affectation.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LEONINE REVIVAL.

Amongst the dead lions of the past, some of us have prematurely reckoned those of Peterborough
Court. MATT. ARNOLD was supposed to have administered, if not the coup de grâce, at any rate
a serious blow to their gambollings in Friendship's Garland.

It is therefore a matter for unfeigned rejoicing to find that they are not only alive but rampant,
with all their old splendid command of polysyllabic periphrasis. One need only turn to the
notice of "The John Exhibition" in last Thursday's Daily Telegraph, from which we select the
following page:--

"It [the exhibition] is a display of purposeful portraiture that helps one to realise the effect
which Theotokopoulos produced upon his watchful contemporaries, and to understand why the Cretan
continued to walk alone on his way. If some insist on finding modern El Greco versions of Inspectors
and Inquisitors-general in this John gathering, compounded of comparatively innocuous personalities,
the privilege is, of course, permissible, and incidentally brightens conversation in irresponsible
circles."

But a higher level of full-throated bravura is attained later on:--

"If reiteration may also be the mark of the best portraiture, pace Lord Fisher, commendation
should be given to Mr. John for continuing to visualize the great seaman as Jupiter Tonans
flashing in gold lace."

How delightful it is, after the arid methods of the modern critics, bred up on BENEDETTO CROCE,
to hear the old authentic leonine ecstasy of SALA, "monarch of the florid quill!" Mr. Punch,
once hailed by the D.T. as "the Democritus of Fleet Street," on the strength of his "memorable
monosyllabic monition," in turn salutes the immortal protagonist of the purple polysyllable.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITCHCRAFT.

(A Mediæval Tragedy.)

"I want," said the maiden, glancing round her with tremulous distaste at the stuffed crocodile,
the black cat and the cauldron simmering on the hearth, "to see some of your complexion specialities."

"You want nothing of the kind," retorted the witch. "Why prevaricate? A maid with your colour
hath small need even of my triple extract of toads' livers. What you have really come for is
either a love-potion--" she paused and glanced keenly at her visitor--"or the means to avenge
love unrequited."

The maiden had flushed crimson. "I wish he were dead!" she whispered.

"Now you are talking. That wish is, of course, the simplest thing in the world to gratify,
if only you are prepared to pay for it. I presume Moddam would not desire anything too easy?"

"He had promised,", broke out the maiden uncontrollably, "to take me to the charity bear-baiting
matinée in aid of unemployed ex-Crusaders. The whole thing was arranged. And then at the last
moment--"

"Precisely as I had supposed. A case for one of our superior wax images, made to model, with
pins complete. Melted before a slow fire ensures the gradual wasting of the original with pangs
corresponding to the insertion of each pin."

The customer's fine eyes gleamed. "Give me one."

"I will sell you one," corrected the witch. "But I should warn you. They are not cheap."

"No matter."

"Good. I was about to observe that since our sovereign liege KING RICHARD granted peace to
the Saracen the cost both of material and labour hath so parlously risen that I am unable to
supply a really reliable article under fifty golden angels."

"I have them here."

"With special pins, of course, extra."

"Take what you will." The maiden flung down a leathern wallet that chinked pleasingly. The
witch, having transferred the contents of this to her own pocket, proceeded to fashion the
required charm, watched by her client with half-repelled eagerness.

"Hawk's eye, falcon's nose, raven's lock, peacock's clothes," chanted the crone, following
the words with her cunning fingers.

"How--how know you him?" Panic was in the voice.

The other laughed unpleasantly. "Doth not the whole district know the Lord Oeil-de-Veau by
reputation?" She held out the image. "Handle him carefully and use a fresh pin for each record."

The maid snatched it from her hands and was turning towards the door of the hut when a low
tap on its outer surface caused her to shrink back alarmed. The witch had again been watching
her with an ambiguous smile. "Should Moddam wish to avoid observation," she suggested, "the
side exit behind yonder curtain--" In an instant she was alone. Flinging the empty wallet into
the darkest corner the witch (not without sundry chuckles) slowly unbarred the entrance.

On the threshold stood a slim female figure enveloped in a cloak. "The love potion I had here
last week," began a timid voice, "seems hardly satisfactory. If you stock a stronger quality,
no matter how expensive--"

"Step inside," said the witch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some couple of months later the ladies of the house-party assembled at Sangazure Castle for
the Victory jousts were gathered in the great hall, exchanging gossip and serf-stories in the
firelight while awaiting the return of their menkind.

"Hath any heard," lisped one fair young thing, "how fareth the Lord Oeil-de-Veau? They tell
me that some mysterious ailment hath him in thrall."

At the words the Lady Yolande Sangazure (whom we have met before) was aware of a crimson flood
mounting swiftly to her exquisite temples. Strange to add, the same phenomenon might have been
observed in a score of damosels belonging to the best families in the district. The hall seemed
suffused in a ruddy glow that was certainly not reflected from the exiguous pile of post-Crusading
fuel smouldering on the great hearth.

"Tush!" broke in the cracked voice of a withered old dame, "your news is old. Not only hath
the so-called fever vanished but my lord himself hath followed it."

"Gone!" The cry was echoed by twenty voices; twenty embroidery-frames fell from forty arrested
hands, while nine-and-thirty dismayed eyes fixed themselves upon the maliciously-amused countenance
of the speaker. Only one, belonging to the Lady Beauregarde, who squinted slightly, remained
as though unmoved by the general commotion.

"Moreover," continued the old dame, "report saith that with him went his leman, who, having
some art in necromancy, transformed her beauty to the semblance of a witch and provided her
own dowry by the sale, to certain addle-pated wenches, of charms for which her lover himself
prepared the market."

"But--his fever?" an impetuous voice broke in.

"Cozening, no doubt. Of course the tale may be but idle babble; still, if true, one would admit
that such credulous fools got no more than they deserved."

She ceased, well satisfied. "I fancy," observed the Lady Yolande coldly, "that I hear our lords
returning." And in the eloquent silence a score of fair young minds slowly assimilated the
profound truth (as fresh to-day as eight hundred years ago) that Satan finds some mischief
still for the impecunious demobilised.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO JESSIE

    ("one of the Zoo's most popular elephants," now deceased).

  Jessie of the melting eye,
    Wreathed trunk and horny tegum-
  Ent, whom I have joyed to ply
  With the fugitive mince-pie
    And the seasonable legume,
  Youth has left me; fortune too
    Flounts my efforts to annex it;
  Still, I occupy the view,
  Bored but loath to leave, while you
    Make the inevitable exit.

  Ne'er again for blissful rides
    Shall our shouting offspring clamber
  Up your broad and beetling sides;
  Ne'er again, when eventide's
    Coming turns the skies to amber
  And the fluting blackbirds call,
    Poised above a bale of fodder
  In your well-appointed stall
  Will you muse upon it all,
    Patient introspective plodder.

  Once, an anxious mother's care,
    Day by day you roamed the jungle,
  Felt the sunshine, sniffed the air;
  Life, methinks, was passing fair;
    But of that no mortal tongue'll
  Tell. Perhaps you never thought
    If it bored you or enraptured
  Till the wily hunter caught
  You and all your friends and brought
    Home to England, bound and captured.

  Jessie, fairest of your race,
    Now you're gone and few will miss you;
  There will come to take your place
  Creatures less replete with grace;
    Elephants of grosser tissue
  Will intrigue the public sight;
    That, old girl, 's the common attitude.
  Still, these few poor lines I write
  May preserve your memory bright,
    Since the pen is dipped in gratitude.

  ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

