The weather was persistently bad this time, squally and disagreeable. On August 15th the Fairy,
with the Queen and Prince on board, sailed for Glasgow, still in pouring rain and a high wind.
The storm did not prevent the people from so lining the banks that the swell from the steamer
often broke upon them. Happily the weather cleared at last, and the day was fine when the landing-place
was reached. As usual, the Lord Provost came on board and received the honour of knighthood,
after he had presented one of the many addresses offered by the town, the county, the clergy
of all denominations, and the House of Commerce. The Queen landed, with the Prince and all
the children that had accompanied her. Sheriff Alison rode on one side of her carriage, the
general commanding the forces in Scotland on the other. The crowd was immense, numbering as
many as five hundred thousand men, women, and children. The Queen admired the streets, the
fine buildings, the quays, the churches. At the cathedral she was received by a man who seemed
as venerable as the building itself, Principal MacFarlane. He called her Majesty's attention
to what was then the highest chimney in the world, that of the chemical works of St. Rollax.
The inspection of the fine cathedral, which the old Protestants of the west protected instead
of pulling down, included the crypt. The travellers proceeded by railway to Stirling and Perth.

Early on the morning of the 15th the party started, the Queen having three of the children
in the carriage with herself and the Prince, on the long drive through beautiful Highland scenery
to Balmoral.

This year her Majesty made her first stay at Alt-na-guithasach, the hut or bothie of "old John
Gordon," the situation of which had taken her fancy and that of the Prince. They had another
hut built for themselves in the immediate vicinity, so that they could at any time spend a
day or a couple of days in the wilds, with a single lady-in- waiting and the most limited of
suites. On the 30th of August the Queen, the Prince, and the Honourable Caroline Dawson, maid
of honour, set out on their ponies, attended only by Macdonald, Grant, another Highlander,
and an English footman. The rough road had been improved, and riding was so easy that Prince
Albert could practise his Gaelic by the way.

The Queen was much pleased with her new possession, which meant "a charming little dining-room,
sitting-room, bedroom, and dressing-room all en suite; a little bedroom for Miss Dawson and
one for her maid, and a pantry." In the other hut were the kitchen where the Gordon family
sat, a room where the servants dined, a storeroom, and a loft where the men slept. All the
people in attendance on the small party were the Queen's maid, Miss Dawson's maid, Prince Albert's
German valet, a footman, and Macdonald, together with the old couple, John Gordon and his wife.
After luncheon the visitors went to Loch Muich--a name which has been interpreted "darkness"
or "sorrow"--and got into a large boat with four rowers, while a smaller boat followed, having
a net. The excursion was to the head of the loch, which joins the Dhu or Black Loch. "Real
severe Highland scenery," her Majesty calls it, and to those who know the stern sublimity of
such places, the words say a great deal. "The boat, the net, and the people in their kilts
in the water and on the shore," called for an artist's pencil. Seventy trouts were caught,
and several hawks were seen. The sailing was diversified by scrambling on shore. The return
in the evening was still more beautiful. At dinner the German valet and Macdonald, the Highland
forester, helped the footman to wait on the company. Whist, played with a dummy, and a walk
round the little garden, "where the silence and solitude, only interrupted by the waving of
the fir-trees, were very striking," ended the day.

