England bore you, and bore you not without a mother's pangs. For the real hour of your birth
wag the English Revolution of the seventeenth century, at once the saddest and the noblest
period of English history,--the noblest, whether we look to the greatness of the principles
at stake, or to the grandeur of the actors who fill the scene. This is not the official version
of your origin. The official version makes you the children of the revolutionary spirit which
was abroad in the eighteenth century and culminated in the French Revolution. But this robs
you of a century and a half of antiquity, and of more than a century and a half of greatness.
Since 1783 you have had a marvellous growth of population and of wealth,--things not to be
spoken of, as cynics have spoken of them, without thankfulness, since the added myriads have
been happy, and the wealth has flowed not to a few, but to all. But before 1783 you had founded,
under the name of an English Colony, a community emancipated from feudalism; you had abolished
here and doomed to general abolition hereditary aristocracy, and that which is the essential
basis of hereditary aristocracy, primogeniture in the inheritance of land. You had established,
though under the semblance of dependence on the English crown, a virtual sovereignty of the
people. You had created the system of common schools, in which the sovereignty of the people
has its only safe foundation. You had proclaimed, after some misgivings and backslidings, the
doctrine of liberty of conscience, and released the Church from her long bondage to the State.
All this you had achieved while you still were, and gloried in being, a colony of England.
You have done great things, since your quarrel with George III., for the world as well as for
yourselves. But for the world, perhaps, you had done greater things before.

In England the Revolution of the seventeenth century failed. It failed, at least, as an attempt
to establish social equality and liberty of conscience. The feudal past, with a feudal Europe
to support it, sat too heavy on us to be cast off. By a convulsive effort we broke loose, for
a moment, from the hereditary aristocracy and the hierarchy. For a moment we placed a popular
chief in power, though Cromwell was obliged by circumstances, as well as impelled by his own
ambition, to make himself a king. But when Cromwell died before his hour, all was over for
many a day with the party of religious freedom and of the people. The nation had gone a little
way out of the feudal and hierarchical Egypt; but the horrors of the unknown Wilderness, and
the memory of the flesh-pots, overpowered the hope of the Promised Land; and the people returned
to the rule of Pharaoh and his priests amidst the bonfires of the Restoration. Something had
been gained. Kings became more careful how they cut the subject's purse; bishops, how they
clipped the subject's ears. Instead of being carried by Laud to Rome, we remained Protestants
after a sort, though without liberty of conscience. Our Parliament, such as it was, with a
narrow franchise and rotten boroughs, retained its rights; and in time we secured the independence
of the judges and the integrity of an aristocratic law. But the great attempt had miscarried.
English society had made a supreme effort to escape from feudalism and the hierarchy into social
justice and religious freedom, and that effort had failed.

Failed in England, but succeeded here. The yoke which in the mother-country we had not strength
to throw off, in the colony we escaped; and here, beyond the reach of the Restoration, Milton's
vision proved true, and a free community was founded, though in a humble and unsuspected form,
which depended on the life of no single chief, and lived on when Cromwell died. Milton, when
the night of the Restoration closed on the brief and stormy day of his party, bated no jot
of hope. He was strong in that strength of conviction which assures spirits like his of the
future, however dark the present may appear. But, could he have beheld it, the morning, moving
westward in the track of the Puritan emigrants, had passed from his hemisphere only to shine
again in this with no fitful ray, but with a steady brightness which will one day reillumine
the feudal darkness of the Old World.

The Revolution failed in England. Yet in England the party of Cromwell and Milton still lives.
It still lives; and in this great crisis of your fortunes, its heart turns to you. On your
success ours depends. Now, as in the seventeenth century, the thread of our fate is twined
with the thread of yours. An English Liberal comes here, not only to watch the unfolding of
your destiny, but to read his own.

Even in the Revolution of 1776 Liberal England was on your side. Chatham was your spokesman,
as well as Patrick Henry. We, too, reckon Washington among our heroes. Perhaps there may have
been an excuse even for the King. The relation of dependence which you as well as he professed
to hold sacred, and which he was bound to maintain, had long become obsolete. It was time to
break the cord which held the child to its mother; and probably there were some on your side,
from the first, or nearly from the first, resolved to break it,--men instinct with the revolutionary
spirit, and bent on a Republic. All parties were in a false position; and they could find no
way out of it better than civil war. Good-will, not hatred, is the law of the world; and seldom
can history--even the history of the conqueror--look back on the results of war without regret.
England, scarcely guilty of the offence of her monarch, drank the cup of shame and disaster
to the dregs. That war ruined the French finances, which till then might have been retrieved,
past the hope of redemption, and precipitated the Revolution which hurled France through anarchy
into despotism, and sent Lafayette to a foreign dungeon, and his master to the block. You came
out victorious; but, from the violence of the rupture, you took a political bias not perhaps
entirely for good; and the necessity of the war blended you, under equivocal conditions, with
other colonies of a wholly different origin and character, which then "held persons to service,"
and are now your half-dethroned tyrant, the Slave Power. This Revolution will lead to a revision
of many things,--perhaps to a partial revision of your history. Meantime, let me repeat, England
counts Washington among her heroes.

And now as to the conduct of England towards you in this civil war. It is of want of sympathy,
if of anything, on our part, not of want of interest, that you have a right to complain. Never,
within my memory, have the hearts of Englishmen been so deeply moved by any foreign struggle
as by this civil war,--not even, if I recollect aright, by the great European earthquake of
1848. I doubt whether they were more moved by the Indian mutiny or by our war with Russia.
It seemed that history had brought round again the great crisis of the Thirty Years' War, when
all England throbbed with the mortal struggle waged between the powers of Liberty and Slavery
on their German battle-field; for expectation can scarcely have been more intense when Gustavus
and Tilly were approaching each other at Leipsic than it was when Meade and Lee were approaching
each other at Gettysburg. Severed from us by the Atlantic, while other nations are at our door,
you are still nearer to us than all the world beside.

It is of want of sympathy, not of want of interest, that you have to complain. And the sympathy
which has been withheld is not that of the whole nation, but that of certain classes, chiefly
of the class against whose political interest you are fighting, and to whom your victory brings
eventual defeat. The real origin of your nation is the key to the present relations between
you and the different parties in England. This is the old battle waged again on a new field.
We will not talk too much of Puritans and Cavaliers. The soldiers of the Union are not Puritans,
neither are the planters Cavaliers, But the present civil war is a vast episode in the same
irrepressible conflict between Aristocracy and Democracy; and the heirs of the Cavalier in
England sympathize with your enemies, the heirs of the Puritan with you.

The feeling of our aristocracy, as of all aristocracies, is against you. It does not follow,
nor do I believe, that as a body they would desire or urge their Government to do you a wrong,
whatever spirit may be shown by a few of the less honorable or more violent members of their
order. With all their class sentiments, they are Englishmen, trained to walk in the paths of
English policy and justice. But that their feelings should be against you is not strange. You
are fighting, not for the restoration of the Union, not for the emancipation of the negro,
but for Democracy against Aristocracy; and this fact is thoroughly understood by both parties
throughout the Old World. As the champions of Democracy, you may claim, and you receive, the
sympathy of the Democratic party in England and in Europe; that of the Aristocratic party you
cannot claim. You must bear it calmly, if the aristocracies mourn over your victories and triumph
over your defeats. Do the friends of Democracy conceal their joy when a despotism or an oligarchy
bites the dust?

The members of our aristocracy bear you no personal hatred. An American going among them even
now meets with nothing but personal courtesy and kindness. Under ordinary circumstances they
are not indifferent to your good-will, nor unconscious of the tie of blood. But to ask them
entirely to forget their order would be too much. In the success of a commonwealth founded
on social and political equality all aristocracies must read their doom. Not by arms, but by
example, you are a standing menace to the existence of political privilege. And the thread
of that existence is frail. Feudal antiquity holds life by a precarious tenure amidst the revolutionary
tendencies of this modern world. It has gone hard with the aristocracies throughout Europe
of late years, though the French Emperor, as the head of the Reaction, may create a mock nobility
round his upstart throne. The Roman aristocracy was an aristocracy of arms and law. The feudal
aristocracy of the Middle Ages was an aristocracy of arms and in some measure of law; it served
the cause of political progress in its hour and after its kind; it confronted tyrannical kings
when the people were as yet too weak to confront them; it conquered at Runnymede, as well as
at Hastings. But the aristocracies of modern Europe are aristocracies neither of arms nor of
law. They are aristocracies of social and political privilege alone. They owe, and are half
conscious that they owe, their present existence only to factitious weaknesses of human nature,
and to the antiquated terrors of communities long kept in leading-strings and afraid to walk
alone. If there were nothing but reason to dispel them, these fears might long retain their
sway over European society. But the example of a great commonwealth flourishing here without
a privileged class, and of a popular sovereignty combining order with progress, tends, however
remotely, to break the spell. Therefore, as a class, the English nobility cannot desire the
success of your Republic. Some of the order there are who have hearts above their coronets,
as there are some kings who have hearts above their crowns, and who in this great crisis of
humanity forget that they are noblemen, and remember that they are men. But the order, as a
whole, has been against you, and has swayed in the same direction all who were closely connected
with it or dependent on it. It could not fail to be against you, if it was for itself. Be charitable
to the instinct of self-preservation. It is strong, sometimes violent, in us all.

In truth, it is rather against the Liberals of England than against you that the feeling of
our aristocracy is directed. Liberal leaders have made your name odious by pointing to your
institutions as the condemnation of our own. They did this too indiscriminately perhaps, while
in one respect your institutions were far below our own, inasmuch as you were a slaveholding
nation. "Look," they were always saying, "at the Model Republic,--behold its unbroken prosperity,
the harmony of its people under the system of universal suffrage, the lightness of its taxation,--behold,
above all, its immunity from war!" All this is now turned upon us as a taunt; but the taunt
implies rather a sense of escape on the part of those who utter it than malignity, and the
answer to it is victory.

What has been said of our territorial aristocracy may be said of our commercial aristocracy,
which is fast blending with the territorial into a government of wealth. This again is nothing
new. History can point to more cases than one in which the sympathies of rich men have been
regulated by their riches. The Money Power has been cold to your cause throughout Europe,--perhaps
even here. In all countries great capitalists are apt to desire that the laborer should be
docile and contented, that popular education should not be carried dangerously high, that the
right relations between capital and labor should be maintained. The bold doctrines of the slave-owner
as to "free labor and free schools" may not be accepted in their full strength; yet they touch
a secret chord. But we have friends of the better cause among our English capitalists as well
as among our English peers. The names of Mr. Baring and Mr. Thomas Bayley Potter are not unknown
here. The course taken by such men at this crisis is an earnest of the essential unity of interest
which underlies all class-divisions,--which, in our onward progress toward the attainment of
a real community, will survive all class-distinctions, and terminate the conflict between capital
and labor, not by making the laborer the slave of the capitalist, nor the capitalist the slave
of the laborer, but by establishing between them mutual good-will, founded on intelligence
and justice.

And let the upper classes of England have their due. The Lancashire operatives have been upon
the other side; yet not the less have they received ready and generous help in their distress
from all ranks and orders in the land.

It would be most unworthy of a student of history to preach vulgar hatred of an historic aristocracy.
The aristocracy of England has been great in its hour, probably beneficent, perhaps indispensable
to the progress of our nation, and so to the foundation of yours. Do you wish for your revenge
upon it? The road to that revenge is sure. Succeed in your great experiment. Show by your example,
by your moderation and self-control through this war and after its close, that it is possible
for communities, duly educated, to govern themselves without the control of an hereditary order.
The progress of opinion in England will in time do the rest. War, forced by you upon the English
nation, would only strengthen the worst part of the English aristocracy in the worst way, by
bringing our people into collision with a Democracy, and by giving the ascendancy, as all wars
not carried on for a distinct moral object do, to military passions over political aspirations.
Our war with the French Republic threw back our internal reforms, which till then had been
advancing, for a whole generation. Even the pockets of our land-owners would not suffer, but
gain, by the war; for their rents would be raised by the exclusion of your corn, and the price
of labor would be lowered by the stoppage of emigration. The suffering would fall, as usual,
on the people.

The gradual effect of your example may enable European society finally to emerge from feudalism,
in a peaceful way, without violent revolutions. Every one who has studied history must regard
violent revolutions with abhorrence. A European Liberal ought to be less inclined to them than
ever, when he has seen America, and received from the sight, as I think he may, a complete
assurance of the future.

I have spoken of our commercial aristocracy generally. Liverpool demands word by itself. It
is the stronghold of the Southern party in England: from it hostile acts have proceeded, while
from other quarters there have proceeded only hostile words. There are in Liverpool men who
do honor to the name of British merchant; but the city as a whole is not the one among all
our commercial cities in which moral chivalry is most likely to be found. In Manchester, cotton-spinning
though it be, there is much that is great,--a love of Art, displayed in public exhibitions,--a
keen interest in great political and social questions,--literature,--even religious thought,--something
of that high aspiring spirit which made commerce noble in the old English merchant, in the
Venetian and the Florentine. In Liverpool trade reigns supreme, and its behests, whatever they
may be, are pretty sure to be eagerly obeyed. And the source of this is to be found, perhaps,
partly in the fact that Liverpool is an old centre of the Slavery interest in England, one
of the cities which have been built with the blood of the slave. As the great cotton port,
it is closely connected with the planters by trade,--perhaps also by many personal ties and
associations. It is not so much an English city as an offset and outpost of the South, and
a counterpart to the offsets and outposts of the South in some of your great commercial cities
here. No doubt, the shame of Liverpool Alabamas falls on England. England must own that she
has produced merchants who disgrace their calling, contaminated by intercourse with the slave-owner,
regardless of the honor and interest of their country, ready to plunge two kindred nations
into a desolating war, if they can only secure the profits of their own trade. England must
own that she has produced such men; but does this disgrace attach to her alone?

The clergy of the State Church, like the aristocracy, have probably been as a body against
you in this struggle. In their case too, not hatred of America, but the love of their own institution,
is the cause. If you are a standing menace to aristocracies, you are equally a standing menace
to State Churches. A State Church rests upon the assumption that religion would fall, if it
were not supported by the State. On this ground it is that the European nations endure the
startling anomalies of their State Churches,--the interference of irreligious politicians in
religion, the worldliness of ambitious ecclesiastics, the denial of liberty of conscience,
the denial of truth. Therefore it is that they will see the canker of doubt slowly eating into
faith beneath the outward uniformity of a political Church, rather than risk a change, which,
as they are taught to believe, would bring faith to a sudden end. But the success of the voluntary
system here is overthrowing this assumption. Shall I believe that Christianity deprived of
State support must fall, when I see it without State support not only standing, but advancing
with the settler into the remotest West? Will the laity of Europe long remain under their illusion
in face of this great fact? Already the State Churches of Europe are placed in imminent peril
by the controversies which, since religious life has reawakened among us, rend them from within,
and by their manifest inability to satisfy the craving of society for new assurance of its
faith. I cannot much blame the High-Church bishop who goes to Lord Palmerston to ask for intervention
in company with Lord Clanricarde and Mr. Spence. You express surprise that the son of Wilberforce
is not with you; but Wilberforce was not, like his son, a bishop of the State Church. Never
in the whole course of history has the old order of things yielded without a murmur to the
new. You share the fate of all innovators: your innovations are not received with favor by
the powers which they threaten ultimately to sweep away.

To come from our aristocracy and landed gentry to our middle class. We subdivide the middle
class into upper and lower. The upper middle class, comprising the wealthier tradesmen, forms
a sort of minor aristocracy in itself, with a good deal of aristocratic feeling towards those
beneath it. It is not well educated, for it will not go to the common schools, and it has few
good private schools of its own; consequently, it does not think deeply on great political
questions. It is at present very wealthy; and wealth, as you know, does not always produce
high moral sentiment. It is not above a desire to be on the genteel side. It is not free from
the worship of Aristocracy. That worship is rooted in the lower part of our common nature.
Is fibres extend beyond the soil of England, beyond the soil of Europe. America has been much
belied, if she is entirely free from this evil, if there are not here also men careful of class-distinctions,
of a place in fashionable society, of factitious rank which parodies the aristocracy of the
Old World. There is in the Anglo-Saxon character a strange mixture of independence and servility.
In that long course of concessions by which your politicians strove--happily for the world
and for yourselves they strove in vain--to conciliate the slave owning aristocracy of the South,
did not something of social servility mingle with political fear?

In the lower middle class religious Non-Conformity prevails; and the Free Churches of our Non-Conformists
are united by a strong bond of sympathy with the Churches under the voluntary system here.
They are perfectly stanch on the subject of Slavery, and so far as this war has been a struggle
against that institution, it may, I think, be confidently said that the hearts of this great
section of our people have been upon your side. Our Non-Conformist ministers came forward,
as you are aware, in large numbers, to join with the ministers of Protestant Churches on the
Continent in an Anti-Slavery address to your Government and people.

And as to the middle classes generally, upper or lower, I see no reason to think that they
are wanting in good-will to this country, much less that they desire that any calamity should
befall it. The journals which I take to be the chief organs of the upper middle class, if they
have not been friendly, have been hostile not so much to the American people as to the war.
And in justice to all classes of Englishmen, it must be remembered that hatred of the war is
not hatred of the American people. No one hated the war at its commencement more heartily than
I did. I hated it more heartily than ever after Bull Run, when, by the accounts which reached
England, the character of this nation seemed to have completely broken down. I believed as
fully as any one, that the task which you had undertaken was hopeless, and that you were rushing
on your ruin. I dreaded the effect on your Constitution, fearing, as others did, that civil
war would bring you to anarchy, and anarchy to military despotism. All historical precedents
conspired to lead me to this belief. I did not know--for there was no example to teach me--the
power of a really united people, the adamantine strength of institutions which were truly free.
Watching the course of events with an open mind, and a deep interest, such as men at a distance
can seldom be brought to feel, in the fortunes of this country, I soon revised my opinion.
Yet, many times I desponded, and wished with all my heart that you would save the Border States,
if you could, and let the rest go. Numbers of Englishmen,--Englishmen of all classes and parties,--who
thought as I did at the outset, remain rooted in this opinion. They still sincerely believe
that this is a hopeless war, which can lead to nothing but waste of blood, subversion of your
laws and liberties, and the destruction of your own prosperity and that of the nations whose
interests are bound up with yours. This belief they maintain with as little of ill-feeling
towards you as men can have towards those who obstinately disregard their advice. And, after
all, though you may have found the wisest as well as the bravest counsellors in your own hearts,
he need not be your enemy who somewhat timidly counsels you against civil war. Civil war is
a terrible thing,--terrible in the passions which it kindles, as well as in the blood which
it sheds,--terrible in its present effects, and terrible in those which it leaves behind. It
can be justified only by the complete victory of the good cause. And Englishmen, at the commencement
of this civil war, if they were wrong in thinking the victory of the good cause hopeless, were
not wrong in thinking it remote. They were not wrong in thinking it far more remote than you
did. Years of struggle, of fear, of agony, of desolated homes, have passed since your statesmen
declared that a few months would bring the Rebellion to an end. In justice to our people, put
the question to yourselves,--if at the outset the veil which hid the future could have been
withdrawn, and the conflict which really awaited you, with all its vicissitudes, its disasters,
its dangers, its sacrifices, could have been revealed to your view, would you have gone into
the war? To us, looking with anxious, but less impassioned eyes, the veil was half withdrawn,
and we shrank back from the prospect which was revealed. It was well for the world, perhaps,
that you were blind; but it was pardonable in us to see.

We now come to the working-men of England, the main body of our people, whose sympathy you
would not the less prize, and whom you would not the less shrink from assailing without a cause,
because at present the greater part of them are without political power,--at least of a direct
kind. I will not speak of the opinions of our peasantry, for they have none. Their thoughts
are never turned to a political question. They never read a newspaper. They are absorbed in
the struggle for daily bread, of which they have barely enough for themselves and their children.
Their condition, in spite of all the benevolent effort that is abroad among us, is the great
blot of our social system. Perhaps, if the relation between the two countries remains kindly,
the door of hope may be opened to them here; and hands now folded helplessly in English poor-houses
may joyfully reap the harvests of Iowa and Wisconsin. Assuredly, they bear you no ill-will.
If they could comprehend the meaning of this struggle, their hearts as well as their interests
would be upon your side. But it is not in them, it is in the working-men of our cities, that
the intelligence of the class resides. And the sympathy of the working-men of our cities, from
the moment when the great issue between Free Labor and Slavery was fairly set before them,
has been shown in no doubtful form. They have followed your wavering fortunes with eyes almost
as keen and hearts almost as anxious as your own. They have thronged the meetings held by the
Union and Emancipation Societies of London and Manchester to protest before the nation in favor
of your cause. Early in the contest they filled to overflowing Exeter Hall, the largest place
of meeting in London. I was present at another immense meeting of them, held by their Trades
Unions in London, where they were addressed by Mr. Bright; and had you witnessed the intelligence
and enthusiasm with which they followed the exposition of your case by their great orator,
you would have known that you were not without sympathy in England,--not without sympathy such
as those who look rather to the worth of a friend than to his rank may most dearly prize. Again
I was present at a great meeting called in the Free-Trade Hall at Manchester to protest against
the attacks upon your commerce, and saw the same enthusiasm displayed by the working-men of
the North. But Mr. Ward Beecher must have brought back with him abundant assurance of the feelings
of our working-men. Our opponents have tried to rival us in these demonstrations. They have
tried with great resources of personal influence and wealth. But, in spite of their personal
influence and the distress caused by the cotton famine, they have on the whole signally failed.
Their consolation has been to call the friends of the Federal cause obscurities and nobodies.
And true it is that the friends of the Federal cause are obscurities and nobodies. They are
the untitled and undistinguished mass of the English people.

The leaders of our working-men, the popular chiefs of the day, the men who represent the feelings
and interests of the masses, and whose names are received with ringing cheers wherever the
masses are assembled, are Cobden and Bright. And Cobden and Bright have not left you in doubt
of the fact that they and all they represent are on your side.

I need not say,--for you have shown that you know it well,--that, as regards the working-men
of our cotton-factories, this sympathy was an offering to your cause as costly as it was sincere.
Your civil war paralyzed their industry, brought ruin into their houses, deprived them and
their families not only of bread, but, so far as their vision extended, of the hope of bread.
Yet they have not wavered in their allegiance to the Right. Your slave-owning aristocracy had
made up their minds that chivalry was confined to aristocracies, and that over the vulgar souls
of the common people Cotton must be King. The working-man of Manchester, though he lives not
like a Southern gentleman by the sweat of another's brow, but like a plebeian by the sweat
of his own, has shown that chivalry is not confined to aristocracies, and that even over vulgar
souls Cotton is not always King. I heard one of your statesmen the other day, after speaking
indignantly of those who had fitted out the Alabama, pray God to bless the working-men of England.
Our nation, like yours, is not a single body animated by the same political sentiments, but
a mixed mass of contending interests and parties. Beware how you fire into that mass, or your
shot may strike a friend.

When England in the mass is spoken of as your enemy on this occasion, the London "Times" is
taken for the voice of the country. The "Times" was in former days a great popular organ. It
led vehemently and even violently the struggle for Parliamentary Reform. In that way it made
its fortune; and having made its fortune, it takes part with the rich. Its proprietor in those
days was a man with many faults, but he was a man of the people. Aristocratic society disliked
and excluded him; he lived at war with it to the end. Affronted by the Whigs, he became in
a certain sense a Tory; but he united his Toryism with Chartism, and was sent to Parliament
for Nottingham by Tories and Chartists combined. The opposition of his journal to our New Poor-Law
evinced, though in a perverse way, his feeling for the people. But his heir, the present proprietor,
was born in the purple. He is a wealthy landed gentleman. He sits in Parliament for a constituency
of landlords. He is thought to have been marked out for a peerage. It is accusing him of no
crime to suppose, that, so far as he controls the "Times," it takes the bias of his class,
and that its voice, if it speaks his sentiments, is not that of the English people, but of
a rich conservative squire.

The editor is distinct from the proprietor, but his connections are perhaps still more aristocratic.
A good deal has been said among us of late about his position. Before his time our journalism
was not only anonymous, but impersonal. The journalist wore the mask not only to those whom
he criticized, but to all the world. The present editor of the "Times" wears the mask to the
objects of his criticism, but drops it, as has been remarked in Parliament, in "the gilded
saloons" of rank and power. Not content to remain in the privacy which protected the independence
of his predecessors, he has come forth in his own person to receive the homage of the great
world. That homage has been paid in no stinted measure, and, as the British public has been
apprised in rather a startling manner, with a somewhat intoxicating effect. The lords of the
Money Power, the thrones and dominions of Usury, have shown themselves as assiduous as ministers
and peers; and these potentates happen, like the aristocracy, to be unfriendly to your cause.
Caressed by peers and millionnaires, the editor of the "Times" could hardly fail to express
the feelings of peers and millionnaires towards a Republic in distress. We may be permitted
to think that he has rather overacted his part. English peers, after all, are English gentlemen;
and no English gentleman would deliberately sanction the torrent of calumny and insult which
the "Times" has poured upon this nation. There are penalties for common offenders: there are
none for those who scatter firebrands among nations. But the "Times" will not come off unscathed.
It must veer with victory. And its readers will be not only prejudiced, but idiotic, if it
does not in the process leave the last remnant of its authority behind.

Two things will suffice to mark the real political position of the "Times." You saw that a
personal controversy was going on the other day between its editor and Mr. Cobden. That controversy
arose out of a speech made by Mr. Bright, obliquely impugning the aristocratic law of inheritance,
which is fast accumulating the land of England in a few hands, and disinheriting the English
people of the English soil. For this offence Mr. Bright was assailed by the "Times" with calumnies
so outrageous that Mr. Cobden could not help springing forward to vindicate his friend. The
institution which the "Times" so fiercely defended on this occasion against a look which threatened
it with alteration is vital and sacred in the eyes of the aristocracy, but is not vital or
sacred in the eyes of the whole English nation. Again, the "Times" hates Garibaldi; and its
hatred, generally half smothered, broke out in a loud cry of exultation when the hero fell,
as it hoped forever, at Aspromonte. But the English people idolize Garibaldi, and receive him
with a burst of enthusiasm unexampled in fervor. The English people love Garibaldi, and Garibaldi's
name is equally dear to all American hearts. Is not this--let me ask in passing--a proof that
there is a bond of sympathy, after all, between the English people and you, and that, if as
a nation we are divided from you, it is not by a radical estrangement, but by some cloud of
error which will in time pass away?

The wealth of the "Times," the high position which it has held since the period when it was
the great Liberal journal, the clever writing and the early intelligence which its money and
its secret connections with public men enable it to command, give it a circulation and an influence
beyond the class whose interests it represents. But it has been thrust from a large part of
its dominion by the cheap London and local press. It is exceeded in circulation more than twofold
by the London "Telegraph," a journal which, though it has been against the war, has, I think,
by no means shown in its leading articles the same spirit of hostility to the American people.
The London "Star," which is strongly Federal, is also a journal of wide circulation. The "Daily
News" is a high-priced paper, circulating among the same class as the "Times"; its circulation
is comparatively small, but it is on the increase, and the journal, I have reason to believe,
is prosperous. The Manchester "Examiner and Times," again,--a great local paper of the North
of England,--nearly equals the London "Times" in circulation, and is favorable to your cause.
I live under the dominion of the London "Times," and I will not deny that it is a great power
of evil. It will be a great power of evil indeed, if it succeeds in producing a fatal estrangement
between two kindred nations. But no one who knows England, especially the northern part of
England, in which Liberalism prevails, would imagine the voice of the "Times" to be that of
the English people.

Of the part taken by the writers of England it would be rash to speak in general terms, Stuart
Mill and Cairns have supported your cause as heartily as Cobden and Bright. I am not aware
that any political or economical writer of equal eminence has taken the other side. The leading
reviews and periodicals have exhibited, as might have been expected, very various shades of
opinion; but, with the exception of the known organs of violent Toryism, they have certainly
not breathed hatred of this nation. In those which specially represent our rising intellect,
the intellect which will probably govern us ten years hence, I should say the preponderance
of the writing had been on the Federal side. In the University of Oxford the sympathies of
the High-Church clergy and of the young Tory gentry are with the South; but there is a good
deal of Northern sentiment among the young fellows of our more liberal colleges, and generally
in the more active minds. At the University Debating Club, when the question between the North
and the South was debated, the vote, though I believe in a thin house, was in favor of the
North. Four Professors are members of the Union and Emancipation Society. And if intellect
generally has been somewhat coldly critical, I am not sure that it has departed from its true
function. I am conscious myself that I may be somewhat under the dominion of my feelings, that
I may be even something of a fanatic in this matter. There may be evil as well as good in the
cause which, as the good preponderates, claims and receives the allegiance of my heart. In
that case, intellect, in pointing out the evil, only does its duty.

