Mrs. Arthur Bronson, than whom Mr. Browning never had a more sympathetic and all-comprehending
friend, said that if she tried to recall Robert Browning's words it was as though she had talked
to a being apart from other men. "My feeling may seem exaggerated," she smiled, "but it was
only natural, when considering my vivid sense of his moral and intellectual greatness. His
talk was not abstruse and intricate, like some of his writings. Far from it. As a rule he seemed
rather to avoid deep and serious subjects. There was no loss, for everything he chose to say
was well said. A familiar story, grave or gay, when clothed with his words, and accentuated
by his expressive gestures and the mobility of his countenance, had all the charm of novelty;
while a comic anecdote from his lips sparkled with wit, born of his own keen sense of humor.
I found in him that most rare combination of a powerful personality united to a nature tenderly
sympathetic."

Another who knew him well perpetrated the mot that "Tennyson hides behind his laurels, and
Browning behind the man of the world." Henry James, whose gift of subtle analysis was never
more felicitously revealed than in his expressions about Browning, declared that the poet had
two personalities: one, the man of the world, who walked abroad, talked, did his duty; the
other, the Poet,--"an inscrutable personage,--who sat at home and knew, as well he might, in
what quarters of that sphere to look for suitable company. The poet and the man of the world
were disassociated in him as they can rarely elsewhere have been."

For three or four summers after this sojourn in Scotland the Brownings were at St. Aubin, in
Brittany, where they had a cottage "not two steps away" from that of his friend Milsand. In
the early mornings Browning would be seen pacing the sands, reading from his little Greek copy
of Homer; and in the late afternoons the two friends would stroll on the Normandy beach with
their arms around each other's shoulders. They are described as very different in appearance,--Browning
vigorous and buoyant, Milsand nervous, thin, reserved,--but akin in a certain delicate sensitiveness,
a swift susceptibility to impressions. Of Browning Milsand said that what he really valued
most was his kindness, his simple, open, radiant goodness. "All the chords of sympathy vibrated
in his strong voice," added Milsand. The French critic was very fond of the poet's son, and
in reference to him he once said: "The father has reason to be happy that in walking before
he has opened a path for his son, instead of making him stumble." As has been seen, in Mrs.
Browning's letters, she always shared her husband's enthusiasm for Milsand, and the latter
had said that he felt in her "that shining superiority always concealing itself under her unconscious
goodness and lovely simplicity."

On Sundays at St. Aubin's, Browning frequently accompanied Milsand to the little chapel of
Château-Blagny, for Protestant worshipers. From his cottage Browning could gaze across the
bay to the lighthouse at Havre, and he "saw with a thrill" the spot where he once passed a
summer with his wife.

Italian recollections sometimes rose before his inner vision. To Isa Blagden, who had gone
to Siena, he wrote that he could "see the fig-tree under which Ba sat, reading and writing,
poor old Landor's oak opposite."

Of Milsand he wrote to a friend: "I never knew or shall know his like among men," and to Milsand,
who had assisted him in some proof-reading, he wrote acknowledging his "invaluable assistance,"
and said:

    "The fact is, in the case of a writer with my peculiarities and
    habits, somebody quite ignorant of what I may have meant to write, and
    only occupied with what is really written, ought to supervise the
    thing produced. I won't attempt to thank you, dearest friend.... The
    poem will reach you in about a fortnight. I look forward with all
    confidence and such delight to finding us all together again in the
    autumn. All love to your wife and daughter. R. B."

Milsand, writing of Browning in the Revue, revealed his high appreciation of the poet when
he said: "Browning suggests a power even greater than his achievement. He speaks like a spirit
who is able to do that which to past centuries has been almost impossible."

It was St. Aubin that furnished Browning with material for his poem, "Red Cotton Night-cap
Country," the title of which was suggested by Miss Thackeray (now Lady Ritchie) who had a cottage
there one summer, near those of Browning and Milsand. Browning and his sister occupied one
of the most primitive of cottages, but the location was beautiful, perched on the cliff of
St. Aubin, and commanded a changeful panorama of sea and sky. "The sitting-room door opened
to the garden and the sea beyond--a fresh-swept bare floor, a table, three straw chairs, one
book upon the table,--the only book he had with him. The bedrooms were as bare as the sitting-room,
but there was a little dumb piano standing in a corner, on which he used to practice in the
early morning. Mr. Browning declared they were perfectly satisfied with their little house;
that his brains, squeezed as dry as a sponge, were only ready for fresh air."[12] As all Browning
readers will remember, "Red Cotton Night-cap Country" is dedicated to Miss Thackeray.

In the succeeding autumn Browning passed some weeks at Fontainebleau, where he was absorbed
in reading Æschylus, and in making an especial study of the great dramatist. It was perhaps
at this time that he conceived the idea of translating the Agamemnon, which, he says in his
preface, "was commanded of me by my venerated friend Thomas Carlyle, and rewarded it will be
if I am permitted to dignify it by the prefatory insertion of his dear and noble name."

Before the close of this year Browning had also complied with a request from Tauchnitz to prepare
for publication a selection from the poems of Mrs. Browning. This Tauchnitz Edition of Mrs.
Browning will always retain its interest as representing her husband's favorites among her
poems. "The Rhyme of the Duchess May," with its artistic symmetry and exquisite execution,
was of course included. This poem may be said to exhibit all Mrs. Browning's poetic characteristics.

Encouraged by Millais, Robert Barrett Browning had seriously entered on the study of painting,
his first master being M. Heyermans in Antwerp. In 1875 Frederick Lehmann had expressed high
appreciation of a work of the young artist, the study of a monk absorbed in reading a book,--a
picture that he liked so well as subsequently to purchase it. Another picture by Barrett Browning
was entitled "The Armorer," and found a place in the Royal Academy of that year, and was purchased
by a Member of Parliament who was also something of a connoisseur in art. In this season was
inaugurated the annual "private view" of the paintings of the poet's son, which were exhibited
in a house in Queen's Gate Gardens and attracted much attention. In his son's success Browning
took great pride and pleasure. On the sale of the picture to the M. P., Browning wrote to Millais:

    19, WARWICK CRESCENT, May 10, 1878.

    MY BELOVED MILLAIS,--You will be gladdened in the kind heart of you to
    learn that Pen's picture has been bought by Mr. Fielder, a perfect
    stranger to both of us. You know what your share has been in his
    success, and it cannot but do a world of good to a young fellow whose
    fault was never that of being insensible to an obligation.

    Ever Affectionately Yours,

    ROBERT BROWNING.[13]

In 1871 Browning had been appointed Life Governor of the University of London, an honor that
he particularly appreciated as indicating the interest of students in his poetry. In the late
winter of 1872, after an absence of thirty years, Alfred Domett again appeared. He had vanished

  "like a ghost at break of day,"

and like a ghost he returned, calling at once on his friend in Warwick Crescent. A letter from
Miss Browning to Domett explains itself:

    19, WARWICK CRESCENT,

    UPPER WESTBOURNE TERRACE, Feb. 1872.

    MY DEAR MR. DOMETT,--My brother was so sorry to miss you yesterday; he
    is a man of many engagements, and unfortunately is engaged every
    evening next week, or I would ask you to join our family dinner as
    soon as possible--but meanwhile, as he is impatient to see you, will
    you be very kind and come to lunch with us on Monday at one o'clock?
    We shall be delighted to meet you. If you cannot come on Monday, name
    some other morning.

    Always Yours Truly,

    SARIANNA BROWNING.

The old friendship between Browning and Domett was renewed with constant intercourse and interchange
of delightful letters. Milsand was in the habit of passing a part of every spring with Browning
in his home in Warwick Crescent, and with the arrival of Domett a warm and sincere friendship
united all three.

Once, in Scotland, as the guest of Ernest Benzon, when Browning missed part of a visit from
Milsand, the poet said: "No words can express the love I have for Milsand, increasingly precious
as he is." The Benzons were at that time in the hills above Loch Tummel, where Jowett was staying,
Swinburne also with the Master of Balliol. Had there been a phonograph to register the conversation
of such a trio as Jowett, Browning, and Swinburne, its records would be eagerly sought.

A fragmentary record, indeed, remains in a note made by Edwin Harrison, who was with Jowett
at this time. In his diary Mr. Harrison recorded:

    "R. B. was in the neighborhood, staying at Little Milton, above Loch
    Tummel, where he was perpetrating 'Prince Hohenstiel-Schwangau' at the
    rate of so many lines a day, neither more nor less. He walked over to
    see Jowett one afternoon, very keen about a fanciful rendering he had
    imagined for lines in the Alcestis. A few evenings later we met him
    and his son at dinner at Altaine House, by the foot of the loch. You
    may be sure that where Jowett and Browning were, the conversation was
    animated and interesting."

In "Balaustion's Adventure" the poet seemed to take captive the popular appreciation of the
day, for more than three thousand copies had been sold within the first six months, and his
sister told Domett that she regarded it as the most swiftly appreciated poem of all her brother's
works. Certainly it is one of the most alluring of Browning's works,--this delightful treatment
of the interwoven life of mortals and of the immortal gods.

The June of 1872 brought to Browning the sad news of the death of his wife's dearest friend,
Isa Blagden. "A little volume of Isabella Blagden's poems was published after her death," writes
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. "They are not such as would take the world by storm, but it is impossible
to read them without perceiving how choice a spirit their author must have been, and understanding
how she was especially honored with the friendship of Mrs. Browning."[14]

On the publication of "Red Cotton Night-cap Country," Browning sent a first copy to Tennyson,
and the Laureate's son says of it: "Among the lines which my father liked were

  'Palatial, gloomy chambers for parade,
  And passage lengths of lost significance';

and he praised the simile about the man with his dead comrade in the lighthouse. He wrote to
Mr. Browning: 'My wife has just cut the leaves. I have yet again to thank you, and feel rather
ashamed that I have nothing of my own to send you back.'"

An entry in Tennyson's diary in the following December notes: "Mr. Browning dined with us.
He was very affectionate and delightful. It was a great pleasure to hear his words,--that he
had not had so happy a time for a long while as since we have been in town."

Tennyson's "Queen Mary" was published in 1875, and on receiving a copy from the author Browning
wrote expressing thanks for the gift, and even more for "Queen Mary the poem." He found it
"astonishingly fine"; and he adds: "What a joy that such a poem should be, and be yours." The
relations between the two great poets of the Victorian age were always ideally beautiful, in
their cordial friendship and their warm mutual appreciation.

In a note dated in the Christmas days of 1876 Browning writes:

    MY DEAR TENNYSON,--True thanks again, this time for the best of
    Christmas presents, another great work, wise, good, and beautiful. The
    scene where Harold is overborne to take the oath is perfect, for one
    instance. What a fine new ray of light you are entwining with your
    many-colored wreath!...

    All happiness befall you and yours this good season and ever.[15]

The present Lord Tennyson, in his biography of his father, makes many interesting allusions
to the friendship and the pleasant intercourse between the poets. "Browning frequently dined
with us," he says, "and the tête-à-tête conversations between him and my father on every imaginable
topic were the best talk I have ever heard, so full of repartee, epigram, anecdote, depth,
and wisdom, too brilliant to be possible to reproduce. These brother poets were two of the
most widely read men of their time, absolutely without a touch of jealousy, and reveling, as
it were, in each other's power.... Browning had a faculty for absurd and abstruse rhymes, and
I recall a dinner where Jebb, Miss Thackeray, and Browning were all present, and Browning said
he could make a rhyme for every word in the language. We proposed rhinoceros, and without pause
he said,

  'O, if you should see a rhinoceros
      And a tree be in sight,
      Climb quick, for his might
  Is a match for the gods,--he can toss Eros.'"

A London friend relates that on one occasion Browning chanced upon a literal translation some
one had made from the Norwegian:

  "The soul where love abideth not resembles
  A house by night, without a fire or torch,"

and remarked how easy it would be to put this into rhyme; and immediately transmuted it into
the couplet,

  "What seems the soul when love's outside the porch?
  A house by night, without a fire or torch."

When Browning's "Inn Album" appeared, and he sent a copy to Tennyson, the Laureate responded:

    "MY DEAR BROWNING,--You are the most brotherly of poets, and your
    brother in the muses thanks you with the affection of a brother. She
    would thank you too, if she could put hand to pen."

Tennyson once remarked to his son, Hallam, that he wished he had written Browning's lines:

  "The little more, and how much it is,
  The little less, and what worlds away."

There was an interval of twelve years between the appearance of the "Dramatis Personæ" (in
1864) and the publication of "Pacchiarotto." In this collection Browning's amusing play of
rhyme is much in evidence. Among Mr. Browning's most enjoyable experiences were his frequent
visits to Oxford and Cambridge, in both of which he was an honored guest. In the spring of
1877 he had an especially delightful stay at Oxford, the pleasure even beginning on the train,
"full of men, all my friends," he wrote of it; and continued: "I was welcomed on arrival by
a Fellow who installed me in my rooms--then came the pleasant meeting with Jowett, who at once
took me to tea with his other guests, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of London, the
Dean of Westminster, Lord Airlie, and others."

There was a banquet and much postprandial eloquence that night, and Browning mentions among
the speakers Lord Coleridge, Professor Smith, Mr. Green (on science and literature with a most
complimentary appreciation of Browning), and "a more rightly-directed one," says the poet,
"on Arnold, Swinburne, and the old pride of Balliol, Clough, which was cleverly and almost
touchingly answered by dear Matthew Arnold." The Dean of Westminster responded to the toast
of "The Fellows and the Scholars," and the entire affair lasted over six hours. "But the whole
thing," said Browning, "was brilliant, genial, and there was a warmth, earnestness, and refinement
about it which I never experienced in any previous public dinner."

The profound impression that Browning made both by his personality and his poetic work is further
attested by his being again chosen Lord Rector of the University of Glasgow. Dr. William Knight,
the Professor of Moral Philosophy at St. Andrews, urges Browning's acceptance of this office,
and begs the poet to realize "how the thoughtful youth of Scotland" estimate his work. Professor
Knight closes by saying that his own obligations to Browning, "and to the author of 'Aurora
Leigh' are such that of them silence is golden." While Mr. Browning was deeply touched by this
testimonial of esteem, he still, for the second time, declined the honor.

Many readers and lovers of Robert Browning's poem "La Saisiaz" little dream of the singular
story connected with it. "La Saisiaz" is a chalet above Geneva, high up in the Savoyard mountains,
looking down on Geneva and Lake Leman. It is a tall, white house, with a red roof that attracted
the lovers of beauty, solitude, and seclusion. Among the few habitués for many years were Robert
Browning and his sister, Sarianna, and their friend, Miss Egerton-Smith. It was the bond of
music that especially united Browning and this lady, and in London they were apt to frequent
concerts together. "La Saisiaz" is surrounded by tall poplar trees, but the balcony from a
third-floor window, which was Browning's room, looked through a space in the trees out on the
blue lake, and on this balcony he would draw out his chair and writing desk. Back of the chalet
a steep path ran up the mountains, where the three friends often climbed, to enjoy a gorgeous
and unrivaled sunset spectacle.

In 1877 they were all there as usual in August, and one evening had planned that the next day
they would start early in the morning and pass the day on the mountain, going by carriage,
a servant accompanying them carrying the basket of luncheon. In the early evening Browning
and Miss Egerton-Smith were out, pacing up and down the "grass-grown path," and talking of
the infinite life which includes death and that which is beyond death. The next morning she
did not appear, and Browning and his sister waited for her. They sat out on the terrace after
having morning coffee, expecting to see the "tall white figure," and finally Miss Browning
went to her room to ask if she were ill, and she lay dead on the floor. Miss Egerton-Smith
was buried in the neighboring cemetery of Collonge, where her grave, over which a wonderful
willow tree bends, is still seen--a place of frequent pilgrimage to visitors in this region.
Five days after her death Browning made the excursion up the mountain alone,

  "But a bitter touched its sweetness, for the thought stung 'Even so
  Both of us had loved and wondered just the same, five days ago!'"

