I know I have something else to say to you, but unfortunately  I awoke this morning with collywobbles,
and had to take a  small dose of laudanum with the usual consequences of dry  throat, intoxicated
legs, partial madness and total  imbecility; and for the life of me I cannot remember what
it  is.  I have likewise mislaid your letter amongst the  accumulations on my table, not that
there was anything in it.   Altogether I am in a poor state.  I forgot to tell Baxter  that
the dummy had turned up and is a fine, personable- looking volume and very good reading.  Please
communicate  this to him.

I have just remembered an incident that I really must not let  pass.  You have heard a great
deal more than you wanted about  our political prisoners.  Well, one day, about a fortnight
ago, the last of them was set free - Old Poe, whom I think I  must have mentioned to you, the
father-in-law of my cook, was  one that I had had a great deal of trouble with.  I had taken
the doctor to see him, got him out on sick leave, and when he  was put back again gave bail
for him.  I must not forget that  my wife ran away with him out of the prison on the doctor's
orders and with the complicity of our friend the gaoler, who  really and truly got the sack
for the exploit.  As soon as he  was finally liberated, Poe called a meeting of his fellow-
prisoners.  All Sunday they were debating what they were to  do, and on Monday morning I got
an obscure hint from Talolo  that I must expect visitors during the day who were coming to
consult me.  These consultations I am now very well used to,  and seeing first, that I generally
don't know what to advise,  and second that they sometimes don't take my advice - though  in
some notable cases they have taken it, generally to my own  wonder with pretty good results
- I am not very fond of these  calls.  They minister to a sense of dignity, but not peace of
mind, and consume interminable time always in the morning  too, when I can't afford it.  However,
this was to be a new  sort of consultation.  Up came Poe and some eight other  chiefs, squatted
in a big circle around the old dining-room  floor, now the smoking-room.  And the family, being
represented by Lloyd, Graham, Belle, Austin and myself,  proceeded to exchange the necessary
courtesies.  Then their  talking man began.  He said that they had been in prison,  that I
had always taken an interest in them, that they had  now been set at liberty without condition,
whereas some of  the other chiefs who had been liberated before them were  still under bond
to work upon the roads, and that this had  set them considering what they might do to testify
their  gratitude.  They had therefore agreed to work upon my road as  a free gift.  They went
on to explain that it was only to be  on my road, on the branch that joins my house with the
public  way.

Now I was very much gratified at this compliment, although  (to one used to natives) it seemed
rather a hollow one.  It  meant only that I should have to lay out a good deal of money  on
tools and food and to give wages under the guise of  presents to some workmen who were most
of them old and in  ill-health.  Conceive how much I was surprised and touched  when I heard
the whole scheme explained to me.  They were to  return to their provinces, and collect their
families; some  of the young men were to live in Apia with a boat, and ply up  and down the
coast to A'ana and A'tua (our own Tuamasaga  being quite drained of resources) in order to
supply the  working squad with food.  Tools they did ask for, but it was  especially mentioned
that I was to make no presents.  In  short, the whole of this little 'presentation' to me had
been  planned with a good deal more consideration than goes usually  with a native campaign.

(I sat on the opposite side of the circle to the talking man.   His face was quite calm and
high-bred as he went through the  usual Samoan expressions of politeness and compliment, but
when he came on to the object of their visit, on their love  and gratitude to Tusitala, how
his name was always in their  prayers, and his goodness to them when they had no other  friend,
was their most cherished memory, he warmed up to  real, burning, genuine feeling.  I had never
seen the Samoan  mask of reserve laid aside before, and it touched me more  than anything else.
A.M.)

This morning as ever was, bright and early up came the whole  gang of them, a lot of sturdy,
common-looking lads they  seemed to be for the most part, and fell to on my new road.   Old
Poe was in the highest of good spirits, and looked better  in health than he has done any time
in two years, being  positively rejuvenated by the success of his scheme.  He  jested as he
served out the new tools, and I am sorry to say  damned the Government up hill and down dale,
probably with a  view to show off his position as a friend of the family  before his work-boys.
Now, whether or not their impulse will  last them through the road does not matter to me one
hair.   It is the fact that they have attempted it, that they have  volunteered and are now
really trying to execute a thing that  was never before heard of in Samoa.  Think of it!  It
is  road-making - the most fruitful cause (after taxes) of all  rebellions in Samoa, a thing
to which they could not be wiled  with money nor driven by punishment.  It does give me a sense
of having done something in Samoa after all.

Now there's one long story for you about 'my blacks.' - Yours  ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

CHAPTER XLIV

VAILIMA, SAMOA, OCT. 6TH, 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - We have had quite an interesting month and  mostly in consideration of that
road which I think I told you  was about to be made.  It was made without a hitch, though I
confess I was considerably surprised.  When they got through,  I wrote a speech to them, sent
it down to a Missionary to be  translated, and invited the lot to a feast.  I thought a good
deal of this feast.  The occasion was really interesting.  I  wanted to pitch it in hot.  And
I wished to have as many  influential witnesses present as possible.  Well, as it drew  towards
the day I had nothing but refusals.  Everybody  supposed it was to be a political occasion,
that I had made a  hive of rebels up here, and was going to push for new  hostilities.

The Amanuensis has been ill, and after the above trial  petered out.  I must return to my own,
lone Waverley.  The  captain refused, telling me why; and at last I had to beat up  for people
almost with prayers.  However, I got a good lot,  as you will see by the accompanying newspaper
report.  The  road contained this inscription, drawn up by the chiefs  themselves:

'THE ROAD OF GRATITUDE.'

'Considering the great love of Tusitala in his loving care of  us in our distress in the prison,
we have therefore prepared  a splendid gift.  It shall never be muddy, it shall endure  for
ever, this road that we have dug.'  This the newspaper  reporter could not give, not knowing
any Samoan.  The same  reason explains his references to Seumanutafa's speech, which  was not
long and WAS important, for it was a speech of  courtesy and forgiveness to his former enemies.
It was very  much applauded.  Secondly, it was not Poe, it was Mataafa  (don't confuse with
Mataafa) who spoke for the prisoners.   Otherwise it is extremely correct.

I beg your pardon for so much upon my aboriginals.  Even you  must sympathise with me in this
unheard-of compliment, and my  having been able to deliver so severe a sermon with  acceptance.
It remains a nice point of conscience what I  should wish done in the matter.  I think this
meeting, its  immediate results, and the terms of what I said to them,  desirable to be known.
It will do a little justice to me,  who have not had too much justice done me.  At the same
time,  to send this report to the papers is truly an act of self- advertisement, and I dislike
the thought.  Query, in a man  who has been so much calumniated, is that not justifiable? 
I  do not know; be my judge.  Mankind is too complicated for me;  even myself.  Do I wish to
advertise?  I think I do, God help  me!  I have had hard times here, as every man must have
who  mixes up with public business; and I bemoan myself, knowing  that all I have done has
been in the interest of peace and  good government; and having once delivered my mind, I would
like it, I think, to be made public.  But the other part of  me REGIMBS.  But I hope rather
a DOMBEY AND SON, to be succeeded  by OUR MUTUAL FRIEND and GREAT EXPECTATIONS and A TALE OF
TWO  CITIES.  No toil has been spared over the ungrateful canvas;  and it WILL NOT come together,
and I must live, and my  family.  Good thing anyway!  for it seems to have sold the Edition.
And I look forward  confidently to an aftermath; I do not think my health can be  so hugely
improved, without some subsequent improvement in my  brains.  Though, of course, there is the
possibility that  literature is a morbid secretion, and abhors health!  I do  not think it
is possible to have fewer illusions than I.  I  sometimes wish I had more.  They are amusing.
But I cannot  take myself seriously as an artist; the limitations are so  obvious.  I did take
myself seriously as a workman of old,  but my practice has fallen off.  I am now an idler and
cumberer of the ground; it may be excused to me perhaps by  twenty years of industry and ill-health,
which have taken the  cream off the milk.

As I was writing this last sentence, I heard the strident  rain drawing near across the forest,
and by the time I was  come to the word 'cream' it burst upon my roof, and has since  redoubled,
and roared upon it.  A very welcome change.  All  smells of the good wet earth, sweetly, with
a kind of  Highland touch; the crystal rods of the shower, as I look up,  have drawn their
criss-cross over everything; and a gentle  and very welcome coolness comes up around me in
little  draughts, blessed draughts, not chilling, only equalising the  temperature.  Now the
rain is off in this spot, but I hear it  roaring still in the nigh neighbourhood - and that
moment, I  was driven from the verandah by random rain drops, spitting  at me through the Japanese
blinds.  These are not tears with  which the page is spotted!  Now the windows stream, the
roof  reverberates.  It is good; it answers something which is in  my heart; I know not what;
old memories of the wet moorland  belike.

