At the close of Monday's sessions, going down the broad walk from the high school, Donald overtook
Linda and in a breathless whisper he said: "What do you think? I came near Oka Sayye again
this morning in trig, and his hair was as black as jet, dyed to a midnight, charcoal finish,
and I am not right sure that he had not borrowed some girl's lipstick and rouge pot for the
benefit of his lips and cheeks. Positively he's hectically youthful today. What do you know
about that?"

Then he hurried on to overtake the crowd of boys he had left, Linda's heart was racing in her
breast.

Turning, she re-entered the school building, and taking a telephone directory she hunted an
address, and then, instead of going to the car line that took her to Lilac Valley she went
to the address she had looked up. With a pencil she wrote a few lines on a bit of scratch paper
in one of her books. That note opened a door and admitted her to the presence of a tall, lean,
gray-haired man with quick, blue-gray eyes and lips that seemed capable of being either grave
or gay on short notice. With that perfect ease which Linda had acquired through the young days
of her life in meeting friends of her father, she went to the table beside which this man was
standing and stretched out her hand.

"Judge Whiting?" she asked.

"Yes," said the Judge.

"I am Linda Strong, the younger daughter of Alexander Strong. I think you knew my father."

"Yes," said the Judge, "I knew him very well indeed, and I have some small acquaintance with
his daughter through very interesting reports that my son brings home."

"Yes, it is about Donald that I came to see you," said Linda.

If she had been watching as her father would have watched, Linda would have seen the slight
uplift of the Judge's figure, the tensing of his muscles, the narrowing of his eyes in the
swift, speculative look he passed over her from the crown of her bare, roughened black head
down the gold-brown of her dress to her slender, well-shod feet. The last part of that glance
Linda caught. She slightly lifted one of the feet under inspection, thrust it forward and looked
at the Judge with a gay challenge in her dark eyes.

"Are you interested in them too?" she asked.

The Judge was embarrassed. A flush crept into his cheeks. He was supposed to be master of any
emergency that might arise, but one had arisen in connection with a slip of a schoolgirl that
left him wordless.

"It is very probable," said Linda, "that if my shoes had been like most other girls' shoes
I wouldn't be here today. I was in the same schoolroom with your son for three years, and he
never saw me or spoke to me until one day he stopped me to inquire why I wore the kind of shoes
I did. He said he had a battle to wage with me because I tried to be a law to myself, and he
wanted to know why I wasn't like other girls. And I told him I had a crow to pick with HIM
because he had the kind of brain that would be content to let a Jap beat him in his own school,
in his own language and in his own country; so we made an engagement to fight to a finish,
and it ended by his becoming the only boy friend I have and the nicest boy friend a girl ever
had, I am very sure. That's why I'm here."

Linda lifted her eyes and Judge Whiting looked into them till he saw the same gold lights in
their depths that Peter Morrison had seen. He came around the table and placed a big leather
chair for Linda. Then he went back and resumed his own.

"Of course," said the Judge in his most engaging manner. "I gather from what Donald has told
me that you have a reason for being here, and I want you to understand that I am intensely
interested in anything you have to say to me. Now tell me why you came."

"I came," said Linda, "because I started something and am afraid of the possible result. I
think very likely if, in retaliation for what Donald said to me about my hair and my shoes,
I had not twitted him about the use he was making of his brain and done everything in my power
to drive him into competition with Oka Sayye in the hope that a white man would graduate with
the highest honors, he would not have gone into this competition, which I am now certain has
antagonized Oka Sayye."

Linda folded her slim hands on the table and leaned forward.

"Judge Whiting," she said earnestly, "I know very little about men. The most I know was what
I learned about my father and the men with whom he occasionally hunted and fished. They were
all such fine men that I must have grown up thinking that every man was very like them, but
one day I came in direct contact with the Jap that Donald is trying to beat, and the thing
I saw in his face put fear into my heart and it has been there ever since. I have almost an
unreasoning fear of that Jap, not because he has said anything or done anything. It's just
instinctive. I may be wholly wrong in having come to you and in taking up your time, but there
are two things I wanted to tell you. I could have told Donald, but if I did and his mind went
off at a tangent thinking of these things he wouldn't be nearly so likely to be in condition
to give his best thought to his studies. If I really made him see what I think I have seen,
and fear what I know I fear, he might fail where I would give almost anything to see him succeed;
so I thought I would come to you and tell you about it and ask you please to think it over,
and to take extra care of him, because I really believe that he may be in danger; and if he
is I never shall be able to rid myself of a sense of responsibility."

"I see," said Judge Whiting. "Now tell me, just as explicitly as you have told me this, exactly
what it is that you fear."

"Last Saturday," said Linda, "Donald told me that while standing at the board beside Oka Sayye,
demonstrating a theorem, he noticed that there were gray hairs above the Jap's ears, and he
bluntly asked him, before the professor and the class, how old he was. In telling me, he said
he had the feeling that if the Jap could have done so in that instant, he would have killed
him. He said he was nineteen, but Donald says from the matured lines of his body, from his
hands and his face and his hair, he is certain that he is thirty or more, and he thinks it
very probable that he may have graduated at home before he came here to get his English for
nothing from our public schools. I never before had the fact called to my attention that this
was being done, but Donald told me that he had been in classes with matured men when he was
less than ten years of age. That is not fair, Judge Whiting; it is not right. There should
be an age specified above which people may not be allowed to attend public school."

"I quite agree with you," said the Judge. "That has been done in the grades, but there is nothing
fair in bringing a boy under twenty in competition with a man graduated from the institutions
of another country, even in the high schools. If this be the case--"

"You can be certain that it is," said Linda, "because Donald whispered to me as he passed me
half an hour ago, coming from the school building, that TODAY Oka Sayye's hair is a uniform,
shining black, and he also thought that he had used a lipstick and rouge in an effort at rejuvenation.
Do you think, from your knowledge of Donald, that he would imagine that?"

"No," said Judge Whiting, "I don't think such a thing would occur to him unless he saw it."

"Neither do I," said Linda. "From the short acquaintance I have with him I should not call
him at all imaginative, but he is extremely quick and wonderfully retentive. You have to show
him but once from which cactus he can get Victrola needles and fishing hooks, or where to find
material for wooden legs."

The Judge laughed. "Doesn't prove much," he said. "You wouldn't have to show me that more than
once either. If anyone were giving me an intensive course on such interesting subjects, I would
guarantee to remember, even at my age."

Linda nodded in acquiescence. "Then you can regard it as quite certain," she said, "that Oka
Sayye is making up in an effort to appear younger than he is which means that he doesn't want
his right questioned to be in our schools, to absorb the things that we are taught, to learn
our language, our government, our institutions, our ideals, our approximate strength and our
only-too-apparent weakness."

The Judge leaned forward and waited attentively.

"The other matter," said Linda, "was relative to Saturday. There may not be a thing in it,
but sometimes a woman's intuition proves truer than what a man thinks he sees and knows. I
haven't SEEN a thing, and I don't KNOW a thing, but I don't believe your gardener was sick
last week. I believe he had a dirty job he wanted done and preferred to save his position and
avoid risks by getting some other Jap who had no family and no interests here, to do it for
him. I don't BELIEVE that your car, having run all right Friday night, was shot to pieces Saturday
morning so that Donald went smash with it in a manner that might very easily have killed him,
or sent him to the hospital for months, while Oka Sayye carried off the honors without competition
I want to ask you to find out whether your regular gardener truly was ill, whether he has a
family and interests to protect here, or whether he is a man who could disappear in a night
as Japs who have leased land and have families cannot. I want to know about the man who took
your gardener's place, and I want the man who is repairing your car interviewed very carefully
as to what he found the trouble with it."

Linda paused. Judge Whiting sat in deep thought, then he looked at Linda.

"I see," he said at last. "Thank you very much for coming to me. All these things and anything
that develops from them shall be handled carefully. Of course you know that Donald is my only
son and you can realize what he is to me and to his mother and sister."

"It is because I do realize that," said Linda, "that I am here. I appreciate his friendship,
but it is not for my own interests that I am asking to have him taken care of while he wages
his mental war with this Jap. I want Donald to have the victory, but I want it to be a victory
that will be an inspiration to any boy of white blood among any of our allies or among peoples
who should be our allies. There's a showdown coming between the white race and a mighty aggregation
of colored peoples one of these days, and if the white man doesn't realize pretty soon that
his supremacy is not only going to be contested but may be lost, it just simply will be lost;
that is all there is to it."

The Judge was studying deeply now. Finally he said: "Young lady, I greatly appreciate your
coming to me. There may be NOTHING in what you fear. It MIGHT be a matter of national importance.
In any event, it shows that your heart is in the right place. May Mrs. Whiting and I pay you
a visit some day soon in your home?"

"Of course," said Linda simply. "I told Donald to bring his mother the first time he came,
but he said he did not need to be chaperoned when he came to see me, because my father's name
was a guarantee to his mother that my home would be a proper place for him to visit."

"I wonder how many of his other girl friends invited him to bring his mother to see them,"
said the Judge.

"Oh, he probably grew up with the other girls and was acquainted with them from tiny things,"
said Linda.

"Very likely," conceded the Judge. "I think, after all, I would rather have an invitation to
make one of those trips with you to the desert or the mountains. Is there anything else as
interesting as fish hooks and Victrola needles and wooden legs to be learned?"

"Oh, yes," said Linda, leaning farther forward, a lovely color sweeping up into her cheeks,
her eyes a-shine. She had missed the fact that the Judge was jesting. She had thought him in
sober, scientific earnest.

"It's an awfully nice thing if you dig a plant or soil your hands in hunting, or anything like
that, to know that there are four or five different kinds of vegetable soap where you can easily
reach them, if you know them. If you lose your way or have a long tramp, it's good to know
which plants will give you drink and where they are. And if you're short of implements, you
might at any time need a mescal stick, or an arrow shaft or an arrow, even. If Donald were
lost now, he could keep alive for days, because he would know what wood would make him a bow
and how he could take amole fiber and braid a bow string and where he could make arrows and
arrow points so that he could shoot game for food. I've taught him to make a number of snares,
and he knows where to find and how to cook his greens and potatoes and onions and where to
find his pickles and how to make lemonade and tea, and what to use for snake bite. It's been
such fun, Judge Whiting, and he has been so interested."

"Yes, I should think he would be," said the Judge. "I am interested myself. If you would take
an old boy like me on a few of those trips, I would be immensely pleased."

"You'd like brigand beefsteak," suggested Linda, "and you'd like cress salad, and I am sure
you'd like creamed yucca."

"Hm," said the Judge. "Sounds to me like Jane Meredith."

Linda suddenly sat straight. A dazed expression crossed her face. Presently she recovered.

"Will you kindly tell me," she said, "what a great criminal judge knows about Jane Meredith?"

"Why, I hear my wife and daughter talking about her," said the Judge.

"I wonder," said Linda, "if a judge hears so many secrets that he forgets what a secret is
and couldn't possibly keep one to save his life."

"On the other hand," said Judge Whiting, "a judge hears so many secrets that he learns to be
a very secretive person himself, and if a young lady just your size and so like you in every
way as to be you, told me anything and told me that it was a secret, I would guarantee to carry
it with me to my grave, if I said I would."

One of Linda's special laughs floated out of the windows. Her right hand slipped across the
table toward the Judge.

"Cross your heart and body?" she challenged.

The Judge took the hand she offered in both of his own.

"On my soul," he said, "I swear it."

"All right," bubbled Linda. "Judge Whiting, allow me to present to you Jane Meredith, the author
and originator of the Aboriginal Cookery articles now running in Everybody's Home."

Linda stood up as she made the presentation and the Judge arose with her. When she bowed her
dark head before him the Judge bowed equally as low, then he took the hand he held and pressed
it against his lips.

"I am not surprised," he said. "I am honored, deeply honored, and I am delighted. For a high
school girl that is a splendid achievement."

"But you realize, of course," said Linda, "that it is vicarious. I really haven't done anything.
I am just passing on to the world what Alexander Strong found it interesting to teach his daughter,
because he hadn't a son."

"I certainly am fortunate that my son is getting the benefit of this," said Judge Whiting earnestly.
"There are girls who make my old-fashioned soul shudder, but I shall rest in great comfort
whenever I know that my boy is with you."

"Sure!" laughed Linda. "I'm not vamping him. I don't know the first principles. We're not doing
a thing worse than sucking 'hunters' rock leek' or roasting Indian potatoes or fishing for
trout with cactus spines. I have had such a lovely time I don't believe that I'll apologize
for coming. But you won't waste a minute in making sure about Oka Sayye?"

"I won't waste a minute," said the Judge.

CHAPTER XXII. The End of Marian's Contest

Coming from school a few days later on an evening when she had been detained, Linda found a
radiant Katy awaiting her.

"What's up, old dear?" cried Linda. "You seem positively illumined."

"So be," said Katy. "It's a good time I'm havin'. In the first place the previous boss of this
place ain't nowise so bossy as sue used to be, an' livin' with her is a dale aisier. An' then,
when Miss Eileen is around these days, she is beginning to see things, and she is just black
with jealousy of ye. Something funny happened here the afternoon, an' she was home for once
an' got the full benefit of it. I was swapin' the aist walk, but I know she was inside the
window an' I know she heard. First, comes a great big loaded automobile drivin' up, and stopped
in front with a flourish an' out hops as nice an' nate a lookin' lad as ever you clapped your
eyes on, an' up he comes to me an' off goes his hat with a swape, an' he hands me that bundle
an' he says: 'Here's something Miss Linda is wantin' bad for her wild garden.'"

Katy handed Linda a bundle of newspaper, inside which, wrapped in a man's handkerchief, she
found several plants, carefully lifted, the roots properly balled, the heads erect, crisp,
although in full flower.

"Oh, Katy!" cried Linda. "Look, it's Gallito, 'little rooster'!" "Now ain't them jist yellow
violets?" asked Katy dubiously.

"No," said Linda, "they are not. They are quite a bit rarer. They are really a wild pansy.
Bring water, Katy, and help me."

"But I've something else for ye," said Katy.

"I don't care what you have," answered Linda. "I am just compelled to park these little roosters
at once."

"What makes ye call them that ungodly name?" asked Katy.

"Nothing ungodly about it," answered Linda. "It's funny. Gallito is the Spanish name for these
violets, and it means 'little rooster.'"

Linda set the violets as carefully as they had been lifted and rinsed her hands at the hydrant.

"Now bring on the remainder of the exhibit," she ordered.

"It's there on the top of the rock pile, which you notice has incrased since ye last saw it."

"So it has!" said Linda. "So it has! And beautifully colored specimens those are too. My fern
bed will lift up its voice and rejoice in them. And rocks mean Henry Anderson. The box I do
not understand."

Linda picked it up, untied the string, and slipped off the wrapping. Katy stared in wide-mouthed
amazement.

"I was just tickled over that because Miss Eileen saw a good-looking and capable young man
leave a second package, right on the heels of young Whiting," she said. "Whatever have ye got,
lambie? What does that mean?"

Linda held up a beautiful box of glass, inside of which could be seen swarming specimens of
every bug, beetle, insect, and worm that Henry Anderson had been able to collect in Heaven
only knew what hours of search. Linda opened the box. The winged creatures flew, the bettles
tumbled, the worms went over the top. She set it on the ground and laughed to exhaustion. Her
eyes were wet as she looked up at Katy.

"That first night Henry Anderson and Peter Morrison were here to dinner, Katy," she said, "Anderson
made a joke about being my bug-catcher when I built my home nest, and several times since he
has tried to be silly about it, but the last time I told him it was foolishness to which I
would listen no more, so instead of talking, he has taken this way of telling me that he is
fairly expert as a bug-catcher. Really, it is awfully funny, Katy."

Katy was sober. She showed no appreciation of the fun.

"Ye know, lambie," she said, her hands on her hips, her elbows wide-spread, her jaws argumentative,
"I've done some blarneying with that lad, an' I've fed him some, because he was doin' things
that would help an' please ye, but now I'm tellin' ye, just like I'll be tellin' ye till I
die, I ain't STRONG for him. If ever the day comes when ye ask me to take on that Whiting kid
for me boss, I'll bow my head an' I'll fly at his bidding, because he is real, he's goin' to
come out a man lots like your pa, or hisn. An' if ever the day comes when ye will be telling
me ye want me to serve Pater Morrison, I'll well nigh get on my knees to him. I think he'd
be the closest we'd ever come to gettin' the master back. But I couldn't say I'd ever take
to Anderson. They's something about him, I can't just say what, but he puts me back up amazin'."

"Don't worry, ancient custodian of the family," said Linda. "That same something in Henry Anderson
that antagonizes you, affects me in even stronger degree. You must not get the foolish notion
that any man has a speculative eye on me, because it is not true. Donald Whiting is only a
boy friend, treating me as a brother would, and Peter Morrison is much too sophisticated and
mature to pay any serious attention to a girl with a year more high school before her. I want
to be decent to Henry Anderson, because he is Peter's architect, and I'm deeply interested
in Peter's house and the lady who will live in it. Sometimes I hope it will be Donald's sister,
Mary Louise. Anyway, I am going to get acquainted with her and make it my business to see that
she and Peter get their chance to know each other well. My job for Peter is to help run his
brook at the proper angle, build his bridge, engineer his road, and plant his grounds; so don't
be dreaming any foolish dreams, Katy."

Katy folded her arms, tilted her chin at an unusually aspiring angle, and deliberately sniffed.

"Don't ye be lettin' yourself belave your own foolishness," she said. "I ain't done with me
exhibit yet. On the hall table ye will find a package from the Pater Morrison man that Miss
Eileen had the joy of takin' in and layin' aside for ye, an atop of it rists a big letter that
I'm thinkin' might mean Miss Marian."

"Oh," cried Linda. "Why are you wasting all this time? If there is a letter from Marian it
may mean that the competition is decided; but if it is, she loses, because she was to telegraph
if she won."

Linda rushed into the house and carried her belongings to her workroom. She dropped them on
the table and looked at them.

"I'll get you off my mind first," she said to the Morrison package, which enclosed a new article
entitled "How to Grow Good Citizens." With it was a scrawled line, "I'm leaving the head and
heels of the future to you."

"How fine!" exulted Linda. "He must have liked the head and tail pieces I drew for his other
article, so he wants the same for this, and if he is well paid for his article, maybe in time,
after I've settled for my hearth motto, he will pay me something for my work. Gal-lum-shus!"

As she opened the letter from Marian she slowly shook her head.

"Drat the luck," she muttered, "no good news here."

Slowly and absorbedly she read:

DEAREST LINDA:

No telegram to send. I grazed the first prize and missed the second because Henry Anderson
wins with plans so like mine that they are practically duplicates. I have not seen the winning
plans. Mr. Snow told me as gently as he could that the judges had ruled me out entirely. The
winning plans are practically a reversal of mine, more professionally drawn, and no doubt the
specifications are far ahead of mine, as these are my weak spot, although I have worked all
day and far into the night on the mathematics of house building. Mr. Snow was very kind, and
terribly cut up about it. I made what I hope was a brave fight, I did so believe in those plans
that I am afraid to say just how greatly disappointed I am. All I can do is to go to work again
and try to find out how to better my best, which I surely put into the plans I submitted. I
can't see how Henry Anderson came to hit upon some of my personal designs for comforts and
conveniences. I had hoped that no man would think of my especial kitchen plans. I rather fancied
myself as a benefactor to my sex, an emancipator from drudgery, as it were. I had a concealed
feeling that it required a woman who had expended her strength combating the construction of
a devilish kitchen, to devise some of my built-in conveniences, and I worked as carefully on
my kitchen table, as on any part of the house. If I find later that the winning plans include
these things I shall believe that Henry Anderson is a mind reader, or that lost plans naturally
gravitate to him. But there is no use to grouch further. I seem to be born a loser. Anyway,
I haven't lost you and I still have Dana Meade.

I have nothing else to tell you except that Mr. Snow has waited for me two evenings out of
the week ever since I wrote you, and he has taken me in his car and simply forced me to drive
him for an hour over what appeals to me to be the most difficult roads he could select. So
far I have not balked at anything but he has had the consideration not to direct me to the
mountains. He is extremely attractive, Linda, and I do enjoy being with him, but I dread it
too, because his grief is so deep and so apparent that it constantly keeps before me the loss
of my own dear ones, and those things to which the hymn books refer as "aching voids" in my
own life.

But there is something you will be glad to hear. That unknown correspondent of mine is still
sending letters, and I am crazy about them. I don't answer one now until I have mulled over
it two or three days and I try to give him as good as he sends.

I judge from your letters that you are keeping at least even with Eileen, and that life is
much happier for you. You seem to be broadening. I am so glad for the friendship you have formed
with Donald Whiting. My mother and Mrs. Whiting were friends. She is a charming woman and it
has seemed to me that in her daughter Louise she has managed a happy compound of old-fashioned
straightforwardness and unswerving principle, festooned with happy trimmings of all that is
best in the present days. I hope that you do become acquainted with her. She is older than
you, but she is the kind of girl I know you would like.

Don't worry because I have lost again, Linda dear. Today is my blue day. Tomorrow I shall roll
up my sleeves and go at it again with all my might, and by and by it is written in the books
that things will come right for me. They cannot go wrong for ever. With dearest love,

MARIAN.

Linda looked grim as she finished the letter.

"Confound such luck," she said emphatically. "I do not understand it. How can a man like Henry
Anderson know more about comforts and conveniences in a home than a woman with Marian's experience
and comprehension? And she has been gaining experience for the past ten years. That partner
of his must be a six-cylinder miracle."

Linda went to the kitchen, because she was in pressing need of someone to whom to tell her
troubles, and there was no one except Katy. What Katy said was energetic and emphatic, but
it comforted Linda, because she agreed with it and what she was seeking at the minute was someone
who agreed with her. As she went back upstairs, she met Eileen on her way to the front door.
Eileen paused and deliberately studied Linda's face, and Linda stopped and waited quietly until
she chose to speak.

"I presume," said Eileen at last, "that you and Katy would call the process through which you
are going right now, 'taking the bit in your teeth,' or some poetic thing like that, but I
can't see that you are getting much out of it. I don't hear the old laugh or the clatter of
gay feet as I did before all this war of dissatisfaction broke out. This minute if you haven't
either cried, or wanted to, I miss my guess."

"You win," said Linda. "I have not cried, because I make it a rule never to resort to tears
when I can help it; so what you see now is unshed tears in my heart. They in no way relate
to what you so aptly term my 'war of dissatisfaction'; they are for Marian. She has lost again,
this time the Nicholson and Snow prize in architecture."

"Serves her right," said Eileen, laughing contemptuously. "The ridiculous idea of her trying
to compete in a man's age-old occupation! As if she ever could learn enough about joists and
beams and girders and installing water and gas and electricity to build a house. She should
have had the sense to know she couldn't do it."

"But," said Linda quietly, "Marian wasn't proposing to be a contractor, she only wants to be
an architect. And the man who beat her is Peter Morrison's architect, Henry Anderson, and he
won by such a narrow margin that her plans were thrown out of second and third place, because
they were so very similar to his. Doesn't that strike you as curious?"

"That is more than curious," said Eileen slowly. "That is a very strange coincidence. They
couldn't have had anything from each other, because they only met at dinner, before all of
us, and Marian went away the next morning; it does seem queer." Then she added with a flash
of generosity and justice, "It looks pretty good for Marian, at that. If she came so near winning
that she lost second and third because she was too near first to make any practical difference,
I must be wrong and she must be right."

"You are wrong," said Linda tersely, "if you think Marian cannot make wonderful plans for houses.
But going back to what my 'war of dissatisfaction' is doing to me, it's a pale affair compared
with what it is doing to you, Eileen. You look a debilitated silhouette of the near recent
past. Do you feel that badly about giving up a little money and authority?"

"I never professed to have the slightest authority over you," said Eileen very primly, as she
drew back in the shadows. "You have come and gone exactly as you pleased. All I ever tried
to do was to keep up a decent appearance before the neighbors and make financial ends meet."

"That never seemed to wear on you as something seems to do now," said Linda. "I am thankful
that this week ends it. I was looking for you because I wanted to tell you to be sure not to
make any date that will keep you from meeting me at the office of the president of the Consolidated
Bank Thursday afternoon. I am going to arrange with John to be there and it shouldn't take
fifteen minutes to run through matters and divide the income in a fair way between us. I am
willing for you to go on paying the bills and ordering for the house as you have been."

"Certainly you are," sneered Eileen. "You are quite willing for all the work and use the greater
part of my time to make you comfortable."

Linda suddenly drew back. Her body seemed to recoil, but her head thrust forward as if to bring
her eyes in better range to read Eileen's face.

"That is utterly unjust, Eileen," she cried.

Then two at a time she rushed the stairs in a race for her room.

CHAPTER XXIII. The Day of Jubilee

Linda started to school half an hour earlier Wednesday morning because that was the day for
her weekly trip to the Post Office for any mail which might have come to her under the name
of Jane Meredith. She had hard work to keep down her color when she recognized the heavy gray
envelope used by the editor of Everybody's Home. As she turned from the window with it in her
fingers she was trembling slightly and wondering whether she could have a minute's seclusion
to face the answer which her last letter might have brought. There was a small alcove beside
a public desk at one side of the room. Linda stepped into this, tore open the envelope and
slipped out the sheet it contained. Dazedly she stared at the slip that fell from it. Slowly
the color left her cheeks and then came rushing back from her surcharged heart until her very
ears were red, because that slip was very manifestly a cheque for five hundred dollars. Mentally
and physically Linda shook herself, then she straightened to full height, tensing her muscles
and holding the sheet before her with a hand on each side to keep it from shaking, while she read:

MY DEAR MADAM:

I sincerely apologize for having waited so long before writing you of the very exceptional
reception which your articles have had. I think one half their attraction has been the exquisite
and appealing pictures you have sent for their illustration. At the present minute they are
forming what I consider the most unique feature in the magazine. I am enclosing you a cheque
for five hundred dollars as an initial payment on the series. Just what the completed series
should be worth I am unable to say until you inform me how many months you can keep it up at
the same grade of culinary and literary interest and attractive illustration; but I should
say at a rough estimate that you would be safe in counting upon a repetition of this cheque
for every three articles you send in. This of course includes payment for the pictures also,
which are to me if anything more attractive than the recipes, since the local color and environment
they add to the recipe and the word sketch are valuable in the extreme.

If you feel that you can continue this to the extent of even a small volume, I shall be delighted
to send you a book contract. In considering this proposition, let me say that if you could
not produce enough recipes to fill a book, you could piece it out to the necessary length most
charmingly and attractively by lengthening the descriptions of the environment in which the
particular fruits and vegetables you deal with are to be found; and in book form you might
allow yourself much greater latitude in the instructions concerning the handling of the fruits
and the preparation of the recipes. I think myself that a wonderfully attractive book could
be made from this material, and hope that you will agree with me. Trusting that this will be
satisfactory to you and that you will seriously consider the book proposition before you decline
it, I remain, my dear madam, Very truly yours,

HUGH THOMPSON,

Editor, Everybody's Home.

Gripping the cheque and the letter, Linda lurched forward against the window casement and shut
her eyes tight, because she could feel big, nervous gulps of exultation and rejoicing swelling
up in her throat. She shifted the papers to one hand and surreptitiously slipped the other
to her pocket. She tried to keep the papers before her and looked straight from the window
to avoid attracting attention. The tumult of exultation in her heart was so wild that she did
not surely know whether she wanted to sink to the floor, lay her face against the glass, and
indulge in what for generations women have referred to as "a good cry," or whether she wanted
to leap from the window and sport on the wind like a driven leaf.

Then she returned the letter and cheque to the envelope, and slipped it inside her blouse,
and started on her way to school. She might as well have gone to Multiflores Canyon and pitted
her strength against climbing its walls for the day, for all the good she did in her school
work. She heard no word of any recitation by her schoolmates. She had no word ready when called
on for a recitation herself. She heard nothing that was said by any of the professors. On winged
feet she was flying back and forth from the desert to the mountains, from the canyons to the
sea. She was raiding beds of amass and devising ways to roast the bulbs and make a new dish.
She was compounding drinks from mescal and bisnaga. She was hunting desert pickles and trying
to remember whether Indian rhubarb ever grew so far south. She was glad when the dismissal
hour came that afternoon. With eager feet she went straight to the Consolidated Bank and there
she asked again to be admitted to the office of the president. Mr. Worthington rose as she came in.

"Am I wrong in my dates?" he inquired. "I was not expecting you until tomorrow."

"No, you're quite right," said Linda. "At this hour tomorrow. But, Mr. Worthington, I am in
trouble again."

Linda looked so distressed that the banker pushed a chair to the table's side for her, and
when she had seated herself, he said quietly: "Tell me all about it, Linda. We must get life
straightened out as best we can."

"I think I must tell you all about it," said Linda, "because I know just enough about banking
to know that I have a proposition that I don't know how to handle. Are bankers like father
confessors and doctors and lawyers?"

"I think they are even more so," laughed Mr. Worthington. "Perhaps the father confessor takes
precedence, otherwise I believe people are quite as much interested in their financial secrets
as in anything else in all this world. Have you a financial secret?"

"Yes," said Linda, "I have what is to me a big secret, and I don't in the least know how to
handle it, so right away I thought about you and that you would be the one to tell me what
I could do."

"Go ahead," said Mr. Worthington kindly. "I'll give you my word of honor to keep any secret
you confide to me."

Linda produced her letter. She opened it and without any preliminaries handed it and the cheque
to the banker. He looked at the cheque speculatively, and then laid it aside and read the letter.
He gave every evidence of having read parts of it two or three times, then he examined the
cheque again, and glanced at Linda.

"And just how did you come into possession of this, young lady?" he inquired. "And what is
it that you want of me?"

"Why, don't you see?" said Linda. "It's my letter and my cheque; I'm 'Jane Meredith.' Now how
am I going to get my money."

For one dazed moment Mr. Worthington studied Linda; then he threw back his head and laughed
unrestrainedly. He came around the table and took both Linda's hands.

"Bully for you!" he cried exultantly. "How I wish your father could see the seed he has sown
bearing its fruit. Isn't that fine? And do you want to go on with this anonymously?"

"I think I must," said Linda. "I have said in my heart that no Jap, male or female, young or
old, shall take first honors in a class from which I graduate; and you can see that if people
generally knew this, it would make it awfully hard for me to go on with my studies, and I don't
know that the editor who is accepting this work would take it if he knew it were sent him by
a high-school Junior. You see the dignified way in which he addresses me as 'madam'?"

"I see," said Mr. Worthington reflectively.

"I'm sure," said Linda with demure lips, though the eyes above them were blazing and dancing
at high tension, "I'm sure that the editor is attaching a husband, and a house having a well-ordered
kitchen, and rather wide culinary experience to that 'dear madam.'"

"And what about this book proposition?" asked the banker gravely. "That would be a big thing
for a girl of your age. Can you do it, and continue your school work?"

"With the background I have, with the unused material I have, and with vacation coming before
long, I can do it easily," said Linda. "My school work is not difficult for me. It only requires
concentration for about two hours in the preparation that each day brings. The remainder of
the time I could give to amplifying and producing new recipes."

"I see," said the banker. "So you have resolved, Linda, that you don't want your editor to
know your real name."

"Could scarcely be done," said Linda.

