 A portrait of her, painted by Geyer during the lifetime
of my father, gives one a very favourable impression of what she must have been. Even from
the time when my recollection of her is quite distinct, she always had to wear a cap owing
to some slight affection of the head, so that I have no recollection of her as a young and
pretty mother. Her trying position at the head of a numerous family (of which I was the seventh
surviving member), the difficulty of obtaining the wherewithal to rear them, and of keeping
up appearances on very limited resources, did not conduce to evolve that tender sweetness and
solicitude which are usually associated with motherhood. I hardly ever recollect her having
fondled me. Indeed, demonstrations of affection were not common in our family, although a certain
impetuous, almost passionate and boisterous manner always characterised our dealings. This
being so, it naturally seemed to me quite a great event when one night I, fretful with sleepiness,
looked up at her with tearful eyes as she was taking me to bed, and saw her gaze back at me
proudly and fondly, and speak of me to a visitor then present with a certain amount of tenderness.

What struck me more particularly about her was the strange enthusiasm and almost pathetic manner
with which she spoke of the great and of the beautiful in Art. Under this heading, however,
she would never have let me suppose that she included dramatic art, but only Poetry, Music,
and Painting. Consequently, she often even threatened me with her curse should I ever express
a desire to go on the stage. Moreover, she was very religiously inclined. With intense fervour
she would often give us long sermons about God and the divine quality in man, during which,
now and again, suddenly lowering her voice in a rather funny way, she would interrupt herself
in order to rebuke one of us. After the death of our stepfather she used to assemble us all
round her bed every morning, when one of us would read out a hymn or a part of the Church service
from the prayer-book before she took her coffee. Sometimes the choice of the part to be read
was hardly appropriate, as, for instance, when my sister Clara on one occasion thoughtlessly
read the 'Prayer to be said in time of War,' and delivered it with so much expression that
my mother interrupted her, saying: 'Oh, stop! Good gracious me! Things are not quite so bad
as that. There's no war on at present!'

In spite of our limited means we had lively and--as they appeared to my boyish imagination--even
brilliant evening parties sometimes. After the death of my stepfather, who, thanks to his success
as a portrait painter, in the later years of his life had raised his income to what for those
days was a really decent total, many agreeable acquaintances of very good social position whom
he had made during this flourishing period still remained on friendly terms with us, and would
occasionally join us at our evening gatherings. Amongst those who came were the members of
the Court Theatre, who at that time gave very charming and highly entertaining parties of their
own, which, on my return to Dresden later on, I found had been altogether given up.

Very delightful, too, were the picnics arranged between us and our friends at some of the beautiful
spots around Dresden, for these excursions were always brightened by a certain artistic spirit
and general good cheer. I remember one such outing we arranged to Loschwitz, where we made
a kind of gypsy camp, in which Carl Maria von Weber played his part in the character of cook.
At home we also had some music. My sister Rosalie played the piano, and Clara was beginning
to sing. Of the various theatrical performances we organised in those early days, often after
elaborate preparation, with the view of amusing ourselves on the birthdays of our elders, I
can hardly remember one, save a parody on the romantic play of Sappho, by Grillparzer, in which
I took part as one of the singers in the crowd that preceded Phaon's triumphal car. I endeavoured
to revive these memories by means of a fine puppet show, which I found among the effects of
my late stepfather, and for which he himself had painted some beautiful scenery. It was my
intention to surprise my people by means of a brilliant performance on this little stage. After
I had very clumsily made several puppets, and had provided them with a scanty wardrobe made
from cuttings of material purloined from my sisters, I started to compose a chivalric drama,
in which I proposed to rehearse my puppets. When I had drafted the first scene, my sisters
happened to discover the MS. and literally laughed it to scorn, and, to my great annoyance,
for a long time afterwards they chaffed me by repeating one particular sentence which I had
put into the mouth of the heroine, and which was--Ich hore schon den Ritter trapsen ('I hear
his knightly footsteps falling'). I now returned with renewed ardour to the theatre, with which,
even at this time, my family was in close touch. Den Freischutz in particular appealed very
strongly to my imagination, mainly on account of its ghostly theme. The emotions of terror
and the dread of ghosts formed quite an important factor in the development of my mind. From
my earliest childhood certain mysterious and uncanny things exercised an enormous influence
over me. If I were left alone in a room for long, I remember that, when gazing at lifeless
objects such as pieces of furniture, and concentrating my attention upon them, I would suddenly
shriek out with fright, because they seemed to me alive. Even during the latest years of my
boyhood, not a night passed without my waking out of some ghostly dream and uttering the most
frightful shrieks, which subsided only at the sound of some human voice. The most severe rebuke
or even chastisement seemed to me at those times no more than a blessed release. None of my
brothers or sisters would sleep anywhere near me. They put me to sleep as far as possible away
from the others, without thinking that my cries for help would only be louder and longer; but
in the end they got used even to this nightly disturbance.

In connection with this childish terror, what attracted me so strongly to the theatre--by which
I mean also the stage, the rooms behind the scenes, and the dressing-rooms--was not so much
the desire for entertainment and amusement such as that which impels the present-day theatre-goers,
but the fascinating pleasure of finding myself in an entirely different atmosphere, in a world
that was purely fantastic and often gruesomely attractive. Thus to me a scene, even a wing,
representing a bush, or some costume or characteristic part of it, seemed to come from another
world, to be in some way as attractive as an apparition, and I felt that contact with it might
serve as a lever to lift me from the dull reality of daily routine to that delightful region
of spirits. Everything connected with a theatrical performance had for me the charm of mystery,
it both bewitched and fascinated me, and while I was trying, with the help of a few playmates,
to imitate the performance of Der Freischutz, and to devote myself energetically to reproducing
the needful costumes and masks in my grotesque style of painting, the more elegant contents
of my sisters' wardrobes, in the beautifying of which I had often seen the family occupied,
exercised a subtle charm over my imagination; nay, my heart would beat madly at the very touch
of one of their dresses.

In spite of the fact that, as I already mentioned, our family was not given to outward manifestations
of affection, yet the fact that I was brought up entirely among feminine surroundings must
necessarily have influenced the development of the sensitive side of my nature. Perhaps it
was precisely because my immediate circle was generally rough and impetuous, that the opposite
characteristics of womanhood, especially such as were connected with the imaginary world of
the theatre, created a feeling of such tender longing in me.

Luckily these fantastic humours, merging from the gruesome into the mawkish, were counteracted
and balanced by more serious influences undergone at school at the hands of my teachers and
schoolfellows. Even there, it was chiefly the weird that aroused my keenest interest. I can
hardly judge whether I had what would be called a good head for study. I think that, in general,
what I really liked I was soon able to grasp without much effort, whereas I hardly exerted
myself at all in the study of subjects that were uncongenial. This characteristic was most
marked in regard to arithmetic and, later on, mathematics. In neither of these subjects did
I ever succeed in bringing my mind seriously to bear upon the tasks that were set me. In the
matter of the Classics, too, I paid only just as much attention as was absolutely necessary
to enable me to get a grasp of them; for I was stimulated by the desire to reproduce them to
myself dramatically. In this way Greek particularly attracted me, because the stories from
Greek mythology so seized upon my fancy that I tried to imagine their heroes as speaking to
me in their native tongue, so as to satisfy my longing for complete familiarity with them.
In these circumstances it will be readily understood that the grammar of the language seemed
to me merely a tiresome obstacle, and by no means in itself an interesting branch of knowledge.

The fact that my study of languages was never very thorough, perhaps best explains the fact
that I was afterwards so ready to cease troubling about them altogether. Not until much later
did this study really begin to interest me again, and that was only when I learnt to understand
its physiological and philosophical side, as it was revealed to our modern Germanists by the
pioneer work of Jakob Grimm. Then, when it was too late to apply myself thoroughly to a study
which at last I had learned to appreciate, I regretted that this newer conception of the study
of languages had not yet found acceptance in our colleges when I was younger.

Nevertheless, by my successes in philological work I managed to attract the attention of a
young teacher at the Kreuz Grammar School, a Master of Arts named Sillig, who proved very helpful
to me. He often permitted me to visit him and show him my work, consisting of metric translations
and a few original poems, and he always seemed very pleased with my efforts in recitation.
What he thought of me may best be judged perhaps from the fact that he made me, as a boy of
about twelve, recite not only 'Hector's Farewell' from the Iliad, but even Hamlet's celebrated
monologue. On one occasion, when I was in the fourth form of the school, one of my schoolfellows,
a boy named Starke, suddenly fell dead, and the tragic event aroused so much sympathy, that
not only did the whole school attend the funeral, but the headmaster also ordered that a poem
should be written in commemoration of the ceremony, and that this poem should be published.
Of the various poems submitted, among which there was one by myself, prepared very hurriedly,
none seemed to the master worthy of the honour which he had promised, and he therefore announced
his intention of substituting one of his own speeches in the place of our rejected attempts.
Much distressed by this decision, I quickly sought out Professor Sillig, with the view of urging
him to intervene on behalf of my poem. We thereupon went through it together. Its well-constructed
and well-rhymed verses, written in stanzas of eight lines, determined him to revise the whole
of it carefully. Much of its imagery was bombastic, and far beyond the conception of a boy
of my age. I recollect that in one part I had drawn extensively from the monologue in Addison's
Cato, spoken by Cato just before his suicide. I had met with this passage in an English grammar,
and it had made a deep impression upon me. However, I felt very grateful to him, for, thanks
to the care and rapidity with which he cleared my poem of these extravagances, it was eventually
accepted by the headmaster, printed, and widely circulated.

The effect of this success was extraordinary, both on my schoolfellows and on my own family.
My mother devoutly folded her hands in thankfulness, and in my own mind my vocation seemed
quite a settled thing. It was clear, beyond the possibility of a doubt, that I was destined
to be a poet. Professor Sillig wished me to compose a grand epic, and suggested as a subject
'The Battle of Parnassus,' as described by Pausanias. His reasons for this choice were based
upon the legend related by Pausanias, viz., that in the second century B.C. the Muses from
Parnassus aided the combined Greek armies against the destructive invasion of the Gauls by
provoking a panic among the latter. I actually began my heroic poem in hexameter verse, but
could not get through the first canto.

Not being far enough advanced in the language to understand the Greek tragedies thoroughly
in the original, my own attempts to construct a tragedy in the Greek form were greatly influenced
by the fact that quite by accident I came across August Apel's clever imitation of this style
in his striking poems 'Polyidos' and 'Aitolier.' For my theme I selected the death of Ulysses,
from a fable of Hyginus, according to which the aged hero is killed by his son, the offspring
of his union with Calypso. But I did not get very far with this work either, before I gave it up.

My mind became so bent upon this sort of thing, that duller studies naturally ceased to interest
me. The mythology, legends, and, at last, the history of Greece alone attracted me.

I was fond of life, merry with my companions, and always ready for a joke or an adventure.
Moreover, I was constantly forming friendships, almost passionate in their ardour, with one
or the other of my comrades, and in choosing my associates I was mainly influenced by the extent
to which my new acquaintance appealed to my eccentric imagination. At one time it would be
poetising and versifying that decided my choice of a friend; at another, theatrical enterprises,
while now and then it would be a longing for rambling and mischief.

Furthermore, when I reached my thirteenth year, a great change came over our family affairs.
My sister Rosalie, who had become the chief support of our household, obtained an advantageous
engagement at the theatre in Prague, whither mother and children removed in 1820, thus giving
up the Dresden home altogether. I was left behind in Dresden, so that I might continue to attend
the Kreuz Grammar School until I was ready to go up to the university. I was therefore sent
to board and lodge with a family named Bohme, whose sons I had known at school, and in whose
house I already felt quite at home. With my residence in this somewhat rough, poor, and not
particularly well-conducted family, my years of dissipation began. I no longer enjoyed the
quiet retirement necessary for work, nor the gentle, spiritual influence of my sisters' companionship.
On the contrary, I was plunged into a busy, restless life, full of rough horseplay and of quarrels.
Nevertheless, it was there that I began to experience the influence of the gentler sex in a
manner hitherto unknown to me, as the grown-up daughters of the family and their friends often
filled the scanty and narrow rooms of the house. Indeed, my first recollections of boyish love
date from this period. I remember a very beautiful young girl, whose name, if I am not mistaken,
was Amalie Hoffmann, coming to call at the house one Sunday. She was charmingly dressed, and
her appearance as she came into the room literally struck me dumb with amazement. On other
occasions I recollect pretending to be too helplessly sleepy to move, so that I might be carried
up to bed by the girls, that being, as they thought, the only remedy for my condition. And
I repeated this, because I found, to my surprise, that their attention under these circumstances
brought me into closer and more gratifying proximity with them.

The most important event during this year of separation from my family was, however, a short
visit I paid to them in Prague. In the middle of the winter my mother came to Dresden, and
took me hack with her to Prague for a week. Her way of travelling was quite unique. To the
end of her days she preferred the more dangerous mode of travelling in a hackney carriage to
the quicker journey by mail-coach, so that we spent three whole days in the bitter cold on
the road from Dresden to Prague. The journey over the Bohemian mountains often seemed to be
beset with the greatest dangers, but happily we survived our thrilling adventures and at last
arrived in Prague, where I was suddenly plunged into entirely new surroundings.

For a long time the thought of leaving Saxony on another visit to Bohemia, and especially Prague,
had had quite a romantic attraction for me. The foreign nationality, the broken German of the
people, the peculiar headgear of the women, the native wines, the harp-girls and musicians,
and finally, the ever present signs of Catholicism, its numerous chapels and shrines, all produced
on me a strangely exhilarating impression. This was probably due to my craze for everything
theatrical and spectacular, as distinguished from simple bourgeois customs. Above all, the
antique splendour and beauty of the incomparable city of Prague became indelibly stamped on
my fancy. Even in my own family surroundings I found attractions to which I had hitherto been
a stranger. For instance, my sister Ottilie, only two years older than myself, had won the
devoted friendship of a noble family, that of Count Pachta, two of whose daughters, Jenny and
Auguste, who had long been famed as the leading beauties of Prague, had become fondly attached
to her. To me, such people and such a connection were something quite novel and enchanting.
Besides these, certain beaux esprits of Prague, among them W. Marsano, a strikingly handsome
and charming man, were frequent visitors at our house. They often earnestly discussed the tales
of Hoffmann, which at that date were comparatively new, and had created some sensation. It
was now that I made my first though rather superficial acquaintance with this romantic visionary,
and so received a stimulus which influenced me for many years even to the point of infatuation,
and gave me very peculiar ideas of the world.

In the following spring, 1827, I repeated this journey from Dresden to Prague, but this time
on foot, and accompanied by my friend Rudolf Bohme. Our tour was full of adventure. We got
to within an hour of Teplitz the first night, and next day we had to get a lift in a wagon,
as we had walked our feet sore; yet this only took us as far as Lowositz, as our funds had
quite run out. Under a scorching sun, hungry and half-fainting, we wandered along bypaths through
absolutely unknown country, until at sundown we happened to reach the main road just as an
elegant travelling coach came in sight. I humbled my pride so far as to pretend I was a travelling
journeyman, and begged the distinguished travellers for alms, while my friend timidly hid himself
in the ditch by the roadside. Luckily we decided to seek shelter for the night in an inn, where
we took counsel whether we should spend the alms just received on a supper or a bed. We decided
for the supper, proposing to spend the night under the open sky. While we were refreshing ourselves,
a strange-looking wayfarer entered. He wore a black velvet skull-cap, to which a metal lyre
was attached like a cockade, and on his back he bore a harp. Very cheerfully he set down his
instrument, made himself comfortable, and called for a good meal. He intended to stay the night,
and to continue his way next day to Prague, where he lived, and whither he was returning from
Hanover.

My good spirits and courage were stimulated by the jovial manners of this merry fellow, who
constantly repeated his favourite motto, 'non plus ultra.' We soon struck up an acquaintance,
and in return for my confidence, the strolling player's attitude to me was one of almost touching
sympathy. It was agreed that we should continue our journey together next day on foot. He lent
me two twenty-kreutzer pieces (about ninepence), and allowed me to write my Prague address
in his pocket-book. I was highly delighted at this personal success. My harpist grew extravagantly
merry; a good deal of Czernosek wine was drunk; he sang and played on his harp like a madman,
continually reiterating his 'non plus ultra' till at last, overcome with wine, he fell down
on the straw, which had been spread out on the floor for our common bed. When the sun once
more peeped in, we could not rouse him, and we had to make up our minds to set off in the freshness
of the early morning without him, feeling convinced that the sturdy fellow would overtake us
during the day. But it was in vain that we looked out for him on the road and during our subsequent
stay in Prague. Indeed, it was not until several weeks later that the extraordinary fellow
turned up at my mother's, not so much to collect payment of his loan, as to inquire about the
welfare of the young friend to whom that loan had been made.

The remainder of our journey was very fatiguing, and the joy I felt when I at last beheld Prague
from the summit of a hill, at about an hour's distance, simply beggars description. Approaching
the suburbs, we were for the second time met by a splendid carriage, from which my sister Ottilie's
two lovely friends called out to me in astonishment. They had recognised me immediately, in
spite of my terribly sunburnt face, blue linen blouse, and bright red cotton cap. Overwhelmed
with shame, and with my heart beating like mad, I could hardly utter a word, and hurried away
to my mother's to attend at once to the restoration of my sunburnt complexion. To this task
I devoted two whole days, during which I swathed my face in parsley poultices; and not till
then did I seek the pleasures of society. When, on the return journey, I looked back once more
on Prague from the same hilltop, I burst into tears, flung myself on the earth, and for a long
time could not be induced by my astonished companion to pursue the journey. I was downcast
for the rest of the way, and we arrived home in Dresden without any further adventures.

During the same year I again gratified my fancy for long excursions on foot by joining a numerous
company of grammar school boys, consisting of pupils of several classes and of various ages,
who had decided to spend their summer holidays in a tour to Leipzig. This journey also stands
out among the memories of my youth, by reason of the strong impressions it left behind. The
characteristic feature of our party was that we all aped the student, by behaving and dressing
extravagantly in the most approved student fashion. After going as far as Meissen on the market-boat,
our path lay off the main road, through villages with which I was as yet unfamiliar. We spent
the night in the vast barn of a village inn, and our adventures were of the wildest description.
There we saw a large marionette show, with almost life-sized figures. Our entire party settled
themselves in the auditorium, where their presence was a source of some anxiety to the managers,
who had only reckoned on an audience of peasants. Genovefa was the play given. The ceaseless
silly jests, and constant interpolations and jeering interruptions, in which our corps of embryo-students
indulged, finally aroused the anger even of the peasants, who had come prepared to weep. I
believe I was the only one of our party who was pained by these impertinences, and in spite
of involuntary laughter at some of my comrades' jokes, I not only defended the play itself,
but also its original, simple-minded audience. A popular catch-phrase which occurred in the
piece has ever since remained stamped on my memory. 'Golo' instructs the inevitable Kaspar
that, when the Count Palatine returns home, he must 'tickle him behind, so that he should feel
it in front' (hinten zu kitzeln, dass er es vorne fuhle). Kaspar conveys Golo's order verbatim
to the Count, and the latter reproaches the unmasked rogue in the following terms, uttered
with the greatest pathos: 'O Golo, Golo! thou hast told Kaspar to tickle me behind, so that
I shall feel it in front!'

From Grimma our party rode into Leipzig in open carriages, but not until we had first carefully
removed all the outward emblems of the undergraduate, lest the local students we were likely
to meet might make us rue our presumption.

Since my first visit, when I was eight years old, I had only once returned to Leipzig, and
then for a very brief stay, and under circumstances very similar to those of the earlier visit.
I now renewed my fantastic impressions of the Thome house, but this time, owing to my more
advanced education, I looked forward to more intelligent intercourse with my uncle Adolph.
An opening for this was soon provided by my joyous astonishment on learning that a bookcase
in the large anteroom, containing a goodly collection of books, was my property, having been
left me by my father. I went through the books with my uncle, selected at once a number of
Latin authors in the handsome Zweibruck edition, along with sundry attractive looking works
of poetry and belles-lettres, and arranged for them to be sent to Dresden. During this visit
I was very much interested in the life of the students. In addition to my impressions of the
theatre and of Prague, now came those of the so-called swaggering undergraduate. A great change
had taken place in this class. When, as a lad of eight, I had my first glimpse of students,
their long hair, their old German costume with the black velvet skull-cap and the shirt collar
turned back from the bare neck, had quite taken my fancy. But since that time the old student
'associations' which affected this fashion had disappeared in the face of police prosecutions.
On the other hand, the national student clubs, no less peculiar to Germans, had become conspicuous.
These clubs adopted, more or less, the fashion of the day, but with some little exaggeration.
Albeit, their dress was clearly distinguishable from that of other classes, owing to its picturesqueness,
and especially its display of the various club-colours. The 'Comment,' that compendium of pedantic
rules of conduct for the preservation of a defiant and exclusive esprit de corps, as opposed
to the bourgeois classes, had its fantastic side, just as the most philistine peculiarities
of the Germans have, if you probe them deeply enough. To me it represented the idea of emancipation
from the yoke of school and family. The longing to become a student coincided unfortunately
with my growing dislike for drier studies and with my ever- increasing fondness for cultivating
romantic poetry. The results of this soon showed themselves in my resolute attempts to make
a change.

