VOL. I.--NO. 38.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIGGEST BLACKBERRY PICKER.

BY W. O. STODDARD.

Dot Calliper had come out on the mountain-side, with all the rest of them, after blackberries.

She had picked her little pail full industriously, but she was too fat and too small to climb
any further among the rocks and stumps and bushes, so they had left her there, in the shade
of the great chestnut-tree, to watch the milk-pails.

Not that there was any milk in them just now, for all three of them were more than half full
of great, plump, overgrown berries--blackberries, and the best and largest anybody had ever
seen among those mountains. Such a season for berries!

There had been a great fire three years before, and it had burned the woods away, and nobody
knew where the blackberry bushes had come from, but they had moved right in as if the country
belonged to them, and they had climbed all over everything.

Dot sat by her pails and looked around, and she was half sorry all the berries near her had
been picked and put into the big pails.

All the rest, even Johnny Coyne and Pen Burke, had little pails or else baskets, except Dot's
big brother Bob, and he was now away up the mountain-side with a pail that would hold almost
as much as a milk-pail.

Dot knew where the others were picking, for they didn't keep still a minute. Jessie Mack and
Betsy were down among the rocks at her right, and Molly Calliper was with the boys up there
on the left.

Dot was not in the least afraid at being alone, but she did wish she was hungry enough to eat
some more berries.

She thought of it, and she tried to, but it was of no use, for all the while she had been picking
she had put one berry in her rosy little mouth every time she had put another in her little
tin pail.

"Oh, so much berries!" sighed Dot. "They're all our berries, too."

Yes, and Mrs. Calliper meant to dry them all and sell them, and buy some things for Dot and
Molly and the baby. Bob had said that he meant to sell his own berries and buy him a new gun.

Want of appetite was the trouble with Dot; but there was somebody else in there, among the
thickest of those bushes, picking, picking, picking, and eating every one he picked, and that
fellow had never seen an hour in all his life when he could not have eaten some more blackberries.

An enormous fellow he was, and fatter for his size than Dot Calliper was for hers. He did not
look at all ill-natured, and there was even a sort of funny twinkle in his little black eyes,
as he pulled the branches full of fruit to his mouth with his great clumsy-looking paws.

They were not half so clumsy as they looked, and they were armed with long, sharp, cruel claws
that were bent in a curve, like the teeth of the big shell comb Dot's mother bought of the
peddler for her back hair. Then, too, when his mouth opened wide, as it did when he made one
of his lazy, sleepy yawns, the teeth he showed were something dreadful to look at. Teeth of
that size were never needed for eating such things as blackberries. They looked a great deal
more as if they were meant for eating Dot Callipers.

He was evidently very fond of berries, and did not seem to have any doubt but what they all
belonged to him. It was just as if he had offered a prize that summer for the bush that would
bear the most blackberries, and was now going around among them to see which had won it. Every
bush he came to just held out its branches for him to look at; but if Dot had been watching
him, she would have seen at once that the fat old rascal never seemed to count the berries
at all, but just gathered and swallowed them. How would he be able to tell, when he was done,
which bush had done the best for him?

But Dot was not watching him. She had not even seen him yet, and she did not know he was there
till he made a great crash among the bushes, when his foot slipped, and he rolled down through
half a dozen of them.

"Bob," exclaimed Dot, "is that you? Did you tumble down?"

There was no answer, and she asked again, "Bob, did you 'pill your berries?"

Then she thought she heard something like a grunt, such as the pigs made when they were rooting
in the garden, and she and Bob went to drive them out, and she said, "Oh, the pids are come!
they'll pick all our berries."

Then there came more rustling and crashing among the bushes, and then Dot jumped up and got
behind the three big pails, for it was not anything like a pig that came out and began to walk
toward the chestnut-tree.

"Oh dear me!" whispered the frightened Dot. "I daren't 'peak to him."

Neither did he say a word to her. He did not even tell her his name was Bruin, and that he
was fond of blackberries, but he walked straight forward, and his little black eyes were twinkling
more brightly than ever.

As fast as he came forward Dot stepped back, till she stood right against the tree, and then
she slipped around behind it, and began to feel that she was perfectly safe.

Bruin looked into one pail after another, as if he saw at once that all the bushes were beaten,
and was trying to decide to which of the pails the prize belonged.

"Bob! Bob!" screamed Dot, at the top of her little voice, "there's a bear come, and he's 'tealing
our berries."

He was eating them up very fast, that was a fact--for all the world as if they had been picked
for his benefit.

Perhaps he would have liked them better with plenty of milk and sugar, but he did not ask Dot
for anything of the kind. He just sat down on the grass, and took a big pail up in his lap
with his clumsy fore-paws, and then lifted it high enough to bury half his head in it.

Dot saw that he knew exactly how to eat blackberries out of a milk-pail, and she felt sure
they would not last him long.

"Molly! Jessie! Betsy! Johnny Coyne! Pen Burke! the bear's 'tealing the berries!"

The other children heard her, and they all began to scream together: "Bear! bear! He's eating
up Dot and the berries."

Bruin had not so much as said a cross word to Dot, although it was true that he had not thanked
her for the berries; but he was just lifting the second pail to his mouth, when Dot's big brother
Bob heard the screaming, and came hurrying down the hill toward the chestnut-tree.

"Der's one pail left, but he's eat up the odders," said Dot, excitedly, as Bob sprang out of
the nearest bushes; but to her surprise he did not pay the least attention to the berries or
the bear. He just caught up Dot herself in his strong arms, and ran away with her.

"Bob, did you lose your pail?"

"Boys! Betsy! Molly!" shouted Bob, "run! run!"

They did run; but they were not like Bob, for every one of them kept tight hold of their berry
pails. They could not run fast among so many rocks and bushes, but they could scramble, and
they had not gone far before they heard a great rough voice near them shouting,

"Hullo! What's arter ye all? Did ye git skeered?"

"Joe--Joe Mix!" exclaimed Bob. "The biggest bear you ever saw in your life. Ain't I glad you've
got your gun along!"

"Bar? Whar?"

"Up among the blackberries."

"And I haven't a bullet nor a buckshot; nothin' but small shot. Tell ye what, Bob. Drap that
little one. The bar won't foller ye. You jest run for the house and git yer gun, and tell yer
father, and have him come along, and bring some buckshot and slugs for me. Bars is fat now,
and we'll jest gather this one."

Bob was putting Dot on the ground, when she said to him,

"Make the bear div back the pails, too."

While Bob was gone, Joe Mix made Dot tell him all about it, but he said,

"I guess I won't go ahead and scare him off; he'll stay and pick around."

"He'll pick all our berries."

