       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNIVERSAL VENT.

(For Vacuity, Vanity, Verbosity, Virulence, and Venom.)

  IF you've been burning the midnight taper,
  And of new policies deem yourself shaper;
  If at the world you're a green-gosling gaper,
  Or of old "JUNIUS," juvenile aper;
  Bumptious Scotch Duke, or irate Irish Draper,
  Crammed with conceit, which must publicly caper;
  Angry old woman, or frivolous japer;
  Thraso or termagant, Tadpole or Taper,
  To blow off your steam, or your gas, or your vapour,
  There's one fool-loved fashion--'tis write to the paper!

       *       *       *       *       *

"I AM in a state of suspense," said a Clergyman. "I am sorry to hear it," replied his friend.
"Why are you suspended?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.

(Fragments of a Discourse, delivered under the similitude of a Dream, but of symbolic and purely
secular significance.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, at the end of this Valley of Obstruction was another, called the Valley of the Shadow
of Disunion; and the Pilgrim must needs go through it, because the way to the Plain of Progress
and the Pinnacle of Passage lay through the midst of it.

Now this Valley is a very perilous place,--a place where none care to dwell, and which few
attain to pass through. And here the Pilgrim was worse put to it than in his previous encounter
with the Apollyon of Obstruction.

I saw then in my dream that when the Pilgrim was got to the borders of the Shadow of Disunion,
there met him certain men, aforetime his fellow-travellers, making haste to go back; to whom
the Pilgrim spake as follows:---

Pilgrim. Whither are you going?

Men. Back again! And we would have you do so too, if either life, peace, or honour is prized
by you.

Pilgrim. Why, what's the matter?

Men. Matter? We were going that way as you are going, and went as far as we durst; and indeed
we were almost past coming back.

Pilgrim. But what have you met with?

Men. Why, we were almost in the Valley of the Shadow of Disunion, where abide Disruption, Dishonour,
and Disaster, but that, by good hap, keeping a BRIGHT look-out, we looked before us, and saw
the danger ere we came to it.

Pilgrim. But what have you seen?

Men. Seen? In a word, it is every whit dreadful, being utterly without Law and Order.

Pilgrim. Nevertheless I perceive not yet, by what you have said, but that this is my way to
the desired haven.

Men. Be it thy way--we will not choose it for ours! Again, behold, on the left hand, there
was a very dangerous quag or bog, into which if even a good, or grand, man falls, he finds
no bottom for his foot to stand on.

"Now," thought the Pilgrim, "what shall I do?" So he resolved to go on; yet the bogies, hobgoblins,
and dragons of the pit seemed to come nearer and nearer, besetting him with boding warnings,
angry expostulations, and menacing outcries from both sides of his strait and perilous pathway,
as well from the bog that was on the one hand, as from the ditch that was on the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

And here, as it seemed, my Dream did lapse and intermit, and I lost sight, for a while, of
the Pilgrim and his perils, much musing whether he, though verily valiant and of manifest good
will, were wise in making this dangerous adventure, or at all like to fare safely through and
escape the ditch, the bog, the darkness, and the demoniac denizens of this dismal Valley of
the Shadow of Disunion.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERA DRURIOLANA.

May success attend the preliminary Operatic canter which Sir DRURIOLANUS is taking with such
preliminary cantors as he has got together at Drury Lane. Faust was effectively given, with
ESTHER PALLISER as a gentle Marguerite, Signor GIANNINI as a very robust Faust--quite a tenore
robusto--and Signor CASTELMARY as the very deuce of a Mephistopheles, with eyebrows and moustachios
sufficient to frighten even the gay and festive Marta, played with spirit by Mlle. BIANCOLI.
"Mons." DUFRICHE represented the Mons who laboured hard to please, and who, as Valentine, did
well and died well. Herr FELD conducted. "Well Felded!"

Then out came the ever fresh, the ever free Bohemian Girl. Never was such a girl! Quite a NINON
DE L'ENCLOS! Beautiful for ever! Still dreaming of Marble Halls (Music Halls nowadays) "with
vassals and serfs by her si-i-ide," and no better Bohemian Girl to be seen just now than Madame
ALBU as Arline. So "Arl in to begin!" and see and hear BALFE'S pretty little Girl of Bohemia
while she is still visible and audible at Drury Lane. Mr. EADIE a trifle gawky as Thaddeus,
but then he finds himself in an awkward situation, especially when he has to fumble for the
documentary evidence of his birth, attested at a Bohemian Registry Office. CARL ARMBRUSTER
conducted this, and then up got Herr FELD "with his little lot," represented by the unrivalled
and unequalled Cavalleria Rusticana. Ah! Cavalleria is a treat, even when its performance is
not absolutely perfect. The music is charming from first to last; ever fresh and delightful.

That wonderful Intermezzo was excellently given, and enthusiastically encored. As yet the Intermezzo
has had no successful rival. It stands alone, and is, of all compositions, the most--well,
words fail me--it is a whole dramatic story, within a few bars' compass--it is sweetness and
sadness, and then it soothes you to rest, and so you drop off quietly to sleep, until you are
awoke by the cessation of sound, when you rouse yourself, with an effort, to applaud, and to
beg that you may have just one more delicious dose of it--and doze from it. Saturday finishes
with Carmen, and Sic transit gloria Operatica for the past week. All right up to now!

MUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPORTING ANSWERS.--CANINE.

SPECTATOR.--A very curious and interesting little story. We ourselves once had a dog who on
returning home from a walk always chained himself up in the back-kitchen and bit the butler.
He would then howl bitterly, slip his collar, and run to the nearest police station, where
he gave himself into custody and insisted on cleaning out his own cell and appearing on the
following morning before the Magistrate. This shows that dogs can reason. Our dog eventually
died of being constantly quoted by Curates a Temperance Lectures. This was disappointing, as
we had never grudged him either attention or butlers. One of our butlers had a cork leg,--but
that is another story.

SUB SILENTIO.--(1) A dog's chief value is conversational. At afternoon teas such an animal
is a wonderful resource after you have exhausted the picture-shows, the theatres, and all the
scandals. You can lead off about his pedigree. "He's champion bred on both sides," always sounds
well. A funny man is sure to say, "Champion bread-and-butter you mean. Ha! ha!" at the same
time offering the animal some from the tea-table, to mark his point. This may be previously
arranged, if you prefer it. Throw in a few stories about his wonderful intelligence in distinguishing
the baker's boy from the mistress of the house, to the detriment of the former, and wind up
by narrating how he once found his way home to Piccadilly from Pekin. All dogs do this in one
way or another, so you will be quite safe. Then everybody else contributes his own special
Spectatorial dog-story, and your tea will pass off without a dull or an accurate moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW NOT TO DO IT.

(Act from a Farce ready for Performance pending the settlement of the Labour Question.)

SCENE--Interior of a Provided Work Office. Benevolent Organiser discovered looking over a list.

Ben. Org. Yes, I think this will do very well indeed. New pump, fresh road. Ought to keep them
going comfortably through the rest of the winter. (Enter Unemployed.) Well, my good man, and
what do you want?

Unemployed (in a whining tone). Me and my mates, Sir, are out of work. It's no fault of ours,
and----

Ben. Org. Well, we will see what we can do.

Unem. Thankee kindly, Sir, I'm sure 'arf a sufferin, or even 'arf a dollar----

Ben. Org. (ignoring this suggestion). Now, let me see--what's your trade?

Unem. A watch-maker. So you see, as the Press says, you can't send me to mend roads, or build
pumps.

Ben. Org. No, no. I have overlooked your class. But stay--I think I can forward you to a friend.
Let me see, what time is it? (Produces watch, and lets it fall.) Dear me! It has stopped, as
I live! (With vivacity.) My dear fellow, here is a chance for you. You shall mend it.

Unem. (freshening up). Only too pleased to take your watch.

[Possesses himself of the time-piece, and exit hurriedly.

Enter Constable with Unemployed in custody.

Constable. This your watch, Sir?

Unem. (rapidly). Which was given to me by the kind gentleman to mend. But I gladly return it,
as me and my mates have determined not to do any more work for fear that we should injure our
brothers who are doing nothing. [Exit.

Constable. Lucky I kept my eye upon him, Sir. If I hadn't, you would never have seen him again--nor
your watch either.

Ben. Org. Is there so much guile in the world?

Con. Yes, Sir, a pretty fine lot. But I can't stand palavering or those rowdies loafing around
will pull the house about our ears. When the Unemployed are idle, the police have enough to
do! Ponder over it, Sir; ponder over it! [Curtain, and Ben. Organiser left pondering.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VELL VORN MOTTO.--In his sound and sensible reply to a congratulatory address, H. E. Cardinal
VAUGHAN suggested "Amare et servire" as the motto for the Christian capitalist. To the first
verb the capitalist would, it is probable, make no objection; but as to the second, he would
be inclined to move as an amendment, that, "for 'i' in servire should be substituted 'a'."
At all events, Amare et servare is the narrower view taken on the broader of the two roads in life.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHOR! AUTHOR!--Mr. J. L. TOOLE advertises that in consequence of "the Phenomenal Success"
of Walker--London, it is to be kept going throughout the season. Excellent. But, for the sake
of Mr. J. M. BARRIE, its talented author, it is to be hoped that the conditions of the performance
of his popular play are not "fee nominal." But for this J. L. T.--which initials stand for
Jenerous Lavish TOOLE--will have already made ample provision.

DOUBLE BALLADE OF PROPER NAMES.

  I've met (in wax) VOLTAIRE,
    The atheist, TOM PAINE,
  The "blatant beast," HÉBERT,
    Called also "Père DUCHÊNE";
    The bluff Sir HARRY VANE,
  The boys' delight, DEFOE,
    Brave ABRAHAM DUQUESNE,
  And "BAYARD" OUDINOT.

  Fell "JEAN qui rit" BARRÈRE,
    The Tartar, TAMERLANE,
  The "sea-green" ROBESPIERRE,
    The sportive "Pea-Green" HAYNE.
    The boxer, "Big Ben" BRAIN,
  The convert, BENDIGO,
    The social WALTER CRANE,
  And gay BOCCACCIO.

  The gloomy BAUDELAIRE,
    The wise Professor BAIN,
  Truth-loving LABOUCHERE,
    The anatomic QUAIN,
    The dramatist, SEDAINE;
  The polished MARIVAUX,
    The able critic, TAINE,
  And keen LA ROCHEFOUCAULD.

  The learnèd brothers HARE,
    The "mummer," JOHN MACLEAN,
  The dismal poet, BLAIR,
    The funny CORNEY GRAIN;
    That "innocent," MARK TWAIN,
  The Spaniard, CANDAMO,
    The gentle JULIAN FANE,
  And EDGAR ALLAN POE.

  The perjured knight, MACAIRE,
    The recreant BAZAINE,
  The pious LACORDAIRE,
    The Anglophobist, BLAINE;
    The rebel Gen'ral WAYNE,
  The gen'rous WATERLOW,
    The "good time coming" SWAIN,
  And wise old CICERO.

  The Dutch sea-dog, LE MAIRE,
    The warlike Prince EUGÈNE,
  The gallant Earl of STAIR;
    Grim PHILIP, King of Spain,
    Our Saxon ATHELSTANE,
  The false queen, ISABEAU,
    The nine days queen, Queen JANE,
  And Madame D'HOUDETOT.

    My Lady CASTLEMAINE,
  The ghostly Mrs. CROWE,
    The fleshy EVELEEN RAYNE,
  And Mrs. BEECHER STOWE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.

House of Commons, Thursday, April 6.--Met again after so-called Easter Holidays. Mr. G. early
in his place, looking as blooming as the Spring flower in his buttonhole. "The BRIGHT 'UN from
Brighton," was MARJORIBANKS'S way of announcing the Chief, as he entered from behind SPEAKER'S
Chair. Spoke for hour-and-half on moving Second Reading of Home-Rule Bill. General impression
is everything possible been already said on subject. This conviction so deeply impressed that
Members will not come back to resume Debate. Benches only half full whilst Mr. G. delivering
what will rank as historic speech. Situation accepted to extent that ten days or fortnight
must be given up to Second-Reading Debate. Wouldn't be respectful, or even decent, to dispose
of stage of such a measure in less time. Well known that this Sahara of observation will not
influence single vote. If arrangements had been made with due notice to take division to-night,
after Mr. G. had urged Second Reading of Bill, and HICKS-BEACH had moved rejection, the majority
would have been exactly the same as it will be a fortnight hence, when end is reached after
multitudinous talk. Not by a vote more, nor a vote less, will Government majority be varied.
Still, usual thing to talk for week or fortnight upon Bill of this kind. House will not fail
in its duty to QUEEN and Country. A dolorous prospect, judging from to-night's experience.
Mr. G. kept audience well together. Members increased as he spoke; but when ST. MICHAEL rose,
audience dispersed like leaves in wintry weather.

"An excellent fellow BEACH," said CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, "But in his House of Commons speech always
gives one the idea that, through a blameless existence, he has been rolled upon by the melancholy
ocean."

Certainly his speech has depressing effect. Members, with one consent, go out to think over
what he is probably going to say. Convenient arrangement for them, but does not add to hilarity
of proceedings, or vary impression CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN'S figure of speech conveys.

After BEACH, BIRRELL, with a new chapter of Obiter Dicta. Some of the smartest things addressed
to the empty seat where CHAMBERLAIN should have been on view. But JOSEPH not yet come up out
of Egypt. Had he been here, and House a little fuller, the new chapter would have gone off
capitally. As things turned out, there was a fatal unreality in situation, which House quick
to realise. Pretty to see Members, as BIRRELL struggled with his notes, involuntarily sniffing,
as if they recognised familiar whiff of midnight lamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"Worst of these impromptus prepared beforehand," said ST. JOHN BRODRICK, himself a master of
spontaneous speech, "is, you never know in what circumstances they may have to be delivered."

Towards midnight, some refreshment in the incursion of SWIFT MACNEILL. Came up smiling; handing
himself round, as it were, for inspection, as sample of kind of persecution of Protestants
that would follow in Ulster on enactment of Home-Rule Bill. "I'm a Protestant, Mr. SPEAKER,"
he shouted, beaming on the Chair, "and I'm sent here by a majority of 2,500 Catholic peasants
to represent an Ulster Constituency."

SWIFT MACNEILL'S smile infectious. It illumined with something of saintly halo the depressed
figure of Dr. BARTON, who, again breaking his vow of silence, confessed that yesterday he had
been enrolled as Member of an Organisation in Ulster sworn to resist Home-Rule. "I don't know,
Mr. SPEAKER," he said, in hoarse whisper, "what that act may involve, and I don't care. It
may lead to my spending the remainder of my days in penal servitude." Whereat the jaded House
merrily laughed.

Business done.--Second Reading Home-Rule Bill moved.

Friday.--A dull night, my masters. Still harping on Home Rule. Second night's debate on Second
Reading. Naturally supposed to be in heyday of vigour. But Benches empty; level of oratory
third-rate; STANSFELD a hoary Triton among the Minnows; ELLIS ASHMEAD BARTLETT (Knight) gloomily
views the scene. "Thought you were going to speak to-night?" I said, "Read the announcement
in the papers." Never forget the haughty, withering glance of ELLIS ASHMEAD.

"Sir," he said, "I talk only with my peers."

So suppose we shall have him one day next week, when CHAMBERLAIN, GRANDOLPH, and BALFOUR take
part in fray. Begins to look as if, for all practical purposes, might as well have deferred
meeting of House till Monday.

"Mr. G. a great man," says DAVITT. "Insisted upon us coming back on Thursday, to debate Home-Rule
Bill. He can do most things; he can bring a horse to the water, but he can't make him debate."

Business done.--Eight hours' talk round Home-Rule Bill.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.

INFLUENCE OF MUSIC.--I recently noticed a paragraph in a Medical Journal advising persons suffering
from Insomnia to try a musical box in their bed-rooms; and I therefore purchased a rather expensive
one, which plays six tunes, with drum and trumpet accompaniment. Something seems to have gone
wrong with the mechanism, as, after being fully wound up, it remains obstinately silent for
an hour or so, at the end of which period it suddenly starts off at break-neck speed, and repeats
one of the tunes backwards over and over again. Nothing that I can do will stop it. Could some
musical expert kindly advise in this case? After a most agitated night, due to the vagaries
of the instrument, I took it into bed with me, hoping to drown the noise; but the vibration
of the drums under the bed-clothes was terrific! I then placed the machine in my bath, and
covered it with water; but it continued to play with undiminished vigour. It is still playing.
Some Museum, or a Government engaged in sub-marine experiments, might like to have it; or it
might be suited for a Deaf and Dumb Asylum. It will be sold cheap.

  ST. CECILIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sedantary!

    ["Several carriage-makers in London have, it is said, received
    orders of late for Sedan chairs."--Daily Paper.]

  WHAT wonder if our hansom-hiring Fair
    Should now adopt a coach distinctly rarer?
  As Cabby often treats them like a bear,
    Henceforth our ladies may prefer a bearer!

       *       *       *       *       *

