When under our observation, and during our attempt to analyze her career, Libby underwent a
change of attitude and confessed thoroughly and definitely that the story about the murder
was lies all the way through.  For the sake of the poor little mother we had the girl make
a sworn statement to this effect.  It was of some little interest to us to note that the police
account given in the newspapers about the little child being beaten with a rubber hose was
derived from the story told by Libby.  It was a wonderfully dramatic and pathetic scene when
this woman met her daughter and the latter confessed to her lies and asked forgiveness.  All
the mother could say was, ``Oh, the suffering she has caused me!  But I do want her to be a
good girl.''

From the girl's long stories to us we may derive the following points of interest.  Before
her confession she was very emotional on the subject of her little sister.  She dwelled much
upon her dreams of the child, but proved self-contradictory about the matter of her death,
as well as about her own history.  Even then she began telling us what a bad girl she herself
was in various ways.  She said, ``I did not see Laura die, but I guess they did burn her up
because her finger tips were all gone and her hands were all swollen up.  Ma said she would
burn her up if she did not quit wetting the bed.  Yes, I used to worry about Laura awful. 
She always had been the trouble.  I would have been a good girl if it had not been for her.
I used to worry so fierce that I could not help from stealing and then when I stole I was scared
to go back to my jobs.  I had to have money and so I made good money by going with these fellows.
I used to feel fierce about the money I took from my mother and used to put it back and then
would say, `No, I just must have it.' ''

This girl had been working at different factories and homes since her mother's trial.  She
confessed to thieving from stores.  The stealing she had done at home was, it seems, long before
the death of the little child.  Libby made much of her mental states and of her dream-life
in talking to us.  ``I like to go to nickel shows.  I saw a sad piece once and if I feel sad
now I think about it and it makes me want to go to my mother.  I have a funny feeling about
going home.  I don't know what it is.  At night I dream about it and something keeps telling
me to go home.  I want to go to an institution now and learn to do fancy work and to be good,
and then I want to go home.''

Libby told us enough about her first father for us to know he had had a terrifically bad influence
upon her.  She also long associated with bad companions who instructed her thoroughly in the
ways of immorality.  She described attacks in which she felt weak and thought she was going
to fall, but never did.  (The young child in the family who had epilepsy was no relation whatever
to her.)  She knew that her mother had long been living with her step-father in common-law
relationship, but insisted on what was undoubtedly the truth, namely, that they were temperate
and very respectable people.  Libby never gave us any explanation for her testimony against
her mother, but acknowledged that she herself had been delinquent earlier.

The physical examination showed a normally developed girl: weight 108 lbs.; height 5 ft. 3
in.  Well shaped head and rather delicate features.  Her teeth showed a defective line in the
enamel near the gums on the incisors and the cuspids.  Bites her finger nails.  Slight irregularity
of the left pupil.  Careful examination of the eyes in other ways entirely negative.  Prompt
reaction of pupils to light.  No sensory defect of importance.  Knee jerks active.  Heart sounds
normal, and all other examination failed to show defect.  Complained of frequent headaches,
but these were not of great severity.  After information from the mother we felt that Libby's
feelings of weakness and tremblings were probably of the hysterical variety.

During the period in which we had Libby under observation she showed more or less emotional
disturbance, but even so we were able to assure ourselves that her mental ability was fair.
We did not expect good results from formal education because in her case it had been very irregular.
Many of our ability tests, however, were done well, but she failed where she was asked to demonstrate
good powers of concentration and attention.  We noted that she showed a very eager attitude
toward her work, but was nervous about it.  Always pleasant demeanor.

Most significant results were obtained on the ``Aussage'' or testimony test.  After viewing
our standard picture she volunteered only 8 details in free recital.  On cross-examination
she gave 21 more, but no less than 7 of these were incorrectly stated.  Then she accepted the
4 suggestions which were given her.  This result from a girl of her age and ability was exceedingly
poor.

We never found any evidence whatever of aberrational mental conditions.  Our final diagnosis
was ``fair in mental ability with poor educational advantages.''

It should be definitely understood in considering this case that even to the time of our last
interview with Libby, after she had acknowledged her own extensive prevarications, we had evidences
of the unreliability of her word.  In giving details she never made any special effort to tell
the truth, whether it was in regard to the date of her father's death or any other immaterial
detail.  We were inclined to classify her as a pathological liar, as well as a case of pathological
false accusation.  Her traits as a liar and a generally difficult case have, we learn, been
maintained during her stay up to the present time in an institution for delinquent girls.

From the fairly intelligent mother, who cooperated well with us, we obtained a carefully stated
developmental history.  During pregnancy with Libby the mother was run over by a bicycle, but
was not much injured.  The child was born at full term and was of normal size and vitality.
Instruments were used, but no damage was known to have been done.  Libby walked and talked
early.  A couple of times when she was an infant she had convulsions, but never after that.
From 7 weeks until she was 3 years old there was constant trouble on account of some form of
indigestion.  For a time at that age she was in the hospital, but the mother was never told
exactly what the trouble was.  Her stomach was large.  As an older child she was subject to
fits of anger when she could not have her way.  She never had anything that was suggestive
of epilepsy.  Twice she fainted, but once was when she came home half frozen one winter's day.
At 11 years she had pneumonia.  She menstruated at 14 years.

The heredity and family history in this case is of great interest.  Libby's mother went to
work for her first husband's family in the old country.  At about that time this man's first
wife died, but he had previously left her.  He came of a good family, he was himself, however,
a hard-drinking man.  He left two children by his first wife with his parents and came to this
country with Libby's mother.  Here they lived in a common-law marriage relationship for many
years, and two children (one of them Libby) were born to them.  The man continued to be a terrible
drunkard and was probably insane at times.  He once bought a rifle to kill his family.  He
was notorious for his great changeableness of disposition.  Sometimes he would be very pleasant,
and then quickly be seized by some impulse when he would grind his teeth, become very angry,
and use vile language.  Even when sober he would go along talking to himself and people would
follow him on the street to hear what he was saying.  He threatened often to kill his wife.
He deserted her at times for months together.  He only partially supported his family and his
wife worked as a washerwoman.  She left him once, but later went back to him.

In evidence of the character of this man and his wife we have seen several statements from
reliable people.  The man's son by his first wife came to this country and lived with them.
He found his own father impossible--a terribly bad man who was continually fighting at home.
He himself urged his step-mother to break up the home on account of the way in which she was
abused.  He made a statement of this fact under oath.  (It is only fair to say in this whole
connection that these people all came from a part of Europe where what we call a common-law
marriage is an ordinary relationship.)  It was from the language of her father that Libby first
gained acquaintance with bad sex ideas, we are assured by the mother.  After a terrific time
of stress Libby's mother was rescued from her miserable conditions by the man who later lived
with her and finally married her, and who has supported her and been true to her ever since.
He is a sympathetic man of good reputation.

Libby's maternal grandparents died early and her mother had to begin very young to support
herself.  All that we know of the mother's developmental history is that she had some sort
of illness with convulsions once as a child and is said to have been laid away for dead.  She
has brothers and sisters who are said to be quite normal.  She knows her own relatives and
her first husband's, also, and feels very sure there has been no case of insanity, feeblemindedness,
or epilepsy among them.

Libby's moral history is of great import.  She became definitely delinquent very early in life.
At 13 years she had already been in an institution for delinquent girls in an eastern State
and the superintendent writes that she was notorious for disobedience, lying, and stealing.
She was placed there twice, besides having been returned once after an escape.  When she was
6 or 7 years of age she began thieving.  She took things from her mother's trunk and pawned
them.  The child stole from the people's rooms where her mother worked as janitress.  Later
she was truant and associated with immoral girls.  In Chicago she stole a bracelet and a ring
from a down-town store, wearing the bracelet later.  She took $15 from a neighbor's house.
She went to saloons in company with an immoral woman, and at least on one occasion she had
been drinking.  At 12 or 13 she was known to be ``crazy about boys,'' but probably was not
immoral then.  The mother insists that the girl, resembling her father in this, is most changeable
in disposition.  Long before the trial for murder her pastor had urged the mother to put the
girl away in an institution, but the mother's heart was too soft.  (It seems strange that all
this evidence of the girl's own bad character and unreliability, which was readily obtained
by us, was not utilized at the time when she first made the charges of murder.)

The mother's explanation of Libby's behavior is that it was spite work.  However, that is,
of course, unsatisfactory.  The mother not long previously earnestly had warned the girl against
pursuing her downward path and had stated she must be sent away again if she did not do better.
Libby then was doing pretty much as she pleased, for the mother, who was all along a frail
woman, sick much of the time, had really no control over her daughter.  Another feature of
the case that is interesting came out in the fact that Libby herself had neglected the little
epileptic girl who died.  When the mother was ill in bed Libby had refused to properly care
for the child.  To some extent she also engaged in bad sex practices with the little girl.
Libby never gave us the slightest indication that her false testimony was incited by spite.
Anyhow, she involved the step-father, who she always insisted had been very good to her.  The
motive undoubtedly is not so simply explained.  A really deep analysis of the behavior could
not be undertaken.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Mental conflicts: About sex experiences      Case 13.             
                   and own                  Girl, 16 yrs.         
                   misbehavior.           
   Bad companions:  Including father.                
      Home conditions:  Notoriously bad in early life.            
          Heredity:  Father alcoholic, brutal, and                
                      perhaps insane.      
Delinquencies:                          Mentality:      
False accusations.  (Extreme case.)        Fair ability.   
Stealing.      
Sex immorality, etc.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 14

Summary:  A girl of 13 during the last year or more had been lying excessively and in uncalled-for
ways.  She also obtained money by misrepresentations and had made false charges of sex assault
against a stranger.  To be thought of as causative factors were defects of environment and
possibly heredity, markedly imperfect vision, improperly obtained sex knowledge, and a distinct
mental conflict.

We were asked to study this Emma X. on account of the various social issues involved in her
case.  Her family found her beyond control; she had been expelled from school; by her false
accusations she had created much trouble for the police in her home town; officials of a public
welfare agency found her altogether difficult to understand.  We obtained an account of the
case from several sources, including the mother.

The trouble with her had begun about a year previously.  She had been notoriously untruthful,
and had forged a relative's name to the extent of obtaining $40--in small sums.  Emma remained
out late in the evening sometimes, and on three occasions stayed out all night.  The first
time this happened she came home scratched and untidy and told a sensational story which led
to much newspaper notoriety.  She said a man took her to the woods--this was in the summertime--and
kept her there all night.  A loafer in the town, who was arrested the next day, she positively
identified as the one who had assaulted her.  This man was later discharged in the police court,
however, because he abundantly proved an alibi, and because by this time the girl's story had
become so twisted that even the mother did not believe it.  A physician's examination also
tended to prove that no assault had been attempted.

After this Emma was known to sleep one night in a cellar coal-bin.  In stealing and general
lying she became worse until with a change of residence to an uncle's home she improved for
a time.  It was after a little backsliding that we saw her.

The mother frankly tells us that the girl's mind must be affected; otherwise how could she
act as she does.  Emma has complained frequently of headaches and of a little dizziness.  She
has lately been lonely for a sister who went away.  For the last two years Emma has not seemed
altogether well; she has been nervous.  A time ago she had for a friend a girl who spoke too
freely with men, and her mother stopped the companionship.  This other girl has a sister in
the Industrial School.  Emma's mother does not know of any definite harm done by the companionship.

During the pregnancy with Emma the mother had a rather hard time for a while on account of
the severe illness of another child.  The pregnancy began when the mother was still nursing
a baby.  However, when Emma was born she proved to be a healthy and normal child.  Birth was
normal.  No convulsions.  First walked and talked at the usual age.  She was a fat child until
8 years, and then, after an attack of pneumonia, she began to ail somewhat.  At 10 years tonsils
and adenoids were removed.  The mother had no knowledge of Emma's defective vision.  Emma started
to school at 7 years, but at 13 had reached only the 5th grade.

There are 8 living children in the family; one died in infancy.  There has never been much
illness among them.  Most of them did well in school.  The family physician says the boys show
a ``queer streak,'' but nothing, evidently, at all well defined as compared with the career
of Emma, whom he characterizes as a ``moral pervert.''  The mother is a well-meaning, hard-working,
moderately intelligent woman of about 45.  She is said to be somewhat slack in her household,
but perfectly honest.  The father is desperately alcoholic and peculiar at times.  It is not
known that his aberrations are ever shown apart from his drinking.  Years ago he was in a hospital
for the insane for several months as an alcoholic patient.  The trouble with this girl is said
to have led him to drink again.  Both parents were from immigrant families.  It is positively
denied that there are any cases of insanity, feeblemindedness, or epilepsy on either side.
Some other members of the family are known to have better homes.

On the physical side we found a small child for her age; weight 81 lbs., height 4 ft. 9 in.
Nutrition and color fairly good.  Vision about 20/80 R. and 20/60 L.; never had glasses.  Crowded
teeth.  High Gothic palate.  Regular features.  Expression peculiarly stiff with eyes wide
open.  Flushes readily.  With encouragement smiles occasionally.  Other examination negative.
Tonsils, and probably adenoids, removed three years previously; formerly had trouble with breathing
through the nose.  Complains much of frequent frontal headaches.  Says she gets dizzy often
in the schoolroom.

Our ``psychological impressions,'' dictated by Dr. Bronner, state that at first we found Emma
very quiet and diffident, possibly somewhat shy and timid.  At best she did not talk freely,
only in monosyllables as a rule.  She appears rather nervous.  She says she thinks of lots
of things she does not speak of.  Emma smiles in friendly enough fashion, and later became
more at ease, and more talkative.  She was rather deliberate in work with tests.  With concrete
material she did better than with tasks more purely mental.  She succeeds eventually with nearly
everything, but is slow.  She seems anxious to do well, but acts as if unable to rouse herself
to any great effort.  She is quite inaccurate in arithmetic, and only fair in other school
studies.  Emotions normal.  In many ways appears normally childish.  Her interest in fairy
tales and in the type of make-believe plays in which she engages with her younger sisters seems
mixed with her wonderment in regard to sex life.  There is a distinct tendency to day-dreaming.

In reviewing the results of tests the only peculiarities to be noted are a definite weakness
displayed in the powers of mental representation and analysis (she failed on Test X, usually
readily done at 12 years), and a rather undue amount of suggestibility and inaccuracy in response
to the ``Aussage'' test (Test VI).  The latter, naturally-to-be-supposed important test in
a case where lying was a characteristic, showed a result that belonged to the imaginative,
inaccurate, and partially suggestible type.  Many details of the picture were recalled correctly,
but a few were manufactured to order, and 4 out of 7 suggestions were accepted.

About the general diagnosis of mentality there could be no doubt; the girl had fair ability,
but there had been poor educational advantages on account of extremely defective vision.  No
signs of mental aberration were discovered.

