Mr. G. (indignantly). 'Ow can yer tell me sech a falsehood, when I can see him myself, a-dodgin'
about down there in the passage! (Forces his way past the astonished men into the hall, and
addresses a stately Butler in plain clothes.) 'Ere, Sir NASEBY, I've come in to 'ave a little
tork with you on the quiet like.

The Butler (not displeased). I don't happen to be Sir NORMAN himself, my good man. Sir NORMAN
is out.

Mr. G. Out, is he? that's a pity! I wanted to see him on important business. But look 'ere--p'raps
his Missus is in--She'll do! (To himself.) I gen'ally git along with the wimmin-folk--some 'ow!

The Butler. I can't say if her Ladyship is at home. If you like to send up your name, I'll inquire.

Mr. G. You tell her Mr. BENJAMIN GULCHER is 'ere, if she'll step down a minnit. She needn't
'urry, yer know, if she's 'aving her dinner or cleanin' herself. (To himself, as the Butler
departs noiselessly.) Civil-spoken party that--one o' the lodgers, seemin'ly. Roomy sort o'
crib this 'ere. Wonder what they pay a week for it!

Butler (returning). Her Ladyship will see you, if you will step this way.

    [Mr. G. is taken up a staircase, and ushered into
    the presence of Lady NASEBY, who is seated at her
    writing-table.

Lady N. (still writing). One moment, please. My husband is out just now--but if you will kindly
state the nature of your business with him, I daresay I could--(She looks up.) Good Heavens!
What could have possessed CLARKSON to show such a person as that in here! (To herself.)

Mr. G. (in his most ingratiating manner). Well, Mum, in the absence of his Lordship, I am sure
you'll prove a 'ighly agreerble substitoot!

Lady N. (freezingly). May I ask you to tell me--in two words--what it is you wish to see him about.

Mr. G. Certingly you may, Mum! It's like this 'ere. I want your good Gentleman to promise me
his vote and influence for Mr. JOE QUELCH, as we're runnin' for a Labour Candidate this Election.

Lady N. I really cannot answer for my husband's views on political matters, Mr.--a--SQUELCHER;
I make it a rule never to interfere.

Mr. G. Jest what my old woman sez. I've learnt her not to argy with me on politics. But, yer
see, a deal depends on the way a thing is done, and--(insinuatingly)--a good-lookin' woman
liks yourself--(Lady N. gasps out a faint little "Oh!" here)--oh, I'm on'y tellin' yer what
yer know already--'ud find it easy enough to get her better 'alf to vote her way, if she chooses.
You take him some evenin'--say a Saturday, now--when he's jest 'ad enough to feel 'appy, and
coax him into giving his vote to QUELCH. You know 'ow to do it! And he's the right man, mind
yer, QUELCH is--the right man!

Lady N. (almost inaudibly). How--how dare you come into my house, and offer me this impertinent
advice! How--?

Mr. G. (good-temperedly). Easy there, Lady--no impertinence intended, I'm sure. I shouldn't
come in 'ere, intrudin' on the sacred privacy of the British 'Ome, which I'm quite aware an
Englishman's 'Ouse is his Castle--and rightly so--if I didn't feel privileged like. I'm canvassing,
I am!

Lady N. You are taking a most unpardonable liberty, and, if you have the slightest sense of
decency--

Mr. G. (imploringly). Now look 'ere--don't let us 'ave a vulgar row over this! I ain't goin'
to lose my temper. Strike--but 'ear me! If we don't think alike, there's no reason why you
and me should fall out. I put that to you. It's likely enough you don't know JOE QUELCH?

Lady N. (with temper). I never heard of the man in my life!

Mr. G. (triumphantly). See there, now. That's where canvassing comes in, d'yer see? It's our
honly way of combating the hignirance and hapathy of the Upper Classes. Well, I'll tell yer
somethink about 'im. QUELCH worked as a lighterman on a barge fourteen years for eighteen bob
a-week. Ain't that a Man of the People for yer? And if he gits into Parliment, he'll insist
on Labour bein' served fust; he's in favour of Shortened Hours of Labour, Taxation o' Ground
Rents, One Man one Vote, Triannual Parliments and Payment o' Members, Compulsory Allotments,
Providin' Work by Gov'ment for the Unemployed, Abolition o' the 'Ouse o' Lords, and a Free
Breakfast Table. Ah, and he means 'aving it too. That's what JOE is. But look 'ere, why not
come and 'ear what he's got to say for yerself? He's 'oldin' a small open-air meetin' in Kipper's
Court this evenin', ar-past eight percisely. You come and bring yer 'usban', and I'll guarantee
you git a good place close to the cheer. I'll interdooce yer to him arterwards, and he'll answer
any questions yer like to arsk him--fair and straight!

Lady N. (feebly). Thank you very much; but--but we are unfortunately dining out this evening,
so I'm afraid--

Mr. G. (more in sorrow than in anger). There it is, yer see. Yer afraid. Afraid o' 'earing
the truth. Carn't trust yerself to listen to both sides. But I don't despair of yer yet. See
'ere; is it 'Ome Rule that separates us? 'Cos, if so, it needn't. QUELCH don't care no more
for 'Ome Rule than that 'ere penwiper do, between you and me! On'y, yer see, he carn't say
so at present, d'yer ketch my meanin'? (Lady N. rings the bell in despair.) Oh, thankee, Mum,
if you are so kind, I'll take whatever yer goin' to 'ave yerself, I ain't partickler.

Lady N. (as the Butler appears). CLARKSON, show this--this gentleman the way out.

Mr. G. Don't you trouble, old pal, I can find it for myself. (To Lady N.) I b'lieve, if the
truth was known, you're comin' round already, Mum. I'll tell yer what I'll do. I'll leave some
o' these 'ere little pamphlicks, as you might git your good man to run his eye over. "Why I
am a Radikil," "The Infamy of Tory Gov'ment," "'Ow we are Robbed!" &c. And 'ere's a picter-poster--"The
'Orrers of Coercion under the Brutal BALFOUR!" Yer might put it up in yer front winder--it
don't commit yer to nothing, yer know!--it'll amuse the kids, if you've any family.

Clarkson (in his ear). Will you walk downstairs quietly, or shall I have to pitch you?

Mr. G. (roused at last). What, I'm to cop the push, am I? An' what for, eh? What 'ave I done
more than you swells ha' bin doin' ever since the Elections started? (To Lady N.) You come
pokin' into our 'ouses, without waitin' to be invited, arskin' questions and soft-sawderin',
and leavin' tracks and coloured picters--and we put up with it all. But as soon as one of us
tries it on, what do yer do?--ring for the Chucker-out! Ah, and reason enough, too--yer know
yer'll get beaten on the argyments! (Here he is gently but firmly led out by CLARKSON, and
concludes his observations on the' stairs outside.) Stuck-up, pudden'-'eaded fossils!... battenin'
on the People's brains!... your time'll come some day!... Wait till QUELCH 'ears o' this! &c., &c.

Lady N. (alone). Thank goodness he's gone!--but what an ordeal! I really must part with CLARKSON.
And--whatever the Primrose League Council may say--I shall have to tell them I must give up
canvassing. I don't think I can do it any more--after this!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"Read it!" said Everyone. "Read what?" asked the Baron. "The Wrecker," answered Everyone. "I
will," quoth the Baron, promptly. And--it was done. It took some time to do, but of this more
anon. The Baron's time is fully occupied, never mind how, but fully, take his word for it.
A copy of The Wrecker was at once provided by its publishers, Messrs. CASSELL & Co., and the
question for the Baron to consider, was not "What will I do with it?" but How, when, and where,
will I read it? Clearly 'twas no ordinary book. Everybody was saying so, and what Everybody
is saying has considerable weight. A book not to be trained through at express pace, so that
the beauties of the surrounding scenery would be lost, but something that when once taken up
cannot be put down again, like the brass knobs worked by an electric-battery,--something giving
you fits and starts, and shocks, as do the electric brass-knobs aforesaid; something that,
if you begin it at 4 P.M., exhausts you by dinner-time, and after dinner, keeps you awake till
you read the last line at 2 A.M., and then tumble into bed parched, fevered, exhausted, but
in ecstasies of delight, feeling as if you were the hero who had experienced all the dangers,
and had come out of them triumphantly.

Such were the Baron's anticipations as to the joys in store for him on reading The Wrecker,
by Messrs. ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON and LLOYD OSBOURNE. The Baron hit on a plan, he must isolate
himself as if he were a telephone-wire. "Good," quoth he, "Isolation is the sincerest flattery,--towards
authors." The friend in need, not in the sense of being out at elbows, appeared at the right
moment, as did the Slave of the Lamp to Aladdin. "Come to my house in the mountains," said
this Genius, heartily; "come to the wold where the foxes dwell, not a hundred miles from a
cab-stand, yet far far away,--amid lovely scenery, in beautiful air, to quiet reposeful rooms,
with the silence of the cloister and the jollity of the Hall where beards wag all, in the evening,
when the daily task is done." "Friend REGINALD SYDE, I thank thee," responded gratefully the
Baron. "I am there!" And in less time than it takes to go the whole distance in a four-horsed
coach with a horn blowing and the horses blown, the Baron, travelling by special express, was
there,--all there! The Authorities on the line made no extra charge for taking The Wrecker
as luggage.

The weather was favourable for reading; an interminable downpour, when one is grateful for
any book, even a Dictionary of Dates, or the remains of a Boyle's Court Guide. The Brave Baron
shut himself into his room, laid in stores of tobacco and grog, decided, in the course of half
an hour, on a comfortable position, and then laid himself out for the perusal, not to say the
study, of The Wrecker. Introductory Chapter excellent,--appetising. "Oliver asks for more,"
murmurs the Baron to himself, settling down to "the Yarn." Chapter I. Now a strange thing happened.
The Story broke off! suddenly--inexplicably. Descriptions, yes, by the handful, by the cartload--all
excellent, no doubt--and much to be appreciated by a reader with nothing on earth to do the
whole year round; but, about page 53, the Baron began to be uneasy, shifted his pillows, refilled
pipe, took "modest quencher," and then turned to grapple with The Wrecker. No good. Where the
deuce had the Story got to? When would the excitement come in? Where was the sensation? Toiling
on, went the Baron, stopping frequently to wish he had a dictionary wherein he might ascertain
the meaning of strange, uncouth words and phrases, and to anathematise the Authors separately
or together. Had OSBOURNE interfered with STEVENSON, or was STEVENSON allowing OSBOURNE to
have his say, reserving himself for a grand coup at half-price? Would OSBOURNE chuck STEVENSON
overboard, or was it to be t'other way off? At page 90 the Baron decided he would take a walk
round, even if it were pouring cats and dogs, and exclaiming, "Air, air, give me air!" he rushed
forth. It was fine. A brisk walk and a talk--just like King CHARLES "who walked and talked"--with
his genial host REGI SYDE, restored the Baron's circulation, and made him wonder to himself
at the reported great circulation of the book. Back to his room again--into easy chair--p.
100--Happy Thought. This book is about ships and sea, The Baron will be a Skipper!--and so
he skips, skips, with great relief, until "A sail in sight appears,"--spell it "sale," and
there's a picture of it--"He hails it with three cheers!"

