Naturally the failure of the superior fleet to crush the inferior one aroused a storm of criticism,
the most severe emanating from English naval writers. The sum and substance is the charge of
overcaution on the part of the British Commander in Chief. It is held that Jellicoe should
have formed his battle line on his starboard instead of his port wing, thus turning toward
the enemy and concentrating on the head of their column at once. Forming on the port division
caused the battle fleet to swerve away from the enemy and open the range just at the critical
moment of contact, leaving Beatty unsupported in his dash across the head of the enemy's line.
It is said that the latter even sent a signal to the Marlborough for the battleships to fall
in astern of him, and the failure to do so made his maneuver fruitless. Apparently this message
was not transmitted to the flagship at the time. In answer Jellicoe explains in great detail
that the preliminary reports received from Goodenough and others as to the position of the
High Seas Fleet were so meager and conflicting that he could not form line of battle earlier
than he did, and secondly that deploying on the starboard division at the moment of sighting
the enemy would have thrown the entire battle fleet into confusion, blanketed their fire, and
created a dangerous opening for torpedo attack from the destroyers at the head of the German
column. On this point Scheer agrees with the critics. Deploying on the starboard division instead
of the port, he says, "would have greatly impeded our movements and rendered a fresh attack
on the enemy's line extremely difficult."

The second point of criticism rested on the turning away of the battleships at the critical
point of the torpedo attack at 7.20, under cover of which the German battleships wheeled to
westward and disappeared. Jellicoe's reply is that if he had swung to starboard, turning toward
the enemy, he would have headed into streams of approaching torpedoes under conditions of mist
and smoke that were ideal for torpedo attack, and if he had maintained position in line ahead
he would have courted heavy losses. In connection with this turn he calls attention to the
fact that British light cruisers and destroyers could not be used to deliver a counter attack
because, on account of the rapid changes of course and formation made by the battlefleet, they
had been unable to reach their proper station in the van.

Thirdly, if conditions for night battle were too risky why did the Grand Fleet fail to keep
sufficient touch with the enemy by means of its light flotillas so as to be informed of his
movements and prevent his escape? There were frequent contacts during that short night, and
the Germans were sighted steering southeast. The attacks made by British destroyers certainly
threw the German line into confusion, and some of the light vessels were driven to the north,
reaching German bases by way of the Baltic. Nevertheless the fleet succeeded in cutting through
without serious loss. To this there seems to be no answer.

Lastly, to the query why Jellicoe did not seek another action in the morning, as originally
intended, he replies that he discovered by directional wireless that the Germans were already
safe between the mine fields and the coast, and that he could not safely proceed without his
screening force of destroyers and light cruisers, which, after their night operations, were
widely scattered. From German accounts, however, we find no mention of a shelter behind mine
fields, but astonishment at the fact that they were permitted to go on their way unmolested.
Morning found the two fleets only twenty miles apart, and the Germans had a half day's steaming
before they could reach port. They were in no condition to fight. The battleship Ostfriesland
had struck a mine and had to be towed. The battle cruiser Seydlitz had to be beached to keep
her from sinking, and other units were limping along with their gun decks almost awash.

Certainly the tactics of Jellicoe do not suggest those of Blake, Hawke, or Nelson. They do
not fit Farragut's motto--borrowed from Danton[1]--"l'audace, encore l'audace, et toujours
l'audace," or Napoleon's "frappez vite, frappez fort." War, as has been observed before, cannot
be waged without taking risks. The British had a heavy margin to gamble on. As it happened,
23 out of the entire 28 battleships came out of the fight without so much as a scratch on their
paint; and, after deployment, only one out of the battle line of 27 dreadnoughts received a
single hit. This was the Colossus, which had four men wounded by a shell.

[Footnote 1: And borrowed by Danton from Cicero.]

The touchstone of naval excellence is Nelson. As Mahan has so ably pointed out, while weapons
change principles remain. Dewey, in deciding to take the chances involved in a night entry
of Manila Bay did so in answer to his own question, "What would Farragut do?" Hence in considering
Jutland one may take a broader view than merely a criticism of tactics. In a word, does the
whole conduct of the affair reveal the method and spirit of Nelson?

At Trafalgar there was no need for a deployment after the enemy was sighted because in the
words of the famous Memorandum, "the order of sailing is to be the order of battle." The tactics
to be followed when the French appeared had been carefully explained by Nelson to his commanders.
No signal was needed--except the fine touch of inspiration in "England expects every man to
do his duty." In brief, the British fleet had been so thoroughly indoctrinated, and the plan
was so simple, that there was no room for hesitation, uncertainty, or dependence on the flagship
for orders at the last minute. It is hard to see evidence of any such indoctrination of the
Grand Fleet before Jutland.

Again, Nelson was, by example and precept, constantly insisting on the initiative of the subordinate.
At Jutland, despite the urgent signals of Beatty at two critical moments, neither Burney of
the sixth division nor Jerram of the first felt free to act independently of the orders of
the Commander in Chief. The latter tried, as Nelson emphatically did not, to control from the
flagship every movement of the entire fleet.

Further, if naval history has taught anything it has established a point so closely related
to the responsibility and initiative of the subordinate as to be almost a part of it; namely,
a great fleet that fights in a single rigid line ahead never achieves a decisive victory. Blake,
Tromp, and de Ruyter fought with squadrons, expecting--indeed demanding--initiative on the
part of their flag officers. That was the period when great and decisive victories were won.
The close of the 17th century produced the "Fighting Instructions," requiring the unbroken
line ahead, and there followed a hundred years of indecisive battles and bungled opportunities.
Then Nelson came and revived the untrammeled tactics of the days of Blake with the added glory
of his own genius. It appears that at Jutland the battleships were held to a rigid unit of
fleet formation as in the days of the Duke of York or Admiral Graves. And concentration with
a long line of dreadnoughts is no more possible to-day than it was with a similar line of two-decked
sailing ships a century and a half ago.

Finally, in the matter of spirit, the considerations that swayed the movements of the Grand
Fleet at all stages were apparently those of what the enemy might do instead of what might
be done to the enemy, the very antithesis of the spirit of Nelson.

Thus the great battle turned out to be indecisive; in fact, it elated the Germans with a feeling
of success and depressed the British with a keen sense of failure. Nevertheless, the control
of the sea remained in the hands of the English, and never again did the High Seas Fleet risk
another encounter. The relative positions at sea of the two adversaries therefore remained
unaltered.

On the other hand, if the British had destroyed the German fleet
the victory would have been priceless. As Jervis remarked at Cape
St. Vincent, "A victory is very essential to England at this hour."
The spring of 1916 was an ebb point in Allied prospects. The Verdun
offensive was not halted, the Somme drive had not yet begun, the
Russians were beaten far back in their own territory, the Italians
had retreated, and there was rebellion in Ireland. The annihilation
of the High Seas Fleet would have reversed the situation with dramatic
suddenness and would have at least marked the turning point of the
war. Without a German battle fleet, the British could have forced
the fighting almost to the very harbors of the German coast--bottling
up every exit by a barrage of mines. The blockade, therefore, could
have been drawn close to the coast defenses. Moreover, with the High
Seas Fleet gone, the British fleet could have entered and taken
possession of the Baltic, which throughout the war remained a German
lake. By this move England would have threatened the German Baltic
coast with invasion and extended her blockade in a highly important
locality, cutting off the trade between Sweden and Germany. She
would also have come to the relief of Russia, which was suffering
terrible losses from the lack of munitions. Indeed it would have
saved that ally from the collapse that withdrew her from the war.
With no German "fleet in being" great numbers of workers in English
industry and vast quantities of supplies might have been transferred
to the support of the army. The threat of invasion would have been
removed, and the large army that was kept in England right up to
the crisis of March, 1918,[1] would have been free to reenforce
the army at the front. Finally, without the personnel of the German
fleet there could have been no ruthless submarine campaign the year
after, such as actually came so near to winning the war. Thus,
while the German claim to a triumph that drove the British from
the seas is ridiculous, it is equally so to argue, as the First
Lord of the Admiralty did, that there was no need of a British
victory at Jutland, that all the fruits of victory were gained as
it was. The subsequent history of the war tells a different tale.
THE BATTLE OF JUTLAND, Commander Carlyon Bellairs, M. P., 1920.
THE NAVAL ANNUAL, 1919, Earl Brassey.
A DESCRIPTION OF THE BATTLE OF JUTLAND, Lieut. Commander H.
  H. Frost, U. S. N., in U. S. NAVAL INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS, vol.
  45, pp. 1829 ff, 2019 ff; vol. 46, pp. 61 ff.
THE BRITISH NAVY IN BATTLE, A. H. Pollen, 1919.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE WORLD WAR [Continued]: COMMERCE WARFARE

Interdiction of enemy trade has always been the great weapon of sea power; and hence, though
mines, submarines, and the menace of the High Seas Fleet itself made a close blockade of the
German coast impossible, Great Britain in the World War steadily extended her efforts to cut
off Germany's intercourse with the overseas world. Germany, on the other hand, while unwilling
or unable to take the risks of a contest for surface control of the sea, waged cruiser warfare
on British and Allied commerce, first by surface vessels, and, when these were destroyed, by
submarines. In the policies adopted by each belligerent there is an evident analogy to the
British blockade and the French commerce destroying campaigns of the Napoleonic Wars. And just
as in the earlier conflict British sea power impelled Napoleon to a ruinous struggle for the
domination of Europe, so in the World War, though in a somewhat different fashion, the blockade
worked disaster for Germany.

"The consequences of the blockade," writes the German General von Freytag-Loringhoven, "showed
themselves at once. Although we succeeded in establishing our war economics by our internal
strength, yet the unfavorable state of the world economic situation was felt by us throughout
the war. That alone explains why our enemies found ever fresh possibilities of resistance,
because the sea stood open to them, and why victories which would otherwise have been absolutely
decisive, and the conquest of whole kingdoms, did not bring us nearer peace."

For each group of belligerents, indeed, the enemy's commerce warfare assumed a vital significance.
"No German success on land," declares the conservative British Annual Register for 1919, "could
have ruined or even very gravely injured the English-speaking powers. The success of the submarine
campaign, on the other hand, would have left the United States isolated and have placed the
Berlin Government in a position to dominate most of the rest of the world." "The war is won
for us," declared General von Hindenburg on July 2, 1917, "if we can withstand the enemy attacks
until the submarine has done its work."

Commerce warfare at once involves a third party, the neutral; and it therefore appears desirable,
before tracing the progress of this warfare, to outline briefly the principles of international
law which, by a slow and tortuous process, have grown up defining the respective rights of
neutrals and belligerents in naval war. Blockade is among the most fundamental of these rights
accorded to the belligerent, upon the conditions that the blockade shall be limited to enemy
ports or coasts, confined within specified limits, and made so effective as to create evident
danger to traffic. It assumes control of the sea by the blockading navy, and, before the days
of mines and submarines, it was enforced by a cordon of ships off the enemy coast. A blockade
stops direct trade or intercourse of any kind.

Whether or not a blockade is established, a belligerent has the right to attempt the prevention
of trade in contraband. A neutral nation is under no obligation whatever to restrain its citizens
from engaging in this trade. In preventing it, however, a belligerent warship may stop, visit,
and search any merchant vessel on the high seas. If examination of the ship's papers and search
show fraud, contraband cargo, offense in respect to blockade, enemy ownership or service, the
vessel may be taken as a prize, subject to adjudication in the belligerent's prize courts.
The right of merchant vessels to carry defensive armament is well established; but resistance
justifies destruction. Under certain circumstances prizes may be destroyed at sea, after removal
of the ship's papers and full provision for the safety of passengers and crew.

The Declaration of London,[1] drawn up in 1909, was an attempt to restate and secure general
acceptance of these principles, with notable modifications. Lists were drawn up of absolute
contraband (munitions, etc., adapted obviously if not exclusively for use in war), conditional
contraband (including foodstuffs, clothing, rolling stock, etc., susceptible of use in war
but having non-warlike uses as well), and free goods (including raw cotton and wool, hides,
and ores). The most significant provision of the Declaration was that the doctrine of continuous
voyage should apply only to absolute contraband. This doctrine, established by Great Britain
in the French wars and expanded by the United States in the American Civil War, holds that
the ultimate enemy destination of a cargo determines its character, regardless of transshipment
in a neutral port and subsequent carriage by sea or land. The Declaration of London was never
ratified by Great Britain, and was observed for only a brief period in the first months of
the war. Had it been ratified and observed, Germany would have been free to import all necessary
supplies, other than munitions, through neutral states on her frontiers.

[Footnote 1: Printed in full in INTERNATIONAL LAW TOPICS of the U. S. Naval War College, 1910,
p. 169 ff.]

The Blockade of Germany

Unable to establish a close blockade, and not venturing at once to advance the idea of a "long
range" blockade, England was nevertheless able to impose severe restrictions upon Germany by
extending the lists of contraband, applying the doctrine of continuous voyage to both absolute
and conditional contraband, and throwing upon the owners of cargoes the burden of proof as
to destination. Cotton still for a time entered Germany, and some exports were permitted. In
a note of protest on March 30, the United States virtually recognized the legitimacy of a long-range
blockade--an innovation of seemingly wide possibilities--and confined its objections to British
interference with lawful trade between neutrals, amounting in effect to a blockade of neutral
ports.

As a matter of fact, in spite of British efforts, there had been an immense increase of indirect
trade with Germany through neutrals. While American exports to Germany in 1915 were $154,000,000
less than in 1913, and in fact practically ceased altogether, American exports to Holland and
the Scandinavian states increased by $158,000,000. This trade continued up to the time when
the United States entered the war, after which all the restrictions which England had employed
were given a sharper application. By a simple process of substitution, European neutrals had
been able to import commodities for home use, and export their own products to Germany. Now,
in order to secure supplies at all, they were forced to sign agreements which put them on rations
and gave the Western Powers complete control of their exports to Germany.

The effect of the Allied blockade upon Germany is suggested by the accompanying chart. In the
later stages of the war it created a dearth of important raw materials, crippled war industries,
brought the country to the verge of starvation, and caused a marked lowering of national efficiency
and morale.

Germany protested vigorously to the United States for allowing her foodstuffs to be shut out
of Germany while at the same time shipping to England vast quantities of munitions. Throughout
the controversy, however, Great Britain profited by the fact that while her methods caused
only financial injury to neutrals, those employed by Germany destroyed or imperiled human lives.

The Submarine Campaign

The German submarine campaign may be dated from February 18, 1915, when Germany, citing as
a precedent Great Britain's establishment of a military area in the North Sea, proclaimed a
war zone "in the waters around Great Britain and Ireland, including the whole English Channel,"
within which enemy merchant vessels would be sunk without assurance of safety to passengers
or crew. Furthermore, as a means of keeping neutrals out of British waters, Germany declared
she would assume no responsibility for destruction of neutral ships within this zone. What
this meant was to all intents and purposes a "paper" submarine blockade of the British Isles.
Its illegitimacy arose from the fact that it was conducted surreptitiously over a vast area,
and was only in the slightest degree effective, causing a destruction each month of less than
one percent of the traffic. Had it been restricted to narrow limits, it would have been still
less effective, owing to the facility of countermeasures in a small area.

Determined, however, upon a spectacular demonstration of its possibilities, Germany first published
danger notices in American newspapers, and then, on May 7, 1915, sank the unarmed Cunard liner
Lusitania off the Irish coast, with a loss of 1198 lives, including 102 Americans. In spite
of divided American sentiment and a strong desire for peace, this act came little short of
bringing the United States into the war. Violations of this pledge, further controversies,
and increased friction with neutrals marked the next year or more, during which, however, sinkings
did not greatly exceed the level of about 150,000 tons a month already attained.

During this period Allied countermeasures were chiefly of a defensive character, including
patrol of coastal areas, diversion of traffic from customary routes, and arming of merchantmen.
This last measure, making surface approach and preliminary warning a highly dangerous procedure
for the submarine, led Germany to the announcement that, after March 1, 1916, all armed merchant
vessels would be torpedoed without warning. But how were U-boat commanders to distinguish between
enemy and neutral vessels? Between vessels with or without guns? The difficulty brings out
clearly the fact that while the submarines made good pirates, they were hampered in warfare
on legitimate lines.

Germany redoubled U-boat activities to lend strength to her peace proposals at the close of
1916, and when these failed she decided to disregard altogether the cobwebs of legalism that
had hitherto hindered her submarine war. On February 1, 1917, she declared unrestricted warfare
in an immense barred zone within limits extending from the Dutch coast through the middle of
the North Sea to the Faroe Islands and thence west and south to Cape Finisterre, and including
also the entire Mediterranean east of Spain. An American ship was to be allowed to enter and
leave Falmauth once a week, and there was a crooked lane leading to Greece.

In thus announcing her intention to sink all ships on sight in European waters, Germany burned
her bridges behind her. She staked everything on this move. Fully anticipating the hostility
of the United States, she hoped to win the war before that country could complete its preparations
and give effective support to the Allies. General von Hindenburg's statement has already been
quoted. It meant that the army was to assume the defensive, while the navy carried out its
attack on Allied communications. Admiral von Capelle, head of the German Admiralty, declared
that America's aid would be "absolutely negligible." "My personal view," he added, "is that
the U-boat will bring peace within six months."

As it turned out, Germany's disregard of neutral rights in 1917, like the violation of Belgium
in 1914, reacted upon her and proved the salvation of the Western Powers. After the defection
of Russia, France was in imperative need of men. Great Britain needed ships. Neither of these
needs could have been supplied save by America's throwing her utmost energies into active participation
in the war. This was precisely the result of the proclamation of Feb. 1, 1917. The United States
at once broke off diplomatic relations, armed her merchant vessels in March, and on April 6
declared a state of war.

Having traced the development of submarine warfare to this critical period, we may now turn
to the methods and weapons employed by both sides at a time when victory or defeat hinged on
the outcome of the war at sea.

Germany's submarine construction and losses appear in the following table from official German
sources, the columns showing first the total number built up to the date given, next the total
losses to date, and finally the remainder with which Germany started out at the beginning of
each year.

After 1916 Germany devoted the facilities of her shipyards entirely to submarine construction,
and demoralized the surface fleet to secure personnel. Of the entire number built, not more
than a score were over 850 tons. The U C boats were small mine-layers about 160 feet in length,
with not more than two weeks' cruising period. The U B'g were of various sizes, mostly small,
and some of them were built in sections for transportation by rail. The U boats proper, which
constituted the largest and most important class, had a speed of about 16 knots on the surface
and 9 knots submerged, and could remain at sea for a period of 5 or 6 weeks, the duration of
the cruise depending chiefly upon the supply of torpedoes. In addition there were a half dozen
large submarine merchantmen of the type of the Deutschland, which made two voyages to America
in 1916; and a similar number of big cruisers of 2000 tons or more were completed in 1918,
mounting two 6-inch guns and capable of remaining at sea for several months. The 372 boats
built totaled 209,000 tons and had a personnel of over 11,000 officers and men. There were
seldom more than 20 or 30 submarines in active operation at one time. One third of the total
number were always in port, and the remainder in training.

-----------------------------------------------------------
            | Boats |        |         Remainder
            | built | Losses |(On Jan. 1 of year following)
------------|-------|--------|-----------------------------
End of 1914 |   31  |     5  |             26
       1915 |   93  |    25  |             68
       1916 |  188  |    50  |            138
       1917 |  291  |   122  |            169
       1918 |  372  |   202  |            170
-----------------------------------------------------------

It is evident from her limited supply of submarines at the outbreak of war that Germany did
not contemplate their use as commerce destroyers. To the Allied navies also, in spite of warnings
from a few more far-sighted officers, their use for this purpose came as a complete surprise.
New methods had to be devised, new weapons invented, new types of ship built and old ones put
to uses for which they were not intended--in short, a whole new system of warfare inaugurated
amidst the preoccupations of war. As usual in such circumstances, the navy taking the aggressive
with a new weapon gained a temporary ascendancy, until effective counter-measures could be
contrived. It is easy to say that all this should have been foreseen and provided for, but
it is a question to what extent preparations could profitably have been made before Germany
began her campaign. It has already been pointed out in the chapter preceding that, had the
German fleet been destroyed at Jutland, subsequent operations on the German coast might have
made the submarine campaign impossible, and preparations unnecessary.

Anti-Submarine Tactics

Of the general categories of anti-submarine tactics,--detection, evasion, and destruction--it
was naturally those of evasion that were first employed. Among these may be included suspension
of sailings upon warning of a submarine in the vicinity, diversion of traffic from customary
routes, camouflage, and zigzag courses to prevent the enemy from securing favorable position
and aim. The first method was effective only at the expense of a severe reduction of traffic,
amounting in the critical months of 1917 to 40 per cent of a total stoppage. The second sometimes
actually aided the submarine, for in confined areas such as the Mediterranean it was likely
to discover the new route and reap a rich harvest. Camouflage was discarded as of slight value;
but shifts of course were employed to advantage by both merchant and naval vessels throughout
the war.

