PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

JANUARY 8, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

The mystery of the Foreign Office official who has not gone to Paris for the Peace Conference
has been cleared up. He is the caretaker.

       ***

"The King and Queen of Roumania," says a Paris paper, "will embark after Christmas, orthodox
style, for Western Europe." It is easy enough to start a voyage, orthodox style; the difficulty
is at the other end.

       ***

The supreme command of the German Navy, says a telegram, has been transferred to Wilhelmshaven.
This looks like carelessness on the part of the watch at Scapa Flow.

       ***

This year's Who's Who has eighty-six more pages than that of last year. On the other hand,
since the Election quite a number of people are not Who at all.

       ***

"The present rule in Who's Who," says The Evening News, "is that the more important a man is
the less space he is content to occupy." As some of the staff of our evening Press do not occupy
any space at all in this excellent publication we leave readers to draw their own conclusions.

       ***

The Frankfürter Zeitung observes that the ex-Kaiser has grown very silent and morose. It is
supposed that he has something or other on his mind.

       ***

A Copenhagen message states that the Spartacus people have three times attempted to murder
Count REVENTLOW, who is said to regard these attempts as being in the worst possible taste.

       ***

Once again the newspapers have been beaten. It appears that Princess PATRICIA knew of her engagement
some time before the Press announced it to Her Royal Highness.

       ***

"We still believe," says the Kölnische Zeitung, "that in thought the German and the Britisher
are racially akin." All the same we should not encourage the Hun to come over here with the
idea of making a spiritual home among his alleged relatives.

       ***

Charged with drunkenness at the Thames Police Court a man attributed his condition to the beer
habit. It is remarkable how men will cling to any sort of excuse.

       ***

Woolwich Arsenal, we are informed, is turning out milk-cans. Can nothing be done, asks a pacifist,
to save our children from the insidious grip of militarism?

       ***

Nottinghamshire War Committee states that rat-catchers are now demanding four pounds a week.
Diplomacy, it appears, is the only branch of British sport that has succeeded in escaping the
taint of professionalism.

       ***

"Fractious mules," says a correspondent of The Daily Mail, "should not be sent to the country
for sale." The playful kind, on the other hand, that bite and kick from sheer joie de vivre,
are bound to have a beneficial effect on the agricultural temperament.

       ***

A Guildford allotment-holder successfully grew new potatoes for Christmas-day dinner. All were
eaten, it appears, except one, which was kept to show to the Christmas pudding.

       ***

There is no truth in the report that Mr. DANIELS, U.S. Secretary for the Navy, has received
a telegram from Mr. WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST, saying, "You furnish the navy and I'll furnish
the war."

       ***

"The Crystal Palace," says. Dean INGE, "is the embodiment of spiritual emptiness." A determined
attempt is to be made to find out what the Crystal Palace thinks of Dean INGE.

       ***

Stories of an unsuccessful Candidate in the Midlands, who was heard to admit that the voters
probably preferred his opponent's personality, must be definitely regarded as apocryphal.

       ***

Traditions in Scotland die hard. We gather that it is stili considered unlucky for a red-headed
burglar to cross a Scottish threshold on New Year's Eve.

       ***

A man at Berne has recently confessed to a murder he committed twenty-one years ago. This is
what comes of memory-training.

       ***

It is reported that TROTSKY has been ordered by his doctor to take a complete rest. He has
therefore decided not to have any more revolutions for the present. Orders however will be
executed in rotation.

       ***

Credit where credit is due. A woman fined at Wood Green Police Court said her name was JOLLY
and she had been having a "jollification," yet the magistrate refrained from comment.

       ***

"Where was the Poet Laureate during the visit of President Wilson?" asks a correspondent in
a contemporary. We do not share this curiosity.

       ***

"Foxes are to be found within an omnibus ride of Charing Cross," says Mr. RICHARD KEARTON.
Young omnibuses with plenty of bone and stamina are the best for suburban meets.

       ***

Anemones, said a lecturer at the Royal Institution, will live as long as sixty years in captivity
and are very intelligent. Nevertheless we refuse to swallow the story about their being taught
to jump through a hoop. The man who told it must have been thinking of an Egyptian king of
the same name.

       ***

The LORD-LIEUTENANT, it is stated on good authority, threatens that if Sinn Fein prisoners
destroy any more jails they will be rigorously released.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir Eric Geddes speaks of £50,000,000,000--a sum so vast that it
    could not be paid off in a century of annual payments so small as
    £2,000,000,000 each."--Yorkshire Paper.

Our contemporary overestimates the difficulty.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VERDICT OF DEMOCRACY.

  The nation's memory, then, is not so short;
    It still recalls the fields we lately bled on;
  And when it had to choose the likeliest sort
    For clearing up the mess of Armageddon
      And making all things new,
  It chose the man whose courage saw it through.

  Hun-lovers, pledged to Peace (the German kind),
    And such as sported LENIN'S sanguine token,
  Appealed to Liberty to speak her mind,
    And Liberty has very frankly spoken,
      Strewing around her polls
  The remnants of their ungummed aureoles.

  In Amerongen there is grief to-day;
    I seem to hear the martyr of Potsdam say,
  "Alas for SNOWDEN, gone the downward way,
    And O my poor, my poor beloved RAMSAY;
      I much regret the rout
  That washed this couple absolutely out!"

  Dreadfully, too, the heart of TROTSKY bleeds,
    To match the stain upon his reeking sabre,
  Which is the blood of Russia, when he reads
    How BARNES, the champion knight of loyal Labour,
      Downed in the Lowland lists
  MACLEAN, the Red Hope of the Bolshevists.

  But here is jubilation in the air
    And matter made to build the jocund rhyme on,
  Though in our joyance some may fail to share,
    Like Mr. RUNCIMAN or Major SIMON,
      That hardened warrior, he
  Who won the Military O.B.E.

  Already dawns for us a golden age
    (Lo! with the loud "All Clear!" our pæan mingles),
  An era when the OUTHWAITES cease to rage
    And there is respite from the prancing PRINGLES,
      And absence puts a curb
  On the reluctant lips of SAMUEL (HERB.).

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO THROW OFF AN ARTICLE.

"Do you really write?" said Sylvia, gazing at me large-eyed with wonder. I admitted as much.

"And do they print it just as you write it?"

"Well, their hired grammarians make a few trifling alterations to justify their existence."

"And do they pay you quite a lot?"

"Sixpence a word."

"Oo! How wonderful!"

"But not for every word," I added hastily, "only the really funny ones."

"And they send it to you by cheques?"

"Rather. I bought a couple of pairs of socks with the last story; even then I had something
left over."

"And how do you write the stories?"

"Oh, just get an idea and go right ahead."

"How wonderful! Do you just sit down and write it straight off?"

I just--only just--pulled myself up in time as I remembered that Sylvia was an enthusiast of
twelve whose own efforts had already caused considerable comment in the literary circles described
round the High School. I felt this entitled her to some claim on my veracity.

"Sylvia," I cried, "I shall have to make a confession. All those stories you have been good
enough to read and occasionally smile over are the result of a cold-blooded mechanical process--and
the help of a dictionary of synonyms."

"Oo! How wonderful! Do show me how."

"Very well. Since you are going to be a literary giantess it is well that you should be initiated
into the mysteries of producing what I shall call the illusion of spontaneity. Now take this
story here. Here on this old envelope is THE IDEA."

"Oo! Let me see. I can't read a word."

"Of course you can't; nobody could. Rough copies are divided into classes as follows:--

"No. 1. Those I can read, but nobody else can.

"No. 2. Those I can't read myself after two days.

"No. 3. Those my typist can read.

"This story is about a certain Brigade Major who is an inveterate leg-puller. Some Americans
are expected to be coming for instruction. Well, before they arrive the Brigade Major has to
go up to the line, and on his way he meets a man with a very new tin hat who asks him in a
certain nasal accent we have all come to love if he has seen anything of a party of Americans.
Spotting him as a new chum, the Brigade Major offers to show him round the line, and proceeds
to pull his leg and tells him the most preposterous nonsense. For instance, on a shot being
fired miles away he pretends they are in frightful danger, and leads him bent double round
and round trenches in the same circle."

"What a shame!"

"Wasn't it? Well, when he gets tired he asks the American if he thinks he has learnt anything.
The American says, 'Gee, I've been out here two years now, but I guess you've taught me a whole
heap I didn't know. I'm a Canadian tunneller, you know, and I've got to show some Americans
our work, but I guess I've had a most interesting time with you."

"Ha! ha!"

"Well now, to put the story into its form. Here's Copy No. 1, on this old envelope. 'Americans
coming--Brigade Major sees American looking for party--pulls his leg--pretends to being in
frightful danger--American is Canadian who has been out two years.' See? Copy No. 2. Here we
begin to till in. Describe Brigade headquarters and previous leg-pulls of Brigade Major. Make
up details of what he tells the American--'That's a trench. That thing you fell over is a coil
of wire. This is a sunken road--we sunk it, etc., etc.' Copy No. 3, additions and details,
little touches of local colour, revision of choice of words, heart-rending erasions. And here,
my child," I concluded, bringing out the beautiful, clean, smooth typed copy--"here is the
finished work itself, light, pleasant, fluent, humorous and, most important of all, spontaneous."

"Oo! But how awfully cold-blooded. I thought you smiled to yourself all the time you wrote it."

"My dear girl, it takes hours. If I smiled continually all that length of time the top of my
head would come off."

"Isn't it wonderful? Fancy building it all up from jottings on an old envelope! What's that
piece of paper you took out of the typed copy?"

"Oh, that's nothing to do with the literary side of it," I said, crumpling up the little memorandum,
which said that the Editor presented compliments and regretted that he was unable to make use
of the enclosed contribution.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Henderson ... was received with a cry of 'He is not on the
    map now.'"--Times.

It is supposed that his supporter meant to say "not on the mat"--in reference to an incident
at the close of Mr. HENDERSON'S Ministerial career. But many a true word is said in the Press
by inadvertence.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A DEMOBILISATION DISASTER.

Private Randle Janvers Binderbeck and Private John Hodge (of No. 12 Platoon) both enlisted
in 1914. Previously Handle wrote articles, mostly denunciatory. He denounced the Government
of the day, tight skirts, Christian Science, scorching on scooters, the foreign policy of Patagonia
and many other things. John, on the other hand, had not an agile brain. He worked on a farm
in some incredibly primitive capacity, and the only thing that he denounced was the quality
of the beer at the "Waggon and Horses." It certainly was bad.

In the Army Randle had no ambition except to get out of it and to remain a private while in
it. His ambition for his civil career was tremendous. He tried to prod the placid John (his
neighbour in their hut) into an equal ambition.

"My poor Hodge," said Randle to John, "you must cultivate a soul above manure. Does it satisfy
you, as a man made in the image of God, to be able to distinguish between a mangold and a swede?
Think of the glory of literature, the power of the writer to send forth his burning words to
millions and sway public opinion as the west wind sways the pliant willow."

"I dunno as I'd prefer that to bird-scaring or suchlike," murmured John.

Goaded by such beast-like placidity, Randle would forget all restraint in trying to lash John
into a worthy ambition.

It was for talking after "Lights out" that Randle and John were given a punishment of three
days' confinement to barracks. Randle, pouring out a devastating torrent of words in the manner
of a public orator, bitterly denounced the punishment; John, who had merely snored (the Captain
said it took two to make a conversation), bore it with the stoicism of ignorance.

Randle used to dream of Peace Day. He heard Sir DOUGLAS HAIG order his Chief-of-Staff to summon
Private Randle Janvers Binderbeck. "Release him at once," said HAIG, in Randle's dream, "to
resume his colossal mission as leader and director of public opinion."

If John dreamed, it was of messy farmyards and draughty fields; but it is improbable that he
dreamed at all.

They both went to the War and faced the Hun. Randle thought of the Hun only as a possible wrecker
of his career, therefore as a foe of mankind. John hardly thought of the Hun except in the
course of coming into contact with him, and then he used his bayonet with careless zeal.

Randle steeled himself against the rough edges of soldiering. He allowed neither the curses
of corporals nor the familiarities of second-lieutenants to affect his dreams of the future.
Always, even sotto voce in the last five minutes before going over the top, he kept before
John his vision splendid.

It was thoir luck to remain together and unhurt. Then arrived the great day when the Hun confessed
defeat. Randle vainly awaited a sign from the Commander-in-Chief.

There came, however, a moment when No. 12 Platoon was paraded at the Company Orderly-room.
Particulars were to be taken before filling up demobilisation forms. Men were to be grouped,
on paper, according to the nation's demand for their return to civil life.

Randle Janvers Binderbeck knew this was der Tag. Magnanimously he overlooked the delay and
felt that HAIG might, after all, have an excuse. John Hodge remained placid. He had long ago
classed Randle's goadings with heavies and machine-guns, as unavoidable incidents of warfare.

Randle and John were called into the orderly-room together. By an obvious error John was first
summoned to the table.

"Well, Hodge," said the Company Sergeant-Major, "what's your job in civil life?"

"I dunno as I got any special job," said John. "I just sort o' helped on the farm."

"You must have a group," said the C.S.M. "What did you mostly do before the War?"

"S' far as that do go," said John, "I were mostly a bird-scarer."

"'Bird-scarer,'" said the C.S.M. "I know there's a heading for that somewhere. Agricultural,
ain't it? 'Bird-scarer.' Ah, here we are. 'Group 1.' You'll be one of the first for release."

The Company Clerk noted the fact, and the C.S.M. called "Next man."

Randle Janvers Binderbeck stepped forward.

"What's your job, Binderbeck?" said the C.S.M.

(To ask Lord NORTHCLIFFE, "Do you sell newspapers?" To ask BOSWELL, "Have you heard of a man
named JOHNSON?" TO ask HENRY VIII, "Were you ever married?")

The futility of the question flabbergasted Randle.

"Come on, man," said the C.S.M.

Randle made an effort. "Journalist," he said.

"'Journalist,'" said the C.S.M., "'Journalist.' Yes, I thought so. 'Group 41.' You've got a
long way to go, my lad. You'd have done better if you was a bird-scarer, like Hodge. Them's
the boys the nation wants--Group 1 boys. You sticks in the Army for another six months' fatigue.
Next man."

That was all.

John Hodge is now soberly awaiting demobilisation, and will not have to wait long.

Randle Janvers Binderbeck is secretly consoling himself by writing the most denunciatory articles.
They will never be published, but they afford an alternative to cocaine.

He feels that he can never again consent to sway public opinion as the west wind, etc., in
the interests of a nation which rates him forty groups lower than an animated scarecrow.

It is the nation's own fault, Randle is blameless.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NOISY SALUTE.

From a review of The Remembered Kiss, in The Westminster Gazette:--

    "It would be doing Miss Ayres an injustice to suppose that
    there is only one kiss to remember in the whole of her novel,
    but the one which gives its title is bestowed by a young and
    handsome burglar, and received by a girl who mistook the noise
    he was making for a thunders torm."

As TENNYSON says in The Day-Dream: "O love, thy kiss would wake the dead!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FREAKS OF FOOD-CONTROL.

  Though Mrs. Midas shows a righteous zeal
  In preaching self-control at every meal,
  She never in her stately home forgets
  To cater freely for her precious pets.

  On cheese and soup she feeds her priceless "Pekie"--
  Stilton and Cheddar, Bortch and Cocky-leekie;
  And Max, her shrill-voiced "Pom," politely begs
  For his diurnal dole of new-laid eggs.

  Semiramis, her noble Persian cat,
  Threatens to grow inelegantly fat
  Upon asparagus and Shaker oats,
  With milk provided by two special goats.

  Meanwhile her governess subsists on greens,
  Canned conger-eel or cod and butter-beans,
  And often in a black ungrateful mood
  Envies the dogs and cat their daintier food.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "On one side was the naval guard of honour--splendid men from
    the ships of the Dover Patrol--and on the other side a military
    guard from the Garrison with the band of the Buffs waiting
    to play President Wilson into England with 'The tar-spangled
    Banner.'"--Provincial Paper.

A pretty compliment to the naval escort.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

Our Mr. MacTavish is a man with a past. He is now a cavalry subaltern and he was once a sailor.
As a soldier at sea is never anything but an object of derision to sailors, correspondingly
the mere idea of a sailor on horseback causes the utmost merriment among soldiers.

"Sailors on horseback!"--the very words bring visions of apoplectic mariners careering madly
across sands, three to a horse, every limb in convulsion. Why, it's one of the world's stock jokes.

The pathetic part of it is that, obeying the law of opposites, the saddle has an irresistible
and fatal attraction for the poor chaps. They take to it on every possible and impossible occasion.
You can see them playing alleged polo at Malta, riding each other off at right angles and employing
their sticks as grappling irons. You can see them over from the Rock whooping after Spanish
foxes, bestriding their steeds anywhere but in the appointed place.

As every proper farmer's boy has long, long thoughts of magic oceans, spice isles and clipper
ships, so I will warrant every normal Naval officer dreams of a little place in the grass counties,
a stableful of long-tails and immortal runs with the Quorn and Pytchley.

It was thus with our Mr. MacTavish, anyhow. A stern parent and a strong-armed crammer projected
him into the Navy, and in the Navy he remained for years bucketing about the salt seas in light
and wobbly cruisers, enforcing intricate Bait Laws off Newfoundland in mid-winter, or playing
hide-and-seek with elusive dhows on the Equator in midsummer, but always with a vision of that
little place in his mind's eye.

His opportunity arrived with the demise of the stern parent and the acquisition of a comfortable
legacy. MacTavish sent in his papers and stepped ashore for good. He discovered the haven of
his heart's desire in the neighbourhood of Melton, purchased a pig and a cow (which turned
out to be a bullock) to give the little place a homely air, engaged a terrier for ratting and
intercourse, and with the assistance of some sympathetic dealers was assembling as comprehensive
a collection of curbs, spavins, sprung tendons, pin-toes, herring-guts, ewe-necks, cow-hocks
and capped elbows as could be found between the Tweed and Tamar, when--Mynheer W. HOHENZOLLERN
(as he is to-day) went and done it.

The evening of August 4th, 1914, discovered MacTavish sitting on the wall of his pig-sty, his
happy hunting prospects shot to smithereens, arguing the position out with the terrier. He
must attend to this war, that was clear, but need he necessarily go back to the salt sea? Couldn't
he do his bit in some other service? What about the Cavalry? That would mean galloping about
Europe on a jolly old gee, shouting "Hurrah!" and cutlassing the foot-passengers. A merry life,
combining all the glories of fox-hunting with only twenty-five per cent. of its safety--according
to Jorrocks.

What about the Cavalry, then? The terrier semaphored complete approbation with its tail stump
and even the pig made enthusiastic noises.

A month later MacTavish turned up in a Reserve Regiment of Cavalry at the Curragh as a "young
officer." The Riding-Master treated his case as no more hopeless than anybody else's and MacTavish
was making average progress until one evening in the anteroom he favoured the company with
a few well-spiced Naval reminiscences.

Next morning the Riding-Master was convulsed with merriment at the mere sight of him, addressed
him variously as Jellicoe, Captain Kidd and Sinbad, and, after first warning MacTavish not
to imagine he was ashore at Port Said riding the favourite in a donkey Derby, translated all
his instructions into nautical language. For instance: "Right rein--haul the starboard yoke
line; gallop--full steam ahead; halt--cast anchor; dismount--abandon ship," and so forth, giving
his delicate and fanciful sense of humour full play and evoking roars of laughter from the
whole house. It did not take MacTavish long to realise that, no matter what he said, he would
never again be taken seriously in that place; he was, in fact, the world's stock joke, a sailor
on horseback (Ha, ha, ha!).

He set his jaw and was determined that he would not be caught tripping again; there should
be no more reminiscences. Once clear of Ireland he would bury his past.

All this happened years ago.

When I came back from leave the other day I asked for Albert Edward. "He and MacTavish are
up at Corpse H.Q.," said the skipper; "they're helping the A.P.M. straighten the traffic out.
By the way you'd better trickle up there and relieve them, as they're both going on leave in
a day or so."

I trickled up to Corpse and eventually discovered Albert Edward alone, practising the three-card
trick with a view to a career after the War. "You'll enjoy this Mess," said he, turning up
"the Lady" where he least expected her; "it's made up of Staff eccentrics--Demobilizing, Delousing,
Educational, Laundry and Burial wallahs--all sorts, very interesting; you'll learn how the
other half lives and all that. Oh, that reminds me. You know poor old MacTavish's secret, don't
you?"

"Of course," said I; "everybody does. Why?"

Albert Edward grinned. "Because there's another bloke here with a dark past, only this is t'other
way about; he's a bumpkin turned sailor, Blenkinsop by name, you know, the Shropshire hackney
breeders. He's Naval Division. Ever rub against those merchants?"

I had not.

"Well, I have," Albert Edward went on. "They're wonders; pretend they're in mid-ocean all the
time, stuck in the mud on the Beaucourt Ridge, gummed in the clay at Souchez--anywhere. They
'come aboard' a trench and call their records-office--a staid and solid bourgeois dwelling
in Havre--H.M.S. Victory. If you were bleeding to death and asked for the First Aid Post they
wouldn't understand you; you've got to say 'Sick bay' or bleed on. If you want a meal you've
got to call the cook-house 'The galley,' or starve.

"This matelot Blenkinsop has got it very badly. He obtained all his sea experience at the Crystal
Palace and has been mud-pounding up and down France for three years, and yet here we have him
now pretending there's no such thing as dry land."

"Not an unnatural delusion," I remarked.

"Well," resumed Albert Edward, "across the table from him sits our old MacTavish, lisping,
'What is the Atlantic? Is it a herb?' I'll bet my soul they're in their billets at this moment,
MacTavish mugging up some stable-patter out of NAT GOULD, and Blenkinsop imbibing a dose of
ship-chatter from 'BARTIMEUS.' They'll come in for food presently, MacTavish doing what he
imagines to be a 'cavalry-roll,' tally-hoing at the top of his voice, and Blenkinsop weaving
his walk like the tough old sea-dog he isn't, ship a-hoying and avasting for dear life."

"They're both going on leave with you to-morrow, aren't they?" I asked.

Albert Edward nodded.

"Then their game is up," said I.

Albert Edward's brow crinkled. "I don't quite get you."

"My dear old fool," said I, "it's blowing great guns now. With the leave-packet doing the unbusted
broncho act for two hours on end it shouldn't be very difficult to separate the sheep from
the goat, the true-blue sailor from the pea-green lubber, should it? They may be able to bluff
each other, but not the silvery Channel in mid-winter."

Albert Edward slapped his knee and laughed aloud.

       *       *       *       *       *

They all came back from England last night. I lost no time in cornering Albert Edward.

"Well, everything worked just as I prophesied, didn't it?" said I. "With the first buck the
old boat gave Blenkinsop tottered to the rail and--"

Albert Edward shook his head.

"No, he didn't. He ate a pound of morphia and lay in the Saloon throughout sleeping like a
little child."

"But MacTavish?" I stammered.

"Oh, MacTavish," said Albert Edward--"MacTavish took an emetic."

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

    "The post-war ---- will be the one car from which the owner with
    moderate ideas can obtain the minimum amount of genuine pleasure
    and satisfaction."--Advt. in Trade Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an account of a film-drama:--

    "Horrified at his pseudanimity she agrees to the
    deception,"--Provincial Paper.

It sounds rather pusillonymous.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL GOSSIP.

We are semi-officially informed on the best authority that the undermentioned nominations--some
of which have already been accepted--to the thrones and chairs now vacant in various parts
of the world have been made and approved by the Allied Governments.

Foremost among these is the nomination "by acclamation" of RICHARD STRAUSS as King of the Cannibal
Islands. It is understood that the illustrious composer has already arrived and that a grand
congress of Anthropophagi with suitable festivities is in contemplation.

Two nominations which have been the cause of great satisfaction in diplomatic circle are those
of Mr. MARK HAMBOURG to the Kingdom of Palestine, and that of M. MOISEIWITCH to the throne
of the Solomon Islands. Jamborees of jubilation are already rife in the latter locality.

Sir HENRY WOOD has been simultaneously approached from two quarters. The leading citizens of
Sonora have offered him the Presidentship of that interesting State. At the same time an urgent
invitation has been sent to the eminent conductor offering him the throne of the Empire of
Percussia. Sir HENRY'S decision is awaitod with feverish anxiety.

It is stated by the Corriere della Sera that Madame MELBA, the Australian nightingale, has
been chosen to preside over the Jug-jugo-Slav Republic, while Madame CLARA BUTT has been unanimously
elected Empress of Patagonia.

Sir THOMAS BEECHAM'S selection from among the candidates for the throne of New Guinea, is regarded
as a foregone conclusion. The famous violinist, Mr. ALBERT SAMMONS, has so far returned no
final answer to the offer of the Crown of Sordinia, but it is believed that he cannot long
remain mute to the touching appeal of the signatories. A favourable answer is also expected
from Mlle. Jelly Aranyi, who has been nominated Queen of Guava.

On the other hand Sir EDWARD ELGAR, O.M., has steadfastly declined the Tsardom of Bulgaria,
even though it was proposed to change the name of the country to Elgaria.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO AN EGYPTIAN BOY.

  Child of the gorgeous East, whose ardent suns
    Have kissed thy velvet skin to deeper lustre
      And given thine almond eyes
      A look more calm and wise
    Than any we pale Westerners can muster,
  Alas! my mean intelligence affords
  No clue to grasp the meaning of the words
    Which vehemently from thy larynx leap.
  How is it that the liquid language runs?
    "Nai--soring--trîf--erwonbi--aster--ferish--îp."

  E'en so, methinks, did CLEOPATRA WOO
    Her vanquished victor, couched on scented roses,
      And PHARAOH from his throne
      With more imperious tone
    Addressed in some such terms rebellious MOSES;
  And esoteric priests in Theban shrines,
  Their ritual conned from hieroglyphic signs,
    Thus muttered incantations dark and deep
  To Isis and Osiris, Thoth and Shu:
    "Nai--soring--trîf--erwonbi--aster--ferish--îp."

  In all my youthful studies why was this
    Left out? What tutor shall I blame my folly on?
      From Sekhet-Hetepu
      Return to mortal view,
    O shade of BRUGSCH or MARIETTE or CHAMPOLLION;
  Expound the message latent in his speech
  Or send a clearer medium, I beseech;
    For lo! I listen till I almost weep
  For anguish at the priceless gems I miss:
    "Nai--soring--trîf--erwonbi--aster--ferish--îp."

  To sundry greenish orbs arranged on trays--
    Unripe, unluscious fruit--he draws attention.
      My mind, till now so dark,
      Receives a sudden spark
    That glows and flames to perfect comprehension;
  And I, whom no Rosetta Stone assists,
  Become the peer of Egyptologists,
    From whom exotic tongues no secrets keep;
  For this is what the alien blighter says:
    "Nice orang'; three for one piastre; very cheap."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Napoleon was crowned Emperor of the French on December 2nd, 1804,
    and abdicated in 1914. On December 2nd, 1918, the papers announced
    the formal abdication of Wilhelm II. of Germany."--Kent
    Messenger.

WILHELM probably wishes that he had chosen the same date for his abdication as NAPOLEON.

       *       *       *       *       *

  When a dear little lady from Lancashire
  Came to London to act as a bank cashier,
    And asked, "Is it true
    1 + 1 = 2?"
  They thought they'd revert to a man cashier.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENTARY CASUALTIES.

Dear Mr. Punch,--I am told that Mr. ASQUITH considers that this has been a most unsatisfactory
election. So do I. As you know, the principal function of the House of Commons nowadays is
to provide amusing "copy" for the late editions of the evening papers and to give the "sketch"-writers
a chance of exercising their pretty wits. As Mr. SPENCER LEIGH HUGHES once remarked in an after-dinner
speech to Mr. BALFOUR, "You, Sir, are our raw material."

Now, what I complain of is that on the present occasion the voters have entirely disregarded
the needs of the journeymen of the Press, and have ruthlessly deprived them of the greater
part of their raw material. Mr. HUGHES himself, I am glad to see, has been spared, but he fortunately
had not to undergo the hazards of a contest. I tremble to think what his fate might have been
if at the last moment some stodgy statesman had been nominated to oppose him.

Against humour, conscious or unconscious, the voters seem to have solidly set their faces.
It was bad enough that Mr. JOE KING--who has probably helped to provide more deserving journalists
with a living than any other legislator who ever lived--should have declined the contest. Question-time
without Mr. KING and his unerring nose for mare's-nests will be like Alice without The Mad
Hatter. It was bad, too, that Sir HEDWORTH MEUX should have decided to interrupt the flow of
that eloquence which we were forbidden to call "breezy," and that Major "Boadicea" HUNT, Mr.
JOHN BURNS, Mr. TIM HEALY, and Mr. SWIFT MACNEILL should have withdrawn from a scene in which
they had provided so much profitable entertainment for the gods in the Press Gallery.

These losses made it all the more incumbent upon the electors to see that the House should
retain as much as possible of the remnant of its comic relief. But what do we find? Why, that
practically every one of the gentlemen who made the journalist's life worth living in the last
Parliament has been cruelly turned down.

For much of this grief the Sinn Feiners are responsible. They have easily accomplished what
a few years ago six stalwart British constables could scarcely do and have removed the gigantic
Mr. FLAVIN from his emerald bench. With him have gone nearly all his comrades; and the once-powerful
Nationalist party, which for nearly forty years has been such an unfailing source of sparkling
paragraphs, is reduced to the number immortalised by WORDSWORTH'S little maid.

Almost more distressing than the loss of individuals is the breaking up of Parliamentary partnerships.
What is the use of Mr. HOUSTON being returned if he has no longer Sir LEO CHIOZZA MONEY to
heckle? Captain PRETYMAN-NEWMAN will doubtless continue to ask questions about the shocking
condition of his native country, but without Mr. REDDY'S squeaking obbligato, "Why isn't the
honourable and gallant Member out at the Front?" they will lose half their savour. He will
be as dull as Io without her gad-fly. Mr. "Boanerges" STANTON is happily still with us, but
with no pacifists to bellow at I fear that his vocal chords will atrophy.

