Here everything is as clear as day. Take any note--as =5=, for example. This is sol--always
sol, and never by any chance anything else. If it has a dot under, it is sol of the octave
below the middle; if it has no dot, it belongs to the middle octave; and if it has a dot above,
it belongs to the octave above the middle. These three octaves are amply sufficient for all
the purposes of vocal music, which alone is considered here. For instrumental music, where
many octaves are used, the system is modified without losing its simplicity and conciseness.
To represent the flats, Galin crosses the numerals with a line like the grave accent, and marks
the sharps by a line like the acute accent. Above the line of numerals is written simply "Key
of G," "Key of A flat," etc. The pitch, of course, must be taken from the tuning-fork or a
musical instrument, as it is in all cases.

Second. The same idea should always be presented by the same sign: the same sign should always
represent the same idea.

It has already been shown how this principle is disregarded; but take, for further illustration,
the symbols indicating silence. There are seven different kinds of rests, and there is no need
of more than one. These signs are:

Again: these rests may be followed by one or two dots, which increase their duration. For example:
an eighth-note rest dotted equals an eighth note and a sixteenth; and followed by two dots
it equals an eighth, a sixteenth and a thirty-second note in time. That is, the first dot prolongs
the rest one-half or a sixteenth, and the second dot prolongs the value of the first dot one-half
or a thirty-second.

To a disciple of Galin it is really amazing that such a bungling, unscientific way of expressing
silence should have been tolerated so long. Compare these "pot-hooks and trammels," dotted
and double-dotted, with Galin's symbol of silence, the cipher (0)! This is all, and yet it
expresses every length of rest, as will be shown presently.

Let us now examine the symbols representing the prolongation of a sound. There are three ways
by the common notation, where there should be but one. First, by the form of the note itself, as--

Second, by one or more dots after a note, the first dot prolonging the note one-half, and the
second dot prolonging the first in the same ratio. Third, by the repetition of the note with
a vinculum or tie, the second note not being sung or played. Galin uses simply a dot. It may
be repeated, as a rest or a note may, but then its value is not changed, any more than in the
case of notes or rests repeated. For example:

  KEY OF E.

    1|3556|5.31|[7.]143|3.21|

Here are the first measures of a well-known hymn in common time, four beats to the measure.
As all isolated signs, whether notes, prolongations or rests, fill a unit of time, or beat,
it follows that the dots following sol and mi prolong these through an entire beat, for the
dots are isolated signs. Whatever the time, each unit of it appears separate and distinct to
the eye at a glance; and all the notes, rests or prolongations that fill a beat are always
united in a special way. This will be more fully shown hereafter.

Third.

The first thing that the student of music encounters is a staff of five lines, armed with flats
or sharps, the signature of the key, or with no signature, which shows that the music upon
it is in the key of C. On this staff he sees notes which are of different pitch, and probably
of different length. In any case, there are at least three difficulties presented in a breath--to
find the name of the note, give it its proper sound, and then its proper length; and these
difficulties are still greater because the ideas, as we have seen, are hidden under defective
symbols.

Take all the teachers of vocal music, says M. Chevé, place them upon their honor, and let them
answer the following question: "How many readers of music can you guarantee by your method,
out of a hundred pupils taken at random and entirely ignorant of music, by one hour of study
a day during one year?" The reply, he thinks, will be: "Not many." And if you tell them that
by another method you will agree in the same time to teach eighty in a hundred to read music
currently, and also to write music, new to them, dictated by an instrument placed out of sight
or from the voice "vocalizing," they will all declare that the thing is impossible.

The great composers and renowned performers are cited as examples of what the ordinary methods
have accomplished. No, replies Chevé: they are exceptional organizations. The methods have
not produced them. They have, on the contrary, arrived at their proficiency despite the methods,
while thousands fail who might reach a high degree of excellence but for the obstacles presented
by a false system to a clear understanding of the theory of music, which in itself is so simple
and precise. In the study of harmony especially, says the same authority, does the want of
a clear presentation of the theory produce the most deplorable results. It has made the science
of harmony wellnigh unintelligible even to those called musicians. Ask them why flats and sharps
are introduced into the scales; why there is one sharp in the key of G major and five in B
major; why you spoil the minor scale by making it one thing in ascending and another in descending--that
is, by robbing it of its modal superior in ascending and of its sensible in descending. They
will in most cases be unable to answer, for neither teachers nor textbooks explain. The catechisms
found in most of the elementary works upon music are replete with stumbling-blocks to the young
musician. Mr. R. H. Palmer, author of Elements of Musical Composition, Rudimental Class-Teaching
and several other works, says in one of his catechisms that "there are two ways of representing
each intermediate tone. If its tendency is upward, it is represented upon the lower of two
degrees, and is called sharp; if its tendency is downward, it is represented upon the higher
of two degrees, and is called flat. There are exceptions to this, as to all rules." This is
deplorable. Music is a mathematical science, and in mathematics there is no such thing as an
exception to a rule. But to quote further from the same catechism: "A natural is used to cancel
the effect of a previous sharp or flat. If the tendency from the restored tone is upward, the
natural has the capacity of a sharp; if downward, the capacity of a flat. A tone is said to
resolve when it is followed by a tone to which it naturally tends." How long would novices
in the science of music rack their brains before they would comprehend what the teacher meant
by a tone tending somewhere "naturally," or by the tendency of a restored tone being destroyed
by the "capacity of a flat"? The same writer, speaking of the scale of G flat, says it is a
"remarkable feature of this scale that it is produced upon the organ and piano by pressing
the same keys which are required to produce the scale of F sharp." This is precisely equivalent
to saying that it is a remarkable feature that the notes C, D, E, F are produced by pressing
the same keys which are required to produce do, ré, mi, fa.

One more citation from the same author. Speaking of the formation of scales, he says: "Thus
we have another perfectly natural scale by making use of two sharps." This vicious use of the
term "natural" is deplorable, because it is apt to give the pupil the notion that some scales
are more natural than others. A certain note is called "C natural," and it is not uncommon
for learners to suppose that it is easier or more natural to sing in that key, as it is easier
on the piano to play anything in it because only the white keys are used, while in any other
at least one black key is required. Indeed, a pupil may study music a long time before he finds
out that there is no difference between flats and sharps, as such, and other notes--that all
notes are flats and sharps of the notes a semitone above and below. Seeing the staff of a piece
of music armed with half a dozen sharps or flats, the first thought of the pupil is that it
will be rather hard to sing. And many really suppose that flats and sharps in themselves are
different from other notes--a little "flatter" or "sharper" in sound perhaps--and secretly
wonder why their ear cannot detect it. Of course it may be said that there is no necessity
for pupils to have such absurd notions, but it is inevitable where the theory of music is made
so difficult for the beginner. No doubt the ambitious and naturally studious will delve and
dig among the rubbish of imperfect textbooks, analyzing and comparing the explanations of different
teachers, until order takes the place of chaos; but textbooks should be adapted to ordinary
capacities, and thereby they will better serve the needs of the most brilliant.

Fourth. The memory should never be drawn upon except where reasoning is impossible.

In science you have general laws, and from these deduce particular facts depending upon them,
but collections of facts and phenomena without connection you must learn by heart. The extensive
and involved nomenclature of music, added to the complicated and inconsistent system of notation,
is a continual and exhausting strain upon the memory. Teachers commence their drill in vocalization,
as a rule, with the scale of the key of C, and the pupils, fired with a noble ambition to become
musicians, make a strenuous effort to remember where do, ré, mi and the other notes are placed
on the lines and spaces of the staff. Presently the "key is changed," and with that change
comes chaos. All the notes are now on a different series of lines and spaces. The confusion
continues until the series of seven notes is exhausted. Then come scales with new names, commencing
upon different notes (flats and sharps), but with places on the staff identically the same
as others having different names!

Long before this point is reached by the pupil his courage flags, his ambition cools, and in
the greater number of cases dies out altogether. To be sure, if he has the rare courage to
persist he will come to recognize the notes of any key, not by the number of lines or spaces
intervening between them and some landmark, but by their relative distances from each other
measured by the eye. But this requires long practice. At first he must remember if he can,
and when he cannot he must count up to his unknown note from some remembered one. It is, at
best, a labor of Sisyphus. With many people--bright and intelligent people, too--it requires
years of practice to read new music at sight even tolerably readily; for it is not simply a
question of learning the notes, difficult as that may be: there is a further difficulty, and
to many even a greater difficulty--that of the measure. Not the number of beats in a measure
or bar and their proper accentuation--this is but the alphabet of time--but to group correctly
and rapidly the fractional notes, rests and prolongations in their proper place in time. In
very rapid music this becomes an herculean task, requiring long-continued and arduous practice.
It is not simply a question of nice appreciation of rhythm, but of mathematical calculation,
to know instantly and unhesitatingly, for example, that one-sixteenth, one half of one-sixteenth
and one thirty-second added together equal one-eighth--that is, one-third of the unit of time
or beat in six-eighths time.

Any one can see that such mental feats, ever varying as they are in music, and demanding instant
solution at the same time the attention is given to the intonation, style, etc., must require
an exceptional temperament and natural capacity. The fact is, it is beyond the power of most
musicians. They must practise their instrumental and vocal music, and learn it nearly "by heart,"
before they attempt to perform it for others.

The writer of this has attended a class taught by one of Chevé's pupils, and can testify to
the efficiency of the method, though the lessons were a very modest attempt to exemplify the
perfection of the system. The lessons of M. and Mme. Chevé were divided into three parts: first,
a drill in the principles of the theory of music; second, singing scales and exercises; third,
drills in "reading time," beating time, analyzing time, etc., ending with some diverting "round"
or "catch" or some exercise in vocal harmonies. On their method of teaching time, more than
on any other part of their system perhaps, did the grand success of the Chevés depend. Rhythm
was always taught separately from intonation, it being contrary to their principle to present
two difficulties together before each had been mastered alone.

The first grand law of Galin's system is that every isolated symbol represents a unit of time
or beat, whatever the measure. For example:

     5, unit of sound articulated.
     ., unit of sound prolonged.
     0, unit of silence.

The second law is that the various divisions of the unit of time are always united in a group
under a principal bar, and such a bar always contains the unit of time--never more, never less.
To illustrate:

     H |         T | 
     A | 55        H | 555
     L |         I | 
     V | ..        R | ...
     E |         D | 
     S | 00        S | 000
     . |           . |

Here the units of time--the numeral, the dot and the cipher--are divided first into two equal
parts, and then into three. In both cases the groups represent units of time--one beat of a
measure--according to the rule. It will be noticed that the form of the notes is the same whether
whole or divided into fractions; that is, there are no different forms for "crotchets," "quavers,"
"semiquavers," etc., the expression of time being better provided for. Thus, halves or thirds
are indicated to the eye by a single bar surmounting two signs for halves, three for thirds.
If the halves or thirds have in their turn been divided by two, then the principal bar covers
two little groups of two signs each; if the halves or thirds have been divided by three, then
each principal bar covers two or three little groups of three signs each.

Nothing could be more simple than this. The eye has always before it, separate and distinct,
the unit of time or beat; and the mind apprehends instantly the number of articulated sounds,
prolongations or silences (rests) that must be sung or played during that beat. The eye has
no hesitation, the mind no calculation, as to what note commences or ends a beat. Even the
most modest student of music will see the immense advantage of this. Nor is there any need
for the multiplicity of fractions to express different kinds of time. The moment the eye rests
upon the score the student knows the measure as definitely and certainly as he knows the letters
of the alphabet.

"And is this all there is in this system of notation?" some one will ask. Practically, Yes.
There are the symbols of intonation, the numerals and the dot--the dot below or above the notes
showing the octave ([5.] [.5]); the two diagonal lines indicating flats or sharps (\3 /3);
the horizontal bar indicating the time (123 123[*]); and the vertical line or bar dividing
the measures (123 | 432 |).

[*: 123 123]

The following is the air "God Save the Queen!" or, as we call it, "America," written in this
method. The lower line, of course, is the alto:

  KEY OF G.

  1    1     2   |  7   .  1    2   | 3 3 4 | 3  .  2 1 |  2    1    7   |
  [5.] [5.] [6.] | [5.] . [6.] [7.] | 1 1 1 | 1  [7.] 1 | [6.] [5.] [5.] |

  1 . 0 | 5 5 5 | 5 . 4 3 | 4    4    4   | 4 . 3  2   |
  5 . 0 | 3 3 3 | 3 . 2 1 |[7.] [7.] [7.] | 2 . 1 [7.] |

  3  4    3    2    1   | 3 . 4 5 | 6 4 3  2   | 1 . . ||
  1 [6.] [5.] [4.] [3.] | 1 . 1 1 | 1   1 [7.] | 5 . . ||

It will be noticed that the dot in the second measure which prolongs the note si (7) is not
placed against it, as we are accustomed to see it. It is carried forward into the second beat,
where it belongs. There it is grouped with the note do (1), and occupies one half of that unit
of time; for all the signs grouped under a line or under the same number of lines are equal
in time to each other, the same as all isolated signs are. In the sixth measure the dot is
isolated; therefore it fills the whole beat, while the following beat is represented by a rest
(0). In two of the measures there are groups of two notes. Each of the notes in these groups
of course equals in time half of an isolated note, for each occupies half the time of one beat.

The French say déchiffrer la musique--to puzzle it out, to decipher it, as one would say of
hieroglyphs on an Egyptian sarcophagus. The term is well chosen. The causes of the obscurity
of musical notation are numerous, but the most prolific is undoubtedly expressing time by the
form of the symbols of sound. In slow movements, and where only few modulations occur, this
does not seem to be a serious objection; but in the rapid movements of compound time it becomes
insupportable--at least after one has learned that there is a better way. An example in 6/8
time--six eighth-notes to the measure--will illustrate this:

Here each triplet fills the time of one-third of a beat; that is, three-sixteenths equal one-eighth,
according to the sublime precision of the old notation! But then no such thing as a twenty-fourth
note is in use: three twenty-fourths would just do it! This is a part of a vocal exercise.
The learner would have to divide each beat into three parts each, unless very familiar with
such exercises; and one of these divisions would fall on a rest, another in a prolongation,
another in the middle of an eighth note. In the new method see how the crooked places are straightened:

     ---------------   ---------------
        -----  -----      -----  -----
     1  0 2 3  4 3 2   1  . 2 3  . 4 5

It "sings itself" the moment you look at it, after a little study of this rational notation.
Note also that there is no mathematical absurdity here: the division is logical, and yet the
air is perfectly expressed in every particular.

The mastery of time in music is at best an arduous task, yet teachers of music, as a rule,
expect their pupils to learn it incidentally while studying intonation. They give no special
drill in pure time at every lesson; and the result is that army of mediocre singers and players
who never become able to execute any but the very simplest music at sight. They may know the
theory of time, may be able to explain to you clearly the divisions of every measure, but this
is not sufficient for the musician: he must decipher his measures with great readiness, precision
and rapidity, or he never rises above the mediocre. The ambition to excel without hard labor
is the bane of students of the piano especially. It leads them to muddle over music too difficult
for them; finally, to learn it after a fashion, so that they may be able to "rattle and bang"
through it to the delight of fond relatives and the amazement and pity of severe culture. Not
that we should have consideration for all that passes for severe culture and exquisite sensitiveness
among musical dilettanti. In no field of art is there so much affectation, assumption and charlatanry
as in music. Some years ago a musician in New York of considerable reputation refused to play
on a friend's piano because, as he said, it was a little out of tune and his ear was excruciated
by the slightest discord. The lady wondered that the instrument should be out of tune, as it
was new and of a celebrated manufacturer. She sent to the establishment where it was made,
however, and a tuner promptly appeared. He tried the A string with his tuning-fork, ran his
fingers over the keyboard, declared the piano in perfect tune, and left. That evening the musician
called, and was informed that a tuner had "been exercising his skill" upon the instrument.
Thereupon he graciously condescended to play for his hostess, and the sensitiveness of his
ear was no longer shocked. She never dared to undeceive him, but mentioned the fact to another
musician, a violinist, who exclaimed, greatly amused, "The idea of a pianist pretending to
be fastidious about concord in music! Why, the instrument at its best is a bundle of discords."
Both of these musicians were guilty of affectation; for, although the piano's chords are slightly
dissonant, the intervals of the chromatic scale are made the same by the violin-player as by
the pianist. What right, then, has the former to complain? To be sure, the violinist can make
his intervals absolutely correct: he can play the enharmonic scale, which one using any of
the instruments with fixed notes cannot do. But does he, practically? Does he not also make
the same note for C sharp and D flat? The violinist mentioned of course alluded to the process
called equal temperament, by which piano-makers, to avoid an impracticable extent of keyboard,
divide the scale into eleven notes at equal intervals, each one being the twelfth root of 2,
or 1.05946. This destroys the distinction between the semitones, and C sharp and D flat become
the same note. Scientists show us that they are different notes, easily distinguished by the
ear. Representing the vibrations for C as 1, we shall have--

  C   C#    Db     D     D#    Eb     E,  etc.
  1 25/24  27/24  8/9  75/64  6/5    5/4, etc.

each note being increased by one twenty-fourth of itself, or in absolute vibrations--

   C    C#   Db    D    D#   Eb     E,  etc.
  261  271  271   293  305  303    326, etc.

This is the enharmonic scale, having twenty-one notes. The chromatic has eleven, and the name--it
may be remarked in passing--is from the Greek word for "color" ([Greek: chrôma]) because the
old composers wrote these notes in colors, and had them so printed. Not a bad idea, surely:
many a learner on the piano would be overjoyed to see all the ugly flats and sharps on the
staff in brilliant holiday dress.

There is no reason at this day, when science in all fields is making such progress, why the
ordinary music-teacher should have so limited a knowledge of his subject. He should be able
to explain the fundamental principles of the different scales upon the theory of vibration,
and to so educate the apprehension of his pupils that they will not be content with the imperfect
catechisms of the music-books in vogue. And with the adoption of a rational system of writing
music, which will reduce the time and labor of learning it to one half, there will be time
for the niceties of a science of such vast importance to the culture--and, indirectly, to the
moral progress--of the world.

MARIE HOWLAND.

SAMBO: A MAN AND A BROTHER.

"But," I said eagerly, "you do not deny that slavery was a curse to the country--to Southerners
most of all?"

"My dear fellow," said Captain S----, knocking off the ashes from his cigar, "don't go into
that! We were talking about negroes, not about slavery. I suppose," he added meditatively,
"there are not many men in the country who have faced more of the negro race than those of
us who spent some part of our term of service in the Freedmen's Bureau. Imagine settling disputes
from morning till night between negroes and between negroes and whites! If you abolitionists--as
you called yourselves before the emancipation--want to have some of the romance and sentiment
of negroism dissolved, live amongst them for a time."

"You were in Virginia?" I said.

"Yes, but the negroes there are a better class than in the States farther South and more remote
from cities."

"How better?"

"Well, more intelligent. To see the deepest ignorance you have to go to the cotton-plantations,
miles in extent, where men, women and children have been born and have died as cotton-pickers.
Of course I am not now speaking of the freedmen as they are, for it is ten years since I was
on duty in G----, Mississippi, where all the horrors of freedom were first revealed to the
poor creatures."

"'Horrors of freedom!'" I repeated.

"It meant starvation to many, and intense suffering to others. Turn out a nursery of children
of five years old to care for themselves, and they will fare better than many of the grown
men and women of whom I knew in my Southern experiences."

"You relieved G---- of the --th regiment?" I said.

"Yes, and I often think of our meeting at the dépôt. He had about two minutes before taking
the train to Vicksburg. 'Cap,' he said, 'go to Sim's to board. Real Southern hospitality, and
his wife's a mother if you are sick--bound to have bilious fever, you know. And, Cap, those
confounded niggers think the Bureau is bound to back them up, right or wrong, and in about
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred they're wrong. Clerk's got the reports and papers.'"

"Well?" I said.

"He was right. The way those planters allowed the negroes to impose upon their good-nature
and true generosity confounded me. I went to relieve an oppressed race, and, by Jove! I was
inclined to consider the planters in that light."

"But I don't understand."

"I'll show you. When the planters found they could still have the practised slave-labor in
the cotton-fields by paying fair wages, they made contracts with the negroes by the year. It
was my fortune to be the referee on all disputes on the accounts of the first year of such
contracts, and I solemnly declare the liberality and consideration of the planters would astonish
the hard-fisted business-men of some of our factories. They knew the improvidence of the race,
and out of regard for them, instead of paying them in money, they allowed them to obtain goods
in their names at the leading stores. Almost invariably these bills exceeded the amount stipulated
for in the contract, but I never knew one case where the employer made the negroes work out
their debt. When I would tell them how the accounts came out, they said: 'Well, captain, let
it go: I'll pay the bills. These poor fellows do not understand the use of money yet.'

"But the negroes had the laws of possession, the rights of freedom and privileges of slavery
in such a hopeless muddle that no Gordian knot ever required more patience than an effort to
enlighten them as to their rights and wrongs. The only limit set to their credit at the stores
was that the purchases were to be confined to food and clothing. Without any idea of money
or economy, they were wasteful, and heard with long faces that the pile of money they confidently
expected was awaiting them had already been spent. Conversations like the following occurred
many times a day:

"'No money, Mars' Cap'n? Why, ole mars' he done 'greed to gib me fou' hund'ed dollars dis year,
an' I done worked faithful, Mars' Cap'n; an' now I ain't to have nuffin'!'

"'But you have had nearly five hundred dollars.'

"'Clare to Goodness, Mars' Cap'n, I ain't had one cent--not one cent.'

"'But you have had it in meal, bacon, calico and other goods at the store.'

"'But dey allers gives a nigga his food and clothes, Mars' Cap'n--allers. We ain't got to pay
for dat ar, for sure?'

"'Yes. Now you can earn your own money you must pay for your own food.'

