The two little friends were rather unhappy about this, but they waited quietly. By and by the
weather grew cold. The air was so chill that the Maple-leaf shivered in the night, and in the
morning, when the sun rose, and he could see himself, he found he was all red, just as your
hands and cheeks are on a frosty morning. When the mother-tree saw him, she told him he would
soon leave her now, and she bade him good- by. He was sorry to go, but then he thought of his
dear Violet, and was happy again.

By and by a gust of cold wind came blowing by, and twisted the little leaf about, and fluttered
him so that he could not hold to the tree any longer. So at last he blew off, and the wind
took him up and danced with him and played with him until he was very tired and dizzy. But
at last, for he was a kind wind after all, he blew the leaf back, straight to the side of the
Violet. How close they cuddled to each other, and how happy they were! You would have been
very glad if you had seen them together.

In the morning, when the sun rose yellow and bright, Bessie came into the woods with a basket
and a trowel. It was nearly winter, and she knew that soon the snow would fall and cover all
the pretty growing things. So she dug up, very carefully, roots of plumy fern and partridge
berries with their leaves, and wintergreen and boxberry plants, to grow in her window-garden
in the winter. She took the Violet too, bringing away so much of the earth around her roots
that the little thing scarcely felt that she had been moved. As Bessie put her plants in the
basket, she saw the little Maple-leaf resting close by the violet, but he looked so pretty,
lying there, that she did not move him.

In the sunny window of the little brown house the Violet grew still more fresh and green. But
each day, as the plants were watered, the Maple-leaf curled up a little more at the edges,
and sank down farther into the earth, until soon he was almost out of sight, and by and by
crumbled quite away. Still he was close beside his Violet, and all the strength he had he gave
to her roots.

She always loved him just the same, though she could not see him any longer, and by and by,
when she had lived her life, and her leaves withered away, each one, as it fell from the stem,
sank into the earth where the Maple-leaf lay.

MRS. CHINCHILLA.

THE TALE OF A CAT.

"See what joyous faces, what shining eyes, and what glad jubilee welcome the story-teller,
and what a blooming circle of glad children press around him!"--FROEBEL.

Mrs. Chinchilla was not a lovely lady, with a dress of soft gray cloth and a great chinchilla
muff and boa. Not at all. Mrs. Chinchilla was a beautiful cat, with sleek fur like silver-gray
satin, and a very handsome tail to match, quite long enough to brush the ground when she walked.
She didn't live in a house, but she had a very comfortable home in a fine drug-store, with
one large bay-window almost to herself and her kittens. She had three pretty fat dumplings
of kittens, all in soft shades of gray like their mother. She didn't like any other color in
kittens so well as a quiet ladylike gray. None of her children ever were black, or white, or
yellow, but sometimes they had four snow- white socks on their gray paws. Mrs. Chinchilla didn't
mind that, for white socks were really a handsome finish to a gray kitten, though, of course,
it was a deal of trouble to keep them clean.

