[307] The expedition then made for Maghair Shu'ayb, the Madiama of Ptolemy and the old capital
of the land. Here they spent a "silly fortnight, searching for gold," which refused to answer
even to the diving rod. They saw catacombs--the Tombs of the Kings--some of which were scrawled
with graffiti, laboured perhaps by some idle Nabathaean boy in the time of Christ. They found
remains of furnaces, picked up some coins, and saw undoubted evidences of ancient opulence.
That was all. Thence they made for Makna, passing on their way a catacombed hill called "the
Praying Place of Jethro," and a shallow basin of clay known as Moses' Well. From Makna, where
they found their gunboat waiting for them, they then cruised to El Akabah, the ancient Eziongeber,
in whose waters had ridden the ships of Solomon laden with the merchandise of India and Sheba.
They reached Moilah again on February 13th. The second journey, which took them due East as
far as the arid Hisma, lasted from February 17th to March 8th. Burton considered the third
journey the most important, but as they found nothing of any consequence it is difficult to
understand why. First they steamed to El Wijh, in the "Sinnar," which had taken the place of
the Mukhbir, and then marched inland to the ancient mines of Abul Maru. But Burton now saw
the futility of attempting to proceed further. On April 10th they were back again at El Wijh,
on the 18th at Moilah and on the 20th at Suez.

In the meantime, Mrs. Burton had left Trieste, in order to join her husband. She stayed a week
at Cairo, where she met General Gordon, who listened smilingly to her anticipations respecting
the result of the expedition, and then she went on to Suez. Writing to her nieces, the Misses
Stisted, 23rd March 1878, she said: "I have taken a room looking across the Red Sea and desert
towards Midian, and hope at last to finish my own book [A.E.I., Arabia, Egypt and India]. What
on earth Paul is doing with Richard's Midian [308] God only knows. I have written and telegraphed
till I am black in the face, and telegrams cost 2s. 6d. a word." At last on 20th April, while
Mrs. Burton was in church, a slip of paper was put into her hand: "The 'Sinnar' is in sight."

Determined that the Khedive should have something for his money, Burton and his company had,
to use Mrs. Burton's expression, "returned triumphantly," with twenty-five tons of minerals
and numerous objects of archaeological interest. The yield of the argentiferous and cupriferous
ores, proved, alas! to be but poor. They went in search of gold, and found graffiti! But was
Burton really disappointed? Hardly. In reading about every one of his expeditions in anticipation
of mineral wealth, the thought forces itself upon us that it was adventure rather than gold,
sulphur, diamonds and silver that he really wanted. And of the lack of that he never had reason
to complain.

An exhibition of the specimens, both mineralogical and archaeological, was held at the Hippodrome,
and all Cairo flocked to see "La Collection," as the announcement expressed it, "rapportee
par le Capitaine Burton." [309] The Khedive opened the exhibition in person, and walked round
to look at the graffiti, the maps, the sketches of ruins and the twenty-five tons of rock,
as nobody had more right; and Burton and M. Marie the engineer accompanied him.

"Are you sure," enquired the Khedive, pointing to some of the rocks, "that this and this contain
gold?"

"Midian," replied M. Marie, blandly, "is a fine mining country."

And that information was all the return his Highness got for his little outlay of one thousand
nine hundred and seventy one pounds twelve shillings and sixpence.

Returned to Trieste, Burton once more settled down to his old dull life. The most interesting
letter of this period that has come to our hands is one written to Sir Henry Gordon, [310]
brother of Colonel, afterwards General Gordon.

It runs: "Dear Sir, I am truly grateful to you for your kind note of June 30th and for the
obliging expressions which it contains. Your highly distinguished brother, who met my wife
at Suez, has also written me a long and interesting account of Harar. As you may imagine, the
subject concerns me very nearly, and the more so as I have yet hopes of revisiting that part
of Africa. It is not a little curious that although I have been in communication with Colonel
Gordon for years, we have never yet managed to meet. Last spring the event seemed inevitable,
and yet when I reached Suez, he had steamed south. However, he writes to me regularly, scolding
me a little at times, but that is no matter. I hope to be luckier next winter. I expect to
leave Trieste in a few days [311] and to make Liverpool via long sea. Both Mrs. Burton and
I want a medicine of rest and roast beef as opposed to rosbif. Nothing would please me more
than to meet you and talk over your brother's plans. My direction is Athenaeum Club, and Woolwich
is not so difficult to explore as Harar was. Are we likely to meet at the British Association?"

95. Death of Maria Stisted, 12th November 1878.

Burton and his wife reached London on July 27th (1878). Presently we hear of them in Ireland,
where they are the guests of Lord Talbot of Malahide, and later he lectured at various places
on "Midian" and "Ogham Runes." Again Gordon tried to draw him to Africa, this time with the
offer of £5,000 a year, but the answer was the same as before. Then came a great blow to Burton--the
death of his beloved niece--"Minnie"--Maria Stisted. Mrs. Burton, who was staying at Brighton,
wrote to Miss Georgiana Stisted a most kind, sympathetic and beautiful letter--a letter, however,
which reveals her indiscreetness more clearly, perhaps, than any other that we have seen. Though
writing a letter of condolence--the sincerity of which is beyond doubt--she must needs insert
remarks which a moment's consideration would have told her were bound to give offence--remarks
of the kind that had already, indeed, made a gulf between her and Burton's relations.

She says: "My poor darling Georgy, I do not know how to write or what to say to you in such
poignant grief. I think this is the most terrible blow that could have happened to Maria (Lady
Stisted) and you. I do not grieve for Minnie, because, as I told Dick in my letter, her pure
soul has known nothing but religion and music, and is certainly in its own proper place among
the angels, but I do grieve for you with all my heart.... It is no use to talk to you about
'Time healing the wound,' or 'resigning oneself to what is inevitable,' but I have so long
studied the ways of God, that I know He has taken the angel of your house as He always does,
that this is a crisis in your lives, there is some change about to take place, and some work
or new thing you have to do in which Minnie was not to be. I can only pray for you with all
my heart, as I did at communion this morning." So far, so good, but then comes: "and have masses
said to create another gem upon Minnie's crown."

Yet Mrs. Burton knew that she was writing to staunch Protestants whom such a remark would make
positively to writhe. Still, in spite of her indiscretions, no human being with a heart can
help loving her. She then goes on: "Please know and feel that though the world looks dark,
you have always a staunch friend in me. Dick feels Minnie's death fearfully. He telegraphed
to me and writes every day about it. I don't think he is in a state of health to bear many
shocks just now, he is so frightfully nervous. He so little expected it, he always thought
it was only one of the little ailments of girls, and Maria (Lady Stisted) was over anxious;
so it has come like a sledge-hammer upon him. I feel what a poor letter this is, but my heart
is full, and I do not know how to express myself. Your attached and sympathising Aunt Zoo."

Burton was just then engaged upon his work The Land of Midian Revisited, and he dedicated it
to the memory of his "much loved niece."

96. Burton's "Six Senses."

On 2nd December 1878, Burton lectured at 38, Great Russell Street before the British National
Association of Spiritualists--taking as his subject, "Spiritualism in Foreign Lands." His ideas
on Spiritualism had been roughly outlined some time previous in a letter to The Times. [312]
He said that the experience of twenty years had convinced him: (1) that perception is possible
without the ordinary channels of the senses, and (2) that he had been in the presence of some
force or power which he could not understand. Yet he did not believe that any spirits were
subject to our calls and caprices, or that the dead could be communicated with at all. He concluded,
"I must be contented to be at best a spiritualist without the spirits." The letter excited
interest. The press commented on it, and street boys shouted to one another, "Take care what
you're doing! You haven't got Captain Burton's six senses." At Great Russell Street, Burton
commenced by defending materialism. He could not see with Guizot that the pursuit of psychology
is as elevating as that of materialism is degrading. What right, he asked, had the theologian
to limit the power of the Creator. "Is not the highest honour His who from the worst can draw
the best?" [313] He then quoted his letter to The Times, and declared that he still held the
same opinions. The fact that thunder is in the air, and the presence of a cat may be known
even though one cannot see, hear, taste, smell or feel thunder or the cat. He called this force--this
sixth sense--zoo-electricity. He then gave an account of spiritualism, thaumaturgy, and wizardry,
as practised in the East, concluding with a reference to his Vikram and the Vampire. "There,"
said he, "I have related under a facetious form of narrative many of the so-called supernaturalisms
and preternaturalisms familiar to the Hindus." [314] These studies will show the terrible 'training,'
the ascetic tortures, whereby men either lose their senses, or attain the highest powers of
magic, that is, of commanding nature by mastering the force, whatever it may be, here called
zoo-electric, which conquers and controls every modification of matter. [315] His lecture concluded
with an account of a Moorish necromancer, which reminds us of the Maghrabi incident in "the
Story of Judar." When Burton sat down, Mrs. Burton asked to be allowed to speak. Indeed, she
never hesitated to speak upon any subject under the sun, whether she did not understand it,
as was almost invariably the case, or whether she did; and she always spoke agreeably. [316]
She pointed out to the spiritualists that they had no grounds to suppose that her husband was
one of their number, and stated her belief that the theory of zoo-electricity would suit both
spiritualists and non-spiritualists. Then, as a matter of course, she deftly introduced the
"one Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church" to which it was her "glory to belong," and which this
theory of Burton's "did not exactly offend." As regards the yogis and the necromancers she
insisted that her husband had expressed no belief, but simply recounted what is practised in
the East, and she concluded with the remark, "Captain Burton is certainly not a spiritualist."
Some good-humoured comments by various speakers terminated the proceedings. It is quite certain,
however, that Burton was more of a spiritualist than Mrs. Burton would allow, and of Mrs. Burton
herself in this connection, we shall later have a curious story to tell. [317]

During the rest of her holiday Mrs. Burton's thoughts ran chiefly on philanthropic work, and
she arranged gatherings at country houses in support of the society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. These were well attended and some enthusiasm was shown, except when there happened
to be a meet of the fox hounds in the district, or when rabbit coursing was going on.

97. Still thinking of Midian. April-December 1879.

The Burtons remained in London until after the publication of Mrs. Burton's book "A.E.I.,"
[318] and then Burton set out alone on a tour through Germany. Mrs. Burton, who was to meet
him at Trieste, left London 27th April; and then followed a chapter of accidents. First she
fell with influenza, and next, at Paris, when descending the stairs, which had been waxed,
she "took one header from the top to the bottom," and so damaged herself that she had to be
removed in a coupe lit. [319] She reached Trieste after "an agonizing sixty hours" and was
seriously ill for several weeks. All the while, Burton, whose purse, like that of one of his
favourite poets, Catullus, was "full of cobwebs," had been turning his thoughts to Midian again.
He still asseverated that it was a land of gold, and he believed that if he could get to Egypt
the rest would be easy. Says Mrs. Burton, writing to Miss Stisted, 12th December 1879: "Darling
Dick started on Friday 5th, a week ago, in high spirits. My position is singular, no child,
no relative, and all new servants." She then speaks of her Christmas book, which had just gone
to the publishers. She says, "It is for boys from 12 to 16, culled from ten volumes: Dick's
three books on Sind, his Goa, Falconry, Vikram, Bayonet and Sword Exercise, and my A.E.I."
and she was in hopes it would revive her husband's earliest works, which by that time were
forgotten. The fate of this work was a melancholy one, for the publisher to whom the manuscript
was entrusted went bankrupt, and no more was every heard of it. [320] Burton's hope that he
would be able to lead another expedition to Midian was not realised. Ismail was no longer Khedive,
and Tewfik, his successor, who regarded the idea as chimerical, declined to be bound by any
promise of his father's. His Excellency Yacoub Artin Pasha [321] and others of Burton's Egyptian
friends expressed sympathy and tried to expedite matters, but nothing could be done. To make
matters worse, Burton when passing through Alexandria was attacked by thieves, who hit him
on the head from behind. He defended himself stoutly, and got away, covered however, with bruises
and blood.

Chapter XXI. 27th December 1879-August 1881, Camoens

Bibliography

60. Camoens, 6 vols. 1 and 2, the Lusiads. 1880. 3 and 4, Life of Camoens and Commentary. 1882.
5 and 6, The Lyrics. 1884. 61. The Kasidah. 1880. 62. Visit to Lissa and Pelagoza. 1880. 63.
A Glance at the Passion Play. 1881. 64. How to deal with the Slave Trade in Egypt. 1881. 65.
Thermae of Montfalcone. 1881.

98. The Lusiads.

Burton had brought with him to Egypt his translation of The Lusiads, which had been commenced
as early as 1847, and at which, as we have seen, he had, from that time onward, intermittently
laboured. At Cairo he gave his work the finishing touches, and on his return to Trieste in
May it was ready for the press. There have been many English translators of Camoens, from Fanshawe,
the first, to Burton and Aubertin; and Burton likens them to the Simoniacal Popes in Dante's
Malebolge-pit--each one struggling to trample down his elder brother. [322] Burton's work,
which appeared in 1882, was presently followed by two other volumes consisting of a Life of
Camoens and a Commentary on The Lusiads, but his version of The Lyrics did not appear till 1884.

Regarded as a faithful rendering, the book was a success, for Burton had drunk The Lusiads
till he was super-saturated with it. Alone among the translators, he had visited every spot
alluded to in the poem, and his geographical and other studies had enabled him to elucidate
many passages that had baffled his predecessors. Then, too, he had the assistance of Aubertin,
Da Cunha and other able Portuguese scholars and Camoens enthusiasts. Regarded, however, as
poetry, the book was a failure, and for the simple reason that Burton was not a poet. Like
his Kasidah, it contains noble lines, but on every page we are reminded of the translator's
defective ear, annoyed by the unnecessary use of obsolete words, and disappointed by his lack
of what Poe called "ethericity." The following stanza, which expresses ideas that Burton heartily
endorsed, may be regarded as a fair sample of the whole:

   "Elegant Phormion's philosophick store
      see how the practised Hannibal derided
      when lectured he with wealth of bellick lore
      and on big words and books himself he prided.
      Senhor! the soldier's discipline is more
      than men may learn by mother-fancy guided;
    Not musing, dreaming, reading what they write;
    'tis seeing, doing, fighting; teach to fight." [323]

The first six lines contain nothing remarkable, still, they are workmanlike and pleasant to
read; but the two concluding lines are atrocious, and almost every stanza has similar blemishes.
A little more labour, even without much poetic skill, could easily have produced a better result.
But Burton was a Hannibal, not a Phormion, and no man can be both. He is happiest, perhaps,
in the stanzas containing the legend of St. Thomas, [324] or Thome, as he calls him,

       "the Missioner sanctified
   Who thrust his finger in Lord Jesu's side."

According to Camoens, while Thorme was preaching to the potent Hindu city Meleapor, in Narsinga
land [325] a huge forest tree floated down the Ganges, but all the king's elephants and all
the king's men were incompetent to haul it ashore.

   "Now was that lumber of such vasty size,
     no jot it moves, however hard they bear;
     when lo! th' Apostle of Christ's verities
     wastes in the business less of toil and care:
     His trailing waistcord to the tree he ties,
     raises and sans an effort hales it where
    A sumptuous Temple he would rear sublime,
    a fit example for all future time."

This excites the jealousy and hatred of the Brahmins, for

   "There be no hatred fell and fere, and curst
    As by false virtue for true virtue nurst."

The chief Brahmin then kills his own son, and tries to saddle the crime on Thome, who promptly
restores the dead youth to life again and "names the father as the man who slew." Ultimately,
Thome, who is unable to circumvent the further machinations of his enemies, is pierced to the
heart by a spear; and the apostle in glory is thus apostrophised:

   "Wept Gange and Indus, true Thome! thy fate,
     wept thee whatever lands thy foot had trod;
     yet weep thee more the souls in blissful state
     thou led'st to don the robes of Holy Rood.
     But angels waiting at the Paradise-gate
     meet thee with smiling faces, hymning God.
    We pray thee, pray that still vouchsafe thy Lord
    unto thy Lusians His good aid afford."

In a stanza presented as a footnote and described as "not in Camoens," Burton gives vent to
his own disappointments, and expends a sigh for the fate of his old friend and enemy, John
Hanning Speke. As regards himself, had he not, despite his services to his country, been relegated
to a third-rate seaport, where his twenty-nine languages were quite useless, except for fulminating
against the government! The fate of poor Speke had been still more lamentable:

   "And see you twain from Britain's foggy shore
     set forth to span dark Africk's jungle-plain;
     thy furthest fount, O Nilus! they explore,
     and where Zaire springs to seek the Main,
     The Veil of Isis hides thy land no more,
     whose secrets open to the world are lain.
    They deem, vain fools! to win fair Honour's prize:
    This exiled lives, and that untimely dies."

Burton, however, still nursed the fallacious hope that his merits would in time be recognised,
that perhaps he would be re-instated in Damascus or appointed to Ispahan or Constantinople.

99. At Ober Ammergau, August 1880.

In August (1880) the Burtons paid a visit to Ober Ammergau, which was just then attracting
all eyes on account of its Passion Play. Burton's object in going was "the wish to compare,
haply to trace some affinity between, this survival of the Christian 'Mystery' and the living
scenes of El Islam at Mecca," while Mrs. Burton's object may be gauged by the following prayer
which she wrote previous to their departure from Trieste: "O Sweet Jesu... Grant that I, all
unworthy though I be, may so witness this holy memorial of thy sacrificial love, Thy glorious
victory over death and hell, that I may be drawn nearer to Thee and hold Thee in everlasting
remembrance. Let the representation of Thy bitter sufferings on the cross renew my love for
Thee, strengthen my faith, and ennoble my life, and not mine only, but all who witness it."
Then follows a prayer for the players.

Burton found no affinity between the scenes at Ober Ammergau and those at Mecca, and he was
glad to get away from "a pandemonium of noise and confusion," while Mrs. Burton, who was told
to mind her own business by a carter with whom she remonstrated for cruelly treating a horse,
discovered that even Ober Ammergau was not all holiness. Both Burton and his wife recorded
their impressions in print, but though his volume [326] appeared in 1881, hers [327] was not
published till 1900.

100. Mrs. Burton's Advice to Novelists. 4th September 1880.

The following letter from Mrs. Burton to Miss Stisted, who had just written a novel, A Fireside
King, [328] gives welcome glimpses of the Burtons and touches on matters that are interesting
in the light of subsequent events. "My dearest Georgie, On leaving you I came on to Trieste,
arriving 29th May, and found Dick just attacked by a virulent gout. We went up to the mountains
directly without waiting even to unpack my things or rest, and as thirty-one days did not relieve
him, I took him to Monfalcone for mud baths, where we passed three weeks, and that did him
good. We then returned home to change our baggage and start for Ober Ammergau, which I thought
glorious, so impressive, simple, natural. Dick rather criticises it. However, we are back....
I read your book through on the journey to England. Of course I recognised your father, Minnie,
[329] and many others, but you should never let your heroine die so miserably, because the
reader goes away with a void in his heart, and you must never put all your repugnances in the
first volume, for you choke off your reader.... You don't mind my telling the truth, do you,
because I hope you will write another, and if you like you may stand in the first class of
novelists and make money and do good too, but put your beasts a little further in towards the
end of the first volume. I read all the reviews that fell in my way, but though some were spiteful
that need not discourage... Believe me, dearest G., your affectionate Zookins."

Miss Stisted's novel was her first and last, but she did write another book some considerable
time later, which, however, would not have won Mrs. Burton's approval. [330]

101. The Kasidah, 1880.

This year, Burton, emulous of fame as an original poet, published The Kasidah of Haji Abdu
El-Yezdi, A Lay of the Higher Law, which treats of the great questions of Life, Death and Immortality,
and has certain resemblances to that brilliant poem which is the actual father of it, Edward
FitzGerald's rendering of The Rubaiyat of Oman Khayyam. Lady Burton tells us that The Kasidah
was written about 1853, or six years before the appearance of FitzGerald's poem. Nothing, however,
is more certain than that, with the exception of a few verses, it was written after FitzGerald's
poem. The veriest tyro in literature, by comparing the two productions, would easily understand
their relationship. [331] The facts are these. About 1853, Burton, in a time of dejection,
caused by the injustice done him in India, planned a poem of this nature, wrote a few stanzas,
and then put it by and forgot all about it. FitzGerald's version of Omar Khayyam appeared in
1859, and Burton no sooner read than he burned to rival it. So he drew from the pigeon-hole
what he called his Lay, furbished up the few old verses, made a number of new ones, reconstructed
the whole, and lo, The Kasidah! Burton calls it a translation of a poem by a certain Haji Abdu.
There may have been a Haji Abdu who supplied thoughts, and even verses, but the production
is really a collection of ideas gathered from all quarters. Confucius, Longfellow, Plato, the
FitzGeraldian Oman Khayyam, Aristotle, Pope, Das Kabir and the Pulambal are drawn upon; the
world is placed under tribute from Pekin to the Salt Lake City. A more careless "borrower"
to use Emerson's expression, never lifted poetry. Some of his lines are transferred bodily,
and without acknowledgment, from Hafiz; [332] and, no doubt, if anybody were to take the trouble
to investigate, it would be found that many other lines are not original. It is really not
very much to anyone's credit to play the John Ferriar to so careless a Sterne. He doesn't steal
the material for his brooms, he steals the brooms ready-made. Later, as we shall see, he "borrowed"
with a ruthlessness that was surpassed only by Alexandre Dumas. Let us say, then, that The
Kasidah is tesselated work done in Burton's usual way, and not very coherently, with a liberal
sprinkling of obsolete works. At first it positively swarmed with them, but subsequently, by
the advice of a friend, a considerable number such as "wox" and "pight" was removed. If the
marquetry of The Kasidah compares but feebly with the compendious splendours of FitzGerald's
quatrains; and if the poem [333] has undoubted wastes of sand, nevertheless, the diligent may
here and there pick up amber. But it is only fair to bear in mind that the Lay is less a poem
than an enchiridion, a sort of Emersonian guide to the conduct of life rather than an exquisitely-presented
summary of the thoughts of an Eastern pessimist. FitzGerald's poem is an unbroken lament. Burton,
a more robust soul than the Woodbridge eremite, also has his misgivings. He passes in review
the great religious teachers, and systems and comes to the conclusion that men make gods and
Gods after their own likeness and that conscience is a geographical accident; but if, like
FitzGerald, he is puzzled when he ponders the great questions of life and afterlife, he finds
comfort in the fact that probity and charity are their own reward, that we have no need to
be anxious about the future, seeing that, in the words of Pope, "He can't be wrong, whose life
is in the right." He insists that self-cultivation, with due regard for others, is the sole
and sufficient object of human life, and he regards the affections and the "divine gift of
Pity" as man's highest enjoyments. As in FitzGerald's poem there is talk of the False Dawn
or Wolf's Tail, "Thee and Me," Pot and Potter, and here and there are couplets which are simply
FitzGerald's quatrains paraphrased [334]--as, for example, the one in which Heaven and Hell
are declared to be mere tools of "the Wily Fetisheer." [335] Like Omar Khayyam, Haji Abdu loses
patience with the "dizzied faiths" and their disputatious exponents; like Omar Khayyam too,
Haji Abdu is not averse from Jamshid's bowl, but he is far less vinous than the old Persian.

Two of the couplets flash with auroral splendour, and of all the vast amount of metrical work
that Burton accomplished, these are the only lines that can be pronounced imperishable. Once
only--and only momentarily--did the seraph of the sanctuary touch his lips with the live coal.

   "Do what thy manhood bids thee do, from none but self expect
       applause;
    He noblest lives and noblest dies who makes and keeps his
       self-made laws."

and

   "All other life is living death, a world where none but
       phantoms dwell
    A breath, a wind, a sound, a voice, a tinkling of the
       camel-bell."

We are also bidden to be noble, genuine and charitable.

"To seek the true, to glad the heart, such is of life the Higher Law."

Neglecting the four really brilliant lines, the principal attraction of The Kasidah is its
redolence of the saffron, immeasurable desert. We snuff at every turn its invigorating air;
and the tinkle of the camel's bell is its sole and perpetual music.

At first Burton made some attempt to create the impression that there was actually a Haji Abdu,
and that the verses were merely a translation. Indeed, he quotes him, at the end of his Supplemental
Nights, vol. ii., and elsewhere, as an independent author. Later, however, the mask which deceived
nobody was removed. Not only was The Kasidah written in emulation of FitzGerald's Omar, but
Burton made no secret that such was the case. To further this end Mr. Schutz Wilson, who had
done so much for the Rubaiyat, was approached by one of Burton's friends; and the following
letter written to Burton after the interview will be read with some amusement. "Dear Richard,"
it runs, "'Wox' made me shudder! If you give more specimens do be good and be sparing of the
'pights,' 'ceres' and 'woxes.' I showed the Lay to Schutz Wilson. He seemed absorbed in the
idea of Omar, and said 'Oh! I am the cause of its going through five editions.' I told him
this was even more striking than Omar, but he didn't seem able to take in the new idea! When
you want people's minds they are always thinking of something else." [336] Although the critics
as a body fell foul of The Kasidah, still there were not wanting appreciators, and its four
great lines have often been quoted.

102. Lisa.

By this time Mrs. Burton had provided herself with another Chico. Chico the Third (or Chica
the Second) was a tall and lank, but well-built Italian girl, daughter of a baron. Lisa had
Khamoor's ungovernable temper, but to the Burtons she at first exhibited the faithfulness of
a dog. Her father lived formerly at Verona, but in the war of 1866, having sided with Austria,
[337] he fell upon evil days; and retired to Trieste on a trifling pension. Mrs. Burton and
Lisa had not been long acquainted before Lisa became a member of the Burton household as a
kind of lady's maid, although she retained her title of Baroness, and Mrs. Burton at once set
about Anglicising her new friend, though her attempt, as in Khamoor's case, was only partially
successful. For instance, Lisa, would never wear a hat, "for fear of losing caste." She was
willing, however, to hang out her stocking on Christmas eve; and on finding it full next morning
said, "Oh, I like this game. Shall we play it every night!" Just however, as a petted Khamoor
had made a spoilt Khamoor; so a petted Lisa very soon made a spoilt Lisa.

With Mrs. Burton, her Jane Digbys, her Chicos, and her servants, Burton rarely interfered,
and when he did interfere, it was only to make matters worse; for his judgment was weaker even
than hers. On one occasion, however, he took upon himself to dismiss the cook and to introduce
another of his own finding. On being requested to prepare the dinner the new acquisition set
about it by drinking two bottles of wine, knocking down the housemaid, and beating the kitchenmaid
with the saucepan. Burton, who flew to their rescue, thought he must be in Somali-land once more.

Chapter XXII.

Burton had for several years been acquainted with the African traveller V. Lovett Cameron,
[338] and in August 1881 they met accidentally at Venice. A geographical conference was being
held in the city and representatives from all nations were assembled; but, naturally, the first
geographer of the day, Captain Burton, was not invited either to speak or even to be present.
On the morning of the conference, Burton, Mrs. Burton and Cameron gave themselves the treat
of going over to the Lido for bathing and breakfast; and being in puckish mood, the two men,
notwithstanding the great crowd of pleasure seekers, took off their shoes and stockings, turned
up their trousers, and made sand castles. "Look, nurse," bawled Burton to his wife, "see what
Cammy and I have done!" "If you please, nursey," whined Cameron, "Dick's snatched away my spade."
At that moment Lord Aberdeen, President of the Royal Geographical Society, and a party of grave
antiquaries and geographers, mostly run to nose, spectacles, and forehead, arrived on the scene;
with the result of infinite laughter, in which Burton and Cameron joined heartily; and henceforward
Mrs. Burton answered to no name but "Nursey." Burton, however, was justly indignant on account
of his not having been invited to the conference, and his revenge took the shape of a pungent
squib which he wrote on his card and left in the Congress Room. Next day, while Burton and
Cameron were strolling in front of St. Mark's, a Portuguese gentleman came up and saluted them.
To Burton's delight it was his old friend Da Cunha, the Camoens enthusiast; and then ensued
a long argument, conducted in Portuguese, concerning Burton's rendering of one of Camoens'
sonnets, Burton in the end convincing his friend of its correctness. Having parted from Da
Cunha, they ran against an Egyptian officer who had just visited Mecca and brought back a series
of photographs. The conversation this time was conducted in Arabic, and Burton explained to
the Egyptian the meaning of much of the ritual of the pilgrimage. "As a cicerone," says Cameron,
"Burton was invaluable. His inexhaustible stock of historical and legendary lore furnished
him with something to relate about even the meanest and commonest buildings." [339] There were
trips about the green canals in a long black gondola on the day and night of the regatta, when
the Grand Canal and St. Mark's were illuminated, all of which Burton enjoyed thoroughly, for
round him had gathered the elite of Venice, and his brilliant personality, as usual, dazzled
and dominated all who listened to him.

104. John Payne, November 1881.

