He had not meant to, but he could not go back and put it on. It was another little falling
out that he could not help. The things he could not help were the most comfortable.

"Mother would have had a very hard time if she had lived," said Sylvie. "I am glad for her.
It was a great deal better. And it came so tenderly! I had dreaded sickness and pain for her."

"It has been all hard for you. I hope it will be easier now. I hope it will always be easier."

"I am going to live with Mrs. Kirkbright," said Sylvie.

"Tell me about my new aunt," said Rodney.

Sylvie was glad to go on about Desire, about the wedding, about Hill-hope, and the plans for
living there.

"I think it will be almost like heaven," she said. "It will be home and happiness; all that
people look forward to for themselves. And yet, right alongside, there will be the work and
the help. It will open right out into it, as heaven does into earth. Mr. Kirkbright is a grand
man."

"Yes. He's one of the ten-talent people. But I suppose we can all do something. It is good
to have some little one-horse teams for the light jobs."

"I never could be Desire," said Sylvie. "But I am glad, to work with her. I am glad to live
one of the little lives."

There would always be a boy and girl simpleness between these two, and in their taking of the
world together. And that is good for the world, as well. It cannot be all made of mountains.
If all were high and grand, it would be as if nothing were. Heaven itself is not built like that.

"There goes some of Uncle Christopher's stuff, I suppose," said Rodney, a while afterward,
as they came to the top of a long ascent. He pointed to a great loaded wain that stood with
its three powerful horses on the crest of a forward hill. It was piled high up with tiling
and drain-pipe, packed with straw. The long cylinders showed their round mouths behind, like
the mouths of cannon.

"A nice cargo for these hills, I should think."

"They have brakes on the wheels, of course," said Sylvie. "And the horses are strong. That
must be for the new houses. They will soon make all those things here. Mr. Kirkbright has large
contracts for brick, already. He has been sending down specimens. They say the clay is of remarkably
fine quality."

"We shall have to get by that thing, presently," said Rodney. "I hope the horse will take it well."

"Are you trying to frighten me?" asked Sylvie, smiling. "I'm used to these roads. I have spent
half a summer here, you know."

But Rodney knew that it was the "being used" that would be the question with the horse. He
doubted if the little country beast had ever seen drain-pipe before. He had once driven Red
Squirrel past a steam boiler that was being transported on a truck. He remembered the writhe
with which the animal had doubled himself, and the side spring he had made. It was growing
dusk, now, also. They were not more than a mile from Brickfield Basin, and the sun was dropping
behind the hills.

"I shall take you out, and lead him by," he said. "I've no wish to give you another spill.
We won't go on through life in that way."

It was quite as well that they had only another mile to go. Rodney was keeping his promise,
but the thread of it was wearing very thin.

They rode slowly up the opposite slope, then waited, in their turn, on the top, to give the
team time to reach the next level.

They heard it creak and grind as it wore heavily down, taking up the whole track with careful
zigzag tackings; they could see, as it turned, how the pole stood sharp up between the shoulders
of the straining wheel horses, as their haunches pressed out either way, and their backs hollowed,
and their noses came together, and the driver touched them dexterously right and left upon
their flanks to bring them in again.

"Uncle Kit has a good teamster there," said Rodney.

