That of Mr. Chauvelin has at the top a small engraving of three Fleurs de Lys between two oak
branches, surmounted by a crown: at the bottom is another small engraving, with his cypher
F. C. it was dated London, 17th July, 1792, 4th year of Liberty.

No passport of any kind is necessary to enter France. At Calais one was given to me by the
magistrates, mentioning my age, stature, complexion, &c. and this would have been a sufficient
permit for my going out of France by sea or by land, if the disturbances in Paris, of the 10th
of August, had not happened.

I embarked at Dover on the 25th July, at one in the afternoon, and landed at Calais after a
pleasant passage of three hours and a half.

I immediately procured a national cockade, which was a silk ribband, with blue, white, and
red stripes; changed twenty guineas for forty livres each, in paper, (the real value is not
more than twenty-five livres) hired a cabriolet, or two wheeled post-chaise of Dessin, (which
was to take me to Paris, and bring me back in a month) for three louis d'ors in money, bought
a post-book, drank a bottle of Burgundy, and set off directly for Marquise (about fifteen miles)
where I passed the night.

The next day, 26th, I proceeded only to Abbeville, and it was ten at night when I got there,
because a gentleman in the chaise with me, and another gentleman and his wife, who had not
been in France before, and who accompanied us all the way to Paris, wished to see Boulogne.
We accordingly walked round the ramparts, and then went on.

The 27th we remained a few hours at Amiens, and saw the cathedral and the engine which supplies
the city with water, called La Tour d'Eau. We slept at Breteuil which is a paltry town (Bourg.)

The 28th. We were five hours occupied in seeing Chantilly. This palace is the most magnificent
of any in Europe, not belonging to a sovereign. In the cabinet of natural history, which has
lately been very considerably augmented, by the addition of that of Mr. Valmont de Bomare (who
arranged the whole) I observed the foetus of a whale, about fourteen inches long, preserved
in spirits; and the skin of a wolf stuffed. I saw this identical wolf at Montargis, a palace
beyond Fontainebleau, in 1784, soon after it had been shot. The carp came, as usual, to be
fed by hand. Some of them are said to have been here above a century. As to the gardens, they
are well known; all that I shall say is, that they do not contain a single curious tree, shrub,
or flower. We hired a landau, at the inn, to drive us about these gardens, and in the evening
proceeded to St. Denis, which is only a single post from Paris, where we remained, as it would
not have been so convenient to seek for a lodging there at night.

The next day, Sunday 29th, early in the morning, we entered Paris, and put up at the Hôtel
d'Espagne, Rue du Colombier, and in the evening went to the opera of Corisandre.

EXPENCES.

THE whole expences of our journey from Calais to Paris was as follows. The distance is thirty-four
posts and a half, the last of which must be paid double.[1] The two chaises were each drawn
by two horses, at 30 sous per horse, and 20 sous to each postillion per post, is 35 and half
posts, at eight livres, is Livres 284.

[Note 1: A post is about two leagues, or between four and six miles, as the posthouses are
not exactly at the same distance from each other.]

Greasing the wheels and extra gratifications to drivers, about   32

The fees for seeing Chantilly, including the hire of a carriage,  24

Inns on the road, four days and four nights, about         200
                                                             ------
                                                      £. 540

This, at 40 livres per guinea, amounts to thirteen guineas and a half; to which must be added,
for the hire of the two chaises to Paris, three Louis in money, adequate to three pounds sterling,
which altogether does not amount to four guineas each person, travelling post above two hundred
miles, and faring sumptuously on the road, drinking Burgundy and Champagne, and being as well
received at the inns as if the expences had been quadrupled. One hot meal a day, at three livres
a head, one livre for each bed, and the wine paid for apart, was the customary allowance. After
this manner I have travelled several times all over France, to Bourdeaux, Toulouse, Montpelier,
Marseille, Toulon, Hieres, Avignon, Lyon, &c.

Had the exchange been at par, the expence would have been doubled, in English money; but even
then would have been very reasonable, compared to the cost of a similar journey in England.

At Paris I received 42 livres 15 sous for each guinea; soon after which I was paid forty-two
livres for every pound sterling which I drew on London: on my return to Calais I found the
exchange to be forty-four livres per guinea, and once it was as high as forty-nine. This, of
course, very much injures the trade between England and France; but, for the same reason, English
families residing in France at present, more than double their income, by drawing bills on
London for such income, and it will probably be many years before the exchange will be at par
again.

MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. CHESSMEN. TREE OF LIBERTY. CRUCIFIXES,VIRGINS. SAINTS. BISHOPS.
OLD WOMEN, &C.

THE whole way from Calais to Paris the land was in the highest state of cultivation.

The sandy soil near the gates of Calais abounded with the Chelidonium Glaucium, or common yellow
horned poppy.

The first vines on this road are about a mile on this side of Breteuil.

Between St. Just and Clermont is a magnificent château and garden belonging to the ci-devant
Duc de Fitzjames: this seat has never been described; it is not shewn to strangers at present,
as the proprietor is emigrated.

The country all around Chantilly, consists of cornfields; formerly it appeared barren, because
the immense quantity of game which infested and over-ran it devoured all the crops and ruined
the farmers, who were sent to the gallies if they shot a bird.

I passed this way in 1783 and 1784, and saw vast numbers of pheasants, partridges, and hares
cross the road, and feed by the side of it, as tame as poultry in a farm-yard; but at present
the game is all destroyed; neither are there any more wild boars in the forest, which is of
7600 acres. These animals still inhabit the forest of Fontainebleau. This forest (which covers
almost four times as much ground as that of Chantilly)[2] contains a greater number of trees,
of a more enormous size, than I have seen in any other part of Europe, growing amongst rocks
and stones equally remarkable for their dimensions. I know not of any parallel to the sublime-beautiful,
and to the wild and romantic grandeur of the scenery here displayed. The landscapes of Salvator
Rosa appear to have been taken from natural objects, similar to those which are here seen.
It is only forty miles from Paris.

[Note 2: It is about five square miles, or rather, eight miles in length from two to four miles
in breadth.]

In the treasury of the Abbey at St. Denis were formerly preserved the Chess-men of Charlemagne;
these I described in the first volume of Chess, published in 1787; they are now either stolen
or strayed, and will probably never more be heard of.

All the horses (many of which were stone-horses) we had occasion to make use of along this
road were very gentle, and so were the cattle which were feeding on the grass growing on the
borders of the cornfields, (without any inclosure) which they were prevented from entering
by a string tied to their horns, one end of which was sometimes held by a child of five or
six years old. The people here are very merciful and kind to their beasts. I have seen droves
of oxen walking leisurely through the green markets in the cities, smelling at the vegetables,
and driven to the slaughter-house by children. There are no instances here of mad oxen, mad
dogs, or run-away horses.

In every one of the towns between Calais and Paris a full-grown tree (generally a poplar) has
been planted in the market-place, with many of its boughs and leaves; these last being withered,
it makes but a dismal appearance; on the top of this tree or pole is a red woollen or cotton
night-cap, which is called the Cap of Liberty, with streamers about the pole, of red, blue
and white ribbands.

I saw several statues of saints, both within and without the churches (and in Paris likewise)
with similar caps, and several crucifixes with the national cockade of ribbands tied to the
left arm of the image on the cross, but not one with the cockade in its proper place; the reason
of which I know not.

I was both surprised and sorry to see the wooden images, many of them as large as the life,
on crosses, painted with the natural colours, to the amount of perhaps twenty between Calais
and Paris, still suffered to remain nuisances on the side of the road. The perpendicular of
each cross being seasoned, by having been exposed many years to the open air, might make a
couple of excellent pike staves;[3] but the remainder would, as far as I know, be of no other
use than for fuel.

[Note 3: This was written after I had become familiarized to pikes.]

Another absurdity which has not been attended to as yet is, that most of the almanacks, even
that which is prefixed to Mr. Rabaut's Account of the Revolution, contains against every day
in the year, the name of some saint or other, male or female; some of them martyrs, and others
not, others archangels, angels, arch-bishops, bishops, popes, and virgins, to the number of
twenty-four, and of these, four were martyrs into the bargain; and this at a time when churches
are selling by auction and pulling down, when the convents are turned into barracks, when there
is neither monk nor nun to be seen in the kingdom, nor yet any Abbe, and when no priest dares
appear in any sacerdotal garment, or even with any thing which might mark him as an ecclesiastic.
It must however be acknowledged, that the saints have lost all their credit in France, and
of course so have the Bienheureux, or Blessed. In order to arrive at saint-hood, the candidate
must first have died en odeur de Sainteté, which, were it not too ludicrous, might be translated
smelling of holiness; he was then created a Bienheureux, and after he had been dead a century,
the pope might canonize him if he pleased; after which he, the saint, might work miracles if
he could, or let it alone.

France formerly contained eighteen arch-bishopricks, and one hundred and thirteen bishopricks;
the Arch ones are all abolished, and likewise forty-seven of the others; there are, however,
plenty remaining, no less than seventy-three, which includes seven new ones, and one in Corsica.

The churches in Paris are not much frequented on the week days, at present; I found a few old
women on their knees in some of them, hearing mass; and, at the same time, at the other end
of one of these churches commissaries were sitting and entering the names of volunteers for
the army.

The iron rails in the churches which part the choir from the nave, and also those which encompass
chapels and tombs, are all ordered to be converted into heads for pikes.

On Sundays, before the 19th of August, the churches were still resorted to, but by no means
crowded; I know not whether this be the case now.

All the jours de fête, holidays, are very judiciously abolished, and likewise les jours gras,
et maigres, (Flesh and meagre days.)

All shops are allowed to be open, and every trade carried on on Sundays, notwithstanding which,
few are open excepting those where provisions are sold; the inhabitants choosing to have one
day's relaxation in seven, to take a little fresh air, and to appear well dressed.

WALL ROUND PARIS. NEW BRIDGE. FIELD OF THE FEDERATION. BASTILLE.

THERE is a Wall which encompasses Paris, of about twelve feet high and two feet thick, about
nine miles long on the North side, and five on the South side; this was built just before the
Revolution, and was intended to prevent goods from being smuggled into Paris. On the North
side are thirty-six barriers, and on the other side eighteen; of these fifty-four I saw only
ten. They were intended for the officers of the customs; at present they are used as guardrooms.
Most of them are magnificent buildings, of white stone, some like temples, others like chapels;
several of these are described in the new Paris Guides; but views of none of them have as yet
been engraven.[4]

[Note 4: The Rotunda D'Orleans, in this wall, at the back of the gardens of the ci-devant Duke
of that name is worthy of observation.]

A bridge of white stone was just finished and opened for the passage of carriages; it was begun
in 1787, it is of five arches, the centre arch is ninety-six feet wide, the two collateral
ones eighty-seven feet each, and other two seventy-eight, each of these arches forms part of
a circle, whose centre is considerably under the level of the water; it is thrown over the
river from the Place de Louis XV. to the Palais Bourbon.

The Champ de la Federation, formerly Champ de Mars, is a field which served for the exercises
of the pupils of the Royal Military School; it is a regular parallelogram of nine hundred yards
long, and three hundred yards broad, exclusive of the ditches by which it is bounded, and of
the quadruple rows of trees on each side; but if these are included the breadth is doubled.
At one extremity is the magnificent building above-mentioned,[5] and the river runs at the
foot of the others. In this field is formed the largest Circus in the world, being eight hundred
yards long and four hundred broad; it is bordered by a slope of forty yards broad, and of which
the highest part is ten feet above the level ground; the lower part is cut into thirty rows,
gradually elevated above each other, and on these rows or ridges a hundred and sixty thousand
persons may fit commodiously; the upper part may contain about a hundred and fifty thousand
persons standing, of which every one may see equally well what is doing in the Circus. The
National confederation was first held here, 14th July, 1790, and at that time a wooden bridge
was thrown on boats over the river for convenience.

[Note 5: In 1788 the school was suppressed, the scholars were placed in the army, or in country
colleges, and the building is intended, when the necessary alterations are completed, to be
one of the four hospitals which are to replace that of the Hôtel-Dieu. This hospital is in
such a bad situation, being in the midst of Paris, that a quarter of the patients die. It contains
only two thousand beds; each of the four new hospitals is to contain twelve hundred beds.]

Of the Bastille nothing remains but the foundations; it was demolished and levelled with the
ground in about eleven months; the expences at the end of the first three months amounted to
about twenty thousand pounds sterling. The materials were sold for half that sum, and the nation
paid the remainder. And on the 14th of July, 1790, the anniversary of the day of its having
been taken, a long mast was erected in the middle of the place where it stood, crowned with
flowers and ribbands, and bearing this simple and expressive inscription; Ici on Danse. Here
is dancing.

COINS AND TOKENS.

IN the Hôtel de la Monnoye (the Mint) I procured some new coins. The silver crown piece of
six livres has on one side the king's head in profile, round which is Louis XVI. Roi des François,
1792; over this date is a small lion passant, being a Mint mark. The reverse, is a human figure
with an enormous pair of wings,[6] holding a book in its left hand, which book rests on an
altar, and with its other is represented as if writing in it; the word Constitution is already
seen there. The figure is naked, except a slight drapery on the left arm; behind the figure
is a bundle of staves, like the Roman Fasces, surmounted by the cap of liberty, and behind
the altar is a cock standing on one leg; the inscription is Regne de la Loi. L'An 4 de la Liberté.
Besides this, there are two other Mint marks, one a small lyre, and the other the letter A;
at the foot of the altar is Dupre, the name of the person who engraved the die; and on the
edge is La Nation, La Loi, et le Roi, in Relievo.

[Note 6: There is to be a new coinage without the king's profile, and it is to be hoped these
wings, or rather the whole figure, will be left out.]

There are no new half crowns. The dies of the new thirty and fifteen sol pieces are just like
that of the crown, except that their value is stamped on them 30 Sols, 15 Sols, and that there
is no inscription on the edge.

There are two other coins, made of a sort of bell-metal; one of two Sols, with the king's profile;
inscription and date like those on the silver coin, and on the reverse the Fasces and cap,
between two oak branches, and the inscription, La Nation, Le Loi, Le Roi. L'an 4 de la Liberté.
2 S. The other of half this size, and with the same impressions, except that its value is specified
thus, 12 D. or Deniers, equal to one Sol.

I have not seen any new Louis. No paper money or assignats is known in the Mint; I bought some
coins here, and paid for them in guineas, which are currant for twenty-five livres. There are
twelve or fourteen mills, which were all at work in coining crown pieces, and likewise several
hammering machines, one of which was coining 2 Sols pieces.

Besides the national coins, several tradesmen have been permitted to fabricate silver and copper
medals or tokens, for public convenience, the most beautiful of which are those of M. Monneron.
The largest is of almost pure copper, exactly of the size and thickness of the crown piece;
in an oval is represented a female figure with a helmet on, sitting on an elevated place, on
which is Dupre f. (or fecit) holding a book, inscribed Constitution des François; at her side
is a shield with the arms of France, and at her feet an altar, on one side of which is the
profile of the king; several soldiers are represented extending their right arms, as if taking
the oath; at top is Pacte Federatif; at bottom 14 Juillet, 1790; round the oval vivre libres
ou mourir, which is repeated in one of the banners carried by a soldier. On the reverse, in
a circle, is Medaille de confiance de cinq-sols remboursable en assignats de 50L et au dessus.
L'An IV. de la Liberté; round this is Monneron Freres Negocians à Paris, 1792; and on the edge
is cut Departemens de Paris, Rhone et Loire. Du Gard.

I have another of these pieces, not quite so large nor so well executed; one of the sides is
similar to that already described; on the other is Medaille qui se vend 5 Sols à Paris chez
Monneron patenté. L'An IV. de la Liberté. Round this is, Revolution Française, 1792; and on
the edge, Bon pour les 83 Departemens. I am told this was made at Birmingham.

The other token of the same merchant is rather larger and thicker than our halfpenny. On one
side is a woman sitting, with a staff in her right hand with the cap of liberty; her left arm
leans on a square tablet, on which are the words, Droits de l'Homme. Artic. V.[7] the sun shines
just over her head, and behind her is a cock perched on half a fluted column; round the figure,
Liberté sous la Loi, and underneath, L'An III. de la Liberté. On the reverse, Medaille de confiance
de deux sols à echanger contre des assignats de 50L et au dessus. 1791. Round this the merchant's
name, as in the first; and on the edge, Bon pour Bord. Marseil. Lyon. Rouen. Nant. et Strasb.

[Note 7: This article is, "The law has the right of prohibiting only those actions which are
hurtful to society."]

I have seen a silver token almost as big as a shilling. On one side is represented a woman
sitting, leaning with her left arm on a large open book, at her right is a cock perched on
half a fluted column; and the inscription round these figures is, Le Fevre, Le Sage et Compie.
ngt. à Paris. On the reverse is B.P. (bon pour) 20 Sols à echanger en assignats de 50L and
round this, et au dessus l'an 4 me de la Liberté, 1792.[8]

[Note 8: This and the former echanger, &c. and remboursable, &c. appear to be superfluous.]

In this Hôtel is the cabinet of the royal school of mineralogy, which Mr. Le Sage has been
four and twenty years in forming and analyzing; it is contained in a magnificent building,
with a dome and gallery almost entirely of marble.

THEATRES.

AT this time there were ten regular theatres open every evening. The first and most ancient
of which is the Opera, or Royal Academy of Music. The old house which was in the Palais Royal,
was burnt in 1781, and the present house, near St. Martin's Gate, was built in seventy-five
days. The number of performers, vocal and instrumental, dancers, &c. employed in this theatre
is about four hundred and thirty. The price of admission to the first boxes is seven livres
ten sous, about six shillings and eight pence, (or three shillings and four pence as the exchange
then was.)

2. The French playhouse is at present called Theatre de la Nation. In the vestibule or porch
is a marble statue of Voltaire, sitting in an arm chair; it is near the Luxembourg.

3. The Italian theatre behind the Boulevart Richelieu. Notwithstanding the name, nothing but
French pieces, and French music, are performed here.

4. Theatre de Monsieur. Rue Feydeau. Comedies and operas are performed here, three times a
week in the Italian, and the other days in the French language; for which purpose two sets
of players are engaged at this house.

5. Theatre Français. Rue de Richelieu. At these four theatres the price of admission into the
boxes was a crown.

6. Theatre de la Rue de Louvois.

7. Theatre Français. Rue de Bondy.

8. Theatre de la Demoiselle Montansier, au Palais Royal. The box price of these three last
was half a crown.

9. Theatre du Marais, quartier St. Antoine.

10. Theatre de Moliere. Rue St. Martin.

To these must be added about five and twenty more; the best of which is the Theatre de l'ambigu
comique, on the North Boulevarts;[9] the box price was half a crown. The others were rope dancers,
and such kind of spectacles as Sadler's Wells, &c. and the prices were from two shillings down
to sixpence. The French themselves, laughing at the great increase of their theatres, said,
"We shall shortly have a public spectacle per street, an actor per house, a musician per cellar,
and an author per garret."

[Note 9: These Boulevarts were made in 1536, and planted with four rows of trees in 1668; these
beautiful walks are too well known to be described here; they are 2400 Toises (4800 yards,
or almost three miles) long. The South Boulevarts are planted in the same manner, were finished
in 1761, and are 3683 Toises, or fathom (above four miles) in length.]

PANTHEON. JACOBINS. QUAI VOLTAIRE. RUE ROUSSEAU. COCKADES.

THE new church of Sainte Genevieve was begun in 1757; but the building was discontinued during
the last war; in 1784 it was resumed, and is at present almost finished. The whole length of
the front is thus inscribed in very large gilt capitals: Aux grands hommes: la Patrie reconnoissante.
To great men: their grateful country. And over the entrance: Pantheon Français. L'An III de
la Liberté.

As to the size of Paris, I saw two very large plans of that city and of London, on the same
scale, on which it was said, that Paris covered 5,280,000 square Toises, and London only 3,900,000.
A Toise is two yards; and from the plan it appeared to be near the truth.

The new buildings which surround the garden of the Palais Royal form a parallelogram, that
for beauty is not to be matched in Europe. They consist of shops, coffee-houses, music rooms,
four of which are in cellars, taverns, gaming-houses, &c. and the whole square is almost always
full of people. The square is 234 yards in length, and 100 in breadth; the portico which surround
it consists of 180 arches.

The celebrated Jacobins are a club, consisting at present of about 1300 members, and so called,
because the place of meeting is in the hall which was formerly the library of the convent of
that name, in the Rue St. Honoré, about 300 yards distant from the National Assembly. The proper
name of the club is, Society of the Friends of the Constitution. There are three or four other
societies of less note.

The Quai, which was formerly called des Theatins is at present named Quai Voltaire, in honor
of that philosopher, who died there in the house of the Marquis de Villette, in 1778.

The street which was formerly called Platriere, and in which the general post-office is situated,
is called Rue Jean Jaques Rousseau, in honour of this writer, who resided some time in this
street. I found him here in 1776, and he copied some music for me; he had no other books at
that time than an English Robinson Crusoe and an Italian Tasso's Jerusalem. He died 1st July,
1778, very soon after Voltaire, at the country seat of le Marquis de Girardin about ten leagues
from Paris; and is buried there, in a small island.

And the street which was formerly called Chaussée d'Antin is now named Rue de Mirabeau, in
honour of the late patriot of that name.

The church des Innocens was pulled down in 1786, and the vast cimetiére (burying ground) was
filled up. Every night, during several months, carts were employed in carrying the bones found
there, to other grounds out of Paris; it is now a market for vegetables. Very near this place
was a fountain, which is mentioned in letters patent so long ago as 1273. It was rebuilt with
extraordinary magnificence in 1550, repaired in 1708, and at last, in 1788, carefully removed
to the center of the market, where it now stands.

The new Quai de Gesvres was constructed in 1787, and all the shops which formed a long narrow
alley for foot passengers only, were destroyed.

At this time no person was permitted to walk in any other part of the Tuileries gardens than
in the terrace of the Feuillans, which is parallel to the Rue St. Honoré, and under the windows
of the National Assembly; the only fence to the other part of the garden was a blue ribband
extended between two chairs.

Hitherto cockades of silk had been worn, the aristocrats wore such as were of a paler blue
and red, than those worn by the democrats, and the former were even distinguished by their
carriages, on which a cloud was painted upon the arms, which entirely obliterated them, (of
these I saw above thirty in the evening promenade, in the Bois de Boulogne:) but on the 30th
of July, every person was compelled by the people to wear a linen cockade, without any distinction
in the red and blue colours.

EXECUTION OF TWO CRIMINALS, WITH A BEHEADING MACHINE.

ON the 4th of August a criminal was beheaded, in the Place de Grêve. I did not see the execution,
because, as the hour is never specified, I might have waited many hours in a crowd, from which
there is no extricating one's self. I was there immediately after, and saw the machine, which
was just going to be taken away. I went into a coffee-house and made a drawing, which is here
engraven. It is called la Guillotine, from the name of the person who first brought it into
use in Paris: that at Lisle is called le Louison, for a similar reason. In English it is termed
a maiden.[10]

[Note 10: Mr. Pennant, in the second volume of his Tour in Scotland, has given a long account
of such a machine, from which the following particulars are taken. "It was confined to the
limits of the forest of Hardwick, or the eighteen towns and hamlets within its precincts. The
execution was generally at Halifax; Twenty five criminals suffered during the reign of Queen
Elizabeth; the records before that time were lost. Twelve more were executed between 1623 and
1650, after which it is supposed the privilege was no more exerted.----This machine is now
destroyed, but there is one of the same kind, in a room under the Parliament house, at Edinburgh,
where it was introduced by the Regent Morton, who took a model of it as he passed through Halifax,
and at length suffered by it himself. It is in form of a painters easel, and about ten feet
high: at four feet from the bottom is a cross-bar, on which the felon laid his head, which
was kept down by another placed above. In the inner edges of the frame are grooves; in these
is placed a sharp axe, with a vast weight of lead, supported at the summit by a peg; to that
peg is fastened a cord, which the executioner cutting, the axe falls, and beheads the criminal.
If he was condemned for stealing a horse or a cow, the string was tied to the beast, which
pulled out the peg and became the executioner."]

I have seen the following seven engravings of such an instrument. The most ancient is engraven
on wood, merely outlines, and very badly drawn; it is in Petrus de Natalibus Catalogus Sanctorum,
1510.

There was a German translation of some of Petrarch's Works, published in 1520; this contains
an engraving in wood, representing an execution, with a great number of figures, correctly drawn.

Aldegrever, in 1553, published another print on this subject.

The fourth is in Achillis Bocchii Quæstiones Symbolicæ, 1550.

There is one in Cats's Dutch Emblems, 1650.

And the two last are in Golfrieds's Historical Chronicles, in German, folio, 1674. These five
last are engraven on copper.

In all these representations the axe is either straight or semicircular, but always horizontal.
The sloping position of the French axe appears to be the best calculated for celerity.

Machines of this kind are at present made use of for executions throughout all France, and
criminals are put to death in no other manner.

The following is the account of an execution, which I had from an eye-witness.

The crowd began to assemble at ten in the morning, and waited, exposed to the intense heat
of the sun in the middle of July, till four in the afternoon, when the criminals, a Marquis
and a Priest, were brought, in two coaches; they were condemned for having forged assignats.

The Marquis ascended the scaffold first; he was as pale as if he had already been dead, and
he endeavoured to hide his face, by pulling his hair over it; there were two executioners,
dressed in black, on the scaffold, one of which immediately tied a plank of about 18 inches
broad, and an inch thick, to the body of the Marquis, as he stood upright, fastening it about
the arms, the belly, and the legs; this plank was about four feet long, and came almost up
to his chin; a priest who attended, then applied a crucifix to his mouth, and the two executioners
directly laid him on his belly on the bench, lifted up the upper part of the board which was
to receive his neck, adjusted his head properly, then shut the board and pulled the string
which is fastened to the peg at the top of the machine, which lifted up a latch, and down came
the axe; the head was off in a moment, and fell into a basket which was ready to receive it,
the executioner took it out and held it up by the hair to show the populace, and then put it
into another basket along with the body: very little blood had issued as yet.

The Priest was now taken out of the coach, from which he might have seen his companion suffer;
the bloody axe was hoisted up and he underwent the same operation exactly. Each of these executions
lasted about a minute in all, from the moment of the criminal's ascending the scaffold to that
of the body's being taken away. It was now seen that the body of the Marquis made such a violent
expiration that the belly raised the lid of the basket it was in, and the blood rushed out
of the great arteries in torrents.

The windows of the Place de Grêve were, as usual on such occasions, filled with ladies.[11]
Many persons were performing on violins, and trumpets, in order to pass the time away, and
to relieve the tediousness of expectation.

[Note 11: Mrs. Robinson tells me, that when she was at Paris, a few years ago, her valet de
place, came early one morning, informing her there would be a grand spectacle, and wanted to
know if he should hire a place for her. This superb spectacle was no other than the execution
of two murderers, who were to be broken alive on the wheel, in the Place de Grêve, on that
day. She however says, that she declined going.]

I have on several other days seen felons sitting on stools on this scaffold, with their hands
tied, and their arms and bodies fastened to a stake by a girth, bareheaded, with an inscription
over their heads, specifying their crimes and punishment; they are generally thus exposed during
five or fix hours, and then sent to prison, or to the gallies according to the sentence.

VERSAILLES. BOTANY. SOUNDING MERIDIANS.

I went once to Versailles; there is hardly any thing in the palace but the bare walls, a very
few of the looking-glasses, tapestry, and large pictures remaining, as it has now been near
two years uninhabited. I crossed the great canal on foot; there was not a drop of water in it.

In the Menagerie I saw the Rhinoceros, which has been 23 years there; there is likewise a lion,
with a little dog in the same den, as his companion, and a zebra.

The collection of orange trees cannot be matched in any country where these trees do not grow
naturally; the number is about six hundred, the largest trunk is about fifteen inches in diameter,
and the age of the most ancient of these trees exceeds three centuries.

The Jardin Potager, or kitchen garden, is of fifty acres, divided into about five or six and
twenty small gardens, of one, two, or three acres, walled round, both for shelter to the plants,
and for training fruit trees against. One of these gardens, of two acres, was entirely allotted
to the culture of melons, and these were all of the warty rock cantalupe kind, and were growing
under hand-glasses, in the manner of our late cucumbers for pickling.

The season had been so unfavourable for wall-fruit, that (as the gardener told me) all these
gardens had yielded less than a dozen peaches and nectarines.

The fruit was sent regularly to the Royal Family in Paris.

There is a botanical garden at the Petit Trianon in the park of Versailles, but the person
who shews it was out of the way, so that I did not see it.

I passed several mornings in the Botanical National Garden, (ci-devant Jardin du Roi.) That
part of the garden which contains the botanical collection is separated from the other part,
which is open to the public at large, by iron palisades. The names of the plants are painted
on square plates of tin, stuck in the ground on the side of each plant. I saw a Strelitzia,
which was there called Ravenala, (probably from some modern botanist's name) Mr. Thouin, who
superintends this garden, said to me, "We will not have any aristocratic plants, neither will
we call the new Planet by any other name than that of its discoverer, Herschel." I neglected
to ask him why the plant might not retain its original and proper name of Heliconia Bihai?

I here found the Anastatica Hierochuntica or Rose of Jericho, which I sought for in vain for
several years, and advertised for in the Gentleman's Magazine, for January 1791, and in the
newspapers. Many descriptions and figures of this plant are to be found in old books, and the
dried plants are frequently to be met with. Old Gerard very justly says, "The coiner spoiled
the name in the mint, for of all plants that have been written of, there is not any more unlike
unto the rose." The annexed figure represents a single plant; it had been transplanted into
a deep pot, which had been filled with earth, so as to make it appear like two plants. The
stalks are shrubby, the leaves are fleshy, and of a glaucous or sea-green colour. The corolla
consists of four very small white petals. Its scientific description may be found in Linnæus[12].
One of the silicles is drawn magnified.

[Note 12: Genera plantarum, 798.]

Mr. Thouin pointed out to me a new and very beautiful species of Zinnia, of which the flower
is twice the size of that of the common sort, and of a deep purple colour: a new verbascum,
from the Levant; it was about four feet high, the leaves were almost as woolly as those of
the Stachys lanata, and terminated in a point like a spur; it had not yet flowered. And a new
solanum, with spines the colour of gold.

He recommended the flower of the spilanthus brasiliana, which our nurserymen call Verbesina
acmella as an excellent dentifrice.

I also found here the amethystea, coerulea: this annual has been lost in England above twenty
years.[13]

[Note 13: The seeds which are sold in the London shops, for those of this plant, are those
of the hyssopus bracteatis.]

The datura fastuosa, the French call Trompette du jugement à trois fleurs l'une dans l'autre;
I have myself raised these with triple flowers, both purple and white, though some of our nurserymen
pretended the flowers were never more than double. The anthemis arabica, a very singular and
pretty annual. A zinnia hybrida, which last has not yet been cultivated in England. Twenty-two
sorts of medicago polymorpha, (snails and hedgehogs) of these I had seen only four in England.

Here was a small single moss-rose plant, in a pot, which is the only one I ever saw in France.
The air is too hot for those roses, and for the same reason none of the American plants, such
as the magnolia (tulip tree) kalmia, &c. thrive in France, though kept in pots in the shade
and well watered; the heat of the atmosphere dries the trunk of these trees. But there are
many other plants, to the growth of which the climate is much more favourable than it is in
England. In the open part of this garden are a great number of bignonia-catalpa trees, which
were then in flower, resembling horse-chesnut flowers at a distance, but much larger and more
beautiful; and many nerium oleander trees, in wooden chests; several of these trees are about
eight feet high and the trunk a foot in diameter; they were then full of flowers of all the
sorts, single and double, red and white; these are placed in the green-house in the winter.

