    If you're troubled with taxes,
    You cross the Araxes,
  Or fly to the plains of Hairoun;
    In the height of the summer,
    Cool as a cucumber,
  You sit in your air-balloon.

    The ladies, poor souls!
    Once sent sighs to the poles;
  We may now send the sighers as soon:
    Painted canvass and gas
    Whisk away with the lass,
  In the car of the air-balloon.

    Our girls of fifteen
    Will disdain Gretna Green,
  The old coupler must soon cobble shoon;
    With a wink to the captain,
    The beauties are wrapt in
  The car of the air-balloon.

    Old fathers and mothers,
    Grim uncles and brothers,
  May hunt them from Janu'ry to June;
    They are oft to the stars,
    And in Venus or Mars
  You may spy out their air-balloon

    Your makers of rhyme
    May at last grow sublime,
  Inspired by a touch at the moon;
    And lawyers may rise
    For once to the skies,
  In the car of the air-balloon.

    Your ministers, soaring,
    May shun all the boring
  Of country and city baboon--
    Or, like ministers' spouses,
    Look down on both Houses--
  From the car of the air-balloon.

    The sweet six months' widow
    Her weeds will abide, O,
  No longer, nor cry "'Tis too soon!"
    But range the skies over,
    In search of a lover,
  In the car of the air balloon.

    If you wish for a singe-a
    In Afric or India,
  Or long for an Esquimaux' tune,
    Or wish to go snacks
    With the king of the blacks,--
  Why,--call for your air-balloon.

    If, on Teneriffe's Peak,
    You'd wish for a steak,
  Or dip in Vesuvius your spoon,
    Or slip all the dog-days,
    The rain-days, and fog-days,--
  Go, call for your air-balloon.

    Your doctors of physic
    May banish the phthisic.
  Your cook give you ice-creams in June--
    If a dun's in the wind,
    You may leave him behind,
  And be off in your air-balloon.

    On the top of the Andes,
    Who's tortur'd with dandies?
  On Potosi, who meets a buffoon?
    But, for fear I'd get prosy,
    I'll stop at Potosi,--
  So, huzza for the air-balloon!

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALVISE SANUTO.

A Venetian Story[7]

    [7] The nobility of Venice were subject to the most rigorous
        surveillance, and dearly paid, occasionally, for the small
        degree of power conceded by the ducal house. The jealousy of
        the government with regard to these men was carried to excess.
        I may mention three regulations among the many that related to
        them, as illustrative of the galling yoke that pressed on them,
        amid all their pride and splendour. The first forbade them to
        leave the dominions of the state without the special permission
        of the council of ten; and this was granted with difficulty.
        The second prohibited them from possessing foods and chattels
        out of the state. This was with a view of preventing the danger
        that might arise from attempts to betray the republic under an
        idea of finding an asylum elsewhere. The third and most severe
        decree forbade communication with foreign ambassadors, under
        pain of death! The terror inspired by this was such, that not
        only the ministers of the court, but their secretaries and
        domestics, fled from the ambassadors as if they were infected
        with the plague. This decree had numerous results, and among
        others, one that was attended with truly tragical circumstances.

Alvise Sanuto was a young man of whom his country entertained the proudest hopes. His courage
had been gloriously tried in the battle of Lepanto, in which he had performed prodigies of
valour. His prudence and foresight had been often the subject of admiration in the great council
of the state. The old man, his father, esteemed him as the ornament and grace of his family:
Venice pointed to him as one of her best citizens. Alvise was destined to fall by an infamous
death.

At that period both public and private manners were exceedingly severe. The ladies, who gave
law to them, only issued from their homes to go to church, wrapped up in a veil which hid their
face and figure. The balconies of the palaces still present signs of this ancient severity,
the parapets being purposely made so high and large, as to render it difficult to see from
them. Alvise had a heart of the most passionate and fiery nature; he felt the imperious sway
of love, but as yet had met with no lady on whom he could bestow his affections. The arrival
of the French ambassador at Venice, in great pomp, excited public curiosity. The manners of
the strangers bore an aspect of perfect novelty to the inhabitants of the republic, as the
ladies who accompanied Amalia, the ambassador's daughter, displayed a fire and vivacity, which
to many seemed scandalous as well as astonishing. Amalia was in her seventeenth year, and to
cultivated and sprightly powers of mind, added those French graces, which, if they do not constitute
beauty, are still more effectual than beauty itself in seducing the beholder. Alvise saw her
when she was presented to the Doge, and regarded her as a being more than human. He gazed on
her as if beside himself; and what female could have beheld him without admiration? Amalia
read in the noble countenance of Alvise what he felt at that moment; she was affected, and,
for the first time, her heart palpitated within her bosom.

Alvise from that day was another being. He knew his unhappy state, and that his misfortunes
could end but with his life, since the severe and unyielding laws of his country rendered all
hope chimerical of ever being united with the stranger lady. His ardent fancy suggested to
attempt any means of again seeing her who was dearer to him than life. His abode was divided
from that of the ambassador by a narrow canal. Having procured the assistance of a French domestic,
he passed over to the palace, and secretly entered the chamber of Amalia.

It was midnight; and the young lady, her own thoughts perhaps disturbed by love, had not yet
laid down, but was seeking from prayer consolation and rest. She knelt before the image of
the virgin, her hands clasped in the attitude of devotion; and Alvise, beholding her angelic
countenance lit up by the uncertain light of the lamp, could not restrain an exclamation of
surprise, which roused the maiden from her pious reverie. Struck with the sight of him, she
at first fancied, according to the superstitious notions of the times, that he was a spirit
sent by her evil genius to tempt her, and uttered some words of holy scripture by way of exorcism;
when Alvise, advancing, threw himself at her feet, and before Amalia could speak, disclosed
to her, in the most passionate terms, his love, the inconsiderate step he had taken, and the
certain death that awaited him should he be discovered.

Terror, rather than indignation, filled the breast of Amalia. "Oh, heavens!" she exclaimed,
"what madness could prompt you thus to expose your own life and my reputation? Haste, fly from
this spot, which you have profaned; and know, that if my heart recoils at your death (and here
she gave a deep sigh,) yet at my cry those would appear who would not suffer your insult to
pass unpunished," so saying, she pointed imperiously to the door.

Alvise listened to her as if he had been struck down by lightning. "Then let me die!" he exclaimed,
"for without you life is odious to me. You are just taking the first steps in this vale of
tears; one day, however, your heart also will know the emotions of love, and then, then think
of the unhappy Alvise; how great must have been his pangs, and how ardent his desire to terminate
them!"

He now made an effort to go away; but Amalia held him, while she said, "Alas! I seek not thy
death: live, but forget me from this fatal moment." "To forget thee is impossible; to love
thee is death: thy compassion would sweeten the last moments of my existence!" "Alvise!" exclaimed
Amalia, weeping, "live, if only for my sake!" "Do you comprehend the force of these words?"

She trembled at the question; but the idea of her lover dying in despair overcame all her scruples.
"Yes, live for my sake," she repeated in an under tone.

Unhappy beings! they were intoxicated with love, while the abyss was yawning beneath their
feet. A spy of the state inquisition, who was going his rounds, saw Alvise enter the palace,
and recognised him. Denounced before the dreadful tribunal, he was dragged thither that very
morning. Convicted of entering the abode of the French ambassador, he was desired to explain
his motives tor so doing, but remained obstinately silent. The members of the inquisition were
confounded, accustomed as they were to see every thing yield before them, and reminded him
that death would be the inevitable result of his silence. "Death," he replied, "had no terrors
for me when I fought at Lepanto for the glory of my country and the salvation of Italy; on
which day I proved, that under no circumstances could I ever become a traitor. I call heaven
to witness that I am not one. But something dearer to me than life or fame now imposes silence
on me."

He was beheaded, and his body exposed between the two columns of the palace, with this inscription:
"For offences against the statute." The populace were speechless at the sight, while his companions
in arms, his relations and friends, abandoned themselves to despair. Venice presented one universal
scene of mourning.

On the evening of the fatal day, Amalia stood upon the terrace of her palace, overlooking the
grand canal. She contemplated with pleasurable melancholy the calm and even course of the moon,
whose modest light shone in the cloudless sky. Her thoughts were of Alvise. To divert them,
she turned to gaze on a long procession of illuminated gondolas, from which she heard a strain
of plaintive music, as if of prayers for the dead, A dreadful presentiment seized her heart;
she inquired the purpose of the procession, and heard, with unspeakable terror, that it was
the solemnization of the funeral rites of a Venetian nobleman, who had been beheaded for high
treason. "His name?" cried the breathless girl, in almost unintelligible accents: "Alvise Sanuto."

She fell, as if shot; and striking her head in the fall upon a projecting part of the terrace,
was mortally wounded, and expired.--Lettere su Venezia--Translated in the Oxford Literary Gaz.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEPENDENCE

Is the word, of all others, that Irish--men, women, and children--least understand; and the
calmness, or rather indifference, with which they submit to dependence, bitter and miserable
as it is, must be a source of deep regret to all "who love the land," or feel anxious to uphold
the dignity of human kind. Let us select a few cases from our Irish village--such as are abundant
in every neighbourhood. Let us speak to him. "She's in all the woe o' the world, Ma'am, dear.
I passed it to-day, and it looked so cheerful; and when you get there, you must take Ellen's
advice, and depend solely on yourself." "It was a great pity, Shane, that you didn't go yourself
to Mr. Clurn." "That's a true word for ye, Ma'am, dear; but it's hard if a poor man can't have
a frind to DEPIND on."--Sketches of Irish Character, by Mrs. S.C. Hall.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."

SHAKSPEARE

       *       *       *       *       *

POTATOES.

