THE CONQUEST OF CANADA.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF "HOCHELAGA."

IN TWO VOLUMES.

VOL. 1.

INTRODUCTION.

England and France started in a fair race for the magnificent prize of supremacy in America.
The advantages and difficulties of each were much alike, but the systems by which they improved
those advantages and met those difficulties were essentially different. New France was colonized
by a government, New England by a people. In Canada the men of intellect, influence, and wealth
were only the agents of the mother country; they fulfilled, it is true, their colonial duties
with zeal and ability, but they ever looked to France for honor and approbation, and longed
for a return to her shores as their best reward. They were in the colony, but not of it. They
strove vigorously to repel invasion, to improve agriculture, and to encourage commerce, for
the sake of France, but not for Canada.

The mass of the population of New France were descended from settlers sent out within a short
time after the first occupation of the country, and who were not selected for any peculiar
qualifications. They were not led to emigrate from the spirit of adventure, disappointed ambition,
or political discontent; by far the larger proportion left their native country under the pressure
of extreme want or in blind obedience to the will of their superiors. They were then established
in points best suited to the interests of France, not those best suited to their own. The physical
condition of the humbler emigrant, however, became better than that of his countrymen in the
Old World; the fertile soil repaid his labor with competence; independence fostered self-reliance,
and the unchecked range of forest and prairie inspired him with thoughts of freedom. But all
these elevating tendencies were fatally counteracted by the blighting influence of feudal organization.
Restrictions, humiliating as well as injurious, pressed upon the person and property of the
Canadian. Every avenue to wealth and influence was closed to him and thrown open to the children
of Old France. He saw whole tracts of the magnificent country lavished upon the favorites and
military followers of the court, and, through corrupt or capricious influences, the privilege
of exclusive trade granted for the aggrandizement of strangers at his expense.

France founded a state in Canada. She established a feudal and ecclesiastical frame-work for
the young nation, and into that Procrustean bed the growth of population and the proportions
of society were forced. The state fixed governments at Montreal, Three Rivers, and Quebec;
there towns arose. She divided the rich banks of the St. Lawrence and of the Richelieu into
seigneuries; there population spread. She placed posts on the lakes and rivers of the Far West;
there the fur-traders congregated. She divided the land into dioceses and parishes, and appointed
bishops and curates; a portion of all produce of the soil was exacted for their support. She
sent out the people at her own cost, and acknowledged no shadow of popular rights. She organized
the inhabitants by an unsparing conscription, and placed over them officers either from the
Old Country or from the favored class of seigneurs. She grasped a monopoly of every valuable
production of the country, and yet forced upon it her own manufactures to the exclusion of
all others. She squandered her resources and treasures on the colony, but violated all principles
of justice in a vain endeavor to make that colony a source of wealth. She sent out the ablest
and best of her officers to govern on the falsest and worst of systems. Her energy absorbed
all individual energy; her perpetual and minute interference aspired to shape and direct all
will and motive of her subjects. The state was every thing, the people nothing. Finally, when
the power of the state was broken by a foreign foe, there remained no power of the people to
supply its place. On the day that the French armies ceased to resist, Canada was a peaceful
province of British America.

A few years after the French crown had founded a state in Canada, a handful of Puritan refugees
founded a people in New England. They bore with them from the mother country little beside
a bitter hatred of the existing government, and a stern resolve to perish or be free. One small
vessel--the Mayflower--held them, their wives, their children, and their scanty stores. So
ignorant were they of the country of their adoption, that they sought its shores in the depth
of winter, when nothing but a snowy desert met their sight. Dire hardships assailed them; many
sickened and died, but those who lived still strove bravely. And bitter was their trial; the
scowling sky above their heads, the frozen earth under their feet, and sorest of all, deep
in their strong hearts the unacknowledged love of that venerable land which they had abandoned
forever.

But brighter times soon came; the snowy desert changed into a fair scene of life and vegetation.
The woods rang with the cheerful sound of the ax; the fields were tilled hopefully, the harvest
gathered gratefully. Other vessels arrived bearing more settlers, men, for the most part, like
those who had first landed. Their numbers swelled to hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands.
They formed themselves into a community; they decreed laws, stern and quaint, but suited to
their condition. They had neither rich nor poor; they admitted of no superiority save in their
own gloomy estimate of merit; they persecuted all forms of faith different from that which
they themselves held, and yet they would have died rather than suffer the religious interference
of others. Far from seeking or accepting aid from the government of England, they patiently
tolerated their nominal dependence only because they were virtually independent. For protection
against the savage; for relief in pestilence or famine; for help to plenty and prosperity,
they trusted alone to God in heaven, and to their own right hand on earth.

Such, in the main, were the ancestors of the men of New England, and, in spite of all subsequent
admixture, such, in the main, were they themselves. In the other British colonies also, hampered
though they were by charters, and proprietary rights, and alloyed by a Babel congregation of
French Huguenots, Dutch, Swedes, Quakers, Nobles, Roundheads, Canadians, rogues, zealots, infidels,
enthusiasts, and felons, a general prosperity had created individual self-reliance, and self-reliance
had engendered the desire of self-government. Each colony contained a separate vitality within
itself. They commenced under a variety of systems; more or less practicable, more or less liberal,
and more or less dependent on the parent state. But the spirit of adventure, the disaffection,
and the disappointed ambition which had so rapidly recruited their population, gave a general
bias to their political feelings which no arbitrary authority could restrain, and no institutions
counteract. They were less intolerant and morose, but at the same time, also, less industrious
and moral than their Puritan neighbors. Like them, however, they resented all interference
from England as far as they dared, and constantly strove for the acquisition or retention of
popular rights.

The British colonists, left at first, in a great measure, to themselves, settled on the most
fertile lands, built their towns upon the most convenient harbors, directed their industry
to the most profitable commerce, raised the most valuable productions. The trading spirit of
the mother country became almost a passion when transferred to the New World. Enterprise and
industry were stimulated to incredible activity by brilliant success and ample reward. As wealth
and the means of subsistence increased, so multiplied the population. Early marriages were
universal; a numerous family was the riches of the parent. Thousands of immigrants, also, from
year to year swelled the living flood that poured over the wilderness. In a century and a half
the inhabitants of British America exceeded nearly twenty-fold the people of New France. The
relative superiority of the first over the last was even greater in wealth and resources than
in population. The merchant navy of the English colonies was already larger than that of many
European nations, and known in almost every port in the world where men bought and sold. New
France had none.

The French colonies were founded and fostered by the state, with the real object of extending
the dominion, increasing the power, and illustrating the glory of France. The ostensible object
of settlement, at least that holding the most prominent place in all Acts and Charters, was
to extend the true religion, and to minister to the glory of God. From the earliest time the
ecclesiastical establishments of Canada were formed on a scale suited to these professed views.
Not only was ample provision made for the spiritual wants of the European population, but the
labors of many earnest and devoted men were directed to the enlightenment of the heathen Indians.
At first the Church and the civil government leaned upon each other for mutual support and
assistance, but after a time, when neither of these powers found themselves troubled with popular
opposition, their union grew less intimate; their interests differed, jealousies ensued, and
finally they became antagonistic orders in the community. The mass of the people, more devout
than intelligent, sympathized with the priesthood; this sympathy did not, however, interfere
with unqualified submission to the government.

The Canadians were trained to implicit obedience to their rulers, spiritual and temporal: these
rulers ventured not to imperil their absolute authority by educating their vassals. It is true
there were a few seminaries and schools under the zealous administration of the Jesuits; but
even that instruction was unattainable by the general population; those who walked in the moonlight
which such reflected rays afforded, were not likely to become troublesome as sectarians or
politicians. Much credit for sincerity can not be given to those who professed to promote the
education of the people, when no printing-press was ever permitted in Canada during the government
of France.

Canada, unprovoked by Dissent, was altogether free from the stain of religious persecution:
hopelessly fettered in the chains of metropolitan power, she was also undisturbed by political
agitation. But this calm was more the stillness of stagnation than the tranquillity of content.
Without a press, without any semblance of popular representation, there hardly remained other
alternatives than tame submission or open mutiny. By hereditary habit and superstition the
Canadians were trained to the first, and by weakness and want of energy they were incapacitated
for the last.

Although the original charter of New England asserted the king's supremacy in matters of religion,
a full understanding existed that on this head ample latitude should be allowed; ample latitude
was accordingly taken. She set up a system of faith of her own, and enforced conformity. But
the same spirit that had excited the colonists to dissent from the Church of England, and to
sacrifice home and friends in the cause, soon raised up among them a host of dissenters from
their own stern and peculiar creed. Their clergy had sacrificed much for conscience' sake,
and were generally "faithful, watchful, painful, serving their flock daily with prayers and
tears," some among them, also, men of high European repute. They had often, however, the mortification
of seeing their congregations crowding to hear the ravings of any knave or enthusiast who broached
a new doctrine. Most of these mischievous fanatics were given the advantage of that interest
and sympathy which a cruel and unnecessary persecution invariably excites. All this time freedom
of individual judgment was the watch-word of the persecutors. There is no doubt that strong
measures were necessary to curb the furious and profane absurdities of many of the seceders,
who were the very outcasts of religion. On considering the criminal laws of the time, it would
also appear that not a few of the outcasts of society, also, had found their way to New England.
The code of Massachusetts contained the description of the most extraordinary collection of
crimes that ever defaced a statute-book, and the various punishments allotted to each.

In one grand point the pre-eminent merit of the Puritans must be acknowledged: they strove
earnestly and conscientiously for what they held to be the truth. For this they endured with
unshaken constancy, and persecuted with unremitting zeal.

The suicidal policy of the Stuarts had, for a time, driven all the upholders of civil liberty
into the ranks of sectarianism. The advocates of the extremes of religious and political opinion
flocked to America, the furthest point from kings and prelates that they could conveniently
reach. Ingrafted on the stubborn temper of the Englishman, and planted in the genial soil of
the West, the love of this civil and religious liberty grew up with a vigor that time only
served to strengthen; that the might of armies vainly strove to overcome. Thus, ultimately,
the persecution under the Stuarts was the most powerful cause ever yet employed toward the
liberation of man in his path through earth to heaven.

For many years England generally refrained from interference with her American colonies in
matters of local government or in religion. They taxed themselves, made their own laws, and
enjoyed religious freedom in their own way. In one state only, in Virginia, was the Church
of England established, and even there it was accorded very little help by the temporal authority:
in a short time it ceased to receive the support of a majority of the settlers, and rapidly
decayed. On one point, however, the mother country claimed and exacted the obedience of the
colonists to the imperial law. In her commercial code she would not permit the slightest relaxation
in their favor, whatever the peculiar circumstances of their condition might be. This short-sighted
and unjust restriction was borne, partly because it could not be resisted, and partly because
at that early time the practical evil was but lightly felt. Although the principle of representation
was seldom specified in the earlier charters, the colonists in all cases assumed it as a matter
of right: they held that their privileges as Englishmen accompanied them wherever they went,
and this was generally admitted as a principle of colonial policy.

In the seventeenth century England adopted the system of transportation to the American colonies.
The felons were, however, too limited in numbers to make any serious inroad upon the morals
or tranquillity of the settlers. Many of the convicts were men sentenced for political crimes,
but free from any social taint; the laboring population, therefore, did not regard them with
contempt, nor shrink from their society. It may be held, therefore, that this partial and peculiar
system of transportation introduced no distinct element into the constitution of the American
nation.

