Young girls, too, are frequently compromised by the professional "masher." This vile species
of the genus homo affects the fashionable streets where he saunters in solitary splendor, waiting
for an opportunity to make the acquaintance of some young girl on her way to or from school.
If her parents happen to be wealthy, the extraction of a neat sum follows this undesirable
association; far an exposure in which her name would in any way be associated with the adventurer's,
would forever stigmatize her in society. In some instances the immature acquaintance has developed
into an elopement, and when parental interference followed, it was discovered that the scalawag
husband was not only ready but willing to relinquish his bride when the money agreement was
made sufficiently potent. Sometimes, again, a man is sufficiently infatuated to marry a lady
with a soiled or shady reputation, and if that circumstance becomes known to the Knight of
Black-mail, it is morally certain that potential hush-money will be extorted. In point of fact
every kind of "skeleton," social or criminal, if once its whereabouts be discovered and its
individuality established, becomes a source of revenue to those unscrupulous pirates of society.

It occasionally happens that black-mailers will systematically weave a web whereby they may
entangle a wealthy person. The possession of wealth confers no exemption from the weaknesses
and frailties of human nature, and in many instances indeed the unwise use of money only brings
the obliquities of its possessor into greater prominence. It is not long since an affluent
and well-known elderly merchant of this city, walking in the neighborhood of the Fifth Avenue
Hotel, had his attention attracted by a beautiful woman of graceful carriage and voluptuous
symmetry of form, who seemed to keep just abreast of him on the inner sidewalk, and maintained
this relative position block after block. He was not insensible to the charm of the situation,
and, before he exactly knew how, was engaged in conversation with the fair unknown. She was
an admirable conversationalist and spoke with that expressive pantomime which gives probability
to the blackest lies. Thus conversing, he accompanied her to the residence she had been describing.
The "residence" proved to be an assignation house. He entered, unconscious of the character
of the house, and, as he had been on his way home, remained within only a few brief moments.
Bidding the lady politely "good-day," he took his leave. As he walked rather briskly up the
street he was accosted by a gentleman, who brusquely said:

"So, sir! I have got you at last. I have had my suspicions excited for some time past concerning
the probity of my wife, but until to-day have failed in discovering proofs of her infidelity.
Now, however, I have them! You have just left the house. I saw you and her meet on the street
and I followed you."

The respectable elderly gentleman protested with all the indignation of maligned innocence,
and was fluent and resourceful in explanation. He had, he said, simply been doing an act of
politeness that any gentleman deserving the name would have as readily discharged, and so forth.
His interlocutor didn't see it in that light, and told him so. The following day he was waited
upon by the much-injured husband, who informed him that he was about to institute divorce proceedings
against his wife. To demonstrate that he was dead in earnest he produced a formally drawn complaint
in which the wildly astonished and indignant merchant figured as co-respondent. The result
of this cunning maneuver may be foreseen. The old gentleman paid a large sum of money to the
"injured" husband on the condition that he would withdraw the legal proceedings against his
wife. When the money had been spent, the leech again renewed his black-mailing effort, and
with success, although the respectable gentleman had been guilty of no further crime than the
indiscretion of accepting the woman's invitation to step inside for a minute or two. With the
second payment, however, he obtained a promise from the "husband" that on the receipt of the
money he would start for California and importune him no more. It is perhaps needless to state
that the scoundrel never left, but soon after made further demands, always holding over the
victim threats of exposure in divorce proceedings. This system of extortion continued until
as much as eight or nine thousand dollars had been paid. He was then impelled, in sheer self-defense,
to consult a lawyer, when further extortion at once ceased and determined. It subsequently
transpired that the "lady" and her "husband" were two of the most notorious panel thieves in
the city.

The "anonymous letter" dodge is also sometimes successfully operated in levying black-mail.
The conspirator becomes acquainted with real or alleged facts, and dispatches an artfully-worded
communication for the purpose of frightening the intended quarry. Very frequently silence is
obtained by the payment of a lump sum of money, especially where the victim lacks backbone
and decision of character.

Another form of black-mail is practiced by women who run fashionable assignation houses and
bagnios in this city. Gentlemen well known in public life, fathers of families, and even clergymen,
are occasionally found in these gilded palaces of sin. It is a simple matter for the madame
of the house to inform "her friend" that Mr. This, or the Reverend Mr. That, has been numbered
among her recent visitors. The usual machinery is set in motion forthwith--threats of exposure
and importunate demands for money. When the intended victim refuses to be black-mailed, his
family--his daughter, perchance--is notified of her father's transgression and informed that
the affair will be made public. Under such circumstances she is very likely indeed to pay hush-money
rather than have her family's honored name dragged through the dirt of public scandal.

It is not so long ago that a regular business of blackmail was conducted in connection with
the leading assignation houses. Ladies, as well as gentlemen, who visited them by appointment
were "shadowed" and "spotted"; sometimes followed home and their standing and character in
the community carefully determined, preparatory to the application of the financial thumbscrews.

A noted black-mailer of this city at one time maintained his wife in a private house, conveniently
within call of a woman who kept a house of ill-fame. The wife promptly responded to any summons
from the madame, and when she subsequently made the acquaintance of some wealthy visitor she
would inform her husband of the gentleman's name and position. If, as probable, he was a person
of ostensible respectability and advanced in years, with everything to lose by exposure, he
"came down" promptly and liberally. On other occasions this high-toned husband would procure,
through the offices of a mutual friend, an introduction for his wife to some prominent member
of the Stock Exchange. The lady, who was a remarkably handsome, fascinating and wily woman,
usually entangled the intended victim in the snare. Then the Husband appeared on the scene,
boiling with indignation and "breathing threatenings and slaughter" until money was paid. The
gentleman so entrapped might afterwards complain to his friend who introduced him to the siren,
but he would never dream of associating him in the "crooked" transaction.

We are not alarmists by any means, but simply relate facts as they have come within our personal
knowledge. The weakness of human nature, combined with the play of the passions, especially
the passion of love, renders the existence of the black-mailer possible and often profitable.
In a city like ours, where such freedom is accorded to young wives and demoiselles, it is not
surprising that machinations against their virtue and their honor are planned and executed.

The picture has still another side. What does the reader think, for example, of a mother who
has three daughters,--bright, beautiful little girls, with long braided hair hanging down their
shapely backs, large, lustrous, melting eyes; childish, innocent-looking lambs, aged respectively
thirteen, fifteen and seventeen,--and sends them on the street in the afternoons, exquisitely
and temptingly dressed, in order to capture susceptible elderly gentlemen? Yet these bewitching
little girls have been often seen in the neighborhood of Madison Square, on Broadway, Fifth
Avenue, and even down on Wall street. Their mother would follow them at a distance, keeping
them in view all the time. When accosted by a gentleman, which happened every day, their mother
would follow them, watch the man when he came out of the house or hotel with one of her daughters,
and the next day visit him, saying he had destroyed her young and beautiful daughter, and so
on, and that she was going to have him arrested. This species of black-mail is not so uncommon
as it would seem, even the fathers of young and prepossessing girls are partners in these affairs.

As a fact there is nothing that devilish ingenuity can devise to entice men and women into
committing every kind of crime that is not practiced by the blackmailers of this city, and
many are the fish that are landed and great the booty that is secured.

We are told that "all the world loves a lover," and it is, perhaps, equally true that most
people like to read the details of clever detective exploits. The deeds of criminals naturally
awaken the emotions of horror, fear, curiosity and awe in proportion to their heinousness and
the mystery by which they are enveloped. Consequently the detective officer who pierces the
mystery--unravels it thread by thread, and by unerring sagacity penetrates its innermost depths
and lays his hand on the criminal--is at once invested, in the popular mind, with qualities
approaching the preternatural. The vivid and fertile imagination of the literary romancist
magnifies the illusion. The detective of the successful novel resembles the Deity in his attributes
of ubiquity and omniscience. In whatever city his functions are exercised we may be sure that
he knows every man-Jack of the criminal classes, their past and present history, their occupation
and their residence. He knows all their names, their aliases and their soubriquets, just as
Julius Cæsar, as tradition tells, knew all the soldiers of his army. Moreover, they are invariably
individuals of remarkable personality. While endowed with a strong spice of the world, the
flesh and the devil, they are at the same time clothed in a sort of white robe of social immaculacy.
They are half lamb and half wolf, if such a paradoxical being were possible.

Take, for instance, the Inspector Javert of Victor Hugo: A tall man, dressed in an iron-grey
great coat, armed with a thick cane, and wearing a hat with a turndown brim; grave with an
almost menacing gravity, with a trick of folding his arms, shaking his head and raising his
upper lip with the lower as high as his nose, in a sort of significant grimace. He had a stub
nose with two enormous nostrils, toward which enormous whiskers mounted on his cheeks. His
forehead could not be seen, for it was hidden by his hat; his eyes could not be seen because
they were lost under his eyebrows; his chin was plunged into his cravat; his hands were covered
by his cuffs, and his cane was carried under his coat. But when the opportunity arrived there
could be seen suddenly emerging from all this shadow, as from an ambush, an angular, narrow
forehead, a fatal glance, a menacing chin, an enormous hand, and a monstrous rattan. When he
laughed, which was rare and terrible, his thin lips parted and displayed not only his teeth
but his gums, and a savage, flat curl formed round his nose. When serious he was a bulldog,
when he laughed he was a tiger. His guiding principles--or perhaps instincts is the more appropriate
word--were respect for authority and hatred of rebellion. In his eyes all crimes were only
forms of rebellion. Give a human face, writes Hugo, to the dog-son of a she-wolf and we shall
have Javert. No wonder that his glance was a gimlet, or that his whole life was divided between
watching and overlooking. And, as if all this analytic rodomontade was not enough, we are told
in characteristic rhetorical vagueness that he was a pitiless watchman, a marble-hearted spy,
a Brutus contained in a Vidocq.

Readers of Dickens will remember that Mr. Bucket appears on the scene in Bleak House in a weird
and mysterious way, which suggests that Inspector Byrne, of New York, had been a student of
lawyer Tulkinghorn's methods when he undertook to pump Alderman Jaehne. The sly lawyer is plying
Snagsby with rare old port in the dim twilight and evolving his story, when suddenly the victim
becomes conscious of the presence of "a person with a hat and stick in his hand, who was not
there when he himself came in, and has not since entered by either of the windows." When the
poor, hen-pecked wretch, who has thus been drawn into the legal confessional, learns that Mr.
Bucket is a detective officer, "there is a strong tendency in the clump of Snagsby's hair to
stand on end."

The method of Bucket consists partly of gross flattery and of being "all things to all men,"
as Saint Paul somewhere advises. "You're a man of the world," he says to Snagsby; "a man of
business and a man of sense. That's what you are, and therefore it is unnecessary to tell you
to keep QUIET." He flatters the gorgeous flunkey at Chesney Wold by adroitly commending his
statuesque proportions, and hinting that he has a friend--a Royal Academy sculptor--who may
one of those days make a drawing of his proportions. Further, to elicit the confidence of the
vain and empty-headed Jeames, Bucket declares that his own father was successively a page,
a footman, a butler, a steward, and an innkeeper. As Bucket moves along London streets, young
men, with shining hats and sleek hair, evaporate at the monitory touch of his cane. When there
is a big job on the tapis "Bucket and his fat forefinger are much in consultation together.
He was dressed in a decent black with a white cravat. Then as to Cuff's methods: He is introduced
to the reader with the usual air of mystery. To the gardener's astonishment Cuff proved to
be quite a mine of learning on the trumpery subject of rose gardens. As in the case of Bucket,
the effective armor of Cuff is flattery. "You have got a head on your shoulders and you understand
what I mean," is his typical style of address.

It is unnecessary to remind the reader that the detective of the novelist cannot be foiled
or turned aside by false scents from the unerring pursuit of his lawful prey. If by malice
prepense Javert or Cuff is temporarily beguiled, it is simply for the purpose of showing that
the writer himself is in reality a very much more ingenious person than even the subtle detective
he depicts for the delectation of his readers. These tricks resemble those feints of failure
common to professional gymnasts and trapezists, purposely perpetrated with the object of magnifying
in the mind of the excited spectator the difficulty or danger of the performance.

In our American literature the most popular detective stories are not composed of the imaginary
performances of fictitious characters. We have made a great advance on that unsatisfactory
and effete style. To satisfy the exacting palate of our reading people, we require a real flesh-and-blood
detective, with a popular name and reputation, to pose as the figurehead, while an ingenious
scribbler does the romancing. There is something thrilling and realistic in this method, and
it carries an air of veracity which is irresistibly attractive and convincing. The French people
did something of the same kind for Vidocq and Lecocq; but, as in most everything else, there
is a pervading breeziness and expansiveness of horizon about the American product that is totally
lacking in the blazé, frouzy, over-geometrical, Gallic detective romance.

No doubt the popular conception of the detective has been derived from the flash literature
in which the "Old Sleuths" have formed the pervading figure. Concerning them, a clever ex-member
of that particular branch of the force recently said:

"Now that I'm out of the business I don't mind telling you what you perhaps already know--that
the usual stories of detective work are the veriest bosh. There is not one officer in ten thousand,
for instance, who ever disguises himself for any work he may be bent upon. The successful detective
is the man who has the largest and most accurate knowledge of a particular class of criminals.
For instance, in a counterfeiting case there are one or two United States officers who will
look at a bill, and after a scrutiny will say, 'Now, let's see; there are three men in the
country who are capable of such work as this. Bad Jack is doing a ten-year stretch in Sing
Sing, Clever Charley is in hock at Joliet, and Sweet William is the only one who is at large--it
must be William.' So he proceeds to locate William, and when they get him they have the man
who did the work."

As to those very interesting newspaper reports about how Detective So-and-So, while strolling
down Broadway, saw a suspicious-looking individual whom he "piped" to the east side of the
city, and eventually arrested in possession of property supposed to have been the plunder from
a certain burglary, they are equally misleading. As the ex-officer, quoted above, said:

"Ninety-nine out of a hundred cases are worked through the squeal of some thief, or ex-thief,
who keeps posted on the doings of others of his class in the city. He knows some officer intimately;
goes to him and tells him that the night before One-Thumbed Charley turned a trick on Church
street, and the stuff is 'planted' at such and such a place. Acting on this information, the
officers visit the place indicated, and just sit around and wait till their man shows up. Lots
of ability about that, isn't there? Some people have an idea, you know, that after a burglary
the detectives visit the house where it occurred, and, after examining certain marks on the
window where the man got in, immediately say: 'This is the work of Slippery Sam; he is the
only fellow who does this sort of work in this particular style.' Nothing of the kind. It's
just as I've told you in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. In the other cases, some citizen
gives the officers information that leads to the capture of the man."

If the foregoing illustrations serve no other purpose, they at least emphasize the point which
might have been made at the outset of this chapter, that detectives are a recognized necessity
of our civilization. Crime and vice permeate every rank and every profession, and just as surely
as crime and vice will always exist, so will detectives be employed to discover wrong-doers
and hand them over to justice. Crime and vice are two terms used for the infraction of different
kinds of laws--social and moral--and detectives may be conveniently classed in the same way.
The detectives who deal with the transgression of social laws, including such crimes as counterfeiting
coin and notes, railroad bonds, scrip, etc., forgers, embezzlers, swindlers, and the wide class
of criminals generally, are exceedingly useful members of the community when they are inspired
by a high sense of duty, and guided by principles of truth and integrity. The other class of
detectives who enact the role of Paul Pry on breaches of the moral law, as, for example, the
working up of testimony in divorce cases, is mostly a despicable, unreliable, corrupt being,
whose methods are villainous, and whose existence is a misfortune.

Concerning our New York detectives, a writer of some note said, as recently as 1879:

"It is claimed that in about eight years the district attorney's office in New York has not
known of one conviction of a criminal through the instrumentality of their detective police.
And in those years the city has been overwhelmed and startled over and over again by depredations
of almost fabulous magnitude. Still, although the scoundrels are known, and their haunts familiar
to what are called 'the detectives,' they are never brought to justice unless they stagger
up against the representatives of some of the many detective organizations in New York. Instead
of surrounding the thieves with a net-work of evidence to convict them, the New York headquarters'
detectives furnish them with all the facilities for escape known to modern criminal practice."

No doubt this deplorable condition of affairs was very largely due to the prevailing practice
of the victims of robberies compromising with the felons. In this way detectives eagerly seize
the opportunity of acting as go-betweens, and hence their relations with the criminal classes
are established and maintained. They are thus largely interested, not in the prevention and
discovery of crime, but in its perpetration and concealment. By this method they thrive, and
their large incomes and accumulated property are no doubt largely attributable to the success
of these delicate negotiations.

We are glad to bear testimony to the fact, however, that there is a great improvement in the
detective force of this city, noticeable during its present administration. The men now engaged
on the local detective force are as a class, those who have kept their eyes open, and have
formed a wide acquaintance among criminals in the district, and are therefore able to obtain
information from these crooks about the movements of those suspected of having been mixed up
in certain criminal work. For when the reader reflects how easily criminals keep out of the
reach of the police in St. Petersburg, Paris and Vienna, where every concierge, every porter,
every storekeeper, every housekeeper, is required to report to the police at least once a week
all the details of strangers with whom they may have come in contact, it should be no wonder
that criminals can elude the police in New York and other American cities.

Concerning the private detective agencies, it has been said by one of their number:

"They are no better than the regular officers so far as skill is concerned. The only real difference
is that there is a superior intelligence in the make-up--their disguise--of the agency people.
They are first-rate at shadowing a man, but any man with ordinary good sense, who knows how
to keep his mouth shut, will make a good shadow. If you will watch the private agency men carefully
you will find that they associate largely with the high-toned criminal class. They are solid
with one or two leaders and all the gamblers. All thieves of any prominence are gamblers, and
as soon as they turn a big trick, they are sure to turn up here or in some other city and 'play
the bank' a little. The agency men who are associating with the gamblers hear of this as soon
as the crook strikes town, and a little inquiry set on foot will show where the crook came
from. If, then, in the course of a few days, a complaint is lodged with the agency people from
the town where the suspected party has been that a big confidence game has been played, or
that a forged or raised check has been worked on some bank or other institution, it is not
very hard to imagine that the thief who was recently so flush is the one who turned the trick."

There are a great many private detective organizations in New York City, some of which are
located in elegant and commodious quarters, with a net-work of agencies covering the whole
country and extending even to Europe. Between these reliable firms and the guttersnipe operator
there are among detectives, as among other professions, every grade of reliability and respectability,
some making a handsome living and some earning a bare existence. There are some thousands of
them, and they all occasionally find something to do which pays. It may be watching some money-broker's
exchange down-town, for the dishonest boy of some establishment clandestinely selling the postage
stamps of his firm. It may be shadowing a confidential clerk, whose blood-shot eyes and generally
"used-up" air have attracted the notice of his employers, who thereupon desire to learn where
and how his evenings are spent. It may be some bank clerk, hitherto enjoying the confidence
of the directors, but who now, in consequence of certain rumors, desire to have him watched.
Or it may be any of a thousand instances in which an employee ceases to retain the full confidence
of his employer, and the convenient private detective's services are at once put in requisition.
Undoubtedly it would greatly surprise the army of clerks, cashiers and assistants of this and
every great city to learn how many of them are thus under detective espionage. The young fellow
may have fallen into the web of the siren. He may be down at Coney Island or at the races enjoying
himself; utterly unconscious that a pair of watchful eyes is observing every motion and chronicling
every act. Some fatal morning the reckoning comes. Despite his proficiency in bookkeeping,
he will be unable to figure up and cover the money he has squandered in gambling houses, on
the street, or at the race-course. "Crimine ab uno disce omnes," says Virgil. From a single
offense you may gather the nature of the whole.

The detective who accepts employment for the purpose of procuring testimony in divorce cases
is undoubtedly at the nadir of his profession. No self-respecting member of the private detective
organizations will undertake the service even when the pecuniary inducement, as is frequently
the case, is large and tempting. For testimony so procured is regarded by the courts with suspicion.
The veracity of a person who would crawl into a house, peer through a key-hole or crane his
head through a transom window for the purpose of witnessing an act of immorality, can hardly
be considered higher than his sense of honor, decency and self-respect. When he stoops to this
kind of business he will hardly manifest any remarkable zeal for truth-telling, and he will
be quite likely to offer to sell his evidence to the other side--a course which invariably
transpires when the other side is willing to pay for the information.

Violations of conjugal faith are, unfortunately, not unknown, but in the majority of cases
the intrigue progresses in secure secrecy until some wholly unforeseen accident brings it to
sudden and relentless publicity. The recent case of a Brooklyn lady, who was carried into the
city-hospital of that city about the beginning of last June, with both legs broken, illustrates
this position with singular force and aptness. To quote from the article of the New York Sun
of June 7, 1886:

"Mrs. Williams is young and pretty. 'She is not bad,' her melancholy husband said of her yesterday,
'only gay like.' She has been married about ten years, and two little children--a boy and a
girl--are now longing for a mother's care and tenderness, which she cannot give them perhaps
ever again. The faithful husband of the unfortunate woman is a hard-working man, honest if
not dashing, devoted to his home, fond of his wife and proud of his children. 'I have been
way down,' he says, 'but I am getting good wages now and getting on top again. But Lizzie wasn't
content with these things. She was full of life, and I ought to have watched her long ago.
Then this wouldn't have happened.'

"What has happened is this: When Lizzie went down on Fulton street on Saturday a week ago,
ostensibly to make some purchases, she didn't return that night. Her husband's anxiety was
increased when on Sunday he had no tidings of her. Day after day passed without word, and he
sent for a young woman friend of Mrs. Williams to come in and look after the children and the
household.

"On Thursday a young man from East New York, a friend of Mrs. Williams and a relative of a
certain young lady friend of hers, stuck his head in the basement window of Fainter Williams'
house and said:

"'Lizzy is in the City Hospital. She was hurt by a runaway, and both her legs are broken.'

"Mrs. Williams had first sent word to her East New York friend, who had thus taken the first
tidings of his wayward wife to her anxious husband. Williams went at once to the hospital and
found his Lizzie. She told him she had been driving with a friend in Fulton avenue and had
been hurt.

"'Who was he?' Williams asked eagerly, the suspicions which he had been putting away from him
for a long time suddenly becoming convictions.

"'None of your business,' said pretty Lizzie, defiantly. This reply was calculated to satisfy
her husband that all was not right. In fact, it convinced him that everything was wrong, and
in his excitement and pain he upbraided his wife with such vehemence that she called upon the
hospital attendants to put him out of the ward unless he quieted down.

"Superintendent of Police Campbell heard of the alleged runaway in Fulton street, and he wanted
to know why it had never been reported to him officially. He began an investigation and learned
that the mishap had occurred out on the Coney Island boulevard. Mrs. Williams was confronted
with this report. She denied its truth vehemently and protested 'before Almighty God' and in
the presence of nurses and patients that she was run over and hurt in Fulton street. Nothing
could move her from this statement, and when fifty witnesses to her accident sent word to the
Police Superintendent of what they had seen, she was not discomfited, but repeated her false
statements with determination.

"Mr. Williams says that his wife has for a long time nodded to sportive-looking men as they
have passed his Bergen street house, and her absences from home have been irregular and sometimes
prolonged indiscreetly into the evening. He has felt that her love of attention and social
excitement was leading her beyond the bounds of propriety, but he had no doubt until now of
her faithfulness to him and her children.

"Who took Mrs. Williams to drive on this eventful Saturday afternoon a week ago is her secret,
shared only by her escort. Where they met is not known by anyone, but they started about four
o'clock and drove through Prospect Park to the Coney Island boulevard. The day was fine and
many fashionable turnouts and flashy rigs were on the road. Mrs. Williams, in her close-fitting
and becoming dark habit, sat beside a young man not over twenty-five years old, in a road wagon
of approved style, and behind a well-kept and fleet-footed horse. It was unmistakably a private
rig. Her escort was of light hair and complexion, fashionably dressed, and of a style that
is called 'giddy.'

"Down the level road they drove at a good pace toward the King's Highway, which crosses the
boulevard about two and a half miles from the Park, and just north of John Kelly's hospitable
road house. A short distance before this point was reached ex-Alderman Ruggles of Brooklyn
came bowling along at a 2.40 gait, and he gave the young man who was driving Mrs. Williams
a brush along an open stretch of road. As they were speeding on toward Coney Island a dog-cart
suddenly loomed up, coming from the opposite direction, and bore down upon the racers.

"Mrs. Williams and her friend were on the right side of the road and Alderman Ruggles was in
the middle. The dog-cart undertook to pass between them, and in doing so struck the wheel of
the light road wagon, throwing Mrs. Williams' companion out. He was not hurt, and he held on
to the reins just long enough to check his horse's speed and change his course. The spirited
animal turned short across the road right in front of Kelly's and the wagon was upset, throwing
Mrs. Williams out. She fell under the wagon and her left ankle and right thigh were fractured.
A great many people saw the upset and ran to the injured woman's assistance . . . . . .

"When Mr. Williams was told about the accident he said, 'If that's so, I give her up. If she
has done that I am through with her. She cannot come back to me. As long as she lies to me,
to shield this other fellow, she may go to him. She can't come to me.'"

This giddy Brooklyn woman reckoned too much on her influence over her husband, when she expected
to soothe his resentment by holding her tongue. Those women who deceive good, indulgent husbands,
frequently discover, to their sorrow, that the most unmerciful and inexorable of men are those
who have been deceived by their idolized partners. Yet men of this kind would be far more likely
to thrash a private detective, who had possessed himself of the particulars of the amour in
a sneaking way, than to recompense him, and properly, while the courts would absolutely refuse
to receive such testimony unless abundantly corroborated. For those and other considerations,
which will readily occur to the thoughtful reader, the detective who engages to get up testimony
in cases of marital unfaithfulness is regarded as quite ghoulish by his fellow-detectives,
and looked upon as being entirely unworthy of credence by lawyers and courts.

After all that has been said the press is, on the whole, the best detective--the most reliable
and efficient agent against evil-doers. When a crime is committed the daily newspaper, with
its Argus eyes, gives such minute and circumstantial details, together with such exhaustive
particulars concerning its environment, and the details of its perpetration and supposed authors,
that the public at large, so instructed and informed, become detectives. Hence "crooked" and
wicked people are really more afraid of the thunderbolt exposure of the newspapers than of
the slower and more uncertain action of the law.

CHAPTER XX.

GAMBLING AND GAMBLERS.

"And there were several offered any bet,
        Or that he would, or that he would not come;
For most men (till by losing rendered sager),
Will back their own opinions with a wager."
                                    --Byron's "Beppo."

Some people are born gamblers, and resemble Jim Smiley, of Mark Twain's "Jumping Frog."

Despite all efforts of repressive legislation, games of chance are in vogue all over the country.
Gambling is practiced everywhere. Tourists to and from Europe engage in draw-poker and other
games of chance, while they make pools and lay wagers on the distance sailed per day, or the
length of the voyage, and on the number of the pilot-boat that will first be hailed. Gambling
prevails on board those splendid steamers that ply up and down the great rivers of the country,
and more than one passenger, driven to distraction by his losses at the gaming-table, has thrown
himself overboard. Our legislators occasionally while away the time in traveling between Albany
and New York in a poker-game, and they frequently meet each other at their lodgings around
the capitol for the same purpose. At picnics in summer, when Nature wears her most enticing
garmenture, groups of young men may be discovered separated from the merry-making multitude,
jammed into some nook with a pack of cards, cutting, dealing, playing, revoking, scoring and
snarling, wholly engrossed in the game.

No game of chance is more extensively played in New York City than policy. Many people are
disposed to regard policy as the negro's game exclusively, but this is a great mistake. Policy
embraces all classes in its ranks, and the white devotees of the game outnumber the colored
five to one. Among the patrons of the policy-shops which, despite police raids and surveillance,
still flourish in the district, of which the Post Office may be considered the focus, may be
seen lawyers, journalists, advertising agents, book-keepers, mechanics, liquor-dealers, bar-tenders,
peddlers, insurance agents, etc. Gamblers, as a class, are very superstitious, and the white
policy-player is hardly less so than his colored brother. The latter dreams a good deal, while
the former divides his time between trying to guess the lucky numbers and avoiding evil omens.
Bad luck walks arm in arm with him beneath every ladder, and below every safe that is being
hoisted to a top-floor room. If he forgets anything when he is leaving home in the morning,
and has to turn back, he is ruined for the day. If he washes with a piece of hard untractable
soap, and it darts from his hand and scoots along the floor, his "luck has dropped" and "slidden"
likewise. If he, by some malign fate, meets a cross-eyed person, especially the first thing
on Monday morning, he is plunged into despair.

It is estimated by an old policy-player that every dollar a man gets out of the game costs
him at least five. To show how slim is the chance of winning, it is only necessary to explain
that many men play the numbers 4, 11, 44 every day regularly, and this well-known "gig" only
comes out about once a year, or say once in every 600 drawings. This is especially the negro's
"gig." He watches for its coming day after day with fond anticipation. He would rather "ketch
dat 'ar gig" for five dollars than receive a present of ten.

The lotteries now sold surreptitiously in New York are supposed to be drawn in Kentucky; but
years ago numbers were drawn from a wheel on the steps at the old City Hall in the park. When
the State Legislature annulled the charter of the lottery company and declared the game illegal,
it moved over to New Jersey, where it was drawn as late as 1850.

