After the battle of Marston, Cromwell, returning from the pursuit of a party of the royalists,
purposed to stop at Ripley; and, having an officer in his troop, a relation of Sir William
Ingilby's, that gentleman was sent to announce his arrival. The officer was informed, by the
porter at the gate, that Sir William was absent, but that he might send any message he pleased
to his lady. Having sent in his name, and obtained an audience, he was answered by the lady,
that no such person should be admitted there; adding, she had force sufficient to defend herself
and that house against all rebels. The officer, on his part, represented the extreme folly
of making any resistance, and that the safest way would be to admit the general peaceably.
After much persuasion, the lady took the advice of her kinsman, and received Cromwell at the
gate of the lodge, with a pair of pistols stuck in her apron-strings, and having told him she
expected that neither he nor his soldiers would behave improperly, led the way to the hall,
where, sitting each on a sofa, these two extraordinary personages, equally jealous of each
other's intentions, passed the whole night. At his departure in the morning the lady observed,
"It was well he had behaved in so peaceable a manner; for that, had it been otherwise, he would
not have left that house with his life."

HOWARD.

Of this celebrated man no portrait was ever painted, for he would never sit to any artist.
After his return from one of his journies to the continent, he was showing to a friend the
various things he had brought with him, and among others a new dress made in Saxony: "it was
a sort of great coat, yet graceful in its appearance, and ornamented with sober magnificence.
His visiter exclaimed, 'This is the robe in which you should be painted by Romney; I will implore
the favour on my knees if you will let me array you in this very picturesque habiliment, and
convey you instantly in a coach to Cavendish-square.'--'O fie!' replied Howard, in the mildest
tone of his gentle voice, 'O fie! I did not kneel to the emperor.'--'And I assure you,' said
the petitioner in answer to the tender reproof, 'I would never kneel to you, if you were not
above an emperor in my estimation!' The philanthropist was touched by the cordial eulogy, but
continued firm in his resolution of not granting his portrait to all the repeated requests
of important affections."-- Hayley's Life of Romney.

EDWARD DRINKER.

Edward Drinker was born in a cottage in 1689, on the spot where the city of Philadelphia now
stands, which was inhabited at the time of his birth, by Indians, a few Swedes, and Hollanders.
He often talked of picking blackberries, and catching wild rabbits, where this populous city
is now seated. He remembered William Penn arriving there the second time, and used to point
out the spot where the cabin stood in which Mr. Penn and his friends were accommodated on their
arrival.

The life of this aged citizen is marked with circumstances which never befel any other man;
for he saw greater events than any man, at least, since the Patriarchs. He saw the same spot
of earth, in the course of his own life, covered with woods and bushes, the receptacles of
wild beasts and birds of prey, afterwards become the seat of a great city, not only the first
in wealth and arts in America, but equalled by few in Europe; he saw great and regular streets,
where he had often pursued hares and wild rabbits; he saw fine churches rise upon morasses,
where he used to hear nothing but the croaking of frogs; great wharfs and warehouses, where
he had so often seen the Indian savages draw their fish from the river; and that river afterwards
full of great ships from all the world, which in his youth had nothing bigger than a canoe;
and on the same spot, where he had so often gathered huckleberries, he saw their magnificent
city hall erected, and that hall filled with legislators, astonishing the world with their
wisdom and virtue. He also saw the first treaty ratified between the united powers of America,
and the most powerful prince in Europe, with all the formality of parchment and seal; and on
the same spot where he once saw William Penn ratify his first and last treaty with the Indians;
and to conclude, he saw the beginning and end of the British empire in Pensylvania. He had
been the subject of many crowned heads; but when he heard of the many oppressive and unconstitutional
acts passed in Britain, he bought them all, and gave them to his great grandson to make kites
of; and embracing the liberty and independence of his country in his withered arms, and triumphing
in the last year of his life, in the salvation of his country. He died on the 17th of November,
1782, aged 103 years.

A SURE SIGN.

When the wind follows the sun and settles about north-west, north, or east, we have fine weather;
when, on the contrary, the wind opposes the sun's course, and returns by west, south-west,
south, and south-east, and settles in the east, foul weather prevails.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

    "I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--Wotton

       *       *       *       *       *

A man of learning was complaining to Voltaire, that few foreigners relished the beauties of
Shakspeare. "Sir," replied the wit, "bad translations torment and vex them, and prevent them
understanding your great dramatist. A blind man, sir, cannot perceive the beauty of a rose,
who only pricks his fingers with the thorns."

       *       *       *       *       *

The reign of Edward I. was marked with a singular occurrence, which serves to Illustrate the
general character of this monarch. In the year 1285, Edward took away the charter of London,
and turned out the mayor, in consequence of his suffering himself to be bribed by the bakers,
and invested one of his own appointing with the civic authority. The city, however, by making
various presents to the king, and rendering him other signal services, found means to have
their charter restored.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. E. D. Clarke's Rules far Travellers.--"Remember that you are never to conceive that you
have added enough to your journal; never at liberty to go to sleep, because you are fatigued,
until you have filled up all the blanks in it; never to go to the bottom of a mountain without
also visiting its top; never to omit visiting mines, where there are any; never to listen to
stories of banditti; nor in any instance to be frightened by bugbears."

       *       *       *       *       *

A traveller lately returned from Florida says, it is the most fertile country he ever found,
the lands producing forty bushels of frogs to the acre, and alligators enough to fence them--American
paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A rich banker of Paris happened to be present some time ago at the representation of Hamlet
in which Talma, as usual, by the fidelity and force of his delineation, drew tears from the
whole of his numerous audience. Being questioned by, a person sitting near him, who was astonished
to perceive that he alone remained unaffected during, the most pathetic scene, the banker coolly
replied, "I do not cry, because, in the first place, none of thus is true; and secondly, supposing
it to be true; what business is it of mine?"--La Furet.