WOMAN--not "lovely woman" who "stoops to folly"--nor woman who in our hour of ease is uncertain,
coy, and hard to please. But Woman, the weekly Woman who is doing uncommonly well and in her
fifty-third number, gave the week before Christmas, her idea of a Christmas dinner, and, but
for "sweetbread cutlets," a very good and simple dinner it was. The same Woman gave also, among
a variety of next-day's treatments of Turkey, Turkey in Aspic, Turkey in Europe, and Turkey
in Asia--yes--but what about "Turkey in Aspic"? It doesn't look well; much better in French.
But we dare say it's very good, though, for breakfast or supper, "devilled Turkey" is "hard
to beat."

I have been trying to read LEIGH HUNT. His Biography interested me muchly, and I had always
heard, in time past, so much of his writings, though I do not remember ever having heard the
titles of his works mentioned, that, when a neat-looking volume was sent me by Messrs. PATERSON
& Co. of Leigh Hunt's Tales, I anticipated great pleasure from their perusal. Alas! the pleasure
was only in anticipation. I have tried, as the song says, "A little bit here, and a little
bit there--Here a bit, There a bit, And everywhere a bit,"--but, hang me, says the Baron, if
I can tackle any one of them. The matter doesn't interest me, and the style doesn't fascinate
me. This may be rank heresy, but I can't help it. I have tried, and failed. Well, better to
have tried, and failed, than never to have tried at all. But I shan't try again,--at least,
not on this collection of Tales.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARS ABOUT PICTURES.--A good collection of pictures and sculpture--including works by Messrs.
BURNE-JONES, ONSLOW FORD, ALFRED GILBERT, W.L. WYLLIE, and others--is on view at the Royal
Arcade Gallery, Old Bond Street. These are to be sold for the benefit of the family of R.A.
LEDWARD, the clever young sculptor, who died only a few weeks ago. Lots more to say, but you
won't stand it, and will probably say, "Par! si bête!" So no more at present from yours par-entally,
OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGAL AND ECCLESIASTICAL DEFINITION.--A Sheriff's Officer: a Writ-ualist.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FORECAST FOR 1891.

(BEING SOME EXTRACTS FROM THE GLOOMY OUTLOOKER'S DIARY.)

January.--Continuation of "good old-fashioned winter." London "snowed up." Locomotion by Hansom
drawn by four drayhorses, the fare from Charing Cross to Bayswater being £2 15s. Milk, 10s.
the half-pint, meat unprocurable. Riot of Dukes at the Carlton to secure the last mutton chop
on the premises, suppressed by calling out the Guards. People in Belgravia burn their banisters
for want of coals. The Three per Cents go down to 35.

February.--Railway incursion into the centre of the Metropolis makes progress. Sir EDWARD WATKIN
gets his line through Lords, crosses Regent's Park, comes down Bond Street, and secures a large
centre terminus in the Green Park, with a frontage of a quarter of a mile in Piccadilly.

March.--Football atrocities on the increase. A match is played at the Oval between the Jaw
Splitting Rovers and the Spine Cracking Wanderers, in which nine are left dead on the field,
and fifteen are carried on stretchers to the nearest hospital.

April.--Increase of danger from electricity. A couple of large metropolitan hotels catching
fire from over-heated wires, nineteen waiters, twenty-three policemen, and fifty-five members
of the fire brigade getting entangled in them in their efforts to extinguish the flames, are
killed on the spot, much to the satisfaction of the holders of gas shares.

