"Since my kindly consideration for a tenant is treated with mockery I give you written notice
to leave. A 'For Sale' board will be placed in your garden. A clause in the lease authorises
me to do that. I wish you good morning."

Well, I am to be evicted, and, as I'm not an Irishman, no one will care. I shall not lie in
wait with a shot-gun for my landlord. But there is no clause in the lease forbidding me from
putting up my sale announcement beside the landlord's. It will run:--

  FOR SALE
  THIS UNDESIRABLE PROPERTY
  COST £550 IN 1913.
  Never been repaired since.
  Damp guaranteed to come through every wall.
  Mice can run under the doors but there is
  not sufficient space for cats to follow them.
  The Kitchen Range is unusable.
  All hope of baths abandon ye who enter here.
  One half of the windows won't
  open--the others won't shut.
  All chimneys smoke in all winds.
  A unique chance for the War-rich.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUFF ERRATIC.

The New Statesman contains a letter from Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT, disclaiming all responsibility
for the publisher's official description of his new novel printed on the "jacket" or paper
cover thereof. It had not been submitted to him for approval and he knew nothing of it. Mr.
BENNETT is, of course, entitled to his protest, but we greatly hope that publishers will not
be induced thereby to abstain from supplying these interesting summaries. If only the method
could be applied to standard works the results would be even more illuminating. As for example:

"HAMLET."

This delicious comedy is the romance of the Prince of Denmark, which, unlike other romances,
begins after his marriage: with Polonia, daughter of Horatio, who had been previously engaged
to both Rosenstern and Guildencranz. Hamlet, by joining a troupe of strolling players, offends
his uncle, the reigning sovereign, and is confined in a lunatic asylum.

Brilliant pictures of society in Copenhagen, Denmark Hill and Heligoland alternate with sparkling
studies of the inner life of a touring company on the Continent.

"Can a woman love three men?" is the theme of this engrossing extravaganza.

"IDYLLS OF THE KING."

In a series of exciting episodes, written in fluent heroic couplets, the author gives us a
thrilling picture of the manners and customs of the Court of King Arthur, an early British
sovereign, whose stately home was situated on the Cornish Riviera.

Owing to the compromising attentions which he pays to Elaine, the Lady of Shalott, the King
alienates the affections of Queen Guinevere and is slain by one of his knights, Lancelot by name.

Winsome women, gallant paladins and mysterious magicians throng these fascinating pages, which
incidentally throw much light on the theological problems discussed by the Knights of the Round
Table, among whom Merlin, Vivien and Enid are especially, prominent.

"VANITY FAIR."

Major Dobbin, a beau sabreur of irresistible charm, is on the point of eloping with Amelia
Osborne, the wife of a brother-officer, when the Battle of Waterloo breaks out and Dobbin is
slain. Captain Osborne, in the mistaken impression that Amelia has shared her betrayer's fate,
marries the beautiful Becky Sharp and is tried for bigamy, but is acquitted, as Becky Sharp
is proved to have been already married to an Indian Nabob of the name of Crawley. On the death
of Crawley, Becky marries the Marquis of Steyne, becomes deeply religious and dies in the odour
of sanctity.

"Is marriage a failure?" is the problem of this kaleidoscopic drama, which is handled with
all the author's well-known soulful verve.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SMITH MINOR" AGAIN.

    "Apelles fuit carus Alexandro propter comitate."
    "Apples were dear in the days of Alexander on account
    of the Committee." (? Food Controller.)

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A resolution was passed requesting the responsible local
    authority to provide thirty new houses in accordance
    with the Local Government Board's scheme. The houses
    required were--first, those which were unfit for human
    habitation."--Sussex Paper.

And, to judge by some of the fantastic designs for rural cottages published in the newspapers,
those are what they will probably get.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REAL DALRYMPLE.

You would feel quite uncomfortable if you heard Dalrymple talk. He conveys the impression that
everything is badly in the way and ought to be removed at once. That's his view. Dalrymple
has no patience with the social system. This includes everything, from the washing bill to
the House of Commons.

Dalrymple said the General Election made him impatient. By the way, Dalrymple is a fine upstanding
personage, with just the coloured hair the lady novelists dote on, and eyes in harmony; but
despite his handsome placid bearing Dalrymple is a fire-eater of the hungriest.

"What you want to do is to make a clean sweep of everything," he said. "Money is an anachronism,
and in a perfectly ordered State would not be required."

Of course it is no more use arguing with Dalrymple than it would be to attempt a controversy
on naval affairs with Lord Nelson on his pedestal.

And then there is this about Dalrymple--you remember what some Court poet said concerning Louis
THE FOURTEENTH; it was to the effect that quand le Roi parle--well, apparently everything and
everybody else had to put up the shutters. I forget exactly how the thing ran. It is just so
with Dalrymple. He comes into my room in the City and warms himself, though no fire is needed
to fan his enthusiasm for destruction. The Bolsheviks are peaceable Sunday folk compared with
him. A Nihilist on a war footing would be considered Quaker-like in his symptoms.

Dalrymple is neck or nothing. He is a whole-hogger even to the most indigestible bit of crackling.

"What we want is a fresh start," he said. "Then you could begin anew and everybody would have
a chance. Burn things, blow them up, leave nothing; then we should see something. Your whole
scheme is faulty. Your Underground--" Dalrymple has an irritating habit of fathering things
on me, which is unfair, for, as regards the Tubes, for instance, I am sorry to say I have not
even a share, and often not as much as a strap.

"But the Underground is only a bit overcrowded," I ventured to say. "It can't help that, you know."

"It is all wrong," said Dalrymple. "The entire gadget is defective. Look at France, look at
America, look at Germany and Russia and the Jugo-Slavs."

It was rather breathless work looking at all these nations and peoples, but I did my best.
Dalrymple is particularly strong when it is a question of the Jugo-Slavs, and he always gave
me the idea that he spent his Saturday afternoons enunciating chatty pleasantries in Trafalgar
Square and on Tower Hill.

But--you might just see the finish--Dalrymple was not doing anything of the sort the afternoon
that I was out house-hunting. Yes, it is true. You will scarcely credit the fact that I found
any difficulty in tracking down an eligible villa, but that is the case.

The quest took me to a pleasant semi-rural neighbourhood where there was room for gardens with
the borders edged with the nice soft yellow-tinted box, and rose walks, and dainty little arbours,
and fandangled appurtenances which amateur gardeners love with perfect justification.

And there was Dalrymple. I won't deceive you. I recognised him on the other side of a low oak
fence. He was wearing an old hat of the texture of the bit of headgear which the man who impersonates
Napoleon at the music-hall doubles up and plays tricks with, only Dalrymple's hat had obviously
been white and was now going green and other colours with wear and tear.

And wherever Dalrymple went a small cherub in a holland frock went too. The cherub would be
about five. Dalrymple was fashioning a hen-coop out of two or three soap-boxes. Both he and
the cherub ceased activities when I hailed and approached; and I stopped to dinner. Dalrymple
told me he rather fancied he could wangle me a bungalow.

"I know the agent chap," he said, as we sampled a very pleasant glass of port. "Of course they
want to keep it fairly dark or we should be swamped. I have taken a lot of trouble myself,
you know, and am just starting gardening lectures at our club."

So he went on--the house, his new roses, the hens, the jam his wife made, the idea he had for
a winter garden in the interests of his wife's mother, who could then take the air in her Bath-chair.

"But," I said, "you want to sweep everything away. You aim at sending villages like this to
pot--your own word, you remember. And then there are the Jugo-Slavs--"

Dalrymple winked and handed me the cigars.

I fancy he is a fraud.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "AEROPLANE FLIGHT TO INDIA.

    "PREPARATIONS FOR DECEPTION IN DELHI."--Englishman
    (Calcutta).

But the aviators, in order that there might be no doubt about their bona fides, wisely landed
at Karachi.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY SERGEANT-MAJOR-DOMO.

  When WILSON has abolished War
  And grim Bellona claims no more
    The greatest of her sons,
  What job has Peace to offer thee
  That shall fulfil thy destiny,
    O Sergeant-Major Buns?

  Shall thy great voice, at whose behests
  Trembled a hundred martial breasts,
    Be heard without a smile
  Urging astonished Cingalese
  To tap the tapering rubber trees
    Upon their distant isle?

  Shall thy dread presence clothed in tweed
  Be seen, O Buns, without the meed
    Of some regretful sigh,
  Fresh from the triumphs of the trench
  Upon the Opposition Bench
    Begging the SPEAKER'S eye?

  Nay, rather let thy mighty mind
  At length its true vocation find
    In the domestic sphere;
  The trivial round, the common task
  Shall furnish all thou needst to ask--
    There shalt thou earn thy beer.

  Yes, thou shalt play a worthy rôle,
  Thou great unconquerable soul,
    Within my humble flat;
  For when thy voice shall thunder, "Where
  Is master's cream?" what maid shall dare
    Invoke the mystic cat?

  And what or volatile Miss Gripps?
  The weekly notice on her lips
    Shall wither at thy look.
  And still one triumph waits for thee--
  And, oh! may I be there to see--
    When thou shalt face my cook!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "DATE FIXED FOR HANGING RETAILERS."--Provincial Paper.

And some of them richly deserve it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The League will reconsider traety obligations from time
    to time.

    "The League will reconsider traeyt obligations from time
    to time."--Evening Paper.

And then the printer gave it up.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Handley Page, with two Rolls-Royce engines, was the
    first and only machine to fly to India, and was the first
    and only machine to fly to India, and is the second to fly
    to India."--Daily Paper.

Not the third and only, as for the moment we were tempted to believe.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Young Educated Girl Pupil Wanted, help animals; live
    clergyman's family; pocket-money."--Newcastle Journal.

We are glad to hear of a really live clergyman. So many parsons nowadays are accused of being
dead-alive.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DAILY AND MAILY.

Mr. Daily burst into the room, slamming the door behind him, to find Mr. Maily seated before
the fire.

"Maily, you're not getting things done," he shouted as he walked swiftly up and down the Turkey
carpet.

"Only buttoning my spat, Daily," said Mr. Maily. Then he too, springing from his chair, walked
rapidly to and fro. But whereas Mr. Daily chose the route between the window and the motto,
"Do something else NOW!" Mr. Maily took the line between the fireplace and "Keep on keeping
on!" for they seldom felt compelled to stick to one direction.

"Maily, I'm worried," exclaimed Mr. Daily in passing. "Things seem to be easing down. Even
you are not so nimble as you were. This silence of the public troubles me--haven't been saying
things about us for a long time."

"Some people even praise us," remarked Mr. Maily, disgust mingling with the perspiration on
his face.

"We'll be damned if we put up with praise," Mr. Daily declared.

"We shall. We'd give praise if they'd damn us," said Mr. Maily.

"Never be funny, Maily, if you can help it," warned Mr. Daily. Then he remarked wistfully,
"If they'd only burn us again!"

"Couldn't we go for the Archbishop of CANTERBURY?" asked Mr. Maily. "To be burnt during morning
service in a cathedral--"

"No, these church-people couldn't be roused, Maily. Too much dillydally about them. They'd
never fall to it."

Mr. Daily jabbed his thumb against a white bell-push, and a clerk appeared. "Got enough work
to do?" asked Mr. Daily.

"And then some," said the clerk.

"Well, get on with it," shouted Mr. Daily impatiently, and pressed a red bell-push.

"Plenty doing?" he asked the compositor who appeared.

"Twice that," said the compositor.

"Then go to it," barked Mr. Daily. Turning to behold Mr. Maily mopping his brow, he cried,
"For heaven's sake don't let anybody see you standing still, Maily."

"I was only thinking," said Mr. Maily.

"Whatever for?" asked Mr. Daily.

"Do you suppose--"

"Suppose nothing. Know!"

"How would it be to--to denounce beer?" asked Mr. Maily.

"Gad, but you've still got pluck," said Mr. Daily with something like admiration. "They'd burn
us right enough. But there is such a thing as too much pluck, Maily. Think again, if you must
think."

"No," Mr. Daily went on, "I doubt if a satisfactory burning can be worked--it only comes by
accident. Meanwhile, if the public won't talk about us, we must boom ourselves;" and he sprinted
to a yellow bell-push to summon the editor.

"This peace business," said Mr. Daily to him--"Peace must be signed! How's that for a new stunt?
Cut out 'The Soldiers' Paper' and call ourselves 'The Paper that gets Peace.' Get the boys
together, work out a scheme and come and show us in half-an-hour."

"But, Daily, is there any likelihood of peace not being signed?" asked Mr. Maily, when the
editor had gone.

"For goodness' sake, Maily, pull yourself together. Don't you understand that one of the principles
of our job is to back certs?" said Mr. Daily.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO A LEGIONARY.

(MEMBERS OF THE NEW CORPS OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS ARE CALLED LEGIONARIES.)

  Sole hope of this my household, martial maid
    Whom ordered ranks and discipline austere
  Have shaped (I gather) for a braver trade,
    So that respect, not all unmixed with fear,
    Informs my breast as I await you here,
  Your title, with its stern Cæsarian touch,
  Does, to be frank, alarm me very much.

  Come not, I pray you, to my casual home
    (Where moulting cats usurp the best arm-chair)
  With the harsh practices of Ancient Rome,
    The brow severe, the you-be-careful air
    Which (on the film) all legionaries wear;
  My dream is just a regulated ease;
  Rules, if you like, but not too stringent, please.

  Come not with rude awakenings, nor request
    That I at stated hours must rise and feed;
  I like my morning slumber much the best
    And hate a life by drastic laws decreed
    (I'm not a Persian born, nor yet a Mede);
  No, but with step demure and tactful come,
  And if soft music greet you, oh, be dumb!

  In careless comfort let my days be spent!
    And, maiden, mutual happiness shall reign;
  The crash of crockery I'll not lament
    Nor (when I fain would sing) will I complain
    Though you should raise the far from dulcet strain;
  But with a sweet content I'll bless the day
  My legionary came, and came to stay.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "LOST, large retriever dog, flat-coated; when pleased or
    expectant he grins, showing all his teeth; information leading
    to his recovery will be rewarded."--Glasgow Herald.

It is supposed that he has been studying the portraits of "Variety" ladies in the illustrated
papers.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "He must, said Mr. Thomas, urge men to recognise that, in the
    present state of the country, it was imperative that soppages
    should be avoided."--Liverpool Paper.

Excellent advice; but in the present state of the country, unless one wears waders, extremely
difficult to follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WANTED.--A suitable match for a well-connected and refined
    Suri widower of 37; healthy and of good moral character;
    monthly income about 500 rupees. Possesses property. Late
    wife died last week."--Indian Paper.

It is a sign of the truly moral character to be definitely off with the old love before you
are on with the new.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The five main points in the Prime Minister's programme are:
    (1) Punch the ex-Kaiser."--Sunday Times (Johannesburg).

The other four don't matter, but we wish to take the earliest opportunity of denying this totally
unfounded suggestion. Mr. Punch is not the ex-Kaiser, and never was.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LITTLE FAVOUR.

Maisie was terribly upset when she lost her gold curb bangle (with padlock attached) between
the hospital and the canteen. The first I knew of it was seeing a handbill offering two pounds'
reward on our front gate, with the ink still damp, when I came home to lunch. There was a similar
bill blowing down the road. My wife had some more under her arm and she pressed them on me.
"Run round to the shops," she said; "get them put right in the middle of the windows where
they'll catch everybody's eye."

The first shop I entered was a hosier's. Since drilling in the V.T.O. I have acquired rather
a distinguished bearing. Shopkeepers invariably treat me with attention. The hosier hurried
forward, obviously anticipating a princely order for tweeds at war prices. I hadn't the courage
to buy nothing. I selected the nearest thing on the counter, a futurist necktie at two-and-six-three,
and, as I was leaving the shop, turned back carelessly. "By the by, would you mind putting
this bill in your window?" I said.

His lip curled. "This is a high-class business. We make it a rule--no bills," he said.

At the butcher's next door there were several customers. They all gave way to me. I made purchases
worthy of my appearance and carriage, half an ox tail and some chitterlings. Then I proffered
a handbill. The man in blue accepted it and, before I had opened my lips, returned it to me
wrapped round the ox tail. I was too taken aback to explain. In fact, when he held out his
hand, I mechanically gave him another bill for the chitterlings.

At the next shop, a fancy draper's, I acted with cunning. In the centre of the window, on a
raised background of silver paper, was displayed a wreath of orange-blossom veiled with tulle.
I bought it. The young ladies were hysterical. "May I ask permission to put this little handbill
in its place?" I said. They appealed to the shopwalker. "In the absence of the head of the
firm I cannot see my way to accede to your request," he said. "At present he is on the Rhine.
On his demobilisation I will place the matter before him if you will leave the bill in my hands."
I left it.

I skipped a gramophone emporium and a baby-linen shop and entered a fishmonger's. Here I adopted
tactics of absolute candour. "Look here," I said, "I haven't come to buy anything. I don't
want any fish, flesh or red-herring, but I should be no end grateful if you would stick this
bill up for me somewhere."

"Certainly, Sir, as many as you like," said the proprietor heartily.

Gleefully I gave him two. One he stuck on a hook on top of a couple of ducks, and it flopped
over face downwards on their breasts. The other he laid in the middle of the marble counter,
and the next moment his assistant came along and slapped an outsize halibut on it.

I went into a jeweller's next and purchased a gold curb bangle (with padlock attached).

"You clever old thing," said Maisie; "you'd never tell one from the other, would you? Mine's
a tiny bit heavier, don't you think? I've just found it in the soap-dish. I'll change this
for a filigree pendant. All my life I've longed for a filigree pendant"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "For 85 tons of blackberries, gathered last autumn,
    Northamptonshire elementary school children were paid
    £2,380, 3d. a lb."--Daily Paper.

The young profiteers!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Splendid imitation almond paste for cakes can be made
    as follows: Take four ounces of breadcrumbs, one small
    teaspoonful of almond essence, four ounces of soft
    white sugar, and one well-eaten egg to bind the
    mixture."--Answers.

The difficulty is to get the egg.

       *       *       *       *       *

APRÈS LA GUERRE.

"On ne sait jamais le dessous des cartes," as the perplexing dialect of the aborigines of this
country would put it. William and I, when we used to discuss after-the-war prospects o' nights
in the old days, were more or less resigned to a buckshee year or two of filling shell-holes
up and pulling barbed wire down. Instead of which we all go about the country taking in each
others' education. No one, we gather, will be allowed to go home until he has taken his B.A.
with honours. And after that--But it would be better to begin at the beginning.

It began within ten days of the signing of the armistice, assuming the shape of an official
inquiry from Division, a five-barred document wherein somebody with a talent for confusing
himself (and a great contempt for the Paper Controller) managed to ask every officer the same
question in five different ways. They cancelled each other out after a little examination and
left behind merely a desire to discover whether or not each officer had a job waiting for him
on his return to civil life. William and I took the thing at a gallop, stuck down a succinct
"Yes. Yes, No, No. Yes," subscribed our signatures and returned the documents--or so William
proposed to do--"for your information and necessary inaction."

"They're getting deuced heavy about these jobs, aren't they?" observed William a day or two
later. "The Old Man wants to see us all at orderly-room for a private interview--he's got to
make a return showing whether his officers have got jobs waiting for them, if not, why not,
and please indent at once to make good any deficiencies. Hullo, what's this?"

It happened to be William's mail for the day--one large official-looking envelope. It turned
out to be a document from his old unit (he had entered the Army from an O.T.C.), headed, "Resettlement
and Employment of ex-Officers: Preliminary Enquiry." It was a formidable catechism, ranging
from inquiries as to whether William had a job ready for him to a request for a signed statement
from his C.O. certifying that he was a sober, diligent and obliging lad and had generally given
every satisfaction in his present situation. In case he hadn't a job or wanted another one
there were convenient spaces in which to confess the whole of his past--whether he had a liking
for animals or the Colonies, mechanical aptitude (if any), down to full list of birth-marks
and next-of-kin. William thrust the thing hastily into the stove. But I observed that there
was a cloud over him for the rest of the day.

However, we both of us satisfied the examiner at the orderly-room, though the renewed evidence
of a determined conspiracy to find work for him left William a trifle more thoughtful than
his wont. Shades of the prison-house began to close about our growing joy, "These 'ere jobs,"
remarked William, "are going to take a bit of dodging, dearie. Looks to me as though you might
cop out for anything from a tram-driver to Lord Chief. Wish people wouldn't be so infernally
obliging. And, anyway, what is this--an Army or a Labour Exchange?"

As the days wore on the strain became more and more intense. William's old school had contrived
an association which begged to be allowed to do anything in the world for him except leave
him for a single day in idleness. And what time the Army was not making inquiries about his
own civil intentions and abilities it was insisting on his extracting the same information
from the platoons. William grew haggard and morose. He began looking under his bed every night
for prospective employers and took to sleeping with a loaded Webley under his pillow for fear
of being kidnapped by a registry office. He slept in uneasy snatches, and when he did doze
off was tormented by hideous nightmares.

In one of them he dreamt he was on leave and walking through the City. At every doorway he
had to run the gauntlet of lithe and implacable managing directors, all ready to pounce on
him, drag him within and chain him permanently to a stool--with the complete approval of the
Army Council. In another he was appearing before a tribunal of employers as a conscientious
objector to all forms of work.

The last straw was when the Brigadier caused it to be made known that if any officer was particularly
unsettled about his future he might be granted a personal interview and it would be seen what
could be done for him. William sat down with the air of one who has established a thumping
bridgehead over his Rubicon and wrote to the Brigadier direct and as follows:--

"SIR,--I have the honour to hope that this finds you a good deal better than it leaves me at
present. In case you should be in any uncertainty over your prospects on return to half-pay,
I shall be happy to grant you a personal interview at my billet (Sheet 45; G 22a 3.7.) and
see whether anything can be arranged to suit you. I may add that I have a number of excellent
appointments on my books, from knife-boy to traveller to a firm of mineral water manufacturers.
For my own part my immediate future is firmly settled, thank you. For at least three months
after my discharge from the Army I have no intention of taking up any form of work.

"I have the honour to be, Sir,

"YOUR OTHERWISE OBEDIENT SERVANT, ETC."

       *       *       *       *       *

The court-martial was held last Thursday and sentence will be promulgated any day now. Medical
evidence certified William as sane enough to understand the nature of his offence, but as the
War is over it is unlikely that he will be shot at dawn. William himself is confident that
he will be cashiered, a sentence which carries with it automatic and permanent exclusion from
all appointments under the Crown. "That makes a tidy gap in the wire," says William hopefully.
"They won't even be able to make a postman of me. With a bit of luck I'll dodge the unofficial
jobs--I get that holiday after all, old bean."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HUNTING. THE DANGER OF KICKING HORSES."--Times.

Generally the shoe is on the other foot.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Falkirk iron fitters, by an overwhelming majority, have
    opposed the forty-hour week and have agreed to a forty-four
    hour week."--Provincial Paper.

Bravo, Falkirk!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The announcement of the augmentation of the British beet
    in the Mediterranean appeared exclusively in the 'Sunday
    Express.'"--Daily Express.

It doesn't seem anything to boast about.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WANTED.--On a farm, two capable European young or
    middle-aged girls."--South African Paper.

There are lots of girls answering this description, but the difficulty is that most of them
are too shy to admit it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "M. Clemenceau ... speaks English with rare perfection,
    having spent years in the United States."--Daily Paper.

    "M. Clemenceau, speaking in excellent English, said
    'Yes.'"--Sunday Paper.

What he really said, of course, was "Yep."

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTION AND ANSWER.

  "What are you, Sir?" the Counsel roared.
  The timid witness said, "My Lord,
  A Season-ticket holder I
  Where London's southern suburbs lie."
  "Tut, tut," his Lordship made demur,
  "He meant what is your business, Sir."
  The witness sighed and shook his head,
  "I get no time for that," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER CRISIS.

(BY A FUTILITY RABBIT KEEPER.)

  There is a rabbit in the pansy bed,
    There is a burrow underneath the wall,
  There is a rabbit everywhere you tread,
    To-day I heard a rabbit in the hall,
      The same that sits at evening in my shoes
      And sings his usefulness, or simply chews;
      There is no corner sacred to the Muse--
    And how shall man demobilise them all?

  Far back, when England was devoid of food,
    Men bade me breed the coney and I bought
  Timber and wire-entanglements and hewed
    Fair roomy palaces of pine-wood wrought,
      Wherein our first-bought sedulously gnawed
      And every night escaped and ran abroad;
      Yet she was lovely and we named her Maud,
    And if she ate the primulas, 'twas nought.

  The months rolled onward and she multiplied,
    And all her progeny resembled her;
  They ate the daffodils; they seldom died;
    And no one thought of them as provender;
      The children fed them weekly for a treat,
      And my wife said, "The little things--how sweet!
      If you imagine I can ever eat
    A rabbit called Persephone, you err."

  Yet famine might have hardened that proud breast,
    Only that victory removed the threat;
  And now, if e'er I venture to suggest
    That it is time that some of them were ate,
      That Maud is pivotal and costing pounds,
      And how the garden is a mass of mounds,
      She answers me, on military grounds,
    "Peace is not come. We cannot eat them yet."

  So I shall steal to yon allotment space
    With a large bag of rabbits, and unseen
  Demobilise them, and in that fair place
    They all shall browse on cauliflower and bean;
      There Smith will come on Saturday, and think
      That it is shell-shock or disease or drink;
      But Maud shall dwell for ever there and sink
    A world of burrows in Laburnum Green. A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SECRETS OF THE PEACE CONFERENCE.

    "The proceedings yesterday afternoon began punctually at three
    o'clock. Lord Robert Cecil sat with the British delegates. M.
    Léon Bourgeois sat among the French delegates."--Manchester
    Guardian.

And not, as might have been thought, vice versâ.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A thoroughly capable and energetic man wanted, who will look
    after a family concern: Must understand management of 25 acre
    farm with 10 cows, about four acres may have to be broken up.
    Must be an experienced brewer, capable of mashing 10 times
    a week, and taking entire charge of brewing operations with
    assistance of unskilled labour. Must be conversant with
    licensing laws and requirements, also present restrictions
    as applying to brewing; thoroughly understand and superintend
    wines and spirits department, direct repairs, capable buyer,
    general manager, organiser and foreman. Must be thorough
    accountant, capable of directing office and branch work,
    conversant with income-tax and excess profits duty practice.
    Able to drive, or willing to learn a 4-ton Commer lorry,
    must be motor-cyclist to visit branches, and manage
    public-houses. Absolutely essential to understand and
    drive oil engines.--Further particulars apply ---- and
    Sons."--Daily Paper.

What we chiefly miss is any information as to how the man is to fill up his spare time.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "ITALIAN SPELLING.

    "There are to be streets in Athens named after President Wilson
    and after Mr. Lloyd George. In the 'Patris,' an Athens paper,
    we read that 'Wilson' is spelt 'Ouilson,' whilst 'George' is
    Tzortz,' 'Bonar Law' is 'Mponar Lo.'"--Birmingham Mail.

We bow to our contemporary's erudition, but we confess it all looks Greek to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL THE TALENTS.

Now that hostilities are at an end it is thought by many intelligent young subalterns that
a little variety might well be introduced into Army routine.

For instance, at a General's Inspection why should not Officers' duties be allotted after this
fashion?--

The Commanding Officer will bind up the Second-in-Command with a length of red tape, showing
that no escape is possible from this form of entanglement.

The Adjutant will give an exhibition of paper manipulation, using various Army Forms for this
purpose.

The Assistant-Adjutant will demonstrate how a morning's work may be made of the changing of
a pen-nib, while still creating an impression of devoted industry.

The Messing Officer will fry a fillet of sole by means of haybox cookery, and during the process
will publicly skin a ration rabbit in such a way that not the slightest depreciation is caused
in the value of 2½d. attached to a rabbit-skin.

The Officer i/e Demobilisation will demobilise you while you wait (provided you can wait long
enough).

The Quartermaster will make a model of Hampton Court Maze, illustrative of the intricacies
of his department, taking care that his model appropriately differs from the original in having
no means of exit.

The Medical Officer will demonstrate how the huge national accumulation of No. 9 pills may
be adapted to civilian purposes by using the pill (a) as a fertiliser for the Officers' tennis
lawn, and (b) as a destroyer of the superfluous grass bordering thereon.

Company Commanders will collaborate in a display of standing on their own feet without the
assistance of their respective Company Sergeant-Majors. (N.B.--Absolute silence is requested
during this very delicate performance.)

The Junior Subaltern will give an exhibition of stunt saluting.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MY DRESS SUIT.

  Old friend, well met! I've longed for this reunion;
    You've been the lodestar of this storm-tossed ship
  In those long hours which poets call Communion
    With one's own Soul, and common folk the Pip.

  The foe might rage, the Brigadier might bluster.
    Was I down-hearted? No! My spirit soared
  And dreamt of you and me with blended lustre
    Gracing some well-spread and convivial board.

  And what if now you fit askew where erstwhile
    Fair lines bewrayed a figure not too svelte?
  What if your shoulder-seams are like to burst, while
    A sad hiatus shows beneath the belt?

  As April fills the buds to shapely beauty,
    As cooks fill Robert with plum-cake and tea,
  So, it may be, a diet rich and fruity
    May fill the gap that sunders you from me.

  And if it fail, as I'm a, living sinner
    I'll save you from the gaze of scornful eyes.
  They say that Bolsheviks don't dress for dinner;
    I'll off to Petrograd and Bolshevize.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLEA FOR PROPORTION.

    [Its contemporaries having told us all about Mr. Lloyd
    George's hat and how President Wilson ate a banana, The
    Daily Express recently went one better with the headline,
    "Mr. Balfour joins a Tennis Club," as the subheading of its
    "Peace Conference Notes."]

  Has it always been this way, I wonder,
    Did editors always display
  The same disposition to blunder
    O'er the weight of the news of the day?
  When simpler was war and directer,
    Was Athens accustomed to see
  In the sheets of its Argus how Hector
    Had bloaters for tea?

  If so--or indeed if it's not so--
    One cannot but gently deplore
  That the custom of chronicling rot so
    Has not been expunged by the War.
  When the world with its horrors still stunned is
    And waits for vast hopes to come true,
  What boots it if delegates' undies
    Are scarlet or blue?

  All facts of those delegates' labours
    I'm ready to read with a zest,
  And they must, like myself and my neighbours,
    I know, have their moments of rest;
  I do not begrudge them their pleasures,
    But frankly I don't care a rap
  If the sport that engages their leisure's
    "Up, Jenkins" or "Snap."

  Since the founts of its wisdom present us
    Each morning with gems of this kind,
  Such matters must strike as momentous
    The news-editorial mind;
  'Tis time this delusion was done with,
    High time that some voice made it clear
  We don't want those fountains to run with
    Such very small beer.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A married man, aged 34 years, collided with the mail train
    when riding a motorcycle into Hawera on Friday. His right
    arm, collarbone, and blue hospital uniforms on Thursday
    morning."--New Zealand Herald.

We rather like this telescopic style of reporting. It leaves something to the reader's imagination.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To Parents and Pawnbrokers.--Anyone assisting to remove the
    Charity Boots, marked B., from the Children's Feet, which
    are the property of Mr. J. B---- and his Supporters, WILL BE
    PROSECUTED."--Irish Paper.

A distressful country, indeed, where the children do not own their own feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINCHESTER'S OPPORTUNITY.

