ALFRED DE VIGNY

The reputation of Alfred de Vigny has endured extraordinary vicissitudes in France.  First
he was lauded as the precursor of French romantic poetry and stately prose; then he sank in
semi-oblivion, became the curiosity of criticism, died in retirement, and was neglected for
a long time, until the last ten years or so produced a marked revolution of taste in France.
The supremacy of Victor Hugo has been, if not questioned, at least mitigated; other poets have
recovered from their obscurity.  Lamartine shines now like a lamp relighted; and the pure,
brilliant, and profoundly original genius of Alfred de Vigny now takes, for the first time,
its proper place as one of the main illuminating forces of the nineteenth century.

It was not until one hundred years after this poet's birth that it became clearly recognized
that he is one of the most important of all the great writers of France, and he is distinguished
not only in fiction, but also in poetry and the drama.  He is a follower of Andre Chenier,
Lamartine, and Victor Hugo, a lyric sun, a philosophic poet, later, perhaps in consequence
of the Revolution of 1830, becoming a "Symbolist."  He has been held to occupy a middle ground
between De Musset and Chenier, but he has also something suggestive of Madame de Stael, and,
artistically, he has much in common with Chateaubriand, though he is more coldly impersonal
and probably much more sincere in his philosophy.  If Sainte- Beuve, however, calls the poet
in his Nouveaux Lundis a "beautiful angel, who has been drinking vinegar," then the modern
reader needs a strong caution against malice and raillery, if not jealousy and perfidy, although
the article on De Vigny abounds otherwise with excessive critical cleverness.

At times, indeed, under the cruel deceptions of love, he seemed to lose faith in his idealism;
his pessimism, nevertheless, always remained noble, restrained, sympathetic, manifesting itself
not in appeals for condolence, but in pitying care for all who were near and dear to him. Yet
his lofty prose and poetry, interpenetrated with the stern despair of pessimistic idealism,
will always be unintelligible to the many.  As a poet, De Vigny appeals to the chosen few alone.
In his dramas his genius is more emancipated from himself, in his novels most of all.  It is
by these that he is most widely known, and by these that he exercised the greatest influence
on the literary life of his generation.

 Alfred-Victor, Count de Vigny, was born in Loches, Touraine, March 27,
1797.  His father was an army officer, wounded in the Seven Years' War.
Alfred, after having been well educated, also selected a military career
and received a commission in the "Mousquetaires Rouges," in 1814, when
barely seventeen.  He served until 1827, "twelve long years of peace,"
then resigned.  Already in 1822 appeared a volume of 'Poemes' which was
hardly noticed, although containing poetry since become important to the
evolution of French verse: 'La Neige, le Coy, le Deluge, Elva, la
Frigate', etc., again collected in 'Poemes antiques et modernes' (1826).
Other poems were published after his death in 'Les Destinies' (1864).

Under the influence of Walter Scott, he wrote a historical romance in 1826, 'Cinq-Mars, ou
une Conjuration sans Louis XIII'.  It met with the most brilliant and decided success and was
crowned by the Academy.  Cinq- Mars will always be remembered as the earliest romantic novel
in France and the greatest and most dramatic picture of Richelieu now extant.  De Vigny was
a convinced Anglophile, well acquainted with the writings of Shakespeare and Milton, Byron,
Wordsworth, Shelley, Matthew Arnold, and Leopardi.  He also married an English lady in 1825--Lydia
Bunbury.

Other prose works are 'Stello' (1832), in the manner of Sterne and Diderot, and 'Servitude
et Grandeur militaire' (1835), the language of which is as caustic as that of Merimee.  As
a dramatist, De Vigny produced a translation of 'Othello--Le More de Venice' (1829); also 
'La Marechale d'Ancre' (1832); both met with moderate success only.  But a decided "hit" was
'Chatterton' (1835), an adaption from his prose-work 'Stello, ou les Diables bleus'; it at
once established his reputation on the stage; the applause was most prodigious, and in the
annals of the French theatre can only be compared with that of 'Le Cid'.  It was a great victory
for the Romantic School, and the type of Chatterton, the slighted poet, "the marvellous boy,
the sleepless soul that perished in his pride," became contagious as erstwhile did the type
of Werther.

For twenty years before his death Alfred de Vigny wrote nothing.  He lived in retirement, almost
a recluse, in La Charente, rarely visiting Paris.  Admitted into L'Academie Francaise in 1845,
he describes in his 'Journal d'un Poete' his academic visits and the reception held out to
him by the members of L'Institut.  This work appeared posthumously in 1867.

He died in Paris, September 17, 1863.

                                   CHARLES DE MAZADE
                                de l'Academie Francaise.

PREFACE

Considering Alfred de Vigny first as a writer, it is evident that he wished the public to regard
him as different from the other romanticists of his day; in fact, in many respects, his method
presents a striking contrast to theirs.  To their brilliant facility, their prodigious abundance,
and the dazzling luxury of color in their pictures of life he opposes a style always simple,
pure, clear, with delicacy of touch, careful drawing of character, correct locution, and absolute
chastity. Yet, even though he had this marked regard for purity in literary style, no writer
had more dislike of mere pedantry.  His high ideal in literary art and his self-respect inspired
him with an invincible repugnance toward the artificialities of style of that period, which
the romanticists--above all, Chateaubriand, their master--had so much abused.

Every one knows of the singular declaration made by Chateaubriand to Joubert, while relating
the details of a nocturnal voyage: "The moon shone upon me in a slender crescent, and that
prevented me from writing an untruth, for I feel sure that had not the moon been there I should
have said in my letter that it was shining, and then you would have convicted me of an error
in my almanac!"

This habit of sacrificing truth and exactitude of impression, for the sake of producing a harmonious
phrase or a picturesque suggestion, disgusted Alfred de Vigny.  "The worst thing about writers
is that they care very little whether what they write is true, so long as they only write,"
we read on one page of his Journal.  He adds, "They should seek words only in their own consciences."
On another page he says: "The most serious lack in literary work is sincerity.  Perceiving
clearly that the combination of technical labor and research for effective expression, in producing
literary work, often leads us to a paradox, I have resolved to sacrifice all to conviction
and truth, so that this precious element of sincerity, complete and profound, shall dominate
my books and give to them the sacred character which the divine presence of truth always gives."

Besides sincerity, De Vigny possessed, in a high degree, a gift which was not less rare in
that age--good taste.  He had taste in the art of writing, a fine literary tact, a sense of
proportion, a perception of delicate shades of expression, an instinct that told him what to
say and what to suppress, to insinuate, or to be left to the understanding.  Even in his innovations
in form, in his boldness of style, he showed a rare discretion; never did he do violence to
the genius of the French language, and one may apply to him without reserve the eulogy that
Quintilian pronounced upon Horace: 'Verbis felicissime audax'.

He cherished also a fixed principle that art implied selection.  He was neither idealist nor
realist, in the exclusive and opposing sense in which we understand these terms; he recommended
a scrupulous observance of nature, and that every writer should draw as close to it as possible,
but only in order to interpret it, to reveal it with a true feeling, yet without a too intimate
analysis, and that no one should attempt to portray it exactly or servilely copy it.  "Of what
use is art," he says, "if it is only a reduplication of existence?  We see around us only too
much of the sadness and disenchantment of reality."  The three novels that compose the volume
'Servitude et Grandeur militaire' are, in this respect, models of romantic composition that
never will be surpassed, bearing witness to the truth of the formula followed by De Vigny in
all his literary work: "Art is the chosen truth."

If, as a versifier, Alfred de Vigny does not equal the great poets of his time, if they are
his superiors in distinction and brilliancy, in richness of vocabulary, freedom of movement,
and variety of rhythm, the cause is to be ascribed less to any lack of poetic genius than to
the nature of his inspiration, even to the laws of poesy, and to the secret and irreducible
antinomy that exists between art and thought.  When, for example, Theophile Gautier reproached
him with being too little impressed with the exigencies of rhyme, his criticism was not well
grounded, for richness of rhyme, though indispensable in works of descriptive imagination,
has no 'raison d'etre' in poems dominated by sentiment and thought.  But, having said that,
we must recognize in his poetry an element, serious, strong, and impressive, characteristic
of itself alone, and admire, in the strophes of 'Mozse', in the imprecations of 'Samson', and
in the 'Destinees', the majestic simplicity of the most beautiful Hebraic verse.

Moreover, the true originality of De Vigny does not lie in the manner of composition; it was
primarily in the role of precursor that he played his part on the stage of literature.  Let
us imagine ourselves at the period about the beginning of the year 1822.  Of the three poets
who, in making their literary debuts, had just published the 'Meditations, Poemes antiques
et modernes, and Odes', only one had, at that time, the instinct of renewal in the spirit of
French poesy, and a sense of the manner in which this must be accomplished; and that one was
not Lamartine, and certainly it was not Victor Hugo.

Sainte-Beuve has said, with authority, that in Lamartine there is something suggestive of Millevoye,
of Voltaire (he of the charming epistles), and of Fontanes; and Victor Hugo wrote with very
little variation from the technical form of his predecessors.  "But with Alfred de Vigny,"
he says, "we seek in vain for a resemblance to any French poetry preceding his work.  For example,
where can we find anything resembling 'Moise, Eloa, Doloeida'?  Where did he find his inspiration
for style and composition in these poems?  If the poets of the Pleiades of the Restoration
seem to have found their inspiration within themselves, showing no trace of connection with
the literature of the past, thus throwing into confusion old habits of taste and of routine,
certain it is that among them Alfred de Vigny should be ranked first."

Even in the collection that bears the date of 1822, some years before the future author of
Legende des Siecles had taken up romanticism, Alfred de Vigny had already conceived the idea
of setting forth, in a series of little epics, the migrations of the human soul throughout
the ages.  "One feels," said he in his Preface, "a keen intellectual delight in transporting
one's self, by mere force of thought, to a period of antiquity; it resembles the pleasure an
old man feels in recalling first his early youth, and then the whole course of his life.  In
the age of simplicity, poetry was devoted entirely to the beauties of the physical forms of
nature and of man; each step in advance that it has made since then toward our own day of civilization
and of sadness, seems to have blended it more and more with our arts, and even with the sufferings
of our souls.  At present, with all the serious solemnity of Religion and of Destiny, it lends
to them their chief beauty.  Never discouraged, Poetry has followed Man in his long journey
through the ages, like a sweet and beautiful companion.  I have attempted, in our language,
to show some of her beauties, in following her progress toward the present day."

The arrangement of the poems announced in this Preface is tripartite, like that of the 'Legende
des Siecles: Poemes antiques, poemes judaiques, poemes modernes.--Livre mystique, livre antique,
livre moderne'.  But the name of precursor would be a vain title if all that were necessary
to merit it was the fact that one had been the first to perceive a new path to literary glory,
to salute it from a distance, yet never attempt to make a nearer approach.

In one direction at least, Alfred de Vigny was a true innovator, in the broadest and most meritorious
sense of the word: he was the creator of philosophic poetry in France.  Until Jocelyn appeared,
in 1836, the form of poetic expression was confined chiefly to the ode, the ballad, and the
elegy; and no poet, with the exception of the author of 'Moise' and 'Eloa', ever dreamed that
abstract ideas and themes dealing with the moralities could be expressed in the melody of verse.

To this priority, of which he knew the full value, Alfred de Vigny laid insistent claim.  "The
only merit," he says in one of his prefaces, "that any one ever has disputed with me in this
sort of composition is the honor of having promulgated in France all works of the kind in which
philosophic thought is presented in either epic or dramatic form."

But it was not alone priority in the sense of time that gave him right of way over his contemporaries;
he was the most distinguished representative of poetic philosophy of his generation.  If the
phrases of Lamartine seem richer, if his flight is more majestic, De Vigny's range is surer
and more powerful.  While the philosophy of the creator of 'Les Harmonies' is uncertain and
inconsistent, that of the poet of 'Les Destinees' is strong and substantial, for the reason
that the former inspires more sentiment than ideas, while the latter, soaring far above the
narrow sphere of personal emotion, writes of everything that occupies the intellect of man.

Thus, by his vigor and breadth of thought, by his profound understanding of life, by the intensity
of his dreams, Alfred de Vigny is superior to Victor Hugo, whose genius was quite different,
in his power to portray picturesque scenes, in his remarkable fecundity of imagination, and
in his sovereign mastery of technique.

But nowhere in De Vigny's work is that superiority of poetic thought so clearly shown as in
those productions wherein the point of departure was farthest from the domain of intellect,
and better than any other has he understood that truth proclaimed by Hegel: "The passions of
the soul and the affections of the heart are matter for poetic expression only in so far as
they are general, solid, and eternal."

De Vigny was also the only one among our poets that had a lofty ideal of woman and of love.
And in order to convince one's self of this it is sufficient to reread successively the four
great love-poems of that period: 'Le Lac, La Tristesse d'Olympio, Le Souvenir, and La Colere
de Samson'.

Lamartine's conception of love was a sort of mild ecstasy, the sacred rapture in which the
senses play no part, and noble emotions that cause neither trouble nor remorse.  He ever regarded
love as a kind of sublime and passionate religion, of which 'Le Lac' was the most beautiful
hymn, but in which the image of woman is so vague that she almost seems to be absent.

On the other hand, what is 'La Tristesse d'Olympio' if not an admirable but common poetic rapture,
a magnificent summary of the sufferings of the heart--a bit of lyric writing equal to the most
beautiful canzoni of the Italian masters, but wherein we find no idea of love, because all
is artificial and studied; no cry from the soul is heard,--no trace of passion appears.

After another fashion the same criticism applies to Le Souvenir; it was written under a stress
of emotion resulting from too recent events; and the imagination of the author, subservient
to a memory relentlessly faithful, as is often the case with those to whom passion is the chief
principle of inspiration, was far from fulfilling the duties of his high vocation, which is
to purify the passions of the poet from individual and accidental characteristics in order
to leave unhampered whatever his work may contain that is powerful and imperishable.

Alfred de Vigny alone, of the poets of his day, in his 'Colere de Samson', has risen to a just
appreciation of woman and of love; his ideal is grand and tragic, it is true, and reminds one
of that gloomy passage in Ecclesiastes which says: "Woman is more bitter than death, and her
arms are like chains."

It is by this character of universality, of which all his writings show striking evidence,
that Alfred de Vigny is assured of immortality.  A heedless generation neglected him because
it preferred to seek subjects in strong contrast to life of its own time.  But that which was
not appreciated by his contemporaries will be welcomed by posterity.  And when, in French literature,
there shall remain of true romanticism only a slight trace and the memory of a few great names,
the author of the 'Destinees' will still find an echo in all hearts.

No writer, no matter how gifted, immortalizes himself unless he has crystallized into expressive
and original phrase the eternal sentiments and yearnings of the human heart.  "A man does not
deserve the name of poet unless he can express personal feeling and emotion, and only that
man is worthy to be called a poet who knows how to assimilate the varied emotions of mankind."
If this fine phrase of Goethe's is true, if true poetry is only that which implies a mastery
of spiritual things as well as of human emotion, Alfred de Vigny is assuredly one of our greatest
poets, for none so well as he has realized a complete vision of the universe, no one has brought
before the world with more boldness the problem of the soul and that of humanity.  Under the
title of poet he belongs not only to our national literature, but occupies a distinctive place
in the world of intellect, with Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe, among those inspired beings who
transmit throughout succeeding centuries the light of reason and the traditions of the loftiest
poetic thought.

Alfred de Vigny was elected to a chair in the French Academy in 1846 and died at Paris, September
17, 1863.

                                   GASTON BOISSIER
                    Secretaire Perpetuel de l'Academie Francaise.

TRUTH IN ART

The study of social progress is to-day not less needed in literature than is the analysis of
the human heart.  We live in an age of universal investigation, and of exploration of the sources
of all movements. France, for example, loves at the same time history and the drama, because
the one explores the vast destinies of humanity, and the other the individual lot of man. 
These embrace the whole of life.  But it is the province of religion, of philosophy, of pure
poetry only, to go beyond life, beyond time, into eternity.

Of late years (perhaps as a result of our political changes) art has borrowed from history
more than ever.  All of us have our eyes fixed on our chronicles, as though, having reached
manhood while going on toward greater things, we had stopped a moment to cast up the account
of our youth and its errors.  We have had to double the interest by adding to it recollection.

As France has carried farther than other nations this love of facts, and as I had chosen a
recent and well-remembered epoch, it seemed to me that I ought not to imitate those foreigners
who in their pictures barely show in the horizon the men who dominate their history.  I placed
ours in the foreground of the scene; I made them leading actors in this tragedy, wherever I
endeavored to represent the three kinds of ambition by which we are influenced, and with them
the beauty of self-sacrifice to a noble ideal.  A treatise on the fall of the feudal system;
on the position, at home and abroad, of France in the seventeenth century; on foreign alliances;
on the justice of parliaments or of secret commissions, or on accusations of sorcery, would
not perhaps have been read.  But the romance was read.

I do not mean to defend this last form of historical composition, being convinced that the
real greatness of a work lies in the substance of the author's ideas and sentiments, and not
in the literary form in which they are dressed.  The choice of a certain epoch necessitates
a certain treatment--to another epoch it would be unsuitable; these are mere secrets of the
workshop of thought which there is no need of disclosing. What is the use of theorizing as
to wherein lies the charm that moves us? We hear the tones of the harp, but its graceful form
conceals from us its frame of iron.  Nevertheless, since I have been convinced that this book
possesses vitality, I can not help throwing out some reflections on the liberty which the imagination
should employ in weaving into its tapestry all the leading figures of an age, and, to give
more consistency to their acts, in making the reality of fact give way to the idea which each
of them should represent in the eyes of posterity; in short, on the difference which I find
between Truth in art and the True in fact.

Just as we descend into our consciences to judge of actions which our minds can not weigh,
can we not also search in ourselves for the feeling which gives birth to forms of thought,
always vague and cloudy?  We shall find in our troubled hearts, where discord reigns, two needs
which seem at variance, but which merge, as I think, in a common source--the love of the true,
and the love of the fabulous.

On the day when man told the story of his life to man, history was born. Of what use is the
memory of facts, if not to serve as an example of good or of evil?  But the examples which
the slow train of events presents to us are scattered and incomplete.  They lack always a tangible
and visible coherence leading straight on to a moral conclusion.  The acts of the human race
on the world's stage have doubtless a coherent unity, but the meaning of the vast tragedy enacted
will be visible only to the eye of God, until the end, which will reveal it perhaps to the
last man.  All systems of philosophy have sought in vain to explain it, ceaselessly rolling
up their rock, which, never reaching the top, falls back upon them--each raising its frail
structure on the ruins of the others, only to see it fall in its turn.

I think, then, that man, after having satisfied his first longing for facts, wanted something
fuller--some grouping, some adaptation to his capacity and experience, of the links of this
vast chain of events which his sight could not take in.  Thus he hoped to find in the historic
recital examples which might support the moral truths of which he was conscious.  Few single
careers could satisfy this longing, being only incomplete parts of the elusive whole of the
history of the world; one was a quarter, as it were, the other a half of the proof; imagination
did the rest and completed them.  From this, without doubt, sprang the fable. Man created it
thus, because it was not given him to see more than himself and nature, which surrounds him;
but he created it true with a truth all its own.

This Truth, so beautiful, so intellectual, which I feel, I see, and long to define, the name
of which I here venture to distinguish from that of the True, that I may the better make myself
understood, is the soul of all the arts.  It is the selection of the characteristic token in
all the beauties and the grandeurs of the visible True; but it is not the thing itself, it
is something better: it is an ideal combination of its principal forms, a luminous tint made
up of its brightest colors, an intoxicating balm of its purest perfumes, a delicious elixir
of its best juices, a perfect harmony of its sweetest sounds--in short, it is a concentration
of all its good qualities.  For this Truth, and nothing else, should strive those works of
art which are a moral representation of life-dramatic works.  To attain it, the first step
is undoubtedly to learn all that is true in fact of every period, to become deeply imbued with
its general character and with its details; this involves only a cheap tribute of attention,
of patience, and of memory: But then one must fix upon some chosen centre, and group everything
around it; this is the work of imagination, and of that sublime common-sense which is genius
itself.

Of what use were the arts if they were only the reproduction and the imitation of life?  Good
heavens!  we see only too clearly about us the sad and disenchanting reality--the insupportable
lukewarmness of feeble characters, of shallow virtues and vices, of irresolute loves, of tempered
hates, of wavering friendships, of unsettled beliefs, of constancy which has its height and
its depth, of opinions which evaporate.  Let us dream that once upon a time have lived men
stronger and greater, who were more determined for good or for evil; that does us good.  If
the paleness of your True is to follow us into art, we shall close at once the theatre and
the book, to avoid meeting it a second time.  What is wanted of works which revive the ghosts
of human beings is, I repeat, the philosophical spectacle of man deeply wrought upon by the
passions of his character and of his epoch; it is, in short, the artistic Truth of that man
and that epoch, but both raised to a higher and ideal power, which concentrates all their forces.
You recognize this Truth in works of the imagination just as you cry out at the resemblance
of a portrait of which you have never seen the original; for true talent paints life rather
than the living.

To banish finally the scruples on this point of the consciences of some persons, timorous in
literary matters, whom I have seen affected with a personal sorrow on viewing the rashness
with which the imagination sports with the most weighty characters of history, I will hazard
the assertion that, not throughout this work, I dare not say that, but in many of these pages,
and those perhaps not of the least merit, history is a romance of which the people are the
authors.  The human mind, I believe, cares for the True only in the general character of an
epoch.  What it values most of all is the sum total of events and the advance of civilization,
which carries individuals along with it; but, indifferent to details, it cares less to have
them real than noble or, rather, grand and complete.

Examine closely the origin of certain deeds, of certain heroic expressions, which are born
one knows not how; you will see them leap out ready-made from hearsay and the murmurs of the
crowd, without having in themselves more than a shadow of truth, and, nevertheless, they will
remain historical forever.  As if by way of pleasantry, and to put a joke upon posterity, the
public voice invents sublime utterances to mark, during their lives and under their very eyes,
men who, confused, avow themselves as best they may, as not deserving of so much glory--

     [In our time has not a Russian General denied the fire of Moscow,
     which we have made heroic, and which will remain so?  Has not a
     French General denied that utterance on the field of Waterloo which
     will immortalize it?  And if I were not withheld by my respect for a
     sacred event, I might recall that a priest has felt it to be his
     duty to disavow in public a sublime speech which will remain the
     noblest that has ever been pronounced on a scaffold: "Son of Saint
     Louis, rise to heaven!"  When I learned not long ago its real
     author, I was overcome by the destruction of my illusion, but before
     long I was consoled by a thought that does honor to humanity in my
     eyes.  I feel that France has consecrated this speech, because she
     felt the need of reestablishing herself in her own eyes, of blinding
     herself to her awful error, and of believing that then and there an
     honest man was found who dared to speak aloud.]

and as not being able to support so high renown.  In vain; their disclaimers are not received.
Let them cry out, let them write, let them print, let them sign--they are not listened to.
These utterances are inscribed in bronze; the poor fellows remain historical and sublime in
spite of themselves.  And I do not find that all this is done in the ages of barbarism alone;
it is still going on, and it molds the history of yesterday to the taste of public opinion--a
Muse tyrannical and capricious, which preserves the general purport and scorns detail.

Which of you knows not of such transformation?  Do you not see with your own eyes the chrysalis
fact assume by degrees the wings of fiction?  Half formed by the necessities of the time, a
fact is hidden in the ground obscure and incomplete, rough, misshapen, like a block of marble
not yet rough-hewn.  The first who unearth it, and take it in hand, would wish it differently
shaped, and pass it, already a little rounded, into other hands; others polish it as they pass
it along; in a short time it is exhibited transformed into an immortal statue.  We disclaim
it; witnesses who have seen and heard pile refutations upon explanations; the learned investigate,
pore over books, and write.  No one listens to them any more than to the humble heroes who
disown it; the torrent rolls on and bears with it the whole thing under the form which it has
pleased it to give to these individual actions.  What was needed for all this work?  A nothing,
a word; sometimes the caprice of a journalist out of work.  And are we the losers by it?  No.
The adopted fact is always better composed than the real one, and it is even adopted only because
it is better.  The human race feels a need that its destinies should afford it a series of
lessons; more careless than we think of the reality of facts, it strives to perfect the event
in order to give it a great moral significance, feeling sure that the succession of scenes
which it plays upon earth is not a comedy, and that since it advances, it marches toward an
end, of which the explanation must be sought beyond what is visible.

For my part, I acknowledge my gratitude to the voice of the people for this achievement; for
often in the finest life are found strange blemishes and inconsistencies which pain me when
I see them.  If a man seems to me a perfect model of a grand and noble character, and if some
one comes and tells me of a mean trait which disfigures him, I am saddened by it, even though
I do not know him, as by a misfortune which affects me in person; and I could almost wish that
he had died before the change in his character.

Thus, when the Muse (and I give that name to art as a whole, to everything which belongs to
the domain of imagination, almost in the same way as the ancients gave the name of Music to
all education), when the Muse has related, in her impassioned manner, the adventures of a character
whom I know to have lived; and when she reshapes his experiences into conformity with the strongest
idea of vice or virtue which can be conceived of him--filling the gaps, veiling the incongruities
of his life, and giving him that perfect unity of conduct which we like to see represented
even in evil--if, in addition to this, she preserves the only thing essential to the instruction
of the world, the spirit of the epoch, I know no reason why we should be more exacting with
her than with this voice of the people which every day makes every fact undergo so great changes.

The ancients carried this liberty even into history; they wanted to see in it only the general
march, and broad movements of peoples and nations; and on these great movements, brought to
view in courses very distinct and very clear, they placed a few colossal figures--symbols of
noble character and of lofty purpose.

One might almost reckon mathematically that, having undergone the double composition of public
opinion and of the author, their history reaches us at third hand and is thus separated by
two stages from the original fact.

It is because in their eyes history too was a work of art; and in consequence of not having
realized that such is its real nature, the whole Christian world still lacks an historical
monument like those which dominate antiquity and consecrate the memory of its destinies--as
its pyramids, its obelisks, its pylons, and its porticos still dominate the earth which was
known to them, and thereby commemorate the grandeur of antiquity.

If, then, we find everywhere evidence of this inclination to desert the positive, to bring
the ideal even into historic annals, I believe that with greater reason we should be completely
indifferent to historical reality in judging the dramatic works, whether poems, romances, or
tragedies, which borrow from history celebrated characters.  Art ought never to be considered
except in its relations with its ideal beauty. Let it be said that what is true in fact is
secondary merely; it is only an illusion the more with which it adorns itself--one of our prejudices
which it respects.  It can do without it, for the Truth by which it must live is the truth
of observation of human nature, and not authenticity of fact.  The names of the characters
have nothing to do with the matter. The idea is everything; the proper name is only the example
and the proof of the idea.

