She drew a long breath; but, before she dared move from her stand, the sounds of other approaching
feet reached her ears. And soon two more men, evidently on the same search, passed by her,
at different distances to the east, and, like the first one, bent their courses northward.
After waiting till all sound of their receding steps had wholly died away, she again moved
forward, and soon had the satisfaction of finding herself in the road, but a short distance
from the spot where, a few hours before, she and her attendant had been captured. It remained
now to get beyond the tory encampment. Could she be permitted to pass down the mountain, in
the road, but a half mile, she might then consider the danger mostly over, and proceed on to
the tavern in comparative safety. And, though aware that this portion of the way might be scarcely
less dangerous than any she had passed over, yet, tempted by the facility with which it could
be accomplished in the road, she resolved to make the attempt, and accordingly, with a guarded
but rapid step, began to move down the sloping way before her. But she had proceeded but a
short distance, when she was startled by the loud report of firearms in the direction of the
tory encampment, which, as already described, were, just at that moment, being discharged at
the escaping canoe. While pausing in doubt at the meaning of this unexpected outbreak, the
random firing of Woodburn's party which we noted as soon following that of the tories, now
burst from the forest a little before her on the left, and greatly in creased her perplexity.
Suddenly conceiving the idea, from these circumstances, that the tories had been assailed in
their rear, and were now retreating towards her, and this notion being the next moment confirmed
by the glimpses she caught of a dark form emerging from the bushes on the left, whom she mistook
for a foe, she hastily turned and fled, in agitation and alarm, into the opposite forest bordering
the road on the south, having thus approached within a few rods of the very men who were in
search of her, and thus unconsciously eluded their friendly grasp. Though intending soon to
turn her course eastward, so as to come out again into the road at such a point as should place
her beyond any danger of a recapture, yet, urged by her fears lest her foes should cross the
road and overtake her, she pressed on so far into the depths of the woods, that when she paused
to change her course, she became confused and doubtful respecting the direction she should
take to regain the road in the manner she had proposed. She had now no further knowledge of
the make of the land, or the situation of the hills, by which she could be guided. But at length,
fixing on a course which she thought most likely to be the right one, she again set forward,
slowly picking her way through the swampy and tangled tract of forest into which she seemed
now to have entered. In this manner she pursued her dubious course onward nearly an hour, every
moment expecting that the next would bring her out into the road. At length she fell in with
a small stream, which she rightly judged to be one of the brooks running into Black River,
and which, from what she knew of the course of that river, she supposed would lead nearly in
the direction she sought to go. But on stooping down to feel the current, she, to her great
surprise, found it running in a course directly opposite from what she expected. Scarcely knowing
now which way to direct her steps, she passed over the stream, and, with a sense of desolation,
growing out of the thought that she was lost in the depths of the wilderness, which she had
never before experienced, wandered on, and on, for several of the successive hours of that
dark and dismal night. At last she came to the top of a high swell, where, the new aspect presented
in the slope of the forest before her naturally causing her to pause, she dropped down upon
an old mossy log to rest her worn and wearied frame, and try to collect her confused and scattered
faculties. While here endeavoring to rally her sinking spirits, and compose her thoughts so
as to look more coolly on her situation, she began to discern, through the openings of the
foliage, the dark outlines of a high mountain, rising, at the distance of two or three miles,
directly in front of her. It now occurred to her that, like other persons lost in the woods,
of whom she had heard, she might have been, all this time, wandering in a circle, and that
the mountain before her might be the very one she supposed she had left far behind her, west
of the tory encampment. If this supposition should prove correct, the long-sought road must
lie somewhere between her and the mountain in view, and a little more perseverance in that
direction would consequently put an end to those perplexities which were now becoming more
painful and dread than any sensations she had experienced from the pursuit of her enemies.
Encouraged by the gleam of hope which this thought imparted to her almost despairing mind,
she started up, and again nerved herself for the task of meeting the many difficulties which
she knew, at the best, yet remained to be overcome. It had, by this time, in consequence of
a scattering of the clouds, or the rising of a waning moon, become perceptibly lighter, and,
for the next hour, her progress was much more direct and easy. By this time, she came to a
spot in the forest which was sufficiently open to give her another and fairer view of the mountain
she had been approaching. She looked upon its dark sides a moment, and the pleasant delusion
under which she had been laboring wholly vanished from her mind. She saw it could not be the
mountain she had hoped to find it, nor indeed any she had ever seen; and she again gave herself
up as lost, perhaps, irretrievably lost, far away and deep in the dark recesses of a howling
wilderness, from which she might never be extricated. And yet her usual firmness did not wholly
forsake her. "Is not your life of more value than many sparrows in the sight of Him who careth
for all?" she mentally exclaimed; and she was calmed and comforted by the ready affirmative
which her faith responded.

While casting about her in doubt respecting the next step to be taken, she discovered traces
of what was evidently once an imperfect road, or path, which seemed to extend through a partial
opening towards the mountain. Thinking it might possibly lead to some human habitation, or
at least to some place preferable to the open forest for rest and shelter till the return of
daylight, she resolved to follow it. As she proceeded on, she began to detect marks of the
woodman's or hunter's axe in the trees, here entirely cut down, and there girdled, or denuded
of their bark as high as the hand could reach. These indications of the former presence of
men appeared to grow more frequent as she went on; and at length she came out into a small
opening in the forest in the midst of which stood a roughly-constructed log-house, or shanty,
with a regularly-formed bark roof still standing. The remains of smaller and less durable shanties
were also visible in the vicinity of the former. [Footnote: Colonel Hawks, while traversing
the wilderness of Vermont, in the French wars, with a regular force, among whom was the then
Captain John Stark, once encamped near the foot of the mountain, in the south part of Cavendish,
where the incident we are narrating is supposed to have occurred. The mountain still bears
the name of Hawks's Mountain, and the traces of the encampment, it is said are still visible.]

With a cautious and hesitating step, Miss Haviland drew near to this rude structure, and at
once perceived, by the appearance of the unguarded loop-hole window, and the open entrance,
before which the untrodden wild weeds were growing, that it was untenanted. Approaching still
nearer, and peering into the window, she discovered, in one corner of the deserted apartment,
a comfortable-looking bed, composed of branches of the hemlock, which she rightly concluded
had been collected and used by hunters, who occasionally made the place their quarters for
the night. Immediately concluding to avail herself of the advantages which this shelter and
primitive couch seemed to promise for obtaining the rest her exhausted system so much needed,
she entered, and, throwing herself down on the soft and yielding boughs, soon surrendered herself
to the influence of the grateful repose, and fell asleep. She was soon, however, awakened--by
what she knew not, unless by the feeling of uneasiness and apprehension, by which she now found
herself unaccountably agitated. She had heard, or read, of those mysterious intimations, by
which, it is said, we sometimes instinctively become apprised of impending danger, when there
is no apparent cause for apprehension, and when reason utters no warning. If such instances
ever in reality occurred, this might be one of them; or the impression might have been unconsciously
received from actual sounds, which came from foes now secretly lurking near, and which, as
it is known often to be the case, had fallen on her slumbering ear, and disturbed and troubled,
without fully awakening her. But whatever the cause of the strange foreboding, the effect soon
became too strong and exciting to permit her longer to remain passive. And she arose to examine
the apartment, and see what precautions could be taken to render it more safe against the intrusion
of enemies, whether they should come in the shape of men or wild beasts. On approaching the
entrance, she discovered, standing by the side of it against the wall a sort of rough door
made of long cuts of thick bark, confined by withes to two cross-pieces, and intended, evidently,
as there were no contrivances for hanging it, to be set up against the entrance on the inside
as a barrier against the cold, or the unwelcome intrusion of any thing from without. But it
had become so water-soaked and heavy, and the end on which it stood so firmly set in the ground,
that she found, on making the attempt, her strength unequal to the task of removing it. And
she turned away to look for other means of protecting herself from danger. Casting her eyes
upward, she perceived, lying loose on the beams, or rather poles, extending across the room
above, several long pieces of bark, which had been left there, probably, when the roof, of
the same material, was constructed. And it immediately occurred to her, that, if she could
mount this loft, she might so dispose of herself there as to escape the observation of any
human intruders, and, at the same time, be out of reach of any wild beasts that should enter
the room below. Accordingly, going to one corner, she began to mount by stepping on the projecting
sides of the logs in the two converging walls, and soon succeeded in reaching the loft, and
forming, from the bark, a piece of flooring sufficiently strong and broad to bear her weight
and screen her person from observation. Upon this she extended herself, face downwards, with
her eyes placed to a small aperture, to enable her to see what might happen in the room below,
and silently, but with highly excited expectation, awaited the event. But what event did she
expect? She could not tell; and yet she was wholly unable to divest herself of the continually
intruding idea that something fearful was about to occur; and impelled by the singular apprehension,
she could not help listening for sounds which might herald the approaching evil.