[Footnote 1: This Otaheitian was returning from England to his native country. In London, he
was the lion of the day: he was introduced to the first circles, and saw whatever in a great
city could elevate his ideas: his manners acquired the polish of society. Grenville Sharpe
(he who secured the decision that the soil of Britain gives freedom to the slave that touches
it) endeavoured to improve his moral sentiments. He pointed out the practical injustice of
polygamy. Omai replied, "one wife, good--two wife, very good--three wife, very very good;"
but he had not misunderstood the argument. Taking three knives, he put two of them side by
side, and the other at a distance, and referring to a nobleman who had left his wife for a
mistress, said--"there Lord A., and there Miss ----; and there Lady A. lie down and cry." (Life
of G. Sharpe.)

But the moment he landed, he resumed all the customs of his countrymen, and employed his knowledge
of arms to destroy them. This was the only trace of his civilisation which survived the voyage:
he had seen regal grandeur and mercantile power, but he retained his preference for the habits
of his then heathen race.]

[Footnote 2: "But these good savages took hold of our arms, and supported us."]

SECTION II.

The party dispatched from Sydney, to take possession of the island, and who landed in August,
on their arrival at Risdon saw nothing of the natives. A solitary savage, armed with a spear,
afterwards entered the camp, and was cordially greeted. He accepted the trinkets which they
offered, but he looked on the novelties scattered about without betraying surprise. By his
gestures they inferred that he discharged them from their trespass. He then turned towards
the woods, and when they attempted to follow, he placed himself in the attitude of menace,
and poised his spear.

On the 3rd of May, 1804, during the absence of Lieutenant Bowen, the officer in command, the
first severe collision occurred. Five hundred blacks, supposed to belong to the Oyster Bay
tribe, gathered on the hills which overlooked the camp: their presence occasioned alarm, and
the convicts and soldiers were drawn up to oppose them. A discharge of fire-arms threw them
into momentary panic, but they soon re-united. A second, of ball cartridge, brought down many;
the rest fled in terror, and were pursued: it is conjectured that fifty fell.

The accounts of this affair differ greatly. By one party they are said to have assailed a man
and woman living in advance of the camp, and to have burned their hut. William White, who saw
them earliest, and gave notice of their approach, declared they then exhibited no hostility,
and were not near the hut before the collision. They came down in a semicircle, carrying waddies
but not spears; a flock of kangaroo hemmed in between them. The women and children attended
them. They came singing, and bearing branches of trees.

This curvilinear mode of marching was noticed by Labillardière: they probably assembled for
a corrobory. "They looked at me," said the witness, "with all their eye;" but they did not
attempt to molest him.

For the British, it may be alleged that customs, afterwards understood, were then less known.
They were ignorant of the language and temper of the blacks, and the preservation of the settlement
was the first military duty of Lieutenant Moore, who directed the fire. The action was sudden,
and perhaps no statement is exact. The natives were provoked, by the occupation of their common
place of resort, and it is no discredit to their character, if even they attempted to expel
the intruders.

A current report, respecting a conflict on the site of the hospital at Hobart Town, received
a curious exposition from the Rev. Mr. Knopwood. It was a tradition, that a party of blacks
assembled there, were dispersed by a volley of grape shot, and that several fell. Human bones
and grape shot were found; but the reverend gentleman stated that the bones were the remains
of persons who came from India, and who were buried there; and that the shot were accidentally
dropped when the stores, once kept there, were removed.

The consequences of these events were lamentable. The losses of the natives, in their ordinary
warfare, rarely extended beyond two or three; but the havock of their new enemy awakened irremediable
distrust. The sorrows of a savage are transient: not so, his resentment. Every wrong is new,
until it is revenged; and there is no reason to suppose these terrible sacrifices were ever
forgotten.

In these collisions, no British subject had fallen; but in the succeeding year (1805) a prisoner
of the crown was speared, while following a kangaroo; and two years after (1807) another, named
Mundy, met with a similar fate. The black had received presents from his hands, and approaching
him in pretended amity, trailed between his toes the fatal spear. These facts are given to
illustrate the cruelty of the natives; and it may be presumed that, from the slaughter of Risdon,
not many could be added to the number. These were, however, the acts of individuals, and without
concert or much premeditation. It is conjectured that the first European who perished was Mangé,
the surgeon of the Geographé, in 1802. The attack was unprovoked, and it is said unavenged.

The scarcity of food compelled the British to adopt a mode of life somewhat resembling that
of the aborigines. Germain, a marine, was employed, from 1805 to 1810, in procuring kangaroo,
which he hunted with dogs: he but rarely carried a gun, slept on the ground in the summer,
and in the winter on the branches of trees. During his wanderings, he often encountered the
natives, but they offered no violence; and he stated, as the result of his experience, that
until bushrangers excited them by cruelties, "there was no harm in them." The daughter of a
settler of 1804, was left sometimes in their care; their kindness was among the recollections
of her childhood.

The prisoners were dispersed. The government, unable to supply the common necessaries of life,
gave them license to forage: labor could not be exacted, nor discipline enforced; and when
circumstances altered, it was difficult to recall the wanderers, or to recover authority so
long relaxed. In their intercourse with the natives, licentious and cruel outlaws committed
every species of atrocity which could be suffered by the weak in contact with the wicked.

Lord Hobart, under whose auspices the colony was planted, directed the Lieutenant-Governor
to conciliate the natives: to preserve them from oppression, and to encourage them to resort
for protection to his authority. Their natural rights were recognised, but unhappily no provision
was made to define their interest in the soil of their country. Their migratory habits were
unfavorable to official supervision, and the success of humane suggestions depended on the
doubtful concurrence of ignorant cotters and wandering shepherds.

In 1810, an order was issued by Governor Collins, forcibly describing the wrongs of the natives,
and the revenge to which they were prompted. They had pursued an officer, residing at Herdsman's
Cove, and failing to capture him they fired his premises. Two persons, George Getley and William
Russell, had disappeared: it was supposed, the victims of resentment, awakened by the "abominable
cruelties and murders" (such is the language of Collins) perpetrated by the white people. This
Russell was himself notorious for skill in their torture--the subject of his boast. The government
declared that persons who wantonly fired on the natives, or murdered them "in cold blood,"
should suffer the last penalties of the law.[3]

The official treatment of the aborigines was not always judicious, or calculated to impress
the whites with the notion of civil equality. A native, whom it was deemed desirable to detain,
was fettered by Colonel Collins. Notwithstanding, he escaped, and was seen long after with
the iron on his leg; nor can the punishments inflicted for crimes committed against the blacks,
unusual as those punishments were, be given in proof that both races were valued alike. It
is not, however, true, that cruelty was always unpunished. A man was severely flogged for exposing
the ears of a boy he had mutilated; and another for cutting off the little finger of a native,
and using it as a tobacco stopper.[4]

The natives continued to shun the settlement for many years, but their confidence was easily
renewed by gentle treatment; it was, however, capricious, or more probably it was soon shaken
by insult, unknown to all but themselves. It was desired by Colonel Davey to establish a friendly
intercourse, and he instructed the men to invite the tribes they might encounter. A servant
of this governor, employed at South Arm, suddenly came on a tribe of thirty-six persons. A
native woman, living with a white, willingly went forth to communicate the wishes of the Governor.
They consented to visit Hobart Town, to which they were transferred by water. Davey endeavoured
to win their confidence, and they remained about town for weeks. Having received some offence
from worthless Europeans, they retreated to their woods, and never returned. This party attempted
to reach Bruné Island, and all were drowned, except one woman.

Mr. Knopwood remembered that, in 1813 and 1814, the natives were fed at his door. A number
of children were forcibly taken from them, and they disappeared from the camp.

Colonel Davey bears witness to the continuance of cruelty, which he censured in the strongest
language of indignation. Certain settlers established a species of juvenile slavery: they followed
up the mother, retarded by the encumbrance of her children, until she was compelled in her
terror to leave them. Well might the Governor declare, that crime so enormous had fixed a lasting
stigma on the British name. These provocations produced their usual consequences: by spearing
cattle, and other acts of hostility, a tribe at the Coal River revenged the robbery of their
children; surely, a slight retaliation for such incredible wickedness.

An expedition to Macquarie Harbour, in 1817, discovered a tribe hitherto unknown. They received
the first visit with the usual friendliness--a feeling which was, however, of short duration.

The Oyster Bay tribe are mentioned. They had begun to exhibit that spirit of hostility which
made them a terror to the colony, and armed the entire community against them. They had speared
one man, and killed another; but the origin of this feeling is distinctly stated: a native
had been shot in an expedition to capture some aboriginal children.

