I had one good and true friend--a fellow-workman, who used sometimes to spare an hour to visit
me, and he took great delight in cultivating an acquaintance with No. 12. As if attracted by
a kindred spirit, he never passed his bed without pausing to offer his cordial salutation;
and then he would whisper to me: 'He is a saint on earth; and not content with gaining Paradise
himself, must win it for others also. Such people should have monuments erected to them, known
and read of all men. In observing such a character, we feel ashamed of our own happiness--we
feel how comparatively little we deserve it. Is there anything I can do to prove my regard
for this good, poor No. 12?'

'Just try among the bookstalls,' I replied, 'and find the second volume of that book you see
him reading. It is now more than six years since he lost it, and ever since, he has been obliged
to content himself with the first.'

Now, I must premise that my worthy friend had a perfect horror of literature, even in its simplest
stages. He regarded the art of printing as a Satanic invention, filling men's brains with idleness
and conceit; and as to writing--in his opinion, a man was never thoroughly committed, until
he had recorded his sentiments in black and white for the inspection of his neighbours. His
own success in life, which had been tolerable--thanks to his industry and integrity--he attributed
altogether to his ignorance of those dangerous arts; and now a cloud swept across his lately
beaming face as he exclaimed: 'What! the good creature is a lover of books? Well, we must admit
that even the best have their failings. No matter. Write down the name of this odd volume on
a slip of paper; and it shall go hard with me, but I give him that gratification.'

He did actually return the following week with a well-worn volume, which he presented in triumph
to the old invalid. He looked somewhat surprised as he opened it; but our friend proceeding
to explain that it was at my suggestion he had procured it in place of the lost one, the old
grateful expression at once beamed up in the eyes of No. 12; and with a voice trembling with
emotion, he thanked the hearty giver.

I had my misgivings, however; and the moment our visitor turned his back, I asked to see the
book. My old neighbour reddened, stammered, and tried to change the conversation; but, forced
behind his last intrenchments, he handed me the little volume. It was an old Royal Almanac.
The bookseller, taking advantage of his customer's ignorance, had substituted it for the book
he had demanded. I burst into an immoderate fit of laughter; but No. 12 checked me with the
only impatient word I ever heard from his lips: 'Do you wish our friend to hear you? I would
rather never recover the power of this lost arm, than deprive his kind heart of the pleasure
of his gift. And what of it? Yesterday, I did not care a straw for an almanac; but in a little
time it is perhaps the very book I should have desired. Every day has its to-morrow. Besides,
I assure you it is a very improving study: even already I perceive the names of a crowd of
princes never mentioned in history, and of whom up to this moment I have never heard any one
speak.'

And so the old almanac was carefully preserved beside the volume of poetry it had been intended
to match; and the old invalid never failed to be seen turning over the leaves whenever our
friend happened to enter the room. As to him, he was quite proud of its success, and would
say to me each time: 'It appears I have made him a famous present.' And thus the two guileless
natures were content.

Towards the close of my sojourn in the hospital, the strength of poor No. 12 diminished rapidly.
At first, he lost the slight powers of motion he had retained; then his speech became inarticulate;
at last, no part obeyed his will except the eyes, which continued to smile on us still. But
one morning, at last, it seemed to me as if his very glance had become dim. I arose hastily,
and approaching his bed, inquired if he wished for a drink; he made a slight movement of his
eyelids, as if to thank me, and at that instant the first ray of the rising sun shone in on
his bed. Then the eyes lighted up, like a taper that flashes into brightness before it is extinguished--he
looked as if saluting this last gift of his Creator; and even as I watched him for a moment,
his head fell gently on the side, his kindly heart ceased to beat. He had thrown off the burden
of To-day; he had entered on his eternal To-morrow.

THINGS TALKED OF IN LONDON.

                                        June 1852.

As usual, everything shews in this month that our season will soon be past its perihelion:
soirées, whether scientific, exquisite, or political, take place almost too frequently for
the comfort and wellbeing of the invited; and loungers and legislators are alike beginning
to dream of leafy woods and babbling brooks. Our learned societies have brought their sessions
to a close, with more or less of satisfaction to all concerned, the Royal having elected their
annual instalment of new Fellows, and the Antiquaries having decided to reduce their yearly
subscription from four guineas to two, with a view to an increase and multiplication of the
number of their members, so that the study of antiquity may be promoted, and latent ability
or enthusiasm called into play. The British Association are making preparations for their meeting
at Belfast, and if report speak truth, the result of the gathering will be an advancement of
science in more than one department. Concerts, musical gatherings, spectacles, are in full
activity, the entrepreneurs seizing the moments, and coins too, as they fly. In short, midsummer
has come, and fashion is about to substitute languor for excitement. Meantime, our excursion
trains have commenced their trips to every point of the compass; and during the next few months,
thousands will have the opportunity of exploring the finest scenery of our merry island at
the smallest possible cost; and for one centre of attraction, as London was last year, there
will now be a hundred.

The award of Lord Campbell on the bookselling question has given a great triumph to the innovating
party, to which the authors to a man, and the great bulk of the public, had attached themselves.
The Trade, as the booksellers call themselves, while admitting that they can no longer stand
under a protective principle, feel certain difficulties as to their future career, for unquestionably
there is something peculiar in their business, in as far as a nominal price for their wares
is scarcely avoidable. If so, the question is, How is it to be adjusted? at a lower allowance
for the retailer? In that case, some would still undersell others; and the old troubles would
still be experienced. Ought there, then, to be no fixed retailing price at all, but simply
one for the publisher to exact from the retailer, leaving him to sell at what profit he pleases
or can get? In that case, the publisher's advertisement, holding forth no price to the public,
would lose half its utility. Shall we, then, leave the retailer to advertise? All of these
questions must occupy the attention of booksellers for some time to come, and their settlement
cannot speedily be hoped for. The general belief, however, is, that the cost for the distribution
of books from the shops of the publishers must be considerably reduced, the prices of books
of course lowered, and their diffusion proportionately extended. It will perhaps be found that
some of the greatest obstructions that operate in the case are not yet so much as touched upon.

The French have resumed their explorations and excavations at Khorsabad, and will doubtless
bring to light many more remains of the arts of Nineveh; and Colonel Rawlinson has found the
burial-place of the kings and queens of Assyria, where the bodies are placed in sarcophagi,
in the very habiliments and ornaments in which they were three thousand years ago! What an
important relic it will be for our rejuvenated Society of Antiquaries to exercise their faculty
of investigation upon! If discoveries go on at this rate, we shall soon want to enlarge our
British Museum.

The Registrar-General tells us, in his first Report for the present year, that 90,936 persons
were married in the last quarter of 1851--a greater number than in any quarter since 1842,
except two, when it was slightly exceeded. It is altogether beyond the average, and confirms
what has been before observed, that marriages are most numerous in England in the months of
September, October, and November, after the harvest. To every 117 of the whole population there
was one marriage. On the other hand, births are found to be most abundant in the first quarters
of the year; the number for the first three months of the present year was 161,776. 'So many
births,' says the Registrar, 'were never registered before in the same time.' In the same period
of 1851, it was 157,374; and of 1848, 139,736. The deaths during the three months were 106,682,
leaving an increase in the population of 55,094, which, however, disappears in the fact, that
57,874 emigrants left the United Kingdom in the course of the quarter. The mortality, on the
whole, was less than in the ten previous winters, owing, perhaps, to the temperature having
been 3° above the average; but the difference was more marked in rural districts than in the
large towns. According to the meteorological table attached to the Report, it appears that
the mean temperature for the three months ending in February was 41°.1, being 4°.2 above the
average of eighty years. On the 10th of February, the north-east wind set in, and on seventy
nights during the quarter the temperature went below freezing. The movement of the air through
January and February was 160 miles per day--in March, 100 miles. Up to February 9, the wind
was generally south-west, and rain fell on twenty-three days, and on six days only after that
date. These periodical reports, and those of our Meteorological and Epidemiological Societies
will doubtless, before long, furnish us with sufficient data for a true theory of cause and
effect as regards disease, and for preventive measures.

Gold is, and will be for some time to come, a subject much talked about. Some of our financiers
are beginning to be of opinion, that the period is not distant when a great change must be
made in the value of our currency--the sovereign, for instance, to be reduced from 20s. to
10s. If so, there would be a good deal of loss and inconvenience during the transition; but,
once made, the difficulty would cease. Others, however, consider that the demand for gold for
manufacturing purposes and new appliances in the arts, will be so great, that not for many
years to come will its increase have any effect on the value of the circulating medium. It
will be curious if the result, as not unfrequently happens, should be such as to falsify both
conclusions. Connected with this topic is the important one of emigration; and so important
is it, that either by public or private enterprise, measures will be taken to insure a supply
of labourers to the Australian colonies to replace, if possible, those who have betaken themselves
to the diggings. Convicts will not be received; and as something must be done with them, Sir
James Matheson has offered to give North Rona, one of the Orkney Islands, to the government
for a penal settlement. It has been surveyed, and found to contain 270 acres, sufficient to
support a population of 1000. Should the proposal be adopted, it will afford an opportunity
for trying an entirely new system of discipline with the criminal outcasts.

Some attention has been drawn to the fact, that our 'Ten Hour Bill' has produced an effect
on the other side of the Atlantic. The legislature of Ohio has just passed a 'ten hour law,'
to apply to 'all manufactories, workshops, and other places used for mechanical or manufacturing
purposes' throughout the state; the penalty to be a fine of from one guinea to ten. Something
has already been said about extending its provisions to agricultural labourers and domestic
servants--not so easy a task as the other; but when one remembers how desperately hard people
are made to work in the United States, it is gratifying to observe ever so small a beginning
towards more temperate and life-preserving regulations. In New York, great efforts are made
towards establishing female schools of design and female medical colleges, with a view to open
to women a wider sphere of employment than that to which they are now restricted. Notwithstanding
the objections expressed in many quarters against female physicians, it is certain that they
would find favour among a large class of invalids. Another Women's Rights Convention has been
held, and an Industrial Congress. One of the questions discussed at the latter was: Why in
the United States some have all the work and no property, and others all the property and no
work? Harriet Martineau's stories of Political Economy would have helped the debaters to a
satisfactory solution.

Our sanitary reformers, also, are felicitating themselves on the spread of their principles
to the West, seeing that the first Baths for the People were opened in New York a few weeks
since. It appears from accounts which have been sent over, that the edifice cost 30,000 dollars,
and is provided with every convenience to insure the end in view--the promotion of cleanliness.
The charge for plunge-baths is two cents; for warm-baths, five cents; and first-class baths,
ten cents. For washing, a range of stalls extends through the building, in the bottom of which
is a contrivance for admitting hot or cold water, as may be desired. The drying machinery is
'arranged after the plan of a window-sash, with weights and pulleys, so as to rise and fall
at pleasure. This sliding apparatus, when elevated, is brought into contact with confined heated
air for a few minutes, followed by a rapid draught of dry air, which dries the clothes with
great rapidity. The same heat is made use of for heating the flat-irons, which are brought
from the furnace to the hands of the laundresses on a miniature railway.' With such an establishment
as this in full play, the 71,000 emigrants who landed in New York during the first four months
of the present year, would have little difficulty in purifying themselves after their voyage.

There is yet another topic of interest from the United States--namely, the earthquake that
was felt over a wide extent of country on the 29th of April last. Our geologists are expecting
to derive from it some further illustration of the dynamics of earthquakes, as the Smithsonian
Institution has addressed a circular to its numerous staff of meteorological observers, calling
for information as to the number of shocks, their direction, duration, intensity, effects on
the soil and on buildings, &c. There have been frequent earthquakes of late in different parts
of the world, and inquiry may probably trace out the connection between them. The centre of
intensest action appears to have been at Hawaii, where Mauna Loa broke out with a tremendous
eruption, throwing up a column of lava 500 feet high, which in its fall formed a molten river,
in some places more than a mile wide. It burst forth at a point 10,000 feet above the base
of the mountain.

Dr Gibbons has published a few noteworthy facts with respect to the climate of California,
which shew that San Francisco 'possesses some peculiar features, differing from every other
place on the coast.' The average yearly temperature is 54°; at Philadelphia it is 51°.50; and
the temperature is found to be remarkably uniform, presenting few of those extremes common
to the Atlantic states. On the 28th of April last year, it was 84°; on October 19th, 83°; August
18th, 82°--the only day in the three summer months when it rose above 79°. It was 80° on nine
days only, six of them being in October; while in Philadelphia it is 80° from sixty to eighty
days in the year. In the latter city, the temperature falls below the freezing-point on 100
days in the year, but at San Francisco on twenty-five mornings only. The coldest month is January;
the hottest, October. 'In the summer months, there is scarcely any change of temperature in
the night. The early morning is sometimes clear, sometimes cloudy, and always calm. A few hours
after sunrise, the clouds break away, and the sun shines forth cheerfully and delightfully.
Towards noon, or most frequently about one o'clock, the sea-breeze sets in, and the weather
is completely changed. From 60° or 65°, the mercury drops forthwith to near 50° long before
sunset, and remains almost motionless till next morning.' The summer, far from being the beautiful
season it is in other countries, parches up the land, and gives it the aspect of a desert,
while the 'cold sea-winds defy the almost vertical sun, and call for flannels and overcoats.'
In November and December, or about midwinter, the early rains fall, and the soil becomes covered
with herbage and flowers. These are facts which emigrants bound for California will do well
to bear in mind.

To come back to Europe. M. Fourcault has addressed a communication to the Académie on 'Remedies
against the Physical and Moral Degeneration of the Human Species,' intended more especially
for the working-classes. He would have schools of gymnastics and swimming established along
the great rivers, and on the sea-shore; gymnastic dispensaries, and clinical gymnastic in towns;
and agricultural and other hospitals, combining simple and economical means of water-cure.
His clinical gymnastic comprehends three divisions: hygienic or muscular exercise, not violent
or long-continued, or productive of perspiration; medical, in which the exercise is to be kept
up until perspiration is induced; and orthopedic, which, by means of ropes, bands, and loops
attached to a bed, enable the patient to take such straining and stretching exercise as may
be likely to rectify any deformity of limb. Whichever method be adopted, it must be carried
out conscientiously, because 'feeble muscular contractions, without energy or sustained effort,
produce no hygienic, medical, or orthopedic effect.' M. Fourcault may perhaps find some of
his objects accomplished in another way, for the Prince President has, by a decree, appropriated
10,000,000 francs to the improvement of dwellings for the working-classes--3,000,000 of the
sum being set apart for Paris--and has offered 5000 francs for the best design. If such works
as these continue, we shall soon cease to hear that enough is not done for the working-classes;
and they will have, in turn, to shew how much they can do for themselves.

