"Good! Well, Mrs. Cricket wears at the end of her body a long spear. See this cricket of Peter's.
Now she bores her hole with this spear and then guides her eggs carefully into the hole. Why,
see here, Pete, what have you got here?"

The children gazed eagerly over the old man's shoulder.

"My, isn't it like velvet!" exclaimed Peter.

"And isn't it brown!" added Hope.

"But look at its stumpy front legs!" called Jack, who had forgotten his empty stomach in the
excitement about this little creature, which looked like a cricket and yet was so different.

"And its little beads of eyes!" said Betty.

"Do you know what it is?" No one knew. "Well, it's a mole cricket. You rarely ever see one
because they live underground and bore their way along just like moles, leaving tiny tracks
and nibbling the roots of tender plants. You see, it doesn't need eyes any more than the mole
does. But it does need those thickened fore legs to do its underground digging. Now, children,
run out into the fields and let your crickets go. Be careful not to hurt them. We'll have supper,
and after supper we'll catch a katydid."

Out ran the children. Soon they were setting the long wooden tables under the trees with delicious
trout the boys had caught, with hot biscuits and jugs of maple syrup, with berries and cookies,
with milk from the old cow, who, contentedly chewing her cud, was looking at them through the
low crotch of a tree, and with little cakes of maple sugar which the guide had moulded into
the shape of hearts.

V

HOW KATY DID

Never did trout, cookies, and maple sugar disappear so quickly; never were such appetites;
never such laughing, and such interesting stories told by the guide.

"Hush!" said Ben Gile. "Do you hear that?"

"Yes," cried Peter.

"What is it?"

"It's a katydid," said Betty, "over there."

"Listen, children, what does it say?"

"It says, 'Chic-a-chee, chic-a-chee,' over and over again," answered Jack.

"Pooh," interrupted Jimmie, "it says, 'Katy did, Katy didn't!'"

"It says, 'Katy broke a china plate; yes, she did; no, she didn't,'" called Betty.

"Yes, she did; no, she didn't!" the children shouted, merrily, together.

"Well," said the old man, "anyway, it's all about what Katy did do and what Katy didn't do.
Probably Mr. Katy, like other good husbands in the world, is singing of the wonderful things
Katy did do and the naughty things she didn't do. That is Mr. Katy's love-song. Ah, he finds
Mrs. Katy very charming--her beautiful wings, her gracefully waving antennæ, her knowing, shining
eyes! Now, listen again. Katydid carries its musical instrument at the base of its wing cover.
On each side is a tiny membrane and a strong vein. When the wing covers are rubbed together
the membrane speaks, and you hear--"

"Katy did, Katy didn't!" shouted the children.

"Do you think you know where they are? Well, take these lanterns"--the guide had lighted half
a dozen--"and find them."

The children scurried off, certain of a quick victory. In the woods about the cabin you could
hear them shouting: "It's here!" "No, it isn't!" "Where is it?"

"A will-o'-the-wisp," murmured the old man; "may they never have a harder one to find!"

By-and-by the children came trotting back. They couldn't find the katydid in any place, and
they had looked everywhere.

"Couldn't? How did you look?" He took one of the lanterns, went to a near-by tree, and held
the lantern close to the leaves. "Here it is! Why, it's a great fellow!"

The children trooped into the cabin after him, crowding to look at the katydid.

"I thought they were brown," said Hope.

"So did I," echoed Betty.

"See, you can't tell this fellow from the leaf, it is such a bright, fresh green. Woe to the
katydid if it were anything but this bright green! Just think how easily the birds would find
them. What nice salad Katy would make for a young robin!"

"Do the birds eat katydids?" asked the children, in surprise.

"Oh yes, and they haven't any stated luncheon or supper time for doing it. They are very informal.
One time is as good as another, and the oftener the merrier. If Katy doesn't keep very quiet
and demure, like her leafy background, whist! and Father Robin or Mother Bluebird has a meal
for the youngsters."

"Is that why it doesn't sing by day?" asked Peter.

"They wait till the birds go to bed, I suppose. See what a comical look this fellow has, waving
its long, fine, silky antennæ about. Probably it's trying to find out what it is on, looking
out for another nice green leaf to eat. They do a lot of damage eating leaves from the trees."

"What's that?" asked Betty, pointing to the edge of a leaf.

"Well, you have sharp eyes," said the old man. "Mrs. Katydid has laid her eggs there. See,
the eggs are rounded and flattened, and each egg laps a little over the one in front of it.
Once another man saw a row of katydid eggs laid as neatly as could be on the edge of a clean
linen collar. I'll keep these eggs; then, in the spring, the young ones will hatch out. They
will grow and shed their skins from time to time, just the way the locusts do. Ah, they leave
so many old clothes about that they need an old clothes man! I wish I could tell you about
the katydid I knew once upon a time who spent her days collecting old clothes, and how she
made a fortune selling them to--"

Ben Gile paused and sighed deeply.

"Selling them to what?" shouted the children.

"I can't tell that to you," replied the old man, shaking his head sadly. "It's the story of
'How Katy Did.' I have to be very careful, for Mr. John Burroughs, who is a wiser old man than
I am, says I mustn't. Lately the scientists almost killed one man I know, and a good, clever,
useful man, for telling that story--very savage, very savage."

The children began to look troubled. "Will Mr. Burroughs hurt us?" inquired Hope. "My papa would--"

"No, no, child, you're too small. He likes something big, and he's especially fond of the Big
Stick."

"Is that what he does his beating with?" Jack's eyes were frightened.

"He hunts with the Big Stick," answered the guide. "Dear me, where are we? It's half-past eight,
and you children should have been in bed this time long, long ago. Hurry! Skip! Get the lanterns
or we'll all be scolded."

And they scampered for the village, the guide driving them before him, and all the lights waving
to and fro like so many crazy fireflies.

VI

FISHING

Have you ever started off on a bright, cool morning to fish? At the last it seems as if you
would never get started, which, I suppose, is partly the eagerness to be gone; then you do
get off, only to find you've forgot the can of worms or the salt for the luncheon-basket.

Jimmie and Betty were prancing on the lawn in front of Turtle Lodge. Jimmie had his camera
over his back and a jointed steel rod done up in a neat little case in his hands, on his feet
long rubber boots. Betty wore a big straw hat; she carried a little rod like Jim's and a pretty
little knapsack, which held part of the luncheon. They were waiting for Jack and Ben Gile,
who were to go with them to fish a stream that lay far back from the pond. It was to be a great
day's sport. They had a creel and a rod for Jack; for the guide they needed to take nothing,
for he had the most wonderful collection of rods and flies they had ever seen.

At last they saw him coming up the hill, Jack with him. Hastily they kissed Mrs. Reece, and
ran shouting and jumping toward the old man and the boy, Lizzie after them, for they had left
half the luncheon on the grass. "Faith!" she panted, catching up with them, "and what can you
be doing without the victuals, I'd like to know?"

The guide took part of the bundles and Jack the rest. Off they went gayly talking and laughing.

Soon they were following the stream, Jack catching his line and fly in the alders almost every
time he cast.

Jack was too poor ever to have had any rod except an alder stick cut beside the stream, a short
line and hook, and any worm or grasshopper he might find. He was wonderfully proud of the rod
he held. The children meant to give it to him at the end of the summer. But Jack did not know
this good news yet.

Ben Gile led the way, and almost every time he cast his fly there was a swirl, the end of the
slender rod bent, there was a minute of excitement, and then upon the bank lay a beautiful
speckled trout. On, on, on they went over the cool, green leaves and bright red berries of
the partridge vine, and past raspberries wherever the sun had struck in through the heavy trees
to ripen them. The stream was running more and more swiftly as they travelled up grade; quick
water was growing more frequent and the pools deeper.

At last they came to a deep, round pool, and the guide said, "Now, Jim, you've the first try."

Jimmie cast his fly, there was a strike, a plunge, and out, out, out ran Jimmie's line. The
boy's face turned quite pale. "What shall I do, sir?"

"You have a big one," answered Ben, calmly. "If you can play him long enough we may get him;
otherwise he'll get your fly and line. Steady there, steady; let out a little more line, and
now reel in a bit."

It seemed like hours to Jimmie as he let the line out and reeled it in again. Really, it was
only a few minutes before the guide said: "Seems to be getting a little tired; bring him in
closer. That's it. There!"

They had no landing-net with them, so at the last moment Ben Gile seized the line, and out
came a two-pound trout. Jimmie's eyes were popping nearly out of his head, and Betty was jumping
about and clapping her hands.

"Tired?" asked the old man.

"Some," said the boy.

"Well, this is the best place we shall find to eat our luncheon. We'll camp here. Now for the
fire! Boys, get the wood and a small strip of birch bark! Then these two stones will hold the
frying-pan. Now for the fish; we'll keep that big one of yours and I'll mount it for you, if
you'd like me to. We'll eat the little fellows. After luncheon we must catch more for your
mother, Betty, and for Jack to take home with him."

Soon the frying-pan was hot, and the trout were sizzling and curling up with the bacon in the
pan. Never did a luncheon taste so good as that, with fried trout and bacon, and hard-boiled
eggs, soda biscuits, and a mammoth apple pie. They listened to the fire crackling; they looked
up into the shining trees; they watched the water beyond the pool go tumbling downhill.

Finally the old man said, "It's going to be a clear day to-morrow."

The children gazed up into the sky.

At this Ben Gile laughed. "Don't look at the sky, look at your plates."

Puzzled by this, the children did look at their plates.

"But there's nothing left to look at," said Jack.

"That's just it. There's an old saying that people who eat all their food make a clear day
for the morrow. Now," he continued, "I'll smoke my pipe of peace before we go on. Just look
at that fellow darting about over the pool!"

"Oh!" cried Betty, "it's a darning-needle, and it will sew up my mouth and my eyes--oh, oh!"

"Nonsense, child, that's silly. The dragon-fly is a very useful and a very harmless fellow.
It's a pity that there are so many superstitions about it."

"There's another name for it," said Jack--"devil's darning-needle."

"And in the South the darkies call it the mule-killer, and believe it has power to bring snakes
to life. It's all nonsense. They are not only harmless to human beings but also very useful,
for they eat flies and mosquitoes at a great rate. Once upon a time I fed a dragon-fly forty
house flies in two hours. And they eat beetles and spiders and centipedes. And sometimes they
eat one another."

"Like the crickets?" said Betty.

"Yes, like the crickets. Just see that fellow dart about. The sharpest sort of angles. There,
it has something! It caught that lace-wing in its leg-basket."

"Leg-basket!" exclaimed the children.

"Yes; it draws its six legs together, and makes a sort of basket right under its head. Then
the dragon-fly devours what it catches by these strong-toothed jaws. It is a hungry fellow, it is."

The old man puffed away quietly for a few minutes, while the children watched the darning-needle
and hoped Ben Gile would say something soon.

"Those scientists," he continued, "who are working on flying-machines could learn a good deal
from this fellow. The dragon-fly is made for flight. A long, slender, tapering body that cuts
the air, moved by four narrow, gauzy wings, and steered by that pointed abdomen. They eat,
mate, and lay their eggs while they are flying. I don't know that they are still for more than
a few seconds."

"Can you find their eggs?" asked Betty.

"Yes; their eggs are laid in the water or fastened to the stems of water plants. See that damsel
fly, the slender, smaller, pretty-colored darning-needle? Well, it goes entirely under water,
cuts a slit in the stem with the sharp end of the abdomen, and lays the eggs in the groove
it has made. And they lay thousands of eggs."

"When they hatch out, what do they look like?" asked Jack, who grew daily more interested in
the creatures about him, and who, in the years to come, was destined to be a great scientist.

"It looks a little like the mother," said Ben Gile, taking out his pipe, "but not much. It
goes through a great many changes before it is really grown up. All told, the growth takes
from a few months to a whole year. The young one, called a nymph, is an ugly little fellow,
dingy black with six sprawling legs, two staring eyes, and a big lower lip which covers up
its cruel face like a mask. It is a true ogre, lurking under stones and in rubbish at the bottom
of the pond seeking whom it may devour. It eats the smaller and weaker nymphs."

"Oh," said Betty, studying the picture the guide had drawn, "what an ugly, ugly fellow!"

"It changes its skin a good many times, and sometimes it looks a little better while the skin
is still clean and light gray. But it soon turns dingy again. See these three little leaf-shaped
gills I've drawn?"

"They are like the screw on a steamer," commented Jimmie.

"They are, a little. Well, this chap uses these gills for the same purpose as the steamer uses
its screw--to scull through the water."

"What happens when it changes?" asked Jack.

"After the nymph has its full growth, some sunny morning soon after daylight, it makes its
way up out of the water on to a stem and waits quietly for the old dark skin to split. Then
out crawls a soft-skinned creature with gauzy wings. But the body is so moist and weak it has
to wait awhile for the warm sunshine to harden the skin and strengthen the muscle. When this
is done the new dragon-fly, with its glistening body, flies out from the pond in the bright,
warm light."

"Then does it live forever?" asked Betty.

"No; it dies after twenty-five to forty-five days of its flight. Here, Jack, catch that fellow!"

There was a wild scramble, but every time Jack just missed the dragon-fly. Finally Betty lent
him her broad hat, and at last Jack caught the insect.

"Gee! aren't its eyes big?"

"And beautiful, too," said the guide. "They are made up of thousands of facets (a facet is
just a small, plain surface) as many as thirty thousand facets in one eye. Some look up, some
look down, some look out, some look in; so that there is nothing that escapes the sight of
this hawk of the air. Look at the wings on this fellow, and look at the picture I drew for
you of the nymph. Well, this fellow's wings begin in the nymph as tiny sacs, or pads, made
by the pushing out of the wall of the body. Running all through between the two layers of the
wing are thickened lines of chitin, which divide and subdivide, forming this fine network.
In the new wing, protected by these thickenings, are air-tubes, which divide and branch into
all parts of the wing. But as the wing reaches its full growth most of the air-tubes die."
The guide paused. "We are talking too much and fishing too little. Time to go on. Put out the
fire, boys. Be sure that it's out. Run water all around it. Now we're off!" And up, up, up
the brook they went.

VII

THE SWIMMING-POOL

Two or three days after the fishing expedition the boys had gathered together at the swimming-pool,
Ben Gile with them. They had been racing, and climbing trees, and were very warm. "Come, boys,"
said the guide, "let's sit down a minute before you go into the water. It won't do to bathe
when you're too warm. Look round on the stones under the water and see what you can find."

"Look at this," called Peter; "it's just like a sponge."

"It is a fresh-water sponge."

"I didn't suppose sponges grew in these parts at all," said Jimmie.

"Oh yes, there are many of them in the ponds."

"See this, sir," shouted Jack; "what funny little legs it has!"

"That's a May-fly or shad-fly nymph. He was hiding carefully under that stone and keeping out
of the way of the dragon-fly nymph, who would so gladly gobble him up."

"It's prettier," said Jimmie, "than that dragon-fly nymph you drew a picture of."

"So it is. See, here on each side of its body are these fine little gill-plates, moving, moving,
moving, so that they may get as much fresh air as possible out of the water. Each gill-plate
is a tiny sac, and within these are the fine branches of the air-tubes. It's wonderful the
way these creatures breathe."

"Don't they breathe just the way we do?" asked Jack.

"No; throughout the body of an insect is a system of tiny white tubes. Some day we'll look
at these tubes under the microscope, and you will see that they are made up of rings. From
end to end of the tube is a fine thread of chitin twisted in a close spiral like a spring.
It is these little coils which look like rings. The coiled thread holds the little tube open
so that the air may pass readily. But your little fellow, Jack, cannot have pores on the sides
of the body like the last nymph. It lives under water, and the water would get into its tubes;
instead, it has tracheal gills."

"That's a pretty big word," said Peter, looking up at the guide. He was growing impatient,
and wished to begin the swim. If he had known what that swim was to mean to him, probably he
would not have been so anxious.

"They aren't so hard to understand; they are just little oval sacs, inside of which is a limb
of the air tube divided into tiny branches. The fresh air in the water passes through the thin
wall of the gill and is taken by the air-tubes to all parts of the body, while the impure air
passes out in the water. This is all that breathing means in any creature--a changing of impure
for pure air."

"Then that is what my nymph is doing," asked Jack, "when it wiggles its gills so?"

"Just that. Your May-fly nymph, Jack, hatched from a tiny egg first. But it grows rapidly,
and splits and sheds its skin sometimes as often as twenty times. During the last few months
wings appear, which grow a little larger with each shedding of the skin. Finally, after three
years--sometimes three years spent in growing and hiding away from its enemies--the little
nymph floats up to the surface of the water. In a few minutes the old skin splits along the
back, and from it flies forth a frail little May-fly. Its body is very soft and delicate. Its
four wings are of a gauzy texture. At the tip of the body are two long, fine hairs. Its jaws
are small and weak, but the life of this little creature is so short that it never eats. Up
it flies into the air with thousands of its brothers and sisters, whirls in a mad dance for
a few hours, then falls exhausted to the ground to die.

"Well, now I think we'd better go into the water," ended the guide. "You boys can go in just
as you are." For three little boys had been sitting undressed in the bright sunshine. "Good
for their pores," Ben Gile had told them, which is all very true.

Soon there was the greatest splashing and paddling and shouts of, "My goodness, isn't the water
cold!" "Can you swim this way?" "How far can you go, anyway?"

Jimmie and the guide were swimming around near the shore when suddenly, two hundred feet ahead
of them, they saw Peter disappear in what they supposed was shallow water. Jack was half-way
the distance between the guide and Peter. It did not take him an instant to realize what had
happened. But before he could get to the place where Peter had gone down, the lad had come
up, struggled, and gone down again. As he came up once more Jack caught him by his curly hair,
turned over on his back, holding Peter's head high out of the water, and swam calmly for the
shallow place. Once there, the old man took Peter in his arms and hurried to shore, where they
rolled him until they had the water out of him. Not a word was said, and modest, quiet Jack
did not seem to think that he had been brave.

When Peter opened his eyes he said, "Guess my pores weren't in the right place."

VIII

THE RAINY DAY

It was a rainy day. Poor Betty flattened her little nose against the window-panes of Turtle
Lodge a dozen times. But outside all she could see were just the long, straight lines of the
down-coming rain and an empty road leading downhill to the edge of the pond; all she could
hear was the drum of the water upon the roof. Inside, Jimmie was developing films in his laboratory,
and was not in the least interested in what Betty might be doing.

"Oh, mother," called Betty, "I am so tired; there isn't anything to do!"

"Why don't you sew on a dress for Belinda?" asked Mrs. Reece.

"Belinda has too many clothes; she has more than I have, mother, and she's a naughty dolly to-day."

"Well, let me see--get Lizzie to let you make cake."

"Lizzie's cross, and I'm afraid to. I wish the guide were here. He's never cross, and never
too busy to tell you something that's interesting." Betty looked out of the window. "He's coming
now! Goody! Goody!"

When old Ben Gile reached the steps there was a little girl dancing inside the door and still
shouting "Goody!"

"What's this?"

"You'll tell me a story, won't you?"

"Tell you a story! Dear, dear, I never knew such a little greedy for stories. I've brought
you something."

Betty's face was shining now. She had forgotten the rain, the dreary day, cross Lizzie, and
everything. Ben Gile took a box out of his pocket. "What is it?" she asked.

"I have a box full of little elves for you."

"Elves!" exclaimed Betty.

"Yes, little elves, little brownies."

"Come into the study, where there is a fire." Mrs. Reece led the way. "Then you can tell us
all about these elves." They sat down around the fire, and Mrs. Reece continued, "Don't you
think it would be fun to pop corn while we're hearing about the brownies?"

Betty was delighted, and ran for a corn-popper, and soon there was the merry sound of crackling
wood, popping corn, and happy voices--all sounds that proved so tempting that before long Jimmie
joined the others.

"My little elf is a bug," began the hermit.

"A bug an elf?"

"Yes, a bug; and when he doesn't look like an elf, he looks like a king with a high crown on
his head or a naughty boy with a dunce cap."

"Let's see him, please," said Betty.

The old man opened his box. Inside lay a lot of little creatures with backs like beechnuts.
"See, look through the lens!"

Betty laughed. "Oh, aren't they funny! The eyes are so big and so far apart."

"And the lines on their heads make them look as if they were gazing through heavy-bowed spectacles,"
said Mrs. Reece.

"There is a very wise man, and his name is Mr. Comstock, who says that Nature must have been
in a joking mood when she made these little tree and leaf hoppers, they are so impish and knowing-looking.
Ah, they are the naughty brownies of the insect world!"

"Betty, Betty," called Mrs. Reece, "your popcorn is burning!"

"Mother, I don't care to pop any more; let me just listen now. What makes them bad?"

"Well, they are born with a naughty desire to suck everything they can get their tiny sucking
beaks upon. They hop around in great numbers on the fruit trees and pierce the leaves with
their sharp beaks. Then, with a tubelike lower lip, they suck up the sap. They also make slits
in the twigs in which to lay their eggs. In the following spring the eggs hatch, and there
is a fresh supply of tree-hoppers ready to begin the mischief their parents left off only when
they died."

"And what is the difference between the leaf-hoppers and the tree-hoppers?" asked Mr. Reece.

"Not much. They are cousins--cousins in naughtiness. The leaf-hoppers are a great nuisance.
Every year they destroy from one-fourth to one-fifth of the grass that springs up. They also
suck the sap of the rose, the grape-vine, and of many grains. These sturdy fellows live during
the winter by hiding under the rubbish in the fields and vineyards, ready when the warm spring
does come to begin their naughty work."

"What makes a little fellow like this able to do so much damage?" asked Jimmie, who had come
in, his hands all stained with chemicals.

"Well, it is well covered by this horny substance called chitin, and then it is very active.
You see, the chitin acts both as armor-plate for the soft parts and also as a firm support
to the many muscles. As many as two thousand separate, tiny muscles have been counted in a
certain caterpillar. That shows how very active insects are."

"And they all have such big eyes they can see everything," said Betty.

"So they have--bigger eyes than the old wolf of the story had."

"You remember, I told you about the thousands of facets in the big eyes of the darning-needle?
Not contented with these large eyes, most insects have three small eyes arranged in the form
of a triangle on the front of the head."

"This bug has feelers, too," said Jimmie.

"So it has. Insects use these feelers, or antennæ, for all sorts of purposes--some for touch,
some for smell, some for hearing. Ants exchange greetings by touching antennæ, and recognize
a friend or an enemy by the odor. The antennæ of a male mosquito are covered with fine hairs.
When Mrs. Mosquito sings, all the tiny hairs on Mr. Mosquito's feelers are set in motion, and
he becomes aware of Mrs. Mosquito."

Mrs. Reece laughed. "That's a new kind of romance!"

"Mother, what's a romance?" asked Betty.

"You'll know, dear, in time."

"Notice this imp's mouth," said the guide. "It's made for sucking. But there's a great difference
in the mouths of insects: some are made for biting, some for lapping, some for piercing, and
some for sucking. The butterfly, which lives on nectar in the depths of the flowers, has a
long, coiled tube which scientists call a proboscis. This it unrolls and buries in the throat
of the flower. Mrs. Mosquito has a file and pump, for it is she, and not her husband, who does
all the singing and biting. The male mosquito has nothing more than a mouth for sucking nectar.
And I told you about the biting jaws of the locust with which it nibbles grass and leaves."

"And does the tree-hopper breathe the way the locust does--through those pores on the side?"

"Yes, child," said the old man, "and the air-pores are protected by fine hairs which surround
the openings, just the way the hairs in your nostrils keep the dust from getting up your nose
and into your throat."

"Things in the bugs," said Betty, "are so like us."

"The world becomes more and more like one great whole as you grow older," added Ben Gile. "Those
are interesting elves I've been telling you about, aren't they?"

"I didn't know bug elves could be so interesting."

"Now run and get us some of the fresh cake Lizzie has been baking," said Mrs. Reece. "I hope
it will taste as good as it smells."

IX

THE PRIZE

There were two canoes going up the little river which led out from the pond. In the first were
Ben Gile with Betty, Hope, and Jack. In the second Jimmie and Peter paddled Mrs. Reece. They
had trout rods, although they did not plan to fish very much, and well-filled luncheon-baskets,
magnifying-glasses, cameras, boxes, and various other things.

In two weeks they were to go on a camping expedition, and to-day's trip was taken chiefly to
find a good place for the first night's stop.

The children were all excitement about the camping, which was to be the last jollity of their
happy summer, and they asked so many questions about what they were to take with them, and
they asked the same questions over so many times, that at last Mrs. Reece put her hands on
her ears and called to the guide, who was paddling vigorously ahead.

"Well," he called back, "a frying-pan and an axe, and perhaps a tent." He allowed his canoe
to drop nearer Mrs. Reece's. "What naughty children you are," he continued, "to bother the
life out of your poor mother! I know of some other children, too, who are very naughty. I see
one flying now."

"That pretty little thing," exclaimed Betty, "with the gauzy wings?"

"Yes, that pretty little thing; its wings have many, many veins. When Lace-Wing is a baby and
is called a larva, it does not look like this, for its jaws are strong and very sharp. After
it has eaten and grown for some time it makes a house for itself, where it rolls up for a nap.
While it is lying very still in this little house many things are happening."

"What happens?" asked Jack.

"Well, it is changing from a baby to a grown-up, and while it is growing up into an insect
it is called a pupa. Don't mistake this for papa--it does not look like your papa at all."

Betty thought this was very funny, because her father was a great big man over six feet tall.

"After its wings are made and it looks just like its mamma, Lace-Wing crawls out of its house
and flies away."

"Has it any cousins, like the locust?" asked Betty.

"Yes, it has cousins; the ant-lion and caddis-fly both belong to this family. But little Lace-Wing,
with its beautiful green body, gauzy wings, and golden eyes, is the most graceful member of
the family."

"How do they live when they are babies?" asked Hope.

"When they are babies," said Ben Gile, opening his eyes wide and speaking in a loud, deep voice,
"they go about like lions seeking whom they may devour."

Betty was frightened.

"No, no, child," said Mrs. Reece, "not a real lion."

"Just an aphis-lion," explained the guide, his eyes twinkling. "They are called aphis-lions
because they are very cruel to the little green plant-lice I told you about. You remember,
the plant-lice live on plants, and with their sucking beaks pump the sap from the plants. The
aphis-lions crawling over the plants come across the little aphid. Quick as a wink they stick
their sharp claws in the soft body of the plant-louse and drink the blood with their sharp-pointed
jaws. They are very fond of eggs, too, and Mamma Lace-Wing is careful of her eggs, because
she knows the mischievous ways of her children."

"What does Mamma Lace-Wing do with her eggs?" inquired Mrs. Reece.

"Each egg which she lays has a tiny stem, and the stems are fastened to a leaf or twig. When
the babies hatch out they crawl down onto the leaf and hunt around for something to eat. Perhaps
if they knew more they would crawl up the little egg stems and eat their own brothers and sisters."

"Oh, what cannibals!" cried Betty.

"Yes, it is not pleasant, this Fiji Island of the insects, but it is their nature."

"They do seek their meat from God," murmured Mrs. Reece.

"Yes, it is a mystery," answered the old man. "But, dear me, I have forgotten my story. Well,
in about ten days they find a nicely sheltered spot and spin a little silken cocoon about themselves.
In this they stay for a couple of weeks, while they are changing into grown-up lace-wings.
When they are finished they cut a round door in their silken house, spread their gauzy wings,
stretch their delicate green bodies, rub their eyes in wonder at the sunny world, and fly away
to lay some little eggs on slender stems just like those which their mothers laid and from
which they came."

"See," said Jimmie, "what a place for camping!"

"But it is too near home," objected Peter. "We could get here in two hours."

"So we could," admitted Jimmie.

"Tell us something about the cousins, sir," said Jack.

"We can't have much more now," replied the guide, "for we shall have to stop for luncheon soon.
But I'll tell you about a little fellow called the ant-lion. Along the side of almost any country
path or road, if you keep your eyes open, you may notice some day little pits of sand with
sloping sides, and down at the bottom of this is a hole. The hole is very dark, and unless
you look sharply you will think it just a hole. But if you examine it you will see a little
head and two little sharp, curved jaws. These are the jaws of the ant-lion, lying in wait to
gobble up the first passer-by. The rest of the body is in a little tunnel burrowed out in the
sand. They get their name, I suppose, because they think an ant an excellent dinner. They lie
there knowing very well that Mr. and Mrs. Ant will surely slip on the steep-sloping sides.
And if by any chance they don't, these ant-lions have been seen to throw up sand with their
heads in order to hit a helpless little ant and knock it down into the pit."

The children exclaimed at this cleverness.

"After it has eaten its fill, this cruel, greedy fellow makes a little room for itself of fine
grains of sand firmly held together with silky fibres. In this room it lies quietly, sometimes
all winter, until it changes into a grown-up ant-lion with four long, narrow wings. Then Mrs.
Ant-Lion lays her eggs in the sand, and when the young ones hatch out they build the 'pits
of destruction' which I told you about. What book is it, children, that uses the 'pit of destruction'
so often as a figure?"

"The Bible!" shouted Peter, who was the minister's son in Rangeley Village.

"Good! Now, no more for the present, and here we are at a splendid place for luncheon--clear
spring, dry ground, handy wood, and all."

The canoe beached noiselessly on the river's edge, the boys jumped out with a whoop, and soon
luncheon and frying-pans were out of the canoes, and there was the sound of the axe chopping
the dry wood, the good smell of smoke, and the sizzling of bacon. Betty and Hope went for water.
The boys fetched wood. Mrs. Reece and the guide took care of the luncheon, Mrs. Reece spreading
the table on the ground, and the guide frying the potatoes and bacon.

"Oh, mother," said Jimmie, "what does make things taste so good out-of-doors?"

"I'm sure I don't know."

"And, mother," asked Betty, "what does make everything so pretty?"

"You ask mother a hard question."

"And oh, Mrs. Reece," exclaimed Jack, his thin, eager face shining with excitement, "everything
in the world is so wonderful!"

"It's all so different in the winter," said Peter, in between bites of bread-and-butter. "It
isn't half so nice, but I suppose it would be lovely if we could have you and Mr. Gile--"

"You dear child!"

