The highest latitude to which the Hecla reached was 81 deg. 6 min. believed to be the farthest
north that ever a ship made her way; so that all that was made in the boats was 1 deg. 39 min.
At the farthest point north, no barrier of ice was seen, so that the idea of such a barrier
always existing may now be dismissed. The ice found by the present expedition was of a very
chaotic form. For about a mile, perhaps, it might be tolerably smooth; but at every interval
huge ridges were crushed up by the action of tides and currents. No sooner was this obstacle
over, and one of these rugged and precipitous masses overcome, than another appeared. There
was plenty of fresh water on the surface, but towards the end of the attempt, when the rains
fell, the ridges separated, and between them the salt sea flowed like so many canals. It was
found impossible to make any use of the rein-deer in dragging the boats; and as there were
no means of feeding dogs (as once proposed,) the whole work was performed by personal labour.
Officers and men, twenty-eight in number, were alike harnessed to the tackle, and wrought in
common at the exhausting toil. Their time for stalling in the morning (their morning being
the beginning of the night,) was chosen when the light was least injurious to the eyes; for
though the sun shone upon them during the whole period, and there was no darkness, yet when
that luminary was lowest in the horizon, the reflection from the bright white surface of snow
was more endurable. They could not, however, bear up under the fatigue. During their whole
march they were soaking wet to the knees, and benumbed by a temperature always at or near the
freezing point. At the close of twelve or fourteen hours thus occupied, when they came to seek
rest by lying down, the change of their wet for dry stockings and fur boots caused such a reaction,
that the tingling and smart were insufferable.

When Captain Parry found that the men could not support their toils on the allowance, (of about
nineteen ounces per twenty-four hours, of pemecan and biscuit-powder.) he added, by way of
luxury, a pint of hot water at night. This was found to be very restorative, warming the system;
and if a little of the dinner food had been saved, it made a broth of great relish and value.
Spirits were not drank; and the reason why even hot water was scarce, was, that it took so
large a stock of their spirits of wine to boil it and the cocoa, that the quantity consumed
could not safely be increased.

The ice itself was drifting faster to the south than they could make their way over it to the
north: thus, during the last three days of their struggle, instead of gaining a higher latitude,
they were actually two miles farther south than when they set out. This put an end to the expedition
where everything which human energy and perseverance could do, was done so fruitlessly.

While the boats were away, the Hecla was not exempt from dangers. She had been wrought into
a snug birth near the shore. A-head there were about three miles of ice; and a heavy gale coming
on, detached this prodigious mass, and drove it with terrible violence against the ship. The
cables were cut asunder, the anchors lost, and the poor Hecla forced high and dry upon the
coast, by the irresistible pressure. Having got her again to the water, however, they proceeded
to Weygatt Straits.

It is vexatious to be forced to the conviction that any attempt to reach the North Pole is
but too likely to end in disappointment; but every fresh enterprise seems to lead to this conclusion.

Hudson, whose name is perpetuated in the bay, reached lat. 82 (as is laid down) in the year
1606; and a Scottish journal states, that the Neptune whaler, in 1816, got as high as 83 deg.
20 min.; but of the accuracy of this statement we have great doubts.

The Land Arctic Expedition.--About the end of June, 1826, Captain Franklin arrived at the last
of the Hudson Bay company's posts, named Fort Good Hope, in lat. 67 deg. 28 min. N., long.
130 deg. 53 min. W.; with the expedition under his command in excellent health and spirits.

Three days' journey from thence, on the 4th of July, he despatched a party to the eastward,
under the command of Dr. Richardson, and proceeded himself, in command of another party, by
the western channel of Mackenzie's river, which flows at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, and
completed a survey of the coast from long. 113 deg. W. to 149 deg. 38 min. W. He was much impeded
in his progress by the constant obstruction of ice, unbroken from the shore, in many parts,
until the 4th of August--by the prevalence of fogs--and by the nature of the sea coast, which
to the westward of the 140th degree is so extremely low and flat as to be unapproachable, even
in boats, nearer than two or three miles. Indeed, beyond the 139th degree it was found impossible
to land on the main shore, except at one point; and there they were most vexatiously detained
eight days, in the best part of the season, by fog.

Before Captain Franklin had reached more than half way to Icy Cape, most of his party shewed
symptoms of extreme suffering, from their unavoidable exposure to wading in the water, for
the purpose of dragging the boats where they landed to rest or to get fresh water, or when
compelled by gales to seek the shore. The temperature of the water was generally about the
freezing-point, whilst that of the air seldom exceeded 36 degrees. The coast westward of Mackenzie's
river, under any circumstances, was extremely hazardous to navigate; but under the difficulties
which Captain Franklin experienced, further perseverance on his part would have been unpardonable
rashness. The whole party being of opinion that the obstructions were insurmountable, were
compelled to return, in the conviction, however, that the navigation of the northwest passage
is open.

The eastern party, under Dr. Richardson, who was accompanied by Mr. Kendall, an intelligent
young officer, succeeded in reaching the Coppermine river on the 8th of August, and returned
to Fort Franklin, Great Bear Lake, on the 1st of September. Like that under the command of
Captain Franklin, they experienced repeated obstructions from ice, and occasionally from strong
breezes; but they were spared the foggy weather, except on parts of two days.

The object of Dr. Richardson's party was to examine the intermediate coast between the Mackenzie
and the coppermine rivers. After separating from Captain Franklin, on the 4th of July, they
pursued the easternmost channel of the Mackenzie, until the 7th of that month, when finding
that it distributed itself by various outlets, of which the more easterly were not navigable,
for their boats, they chose a middle one, and that night got into brackish water, with an open
view of the sea, in lat. 69 deg. 29 min. N., long. 133 deg. 24 min. W.

On the 11th, in lat. 69 deg. 42 min. N., long. 132 deg. 10 min. W., the water was perfectly
salt, the sea partially covered with drift ice, and no land visible to seaward. They experienced
considerable difficulty in crossing the estuaries of several rivers, which were deemed to be
outlets of the shallow channels of the Mackenzie, that had been left to the eastward. They
suffered, besides, some detention from ice and bad weather; and it was not until the 18th of
July that, in lat. 70 deg. 37 min., long. 126 deg. 52 min. N., they got entirely clear of the
widely spreading mouths of the Mackenzie, and of a large lake of brackish water, which seems
to receive one of the branches of that river. The navigation across these wide estuaries was
very embarrassing.

