Fixed Rotating Hooks.--Wilson's rotating hook for lock stitch machines, and Gribbs' hook for
single thread machines, are both well known. In the year 1872, the Wheeler & Wilson company
introduced a new hook, forming an improvement upon Wilson's original device (Fig. 3). Its chief
peculiarity consists in the extension of the termination of the periphery, forming a long tail
piece, quite overlapping the point, and serving as a guard, both to keep off the bobbin thread
and to prevent collision between bobbin and needle.

This improved class of hooks are provided with a much deeper cavity than those first introduced,
an arrangement permitting of the employment of a more commodious bobbin, which is generally
covered by a cap, as in the revolving shuttle, but free to revolve. In some cases the cap carries
a tension plate preventing its revolution with the hook. But beyond these improvements on Wilson's
original device, the utility of the hook mainly depends upon two things quite apart from the
hook itself. These are the dispensing with the old fashioned check brush and the use of a positive
take-up.

Thus, in the original machine, the stitch was pulled up by the succeeding revolution of the
hook. For while one revolution sufficed to cast it over the spool, a second turn was requisite
to complete the stitch. In this way, to make a first stitch with such an apparatus required
two turns of the rotating hook. The improvements mentioned enable the machine to complete a
stitch with one turn of the hook--an important step in advance, when we consider that by the
old method each length of slack thread must be tightened up solely through the fabric and the
needle eye. But this particular arrangement bears so much upon the introduction of the positive
take-up itself that further reference to it must be reserved until that device has been described.

Simple Thread Hooks.--The best known of these is Willcox & Gibbs. It has been so often described,
that no further reference to it may be made. It continues to make the same excellent twisted
stitch as it produced twenty-five years ago.

Of Vibrating Shuttles.--These are shuttles of the long description, moving in a segment of
a circle. There are several varieties. The most novel machine of this kind is the vibrating
shuttle machine just produced by the Singer Manufacturing Company. In this case the shuttle
itself consists of a steel tube, into the open end of which the wound reel is dropped, and
is free to revolve quite loosely. Variation of tension is thus obviated in a very simple manner.
The chief point of interest in the machine is undoubtedly the means employed in transferring
the motion from the main shaft to the underneath parts, an arrangement as ingenious and effective
as any device ever introduced into stitching mechanism. It is the invention of Mr. Robert Whitehall,
and consists of a vertical rocking shaft situated in the arm of the machine Motion is imparted
to it by means of an elbow formed upon the main shaft acting upon two arms, called wipers,
projecting from the rocking shaft, the angle formed by the arms exactly coinciding with that
of the elbow in its revolution. This admirable motion will no doubt attract much attention
from mechanists and engineers.

The Lock Stitch from Two Reels.--In the early days of the sewing machine, the makers of it
often met with the question, "Why do you use a shuttle at all? Can you not invent a method
of working from a reel direct?" The questioner generally means a reel placed upon a pin, just
as the upper reel is placed. The reply to such a query is, of course, that to produce the lock
stitch in that way is impossible--as indeed it is.

