So Horace will enter into no entangling alliances with ambition for power, wealth, or position,
or with the more personal passions. By some of them he has not been altogether untouched, and
he has not regret; but to continue, at forty-five, would not do. He will be content with just
his home in the Sabine hills. This is what he always prayed for, a patch of ground, not so
very large, with a spring of ever-flowing water, a garden, and a little timberland. He asks
for nothing more, except that a kindly fate will make these beloved possessions forever his
own. He will go to the ant, for she is an example, and consider her ways and be wise, and be
content with what he has as soon as it is enough. He will not enter the field of public life,
because it would mean the sacrifice of peace. He would have to keep open house, submit to the
attentions of a body-guard of servants, keep horses and carriage and a coachman, and be the
target for shafts of envy and malice; in a word, lose his freedom and become the slave of wretched
and burdensome ambition.

The price is too great, the privilege not to his liking.

II. HORACE THROUGH THE AGES

INTRODUCTORY

Thus much we have had to say in the interpretation of Horace. Our interpretation has centered
about his qualities as a person: his broad experience, his sensitiveness, his responsiveness,
his powers of assimilation, his gift of expression, his concreteness as a representative of
the world of culture, as a son of Italy, as a citizen of eternal Rome, as a member of the universal
human family.

Let us now tell the story of Horace in the life of after times. It will include an account
of the esteem in which he was held while still in the flesh; of the fame he enjoyed and the
influence he exercised until Rome as a great empire was no more and the Roman tongue and Roman
spirit alike were decayed; of the way in which his works were preserved intact through obscure
centuries of ignorance and turmoil; and of their second birth when men began to delight once
more in the luxuries of the mind. This will prepare the way for a final chapter, on the peculiar
quality and manner of the Horatian influence.

1. HORACE THE PROPHET

Horace is aware of his qualities as a poet. In an interesting blend, of which the first and
larger part is detached and judicial estimation of his work, a second part literary convention,
and the third and least a smiling and inoffensive self-assertion, he prophesies his own immortality.

From infancy he has been set apart as the child of the Muses. At birth Melpomene marked him
for her own. The doves of ancient story covered him over with the green leaves of the Apulian
wood as, lost and overcome by weariness, he lay in peaceful slumber, and kept him safe from
creeping and four-footed things, a babe secure in the favor of heaven. The sacred charm that
rests upon him preserved him in the rout at Philippi, rescued him from the Sabine wolf, saved
him from death by the falling tree and the waters of shipwreck. He will abide under its shadow
wherever he may go,--to his favorite haunts in Latium, to the far north where fierce Britons
offer up the stranger to their gods, to the far east and the blazing sands of the Syrian desert,
to rude Spain and the streams of Scythia, to the treeless, naked fields of the frozen pole,
to homeless lands under the fiery car of the too-near sun. He will rise superior to the envy
of men. The pinions that bear him aloft through the clear ether will be of no usual or flagging
sort. For him there shall be no death, no Stygian wave across which none returns:

  Forego the dirge; let no one raise the cry,
    Or make unseemly show of grief and gloom,
  Nor think o'er me, who shall not really die,
    To rear the empty honor of the tomb.

His real self will remain among men, ever springing afresh in their words of praise:

  Not lasting bronze nor pyramid upreared
  By princes shall outlive my powerful rhyme.
  The monument I build, to men endeared,
  Not biting rain, nor raging wind, nor time,
  Endlessly flowing through the countless years,
  Shall e'er destroy. I shall not wholly die;
  The grave shall have of me but what appears;
  For me fresh praise shall ever multiply.
  As long as priest and silent Vestal wind
  The Capitolian steep, tongues shall tell o'er
  How humble Horace rose above his kind
  Where Aufidus's rushing waters roar
  In the parched land where rustic Daunus reigned,
  And first taught Grecian numbers how to run
  In Latin measure. Muse! the honor gained
  Is thine, for I am thine till time is done.
  Gracious Melpomene, O hear me now,
  And with the Delphic bay gird round my brow.

Yet Horace does not always refer to his poetry in this serious vein; if indeed we are to call
serious a manner of literary prophecy which has always been more or less conventional. His
frequent disclaimers of the higher inspiration are well known. The Muse forbids him to attempt
the epic strain or the praise of Augustus and Agrippa. In the face of grand themes like these,
his genius is slight. He will not essay even the strain of Simonides in the lament for an Empire
stained by land and sea with the blood of fratricidal war. His themes shall be rather the feast
and the mimic battles of revelling youths and maidens, the making of love in the grots of Venus.
His lyre shall be jocose, his plectrum of the lighter sort.

He not only half-humorously disclaims the capacity for lofty themes, but, especially as he
grows older and more philosophic, and perhaps less lyric, half-seriously attributes whatever
he does to persevering effort. He believes in the file, in long delay before giving forth to
the world the poem that henceforth can never be recalled. The only inspiration he claims for
Satire and Epistle, which, he says, approximate the style of spoken discourse, lies in the
aptness and patience with which he fashions his verses from language in ordinary use, giving
to words new dignity by means of skillful combination. Let anyone who wishes to be convinced
undertake to do the same; he will find himself perspiring in a vain attempt.

And if Horace did not always conceive of his inspiration as purely ethereal, neither did he
always dream of the path to immortality as leading through the spacious reaches of the upper
air. At forty-four, he is already aware of a more pedestrian path. He has observed the ways
of the public with literature, as any writer must observe them still, and knows also of a certain
use to which his poems are being put. Perhaps with some secret pride, but surely with a philosophic
resignation that is like good-humored despair, he sees that the path is pedagogical. In reproachful
tones, he addresses the book of Epistles that is so eager to try its fortune in the big world:
But if the prophet is not blinded by disgust at your foolishness, you will be prized at Rome
until the charm of youth has left you. Then, soiled and worn by much handling of the common
crowd, you will either silently give food to vandal worms, or seek exile in Utica, or be tied
up and sent to Ilerda. The monitor you did not heed will laugh, like the man who sent his balky
ass headlong over the cliff; for who would trouble to save anyone against his will? This lot,
too, you may expect: for a stammering old age to come upon you teaching children to read in
the out-of-the-way parts of town.

2. HORACE AND ANCIENT ROME

That Horace refers to being pointed out by the passer-by as the minstrel of the Roman lyre,
or, in other words, as the laureate, that his satire provokes sufficient criticism to draw
from him a defense and a justification of himself against the charge of cynicism, and that
he finally records a greater freedom from the tooth of envy, are all indications of the prominence
to which he rose. That Virgil and Varius, poets of recognized worth, and their friend Plotius
Tucca, third of the whitest souls of earth, introduced him to the attention of Maecenas, and
that the discriminating lover of excellence became his patron and made him known to Augustus,
are evidences of the appeal of which he was capable both as poet and man. In the many names
of worthy and distinguished men of letters and affairs to whom he addresses the individual
poems, and with whom he must therefore have been on terms of mutual respect, is seen a further
proof. Even Virgil contains passages disclosing a more than ordinary familiarity with Horace's
work, and men like Ovid and Propertius, of whose personal relations with Horace nothing is
known, not only knew but absorbed his poems.

If still further evidence of Horace's worth is required, it may be seen in his being invited
to commemorate the exploits of Drusus and Tiberius, the royal stepsons, against the hordes
of the North, and the greatness of Augustus himself, ever-present help of Italy, and imperial
Rome; and in the Emperor's expression of disappointment, sometime before the second book of
Epistles was published, that he had been mentioned in none of the "Talks." And, finally, if
there remained in the minds of his generation any shadow of doubt as to the esteem in which
he was held by the foremost men in the State, who were in most cases men of letters as well
as patrons of letters, it was dispelled when, in the year 17, Horace was chosen to write the
Secular Hymn, for use in the greatest religious and patriotic festival of the times.

These facts receive greater significance from an appreciation of the poet's sincerity and independence.
He will restore to Maecenas his gifts, if their possession is to mean a curb upon the freedom
of living his nature calls for. He declines a secretaryship to the Emperor himself, and without
offense to his imperial friend, who bids him be free of his house as if it were his own.

But Horace must submit also to the more impartial judgment of time. Of the two innovations
which gave him relief against the general background, one was the amplification of the crude
but vigorous satire of Lucilius into a more perfect literary character, and the other was the
persuasion of the Greek lyric forms into Roman service. Both examples had their important effects
within the hundred years that followed on Horace's death.

The satire and epistle, which Horace hardly distinguished, giving to both the name of Sermo,
or "Talk," was the easier to imitate. Persius, dying in the year 62, at the age of twenty-eight,
was steeped in Horace, but lacked the gentle spirit, the genial humor, and the suavity of expression
that make Horatian satire a delight. In Juvenal, writing under Trajan and Hadrian, the tendency
of satire toward consistent aggressiveness which is present in Horace and further advanced
in Persius, has reached its goal. With Juvenal, satire is a matter of the lash, of vicious
cut and thrust. Juvenal may tell the truth, but the smiling face of Horatian satire has disappeared.
With him the line of Roman satire is extinct, but the nature of satire for all time to come
is fixed. Juvenal, employing the form of Horace and substituting for his content of mellow
contentment and good humor the bitterness of an outraged moral sense, is the last Roman and
the first modern satirist.

The Odes found more to imitate them, but none to rival. The most pronounced example of their
influence is found in the choruses of the tragic poet Seneca, where form and substance alike
are constantly reminiscent of Horace. Two comments on the Odes from the second half of the
first century are of even greater eloquence than Seneca's example as testimonials to the impression
made by the Horatian lyric. Petronius, of Nero's time, speaks of the poet's curiosa felicitas,
meaning the gift of arriving, by long and careful search, at the inevitable word or phrase.
Quintilian, writing his treatise on Instruction, sums him up thus: "Of our lyric poets, Horace
is about the only one worth reading; for he sometimes reaches real heights, and he is at the
same time full of delightfulness and grace, and both in variety of imagery and in words is
most happily daring." To these broad strokes the modern critic has added little except by way
of elaboration.

The Life of Horace, written by Suetonius, the secretary of Hadrian, contains evidence of another,
and perhaps a stronger, character regarding the poet's power. We see that doubtful imitations
are beginning to circulate. "I possess," says the imperial secretary, "some elegies attributed
to his pen, and a letter in prose, supposed to be a recommendation of himself to Maecenas,
but I think that both are spurious; for the elegies are commonplace, and the letter is, besides,
obscure, which was by no means one of his faults."

The history of Roman literature from the end of the first century after Christ is the story
of the decline of inspiration, the decline of taste, the decline of language, the decline of
intellectual interest. Beneath it all and through it all there is spreading, gradually and
silently, the insidious decay that will surely crumble the constitution of the ancient world.
Pagan letters are uncreative, and, with few exceptions, without imagination and dull. The literature
of the new religion, beginning to push green shoots from the ruins of the times, is a mingling
of old and new substance under forms that are always old.

In the main, neither Christian nor pagan will be attracted by Horace. The Christian will see
in his gracious resignation only the philosophy of despair, and in his light humors only careless
indulgence in the vanities of this world and blindness to the eternal concerns of life. The
pagan will not appreciate the delicacy of his art, and will find the abundance of his literary,
mythological, historical, and geographical allusion, the compactness of his expression, and
the maturity and depth of his intellect, a barrier calling for too much effort. Both will prefer
Virgil--Virgil of "arms and the man," the story-teller, Virgil the lover of Italy, Virgil the
glorifier of Roman deeds and destiny, Virgil the readily understood, Virgil who has already
drawn aside, at least partly, the veil that hangs before the mystic other-world, Virgil the
almost Christian prophet, with the almost Biblical language, Virgil the spiritual, Virgil the
comforter.

Horace will not be popular. He will remain the poet of the few who enjoy the process of thinking
and recognize the charm of skillful expression. Tacitus and Juvenal esteem him, the Emperor
Alexander Severus reads him in leisure hours, the long list of mediocrities representing the
course of literary history demonstrate by their content that the education of men of letters
in general includes a knowledge of him. The greatest of the late pagans,--Ausonius and Claudian
at the end of the fourth century; Boëthius, philosopher-victim of Theodoric in the early sixth;
Cassiodorus, the chronicler, imperial functionary in the same century,--disclose a familiarity
whose foundations are to be looked for in love and enthusiasm rather than in mere cultivation.
It may be safely assumed that, in general, appreciation of Horace was proportionate to greatness
of soul and real love of literature.

The same assumption may be made in the realm of Christian literature. Minucius Felix, calmly
and logically arguing the case of Christianity against paganism, Tertullian the fiery preacher,
Cyprian the enthusiast and martyr, Arnobius the rhetorical, contain no indications of familiarity
with Horace, though this is not conclusive proof that they did not know and admire him; but
Lactantius, the Christian Cicero, Jerome, the sympathetic, the sensitive, the intense, the
irascible, Prudentius, the most original and the most vigorous of the Christian poets, and
even Venantius Fortunatus, bishop and traveler in the late sixth century, and last of the Christian
poets while Latin was still a native tongue, display a knowledge of Horace which argues also
a love for him.

The name of Venantius Fortunatus brings us to the very brink of the centuries called the Middle
Age. If there are those who object to the name of Dark Age as doing injustice to the life of
the times, they must at any rate agree that for Horace it was really dark. That his light was
not totally lost in the shadows which enveloped the art of letters was due to one aspect of
his immortality which we must notice before leaving the era of ancient Rome.

Thus far, in accounting for Horace's continued fame, we have considered only his appeal to
the individual intellect and taste, the admiration which represented an interest spontaneous
and sincere. There was another phase of his fame which expressed an interest less inspired,
though its first cause was none the less in the enthusiasm of the elect. It was the phase foreseen
by Horace himself, and its first manifestations had probably appeared in his own life-time.
It was the immortality of the text-book and the commentary.

Quintilian's estimate of Horace in the Institutes is an indication that the poet was already
a subject of school instruction in the latter half of the first century. Juvenal, in the first
quarter of the next, gives us a chiaroscuro glimpse into a Roman school-interior where little
boys are sitting at their desks in early morning, each with odorous lamp shining upon school
editions of Horace and Virgil smudged and discolored by soot from the wicks,

        totidem olfecisse lucernas,
  Quot stabant pueri, cum totus decolor esset
  Flaccus et haereret nigro fuligo Maroni.
(VII. 225 ff.)

The use of the poet in the schools meant that lovers of learning as well as lovers of literary
art were occupying themselves with Horace. The first critical edition of his works, by Marcus
Valerius Probus, appeared as early as the time of Nero. A native of Berytus, the modern Beirut,
disappointed in the military career, he turned to the collection, study, and critical editing
of Latin authors, among whom, besides Horace, were Virgil, Lucretius, Persius, and Terence.
His method, comprising careful comparison of manuscripts, emendations, and punctuation, with
annotations explanatory and aesthetic, all prefaced by the author's biography, won him the
reputation of the most erudite of Roman men of letters. It is in no small measure due to him
that the tradition of Horace's text is so comparatively good.

There were many other critics and interpreters of Horace. Of many of them, the names as well
as the works have been lost. Modestus and Claranus, perhaps not long after Probus, are two
names that survive. Suetonius, as we have seen, wrote the poet's Life, though it contains almost
nothing not found in the works of Horace themselves. In the time of Hadrian appeared also the
edition of Quintus Terentius Scaurus, in ten books, of which the Odes and Epodes made five,
and the Satires and Epistles five, the Ars Poetica being set apart as a book in itself. At
the end of the second or the beginning of the third century, Helenius Acro wrote commentaries
on certain plays of Terence and on Horace, giving special attention to the persons appearing
in the poet's pages, a favorite subject on which a considerable body of writing sprang up.
Not long afterward appeared the commentary of Pomponius Porphyrio, originally published with
the text of Horace, but later separately. In spite of modifications wrought in the course of
time, only Porphyrio's, of all the commentaries of the first three hundred years, has preserved
an approximation to its original character and quantity. Acro's has been overlaid by other
commentators until the identity of his work is lost. The purpose of Porphyrio was to bring
poetic beauty into relief by clarifying construction and sense, rather than to engage in learned
exposition of the subject matter.

Finally, in the year 527, the consul Vettius Agorius Basilius Mavortius, with the collaboration
of one Felix, revised the text of at least the Odes and Epodes, and perhaps also of the Satires
and Epistles. That there were many other editions intervening between Porphyrio's and his,
there can be little doubt.

This review of scant and scattered, but consistent, evidence is proof enough of Horace's hold
upon the intellectual and literary leaders of the ancient Roman world. For the individual pagan
who clung to the old order, he represented more acceptably than anyone else, or anyone else
but Virgil, the ideal of a glorious past, and afforded consequently something of inspiration
for the decaying present. Upon men who, whether pagan or Christian, were possessed by literary
enthusiasms, and upon men who delighted in contemplation of the human kind, he cast the spell
of art and humanity. Those who caught the fire directly may indeed have been few, but they
were men of parts whose fire was communicated.

As for the influence exercised by Horace upon Roman society at large through generation after
generation of schoolboys as the centuries passed, its depth and breadth cannot be measured.
It may be partly appreciated, however, by those who realize from their own experience both
as pupils and teachers the effect upon growing and impressionable minds of a literature rich
in morality and patriotism, and who reflect upon the greater amplitude of literary instruction
among the ancients, by whom a Homer, a Virgil, or a Horace was made the vehicle of discipline
so broad and varied as to be an education in itself.

3. HORACE AND THE MIDDLE AGE

There is no such thing as a line marking definitely the time when ancient Rome ceased to be
itself and became the Rome of the Middle Age. If there were such a line, we should probably
have crossed it already, whether in recording the last real Roman setting of the Horatian house
in order by Mavortius in 527, or in referring to Venantius Fortunatus, the last of the Latin
Christian poets. The usual date marking the end of the Western Empire, 476, is only the convenient
sign for the culmination of the movement long since begun in the interferences of an army composed
more and more of a non-Italian, Northern soldiery, and ending in a final mutiny or revolt which
assumed the character of invasion and the permanent seizure of civil as well as military authority.
The coming of Odoacer is the ultimate stage in the process of Roman and Italian exhaustion,
the sign that life is not longer possible except through infusion of northern blood.

The military and political change itself was only exterior, the outward demonstration of deep-seated
maladies. The too-successful bureaucratization of Augustus and such of his successors as were
really able and virtuous, the development of authority into tyranny by such as were neither
able nor virtuous, but mad and wilful, had removed from Roman citizenship the responsibility
which in the olden time had made it strong; and the increase of taxes, assessments, and compulsory
honors involving personal contribution, had substituted for responsibility and privilege a
burden so heavy that under it the civic life of the Empire was crushed to extinction. In Italy,
above all, the ancient seed was running out. Under the influence of economic and social movement,
the old stock had died and disappeared, or changed beyond recognition. The old language, except
in the mouths and from the pens of the few, was fast losing its identity. Uncertainty, indifference,
stagnation, weariness of body, mind, and soul, leaden resignation and despair, forgetfulness
of the glories of the past in art and even in heroism, were the inheritance of the last generations
of the old order. Jerome felt barbarism closing in: Romanus orbis ruit, he says,--the Roman
world is tumbling in ruins.

In measure as the vitality of pagan Rome was sapped, into the inert and decaying mass there
penetrated gradually the two new life-currents of a new religion and a new blood. The change
they wrought from the first century to the descent of the Northerners was not sudden, nor was
it rapid. Nor was it always a change that carried visible warrant of virtue. The mingling of
external races in the army and in trade, the interference of a Northern soldiery in the affairs
of the throne, the more peaceful but more intimate shuffling of the population through the
social and economic emergence of the one-time nameless and poor, whether of native origin or
foreign, may have contributed fresh blood to an anaemic society, but the result most apparent
to the eye and most disturbing to the soul was the debasement of standards and the fears that
naturally come with violent, sudden, or merely unfamiliar change. The new religion may have
contributed new hope and erected new standards, but it also contributed exaggerations, contradictions,
and new uncertainties. The life of logic began to be displaced by the life of feeling.

The change and turmoil of the times that attended and followed the crumbling of the Roman world
were favorable neither to the production of letters nor to the enjoyment of a literary heritage.
Goth, Byzantine, Lombard, Frank, German, Saracen, and Norman made free of the soil of Italy.
If men were not without leisure, they were without the leisure of peaceful and careful contemplation,
and lacked the buoyant heart without which assimilation of art is hardly less possible than
creation. Ignorance had descended upon the world, and gross darkness covered the people. The
classical authors were solid, the meat of vigorous minds. Their language, never the facile
language of the people and the partially disciplined, now became a resisting medium that was
foreign to the general run of men. Their syntax was archaic and crabbed, their metres forgotten.
Their substance, never grasped without effort, was now not only difficult, but became the abstruse
matter of another people and another age. To all but the cultivated few, they were known for
anything but what they really were. It was an age of Virgil the mysterious prophet of the coming
of Christ, of Virgil the necromancer. Real knowledge withdrew to secret and secluded refuges.

If the classical authors in general were beyond the powers and outside the affection of men,
Horace was especially so. More intellectual than Virgil, and less emotional, in metrical forms
for the most part lost to their knowledge and liking, the poet of the individual heart rather
than of men in the national or racial mass, the poet strictly of this world and in no respect
of the next, he almost vanished from the life of men.

Yet the classics were not all lost, and not even Horace perished. Strange to say, and yet not
really strange, the most potent active influence in the destruction of his appeal to men was
also the most effective instrument of his preservation. Through the darkness and the storms
of the nine hundred years following the fall of the Western Empire, Horace was sheltered under
the wing of the Church.

It was a natural exaggeration for Christianity to begin by teaching absolute separation from
the world, and to declare, through the mouths of such as Tertullian, that the blood of Christ
alone sufficed and nothing more was needed, and that literature and all the other arts of paganism,
together with its manners, were so inseparable from its religion that every part was anathema.
It was natural that Horace, more than Virgil, should be the object of its neglect, and even
of its active enmity. Horace is the most completely pagan of poets whose works are of spiritual
import. The only immortality of which he takes account is the immortality of fame. Aside from
this, the end of man is dust and shadow.

It is true that in the depth of his heart he does not feel with Democritus, Epicurus, and Lucretius
that "Dust thou art, to dust returnest" is spoken of soul as well as body. The old Roman instinct
for ancestor-communion is too strong in him for that. But he acquiesces in their doctrine in
so far as shadowy existence in another world inspires in him no pleasing hope. He displays
no trace of the faith in the supernatural which accompanies the Christian hope of happy immortality.
He contains none of the expressions of yearning for communion with the divine, of self-abasement
in the presence of the eternal, which belong to Christian poetry. The flights of his muse rarely
take him into the realm of a divine love and providence. His aspirations are for things achievable
in this world: for faithfulness in friendship, for enduring courage, for irreproachable patriotism,--in
short, for ideal human relations.

Horace's idealism is not Christian idealism, and is only in a limited way even spiritual idealism.
When he prays, it is likely to be for others rather than himself, and for temporal blessings
only: for the success of Augustus at home and in the field, for prolongation of Maecenas' life
and happiness, for the weal of the State, for the nurslings of his little flock, for health
of body and contentment of heart. His dwelling is not in the secret place of the Most High.
Philosophy, not religion, is his refuge and his fortress. In philosophy, not in God, will he trust.

In a word, Horace is logical, self-reliant, and self-sufficient. He sees no happy future after
this life, is conscious of no providence watching over him, is involved in no obligation to
the beings of an eternal world. He looks this world and the next, gods and men, directly in
the face, and expects other men to do the same. Life and its duties are for him clear-cut.
He is no propounder of problems, no searcher after hidden purposes. He lacks almost absolutely
the feverish aspiration and unrest which characterize Christian and other humanitarian modes
of thought and sentiment, and whose manifestation is one of the best known features of recent
modern times, as it was of the earliest Christian experience.

But Christianity was a religion of men, and therefore human. If its exaggerations were natural,
its reservations and its reactions were also natural. There were men whose admiration continued
to be roused and whose affections continued to be touched by Virgil and Horace. There were
men whose reason as well as whose instinct impelled them to employ the classic authors and
the classic arts in the service of the new religion. Christianity possessed no distinct and
separate media of expression and no separate body of knowledge which could bear fruit as matter
of instruction. Pagan art and literature were indispensable whether for the study of history
or of mere humanity. Christianity was therefore compelled to employ the old forms of art, which
involved the use of the old instrumentalities of literary education. When, finally, paganism
had fallen under its repeated assaults, what had been forced use became a matter of choice,
and the classics were taken under the Church's protection and marked with her approval.

The data regarding Horace in the Middle Age are few, but they are clear. We need not examine
them all in order to draw conclusions.

The monastic idea, of eastern origin and given currency in the West by Jerome, was first reduced
to systematic practice by Benedict, who created the first Rule at Monte Cassino about the time
of the Mavortian recension of Horace, in 527. New moral strength issued from the cloisters
now rapidly established. Cassiodorus, especially active in promoting the spiritual phase of
monkish retreat, made the intellectual life also his concern. Monte Cassino, between Naples
and Rome, and Bobbio, in the northern part of the peninsula, were the great Italian centers.
The Benedictine influence spread to Ireland, which before the end of the sixth century became
a stronghold of the movement and an inspiration to England, Germany, France, and even Italy,
where Bobbio itself was founded by Columban and his companions. St. Gall in Switzerland, Fulda
at Hersfeld in Hesse-Nassau, Corvey in Saxony, Iona in Scotland, Tours in France, Reichenau
on Lake Constance, were all active centers of religion and learning within two hundred years
from Benedict's death.

The monasteries not only afforded the spiritual enthusiast the opportunity of separation from
the world of temptation and storm, but were equally inviting to men devoted first of all to
the intellectual life. The scholar and the educator found within their walls not only peaceful
escape from the harshnesses of political change and military broil, but the opportunity to
labor usefully and unmolested in the occupation that pleased them most. The cloister became
a Christian institute. The example of Cassiodorus was followed two hundred years later on a
larger scale by Charlemagne. Schools were founded both in cloister and at court, scholars summoned,
manuscripts copied, the life of pagan antiquity studied, and the bond between the languages
and cultures of present and past made firmer. The schools of the old régime had fallen away
in the sixth century, when Northern rule had closed the civic career to natives of Italy. A
great advance in the intellectual life now laid the foundations of all cultural effort in the
Middle Age.

No small part of this advance was due to the preservation of manuscripts by copying. In this
activity France was first, so far as Horace was concerned. The copies by the scribes of Charlemagne
went back to Mavortius and Porphyrio, the originals of which were probably discovered at Bobbio
by his scholars. Of the two hundred and fifty manuscripts in existence, the greater part are
French in origin, the oldest being the Bernensis, of the ninth or tenth century, from near
Orléans. Germany was a worthy second to France. The finds in monastery libraries of both countries
in the humanist movement of the fifteenth century were especially rich. Italy, on the contrary,
preserved few manuscripts of her poet, and none that is really ancient. Italy began the great
monastery movement, but disorder and change were against the diffusion of culture. Charlemagne's
efforts probably had little to do with Italy. The Church seems to have had no care to preserve
the ancient culture of her native land.

What this meant in terms of actual acquaintance with the poet would not be clear without evidence
of other kinds. By the end of the sixth century, knowledge of Horace was already vague. He
was not read in Africa, Spain, or Gaul. Read in Italy up to Charlemagne's time, a hundred years
later his works are not to be found in the catalogue of Bobbio, one of the greatest seats of
learning. What the general attitude of the Church's leadership toward him was, may be conjectured
from the declaration of Gregory the Great against all beauty in writing. Its general capacity
for Horace may perhaps be surmised also from the confession of the Pope's contemporary, Gregory
of Tours, that he is unfamiliar with the ancient literary languages. The few readers of the
late Empire had become fewer still. The difficult form and matter of the Odes, and their unadaptability
to religious and moral use, disqualified them for the approval of all but the individual scholar
or literary enthusiast. The moralities of the Epistles were more tractable, and formed the
largest contribution to the Florilegia, or flower-collections, that were circulated by themselves.
Horace did not contain the facile and stimulating tales of Ovid, he was not a Virgil the story-teller
and almost Christian, his lines did not exercise a strong appeal to the ear, he was not an
example of the rhetorical, like Lucan, his satire did not lend itself, like a Juvenal's, to
universal condemnation of paganism.

In the eighth century, Columban knows Horace, the Venerable Bede cites him four times, and
Alcuin is called a Flaccus. The York catalogue of Alcuin shows the presence of most of the
classic authors. Paul the Deacon, who wrote a poem in the Sapphics he learned from Horace,
is declared, he says, to be like Homer, Flaccus, and Virgil, but ungratefully and ungraciously
adds, "men like that I'll compare with dogs." In Spain, Saint Isidore of Seville knew Horace
in the seventh century, though the Rule of Isidore, as of some other monastic legislators,
forbade the use of pagan authors without special permission; yet the coming of the Arabs in
the eighth century, and the struggle between the Gothic, Christian, and Islamic civilizations
resulted, for the next six or seven centuries, in what seems total oblivion of the poet.

In the ninth and tenth centuries, under the impulse of the Carolingian favor, France, in which
there is heretofore no evidence of Horace's presence from the end of Roman times, becomes the
greatest center of manuscript activity, the Bernensis and six Parisian exemplars dating from
this period. Yet the indexes of St. Gall, Reichenau, and Bobbio contain the name of no work
of Horace, and only Nevers and Loesch contained his complete works. The Ecbasis Captivi, an
animal-epic appearing at Toul in 940, has one fifth of its verses formed out of Horace in the
manner of the cento, or patchwork. At about the same time, the famous Hrosvitha of Gandersheim
writes her six Christian dramas patterned after Terence, and in them uses Horace. Mention by
Walter of Speyer, and interest shown by the active monastery on the Tegernsee, are of the same
period. The tenth century is sometimes spoken of as the Latin Renaissance under the Ottos,
the first of whom, called the Great, crowned Emperor at Rome in 962, welcomed scholars at his
court and made every effort to promote learning.

The momentum of intellectual interest is not lost in the eleventh century. Paris becomes its
most ardent center, with Reims, Orléans, and Fleury also of note. The Codex Parisinus belongs
to this period. German activity, too, is at its height, especially in the education of boys
for the church. Italy affords one catalogue mention, of a Horace copied under Desiderius. Peter
Damian was its man of greatest learning, but the times were intellectually stagnant. The popes
were occupied by rivalry with the emperors. It was the century of Gregory the Seventh and Canossa.

