     "'The guard was strengthened, a portion of the fence taken
     down and a piece of artillery stationed at the corners to
     sweep down the crowd, should an outbreak occur. This we had
     thought of for some time, and a plan of action was decided
     upon. At a given signal all within the enclosure were to
     make a break for that part of the fence nearest them, and
     then scatter, each one for himself. Of course, some would
     probably be killed, but it was hoped most would escape
     before the guards could load and fire a second time. This
     plot, which was to have been carried out at midnight, was
     discovered the previous afternoon. The inside guard,
     separating the enlisted-men from the officers, had become
     more vigilant, and the only means of communication was to
     attach a note to a stone and throw it across. This an
     officer attempted. The note fell short; the sentry picked it
     up, called the corporal of the guard, who took it to the
     officer of the guard, and in less than five minutes the
     whole arrangement was known. Two hours afterward we were
     formed in line and learned that we were to change our
     quarters. We had then been in Salisbury twenty days. Before
     we left one of our mess found and brought away a bound copy
     of Harper's Magazine. It proved a boon to us, as it served
     for a pillow for one of us at night, and was being read by
     some one from dawn until night, until we had all read it
     through, when we traded it off for a volume of the Portland
     Transcript.

     "'We were packed in box cars and started North. The next
     morning we arrived at Danville and were confined in a
     tobacco warehouse, built of brick and about eighty feet
     long, forty wide, and three stories high. When we first
     entered the prison the ration was fair in quantity. We had
     from twelve to sixteen ounces of corn-bread, and from two to
     four ounces of beef or a cup of pea-soup, but never beef and
     soup the same day. True, the soup would have an abundance of
     worms floating about in it, but these we would skim off, and
     trying to forget we had seen them, eat with a relish. Hunger
     will drive one to eat almost anything, as we learned from
     bitter experience. About the 1st of November the soup and
     beef ration began to decrease, and from the middle of the
     month to the 20th of February, when I was paroled, not a
     ration of meat or soup was issued. Nothing but corn-bread,
     made from unbolted meal, and water, and that growing less
     and less. Sometimes I would divide my ration into three
     parts and resolve to make it last all day, but invariably it
     would be gone before noon. Generally I would eat the whole
     ration at once, but that did not satisfy my hunger, and I
     had to go without a crumb for the next twenty-four hours. To
     illustrate how inadequate the ration was, I can say that I
     have seen officers picking potato-peelings from the large
     spittoons, where they were soaking in tobacco spittle, wash
     them off and eat them.

     "'We had an abundance of good, pure water, which was a great
     blessing. Pails were furnished, and when five or six men
     were ready, the sentry would call the corporal of the guard,
     who would send a guard of from four to six with us to the
     river, about two hundred yards distant. Twice a day an
     officer would come in and call the roll; that is form us
     into four ranks and count the files. If any had escaped, it
     was essential that the number should be kept good for some
     days, to enable them to get a good start, and for this
     purpose various means were used. Some, times one of the rear
     rank, after being counted, would glide along unseen to the
     left of the line and be recounted. A hole was cut in the
     upper floor, and while the officer was going upstairs, some
     would climb through the hole and be counted with those on
     the third floor. This created some confusion, as the number
     would occasionally overrun.

     "'As the season advanced we suffered more and more from the
     cold, for being captured in September our clothing was not
     sufficient for December and January. Very few had blankets,
     and the rebel authorities never issued either blankets or
     clothing of any kind. The windows of the lower rooms were
     without glass, and only the lower half of each boarded up;
     the wind would whistle through the large openings, and
     drawing up through the open floor, upon which we had to lie
     at night, would almost freeze us. I finally succeeded in
     trading my watch with one of the guard for an old bed-quilt
     and twenty dollars Confederate money. The money came in very
     good time, for I then had the scurvy so badly that my
     tongue, lips and gums were so swollen that by evening I
     could scarcely speak. In the morning the swelling would not
     be quite so bad, and by soaking the corn-bread in water,
     could manage to swallow a little. The surgeon, who visited
     the prison every day, cauterized my mouth, but it continued
     to grow worse, until at last I could not eat the coarse
     bread. Sometimes I would have a chance to sell it for from
     one to two dollars, which, with the twenty, saved me from
     starvation. I bought rice of the guard for two dollars the
     half-pint, and good-sized potatoes for a dollar each. These
     were cooked usually over a little fire in the yard with wood
     or chips picked up while going for water. Sometimes, by
     waiting patiently for an hour or more, I could get near
     enough to the stove to put my cup on. The heating apparatus
     was a poor apology for a cylinder coal-stove, and the coal
     the poorest I ever saw, and gave so little heat that one
     could stand all day by it and shiver.

     "'The bed-quilt was quite narrow, but very much better than
     none.

     "'Capt. Weiss and I would spread our flannel coats on the
     floor, use our shoes for pillows, spread the quilt over us,
     and with barely space to turn over, would, if the night was
     not too cold, go to sleep; usually to dream of home and
     loved ones; of Christmas festivities and banquets; of trains
     of army wagons so overloaded with pies and cakes that they
     were rolling into the road; of a general exchange; a thirty
     day's leave of absence, and a thousand things altogether
     unlike that which we were experiencing; and would wake only
     to find ourselves cold and hungry.

