Transcriber's notes:
  (1) Numbers following letters in mathematical expressions such as a1
  or [gamma]1 were originally printed as subscripts. Of the sons born
to the unfortunate tsar Paul Petrovich and his wife Maria Feodorovna,
née princess of Württemberg, none more closely resembled his father in
bodily and mental characteristics than did the second, Constantine
Pavlovich. The direction of the boy's upbringing was entirely in the
hands of his grandmother, the empress Catherine II. As in the case of
her eldest grandson (afterwards the emperor Alexander I.), she regulated
every detail of his physical and mental education; but in accordance
with her usual custom she left the carrying out of her views to the men
who were in her confidence. Count Nicolai Ivanovich Soltikov was
supposed to be the actual tutor, but he too in his turn transferred the
burden to another, only interfering personally on quite exceptional
occasions, and exercised neither a positive nor a negative influence
upon the character of the exceedingly passionate, restless and
headstrong boy. The only person who really took him in hand was César La
Harpe, who was tutor-in-chief from 1783 to May 1795 and educated both
the empress's grandsons.

Like Alexander, Constantine was married by Catherine when not yet seventeen years of age, a
raw and immature boy, and he made his wife, Juliana of Coburg, intensely miserable. After a
first separation in the year 1799, she went back permanently to her German home in 1801, the
victim of a frivolous intrigue, in the guilt of which she was herself involved. An attempt
made by Constantine in 1814 to win her back to his hearth and home broke down on her firm opposition.
During the time of this tragic marriage Constantine's first campaign took place under the leadership
of the great Suvorov. The battle of Bassignano was lost by Constantine's fault, but at Novi
he distinguished himself by such personal bravery that the emperor Paul bestowed on him the
title of cesarevich, which according to the fundamental law of the constitution belonged only
to the heir to the throne. Though it cannot be proved that this action of the tsar denoted
any far-reaching plan, it yet shows that Paul already distrusted the grand-duke Alexander.
However that may be, it is certain that Constantine never tried to secure the throne. After
his father's death he led a wild and disorderly bachelor life. He abstained from politics,
but remained faithful to his military inclinations, though, indeed, without manifesting anything
more than a preference for the externalities of the service.

In command of the guards during the campaign of 1805 Constantine had a share of the responsibility
for the unfortunate turn which events took at the battle of Austerlitz; while in 1807 neither
his skill nor his fortune in war showed any improvement. However, after the peace of Tilsit
he became an ardent admirer of the great Corsican and an upholder of the Russo-French alliance.
It was on this account that in political questions he did not enjoy the confidence of his imperial
brother. To the latter the French alliance had always been merely a means to an end, and after
he had satisfied himself at Erfurt, and later during the Franco-Austrian War of 1809, that
Napoleon likewise regarded his relation to Russia only from the point of view of political
advantage, he became convinced that the alliance must transform itself into a battle of life
and death. Such insight was never attained by Constantine; even in 1812, after the fall of
Moscow, he pressed for a speedy conclusion of peace with Napoleon, and, like field-marshal
Kutusov, he too opposed the policy which carried the war across the Russian frontier to a victorious
conclusion upon French soil. During the campaign he was a boon companion of every commanding-officer.
Barclay de Tolly was twice obliged to send him away from the army. His share in the battles
in Germany and France was insignificant. At Dresden, on the 26th of August, his military knowledge
failed him at the decisive moment, but at La Fère-Champenoise he distinguished himself by personal
bravery. On the whole he cut no great figure. In Paris the grand-duke excited public ridicule
by the manifestation of his petty military fads. His first visit was to the stables, and it
was said that he had marching and drilling even in his private rooms.

In the great political decisions of those days Constantine took not the smallest part. His
importance in political history dates only from the moment when the emperor Alexander entrusted
him in Poland with a task which enabled him to concentrate all the one-sidedness of his talents
and all the doggedness of his nature on a definite object: that of the militarization and outward
discipline of Poland. With this begins the part played by the grand-duke in history. In the
Congress-Poland created by Alexander he received the post of commander-in-chief of the forces
of the kingdom; to which was added later (1819) the command of the Lithuanian troops and of
those of the Russian provinces that had formerly belonged to the kingdom of Poland. In effect
he was the actual ruler of the country, and soon became the most zealous advocate of the separate
position of Poland created by the constitution granted by Alexander. He organized their army
for the Poles, and felt himself more a Pole than a Russian, especially after his marriage,
on the 27th of May 1820, with a Polish lady, Johanna Grudzinska. Connected with this was his
renunciation of any claim to the Russian succession, which was formally completed in 1822.
It is well known how, in spite of this, when Alexander I. died on the 1st of December 1825
the grand-duke Nicholas had him proclaimed emperor in St Petersburg, in connexion with which
occurred the famous revolt of the Russian Liberals, known as the rising of the Dekabrists.
In this crisis Constantine's attitude had been very correct, far more so than that of his brother,
which was vacillating and uncertain. Under the emperor Nicholas also Constantine maintained
his position in Poland. But differences soon arose between him and his brother in consequence
of the share taken by the Poles in the Dekabrist conspiracy. Constantine hindered the unveiling
of the organized plotting for independence which had been going on in Poland for many years,
and held obstinately to the belief that the army and the bureaucracy were loyally devoted to
the Russian empire. The eastern policy of the tsar and the Turkish War of 1828 and 1829 caused
a fresh breach between them. It was owing to the opposition of Constantine that the Polish
army took no part in this war, so that there was in consequence no Russo-Polish comradeship
in arms, such as might perhaps have led to a reconciliation between the two nations.

The insurrection at Warsaw in November 1830 took Constantine completely by surprise. It was
owing to his utter failure to grasp the situation that the Polish regiments passed over to
the revolutionaries; and during the continuance of the revolution he showed himself as incompetent
as he was lacking in judgment. Every defeat of the Russians appeared to him almost in the light
of a personal gratification: his soldiers were victorious. The suppression of the revolution
he did not live to see. He died of cholera at Vitebsk on the 27th of June 1831. He was an impossible
man in an impossible situation. On the Russian imperial throne he would in all probability
have been a tyrant like his father.

   See also Karrnovich's The Cesarevich Constantine Pavlovich (2
   vols., St Petersburg, 1899), (Russian); T. Schiemann's Geschichte
   Russlands unter Kaiser Nicolaus I. vol. i. (Berlin, 1904);
   Pusyrevski's The Russo-Polish War of 1831 (2nd ed., St Petersburg,
   1890) (Russian).     (T. SE.)

CONSTANTINE, a city of Algeria, capital of the department of the same name, 54 m. by railway
S. by W. of the port of Philippeville, in 36° 22' N., 6° 36' E. Constantine is the residence
of a general commanding a division, of a prefect and other high officials, is the seat of a
bishop, and had a population in 1906 of 46,806, of whom 25,312 were Europeans. The population
of the commune, which includes the suburbs of Constantine, was 58,435. The city occupies a
romantic position on a rocky plateau, cut off on all sides save the west from the surrounding
country by a beautiful ravine, through which the river Rummel flows. The plateau is 2130 ft.
above sea-level, and from 500 to nearly 1000 ft. above the river bed. The ravine, formed by
the Rummel, through erosion of the limestone, varies greatly in width--at its narrowest part
the cliffs are only 15 ft. apart, at its broadest the valley is 400 yds. wide. At the N.E.
angle of the city the gorge is spanned by an iron bridge (El-Kantara) built in 1863, giving
access to the railway station, situated on Mansura hill. A stone bridge built by the Romans,
and restored at various times, suddenly gave way in 1857 and is now in ruins; it was built
on a natural arch, which, 184 ft. above the level of the river, spans the valley. Along the
north-eastern side of the city the Rummel is spanned in all four times by these natural stone
arches or tunnels. To the north the city is commanded by the Jebel Mecid, a hill which the
French (following the example of the Romans) have fortified.

Constantine is walled, the extant medieval wall having been largely constructed out of Roman
material. Through the centre from north to south runs a street (the rue de France) roughly
dividing Constantine into two parts. The place du Palais, in which are the palace of the governor
and the cathedral, and the kasbah (citadel) are west of the rue de France, as is likewise the
place Négrier, containing the law courts. The native town lies chiefly in the south-east part
of the city. A striking contrast exists between the Moorish quarter, with its tortuous lanes
and Oriental architecture, and the modern quarter, with its rectangular streets and wide open
squares, frequently bordered with trees and adorned with fountains. Of the squares the place
de Nemours is the centre of the commercial and social life of the city. Of the public buildings
those dating from before the French occupation possess chief interest. The palace, built by
Ahmed Pasha, the last bey of Constantine, between 1830 and 1836, is one of the finest specimens
of Moorish architecture of the 19th century. The kasbah, which occupies the northern corner
of the city, dates from Roman times, and preserves in its more modern portions numerous remains
of other Roman edifices. It is now turned into barracks and a hospital. The fine mosque of
Sidi-el-Kattani (or Salah Bey) dates from the close of the 18th century; that of Suk-er-Rezel,
now transformed into a cathedral, and called Notre-Dame des Sept Douleurs, was built about
a century earlier. The Great Mosque, or Jamaa-el-Kebir, occupies the site of what was probably
an ancient pantheon. The mosque Sidi-el-Akhdar has a beautiful minaret nearly 80 ft. high.
The museum, housed in the hôtel de ville, contains a fine collection of antiquities, including
a famous bronze statuette of the winged figure of Victory, 23 in. high, discovered in the kasbah
in 1858.

A religious seminary, or medressa, is maintained in connexion with the Sidi-el-Kattani; and
the French support a college and various minor educational establishments for both Arabic and
European culture. The native industry of Constantine is chiefly confined to leather goods and
woollen fabrics. Some 100,000 burnouses are made annually, the finest partly of wool and partly
of silk. There is also an active trade in embossing or engraving copper and brass utensils.
A considerable trade is carried on over a large area by means of railway connexion with Algiers,
Bona, Tunis and Biskra, as well as with Philippeville. The railways, however, have taken away
from the city its monopoly of the traffic in wheat, though its share in that trade still amounts
to from £400,000 to £480,000 a year.

Constantine, or, as it was originally called, Cirta or Kirtha, from the Phoenician word for
a city, was in ancient times one of the most important towns of Numidia, and the residence
of the kings of the Massyli. Under Micipsa (2nd century B.C.) it reached the height of its
prosperity, and was able to furnish an army of 10,000 cavalry and 20,000 infantry. Though it
afterwards declined, it still continued an important military post, and is frequently mentioned
during successive wars. Caesar having bestowed a part of its territory on his supporter Sittius,
the latter introduced a Roman settlement, and the town for a time was known as Colonia Sittianorum.
In the war of Maxentius against Alexander, the Numidian usurper, it was laid in ruins; and
on its restoration in A.D. 313 by Constantine it received the name which it still retains.
It was not captured during the Vandal invasion of Africa, but on the conquest by the Arabians
(7th century) it shared the same fate as the surrounding country. Successive Arab dynasties
looted it, and many monuments of antiquity suffered (to be finally swept away by "municipal
improvements" under the French régime). During the 12th century it was still a place of considerable
prosperity; and its commerce was extensive enough to attract the merchants of Pisa, Genoa and
Venice. Frequently taken and retaken by the Turks, Constantine finally became under their dominion
the seat of a bey, subordinate to the dey of Algiers. To Salah Bey, who ruled from 1770 to
1792, we owe most of the existing Moslem buildings. In 1826 Constantine asserted its independence
of the dey of Algiers, and was governed by Haji Ahmed, the choice of the Kabyles. In 1836 the
French under Marshal Clausel made an unsuccessful attempt to storm the city, which they attacked
by night by way of El-Kantara. The French suffered heavy loss. In 1837 Marshal Valée approached
the town by the connecting western isthmus, and succeeded in taking it by assault, though again
the French lost heavily. Ahmed, however, escaped and maintained his independence in the Aures
mountains. He submitted to the French in 1848 and died in 1850.

