XV. Can sincerely religious Persons hear of the most horrid, licentious Treatment of sacred
things as is in our Plays, and this not among Mahometans and Infidels, not at Rome and Venice,
but in a Protestant Countrey, without a Fear that the Judgments of God will fall upon us?

XVI. Can less be expected from good Christians, who are sensible of the intolerable Disorders
of the Play-Houses, and the Mischiefs that are brought upon Mankind by them, than that they
would use all proper Methods for the Discouraging and Restraining their Relations and Friends
from going to them, as they have any Concern for the Honour of God, the Good of Mankind, and
the Welfare of their own Immortal Souls; that so by Persons, who have any virtuous Principles,
keeping from a Place which they will never be able to frequent with Safety to themselves, under
any partial Regulation; the Players, the unhappy, the miserable Players, may be necessitated
to quit their Profession, and take upon them some honest and useful Employment (wherein good
Men ought to encourage and assist them) and thereby the execrable Impieties of the Play-Houses,
and the ruinous consequences of them, be prevented?

XVII. Lastly, Can Persons frequent the Play-Houses, after the outragious Impieties of them,
and the fatal Effects of their going to them, are in so full and advantageous a manner laid
open to the World, without a greater Aggravation of their Guilt?

FINIS.

Some THOUGHTS Concerning the STAGE IN A LETTER TO A LADY

London, Printed Anno Dom. 1704

Madam,

It is with no little Pleasure I behold you treading in the Paths of Virtue, and practising
the Duties of a Holy and Religious life. This, as it has deservedly gain'd you the Love and
Admiration of all that know you: so, I doubt not, but you will always find it a Fund of solid
Peace and Satisfaction to your own Mind. I heartily wish there were many more such bright Examples
in the World, that the Ladies might be at last convinc'd, That there is something worthy their
Imitation beyond the Modes of Dress and Equipage; something which will render them much more
agreeable to the best and wisest of their Admirers, and, in time, no less pleasing to themselves.
I make no doubt but the Age (as corrupt as it is) can furnish us with many Instances of those
of your Sex, who think the Beauty of the Mind does far surpass the gay Appearances of the most
splendid Outside: But yet, it must be confessed, that there are others, (and those not a few)
whose Lives are almost one continued Circle of Vanity and Folly. Such as divide the best and
most precious part of their Time between their Toilet, the Exchange, and the Play-House. This,
I believe, upon Enquiry, will appear to be no unjust Censure; tho' at the same time, Madam,
I must freely own to you, that I think it a most amazing thing, that the Ladies (at least those
who make any Pretensions to Virtue and Goodness) should ever be seen at the last of these Places;
where they find themselves so scandalously treated. I am apt to think, that very few of 'em
have read Mr. Collier's 'View of the Stage'; if they had, they would there see the Corruptions
of the Plays set in so clear a Light, that one would believe, they should never after be Tempted
to appear in a Place where Lewdness and Obscenity (not to mention other Immoralities) are so
great a part of the Entertainment; a Place that is now become the Common Rendezvouz of the
most Lewd and Dissolute Persons; the Exchange, (if I may so call it) where they meet to carry
on the vilest and worst of Practices. 'Tis the Nursery of all manner of Wickedness, where the
Seeds of Atheism and Irreligion are sown, which Weak and Tender Minds too readily cultivate,
and from thence are easily led into a Contempt of all that's Serious. It is impossible to say,
how many, and how great the Mischiefs are that spring from thence; which if a Man should take
a View of, it would perhaps, be one of the most Melancholy Prospects that ever he beheld. To
look into our Modern Plays, and there to see the Differences of Good and Evil confounded, Prophaneness,
Irreligion, and Unlawful Love, made the masterly Stroaks of the fine Gentleman; Swearing, Cursing,
and Blaspheming, the Graces of his Conversation; and Unchristian Revenge, to consummate the
Character of the Hero; Sharpness and Poignancy of Wit exerted with the greatest Vigor against
the Holy Order; in short, Religion and all that is Sacred, Burlesqu'd and Ridicul'd; To see
this, I say, and withall, to reflect upon the fatal Effects which these things have already
had, and how much worse are likely to follow, if not timely prevented, cannot but fill the
Minds of all good Men with very dismal Apprehensions.

And are these then the Entertainments for a Christian to be pleas'd with; for one whose Salvation
is to be wrought out with Fear and Trembling? Will the Strictnesses of Virtue and Religion
be ever relished by a Mind tinctur'd with such Licentious Representations? Must not such Diversions
(to say no worse of 'em) insensibly steal upon the Affections, especially of the Younger sort;
give their Minds quite a wrong Biass, and disarm them of that Severity which is their greatest
Guard, and which, when once lost, leaves 'em an easie Prey to every Temptation? Will not those
Lewd Scenes of Love, wherewith almost every Play is fraught, inflame the Fancy, heighten the
Imagination, and render a Person thus prepar'd, a fit Subject for ill designing People to work
on? But suppose it were possible to be so armed as to be Proof against all these Dangers; yet
let any that have the least Regard to what is Serious, tell me how they can answer it to God,
or their own Consciences, to be any ways Instrumental towards the Support of so much Wickedness?
Do they think it a Sin to give the least Encouragement to Vice, and at the same time believe
themselves Innocent, when by their Persons, and their Purses, they contribute to the cherishing
the very Seed-Plot of Irreligion? 'Tis to no purpose for such to say, That they are cautious
what Plays they see, and always go to the best and that the Play-Houses would thrive whether
they frequented them or no. This may he true, but what then, Will this excuse them? Suppose
a powerful Rebellion is begun in a Nation, and carried on successfully, for some time; and
a Man should not only appear sometimes among the Rebels, but should, now and then, send them
a Supply (tho' never so little) of Money and Arms: Could such a one pretend that he was no
ways Instrumental in this Rebellion, nor Accessary to the Mischiefs that attended it, and that
because it was not only begun, but would have prosper'd too, without him; and altho' he did
sometimes appear among the Authors of it, yet it was with the Party which did the least Mischief?
Do you think, Madam, this a just way of Reasoning? I dare say you do not. Is not this then
the very Case I am speaking of? Is the Stage, as 'tis now manag'd, any thing else but a downright
Rebellion against God and his Holy Religion? Are not the Plays, (if not by Design) yet by a
natural and necessary Consequence, an undermining of his Laws, and an Attempt upon his Government?
And must it not then follow, that every one that frequents them, is a Party in the Cause, and
encourages the Undertaking? And tho' he should be so Happy as never to smile at a Prophane
Jest, nor join in Applauding a Vitious Play; yet, will that exempt him from a Share of that
Guilt which his Presence and Purse has help'd to support? No, Madam, 'tis Numbers strengthen
the Enemy, and give fresh Courage to his Attempts! A Full House is the very Life of the Stage,
and keeps it in Countenance, whereas thin Audiences would, in time, make it dwindle to nothing.

I know, Madam, this is strange Doctrine to some People. If a Man talks to them of leaving the
Plays, they wonder what he means, and are ready to take him for a Madman. They have so long
habituated themselves to the Play-Houses, that they begin to think a Place there, to be part
of their Birth-Right: But I desire such would be perswaded to hear what the late A. B. Tillotson
thought of these matters, (and I hope some Deference is due to his Judgment).

This is the Opinion, Madam, of that Excellent Man: and, one would think, it should put those
Persons who are the Encouragers of Plays, and the Frequenters of them, when they read it, upon
an Enquiry, What it is they are doing? Whether they are not carrying on the Designs of the
great Enemy of Mankind? But if that will not prevail upon them, let 'em reflect upon the late
Instance of God's severe Displeasure against us, and tell me then, whether they think it consistent
with that Humiliation and Repentance which this great Judgment ought to awaken in us, and which
Her Majesty, by Her late Gracious Proclamation, calls upon us to Exercise, to be ever again
present at a Place, where they must often hear the Name of God Prophaned, and every thing that
is Serious made a Jest of? A Place which they cannot but know, and must own, (if put to the
Question) has contributed so much to the Corrupting the present Age; and which, 'tis to be
fear'd, is one of those accursed things, that has provok'd the Almighty to be so angry with us.

These are things, Madam, of no trifling Importance; they are such as deserve the serious Reflections
of all good Christians, whatever the Pretenders to Gaiety may think. And though some may, perhaps,
misconstrue and ridicule such Considerations by the Names of Preciseness and Fanaticism; yet,
'tis to be hop'd, that all who have any regard for the Honour of God, the Welfare of their
Countrey, and the Interest of our Established Church, will not be laugh'd out of their Duty,
but be perswaded, not only to withdraw themselves from a Place of so much Danger, but advise
others to do the like; that the Stage may no longer Triumph in the Spoils of Virtue and Religion.
'Tis now the time to begin such an Undertaking: We have a powerful Enemy abroad, and a more
formidable one at home; I mean that Looseness and Irreligion which so abounds: and what will
it avail us to subdue the one, while we encourage the other? The Hand of God has been lifted
up against us, we have seen the Terrors of the Lord, and felt the Arrows of the Almighty; and
what can all this mean, but to awaken us to a due Sense of our Danger? And, 'tis to be hop'd,
the Nation has already taken the Alarm, and begin to think how to avert God's Displeasure.
The Stage is called in Question, and Papers are dispers'd to warn us of its Mischiefs; and
it is not improbable that the Licentious and Unbounded Liberty the Players have taken of late
years, and particularly in their daring to Act THE TEMPEST within a very few Days after the
late dreadful Storm, has rais'd in the Minds of Men such an Abhorrence and Indignation, that
we may possibly be so happy as to see the Stage (if not totally suppress'd) yet brought under
such a Regulation, both as to the Plays that are Acted, and the Company that Resort to them,
that Foreigners may no longer stand amaz'd when brought into our Theatres, nor Good Men tremble
at the Continuance of them: but that Virtue may appear there with all its Charms, and Vice
be expos'd to the utmost Contempt. In short, that the Stage may become so Chast, that even
those Birds of Prey who now hover about the Play-Houses and make the Avenues to 'em so dangerous,
may fly away from a Place that will no longer Encourage nor Protect them.

