  Then "Annot Lyle," the fairy queen of light and song, stepped near,
  The "Knight of Ardenvohr," and he, the gifted Hieland Seer:
  "Dalgetty," "Duncan," "Lord Monteith," and "Ranald," met my view--
  The hapless "Children of the Mist," and bold "Mhich-Connel-Dhu!"

  On swept "Bois Guilbert"--"Front de Boeuf"--"De Bracy's" plume of woe;
  And "Coeur de Lion's" crest shone near the valiant "Ivanhoe;"
  While soft as glides a summer cloud "Rowena" closer drew,
  With beautiful "Rebecca"--peerless daughter of the Jew!

  Still onward like the gathering night advanced that funeral train--
  Like billows when the tempest sweeps across the shadowy main;
  Where'er the eager gaze might reach, in noble ranks were seen,
  Dark plume, and glittering mail and crest, and woman's beauteous mien!

  A sound thrilled through that lengthening host! methought the vault
          was closed,
  Where in his glory and renown fair Scotia's bard reposed!--
  A sound thrilled through that length'ning host! and forth my vision fled!
  But, ah! that mournful dream proved true,--the immortal Scott was dead!

Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD BYRON'S "LOVE."

From Lady Blessington's Conversations.

Of love he had strange notions: he said that most people had le besoin d'aimer, and that with
this besoin the first person who fell in one's way contented one. He maintained that those
who possessed the most imagination, poets for example, were most likely to be constant in their
attachments, as with the beau ideal in their heads, with which they identified the object of
their attachment, they had nothing to desire, and viewed their mistresses through the brilliant
medium of fancy, instead of the common one of the eyes. "A poet, therefore (said Byron), endows
the person he loves with all the charms with which his mind is stored, and has no need of actual
beauty to fill up the picture. Hence he should select a woman, who is rather good-looking than
beautiful, leaving the latter for those who, having no imagination, require actual beauty to
satisfy their tastes. And after all (said he), where is the actual beauty that can come up
to the bright 'imaginings' of the poet? where can one see women that equal the visions, half
mortal, half angelic, that people his fancy? Love, who is painted blind (an allegory that proves
the uselessness of beauty), can supply all deficiencies with his aid; we can invest her whom
we admire with all the attributes of loveliness, and though time may steal the roses from her
cheek, and the lustre from her eye, still the original beau ideal remains, filling the mind
and intoxicating the soul with the overpowering presence of loveliness. I flatter myself that
my Leila, Zuleika, Gulnare, Medora, and Haidee will always vouch for my taste in beauty: these
are the bright creations of my fancy, with rounded forms, and delicacy of limbs, nearly so
incompatible as to be rarely if ever united; for where, with some rare exceptions, do we see
roundness of contour accompanied by lightness, and those fairy hands and feet that are at once
the type of beauty and refinement. I like to shut myself up, close my eyes, and fancy one of
the creatures of my imagination, with taper and rose-tipped fingers, playing with my hair,
touching my cheek, or resting its little snowy-dimpled hand on mine. I like to fancy the fairy
foot, round and pulpy, but small to diminutiveness, peeping from beneath the drapery that half
conceals it, or moving in the mazes of the dance. I detest thin women; and unfortunately all,
or nearly all plump women, have clumsy hands and feet, so that I am obliged to have recourse
to imagination for my beauties, and there I always find them.