Following the six volumes of bills, are fifteen volumes of Reports from Committees, which are
again succeeded by nine volumes of Reports from Commissioners. These two sections of the literature
of parliament form vast stores of material on an immense number of subjects, into which he
who digs laboriously is sure to be rewarded in the end. They contain great masses of 'evidence,'
extracted by the examinations of committees and commissioners from the parties believed to
be best qualified to give correct and full information on the various subjects on which they
are examined, and these opinions are supported by facts and authentic statements and statistics,
invaluable to the investigator. The first volume of last year's Reports from Committees opens
with that on the Edinburgh Annuity Tax, the fifteenth contains that on Steam Communications
with India. There are four volumes on Customs, two on Ceylon, one on Church-rates, one on the
Caffre Tribes, one on Newspaper Stamps, &c.; while other volumes contain Reports on the Property
Tax, the Militia, the Ordnance Survey, Public Libraries, Law of Partnership, &c. From commissioners,
we have Reports on Fisheries, Emigration, National Gallery, Public Records, Board of Health,
Factories, Furnaces, Mines and Collieries, Education, Maynooth College, Prisons, Public Works, &c.

The fourth section of these parliamentary papers for 1851 amounts to thirty volumes, and consists
of Accounts and Papers. It is in these that the statist finds inexhaustible wealth of material,
long columns of figures with large totals, tables of the most complicated yet the clearest
construction, containing a multiplicity of details bearing on the riches and resources of the
empire in its most general and most minute particulars. Thus the first volume relates to 'Finance,'
and includes the accounts of the Public Income and Expenditure, Public and National Debt, Income
Tax, Public Works, and a vast variety of other subjects. The second volume is made up of the
'Estimates' for the Army, Navy, Ordnance, and 'Civil Services,' which includes Public Works,
Public Salaries, Law and Justice, Education, Colonial and Consular Services, &c. The third
volume is filled with Army and Navy Accounts and Returns. The next six volumes refer to the
colonies, and consist of Accounts, Dispatches, Correspondence. The tenth is occupied with the
subject of Emigration; and the eleventh with the Government of our Eastern Empire in all its
vast machinery and complicated relations. The remaining volumes--for space would fail us to
enumerate them in detail--treat of such subjects as the Census, Education, Convict Discipline,
Poor, Post-office, Railways, Shipping, Quarantine, Trade and Navigation Returns, Revenue, Population
and Commerce, Piracy, the Slave Trade, and Treaties and Conventions with Foreign States. Last
of all, as volume sixty of the set, we have the Numerical List and General Index, itself a
goodly tome of nearly 200 pages, compiled with immense care, and arranged so perspicuously
as to afford the utmost facilities for reference.

These papers, as we have said, differ greatly in size. Some consist of but a single page, others
swell up to volumes two or three inches thick, and of perhaps 2000 pages. As to the contents,
the majority display a mixture of letterpress with tabular matter; and while some are wholly
letterpress, others present an alarming and endless array of figures--filing along, page after
page, in irresistible battalions. In many, valuable maps and plans are incorporated, with occasional
designs for public works, &c.

Besides these returns and papers of permanent value, there are daily issued during the session
programmes of the business of the day, entitled Votes and Proceedings, and containing a list
of the subjects, the motions, petitions, bills, &c., that are to be brought before the House,
according to 'the orders of the day.' These, and all the other papers issued by parliament,
may be obtained regularly through 'all the booksellers,' by any person desiring to have them.
Their prices are fixed; and in the case of the larger papers, the price is printed on the back
of each. Copies of bills and returns may be had separately, on payment of these affixed prices;
and indeed few parties require complete sets. Some public libraries take them, as do most of
the London, and one or two provincial newspapers, by which the gentlemen of the press are enabled
to compile the numerous articles and paragraphs with which all newspaper readers are familiar,
and which usually begin: 'By a return just issued, we learn,' &c.; or: 'From a parliamentary
paper recently printed, it appears,' &c. The public is often considerably indebted to the labours
of newspaper men in regard to these papers, for the exigence of space, and the necessity of
beating everything into a readable shape, require them to condense the voluminous details of
the returns; and their sum and substance is thus given without any encumbering extraneous matter.

The cost of complete series of the papers varies from session to session, according to the
number issued, ranging usually about L.12 or L.14.

LIGHTS FOR THE NIGHT.

Unquestionably, darkness is disagreeable. Whether to manhood hoary-headed in wisdom, or to
childhood yet in soft-brained ignorance, darkness is an unpleasant fact, to be got over in
the best way possible--to be got over at all events, and at any cost, and to be turned into
luminosity by every expedient that can be used. Wax-tapers, to throw their soft, luxurious
light on my lady's delicate face, as she lies like a beautiful piece of marble-work on her
dreamy couch; shaded lamps for the grave merchant, the virtual king of the present, as he sits
in his still office, ruling nations by bale and bond, and guiding the tide of events by invoices
and ship's papers; Palmer's candles, under green pent-houses, for students and authors, whose
eyes must withstand a double strain; the mild house-light, with a dash of economy in the selection,
whether of oil, sperm, long-fours, or short-sixes, for the family group; the white camphene
flame for the artist: strange mechanisms for the curious; the flaunting brilliancy of the coloured
chandeliers and cut-glass shades for our English Bedouins in the gin-palace; the flaring jet
of the open butchers' shops; the paper-lantern of the street-stalls; the consumptive dip of
the slop-worker; the glimmering rush-light for the sick-room; the resin torch for the midnight
funeral: these, and countless other inventions--not to mention the universal gas--assert man's
disinclination to transact his life in the dark, or to bound his powers by the simple arrangements
of nature. There are better lights, though, than any of these, and a worse than mere physical
night, be it the blackest with which romancer ever stained his innocent paper, when describing
those dark deeds on desolate moors which all romancers delight in, and which send young ladies
pale to bed. The night of the mind is worse than the night of time; and lamps which can dispel
this are more valuable than any which make up for the loss of the sun only, though these are
grand undertakings too.

Most people know what a Child's night-light is, and most people have heard of Belmont Wax,
and Price's Patent Candles, though few would be able to explain exactly what the warrant guards.
But who ever pretends to understand patents? The 'Belmont' every one knows; it is a mere ordinary
wax-candle, which perhaps does not 'gutter' so much as others, and with wick more innocent
of 'thieves' than most, but with nothing more wonderful in appearance than an ordinary candle.
A Child's night-light, too, has nothing mysterious in its look. It greatly resembles the thick
stumpy end of a magnificent mould, done up in a coloured card-jacket, and with a small thin
wick, that gives just a point of flame, and no more, by which to light another candle, if necessary--of
admirable service for this and all other purposes of a common-place bedroom. Eccentric sleepers,
who write Greek hexameters, and fasten on poetic thoughts while the rest of the world are in
rational slumber, might object to the feebleness of this point of light; but eccentricities
need provisions of their own, and comets have orbits to which the laws of the stars do not
apply. For all ordinary people, this thick candle-end is a delicious substitute for the ghastly
rush-light in its chequered cage, which threw strange figures on wall and curtain, and gave
nervous women the megrims. But nothing more is known of Belmonts or night-lights; their birthplace,
and the manner of their making, are alike hidden from the outer world; the uninitiated accept
the arcana of tallow only in the positive form. It is generally presumed that candles, in the
abstract, come from some unknown place in 'the City;' but how they are made, or who is employed
in their making, or how the workmen live in the grease-laden steam of the factory, not one
in a thousand would know if he could certainly none would give himself any trouble to find
out. Neither should we ourselves have known, had not a little pamphlet, bearing the heading,
Special Report by the Directors to the Proprietors of Price's Patent Candle Company, fallen
into our hands. Holding the Report open on the desk before us, we will now give to our readers
the net result of the moral doings of the factory.

In the winter of 1848, half-a-dozen of the boys employed in the candle manufactory used to
hide themselves behind a bench two or three times a week, when work and tea were over, to practise
writing on useless scraps of paper picked up anyhow, and with worn-out pens begged from the
counting-house. Encouraged by the foreman of their department, who begged some rough, movable
desks for them, and aided by timely but not oppressive prizes from the Messrs Wilson, and by
the presence of Mr J. P. Wilson, the little self-constituted school progressed considerably,
until it reached the number of thirty; then a large old building was cleared out, a rickety
wooden staircase taken down, an iron one put up in its stead, and a lofty school-room, capable
of holding about 100 or more, made in the place of two useless lumber-rooms. The making and
furnishing that room amounted to L.172. The school for some time held to its first principles
of self-government. All the instruction, discipline, and management were supplied by the boys
themselves; and when a number of elder boys joined, a committee, appointed by themselves, regulated
the affairs of the community. However, this did not last long. The hot young blood and immature
young brain needed a stronger curb than self-appointed committees could supply; and by a general
request, the school has since been worked by authority--this authority itself guided by a general
vote in many matters of choice immediately concerning the scholars. In the following summer--we
are still in '48--a day-school was held in the room, to which the younger boys who were wanted
in the factory at uncertain times and for indefinite periods, were sent when not employed--drafted
from school to work, and from work to school, as the necessities of the factory required. The
annual cost of this day-school is L.130; the total cost from the commencement, L.327.

Amusements must now be provided. The first and most obvious were tea-parties, the usual rewards
to school-children, and often made very tedious affairs by the enormous quantity of talk inflicted
on them. However, Mr Wilson managed better. To the first, many of the boys came dirty and untidy;
the second shewed a great improvement; the third, one still greater; until now, most of the
factory-boys assemble to chapel, and other places where they ought to be decent, in plain suits
of black, which give them a neat and even gentlemanlike appearance: yes, though the word applied
to a set of factory-boys, candlemakers, may make many of our readers smile. But for all that
constitutes real gentlemanlike feeling for order, obedience to authority, courtesy of manner,
the absence of rudeness, quarrelling, and other petty vices of school-boys--these factory lads,
taken from the very heart of a low population, shine pre-eminently, or rather have shone, since
Mr Wilson has taken their educational training so much to heart. The first tea-party was held
on Easter-Monday, as a counterpoise to the attractions of Greenwich and Camberwell fairs; and
it succeeded in that object, evidencing that vice is not that necessary ingredient in the pleasures
of the people which some people think.

In 1849, the cholera came, peculiarly severe about Lambeth and Battersea Fields, where many
of the candlemakers lived. Mr Wilson's first thought was for the young people in the factory.
He consulted with his brother, and they took additional counsel of first-rate medical men,
and then added to the committee a Mr Symes, a gentleman holding a field that was waiting to
be built on. The result of these consultations was, that Mr Symes giving them temporary possession
of the field, the night-school was closed entirely, and all the boys set to work to learn cricket--cricket
as the best antidote to cholera the directors of Price's Patent could devise. Wise men these
directors, with some sterling common sense and rare old hearty benevolence mixed up with their
generous Saxon blood! Mr Symes was not the only stranger--for stranger he was--eager to help
the directors. A Mr Graham came forward, and many others joined in offering; and altogether,
as Mr J. P. Wilson says, 'everybody's heart seemed to warm up to their object.' The plan was
a success. Of the whole crowd of cricket-players, only one, an interesting lad of seventeen,
was lost, though most of them had kinspeople dying and dead in their own homes. That cricket-ground
was not, however, useful only for physical health; it presented a beautiful and striking scene,
which must have carried home to every heart deep thoughts and holy purposes to strengthen the
soul as well.

'Always when the game was finished,' says Mr Wilson, 'they (the boys) collected in a corner
of the field, and took off their caps for a very short prayer for the safety of themselves
and their friends from cholera; and the tone in which they said their amen to this, has always
made me think, that although the school was nominally given up for the time, they were really
getting from their game, so concluded, more moral benefit than any ordinary schooling could
have given them.' This belief we heartily endorse. That informal prayer, made while the blood
was warm with happiness and high with health, spoken in the open field, by themselves, direct
to Heaven, without other interpreter between them, must have made a deep impression on the
boys. Its very informality must have added to its solemnity; making it appear, and indeed making
it in reality, so much more the genuine, spontaneous, heart-spoken expression of each individual,
than the mere customary attendance on a prescribed form can admit. A field of six and a half
acres is now rented, at the annual gross cost of L.80, the middle of which is kept for the
cricket-ground, while the edges are laid down in gardens, allotted out.

During all the bright summer weather the boys worked eagerly at their gardens, and played perseveringly
at cricket--making a happy and healthy use of time that otherwise must, if used well, have
been spent in a dull school-room (not the most inviting of recreations, after a hard day's
work at the candle-making), or idled away in the streets, amongst the unprofitable and unhealthy
amusements provided for the people. Amongst other good results, Mr Wilson notices that of 'softening
to the boys one of the greatest evils now existing in the factory--the night-work, for which
the men and boys come in at six in the evening, to leave at six in the morning.' These workers
do not go to bed, it seems, so soon as they leave work: in former days, they generally dawdled
about, took a walk, or strolled into a gin-palace, as it might happen, or did anything else
to kill the time until their sleeping-hour arrived. Since the cricket-ground has been established,
however, they rush off to the field on leaving work at six in the morning, thoroughly enjoy
themselves at gardening and cricket until about a quarter past eight; and then, after collecting
in a little shed, where a verse or two of the New Testament and the Lord's Prayer are read
to them, they go home to sleep, refreshed by the exercise after their unnatural hours, happy,
peaceful, and healthy. These are the birches and canes of the Messrs Wilson's moral and scholastic
training!

Then came the summer-excursion. The first experiment was in June 1850, when 100 of them went
down to Guildford early in the morning, and returned late in the evening. It was a beautiful
day, bright and cloudless; and as those London boys wandered about the country lanes and meadows
of Guildford, and heard the ceaseless hum of insect life, and the uncaged birds singing high
in the blue sky, and saw the wild-flowers in the hedgerows, and the glancing waters in their
way, we may be sure that more than mere enjoyment was stored up in their minds, and that thoughts
which might not be brought out into set phrases, but which would be undying in their influence
through life, were raised in each heart that drank in the glories and the holy teaching of
nature, perhaps on that day for the first time. It was something for them to think of in the
toil and heat of the factory; a beautiful picture, to fill their minds while their hands were
busy at their work; and the rippling rivers and singing birds would sing and flow again and
again in many a young head bending carefully over its task. The excursion of the next year
was on a grander scale: 250 started from Vauxhall Bridge, to go down the river to Herne Bay,
which, though it may sound ludicrously Cockneyfied, was quite as much as the strength, and
more than the stomachs of the little candlemakers could stand; yet very delightful, notwithstanding
the qualmishness and face-playing of the majority. This year, they are all invited by the Bishop
of Winchester to the brave old castle of Farnham--a treat to which they are looking forward
with all the headlong eagerness of youth, and which, we trust, will have other and even better
results than the pleasures we wish them. A bishop entertaining a set of factory children will
be a welcome sight in these days of clerical pomp, when the episcopal purple so often hides
the pastoral staff. It will be a rare occurrence, but a good practice begun--to be followed,
we would fain hope, by its like in other districts.

The expense of the day at Guildford was L.28; of that at Herne Bay, L.48; the estimated expense
of the excursion for the present year is L.55. This seems a heavy item for a single day's amusement,
but the Messrs Wilson have proved the immense advantage which their boys derive from these
excursions: the hope, the stimulus to exertion--as only those who have worked hard at school,
and behaved well generally, join the cricket-club and the excursionists--the health, the incentive
to good conduct, and the preservation from evil habits; all these varied good effects have
convinced the directors that it is money well spent--money that will bring in a richer percentage
than government securities or Australian gold-fields could give, for it brings in the percentage
of virtue. Not always in the power of money to gain that! And right thankful ought we to be,
when we have found any investment whatever which will return us such rich usurious interest
for what is in itself so intrinsically valueless.

So much, then, for the Belmont Factory--for the light of that busy wax-candle making. Turn
we now to the Night-Light Factory, though our notice of this must be brief; but brevity befits
those thick, short candle-ends.

In the autumn of 1849, the night-light trade came into the possession of Price's Patent Candle
Company. Amongst the Child's Lights we have girls to deal with as well as boys--an element
not to be provided for in the Belmont arrangements, and causing a little difficulty as to their
proper disposition on first starting. But nothing seems to daunt Mr Wilson. Give him but a
square inch for his foothold, and his moral lever will raise any given mass of ignorance, and
remove any possible amount of obstruction. After a little time, and some expense, one of the
railway arches near the night-factory was taken possession of, fitted up, made water-tight,
and turned into a school-room for the boys and girls of the adopted concern. The expense of
preparing and furnishing that arch was L.93. Still, the girls remained as a doubtful and untried
version of the Belmont success; but by the energetic aid of a lady, much experienced in such
matters, and by the untiring cares of a chaplain recently appointed to the factory, and who
is in reality the moral and educational superintendent of the whole, something of the uncertainty
hanging over the result has been removed, and all matters have greatly improved. Inasmuch as
the character of women is of more delicate texture than that of men, so are the managers of
the Night-Light School more careful to secure an unexceptionable set of girls in the school,
that prudent parents may send their children there without alarm, and without more danger of
contamination than must always arise where a number of human beings, adults or youths, are
assembled together.

Everything seems prospering. Church-organs in the school-rooms, chapel-services at various
times as the different sets of workmen come and go, and flourishing schools for the mere child
up to the actual young man, supply all the spiritual, intellectual, and devotional requirements
of the work-people; games, gardening, excursions, and a general friendliness between masters
and people, form their social happiness; and useful arts taught and about to be taught, help
to make up the wellbeing of the community. Tailoring and shoemaking are to be learned, not
as trades, but as domestic aids, many working-men having found the advantage, in various ways,
of being able to do those little repairs at home which perishable garments are always requiring;
and a shop full of young coopers employs another section of tradesmen in rather large numbers.
For this last improvement, Mr J. Wilson was obliged to take up his freedom of the city, that
he might apprentice the lads to himself, as it is a rule among the coopers that no one follows
this trade, which is a close one, without having learned it by regular apprenticeship. However,
a freeman can take apprentices in any trade, whether close or open, provided he does teach
them a bonâ fide business; and Mr Wilson availed himself of this privilege, and netted to himself
a batch of young coopers, as we have said. So much can one earnest wish to be of real use to
a cause or a generation enable a single individual to do! We may be sure that when we talk
of our inability to do good, we mean our inattention to means, not our incapacity from want
of them.

