Pod-netting.--This derives its name from the habitation of the trouts (the banks of the "becks")
which are called "hods" or "holds" and more frequently "pods," and this net therefore goes
by these three names. I have before described to you the situation generally of these "holds"
to be either in the ledge of some rock or stone in the water, or under some bank reaching over
the stream. This net is used in fine weather, and when the water is "clear as crystal;" the
fisherman takes hold of the handles of the net,[4] and wades through the stream as gently as
possible, placing the net just at the side of a trout's "hold," taking care to keep it as close
to the bottom as possible, to afford the trout no room for escape. Then another with a long
pole drives the trouts from the mouth of the "hold," when they immediately dart into the net,
and nothing remains but to draw the net quickly up. This is a famous method of fishing. I have
been with parties when we have completely cleared the beck. We went to "Carmony" in the spring
of 1825, and caught an immense quantity by fishing with the hand and pod. This brings to my
recollection an amusing circumstance, which I intend troubling you with, though you may think
it unworthy of notice. It was reported in that year that there was a large quantity of trouts
in the beck; and I went at the recommendation of those who had seen a particularly large one
(when passing by) "basking" in the streams. I was referred to a certain "lum," and thither
I went one afternoon with two friends, to try if we could have an opportunity of seeing him.
We had scarcely reached the spot when we perceived him lying at the mouth of his "hold," a
fine grassy bank at the side of which grew a small bush; and I employed my friends to watch
the trout should he escape me. I crossed the brook (my friends remaining on the opposite side),
pulled off my coat and waistcoat, and tucked up my shirt ready for action. He was still lying
very quietly, and as I knew I had no chance with him then, I touched him gently with a twig
and he moved into his habitation. I then leaned over the bank, thrust in my arm, touched his
back, I felt his size, and was all caution. So first I began to secure him by building a piece
of wall before the bank to prevent his going out; but I had no sooner laid the first stone
than out he bounced, and darted down the river about twenty yards, (we running after him all
the while) then up again, and so on for about a quarter of an hour, till at length he became
tired and waddled into his dwelling. I now thought all secure, and once more put in my hand,
when he jumped at least three or four yards out of the water. I must confess, I was a little
confused with my friends' dictation, who feared I should lose him. Again housed, I made a kind
of fort at one end of the hold, and this done, I again thrust in my arm, when he was as soon
out again, and on getting up I found my hand covered with blood. Still he came back to his
favourite place, and I tried again, after giving my friends caution to be on the look out.
This time I was successful, I put my hand gently under his belly, and by a tickle, secured
the rascal, by thrusting the fore-finger and thumb of my right hand in his gills. I got him
on to land, my friends ran about in exstacy, and I think I never saw a finer trout than he
proved to be--real Eden. We gave a shout of triumph, after which we cut him on the nose to
kill him. From tail to snout he measured one foot four inches; but he was beautifully plump
and thick-made. We now began to wonder what caused the blood on my hand, when on examination,
we found a large night hook in his side, which no doubt I had touched, and had thus given him
pain, and made him restless. I will not prolong the story, but tell you he weighed about two
pounds and a half, and was acknowledged to be the plumpest trout ever caught in that county
by the hand.[5] Shortly afterwards I caught the partner to it in the same place, but it was
not so fine a trout, and I had not so much effort in catching it. The largest trout ever caught
in this county weighed four pounds and a half, but that was taken with the net. I have no other
recommendation for this paper but its originality. I have enjoyed the sport, and can only half
convey a description of it upon paper.

W.H.H.

    [4] This net is made differently from the other, there being no
    frame to it and having two handles.

    [5] The reader must consider the difficulty of holding a large
    fish with the hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROSE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Mark, Laura, dearest, yonder rose
    Its inner folds are sad and pale, love;
  While blushing, outward leaves disclose
    A lively crimson to the gale, love.

  Yet as the secret canker-worm
    Preys deeply on its drooping heart, love,
  Soon from the flow'ret's with'ring form
    Will all that vivid glow depart, love.

  Then turn to me those beaming eyes--
    A blooming cheek although you see, love,
  Since hope is fled, then pleasure dies,
    And read the rose's fate in me, love.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD WINE.

(For the Mirror.)

The passion for old wines has sometimes been carried to a very ridiculous excess, for the "thick
crust," the "bee's wing," and the several other criterions of the epicure, are but so many
proofs of the decomposition and departure of some of the best qualities of the wine. Had the
man that first filled the celebrated Heidleburg tun been placed as sentinel, to see that no
other wine was put into it, he would have found it much better at twenty-five or thirty years
old, than at one hundred, had he lived so long, and been permitted now and then to taste it.

At Bremen there is a wine-cellar, called the Store, where five hogsheads of Rhenish wine have
been preserved since 1625. These five hogsheads cost 1,200 francs. Had this sum been put out
to compound interest, each hogshead would now be worth above a thousand millions of money,
a bottle of this precious wine would cost 21,799,480 francs, or about 908,311l., and a single
wine-glass 2,723,808 francs, or about 113,492l..

J.L.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HEROINE.

A SKETCH FROM SUNDRY NOVELS.

(For the Mirror.)

She must be, à plaisir, tall and slender in person, or of humbler stature, but never inclining
to stoutness, since the en bon point savours (at least in romance) of vulgarity. Her complexion
may be light or dark, according to fancy; but her interesting pallidness may occasionally be
relieved by a hectic flush, yet more interesting. She must possess small alabaster hands, coral
or ruby lips, enchasing a double row of pearls; a neck rivalling ivory or driven snow, (yes,
even if our heroine be a brunette, for incongruity is the very essence of romance); velvet
cheeks, golden or jet black hair, diamond eyes, marvellous delicate feet, shrouded at all times
in bas-de-soie, and defended by the most enchanting slippers imaginable; her figure must be
a model for the statuary, and at all seasons, and in every situation, arrayed in muslins or
silks, which, wondrous to relate, resist the injuries of time, weather, and wear in a manner
perfectly astounding. What heroine had ever an hiatus in her stocking, or a fracture in her
gown of finest woof? Ye gods! what an insult to suppose her repairing such! The lady's mental
accomplishments and qualifications are as follow:--She sings divinely, plays on the harp (and
piano too in modern days) à merveille; occasionally condescends to fascinate on the guitar,
and the lute also, should that instrument, now rather antiquated, fall in her way. She takes
portraits, and sketches from nature; she understands all languages, or rather that desideratum,
an universal tongue, since in the most foreign lands she is never at a loss to render herself
understood, nor to comprehend that which is addressed to her; she is of a melancholy cast of
mind, and carries sal-volatile in her reticule, and fountains of tears in her eyes, for use
on the most public occasions; she likes gloomy apartments, looking upon the sea, mountains,
or black forests, and leading into endless corridors; she has an Æolian lyre ever at her casement,
writes verses and weeps by moonlight, for--effect, or-- nothing; and is enamoured with a being,
who, in the common course of nature, could not exist; he possessing, amongst other fine qualities,
that of omnipresence in an impious degree. Should the heroine reside in a town, and especially
London, she must have dwelt previously in some isolated mansion, seldom visited by beings superior
in intellect to the foxes they hunt; an idiot mother, vulgar aunt, a father, an uncle, or a
guardian in his dotage, must have superintended her education; and when, at the age of sixteen,
some fortunate chance throws her into society, her accomplishments and manners are found more
fitting for it and finished, than those of persons who have from their cradles associated with
families of the highest distinction, and possessed all the advantages of a polished and liberal
education. The heroine has, in all situations, an abundant store of money, jewels, and clothes,
supplied no one knows when, how, or by whom; and these, with her musical instruments, drawing
materials, &c. accompany her into every reverse of situation, in a manner perfectly incomprehensible,
but highly amusing and edifying. A miniature portrait of some mysterious relative or friend,
seldom or ever seen, nay, indeed, a sacred memento of the dead, is highly scenic and effective
in a romance. The heroine ought, by all means, to possess such; it may do good, and it can
do no harm. Finally, the lady must frequently faint, be twice or thrice on the brink of the
grave, undergo exquisite varieties of suffering, run all hazards, but retain her beauty and
reputation unblemished to the last, i.e. to her marriage; after which, this wondrous and superlative
creature, and her partner in perfection, are never heard of more. Why?

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT ROMAN FESTIVALS.

SEPTEMBER.

The Septmontium was a festival of the seven mountains of Rome, which was celebrated in this
month, near the seven mountains, within the walls of the city; they sacrificed seven times
in seven different places; and on that day the emperors were very liberal to the people.

The Meditrinalia were feasts instituted in honour of the goddess Meditrina, and celebrated
on the 13th of September. They were so called from medendo, because the Romans then began to
drink new wine, which they mixed with old, and that served them instead of physic.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

THE ANNUALS FOR 1829.

These elegant little works are already in a forward state. MR. ALARIC WATTS announces the plates
of the SOUVENIR, "of a more important size than heretofore," and twelve in number, already
completed. Among them are Cleopatra embarking on the Cydnus, drawn by Danby, and engraved by
Goodall; Love taught by the Graces, drawn by Hilton, and engraved by J.C. Edwards; a beautiful
scene from Lalla Rookh, drawn by Stephanoff, and engraved by Bacon; She never told her Love,
drawn by Westall, and engraved by Rolls. Whilst Mr. Watts has been catering for the "children
of a larger growth," Mrs. W. has been preparing a "New Year's Gift; or Juvenile Souvenir",
to be accompanied with exquisite illustrations of Nursery literature; as the Children in the
Wood, Red Riding Hood, &c. with two historical subjects after Northcote.

