Naturally many suggestions as to changes, additions, and other improvements have reached its
authors. Naturally, too, the authors have busied themselves in devising methods to add to the
effectiveness of the book. Some additions have been made almost every year since the book was
published. To embody all these changes and helpful suggestions into a strictly unified volume;
to add some further topics and sections; to bring all farm practices up to the ideals of to-day;
to include the most recent teaching of scientific investigators--these were the objects sought
in the thorough revision which has just been given the book. The authors hope and think that
the remaking of the book has added to its usefulness and attractiveness.

They believe now, as they believed before, that there is no line of separation between the
science of agriculture and the practical art of agriculture. They are assured by the success
of this book that agriculture is eminently a teachable subject. They see no difference between
teaching the child the fundamental principles of farming and teaching the same child the fundamental
truths of arithmetic, geography, or grammar. They hold that a youth should be trained for the
farm just as carefully as he is trained for any other occupation, and that it is unreasonable
to expect him to succeed without training.

If they are right in these views, the training must begin in the public schools. This is true
for two reasons:

1. It is universally admitted that aptitudes are developed, tastes acquired, and life habits
formed during the years that a child is in the public school. Hence, during these important
years every child intended for the farm should be taught to know and love nature, should be
led to form habits of observation, and should be required to begin a study of those great laws
upon which agriculture is based. A training like this goes far toward making his life-work
profitable and delightful.

2. Most boys and girls reared on a farm get no educational training except that given in the
public schools. If, then, the truths that unlock the doors of nature are not taught in the
public schools, nature and nature's laws will always be hid in night to a majority of our bread-winners.
They must still in ignorance and hopeless drudgery tear their bread from a reluctant soil.

The authors return hearty thanks to Professor Thomas F. Hunt, University of California; Professor
Augustine D. Selby, Ohio Experiment Station; Professor W. F. Massey, horticulturist and agricultural
writer; and Professor Franklin Sherman, Jr., State Entomologist of North Carolina, for aid
in proofreading and in the preparation of some of the material.

  CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I. THE SOIL

  SECTION                                                  PAGE

  I. ORIGIN OF THE SOIL                                       1

  II. TILLAGE OF THE SOIL                                     6

  III. THE MOISTURE OF THE SOIL                               9

  IV. HOW THE WATER RISES IN THE SOIL                        13

  V. DRAINING THE SOIL                                       14

  VI. IMPROVING THE SOIL                                     17

  VII. MANURING THE SOIL                                     21

  CHAPTER II. THE SOIL AND THE PLANT

  VIII. ROOTS                                                25

  IX. HOW THE PLANT FEEDS FROM THE SOIL                      29

  X. ROOT-TUBERCLES                                          30

  XI. THE ROTATION OF CROPS                                  33

  CHAPTER III. THE PLANT

  XII. HOW THE PLANT FEEDS FROM THE AIR                      39

  XIII. THE SAP CURRENT                                      40

  XIV. THE FLOWER AND THE SEED                               42

  XV. POLLINATION                                            46

  XVI. CROSSES, HYBRIDS, AND CROSS-POLLINATION               48

  XVII. PROPAGATION BY BUDS                                  51

  XVIII. PLANT SEEDING                                       59

  XIX. SELECTING SEED CORN                                   66

  XX. WEEDS                                                  69

  XXI. SEED PURITY AND VITALITY                              72

  CHAPTER IV. HOW TO RAISE A FRUIT TREE

  XXII. GRAFTING                                             78

  XXIII. BUDDING                                             81

  XXIV. PLANTING AND PRUNING                                 83

  CHAPTER V. HORTICULTURE

  XXV. MARKET-GARDENING                                      89

  XXVI. FLOWER-GARDENING                                    108

  CHAPTER VI. THE DISEASES OF PLANTS

  XXVII. THE CAUSE AND NATURE OF PLANT DISEASE              122

  XXVIII. YEAST AND BACTERIA                                127

  XXIX. PREVENTION OF PLANT DISEASE                         129

  XXX. SOME SPECIAL PLANT DISEASES                          130

  CHAPTER VII. ORCHARD, GARDEN, AND FIELD INSECTS

  XXXI. INSECTS IN GENERAL                                  144

  XXXII. ORCHARD INSECTS                                    152

  XXXIII. GARDEN AND FIELD INSECTS                          165

  XXXIV. THE COTTON-BOLL WEEVIL                             173

  CHAPTER VIII. FARM CROPS

  XXXV. COTTON                                              180

  XXXVI. TOBACCO                                            189

  XXXVII. WHEAT                                             192

  XXXVIII. CORN                                             197

  XXXIX. PEANUTS                                            202

  XL. SWEET POTATOES                                        204

  XLI. WHITE, OR IRISH, POTATOES                            206

  XLII. OATS                                                209

  XLIII. RYE                                                213

  XLIV. BARLEY                                              215

  XLV. SUGAR PLANTS                                         217

  XLVI. HEMP AND FLAX                                       226

  XLVII. BUCKWHEAT                                          229

  XLVIII. RICE                                              231

  XLIX. THE TIMBER CROP                                     232

  L. THE FARM GARDEN                                        235

  CHAPTER IX. FEED STUFFS

  LI. GRASSES                                               238

  LII. LEGUMES                                              244

  CHAPTER X. DOMESTIC ANIMALS

  LIII. HORSES                                              262

  LIV. CATTLE                                               270

  LV. SHEEP                                                 276

  LVI. SWINE                                                279

  LVII. FARM POULTRY                                        282

  LVIII. BEE CULTURE                                        286

  LIX. WHY WE FEED ANIMALS                                  290

  CHAPTER XI. FARM DAIRYING

  LX. THE DAIRY COW                                         293

  LXI. MILK, CREAM, CHURNING, AND BUTTER                    297

  LXII. HOW MILK SOURS                                      302

  LXIII. THE BABCOCK MILK-TESTER                            304

  CHAPTER XII. MISCELLANEOUS

  LXIV. GROWING FEED STUFFS ON THE FARM                     309

  LXV. FARM TOOLS AND MACHINES                              313

  LXVI. LIMING THE LAND                                     315

  LXVII. BIRDS                                              318

  LXVIII. FARMING ON DRY LAND                               323

  LXIX. IRRIGATION                                          326

  LXX. LIFE IN THE COUNTRY                                  330

  APPENDIX                                                           339

  GLOSSARY                                                           342

  INDEX                                                              351

TO THE TEACHER

Teachers sometimes shrink from undertaking the teaching of a simple textbook on agriculture
because they are not familiar with all the processes of farming. By the same reasoning they
might hesitate to teach arithmetic because they do not know calculus or to teach a primary
history of the United States because they are not versed in all history. The art of farming
is based on the sciences dealing with the growth of plants and animals. This book presents
in a simple way these fundamental scientific truths and suggests some practices drawn from
them. Hence, even though many teachers may not have plowed or sowed or harvested, such teachers
need not be embarrassed in mastering and heartily instructing a class in nature's primary laws.

If teachers realize how much the efficiency, comfort, and happiness of their pupils will be
increased throughout their lives from being taught to coöperate with nature and to take advantage
of her wonderful laws, they will eagerly begin this study. They will find also that their pupils
will be actively interested in these studies bearing on their daily lives, and this interest
will be carried over to other subjects. Whenever you can, take the pupils into the field, the
garden, the orchard, and the dairy. Teach them to make experiments and to learn by the use
of their own eyes and brains. They will, if properly led, astonish you by their efforts and growth.

You will find in the practical exercises many suggestions as to experiments that you can make
with your class or with individual members. Do not neglect this first-hand teaching. It will
be a delight to your pupils. In many cases it will be best to finish the experiments or observational
work first, and later turn to the text to amplify the pupil's knowledge.

Although the book is arranged in logical order, the teacher ought to feel free to teach any
topic in the season best suited to its study. Omit any chapter or section that does not bear
on your crops or does not deal with conditions in your state.

The United States government and the different state experiment stations publish hundreds of
bulletins on agricultural subjects. These are sent without cost, on application. It will be
very helpful to get such of these bulletins as bear on the different sections of the book.
These will be valuable additions to your school library. The authors would like to give a list
of these bulletins bearing on each chapter, but it would soon be out of date, for the bulletins
get out of print and are supplanted by newer ones. However, the United States Department of
Agriculture prints a monthly list of its publications, and each state experiment station keeps
a list of its bulletins. A note to the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D.C., or to your
own state experiment station will promptly bring you these lists, and from them you can select
what you need for your school.

AGRICULTURE FOR BEGINNERS

CHAPTER I

THE SOIL

SECTION I. ORIGIN OF THE SOIL

The word soil occurs many times in this little book. In agriculture this word is used to describe
the thin layer of surface earth that, like some great blanket, is tucked around the wrinkled
and age-beaten form of our globe. The harder and colder earth under this surface layer is called
the subsoil. It should be noted, however, that in waterless and sun-dried regions there seems
little difference between the soil and the subsoil.

Plants, insects, birds, beasts, men,--all alike are fed on what grows in this thin layer of
soil. If some wild flood in sudden wrath could sweep into the ocean this earth-wrapping soil,
food would soon become as scarce as it was in Samaria when mothers ate their sons. The face
of the earth as we now see it, daintily robed in grass, or uplifting waving acres of corn,
or even naked, water-scarred, and disfigured by man's neglect, is very different from what
it was in its earliest days. How was it then? How was the soil formed?

Learned men think that at first the surface of the earth was solid rock. How was this rock
changed into workable soil? Occasionally a curious boy picks up a rotten stone, squeezes it,
and finds his hands filled with dirt, or soil. Now, just as the boy crumbled with his fingers
this single stone, the great forces of nature with boundless patience crumbled, or, as it is
called, disintegrated, the early rock mass. The simple but giant-strong agents that beat the
rocks into powder with a clublike force a millionfold more powerful than the club force of
Hercules were chiefly (1) heat and cold; (2) water, frost, and ice; (3) a very low form of
vegetable life; and (4) tiny animals--if such minute bodies can be called animals. In some
cases these forces acted singly; in others, all acted together to rend and crumble the unbroken
stretch of rock. Let us glance at some of the methods used by these skilled soil-makers.

Heat and cold are working partners. You already know that most hot bodies shrink, or contract,
on cooling. The early rocks were hot. As the outside shell of rock cooled from exposure to
air and moisture it contracted. This shrinkage of the rigid rim of course broke many of the
rocks, and here and there left cracks, or fissures. In these fissures water collected and froze.
As freezing water expands with irresistible power, the expansion still further broke the rocks
to pieces. The smaller pieces again, in the same way, were acted on by frost and ice and again
crumbled. This process is still a means of soil-formation.

Running water was another giant soil-former. If you would understand its action, observe some
usually sparkling stream just after a washing rain. The clear waters are discolored by mud
washed in from the surrounding hills. As though disliking their muddy burden, the waters strive
to throw it off. Here, as low banks offer chance, they run out into shallows and drop some
of it. Here, as they pass a quiet pool, they deposit more. At last they reach the still water
at the mouth of the stream, and there they leave behind the last of their mud load, and often
form of it little three-sided islands called deltas. In the same way mighty rivers like the
Amazon, the Mississippi, and the Hudson, when they are swollen by rain, bear great quantities
of soil in their sweep to the seas. Some of the soil they scatter over the lowlands as they
whirl seaward; the rest they deposit in deltas at their mouths. It is estimated that the Mississippi
carries to the ocean each year enough soil to cover a square mile of surface to a depth of
two hundred and sixty-eight feet.

The early brooks and rivers, instead of bearing mud, ran oceanward either bearing ground stone
that they themselves had worn from the rocks by ceaseless fretting, or bearing stones that
other forces had already dislodged. The large pieces were whirled from side to side and beaten
against one another or against bedrock until they were ground into smaller and smaller pieces.
The rivers distributed this rock soil just as the later rivers distribute muddy soil. For ages
the moving waters ground against the rocks. Vast were the waters; vast the number of years;
vast the results.

Glaciers were another soil-producing agent. Glaciers are streams "frozen and moving slowly
but irresistibly onwards, down well-defined valleys, grinding and pulverizing the rock masses
detached by the force and weight of their attack." Where and how were these glaciers formed?

Once a great part of upper North America was a vast sheet of ice. Whatever moisture fell from
the sky fell as snow. No one knows what made this long winter of snow, but we do know that
snows piled on snows until mountains of white were built up. The lower snow was by the pressure
of that above it packed into ice masses. By and by some change of climate caused the masses
of ice to break up somewhat and to move south and west. These moving masses, carrying rock
and frozen earth, ground them to powder. King thus describes the stately movement of these
snow mountains: "Beneath the bottom of this slowly moving sheet of ice, which with more or
less difficulty kept itself conformable with the face of the land over which it was riding,
the sharper outstanding points were cut away and the deeper river cañons filled in. Desolate
and rugged rocky wastes were thrown down and spread over with rich soil."

The joint action of air, moisture, and frost was still another agent of soil-making. This action
is called weathering. Whenever you have noticed the outside stones of a spring-house, you have
noticed that tiny bits are crumbling from the face of the stones, and adding little by little
to the soil. This is a slow way of making additions to the soil. It is estimated that it would
take 728,000 years to wear away limestone rock to a depth of thirty-nine inches. But when you
recall the countless years through which the weather has striven against the rocks, you can
readily understand that its never-wearying activity has added immensely to the soil.

In the rock soil formed in these various ways, and indeed on the rocks themselves, tiny plants
that live on food taken from the air began to grow. They grew just as you now see mosses and
lichens grow on the surface of rocks. The decay of these plants added some fertility to the
newly formed soil. The life and death of each succeeding generation of these lowly plants added
to the soil matter accumulating on the rocks. Slowly but unceasingly the soil increased in
depth until higher vegetable forms could flourish and add their dead bodies to it. This vegetable
addition to the soil is generally known as humus.

In due course of time low forms of animal life came to live on these plants, and in turn by
their work and their death to aid in making a soil fit for the plowman.

Thus with a deliberation that fills man with awe, the powerful forces of nature splintered
the rocks, crumbled them, filled them with plant food, and turned their flinty grains into
a soft, snug home for vegetable life.

SECTION II. TILLAGE OF THE SOIL

A good many years ago a man by the name of Jethro Tull lived in England. He was a farmer and
a most successful man in every way. He first taught the English people and the world the value
of thorough tillage of the soil. Before and during his time farmers did not till the soil very
intelligently. They simply prepared the seed-bed in a careless manner, as a great many farmers
do to-day, and when the crops were gathered the yields were not large.

Jethro Tull centered attention on the important fact that careful and thorough tillage increases
the available plant food in the soil. He did not know why his crops were better when the ground
was frequently and thoroughly tilled, but he knew that such tillage did increase his yield.
He explained the fact by saying, "Tillage is manure." We have since learned the reason for
the truth that Tull taught, and, while his explanation was incorrect, the practice that he
was following was excellent. The stirring of the soil enables the air to circulate through
it freely, and permits a breaking down of the compounds that contain the elements necessary
to plant growth.

You have seen how the air helps to crumble the stone and brick in old buildings. It does the
same with soil if permitted to circulate freely through it. The agent of the air that chiefly
performs this work is called carbonic acid gas, and this gas is one of the greatest helpers
the farmer has in carrying on his work. We must not forget that in soil preparation the air
is just as important as any of the tools and implements used in cultivation.

If the soil is fertile and if deep plowing has always been done, good crops will result, other
conditions being favorable. If, however, the tillage is poor, scanty harvests will always result.
For most soils a two-horse plow is necessary to break up and pulverize the land.

A shallow soil can always be improved by properly deepening it. The principle of greatest importance
in soil-preparation is the gradual deepening of the soil in order that plant-roots may have
more comfortable homes. If the farmer has been accustomed to plow but four inches deep, he
should adjust the plow so as to turn five inches at the next plowing, then six, and so on until
the seed-bed is nine or ten inches deep. This gradual deepening will not injure the soil but
will put it quickly in good condition. If to good tillage rotation of crops be added, the soil
will become more fertile with each succeeding year.

The plow, harrow, and roller are all necessary to good tillage and to a proper preparation
of the seed-bed. The soil must be made compact and clods of all sizes must be crushed. Then
the air circulates freely, and paying crops are the rule and not the exception.

Tillage does these things: it increases the plant-food supply, destroys weeds, and influences
the moisture content of the soil.

     =EXERCISE=

     1. What tools are used in tillage?

     2. How should a poor and shallow soil be treated?

     3. Why should a poor and shallow soil be well compacted before
     sowing the crop?

     4. Explain the value of a circulation of air in the soil.

     5. What causes iron to rust?

     6. Why is a two-horse turning-plow better than a one-horse plow?

     7. Where will clods do the least harm--on top of the soil or below
     the surface?

     8. Do plant roots penetrate clods?

     9. Are earthworms a benefit or an injury to the soil?

     10. Name three things that tillage does.

SECTION III. THE MOISTURE OF THE SOIL

Did any one ever explain to you how important water is to the soil, or tell you why it is so
important? Often, as you know, crops entirely fail because there is not enough water in the
soil for the plants to drink. How necessary is it, then, that the soil be kept in the best
possible condition to catch and hold enough water to carry the plant through dry, hot spells!
Perhaps you are ready to ask, "How does the mouthless plant drink its stored-up water?"

The plant gets all its water through its roots. You have seen the tiny threadlike roots of
a plant spreading all about in fine soil; they are down in the ground taking up plant food
and water for the stalk and leaves above. The water, carrying plant food with it, rises in
a simple but peculiar way through the roots and stems.

The plants use the food for building new tissue, that is, for growth. The water passes out
through the leaves into the air. When the summers are dry and hot and there is but little water
in the soil, the leaves shrink up. This is simply a method they have of keeping the water from
passing too rapidly off into the air. I am sure you have seen the corn blades all shriveled
on very hot days. This shrinkage is nature's way of diminishing the current of water that is
steadily passing through the plant.

A thrifty farmer will try to keep his soil in such good condition that it will have a supply
of water in it for growing crops when dry and hot weather comes. He can do this by deep plowing,
by subsoiling, by adding any kind of decaying vegetable matter to the soil, and by growing
crops that can be tilled frequently.

The soil is a great storehouse for moisture. After the clouds have emptied their waters into
this storehouse, the water of the soil comes to the surface, where it is evaporated into the
air. The water comes to the surface in just the same way that oil rises in a lamp-wick. This
rising of the water is called capillarity.

It is necessary to understand what is meant by this big word. If into a pan of water you dip
a glass tube, the water inside the tube rises above the level of the water in the pan. The
smaller the tube the higher will the water rise. The greater rise inside is perhaps due to
the fact that the glass attracts the particles of water more than the particles of water attract
one another. Now apply this principle to the soil.

The soil particles have small spaces between them, and the spaces act just as the tube does.
When the water at the surface is carried away by drying winds and warmth, the water deeper
in the soil rises through the soil spaces. In this way water is brought from its soil storehouse
as plants need it.

Of course when the underground water reaches the surface it evaporates. If we want to keep
it for our crops, we must prepare a trap to hold it. Nature has shown us how this can be done.
Pick up a plank as it lies on the ground. Under the plank the soil is wet, while the soil not
covered by the plank is dry. Why? Capillarity brought the water to the surface, and the plank,
by keeping away wind and warmth, acted as a trap to hold the moisture. Now of course a farmer
cannot set a trap of planks over his fields, but he can make a trap of dry earth, and that
will do just as well.

When a crop like corn or cotton or potatoes is cultivated, the fine, loose dirt stirred by
the cultivating-plow will make a mulch that serves to keep water in the soil in the same way
that the plank kept moisture under it. The mulch also helps to absorb the rains and prevents
the water from running off the surface. Frequent cultivation, then, is one of the best possible
ways of saving moisture. Hence the farmer who most frequently stirs his soil in the growing
season, and especially in seasons of drought, reaps, other things being equal, a more abundant
harvest than if tillage were neglected.

     =EXERCISE=

     1. Why is the soil wet under a board or under straw?

     2. Will a soil that is fine and compact produce better crops than
     one that is loose and cloddy? Why?

     3. Since the water which a plant uses comes through the roots, can
     the morning dew afford any assistance?

     4. Why are weeds objectionable in a growing crop?

     5. Why does the farmer cultivate growing corn and cotton?

SECTION IV. HOW THE WATER RISES IN THE SOIL

When the hot, dry days of summer come, the soil depends upon the subsoil, or undersoil, for
the moisture that it must furnish its growing plants. The water was stored in the soil during
the fall, winter, and spring months when there was plenty of rain. If you dig down into the
soil when everything is dry and hot, you will soon reach a cool, moist undersoil. The moisture
increases as you dig deeper into the soil.

Now the roots of plants go down into the soil for this moisture, because they need the water
to carry the plant food up into the stems and leaves.

You can see how the water rises in the soil by performing a simple experiment.

     =EXPERIMENT=

     Take a lamp-chimney and fill it with fine, dry dirt. The dirt from
     a road or a field will do. Tie over the smaller end of the
     lamp-chimney a piece of cloth or a pocket handkerchief, and place
     this end in a shallow pan of water. If the soil in the lamp-chimney
     is clay and well packed, the water will quickly rise to the top.

     By filling three or four lamp-chimneys with as many different
     soils, the pupil will see that the water rises more slowly in some
     than in others.

     Now take the water pan away, and the water in the lamp-chimneys
     will gradually evaporate. Study for a few days the effect of
     evaporation on the several soils.

SECTION V. DRAINING THE SOIL

A wise man was once asked, "What is the most valuable improvement ever made in agriculture?"
He answered, "Drainage." Often soils unfit for crop-production because they contain too much
water are by drainage rendered the most valuable of farming lands.

Drainage benefits land in the following ways:

1. It deepens the subsoil by removing unnecessary water from the spaces between the soil particles.
This admits air. Then the oxygen which is in the air, by aiding decay, prepares plant food
for vegetation.

2. It makes the surface soil, or topsoil, deeper. It stands to reason that the deeper the soil
the more plant food becomes available for plant use.

3. It improves the texture of the soil. Wet soil is sticky. Drainage makes this sticky soil
crumble and fall apart.

4. It prevents washing.

5. It increases the porosity of soils and permits roots to go deeper into the soil for food
and moisture.

6. It increases the warmth of the soil.

7. It permits earlier working in spring and after rains.

8. It favors the growth of germs which change the unavailable nitrogen of the soil into nitrates;
that is, into the form of nitrogen most useful to plants.

9. It enables plants to resist drought better because the roots go into the ground deeper early
in the season.

A soil that is hard and wet will not grow good crops. The nitrogen-gathering crops will store
the greatest quantity of nitrogen in the soil when the soil is open to the free circulation
of the air. These valuable crops cannot do this when the soil is wet and cold.

Sandy soils with sandy subsoils do not often need drainage; such soils are naturally drained.
With clay soils it is different. It is very important to remove the stagnant water in them
and to let the air in.

When land has been properly drained the other steps in improvement are easily taken. After
soil has been dried and mellowed by proper drainage, then commercial fertilizers, barnyard
manure, cowpeas, and clover can most readily do their great work of improving the texture of
the soil and of making it fitter for plant growth.

=Tile Drains.= Tile drains are the best and cheapest that can be used. It would not be too
strong to say that draining by tiles is the most perfect drainage. Thousands of practical tests
in this country have proved the superiority of tile draining for the following reasons:

1. Good tile drains properly laid last for years and do not fill up.

2. They furnish the cheapest possible means of removing too much water from the soil.

3. They are out of reach of all cultivating tools.

4. Surface water in filtering through the tiles leaves its nutritious elements for plant growth.

     =EXPERIMENTS=

     =To show the Effect of Drainage.= Take two tomato cans and fill
     both with the same kind of soil. Punch several holes in the bottom
     of one to drain the soil above and to admit air circulation. Leave
     the other unpunctured. Plant seeds of any kind in both cans and
     keep in a warm place. Add every third day equal quantities of
     water. Let seeds grow in both cans and observe the difference in
     growth for two or three weeks.

     =To show the Effect of Air in Soils.= Take two tomato cans; fill
     one with soil that is loose and warm, and the other with wet clay
     or muck from a swampy field. Plant a few seeds of the same kind in
     each and observe how much better the dry, warm, open soil is for
     growing farm crops.

SECTION VI. IMPROVING THE SOIL

We hear a great deal about the exhaustion or wearing out of the soil. Many uncomfortable people
are always declaring that our lands will no longer produce profitable crops, and hence that
farming will no longer pay.

Now it is true, unfortunately, that much land has been robbed of its fertility, and, because
this is true, we should be most deeply interested in everything that leads to the improvement
of our soils.

When our country was first discovered and trees were growing everywhere, we had virgin soils,
or new soils that were rich and productive because they were filled with vegetable matter and
plant food. There are not many virgin soils now because the trees have been cut from the best
lands, and these lands have been farmed so carelessly that the vegetable matter and available
plant food have been largely used up. Now that fresh land is scarce it is very necessary to
restore fertility to these exhausted lands. What are some of the ways in which this can be done?

There are several things to be done in trying to reclaim worn-out land. One of the first of
these is to till the land well. Many of you may have heard the story of the dying father who
called his sons about him and whispered feebly, "There is great treasure hidden in the garden."
The sons could hardly wait to bury their dead father before, thud, thud, thud, their picks
were going in the garden. Day after day they dug; they dug deep; they dug wide. Not a foot
of the crop-worn garden escaped the probing of the pick as the sons feverishly searched for
the expected treasure. But no treasure was found. Their work seemed entirely useless.

"Let us not lose every whit of our labor; let us plant this pick-scarred garden," said the
eldest. So the garden was planted. In the fall the hitherto neglected garden yielded a harvest
so bountiful, so unexpected, that the meaning of their father's words dawned upon them. "Truly,"
they said, "a treasure was hidden there. Let us seek it in all our fields."

The story applies as well to-day as it did when it was first told. Thorough culture of the
soil, frequent and intelligent tillage--these are the foundations of soil-restoration.

Along with good tillage must go crop-rotation and good drainage. A supply of organic matter
will prevent heavy rains from washing the soil and carrying away plant food. Drainage will
aid good tillage in allowing air to circulate between the soil particles and in arranging plant
food so that plants can use it.

But we must add humus, or vegetable matter, to the soil. You remember that the virgin soils
contained a great deal of vegetable matter and plant food, but by the continuous growing of
crops like wheat, corn, and cotton, and by constant shallow tillage, both humus and plant food
have been used up. Consequently much of our cultivated soil to-day is hard and dead.

There are three ways of adding humus and plant food to this lifeless land: the first way is
to apply barnyard manure (to adopt this method means that livestock raising must be a part
of all farming); the second way is to adopt rotation of crops, and frequently to plow under
crops like clover and cowpeas; the third way is to apply commercial fertilizers.

To summarize: if we want to make our soil better year by year, we must cultivate well, drain
well, and in the most economical way add humus and plant food.

     =EXPERIMENT=

     Select a small area of ground at your home and divide it into four
     sections, as shown in the following sketch:

     On Section A apply barnyard manure; on Section B apply
     commercial fertilizers; on Section C apply nothing, but till
     well; on Section D apply nothing, and till very poorly.

