"Oh, don't think of it," the sculptor ejaculated; notwithstanding, the tone of his voice indicated
that he would not object, that he would even prefer a traveling companion for the last few
hours of his life.

"Well, I'll go with you. Where are you going?"

"To New Haven. It's a nice trip." Morrison carefully brushed his hair and clothes, there came
a flush to his face as he realized how shabby his clothes really were. The tall, lean man was
delicate enough to look away as if he had not noticed anything.

A few moments later they left the room. Morrison locked the door and they went out into the
street. They did not talk much, merely commonplace phrases that did not bear upon the subject.
Both were occupied with their own thoughts, and strange thoughts they must have been. They
leisurely strolled to a store of sporting outfits, bought a revolver and cartridges, had their
shoes shined at the next corner, and slowly wended their way toward the depot. Their actions
were almost mechanical. Suicide is an attack of insanity, a sort of mental plague. If one has
caught the fever, one is doomed. There is no escape from it. At the same time it is contagious.
The literary man was somewhat infected by it. All his interests in life seemed to be dulled,
obliterated as it were. He could only think the one thought, "Morrison is going to kill himself.
But who knows, he may, after all, turn up next week with the excuse that he had changed his
mind. No, not he!--it was really too bad!" Morrison, on the other hand, grew quite cheerful.
With him the idea that he would do it, had become so matter-of-fact, that he ceased to think
of it. Nothing could influence him any more. Even if some vague current of soul activity should
revolt at the very last moment, he was certain that his hand would mechanically perform the task.

"Only one return ticket," he whispered as he approached the ticket office. "Oh, I almost forgot,"
replied his friend.

During the trip they silently sat opposite each other, smoking. Now and then Morrison pointed
out the beautiful sights. He seemed to be familiar with the scenery. At their arrival in New
Haven, at dusk, they at once adjourned to a hotel and sat down at a table in the bar-room.
They began to talk about art, they discussed commercialism, the lack of appreciation and the
vanity of all serious work, at least as far as art is concerned. They began to relate reminiscences
of their student years, and reviewed the hopes and ambitions of their youth. If they had been
realized, what wonders they would have accomplished!

"I gave the other side a chance. They never responded. I waited for ten long years, and now,
it's all up. Let us have another drink, waiter, the last." They clinked glasses. "And now for
a decent departure as in the good old times, when Hegesias, the Cyrenaic, preached suicide
in Alexandria--"

They arose. It had grown dark. They sauntered forth into the night. Morrison seemed to know
where he was going. "I once spent very pleasant days out here," he explained, "years, I hardly
remember how many years ago." After that they did not converse any more. They finally arrived
at a beautiful avenue of old elms that extended far into the country. Its deep, dark vista
was lit up only by the shimmer of a distant lake.

Morrison stopped, seized his friend's hand, shook it, and said in a firm voice: "Good-bye."

"Good-bye."

And Morrison walked away. It was so dark that in a few moments his form became invisible. Only
his footsteps could still be heard. They grew fainter and fainter. The tall, lean man stared
after his friend into the blackness of the night. His eyes grew dim.

