The significance of Critical-Utopian Socialism and Communism bears an inverse relation to historical
development.  In proportion as the modern class struggle develops and takes definite shape,
this phantastic standing apart from the contest, these phantastic attacks on it lose all practical
value and all theoretical justification. Therefore, although the originators of these systems
were, in many respects, revolutionary, their disciples have in every case formed mere reactionary
sects.  They hold fast by the original views of their masters, in opposition to the progressive
historical development of the proletariat.  They, therefore, endeavor, and that consistently,
to deaden the class struggle and to reconcile the class antagonisms.  They still dream of experimental
realization of their social Utopias, of founding isolated "phalansteres," of establishing "Home
Colonies," of setting up a "Little Icaria"(c)--duodecimo editions of the New Jerusalem, and
to realize all these castles in the air, they are compelled to appeal to the feelings and purses
of the bourgeois.  By degrees they sink into the category of the reactionary conservative Socialists
depicted above, differing from these only by more systematic pedantry, and by their fanatical
and superstitious belief in the miraculous effects of their social science.

They, therefore, violently oppose all political action on the part of the working class; such
action, according to them, can only result from blind unbelief in the new Gospel.

The Owenites in England, and the Fourierists in France, respectively, oppose the Chartists
and the "Réformistes."

(a) Not the English Restoration 1660 to 1689, but the French Restoration 1814 to 1830.

(b) This applies chiefly to Germany where the landed aristocracy and squirearchy have large
portions of their estates cultivated for their own account by stewards, and are moreover, extensive
beet-root sugar manufacturers and distillers of potato spirits.  The wealthier British aristocracy
are, as yet, rather above that; but they, too, know how to make up for declining rents by lending
their names to floaters of more or less shady joint-stock companies.

(c) Phalansteres were socialist colonies on the plan of Charles Fourier; Icaria was the name
given by Cabet to his Utopia and, later on, to his American Communist colony.

IV.

POSITION OF THE COMMUNISTS IN RELATION TO THE VARIOUS EXISTING OPPOSITION PARTIES.

Section II. has made clear the relations of the Communists to the existing working class parties,
such as the Chartists in England and the Agrarian Reformers in America.

The Communists fight for the attainment of the immediate aims, for the enforcement of the momentary
interests of the working class; but in the movement of the present, they also represent and
take care of the future of that movement.  In France the Communists ally themselves with the
Social-Democrats(a), against the conservative and radical bourgeoisie, reserving, however,
the right to take up a critical position in regard to phrases and illusions traditionally handed
down from the great Revolution.

In Switzerland they support the Radicals, without losing sight of the fact that this party
consists of antagonistic elements, partly of Democratic Socialists, in the French sense, partly
of radical bourgeois.

In Poland they support the party that insists on an agrarian revolution, as the prime condition
for national emancipation, that party which fomented the insurrection of Cracow in 1846.

In Germany they fight with the bourgeoisie whenever it acts in a revolutionary way against
the absolute monarchy, the feudal squirearchy, and the petty bourgeoisie.

But they never cease, for a single instant, to instil into the working class the clearest possible
recognition of the hostile antagonism between bourgeoisie and proletariat, in order that the
German workers may straightway use, as so many weapons against the bourgeoisie, the social
and political conditions that the bourgeoisie must necessarily introduce along with its supremacy,
and in order that, after the fall of the reactionary classes in Germany, the fight against
the bourgeoisie itself may immediately begin.

The Communists turn their attention chiefly to Germany, because that country is on the eve
of a bourgeois revolution that is bound to be carried out under more advanced conditions of
European civilization, and with a much more developed proletariat, than that of England was
in the seventeenth, and of France in the eighteenth century, and because the bourgeois revolution
in Germany will be but the prelude to an immediately following proletarian revolution.

(a) The party then represented in parliament by Ledru-Rollin, in literature by Louis Blanc,
in the daily press by the Reforme.  The name of Social-Democracy signified, with these its
inventors, a section of the Democratic or Republican party more or less tinged with Socialism.

THE END.

The Preamble

OF THE

INDUSTRIAL WORKERS

OF THE WORLD

An Address Delivered at Minneapolis, Minn,

By DANIEL DE LEON

The organization of the Industrial Workers of the World, at Chicago, July 10, 1905, marked
an epoch in the history of the Labor Movement in America, for the reason that, as the preamble
to the constitution declares, there can be no peace between the exploited working class and
the exploiting capitalist class; the I. W. W. organized on that basis--the recognition of the
class struggle.

By DANIEL DE LEON

"What Means This Strike?" is an address delivered before the striking textile workers of New
Bedford, Mass.  It is the best thing extant with which to begin the study of Socialism.  The
strike is used as an object lesson to show the nature of capitalist society.  The development
of the capitalist is clearly given, showing why it is that the capitalist class is able to
live in idleness and luxury while the working class rots in poverty and toil.

CONTENTS.--Whence Do Wages Come, and Whence Profits--The Capitalist System of Production--Nature
of the "Work" Performed by the Capitalist--Mechanism of Stock Corporation--Nature of the "Work"
Performed by the "Directors" of Stock Corporations--"Original Accumulation"--How the Capitalist
in General Gets His Capital--How Levi P. Morton Got His Capital--The Class Struggle--Nature
of the Conflict Between the Working Class and the Capitalist Class--Development of Capitalist
Society--Development of the Strike--How the Capitalists Rob Inventors--How the Capitalist Uses
Machinery to Rob and Subjugate the Working Class--Why the Modern Strike Is Usually a Failure--Principles
of the Organization the Working Class Must Have to Fight Successfully the Capitalist Class--Weaknesses
of "Pure and Simple" Trade Unions--Career of Samuel Gompers--There Will Be No Safety for the
Working Class Until It Wrenches the Government from the Capitalist Class, Abolishes the Wages
System of Slavery, and Unfurls the Banner of the Socialist Republic.

Single Copies, 5 Cents; 100 Copies,

  LITERATURE.

  Leaflets, in English, per thousand .......................... $1.75
  Leaflets, in German,   "      "    ..........................  3.00
  Leaflets, in Italian,  "      "    ..........................  4.00
  Leaflets, in French,   "      "    ..........................  4.00
  Leaflets, in Slavonic, "      "    ..........................  3.00
  Leaflets, in Croatian, "      "    ..........................  3.00
  Leaflets, in Spanish,  "      "    ..........................  5.00
  Leaflets, in Polish,   "      "    ..........................  4.00
  Leaflets, in Finnish,  "      "    ..........................  5.00
  Leaflets, in Swedish,  "      "    ..........................  3.00

