After a night of anxious travel, we reached Havre at about ten in the morning. We drove rapidly
to the office of the American steamers. Madame de Meilhan rushed frantically about until she
found the sleepy clerk, who told her that M. de Meilhan had taken passage on the Ontario.

"When does this vessel leave?"

"I cannot tell you," said the gaping clerk.

We ran to the pier and tremblingly asked: "Can you tell us if the American vessel Ontario sails
to-day?"

The old sailor replied to us in nautical language which we could not understand. Another man
said: "The Ontario is pretty far out by this time!" We ran to the other end of the pier and
found a crowd of people watching a cloud that was gradually disappearing in the distance. "I
see nothing now," said one of the people. But I saw a little ... little smoke ... and I could
distinctly see a flag with a large O on it.... Madame de Meilhan, pale and breathless, had
not the strength to ask the name of the fatal vessel that was almost out of sight ... I could
only gasp out the word "Ontario?" ...

"Precisely so, madame, but don't be uneasy ... it is a fast vessel, and your friends will land
in America before two weeks are passed. You look astonished, but it is the truth, the Ontario
is never behind time!" Madame de Meilhan fell fainting in my arms. She was lifted to our carriage
and soon restored to consciousness, but was so overcome that she seemed incapable of comprehending
the extent of her misfortune. We drove to the nearest hotel, and I remained in her room silently
weeping and reproaching myself for having destroyed the happiness of this family.

During these first moments of stupor Madame de Meilhan showed no indignation at my presence;
but no sooner had she recovered the use of her senses than she burst into a storm of abuse;
calling me a detestable intriguer, a low adventuress who, by my stage tricks, had turned the
head of her noble son; I would be the cause of his death--that fatal country would never give
back her son; what a pity to see so superior a man, a pride and credit to his country, perish,
succumb, to the snares of an obscure prude, who had not the sense to be his mistress, who was
incapable of loving him for a single day; an ambitious schemer, who had determined to entrap
him into marriage, but unhesitatingly sacrificed him to M. de Villiers as soon as she found
M. de Villiers was the richer of the two, ... and many other flattering accusations she made,
that were equally ill-deserved. I quietly listened to all this abuse, and went on preparing
a glass of eau sucrée for the poor weeping fury, whose conduct inspired me with generous pity.
When she had finished her tirade, I silently handed her the orange water to calm her anger,
and I looked at her ... my look expressed such firm gentle pride, such generous indulgence,
such invulnerable dignity, that she felt herself completely disarmed. She took my hand and
said, as she dried her tears: "You must forgive me, I am so unhappy!" Then I tried to console
her; I told her I would write to her son, and she would soon have him back, as my letter would
reach New York by the time he landed, and then it would only take him two weeks to return.
This promise calmed her; then I persuaded her to lie down and recover from the fatigue of travelling
all night. When I saw her poor swollen eyelids fairly closed, I left her to enjoy her slumbers
and retired to my own room. I rested awhile and then rang to order preparations for our departure;
but instead of the servant answering the bell, a pretty little girl, about eight years old,
entered my room; upon seeing me she drew back frightened.

"What do you want, my child?" I said, drawing her within the door.

"Nothing, madame," she said.

"But you must have come here for something?"

"I did not know that madame was in her room."

"What did you come to do in here?"

"I came, as I did yesterday, to see."

"To see what?"

"In there ... the Turks ..."

"The Turks? What! am I surrounded by Turks?"

"Oh! they are not in the little room adjoining yours; but through this little room you can
look into the large saloon where they all stay and have music ... will madame permit me to
pass through?"

"Which way?"

"This way. There is a little door behind this toilet-table; I open it, go in, get up on the
table and look at the Turks."

The child rolled aside the toilet-table, entered the little room, and in a few minutes came
running back to me and exclaimed:

"Oh! they are so beautiful! does not madame wish to see them?"

"No."

In a short time she returned again.

"The musicians are all asleep," she said ... "but, madame, the Turks are crazy--they don't
sleep--they don't speak--they make horrible faces--they roll their eyes--they have such funny
ways--one of them looks like my uncle when he has the fever--Oh! that one must be crazy, madame--
... look, he is going to dance! now he is going to die!"

The absurd prattle of the child finally aroused my curiosity. I went into the little room,
and, mounting the table beside her, looked through a crevice in the wooden partition and clearly
saw everything in the large saloon. It was hung up to a certain height with rich Turkish stuffs.
The floor was covered by a superb Smyrna carpet. In one recess of the room the musicians were
sleeping with their bizarre musical instruments tightly clasped in their arms. A dozen Turks,
magnificently dressed, were seated on the soft carpet in Oriental fashion, that is to say,
after the manner of tailors. They were supported by piles of cushions of all sizes and shapes,
and seemed to be plunged in ecstatic oblivion.

One of these dreamy sons of Aurora attracted my attention by his brilliant costume and flashing
arms. By the pale light of the exhausted lamps and the faint rays of dawning day, almost obscured
by the heavy drapery of the windows, I could scarcely distinguish the features of this splendid
Mussulman, at the same time I thought I had seen him before. I had seen but few pachas during
my life, but I certainly had met this one somewhere, I looked attentively and saw that his
hands were whiter than those of his compatriots--this was a suspicious fact. After closely
watching this doubtful infidel, this amateur barbarian, I began to suspect civilization and
Europeanism.... One of the musicians asleep near the window, turned over and his long guitar--a
guzla, I think it is called--caught in the curtain and drew it a little open; the sunlight
streamed in the room and an accusing ray fell upon the face of the spurious young Turk....
It was Edgar de Meilhan! A little cup filled with a greenish conserve rested on a cushion near
by. I remembered that he had often spoken to me of the wonderful effects of hashish, and of
the violent desire he had of experiencing this fascinating stupefaction; he had also told me
of one of his college friends who had been living in Smyrna for some years; an original, who
had taken upon himself the mission of re-barbarizing the East. This friend had sent him a number
of Indian poinards and Turkish pipes, and had promised him some tobacco and hashish. This modern
and amateur Turk was named Arthur Granson.... I asked the innkeeper's little daughter if she
knew the name of the man who had hired the saloon? She said yes, that he was named Monsieur
Granson.... This name and this meeting explained everything.

O Valentine! I will be sincere to the end, ... and confess that Edgar was wonderfully handsome
in this costume!... the magnificent oriental stuff, the Turkish vest, embroidered in gold and
silver, the yatagans, pistols and poinards studded with jewels, the turban draped with inimitable
art--all these things gave him a majestic, superb, imposing aspect!... which at first astonished
me, ... for we are all children when we first see beautiful objects, ... but he had a stupid
look.... No, never did a sultan of the opera, throwing his handkerchief to his bayadère ...
a German prince of the gymnasium complimented by his court--a provincial Bajazet listening
to the threatening declarations of Roxana--never did they display in the awkwardness of their
rôles, in the stiffness of their movements, an attitude more absurdly ridiculous, an expression
of countenance more ideally stupid. It is difficult to comprehend how a brilliant mind could
so completely absent itself from its dwelling-place without leaving on the face it was wont
to animate, a single trace, a faint ray of intelligence! Edgar had his eyes raised to the ceiling,
... and for an instant I think I caught his look, ... but Heavens! what a look! May I never
meet such another! I shall add one more incident to my recital--important in itself but distasteful
to me to relate--I will tell it in as few words as possible: Edgar was leaning on two piles
of cushions; he seemed to be absorbed in the contemplation of invisible stars; he was awake,
but a beautiful African slave, dressed like an Indian queen, was sleeping at his feet!

This strange spectacle filled my heart with joy. Instead of being indignant, I was delighted
at this insult to myself. Edgar evidently forgot me, and truly he had a right to forget me;
I was not engaged to him as I had been to Roger. A young poet has a right to dress like a Turk,
and amuse himself with his friends, to suit his own fancy; but a noble prince has no right
to scandalize the public when the dignity of his rank has to be striven after and recovered;
when the glory of his name is to be kept untarnished. Oh! this disgusting sight gave rise to
no angry feeling in my bosom, I at once comprehended the advantages of the situation. No more
sacrifice, no more remorse, no more hypocrisy! I was free; my future was restored to me. Oh,
the good Edgar! Oh, the dear poet! How I loved him ... for not loving me!!

I told the little girl to run quickly and bring me a servant. When the man came I handed him
six louis to sharpen his wits, and then solemnly gave him my orders: "When they ring for you
in that saloon, do you tell that young Turk with a red vest on ... you will remember him?"
"Yes, madame." "You will tell him that the countess his mother is waiting here for him, in
room No. 7, at the end of the corridor." "Ah! the lady who was weeping so bitterly?" "The same
one." "Madame may rely upon me."

I then paid my bill, and, inquiring the quickest way of leaving Havre, I fled from the hotel.
Walking along Grande Rue de Paris, I saw with pleasure that the city was filled with strangers,
who had come to take part in the festivities that were taking place at Havre, and that I could
easily mingle in this great crowd and leave the town without being observed. Uneasy and agitated,
I hurried along, and just as I was passing the theatre I heard some one call me. Imagine my
alarm when I distinctly heard some one call: "Mlle. Irene! Mlle. Irene!" I was so frightened
that I could scarcely move. The call was repeated, and I saw my faithful Blanchard rushing
towards me, breathless and then I recognised the supplicating voice ... I turned around and
weeping, she exclaimed: "I know everything, Mlle., you are going to America! Take me with you.
This is the first time I have ever been separated from you since your birth!" I had left the
poor woman at Pont de l'Arche, and she, thinking I was going to America, had followed me. "Be
quiet and follow me," said I, forgetting to tell her that I was not going to America. I reached
the wharf and jumped into a boat; the unhappy Blanchard, who is a hydrophobe, followed me.
"You are afraid?" said I. "Oh, no, Mlle., I am afraid on the Seine, but at sea it is quite
a different thing." The touching delicacy of this ingenious conceit moved me to tears. Wishing
to shorten the agony of this devoted friend, I told the oarsman to row us into the nearest
port, instead of going further by water, as I had intended, in order to avoid the Rouen route
and the Prince, the steamboat and M. de Meilhan. As soon as we landed I sent my faithful companion
to the nearest village to hire a carriage, "I must be in Paris, to-morrow," said I. "Then we
are not going to America?" "No." "So much the better," said she, as she trotted off in high
glee to look for a carriage. I remained alone, gazing at the ocean. Oh! how I enjoyed the sight!
How I would love to live on this charming, terrible azure desert! I was so absorbed in admiration
that I soon forgot my worldly troubles and the rain tribulations of my obscure life. I was
intoxicated by its wild perfume, its free, invigorating air! I breathed for the first time!
With what delight I let the sea-breeze blow my hair about my burning brow! How I loved to gaze
on its boundless horizon! How much--laugh at my vanity--how much I felt at home in this immensity!
I am not one of those modest souls that are oppressed and humiliated by the grandeur of Nature;
I only feel in harmony with the sublime, not through myself, but through the aspirations of
my mind. I never feel as if there was around me, above me, before me, too much air, too much
height, too much space. I like the boundless, luminous horizon to render solitude and liberty
invisible to my eyes.

I know not if every one else is impressed as I was upon seeing the ocean for the first time.
I felt released from all ties, purified of all hatred, and even of all earthly love; I was
freed, calm, strong, armed, ready to brave all the evils of life, like a being who had received
from God a right to disdain the world. The ocean and the sky have this good effect upon us--they
wean us from worldly pleasures.

Upon reaching Paris, I went at once to your father's to inquire about you, and had my uneasiness
about you set at rest. You must have left Geneva by this time; I hope soon to receive a letter
from you. I am not staying with my cousin. I am living in my dear little garret. I wish a long
time to elapse before I again become Mlle. de Chateaudun. I wish time to recover from the rude
shocks I have had. What do you think of my last experience? What a perfect success was my theory
of discouragement! Alas! too perfect. First trial: Western despair and champagne! Second trial:
Eastern despair and hashisch!--Not to speak of the consolatory accessories, snowy-armed beauties
and ebony-armed slaves! I would be very unsophisticated indeed if I did not consider myself
sufficiently enlightened. I implore you not to speak to me of your hero whom you wish me to
marry; I am determined never to marry. I shall love an image, cherish a star. The little light
has returned. I see it shining as I write to you. Yes, these poetic loves are all-sufficient
for my wounded soul. One thing disturbs me; they have cut down the large trees in front of
my window. To-morrow, perhaps, I shall at last see the being that dwells in this fraternal
garret.... Valentine--suppose it should be my long-sought ideal!... I tremble! perhaps a third
disenchantment awaits me.... Good-night, my dear Valentine, I embrace you. I am very tired,
but very happy ... it is so delightful to be relieved of all uneasiness, to feel that you are
not compelled to console any one.

IRENE DE CHATEAUDUN.

XXX.

PARIS, July 27th 18--.

My dear Roger, at the risk of bringing down upon my head the ridicule merited by men who fire
a pistol above their heads after having left on their table the night before the most thrilling
adieux to the world, I must confess that I have not gone; you have a perfect right to drive
me out of Europe; I promised to go to America, and you can compel me to fulfil my promise;
be clement, do not overpower me with ridicule; do not riddle me with the fire of your mocking
artillery; my sorrow, even though I remain in the old world, is none the less crushing.

I must tell you how it all happened.

As all my life I have never been able to comprehend the division of time, and it's a toss-up
whether I distinguish day from night, I turned my back on the best hotel in Havre, and stopped
at one nearest the wharf, from whence I could see the smoke-stacks of the Ontario, about to
sail for New York. I was leaning on the balcony, in the melancholy attitude of Raphael's portrait,
gazing at the swell of the ocean, with that feeling of infinite sadness which the strongest
heart must yield to in the presence of that immensity formed of drops of bitter water, like
human tears. I followed, listlessly, with my eyes the movements of a strange group which had
just landed from the Portsmouth packet. They were richly-dressed Orientals, followed by negro
servants and women enveloped in long veils.

One of these Turks looked up as he passed under my window, saw me, and exclaimed in very correct
French, with a decided Parisian accent: "Why, it's Edgar de Meilhan!" and, regardless of Oriental
dignity, he dashed into the inn, bounded into my room, rubbed my face against his crisp black
beard, punched me in the stomach with the carved hilts of a complete collection of yataghans
and kandjars, and finally said, seeing my uncertainty: "Why! don't you know me, your old college
chum, your playmate in childhood, Arthur Granson! Does my turban make such a change in me?
So much the better! Or are you mean enough to stick to the letter of the proverb which pretends
that friends are not Turks? By Allah and his prophet Mahomet, I shall prove to you that Turks
are friends."

During this flood of words I had in truth recognised Arthur Granson, a good and odd young fellow,
whom I am very fond of, and who would surely please you, for he is the most paradoxical youth
to be found in the five divisions of the globe. And, what is very rare, he acts out his paradoxes,
a whim which his great independence of character and above all a large fortune permit him to
indulge, for gold is liberty; the only slaves are the poor.

"This much is settled, I will install myself here with my living palette of local colors;"
and without giving me time to answer him, he left me to give the necessary orders for lodging
his suite.

When he returned, I said to him: "What does this strange masquerade mean? The carnival has
been over for some time, and will not return immediately, as we are hardly through the summer."
"It is not a masquerade," replied Arthur, with a dogmatic coolness and transcendental gravity
which at any other time would have made me laugh. "It is a complete system, which I shall unfold
to you."

Whereupon my friend, taking off his Turkish slippers, crossed his legs on the divan in the
approved classic attitude of the Osmanli, and running his fingers through his beard, spoke
as follows:

"During my travels I have observed that no people appreciate the peculiar beauties of the country
they inhabit. No one admires his own physiognomy; every one would like to resemble some one
else. Spaniards and Turks make endless excuses for being handsome and picturesque. The Andalusian
apologizes to you for not wearing a coat and round hat. The Arnaout, whose costume is the most
gorgeous and elegant that has ever been worn by the human form divine, sighs as he gazes at
your overcoat, and consults with himself upon the advisability of shooting you to get possession
of it, in the first mountain gorge where he may meet you alone or poorly attended. Civilization
is the natural enemy of beauty. All its creations are ugly. Barbarism--or rather relative barbarism--has
found the secret of form and color. Man living so near to Nature imitates her harmony, and
finds the types of his garments and his utensils in his surroundings. Mathematics have not
yet developed their straight lines, dry angles and painful aridity. Now-a-days, picturesque
traditions are lost, the long pantaloon has invaded the universe; frightful fashion-plates
circulate everywhere; now, I refuse to believe that man's taste has become perverted to such
a degree that if he were shown costumes combining elegance with richness, he would not prefer
them to hideous modern rags. Having made these judicious and profound reflections, I felt as
if I had been enlightened from above, and the secret of my earthly mission revealed to me;
I had come into the world to preach costume, and, as you see, I preach it by example. Reflecting
that Turkey is the country most menaced by the overcoat and stove-pipe hat, I went to Constantinople
to bring about a reaction in favor of the embroidered vest and the turban. My grave studies
upon the subject, my fortune and my taste have enabled me to attain the ne plus ultra of style.

"I doubt whether a Sultan ever possessed so splendid or so characteristic a wardrobe. I discovered
among the bazaars of the cities least infected by the modern spirit, some tailors with a profound
contempt for Frank fashions, who, with their tremulous hands, performed marvels of cutting
and embroidery. I will show you caftans braided in a miserable little out-of-the-way village
of Asia Minor, by some poor devils whom you would not trust with your dog, which surpass, in
intricacy of design, the purest arabesques of the Alhambra, and in color, the most gorgeous
peacock tails of Eugene Delacroix or Narciso Ruy Diaz de la Pena, a great painter, who out
of commiseration for the commonalty only makes use of a quarter of his name.

"I am happy to say that my apostleship has not been without fruit. I have brought back to the
dolman more than one young Osmanli about to rig himself out at Buisson's; I have saved more
than one horse of the Nedji race from the insult of an English saddle; more than one tipsy
Turk addicted to champagne has returned to opium at my suggestion. Some Georgians who were
about to be admitted to the balls of the European embassies are indebted to me for being shut
up closer than ever. I impressed upon these degenerate Orientals the disastrous results of
such a breach of propriety. I persuaded the Sultan Abdul Medjid to give up the idea of introducing
the guillotine into his empire. Without flattering myself, I think I have done a great deal
of good, and if there were only a few more gay fellows like myself we should prevent people
from making guys of themselves--And what are you doing, my dear Edgar?" "I am going to America,
and I am waiting for the Ontario to get up steam," "That's a good idea! You can become a savage
and resuscitate the last Mohican of Fenimore Cooper. I already see you, with a blue turtle
on your breast, eagle's feathers in your scalp, and moccasins worked with porcupine quills.
You will be very handsome; with your sad air you will look as if you were weeping over your
dead race. If I had not been away for four years, I would accompany you, but I was in such
a hurry to put my affairs in order, that I have returned to France by way of England, in order
to avoid the quarantine. I will admit you to my religion; you shall become my disciple; I preserve
barbaric costumes, you shall preserve savage costumes. It is not so handsome, but it is more
characteristic. There were some Indians on our steamer; I studied them; they are the people
to suit you. But, before your departure, we will indulge in an Eastern orgie in the purest
style." "My dear Granson, I am not in a humor to take part in an orgie, even though it be an
Eastern orgie; I am desperately sad." "Very well; I see that you are; some heart sorrow; you
Occidentals are always in a state of torment about some woman; which would never occur if they
were all shut up; it is dangerous to let such animals wander about. I am delighted that you
are so sad and melancholy. I can now prove to you the superior efficacy of my exhilarating
means. I found at Cairo, in the Teriaki Square, opposite the hospital for the insane--wasn't
it a profoundly philosophical idea to establish in such a place dealers in happiness?--an old
scamp, dry as a papyrus of the time of Amenoteph, shrivelled as the beards of the Pschent of
the goddess Isis; this cabalistic druggist possessed the true receipt for the preparation of
hashisch; besides, he seemed old enough to have gotten it direct from the Old Man of the Mountain,
if he were not himself the Prince of Assassins who lived in the time of Saint Louis; this skeleton
in a parchment case furnished me with a quantity of paradise, under the guise of green paste,
in little Japanese cups done up in silver wire. I intend to initiate you into these hypercelestial
delights. I shall give you a box of happiness, which will make you forget all the false coquettes
in the world."

Without listening to my repeated refusals, Granson begged me to call him henceforth Sidi-Mahmoud;
had his room spread with Persian rugs, ottomans piled up in every direction, the walls cushioned
to lean against, and perfumes scattered about; three or four dusky musicians placed themselves
in a convenient recess with taraboucks, rebeks and guzlas--an Ethiopean, naked to the waist,
served us the precious drug on a red lacquered waiter.

To accommodate Granson I swallowed several spoonfuls of this greenish confection, which, at
first, seemed to be flavored with honey and pistachio. I had dressed myself--for Granson is
one of those obstinate idiots that one is compelled to yield to in order to get rid of--in
an Anatolian costume of fabulous richness, my friend insisting that when one ascends to Paradise
he should not be annoyed by the slope of his sleeves.

In a few moments I felt a slight warmth in my stomach--my body threw off sparks and flared
up like a bank-bill in the flame of a candle; I was subject to no law of nature; weight, bulk,
opacity had entirely disappeared. I retained my form, but it became transparent; flexible,
fluid objects passed through me without inconveniencing me in the least; I could enlarge or
decrease myself to suit any place I wished to occupy. I could transport myself at will from
one place to another. I was in an impossible world, lighted by a gleam of azure grotto, in
the centre of a bouquet of fire-works formed of everchanging sheafs, luminous flowers with
gold and silver foliage, and calices of rubies, sapphires and diamonds; fountains of melted
moonbeams, throwing their spray over crystal vases, which sang with voices like a harmonica
the arias of the greatest singers. A symphony of perfumes followed this first enchantment,
which vanished in a shower of spangles at the end of a few seconds; the theme was a faint odor
of iris and acacia bloom which pursued, avoided, crossed and embraced each other with delicious
ease and grace. If anything in this world can give you an approximative idea of this exquisitely
perfumed movement, it is the dance for the piccolos in the Almée of Felicien David.

As the movement increased in sweetness and charm, the two perfumes took the shape of the flowers
from which they emanated; two irises and two bunches of acacia bloomed in a marvellously transparent
onyx vase; soon the irises scintillated like two blue stars, the acacia flowers dissolved into
a golden stream, the onyx vase assumed a female shape, and I recognised the lovely face and
graceful form of Louise Guérin, but idealized, passed to the state of Beatrice; I am not certain
that there did not rise from her white shoulders a pair of angel's wings--she gazed so sadly
and kindly at me that I felt my eyes fill with tears--she seemed to regret being in heaven;
from the expression of her face one might have thought that she accused me, and at the same
time entreated my forgiveness.

I will not take you through the various windings of this marvellous open-eyed dream; the monotonous
harmony of the tarabouck and the rebek faintly reached my ear, and served as rhythm to this
wonderful poem, which will, henceforth, make Homer, Virgil, Ariosto and Tasso as wearisome
to read as a table of logarithms. All my senses had changed places; I saw music and heard colors;
I had new perceptions, as the denizens of a planet superior to ours must have; at will, my
body was composed of a ray, a perfume or a sweet savor; I experienced the ecstasy of the angels
fused in divine light, for the effect of hashisch bears no resemblance whatever to that of
wine and alcohol, by the use of which the people of the North debase and stupefy themselves;
its intoxication is purely intellectual.

Little by little order was established in my brain. I began to observe objects around me.

The candles had burned down to the socket; the musicians slept, tenderly embracing their instruments.
The handsome negress lay at my feet. I had taken her for a cushion. A pale ray of light appeared
on the horizon; it was three o'clock in the morning. All at once a smoke-stack, puffing forth
black smoke, crossed the bar; it was the Ontario leaving its moorings.

A confusion of voices was heard in the next room; my mother, having in some way learnt of my
projected exile, had broken through Granson's orders to admit no one, and was calling for me.

I was rather mortified at being caught in such an absurd dress; but my mother observed nothing;
she had but one thought, that I was about to leave her for ever. I do not remember what she
said, such things cannot be written, the endearments she bestowed upon me when I was only five
or six years old; finally she wept. I promised to stay and return to Paris. How can you refuse
your mother anything when she weeps? Is she not the only woman whom we can never reproach?

After all, as you have said, Paris is the wildest desert; there you are completely alone. Indifferent
and unknown people may value sands and swamps.

If my sorrow prove too tenacious, I shall ask my friend Arthur Granson for the address of the
old Teriaki, and I shall send to Cairo for some boxes of forgetfulness. We will share them
together if you wish. Farewell, dear Roger, I am yours mind and heart,

EDGAR DE MEILHAN.

XXXI.

PARIS, July 30th 18--.

O day of bliss unutterable! I have found her, it is she! As you have opened your heart to my
sadness, madame, open it to my joy. Forget the unhappy wretch who, a few days ago, abandoned
himself to his grief, who even yesterday bade an eternal farewell to hope. That unfortunate
has ceased to exist; in his place appears a young being intoxicated with love, for whom life
is full of delight and enchantment. How does it happen that my soul, which should soar on hymns
of joy, is filled with gloomy forebodings? Is it because man is not made for great felicity,
or that happiness is naturally sad, nearer akin to tears than to laughter, because it feels
its fragility and instinctively dreads the approaching expiation?

After having vainly searched for Mademoiselle de Chateaudun within the walls of Rouen, M. de
Monbert decided, on receipt of some new information, to seek her among the old châteaux of
Brittany. My sorrow, feeding upon itself, counselled me not to accompany him. The fact is that
I could be of no earthly use in his search. Besides, I thought I perceived that my presence
embarrassed him. To tell the truth, we were a constraint upon each other. Every sorrowful heart
willingly believes itself the centre of the universe, and will not admit the existence, under
heaven, of any other grief than its own. I let the Prince depart, and set out alone for Paris.
One last hope remained; I persuaded myself that if Louise had not loved M. de Meilhan she would
have left Richeport at the same time that I did.

I got out at Pont de l'Arche, and prowled like a felon about the scenes where happiness had
come to me.

I wandered about for an hour, when I saw the letter-carrier coming to the post-office for the
letters to be delivered at the neighboring châteaux. Paler and more tremulous than the silvery
foliage of the willows on the river shore, I questioned him and learned that Madame Guérin
was still at Richeport. I went away with death in my heart; in the evening I reach Paris. Resolved
to see no one in that city, and only intending to pass a few days in solitude and silence,
I sought no other abode than the little room which I had occupied in less fortunate but happier
times. I wished to resume my old manner of living; but I had no taste for anything. When one
goes in pursuit of happiness, the way is smiling and alluring, hope brightens the horizon;
when we have clutched it and then let it escape, everything becomes gloomy and disenchanted;
for it is a traveller whom we do not meet twice upon our road. I tried to study, which only
increased my weariness. What was the use of knowledge and wisdom? Life was a closed book to
me. I tried the poets, who added to my sufferings, by translating them into their passionate
language. Thus, reason is baffled by the graceful apparition of a lovely blonde, who glided
across my existence like a gossamer over a clear sky, and banished repose for ever from my
heart! My eyes had scarcely rested upon the angle of my dreams ere she took flight, leaving
on my brow the shadow of her wings! She was only a child, and that child had passed over my
destiny like a tempest! She rested for a moment in my life, like a bird upon a branch, and
my life was broken! In fact I lost all control over myself. Young, free and rich, I was at
a loss to know what to do. What was to become of me? Turn where I would, I still saw nothing
around me but solitude and despair. During the day I mingled with the crowd and wandered about
the streets like a lost soul; returning at night overcome, but not conquered by fatigue. Burning
sleeplessness besieged my pillow, and the little light no longer shone to comfort and encourage
me. I no longer heard, as before, a caressing voice speaking to me through the trees of the
garden. "Courage, friend! I watch and suffer with thee." Finally, one night I saw the star
peep forth and shine. Although I had no heart for such fancies, still I felt young and joyous
again, on seeing it. As before, I gazed at it a long time. Was it the same, that, for two years,
I had seen burn and go out regularly at the same hour? It might be doubted; but I did not doubt
it for a moment, because I took pleasure in believing it. I felt less isolated and gained confidence,
now that my star had not deserted me. I called it my martyr when I spoke to it: "Whence comest
thou? Hast thou too suffered? Hast thou mourned my absence a little?" And, as before, I thought
it answered me in the silence of the night. Towards morning I slept, and in a dream, I saw,
as through a glass, Louise watching and working in a room as poor as mine, by the light of
the well-beloved ray. She looked pale and sad, and from time to time stopped her work to gaze
at the gleam of my lamp. When I awoke, it was broad day; and I went out to kill time.

On the boulevard I met an old friend of my father's; he was refined, cultivated and affectionate.
He had come from our mountains, to which he was already anxious to return, for in their valleys
he had buried himself. My dejected air and sorrowful countenance struck him. He gained my confidence,
and immediately guessed at my complaint. "What are you doing here?" he asked; "it is an unwholesome
place for grief. Return to our mountains. Your native air will do you good. Come with me; I
promise you that your unhappiness will not hold out against the perfume of broom and heather."
Then he spoke with tender earnestness of my duties. He did not conceal from me the obligations
my fortune and the position left me by my father, laid me under to the land where I was born;
I had neglected it too long, and the time had now come when I ought to occupy myself seriously
with its needs and interests. In short, he made me blush for my useless days, and led me, gently
and firmly, back to reality. At night-fall I returned to my little chamber, not consoled but
stronger, and decided to set out on the morrow for the banks of the Creuse. I did not expect
to be cured, but it pleased me to mingle the thought of Louise with the benefits that I could
bestow, and to bring down blessings upon the name which I had longed to offer her.

I immediately remarked on entering, that my little beacon shone with unaccustomed brilliancy.
It was no longer a thread of light gleaming timidly through the foliage, but a whole window
brightly illuminated, and standing out against the surrounding darkness. Investigating the
cause of this phenomenon, I discovered that, during the day, the trees had been felled in the
garden, and peering out into the gloom, I perceived, stretched along the ground, the trunk
of the pine which, for two years, had hid from me the room where burned the fraternal light.
Before departing, I should at least catch a glimpse of the mysterious being, who, probably
unconsciously, had occupied so many of my restless thoughts. I could not control a sad smile
at the thought of the disenchantment that awaited me on the morrow. I passed in review the
faces which were likely to appear at that window, and as the absurd is mixed with almost every
situation in life, I declare that this bewildering question occurred to me: "Suppose it should
be Lady Penock?"

I slept little, and arose at day-break. I was restless without daring to acknowledge to myself
the cause. It would have mortified me to have to confess that there was room beside my grief
for a childish curiosity, a poetical fancy. What is man's heart made of? He bemoans himself,
wraps a cere-cloth around him and prepares to die, and a flitting bird or a shining light suffices
to divert him. I watched the sun redden the house-tops. Paris still slept; no sound broke the
stillness of the slumbering city, but the distant roll of the early carts over the stones.
I looked long at the dear garret, which I saw for the first time in the eye of day. The window
had neither shutter nor blind, but a double rose-colored curtain hung before it, mingling its
tint with that of the rising sun. That window, with neither plants nor running vines to ornament
it, had an air of refinement that charmed me. The house itself looked honest. I wrote several
letters to shorten the slow hours which wearied my patience. Every shutter that opened startled
me, and sent the blood quickly back to my heart. My reason revolted against suck childishness;
but in spite of it, something within me refused to laugh at my folly.

After some hours, I caught a glimpse of a hand furtively drawing aside the rose-colored curtains.
That timid hand could only belong to a woman; a man would have drawn them back unceremoniously.
She must, likewise, be a young woman; the shade of the curtains indicated it. Evidently, only
a young woman would put pink curtains before a garret-window. Whereupon I recalled to mind
the little room where I had bade adieu to Louise before leaving Richeport. I lived over again
the scene in that poetic nook; again I saw Louise as she appeared to me at that last interview,
pale, agitated, shedding silent tears which she did not attempt to conceal.

