"Norah!  I must go with you, and look on the face of the man whom I have so injured,--unwittingly,
it is true; but it seems to me as if I had killed him.  I will lay his head in the grave, as
if he were my only brother: and how he must have hated me!  I cannot go home to my wife till
all that I can do for him is done.  Then I go with a dreadful secret on my mind.  I shall never
speak of it again, after these days are over.  I know you will not, either."  He shook hands
with her: and they never named the subject again, the one to the other.

Norah went home to Alice the next day.  Not a word was said on the cause of her abrupt departure
a day or two before.  Alice had been charged by her husband in his letter not to allude to
the supposed theft of the brooch; so she, implicitly obedient to those whom she loved both
by nature and habit, was entirely silent on the subject, only treated Norah with the most tender
respect, as if to make up for unjust suspicion.

Nor did Alice inquire into the reason why Mr. Openshaw had been absent during his uncle and
aunt's visit, after he had once said that it was unavoidable.  He came back, grave and quiet;
and, from that time forth, was curiously changed.  More thoughtful, and perhaps less active;
quite as decided in conduct, but with new and different rules for the guidance of that conduct.
Towards Alice he could hardly be more kind than he had always been; but he now seemed to look
upon her as some one sacred and to be treated with reverence, as well as tenderness.  He throve
in business, and made a large fortune, one half of which was settled upon her.

* * * * *

Long years after these events,--a few months after her mother died, Ailsie and her "father"
(as she always called Mr. Openshaw) drove to a cemetery a little way out of town, and she was
carried to a certain mound by her maid, who was then sent back to the carriage.  There was
a head- stone, with F. W. and a date.  That was all.  Sitting by the grave, Mr. Openshaw told
her the story; and for the sad fate of that poor father whom she had never seen, he shed the
only tears she ever saw fall from his eyes.

* * * * *

"A most interesting story, all through," I said, as Jarber folded up the first of his series
of discoveries in triumph.  "A story that goes straight to the heart--especially at the end.
But"--I stopped, and looked at Trottle.

Trottle entered his protest directly in the shape of a cough.

"Well!" I said, beginning to lose my patience.  "Don't you see that I want you to speak, and
that I don't want you to cough?"

"Quite so, ma'am," said Trottle, in a state of respectful obstinacy which would have upset
the temper of a saint.  "Relative, I presume, to this story, ma'am?"

"Yes, Yes!" said Jarber.  "By all means let us hear what this good man has to say."

"Well, sir," answered Trottle, "I want to know why the House over the way doesn't let, and
I don't exactly see how your story answers the question. That's all I have to say, sir."

I should have liked to contradict my opinionated servant, at that moment. But, excellent as
the story was in itself, I felt that he had hit on the weak point, so far as Jarber's particular
purpose in reading it was concerned.

"And that is what you have to say, is it?" repeated Jarber.  "I enter this room announcing
that I have a series of discoveries, and you jump instantly to the conclusion that the first
of the series exhausts my resources.  Have I your permission, dear lady, to enlighten this
obtuse person, if possible, by reading Number Two?"

"My work is behindhand, ma'am," said Trottle, moving to the door, the moment I gave Jarber
leave to go on.

"Stop where you are," I said, in my most peremptory manner, "and give Mr. Jarber his fair opportunity
of answering your objection now you have made it."

Trottle sat down with the look of a martyr, and Jarber began to read with his back turned on
the enemy more decidedly than ever.

THREE EVENINGS IN THE HOUSE

NUMBER ONE.

I.

Yes, it look'd dark and dreary That long and narrow street: Only the sound of the rain, And
the tramp of passing feet, The duller glow of the fire, And gathering mists of night To mark
how slow and weary The long day's cheerless flight!

II.

Watching the sullen fire, Hearing the dreary rain, Drop after drop, run down On the darkening
window-pane; Chill was the heart of Bertha, Chill as that winter day,-- For the star of her
life had risen Only to fade away.

III.

The voice that had been so strong To bid the snare depart, The true and earnest will, And the
calm and steadfast heart, Were now weigh'd down by sorrow, Were quivering now with pain; The
clear path now seem'd clouded, And all her grief in vain.

IV.

Duty, Right, Truth, who promised To help and save their own, Seem'd spreading wide their pinions
To leave her there alone. So, turning from the Present To well-known days of yore, She call'd
on them to strengthen And guard her soul once more.

V.

She thought how in her girlhood Her life was given away, The solemn promise spoken She kept
so well to-day; How to her brother Herbert She had been help and guide, And how his artist-nature
On her calm strength relied.

VI.

How through life's fret and turmoil The passion and fire of art In him was soothed and quicken'd
By her true sister heart; How future hopes had always Been for his sake alone; And now, what
strange new feeling Possess'd her as its own?

VII.

Her home; each flower that breathed there; The wind's sigh, soft and low; Each trembling spray
of ivy; The river's murmuring flow; The shadow of the forest; Sunset, or twilight dim; Dear
as they were, were dearer By leaving them for him.

VIII.

And each year as it found her In the dull, feverish town, Saw self still more forgotten, And
selfish care kept down By the calm joy of evening That brought him to her side, To warn him
with wise counsel, Or praise with tender pride.

IX.

Her heart, her life, her future, Her genius, only meant Another thing to give him, And be therewith
content. To-day, what words had stirr'd her, Her soul could not forget? What dream had fill'd
her spirit With strange and wild regret?

X.

To leave him for another: Could it indeed be so? Could it have cost such anguish To bid this
vision go? Was this her faith?  Was Herbert The second in her heart? Did it need all this struggle
To bid a dream depart?

XI.

And yet, within her spirit A far-off land was seen; A home, which might have held her; A love,
which might have been; And Life: not the mere being Of daily ebb and flow, But Life itself
had claim'd her, And she had let it go!

XII.

Within her heart there echo'd Again the well-known tune That promised this bright future, And
ask'd her for its own: Then words of sorrow, broken By half-reproachful pain; And then a farewell,
spoken In words of cold disdain.

XIII.

Where now was the stern purpose That nerved her soul so long? Whence came the words she utter'd,
So hard, so cold, so strong? What right had she to banish A hope that God had given? Why must
she choose earth's portion, And turn aside from Heaven?

XIV.

To-day!  Was it this morning? If this long, fearful strife Was but the work of hours, What
would be years of life? Why did a cruel Heaven For such great suffering call? And why--O, still
more cruel!-- Must her own words do all?

XV.

Did she repent?  O Sorrow! Why do we linger still To take thy loving message, And do thy gentle
will? See, her tears fall more slowly; The passionate murmurs cease, And back upon her spirit
Flow strength, and love, and peace.

XVI.

The fire burns more brightly, The rain has passed away, Herbert will see no shadow Upon his
home to-day; Only that Bertha greets him With doubly tender care, Kissing a fonder blessing
Down on his golden hair.

NUMBER TWO.

I.

The studio is deserted, Palette and brush laid by, The sketch rests on the easel, The paint
is scarcely dry; And Silence--who seems always Within her depths to bear The next sound that
will utter-- Now holds a dumb despair.

II.

So Bertha feels it: listening With breathless, stony fear, Waiting the dreadful summons Each
minute brings more near: When the young life, now ebbing, Shall fail, and pass away Into that
mighty shadow Who shrouds the house to-day.

III.

But why--when the sick chamber Is on the upper floor-- Why dares not Bertha enter Within the
close-shut door? If he--her all--her Brother, Lies dying in that gloom, What strange mysterious
power Has sent her from the room?

IV.

It is not one week's anguish That can have changed her so; Joy has not died here lately, Struck
down by one quick blow; But cruel months have needed Their long relentless chain, To teach
that shrinking manner Of helpless, hopeless pain.

V.

The struggle was scarce over Last Christmas Eve had brought: The fibres still were quivering
Of the one wounded thought, When Herbert--who, unconscious, Had guessed no inward strife--
Bade her, in pride and pleasure, Welcome his fair young wife.

VI.

Bade her rejoice, and smiling, Although his eyes were dim, Thank'd God he thus could pay her
The care she gave to him. This fresh bright life would bring her A new and joyous fate-- O
Bertha, check the murmur That cries, Too late! too late!

VII.

Too late!  Could she have known it A few short weeks before, That his life was completed, And
needing hers no more, She might--O sad repining! What "might have been," forget; "It was not,"
should suffice us To stifle vain regret.

VIII.

He needed her no longer, Each day it grew more plain; First with a startled wonder, Then with
a wondering pain. Love: why, his wife best gave it; Comfort: durst Bertha speak? Counsel: when
quick resentment Flush'd on the young wife's cheek.

IX.

No more long talks by firelight Of childish times long past, And dreams of future greatness
Which he must reach at last; Dreams, where her purer instinct With truth unerring told Where
was the worthless gilding, And where refined gold.

X.

Slowly, but surely ever, Dora's poor jealous pride, Which she call'd love for Herbert, Drove
Bertha from his side; And, spite of nervous effort To share their alter'd life, She felt a
check to Herbert, A burden to his wife.

XI.

This was the least; for Bertha Fear'd, dreaded, knew at length, How much his nature owed her
Of truth, and power, and strength; And watch'd the daily failing Of all his nobler part: Low
aims, weak purpose, telling In lower, weaker art.

XII.

And now, when he is dying, The last words she could hear Must not be hers, but given The bride
of one short year. The last care is another's; The last prayer must not be The one they learnt
together Beside their mother's knee.

XIII.

Summon'd at last: she kisses The clay-cold stiffening hand; And, reading pleading efforts To
make her understand, Answers, with solemn promise, In clear but trembling tone, To Dora's life
henceforward She will devote her own.

XIV.

Now all is over.  Bertha Dares not remain to weep, But soothes the frightened Dora Into a sobbing
sleep. The poor weak child will need her: O, who can dare complain, When God sends a new Duty
To comfort each new Pain!

NUMBER THREE.

I.

The House is all deserted In the dim evening gloom, Only one figure passes Slowly from room
to room; And, pausing at each doorway, Seems gathering up again Within her heart the relics
Of bygone joy and pain.

II.

There is an earnest longing In those who onward gaze, Looking with weary patience Towards the
coming days. There is a deeper longing, More sad, more strong, more keen: Those know it who
look backward, And yearn for what has been.

III.

At every hearth she pauses, Touches each well-known chair; Gazes from every window, Lingers
on every stair. What have these months brought Bertha Now one more year is past? This Christmas
Eve shall tell us, The third one and the last.

IV.

The wilful, wayward Dora, In those first weeks of grief, Could seek and find in Bertha Strength,
soothing, and relief. And Bertha--last sad comfort True woman-heart can take-- Had something
still to suffer And do for Herbert's sake.

V.

Spring, with her western breezes, From Indian islands bore To Bertha news that Leonard Would
seek his home once more. What was it--joy, or sorrow? What were they--hopes, or fears? That
flush'd her cheeks with crimson, And fill'd her eyes with tears?

VI.

He came.  And who so kindly Could ask and hear her tell Herbert's last hours; for Leonard Had
known and loved him well. Daily he came; and Bertha, Poor wear heart, at length, Weigh'd down
by other's weakness, Could rest upon his strength.

VII.

Yet not the voice of Leonard Could her true care beguile, That turn'd to watch, rejoicing,
Dora's reviving smile. So, from that little household The worst gloom pass'd away, The one
bright hour of evening Lit up the livelong day.

VIII.

Days passed.  The golden summer In sudden heat bore down Its blue, bright, glowing sweetness
Upon the scorching town. And sights and sounds of country Came in the warm soft tune Sung by
the honey'd breezes Borne on the wings of June.

IX.

One twilight hour, but earlier Than usual, Bertha thought She knew the fresh sweet fragrance
Of flowers that Leonard brought; Through open'd doors and windows It stole up through the gloom,
And with appealing sweetness Drew Bertha from her room.

X.

Yes, he was there; and pausing Just near the open'd door, To check her heart's quick beating,
She heard--and paused still more-- His low voice Dora's answers-- His pleading--Yes, she knew
The tone--the words--the accents: She once had heard them too.

XI.

"Would Bertha blame her?"  Leonard's Low, tender answer came: "Bertha was far too noble To
think or dream of blame." "And was he sure he loved her?" "Yes, with the one love given Once
in a lifetime only, With one soul and one heaven!"

XII.

Then came a plaintive murmur,-- "Dora had once been told That he and Bertha--"  "Dearest, Bertha
is far too cold To love; and I, my Dora, If once I fancied so, It was a brief delusion, And
over,--long ago."

XIII.

Between the Past and Present, On that bleak moment's height, She stood.  As some lost traveller
By a quick flash of light Seeing a gulf before him, With dizzy, sick despair, Reels to clutch
backward, but to find A deeper chasm there.

XIV.

The twilight grew still darker, The fragrant flowers more sweet, The stars shone out in heaven,
The lamps gleam'd down the street; And hours pass'd in dreaming Over their new-found fate,
Ere they could think of wondering Why Bertha was so late.

XV.

She came, and calmly listen'd; In vain they strove to trace If Herbert's memory shadow'd In
grief upon her face. No blame, no wonder show'd there, No feeling could be told; Her voice
was not less steady, Her manner not more cold.

XVI.

They could not hear the anguish That broke in words of pain Through that calm summer midnight,--
"My Herbert--mine again!" Yes, they have once been parted, But this day shall restore The long
lost one: she claims him: "My Herbert--mine once more!"

XVII.

Now Christmas Eve returning, Saw Bertha stand beside The altar, greeting Dora, Again a smiling
bride; And now the gloomy evening Sees Bertha pale and worn, Leaving the house for ever, To
wander out forlorn.

XVIII.

Forlorn--nay, not so.  Anguish Shall do its work at length; Her soul, pass'd through the fire,
Shall gain still purer strength. Somewhere there waits for Bertha An earnest noble part; And,
meanwhile, God is with her,-- God, and her own true heart!

* * * * *

I could warmly and sincerely praise the little poem, when Jarber had done reading it; but I
could not say that it tended in any degree towards clearing up the mystery of the empty House.

Whether it was the absence of the irritating influence of Trottle, or whether it was simply
fatigue, I cannot say, but Jarber did not strike me, that evening, as being in his usual spirits.
And though he declared that he was not in the least daunted by his want of success thus far,
and that he was resolutely determined to make more discoveries, he spoke in a languid absent
manner, and shortly afterwards took his leave at rather an early hour.

When Trottle came back, and when I indignantly taxed him with Philandering, he not only denied
the imputation, but asserted that he had been employed on my service, and, in consideration
of that, boldly asked for leave of absence for two days, and for a morning to himself afterwards,
to complete the business, in which he solemnly declared that I was interested.  In remembrance
of his long and faithful service to me, I did violence to myself, and granted his request.
And he, on his side, engaged to explain himself to my satisfaction, in a week's time, on Monday
evening the twentieth.

A day or two before, I sent to Jarber's lodgings to ask him to drop in to tea.  His landlady
sent back an apology for him that made my hair stand on end.  His feet were in hot water; his
head was in a flannel petticoat; a green shade was over his eyes; the rheumatism was in his
legs; and a mustard-poultice was on his chest.  He was also a little feverish, and rather distracted
in his mind about Manchester Marriages, a Dwarf, and Three Evenings, or Evening Parties--his
landlady was not sure which--in an empty House, with the Water Rate unpaid.

Under these distressing circumstances, I was necessarily left alone with Trottle.  His promised
explanation began, like Jarber's discoveries, with the reading of a written paper.  The only
difference was that Trottle introduced his manuscript under the name of a Report.

TROTTLE'S REPORT

The curious events related in these pages would, many of them, most likely never have happened,
if a person named Trottle had not presumed, contrary to his usual custom, to think for himself.

The subject on which the person in question had ventured, for the first time in his life, to
form an opinion purely and entirely his own, was one which had already excited the interest
of his respected mistress in a very extraordinary degree.  Or, to put it in plainer terms still,
the subject was no other than the mystery of the empty House.

Feeling no sort of objection to set a success of his own, if possible, side by side with a
failure of Mr. Jarber's, Trottle made up his mind, one Monday evening, to try what he could
do, on his own account, towards clearing up the mystery of the empty House.  Carefully dismissing
from his mind all nonsensical notions of former tenants and their histories, and keeping the
one point in view steadily before him, he started to reach it in the shortest way, by walking
straight up to the House, and bringing himself face to face with the first person in it who
opened the door to him.

It was getting towards dark, on Monday evening, the thirteenth of the month, when Trottle first
set foot on the steps of the House.  When he knocked at the door, he knew nothing of the matter
which he was about to investigate, except that the landlord was an elderly widower of good
fortune, and that his name was Forley.  A small beginning enough for a man to start from, certainly!

On dropping the knocker, his first proceeding was to look down cautiously out of the corner
of his right eye, for any results which might show themselves at the kitchen-window.  There
appeared at it immediately the figure of a woman, who looked up inquisitively at the stranger
on the steps, left the window in a hurry, and came back to it with an open letter in her hand,
which she held up to the fading light.  After looking over the letter hastily for a moment
or so, the woman disappeared once more.

Trottle next heard footsteps shuffling and scraping along the bare hall of the house.  On a
sudden they ceased, and the sound of two voices--a shrill persuading voice and a gruff resisting
voice--confusedly reached his ears.  After a while, the voices left off speaking--a chain was
undone, a bolt drawn back--the door opened--and Trottle stood face to face with two persons,
a woman in advance, and a man behind her, leaning back flat against the wall.

"Wish you good evening, sir," says the woman, in such a sudden way, and in such a cracked voice,
that it was quite startling to hear her.  "Chilly weather, ain't it, sir?  Please to walk in.
You come from good Mr. Forley, don't you, sir?"

"Don't you, sir?" chimes in the man hoarsely, making a sort of gruff echo of himself, and chuckling
after it, as if he thought he had made a joke.

If Trottle had said, "No," the door would have been probably closed in his face.  Therefore,
he took circumstances as he found them, and boldly ran all the risk, whatever it might be,
of saying, "Yes."

"Quite right sir," says the woman.  "Good Mr. Forley's letter told us his particular friend
would be here to represent him, at dusk, on Monday the thirteenth--or, if not on Monday the
thirteenth, then on Monday the twentieth, at the same time, without fail.  And here you are
on Monday the thirteenth, ain't you, sir?  Mr. Forley's particular friend, and dressed all
in black--quite right, sir!  Please to step into the dining- room--it's always kep scoured
and clean against Mr. Forley comes here--and I'll fetch a candle in half a minute.  It gets
so dark in the evenings, now, you hardly know where you are, do you, sir?  And how is good
Mr. Forley in his health?  We trust he is better, Benjamin, don't we?  We are so sorry not
to see him as usual, Benjamin, ain't we?  In half a minute, sir, if you don't mind waiting,
I'll be back with the candle.  Come along, Benjamin."

"Come along, Benjamin," chimes in the echo, and chuckles again as if he thought he had made
another joke.

Left alone in the empty front-parlour, Trottle wondered what was coming next, as he heard the
shuffling, scraping footsteps go slowly down the kitchen-stairs.  The front-door had been carefully
chained up and bolted behind him on his entrance; and there was not the least chance of his
being able to open it to effect his escape, without betraying himself by making a noise.

Not being of the Jarber sort, luckily for himself, he took his situation quietly, as he found
it, and turned his time, while alone, to account, by summing up in his own mind the few particulars
which he had discovered thus far.  He had found out, first, that Mr. Forley was in the habit
of visiting the house regularly.  Second, that Mr. Forley being prevented by illness from seeing
the people put in charge as usual, had appointed a friend to represent him; and had written
to say so.  Third, that the friend had a choice of two Mondays, at a particular time in the
evening, for doing his errand; and that Trottle had accidentally hit on this time, and on the
first of the Mondays, for beginning his own investigations. Fourth, that the similarity between
Trottle's black dress, as servant out of livery, and the dress of the messenger (whoever he
might be), had helped the error by which Trottle was profiting.  So far, so good.  But what
was the messenger's errand? and what chance was there that he might not come up and knock at
the door himself, from minute to minute, on that very evening?

While Trottle was turning over this last consideration in his mind, he heard the shuffling
footsteps come up the stairs again, with a flash of candle-light going before them.  He waited
for the woman's coming in with some little anxiety; for the twilight had been too dim on his
getting into the house to allow him to see either her face or the man's face at all clearly.

The woman came in first, with the man she called Benjamin at her heels, and set the candle
on the mantel-piece.  Trottle takes leave to describe her as an offensively-cheerful old woman,
awfully lean and wiry, and sharp all over, at eyes, nose, and chin--devilishly brisk, smiling,
and restless, with a dirty false front and a dirty black cap, and short fidgetty arms, and
long hooked finger-nails--an unnaturally lusty old woman, who walked with a spring in her wicked
old feet, and spoke with a smirk on her wicked old face--the sort of old woman (as Trottle
thinks) who ought to have lived in the dark ages, and been ducked in a horse-pond, instead
of flourishing in the nineteenth century, and taking charge of a Christian house.

"You'll please to excuse my son, Benjamin, won't you, sir?" says this witch without a broomstick,
pointing to the man behind her, propped against the bare wall of the dining-room, exactly as
he had been propped against the bare wall of the passage.  "He's got his inside dreadful bad
again, has my son Benjamin.  And he won't go to bed, and he will follow me about the house,
up-stairs and downstairs, and in my lady's chamber, as the song says, you know.  It's his indisgestion,
poor dear, that sours his temper and makes him so agravating--and indisgestion is a wearing
thing to the best of us, ain't it, sir?"

"Ain't it, sir?" chimes in agravating Benjamin, winking at the candle- light like an owl at
the sunshine.

Trottle examined the man curiously, while his horrid old mother was speaking of him.  He found
"My son Benjamin" to be little and lean, and buttoned-up slovenly in a frowsy old great-coat
that fell down to his ragged carpet-slippers.  His eyes were very watery, his cheeks very pale,
and his lips very red.  His breathing was so uncommonly loud, that it sounded almost like a
snore.  His head rolled helplessly in the monstrous big collar of his great-coat; and his limp,
lazy hands pottered about the wall on either side of him, as if they were groping for a imaginary
bottle.  In plain English, the complaint of "My son Benjamin" was drunkenness, of the stupid,
pig-headed, sottish kind.  Drawing this conclusion easily enough, after a moment's observation
of the man, Trottle found himself, nevertheless, keeping his eyes fixed much longer than was
necessary on the ugly drunken face rolling about in the monstrous big coat collar, and looking
at it with a curiosity that he could hardly account for at first.  Was there something familiar
to him in the man's features?  He turned away from them for an instant, and then turned back
to him again.  After that second look, the notion forced itself into his mind, that he had
certainly seen a face somewhere, of which that sot's face appeared like a kind of slovenly
copy.  "Where?" thinks he to himself, "where did I last see the man whom this agravating Benjamin,
here, so very strongly reminds me of?"

It was no time, just then--with the cheerful old woman's eye searching him all over, and the
cheerful old woman's tongue talking at him, nineteen to the dozen--for Trottle to be ransacking
his memory for small matters that had got into wrong corners of it.  He put by in his mind
that very curious circumstance respecting Benjamin's face, to be taken up again when a fit
opportunity offered itself; and kept his wits about him in prime order for present necessities.

"You wouldn't like to go down into the kitchen, would you?" says the witch without the broomstick,
as familiar as if she had been Trottle's mother, instead of Benjamin's.  "There's a bit of
fire in the grate, and the sink in the back kitchen don't smell to matter much to-day, and
it's uncommon chilly up here when a person's flesh don't hardly cover a person's bones.  But
you don't look cold, sir, do you?  And then, why, Lord bless my soul, our little bit of business
is so very, very little, it's hardly worth while to go downstairs about it, after all.  Quite
a game at business, ain't it, sir?  Give-and-take that's what I call it--give-and-take!"

With that, her wicked old eyes settled hungrily on the region round about Trottle's waistcoat-pocket,
and she began to chuckle like her son, holding out one of her skinny hands, and tapping cheerfully
in the palm with the knuckles of the other.  Agravating Benjamin, seeing what she was about,
roused up a little, chuckled and tapped in imitation of her, got an idea of his own into his
muddled head all of a sudden, and bolted it out charitably for the benefit of Trottle.

"I say!" says Benjamin, settling himself against the wall and nodding his head viciously at
his cheerful old mother.  "I say!  Look out.  She'll skin you!"

Assisted by these signs and warnings, Trottle found no difficulty in understanding that the
business referred to was the giving and taking of money, and that he was expected to be the
giver.  It was at this stage of the proceedings that he first felt decidedly uncomfortable,
and more than half inclined to wish he was on the street-side of the house-door again.

He was still cudgelling his brains for an excuse to save his pocket, when the silence was suddenly
interrupted by a sound in the upper part of the house.

It was not at all loud--it was a quiet, still, scraping sound--so faint that it could hardly
have reached the quickest ears, except in an empty house.

"Do you hear that, Benjamin?" says the old woman.  "He's at it again, even in the dark, ain't
he?  P'raps you'd like to see him, sir!" says she, turning on Trottle, and poking her grinning
face close to him.  "Only name it; only say if you'd like to see him before we do our little
bit of business--and I'll show good Forley's friend up-stairs, just as if he was good Mr. Forley
himself.  My legs are all right, whatever Benjamin's may be.  I get younger and younger, and
stronger and stronger, and jollier and jollier, every day--that's what I do!  Don't mind the
stairs on my account, sir, if you'd like to see him."

"Him?" Trottle wondered whether "him" meant a man, or a boy, or a domestic animal of the male
species.  Whatever it meant, here was a chance of putting off that uncomfortable give-and-take-business,
and, better still, a chance perhaps of finding out one of the secrets of the mysterious House.
Trottle's spirits began to rise again and he said "Yes," directly, with the confidence of a
man who knew all about it.

Benjamin's mother took the candle at once, and lighted Trottle briskly to the stairs; and Benjamin
himself tried to follow as usual.  But getting up several flights of stairs, even helped by
the bannisters, was more, with his particular complaint, than he seemed to feel himself inclined
to venture on.  He sat down obstinately on the lowest step, with his head against the wall,
and the tails of his big great-coat spreading out magnificently on the stairs behind him and
above him, like a dirty imitation of a court lady's train.

"Don't sit there, dear," says his affectionate mother, stopping to snuff the candle on the
first landing.

"I shall sit here," says Benjamin, agravating to the last, "till the milk comes in the morning."

