Upon the capture of the city, the Greek community, owing to the recent death of the Patriarch
Athanasius, found itself without an ecclesiastical chief. The conqueror, anxious to conciliate
his Greek subjects, proclaimed complete religious toleration, and gave orders that they should
forthwith proceed to the free election of a new patriarch. Under the circumstances there could
be no question as to the right man for the place. Gennadius, who had opposed the unprofitable
Latin alliance, and saved the national Church notwithstanding the ruin of the Empire, was unanimously
chosen to be the first guide of his people along the strange and difficult path they were now
to follow. The choice being confirmed by the Sultan, Gennadius left the Pantokrator to do homage
to the new master of the realm. Every mark of honour was paid to the prelate. He was invited
to the royal table and granted a long audience, at which, following the practice of Byzantine
emperors, the Sultan presented him with a magnificent pastoral staff, and promised to respect
all the ancient privileges of the patriarchal see. When Gennadius took leave, the Sultan accompanied
him to the foot of the stairs of the palace, saw him mounted on a fine and richly caparisoned
horse, and ordered the notables of the court to escort him to the church of the Holy Apostles,
which was to replace S. Sophia as the cathedral of the Greek Communion.[399] It was certainly
fortunate for the Orthodox Church at that cruel moment in its history to find in one of the
cells of the Pantokrator a man able to win the goodwill of the Empire's conqueror. When nothing
could save the State, Gennadius saved the nation's Church, and with the Church many forms of
national life. Muralt, looking at these transactions from another standpoint, says, 'C'est
ainsi que les Grecs virent accompli leur voeu d'être délivrés de l'union avec les Latins.'[400]

It would appear that the Pantokrator was abandoned by its Christian owners very soon after
the conquest. The great decrease of the Greek population that followed the downfall of the
city left several quarters of Constantinople with few if any Christian inhabitants, and so
brought to an end the native religious service in many churches of the capital. For some time
thereafter the deserted building was used by fullers and workers in leather as a workshop and
dwelling.[401] But the edifice was too grand to be allowed to suffer permanent degradation,
and some twenty years later it was consecrated to Moslem worship by a certain Zeïrek Mehemed
Effendi.[402] Its actual name, Zeïrek Kilissi Jamissi, recalls the double service the building
has rendered, and the person who diverted it from its earlier to its later use.

Architectural Features

As it stands the Pantokrator is a combination of three churches, placed side by side, and communicating
with one another through arched openings in their common walls. The three buildings are not
of the same date, and opinions differ in regard to their relative age. On the whole, however,
the northern church may be safely considered the earliest structure; the central church is
somewhat later; the southern church is the latest.

The Northern Church.--This is a simple and dignified building of the domed 'four column' type,
with a gynaeceum above the narthex. Its southern bay, however, is a later extension, running
about half-way in front of the central church to give access to a door into that building.
Only two bays of the original narthex have doors opening into the north church; the third door
which once existed in the northern bay has been partly built up. The narthex is very much out
of repair, and the western wall threatens to fall outwards. The dome, pierced by eight windows,
shows so many Turkish features that it may be pronounced as mostly, if not wholly, a Turkish
construction. The four square piers which support it are manifestly Turkish. When Gyllius visited
the church in the sixteenth century the dome arches rested on four columns of Theban granite,
'hemispherium sustentatur quatuor arcubus, quos fulciunt quatuor columnae marmoris Thebaici.'[403]
Barrel vaults cover the arms of the cross, which, as usual in churches of this type, appears
distinctly above the roof on the exterior. The southern arm extends to the central church and
its vault is pierced by two windows, inserted, probably, to compensate for the loss of light
occasioned by the erection of that building. These windows furnish one indication of the earlier
date of the north church. The gynaeceum, like the narthex below it, is covered with cross-groined
vaults and contains a small fireplace. The prothesis and diaconicon have barrel vaults and
apses with three sides projecting slightly on the exterior. The main apse has a very lofty
triple window, and shows five sides. All the apses are decorated with high shallow blind niches,
a simple but effective ornament.[404]

The Central Church.--The central church is an oblong hall covered by two domes, and terminates
in a large apse. It is extremely irregular in plan, and does not lie parallel to either of
the churches between which it stands. The domes are separated by a transverse arch. The western
dome, though flattened somewhat on the four sides, is approximately circular, and divided into
sixteen shallow concave compartments, each pierced by a window. Some of these windows must
have been always blocked by the roof of the north church. The eastern dome is a pronounced
oval, notwithstanding the attempt to form a square base for it by building a subsidiary arch
both on the south and on the north. It is divided into twenty-four concave compartments, twelve
of which have windows. The drums of the domes adjoin each other above the transverse arch,
so that the central west window of the eastern dome is pierced through to the western dome.
The two windows on either side of that window are blind, and must always have been so. The
floor in the archway leading into the south church is paved with inlaid marbles forming a beautiful
design (Fig. 76). If the whole floor of the church was thus decorated the effect must have
been extremely rich. On the exterior the apse shows seven sides, decorated with shallow blind
niches. Like the church it is very irregularly set out. (Plate LXIX.)

The central church probably served as a mausoleum for the tombs of the imperial personages
interred at the Pantokrator. In its form and in the arrangement of its domes, as well as in
its position on the south of the church to which it strictly belongs, it resembles the parecclesion
of S. Saviour in the Chora (p. 310).

The South Church.--The south church is of the same plan as the north church, but is larger
and more richly decorated. It has two narthexes, which extend to both the north and south beyond
the body of the building. The outer narthex, entered by a single door placed in the centre,
is in five bays, covered with cross-groined vaults resting on pilasters. Its floor is paved
with large slabs of Proconnesian marble surrounded by a border of red marble. Five doors lead
to the esonarthex--the three central doors being framed in red marble, the other two in verd
antique. On either side of the central door is a window also framed in verd antique, the jambs
of the windows being cut from old columns, and retaining the circular form on their faces.
Over the central door and the windows beside it is a large arch between two smaller arches--all
three, as well as their bracket capitals, now partially built up. There is a door framed in
verd antique in each end bay of the narthex. Like the outer narthex the esonarthex is in five
bays, and was paved with marble in a similar fashion. But while its other bays are covered
with cross-groined vaults the central bay is open to the gallery above, and is overhung by
a drum dome. The gallery was thus divided into two parts by the open central bay, and both
gallery and narthex were lighted by the dome. The exterior of this dome is twelve-sided, with
flat angle pilasters and level moulded plaster cornice. It has evidently been repaired by the
Turks. The inside, however, preserves the Byzantine work. It is in twenty-four concave apartments
pierced by twelve windows, of which those facing the west cross arm of the church are blind.
As the original west window still shows from the inside, though built up, it would appear that
the gynecaeum dome was added after the completion of the main church. At present the open bay
is ceiled by the woodwork that forms the floor of the tribune occupied by the Sultan when he
attends worship in the mosque.[405] A door in the northern wall of the north bay communicates
with the narthex of the north church, while a door in the eastern wall of the bay gives access
to the central church. Two doors in similar positions in the bay at the south end of the narthex
led to buildings which have disappeared. The three doors leading from the narthex into the
church are framed in red marble, the other doors in white marble. The main dome of the church
is in sixteen compartments, and is pierced by as many windows. Its arches rest on four shafted
columns, somewhat Gothic in character, and crowned with capitals distinctly Turkish. These
columns have replaced the columns of porphyry, seven feet in circumference, which Gyllius saw
bearing the arches of the dome when he visited the church: 'maximum (tectum) sustentatur quatuor
columnis pyrrhopoecilis, quarum perimeter habet septem pedes.'[406] The southern wall is lighted
by a triple window in the gable and a row of three windows below the string-course. The northern
wall was treated on the same plan, but with the modifications rendered necessary by the union
of the church with the earlier central church. The triple windows in the gable of that wall
are therefore almost blocked by the roof of the central church against which it is built; while
the three windows below the string-course are blind and are cut short by the arch opening into
the central church, as that arch rises higher than the string-course.

As explained, the gynaeceum above the inner narthex is divided by the open central bay of that
narthex into two compartments, each consisting of two bays. The bays to the south are narrow,
with transverse arches of decidedly elliptical form. A window divided by shafts in three lights,
now built up, stood in the bay at the extreme south, and similar windows looked down into the
open bay of the narthex from the bays on either hand. The northern compartment of the gynaeceum
connects with the gynaeceum of the north church.

In the interior the apse retains a large portion of its revetment of variously coloured marbles,
and gives some idea of the original splendour of the decoration. Fragments of fine carving
have been built into the pulpit of the mosque, and over it is a Byzantine canopy supported
on twin columns looped together, like the twin columns on the façade of S. Mark's at Venice.

The lateral apses are covered with cross-groined vaults, and project in three sides externally,
while the central apse shows seven sides. All are lighted by triple windows, and decorated
on the exterior with niches, like the other apses in this group of buildings, and those of
S. Theodosia.

In the brickwork found in the fabric of the Pantokrator, as Mr. W. S. George has pointed out,
two sizes of brick are employed, a larger and a smaller size laid in alternate courses. The
larger bricks look like old material used again.

As already intimated, the monastery was autonomous ([Greek; autodespotos, autexousios]), and
its abbot was elected by the brotherhood in the following manner:--On some suitable occasion
the abbot for the time being placed secretly in a box the names of three members of the fraternity
whom he considered fit to succeed him after his death, and having sealed the box deposited
it in the sacristy of the church. Upon that abbot's death the box was opened in the presence
of the whole fraternity, and the names recommended by the late chief were then put to the vote.
If the votes were unanimous the person thus chosen became the new abbot without further delay.
But in case of disagreement, a brother who could neither read nor write placed the same names
upon the altar of the church; there they remained for three days; and then, after the celebration
of a solemn service, another illiterate monk drew one name off the altar, and in doing so decided
the question who should fill the vacant office. The church was served by eighty priests and
fifty assistants, who were divided into two sets, officiating on alternate weeks.

In connection with the monastery there was a bath, capable of containing six persons, in which
the monks were required to bathe twice a month, except during Lent, when the bath was used
only in cases of illness.

The home for old men supported by the House accommodated twenty-four persons, providing them
with bread, wine, oil, cheese, fuel, medical attendance, and small gifts of money.

The hospital had fifty beds for the poor. It was divided into five wards: a ward of ten beds
for surgical cases; another, of eight beds, for grave cases; a third, of ten beds, for less
serious complaints; the fourth ward had twelve beds for women; the fifth contained ten beds
for what seemed light cases. Each ward was in charge of two physicians, three medical assistants,
and four servitors. A lady physician, six lady medical assistants, and two female nurses, took
charge of the female patients. The sick were visited daily by a house doctor, who inquired
whether they were satisfied with their treatment, examined their diet, and saw to the cleanliness
of the beds. The ordinary diet consisted of bread, beans, onions, oil, and wine.[407] Throughout
their history the monasteries of Constantinople remembered the poor. (See Plate III.)

[358] De top. C.P. iv. c. 2, p. 283, 'in supercilio quarti collis vergente ad solis ortum visitur
templum Pantocratoris, illustre memoria recentium scriptorum.'

[359] Tagebuch, p. 157.

[360] Itin. russes, pp. 105, 233-34.

[361] Du Cange, Const. Christ. iv. p. 81; Itin. russes, pp. 123, 203-4.

[362] Synax., August 13; Cinnamus, p. 9; Phrantzes, p. 210.

[363] Du Cange, C.P. Christ. iv. p. 81, quoting Anselm, bishop of Havelsberg, who was in Constantinople
as the ambassador of Lothair the Great to the Emperor John in 1145.

[364] MS. No. 85, in the Library of the Theological Seminary at Halki.

[365] Synax., 13th August.

[366] Pp. 66, 151.

[367] MS. No. 85, in the Library of the Theological Seminary at Halki.

[368] Vol. i. p. 555.

[369] Ancient and Modern C.P. p. 69.

[370] Cinnamus, p. 14; Guntherus Parisiensis in Riant's Exuviae sacrae, p. 105. The sarcophagus
that forms part of a Turkish fountain to the west of the church is usually, but without any
proof, considered to be the tomb of Irene. A long flight of steps near it leads to the cistern
below the church.

[371] Cinnamus, p. 31.

[372] Nicet. Chon. pp. 53, 56, 66.

[373] Synax., October 26th.

[374] Nicet. Chon. p. 151.

[375] Ibid. p. 289.

[376] Nicet. Chon. p. 151.

[377] Riant, Exuviae sacrae, ii. p. 232.

[378] Nicet. Chon. pp. 332-33, 354-55.

[379] Riant, Exuviae sacrae, i. pp. 104 seq.

[380] Belin, Histoire de la latinité de Constantinople, pp. 73-74, 113-14.

[381] Pachym. i. p. 160; Niceph. Greg. p. 87; G. Acropolita, pp. 196-97. The last writer says
the eikon was taken from the monastery of the Hodegon, which was its proper shrine. The eikon
may have been removed from the Pantokrator to the church of Hodegetria on the eve of the triumphal
entry.

[382] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 85. Cf. Canale, Nuova Storia, ii. p. 153, quoted by Belin, Latinité
de C.P. p. 22, 'ov'erano la chiesa, la loggia, il palazzo dei Veneziani,' cf. Belin, p. 92.

[383] George Acropolita, p. 195. On the contrary, Pachymeres represents Baldwin as taking flight
from the palace of Blachernae, and embarking at the Great Palace. See vol. i. of that historian's
works, pp. 132-48.

[384] Belin, Histoire de la latinité de C.P. pp. 22-23, quoting Canale, Nuova Storia, ii. p.
153; cf. Sauli, i. p. 55. According to Fanucci, the Venetians themselves removed their national
emblems from the Pantokrator and tore down the monastery.--Belin, ut supra, pp. 88, 92.

[385] Pachym. i. p. 402.

[386] Ibid. ii. pp. 87-88; Niceph. Greg. i. p. 167.

[387] Ibid. i. pp. 273, 233-34.

[388] Phrantzes, p. 121.

[389] Ibid. p. 210.

[390] Ibid. p. 134.

[391] Ibid. p. 203.

[392] Ibid. p. 203.

[393] Ibid. p. 191.

[394] Ibid. p. 191.

[395] Muralt, ad annum.

[396] Phrantzes, p. 156.

[397] Ibid. p. 156.

[398] Ducas, pp. 252-60.

[399] Phrantzes, pp. 304-7.

[400] Essai de chronographie byzantine, ii. p. 889.

[401] Ducas, p. 318.

[402] Chadekat, vol. i. p. 118, quoted by Paspates, p. 312.

[403] De top. C.P. iv. c. 2.

[404] 'The breaking of wall surfaces by pilasters and blind niches is a custom immemorial in
Oriental brickwork.'--The Thousand and One Churches, by Sir W. Ramsay and Miss Lothian Bell,
p. 448.

[405] It is reached by an inclined plane built against the exterior of the south wall of the
church.

[406] De top. C.P. iv. c. 2.

[407] For these particulars we are indebted to MS. 85, formerly in the library of the theological
seminary at Halki. According to the same authority, near the Pantokrator stood a church dedicated
to the Theotokos Eleousa, and between the two buildings was the chapel of S. Michael that contained
the tombs of the Emperor John Comnenus and the Empress Irene. But according to Cinnamus (pp.
14, 31), as we have seen (p. 221), those tombs were in the Pantokrator. Is it possible that
of the three buildings commonly styled the church of the Pantokrator, one of the lateral churches
was dedicated specially to the Theotokos Eleousa, and that the central building which served
as a mausoleum was dedicated to the archangel Michael? The parecclesion of the Chora where
Tornikes was buried (p. 310) was associated, as the frescoes in its western dome prove, with
the angelic host.

CHAPTER XVI

THE CHURCH OF S. THEODORE, KILISSI MESJEDI

High up the western slope of the Third Hill, in a quiet Turkish quarter reached by a narrow
street leading off Vefa Meidan, stands a small but graceful Byzantine church, known since its
use as a mosque by the style Kilissi Mesjedi. Authorities differ in regard to its dedication.
Gyllius[408] was told that the church had been dedicated to S. Theodore. On the other hand,
Le Noir, on the strength of information furnished by Greek friends, and after him Bayet, Fergusson,
Salzenberg, claim it as the church of the Theotokos of Lips. But the church of that dedication
was certainly elsewhere (p. 123). Mordtmann[409] suggests that we have here the church of S.
Anastasia Pharmacolytria ([Greek: tês pharmakolytrias]),[410] and supports his view by the
following argument. In the first place the church of S. Theodore the Tiro was situated in the
quarter of Sphorakius,[411] which was in the immediate vicinity of S. Sophia,[412] and therefore
not near Vefa Meidan. Secondly, the indications given by Antony of Novgorod and by the Anonymus
of the eleventh century respecting the position of S. Anastasia point to the site of Kilissi
Mesjedi. The fact that the church was ever supposed to be dedicated to S. Theodore is, in Mordtmann's
opinion, a mistake occasioned by the circumstance that both S. Theodore and S. Anastasia were
credited with the power of exposing sorcery and frauds, so that a church associated with one
of these saints might readily be transferred to the other, especially in the confusion which
followed the Turkish conquest.

In reply to this line of argument, it may be urged, first, that the presence of a church of
S. Theodore in the district of Sphorakius does not prevent the existence of a church with a
similar dedication in another part of the city. S. Theodore was a popular saint. There was
a church named after him in the district of Claudius ([Greek: ta Klaudiou]);[413] another church
built in his honour stood in the district Carbounaria ([Greek: ta Karbounaria]);[414] the private
chapel of the emperors in the Great Palace was dedicated to S. Theodore;[415] and according
to Phrantzes,[416] a church dedicated at once to S. Theodore the Tiro and S. Theodore the General,
as at Athens, was erected in Constantinople in his day. As to the indications supposed to favour
the view that the church of S. Anastasia stood at Kilissi Mesjedi, they are, to say the least,
exceedingly vague and inconclusive. According to Antony of Novgorod[417] the shrine of S. Anastasia
was found near the church of the Pantokrator, on the Fourth Hill, whereas Kilissi Mesjedi stands
on the Third Hill. Furthermore, the order in which the Anonymus[418] refers to the church of
S. Anastasia Pharmacolytria, immediately before the Leomacellum, which Mordtmann identifies
with the Et Meidan, would allow us to place S. Anastasia in the valley of the Lycus. Under
these circumstances it is wiser to accept the information given to Gyllius as correct; for
while the Greeks of his day were not infallible in their identification of the buildings of
the city, there is no evidence that they were mistaken in this particular case.

Paspates[419] agrees so far with this view, but maintains, at the same time, that the building
was the church of S. Theodore 'in the district of Sphorakius.' That identification is inadmissible,
for beyond all dispute the district of Sphorakius stood close to S. Sophia and not at Vefa
Meidan. Mühlmann[420] likewise regards Kilissi Mesjedi as a church of S. Theodore, and identifies
it with the church dedicated to that saint in the district of Carbounaria. This is possible,
although the Anonymus[421] mentions the Carbounaria before the Anemodoulion and the forum of
Taurus (the region of the Turkish War Office), and consequently suggests a position for the
Carbounaria much farther to the east than Vefa Meidan. Still the order in which the Anonymus
mentions places and monuments cannot be confidently appealed to as coincident with their relative
positions.

(For other details see Figs. 19, 54.)

To which of the many saints named Theodore in the Greek Calendar this church was actually dedicated
is a point open to discussion, but we cannot go far wrong in ascribing it to one of the two
most prominent saints of that name, or, as sometimes was the case, to both of them, S. Theodore
the Tiro and S. Theodore the General. The former was a young soldier in the Roman army who
was tortured and put to death in 306 for not taking part in the persecution of Christians under
Maximian. The latter was a general in the army of Licinius, and won the martyr's crown for
refusing to sacrifice to false gods, and for breaking their images in pieces. He was the titular
saint of the great church in Venice before that honour was bestowed upon S. Mark the Evangelist.
His relics were carried to Venice from Constantinople in 1260, and his figure still stands
on one of the columns in the Piazzetta of S. Mark, with the attribute of a dragon or a crocodile,
symbolic of the false gods he destroyed.[422]

Architectural Features

