2d. It is extremely difficult to form an opinion, or even a guess, on the question of relative
numbers; but I have always fancied, that, could the whole nation have been polled on the subject,
the number of Northern well-wishers would have been found sensibly to exceed that of the Southern.
Generally, men of very grave, reflective, and unprejudiced minds, students in the philosophy
of society and history, men known for their lofty ideal of liberty or of culture, appeared
to be on the side of the North; and the calm, unfaltering attitude, free from petulance and
invective, of those operative classes in Lancashire, whom the war ruined for a while, has often
been pointed to as showing that the more informed and intelligent workingmen were also for
the North. They endured a great calamity without murmuring, because they thought the cause
just which had entailed that calamity upon them. Assuming this to be correct, as I believe
it to be, the question remains, What was the opinion (or perhaps one should rather say the
sentiment) of the class below this,--the great numerical bulk of the population, who would
take sides according as their sympathies, imaginations, prejudices, or traditional conceptions
of the right might be roused, irrespectively in the main of reasoning as to any antecedents
or consequences? I incline to suppose that the most powerful impulsion to the feelings of this
class must have been that strong anti-slavery sentiment which had undoubtedly for many years
been bone of the bone of Englishmen,--more powerful even than that sympathy for an overmatched
struggle on behalf of independence which would have pleaded for the South. If this is a correct
view, it may be inferred that the majority of the poorer classes was for the North; as they,
without refining over the question, would regard the contest as one between Slavery and Anti-slavery,
the latter represented by the North and the former by the South. Short, however, of some decided
majority for the North in these classes, whose views do not transpire much upon the surface
of English opinion, I fear the majority of the whole nation would have been found to be with
the South; and could I take my own sphere of society as the criterion, I should be compelled
to say that so it was in overwhelming preponderance. A more diffused connection with America,
through the emigration movement, and through community of interest and feeling with a democratic
nation, may have combined with a truer instinct of right in the popular heart to rectify the
balance; and in default of evidence to the contrary, I am fain to suppose it did.--A few words
must be added as to one branch of our immediate subject,--the doubt or disbelief of the sincerity
of the North on the question of Slavery. Had no prejudice or perversity of argument been imported
into the subject, it would, I imagine, have been apparent to most of my countrymen that the
dominant party at the North was genuinely antagonistic to slavery; that, as long as the South
did not violate the Federal Constitution, the North was trammelled from interfering with slavery
as already established by law in certain States; that the duty immediately imposed upon the
North and the Government by the act of Secession was one and undivided,--the maintenance of
the Constitution and of the Union; but that, in proportion to the obstinacy of Southern resistance,
the antagonism to slavery would obtain free play in the North, the slavery question would assume
greater and greater prominence as the nexus of the whole debate, and those who had at first
been bound to make a stand for an extant Union and compromise would be impelled and more than
willing to fight on for reunion and abolition. But this view of the matter was consistently
distorted. The constitutionalism and nationalism of the North figured in argument as indifference
to slavery, the steps taken towards, the emancipation of slaves as mere hypocritical stratagems
of war, and the climax of disingenuousness was reached when the anti-conscription and anti-negro
riots of New York were fastened upon that very war-party against which they had been levelled.
Systematic misrepresentations of this nature, invidious glosses and plausible misconstructions,
did undoubtedly conspire with the really complicated conditions of the case and the undisputed
fact of certain antipathies of race (predicable as truly of the Northern States as of any other
part of the world) to persuade very many Englishmen that the North was not sincerely hostile
to slavery, but used the Anti-slavery or the Abolition cry as a mere feint to disguise the
lust of domination. Those who liked to be persuaded of this were persuaded with the utmost
ease; and even among men who considered the subject without bias, many were confused and shaken.

3d. The party which cared only for the anti-slavery aspect of the contest was large. Their
attitude is to a certain extent indicated in what has just been said. One and not an insignificant
section of them would have sided frankly with the North, if satisfied that the Northern triumph
would be an anti-slavery triumph; but, talked as they were, or talking themselves, into the
belief that slavery had little more to fear from the North than the South, they remained, at
least during the earlier part of the war, indifferent or indignant. Others, of course the great
majority, watched eagerly every symptom and every step which proved the North to be in earnest
in the work of abolition; they thrilled to the sounds which "proclaimed liberty to the captive,"--the
tones of Northern manifestoes and legislation, the tread of Northern legions, and the volleys
fired by negro soldiers. They got to feel a genuine veneration and even enthusiasm for President
Lincoln, and formed probably the only section of men or women in this country who could speak
of General Butler without bringing "railing accusations." The party was diffused over the length
and breadth of the land. It numbered, I suppose, some adherents even in the aristocratic and
governing classes,--thousands, no doubt, among the working and laboring millions; but its central
strength was in that backbone of English philanthropic effort, the more plebeian section of
the well-to-do middle class,--that section which gravitates towards Dissent, in religion, towards
Radicalism in politics, towards Bible Societies, Temperance Movements, "Bands of Hope," and
Exeter Hall. If this section of the British community had not remained true to anti-slavery
ideas, the country would indeed have been turned "the seamy side without." That we were spared,
in the severer crises of the war, the last uglinesses of tergiversation, is owing mainly to
people of this class, the cheapest subjects for well-bred sneers and intellectual superiority
in ordinary times.

4th. The party which believed in the right and the probable eventual success of the South was
obviously, during the greater part of the war, a numerous one. In the earlier stages of Secession,
when the chief question before one's thoughts was that of right, I think that comparatively
few people sided with the South, though very many were lukewarm or frigid, or actually inimical
towards the North. At that time party-spirit still respected the old-fashioned notions, that
a self-governing nation must be ruled by its own majority, not minority; that a minority which
cried out before it was hurt, and "cut the connection" rather than the balance in its own favor,
was likely to be a factious and misguided minority; and that a new commonwealth, whose raison
d'être was Slavery, had little claim to the sympathies of Englishmen or of civilization. Others
laid greater stress from the first on the argument, that the States of the Union were all sovereign
states, which had respectively entered into a voluntary bond, and could voluntarily withdraw
from it without gainsaying; and that this ground of right on the side of the South remained
unaffected by any accessory considerations. This view rapidly gained over the willing convictions
of Southern sympathizers, when the impulse and determination, the courage and early successes
of the South, had once roused strong feelings in its favor. The earlier argumentative view
as to majorities and minorities, and the fundamental basis of all governments, sank into desuetude,
while the right of a compact community to independent self-government at its own option occupied
the field of vision. Vast numbers of people--I should think, during the greater part of the
war, four fifths of the whole country--believed in the success of the South; considering it
impossible that so determined a community, with so vast a territory, should ever be coerced
into reunion, and not being prepared for an equal amount of determination on the part of the
Northern Government and people, or for their capacity, even had the will been admitted, to
meet the required outlay in money and men. Another question, too, was prominent in men's minds,
and indisposed them to contemplating a subjugated South. They would ask, "What is to be done
with the South, on the unlikely supposition of its being conquered? Is it to become an American
Poland?" All these considerations inclined the great majority of the nation to believe that
the South would succeed; and, of those who so believed, a large proportion held the Southerners
to be in the right, or sympathized with them to a degree which obscured the strict question
of right in favor of preference.

5th. The party which believed in the right of the South, but which doubted or disbelieved its
eventual success, appears to me to have been most inconsiderable up to the final stages of
the war. I doubt whether I ever met two men, prior, let me say, to Sherman's march through
Georgia, who would distinctly limit themselves to this: "I wish the South might succeed, but
I don't think it will." When the impending catastrophe of the South was no longer disputable,
the Saturday Review, the idol of our Club-men and University-men, of those who are at once
highly cultivated and intensely English, and who fancy themselves freer from prejudice and
more large-minded than others in proportion to their incapacity to perceive that their own
prejudices are prejudices,--a paper which had "gone in for" the South with a vehemence only
balanced by its virulence against the North,--found it convenient to turn tail, and retort
upon those opponents with whom the laugh remained at last. The Saturday Review bleated pitifully,
yet unconfessingly, to this effect:--"True it is that we have been backing up the South all
the while; but we meant no more by it than the backer of any prize-fighter or any race-horse
means, when he has made his choice, and staked his money, and shouts to adopted competitor,
'Go in and win!' That backer does not necessarily believe that his side will be the winner,
but only signalizes that that side is his." The evasion came too late; persons who had inconvenient
memories saw through the shuffling of a pseudo-prophet, who only managed to cast a retrospective
gleam of insincerity over his fortune-telling, to convert blunder into bad faith, and to stultify
his present along with his past position. The leek had to be eaten at last: why, after so many
"prave 'ords" of superiority and defiance, confess that the eating of it had been more than
half foreseen all along?

6th. The party which believed in the eventual success of the South, but doubted or disbelieved
its right, must have been pretty considerable, if my previous estimates are true; for I have
already advanced the conjecture that more than half the nation sided with the North, while
four fifths believed for a long time in the success of the South. This fact alone, if correctly
alleged, furnishes tolerable evidence of the persistency and influence of pro-Southern papers
and partisans, and their ingenuity in so misreading the facts,

    "Chè il no e il sì nel capo ci tenzona."

The event has proved that the chances of success were really very much on the side of the North.
The superiority in material resources, and certain solid and undeniable successes obtained
at and early stage of the war, such as the capture of New Orleans, were known to be on the
same side. Slighter grounds would in most cases have sufficed to persuade minds predisposed
by sympathy that this side would win; yet the Southern advocates shuffled and played the cards
well enough to induce an opposite conclusion in numerous instances. And no doubt many who began
by simply believing that the South would succeed went on to think that the North deserved to
lose,--partly because, upon such an assumption, the personal superiority must have been very
largely with the South, and partly because a combatant who has no fair chance of winning ought
to give in, and not persist in shedding blood in vain. If a big man fights a little one, and
turns out upon experiment to have next to no chance of beating him, one soon gets angry with
the big one for "pegging away," even though one may at first have perceived him to be in the
right. Such seemed to many English observers to be the condition of the case in America. They
were mistaken, but excusable; but for the error in their premise, their deduction would have
been correct, or at least not irrational.

