Though, of course, Socrates had more fire, more of the demon in him, one can well believe that
at times, and when his circumambient irony was at its gentlest, it must have been like that
of Matthew Arnold. Matthew Arnold has been called over fastidious, but I do not think that
is fair. Fastidious he no doubt was. Also he thought it his duty to rub in our national want
of fastidiousness, and our proneness to mistake nickel for silver. It must not be supposed,
however, that Matthew Arnold could not endure to look upon the world as it is because of the
high standard he had set up in Literature and in the Arts. In reality his was a wise and comprehensive
view. He could enjoy men and things in practice even when he disapproved of them in theory.
His inimitably delicate distinctions were drawn quite as much in favour of the weak as in support
of the strong. Take, for example, his famous mot, "I would not say he was not a gentleman,
but if you said so, I should understand what you meant." For example, Matthew Arnold would
not have said that Shelley was not a poet. If, however, you had said so, he would have very
nearly agreed with you, and would have given all sorts of reasons to support your view. Yet,
in all probability, he would at the same time have urged you not to forget that all the same
he had a claim to a good place, if not a front place, in the glorious choir of Apollo.

I cannot remember any particular thing said on that occasion by Matthew Arnold, but I do remember
very well how pleased and touched I was when after dinner he crossed over from his side of
the table, and sitting down by me, began talking about the members of his family, whom he seemed
to know that I knew. I knew Mrs. Ward; I knew his niece, Miss Arnold, Mrs. Ward's sister, soon
to become Mrs. Leonard Huxley, and, last but not least, I was on the closest terms of intimacy
with that most admirable of journalists, Willie Arnold of the Manchester Guardian. Probably
because I was acting as a sort of aide-de-camp and son of the house to my father-in-law, Mr.
Simpson, I did not get a connected literary talk. Besides, I felt sure that from his friendliness
I should later have plenty of opportunities to ask a hundred things of his spiritual home.
Little did I know how soon he was to be cut off.

Browning was the other poet for whom I felt a very strong admiration and whom I had often wanted
to meet. Though a friend of the Simpsons, and a visitor and diner at their house, I met him
not at 14 Cornwall Gardens but at a very small dinner-party in the house of a common friend.
After dinner Browning, Sir Sidney Colvin, another man, and I were left drinking our coffee
and our port and smoking our cigarettes. Browning was, I believe, often inclined to talk like
a man of the world about people or stocks and shares rather than about literature. But I was
determined to do what I could to prevent him pushing that foible too far. Therefore I did my
very best to lead the conversation on to better pastures. I had always loved Landor, and something
or other gave me an opportunity to ask a question about him. Mr. Browning, I felt sure, must
have known him in his last years at Florence.

I was happy in my venture and struck a vein of reminiscence of a very poignant kind. Browning
told us that he did not know Landor very well, but that he saw him in the last years of his
life under circumstances of a terribly pathetic kind. Landor played almost exactly the part
of King Lear--though from a different reason--and got almost exactly King Lear's reward. Landor,
it will be remembered, was originally a rich man. It will also be remembered that he was possessed
of a very arbitrary and turbulent nature and quarrelled with many members of his family, and
especially with his own children. However, they lived in a villa at Fiesole for some time,
in a kind of turbulent domesticity. Landor, on leaving England, had unwisely given away his
property to his children, thinking that he could rely upon them to be kind to him. But he had
not trained them in the ways of kindness. He had been hot, brutal, and tyrannical to them when
he had the power. When they got it they were equally brutal to him. At last his daughter determined
to bear the old man's ill-temper--ill-temper, apparently, approaching to madness--no longer.
He was told by Miss Landor that if he could not control himself better she would not tolerate
him any longer in the villa, and would, in fact, turn him out of doors. He disobeyed her injunctions,
or, as she probably put it, failed to keep his promise of better behaviour, and then, incredible
as it sounds from anyone who had ever read Lear, she actually barred the doors of what had
once been his home against the unhappy old man and drove him out to wander whither he could.
If she did not physically put him out of doors, she put humiliations so unendurable upon him
that, like Lear, he left the house in an agony of broken- heartedness and despair. The once-proud
poet had very few friends in Florence, little or no money, and literally nowhere to go. The
result was that he wandered, half-distracted, like Lear, bewailing the wound at his heart which
a daughter's hand had given. Somehow, like an old, stray, and starving dog, he wandered to
the Brownings' house. There, needless to say, he found rest for the body and comfort for the
soul. Mrs. Browning did everything she could for Landor--took him in, fed him, put him to bed,
and strove to quiet and soften his fierce and pitiful and outraged heart. Browning went on
to tell how as soon as the old man was a little composed, he drove up to Fiesole to see Miss
Landor--thinking that perhaps, after all, it was only a family quarrel which could be tactfully
adjusted. That supposition proved entirely mistaken.

I found [said Browning] an almost exact reincarnation of the daughters of Lear in Miss Landor.
She was perfectly hard and perfectly cold. She told me of her father's troublesome ways, nay,
misdeeds, of how she had borne them for a long time, of how he had promised better behaviour,
and of how he had broken his word again and again. At last the limit had been passed. She could
endure him in her house no longer. I argued with her [he went on] as well as I could, urged
that she evidently did not realise her father's mental condition, and pointed out that whatever
his past faults he was now lying in my house a dying man, and dying of a broken heart. I hoped
and believed that my description of his anguish and his distraction would melt her.

Then came the most terrible part of the story. Miss Landor must, I suppose, have accompanied
Browning through the garden to the gate of the villa, and there spoke her final words. Browning
said something about the remorse which she would inevitably feel. Her father had, no doubt,
given her great provocation, but if the end came before she had forgiven him and helped him,
she would never be able to forgive herself. His words were of no avail. She had Goneril's heart.
Pointing to a ditch at the side of the road, she answered, "I tell you, Mr. Browning, that
if my father lay dying in that ditch, I would not lift a finger to save him."

And so Browning went back to Casa Guido. He had looked into the awful depths which Shakespeare
had explored--an agony of the mind beyond words, and beyond solution. The sense of pity and
terror had been raised for which even the poet's art could find no purgation.

What he said to the unhappy old man when he returned to Florence he did not tell us. Mercifully,
Landor's memory was failing, and so one may hope that the waters of the Lethe brought him like
Lear their blessed relief.

Strangely enough, no poet ever sang their healing virtues more poignantly than did Landor.
When Agamemnon, in Landor's poem, red from Clytemnestra's axe, reaches the Shades, the Hours
bring him their golden goblet. He drinks and forgets. He is no more maddened by the thought
that his daughter will learn his fate. Till then he had felt:

  the first woman coming from Mycenae
   Will pine to pour the poison in her ear.

I have set down, I believe correctly, what I heard Browning tell, but I am bound to add that
it does not quite correspond with the facts given in the Dictionary of National Biography.
Leslie Stephen in the life of Landor mentions the quarrel and the kind intervention of the
Brownings, but does not make the incident nearly so tragic. Very probably indignation made
Browning emphasise the bad side of the story. Also he was telling of something which had taken
place thirty years before. Finally, it is thirty-five years since I heard the conversation
here recorded and indignation has also, no doubt, played its part in deepening the colours
of my narration. But, though for these reasons I do not suggest that the details I have given
are of biographical importance, I feel absolutely certain on two essential points: (1) Browning
unquestionably compared the scene he witnessed to Lear and compared it in the most striking
and poignant way. (2) The words put into the mouth of Miss Landor are not any invention or
addition of mine. They made a profound impression upon me and I am sure they are the actual
words I heard Browning use. He spoke them with passion and dramatic intent, and they still
ring in my ears. My memory for many things is as treacherous as that of most people, but when
a certain degree of dramatic intensity is reached the record on the tablets of my mind is almost
always correct and remains unchanged.

Before I leave the subject of my wife's family and friends and of the warm-hearted kindness
with which they received me, I ought to say something about my father-in-law, Mr. Simpson.
Though he had not his wife's charm of manner and delight in all the amenities of life and of
social intercourse on its best side, he was to me a very attractive man, as well as one of
very great ability. Through his shyness he made all but his intimates regard him as dull. There
was in truth no dullness about him. His mind was one of great acuteness within its own very
special limits. Either by nature or training, I can hardly tell which, he was exactly fitted
to be what he was, that is, first a Second Wrangler at Cambridge, then a Conveyancer, and Standing
Counsel to the Post Office. Though he never took silk, he was in the most exact sense a counsel
learned in the law, and received the singular honour of being made a Bencher of Lincoln's Inn,
although he was not a Queen's Counsel. His special gift in the study and practice of the law
was his skilful draftsmanship whether in wills, conveyances, or clauses in Acts of Parliament.
His vast knowledge and his judgment as to what was the proper interpretation of the Statutes,
of the rules of Equity, of the principles of the Common Law, and of the practice of the Courts,
was unrivalled.

Mr. Simpson was, in private life, one of the most honourable and high- minded men that I have
ever known. Most honourable men are content to be careful of other people's rights and conscious
of their own duties in big things, but do not bother themselves to ask whether they have done
exactly right in little things. Mr. Simpson was as particular in the minutiae of conduct as
he was in great affairs. Take, for example, the way in which he regarded the duty of silence
in regard to any knowledge of clients' private affairs which he had derived in the course of
his professional work. He never yielded to the temptation to gossip, even about cases which
were thirty or forty years old, cases which it might have been argued had become historical.
This care extended not only to his own cases, but to matters which he had heard discussed in
his chambers in Lincoln's Inn or in those of his brother barristers.

You could not move him by saying that everybody was dead in the case concerned, or that it
would be to the credit of particular people to tell what really happened and what were the
true causes and motives of the action. Nothing of this kind would affect him. He gave for his
silence reasons similar to those which Dr. Lushington gave when, on his death-bed as a very
old man, his family asked him to leave for historical purposes a record of the truth about
Byron's quarrel with his wife. Dr. Lushington replied that even if he could do so without a
breach of faith with any living person, he would not. He had a higher duty, and that was to
help men and women to feel that they could unburden themselves fully to their professional
advisers, and that there was no risk of those advisers in the future constituting themselves
the judges of whether this or that thing should become known to the world at large.

What the client wants is the seal of the confessional. If he cannot have that, he will often
refuse to speak the whole truth. But this may mean not only personal injury to those who would
speak out if they could feel sure of secrecy, but might inflict injury on others, and indeed
on the community as a whole. There is, I feel, no rational denial of this point of view. At
any rate, this was the principle which Mr. Simpson carried out in the most meticulous way.
He would only talk about the law in the abstract or upon points made in open court. He would
not even go so far as to say, "I drew up that marriage settlement, or made that will, or advised
this or that man to take action."

He carried his reticence beyond even professional knowledge. For example, he regarded what
was said in a club smoking-room as said under the seal of secrecy, and nothing would induce
him to repeat what he had heard. Strangely enough, he was a member of the Garrick Club, and
I remember him once mentioning that Thackeray used to hold forth in the smoking-room to all
present. Naturally I thought that he would be willing to describe some of these talks, for
they had obviously made a great impression on him. He, however, was adamant in this matter.
When people talked in club-rooms, he argued, they ought to have the feeling that it was like
talking in their own house and to their own family. For him Clubs were "tiled" houses.

I think, myself, that he went too far here; but certainly he was erring on the right side.
At the present moment the habit of certain lawyers, doctors, and businessmen, to discuss the
private affairs of their clients and customers in public is much too common. No doubt most
of them are careful to use a good deal of camouflage and to tell their stories as "A" "B" cases,
without mentioning names. But that is not always successful. Chance and the impishness of coincidence
will very often enable one to discover the most carefully camouflaged secret. I remember, as
a young man, coming across an instance of this kind which very much struck me. It happened
that the barrister in whose chambers I was a pupil said, very properly, to me on the first
day that he supposed I understood that whatever I saw in papers in chambers must be regarded
as strictly confidential. It might, he said, happen that I should see things of a highly confidential
nature about someone whom I knew in Society; and he went on to tell a story of how, when he
was young, two young barristers or students came across a set of papers in which two young
ladies, sisters, who happened to be acquaintances of these young men, were mentioned as having
a reversionary interest in a very large sum of money with only one old life between it and
them. Though apparently only daughters of a struggling professional man, they would soon, it
appeared, be great heiresses. The result was two proposals and two marriages! Whether they
lived happily ever afterwards is not stated, but they lived, at any rate, "wealthily."

I did not condemn the principle as unsportsmanlike but I remember thinking that there must
be a million chances against a barrister ever seeing papers relating to someone he knows. Yet,
within two or three days, I was told to help in drafting a marriage settlement which dealt
with people at whose house I was going to dance on the very night in question. To my surprise
I found that my host and hostess were very rich people. Though I lived for nearly two years
in Mr. Simpson's house, and for the next fourteen years, that is, till his death, I saw him
constantly, I neither exchanged a bitter word with him, nor felt the slightest indignation
or annoyance at anything he did or said. He was at heart one of the kindliest as well as one
of the shyest and apparently most austere of men. Mathematics and law may have dried up his
intellect, but they never dried up his heart.

Though he was a man of fine intellect, and had a great and deep knowledge of many subjects,
I think I never saw a man who was so absolutely devoid of any interest in poetry or Belles-Lettres.
I believe indeed that he was quite without any understanding of what poetry meant. If I had
been told that he was the Wrangler who said that he could not see "what Paradise Lost proved,"
I should not have been the least surprised. And yet the style of his writing was often remarkable
for its perfect clarity and perfect avoidance of anything in the shape of ambiguity. He could
say what he wanted to say in the fewest number of words and in a way in which the most ingenious
person could not twist into meaning something which they were not intended to mean. He was
indeed a super-draftsman. But that is a gift which every man of letters who is worthy of his
salt ought to salute with reverence.

My treatment of many things in this book has been inadequate owing to want of space, but in
no case has it been so inadequate as that of London of the 'nineties. But my complaint here
is, of course, a complaint common to every biography.

Biographers, I am told, always write in this strain. They begin by declaring that they have
nothing to say and end by wailing over the insufficiency of the space allowed them.

CHAPTER XX

THE ETHICS OF JOURNALISM

When I became not only sole Proprietor of The Spectator but also Editor-in-Chief, Chief Leader-writer,
and Chief Reviewer, it was natural that I should confront myself with the problem of the position
and use of the journalist--in a word, that I should ask myself what I was doing. Should I accept
and be content with the ordinary outlook of the journalist on his profession, or should I in
any particular strike out a new line, or an extension of an old one for myself?

At that time, i.e. in 1898, the air was full of talk as to the functions and duties of the
journalist, for journalism was emerging from its period of veiled power and was beginning to
fill a much larger space in the public mind. But in my case this was not the whole of the opportunity.
By a singular set of circumstances I found myself in the unique position just described. Townsend
and Hutton, it is true, were joint Editors and joint Proprietors; but the sense of responsibility
of each to the other was a strong check. I, however, as sole Proprietor and sole Editor, could
do exactly what I liked. I could decide, without reference to anyone else, the policy to be
adopted. Further, as Chief Leader-writer, I was the man who had to carry out the policy adopted.
I had, that is, the function of making the decisions immediately operative. This is more important
in fact than it is in theory. In theory an Editor's word--subject to the Proprietor's veto--is
final. He gives his instructions to the leader-writer, and the leader-writer, presuming that
he is not a fool or a headstrong egoist or a man determined to flout his Editor's wishes, obeys
them. That is the theory. But there are several mitigating circumstances. In the first place,
it is often difficult for an Editor to make his policy quite clear to his staff. Next, the
leader-writer, no matter how strong his intention to obey his instructions and to enter into
the spirit of his chief, may fail to do so, from want of that complete clarity of mind that
comes only with personal conviction. If not his own view, his own understanding of the facts
is apt to get in the way and prevent him carrying out his duties exactly as his chief meant
him to perform them, and exactly as he himself wishes to perform them.

Again, by a sort of law of reversed effort, the leader-writer may be too anxious to carry out
his chief's wishes and so may distort the Editor's view. There is yet another way in which
a loss of power may occur. If the Editor had himself been writing, he would have seen as he
wrote that this or that particular line of policy that he had adopted was not tenable, and
therefore he would have altered that line. The conscientious leader-writer may, however, resist
this conversion by circumstantial argument. He may feel:

  This seems to me to be all wrong, but I have got to make the
   best of it. Otherwise I shall be taking the responsibility,
   which I do not want to take, of altering my Chief's instructions.
   He said, "Defend the Government's action," so
   defend it I must.

But the Editor himself may be in a similar position. If he has an active Proprietor who gives
regular and specific instructions, he is not really the Editor but only the Proprietor's mouthpiece.
In that case, he, too, can, as it were, avoid a great deal of the feeling of personal responsibility.
He may say,

  I do not like this view. But, after all, it is the matter for the
   Proprietor, and he may have good reasons for his decision.
   Anyway, I cannot in a matter of this kind attempt to dictate
   to him, because if a mistake is made, he will have to stand the
   racket. After all, I may be wrong as to the policy we should
   pursue, and if I am, then I shall be doing what I do not want to
   do, that is, gravely injuring somebody else's property and
   position. A man may make great sacrifices and run great risks
   with his own property, but I don't want to be told later that I
   was the man who insisted on taking his own line against the
   opinion of his chief with the result that a fatal blow was given
   to the position of the paper, I don't feel justified in risking
   another man's property.

The Editor, in fact, is very much in the position of the leader-writer.

These things being so, I realised that the responsibility for whatever was done in The Spectator
was going to be my responsibility in a very special degree. I could not plead consideration
for anyone else's need if I had to defend The Spectator's position. Therefore, I must be not
only specially careful as to what I did from day to day, but I must think out for myself an
answer to the journalistic interrogatory "Quo vadis?" What is the journalist's function in
the State, and how am I to carry it out? The formula for the discharge of the journalist's
functions, which I ultimately came to consider to be true in the abstract and capable of being
translated into action, was, curiously enough, the formula of a man whose judgment I profoundly
distrusted, whose work as a journalist I disliked, and who as a man was to me exceedingly unsympathetic.
It was that of Mr. Stead, the erratic Editor first of the Pall Mall and then of the Review
of Reviews. The journalist, he declared, was "the watch-dog of society." Stead, though a man
of honest intent and very great ability, was also a man of many failings, many ineptitudes,
many prejudices, and many injustices--witness the attitude he adopted in his last years towards
Lord Cromer. Further, there was an element of commonness in his mental attitude as in his style.
But with all this, he had a very considerable flair, not only in the matter of words, but in
ideas. Though the phrase was not used in his time, he was a pastmaster in the art of making
"slogans." This, of the watch-dogs in the case of the Press, was one of his best. It exactly
fitted the views which I was gradually developing in regard to the journalist's functions.
In the course of my twelve years' apprenticeship at The Spectator, The Economist, The Standard,
and the other journals for which I wrote, I made it my business to study the work of my colleagues.
I soon saw that the men who did the best and most useful work were the watch-dogs; the men
who gave warnings. But I also very soon found out that in practice the part is one which cannot
be played if the performer wants to have a pleasant time in the world, or to make himself generally
liked by his fellow-men. A watch-dog is never popular. How could he be? People do not like
to be disturbed, and to be warned generally means a loud noise and often a shock to delicate
nerves. Besides, it generally ends in asking people not to do something they are strongly tempted
to do. The bark of the watch-dog is, in a rough-and-ready way, much too much like the voice
of conscience to be agreeable to the natural man. Though sometime after he may be very grateful
to the watch-dog for his bark, when he first hears it he is inclined to say:

  Oh! drat that dog. I wish he'd shut up. There he is barking
   away, and it is probably only the moon, or some harmless
   tramp, or a footstep a mile away down the road, for the brute's
   power of hearing is phenomenal. Yet if he goes on like that I
   must pay some attention, or else there'll be an awful row with
   the Boss to-morrow morning if anything was stolen or any
   damage done. The creature's spoilt my night, anyway; I must
   get up and see what's going on.

The result is that the tired householder paddles about the house in carpet slippers, grumbling
about this folly of thinking that anyone could be so unjust or unfair as to attack a well-meaning
man like him. It would be an infamy to think of any such scheme. "I want my neighbours to trust
me, and they will never do that unless I trust them. So I will have another glass of port and
get to bed, and, if that infernal dog will allow me, go to sleep."

"All's Well" is always a more popular motto for life than "Beware!" It is not only the householder
who dislikes the watch-dog. There are people who have more sinister motives than a love of
peace for disliking the watch-dog. Those who like to have a night out occasionally without
comment from the Master; and those who think it only fair that certain perquisites should be
smuggled out of the house by the charwoman and others without any fuss, "cannot abide" the
dog and its horrid way of barking at a shawl thrown over a large plaited basket.

  Nobody [they argue] wants to see the master robbed, but
   there is a great difference between robbery and having things
   a little easy now and then, and no tiresome questions asked.
   If we are all to be deprived of our night's rest by that dog,
   there will be no end of trouble, and if it goes on much further
   we shall have to see about getting rid of him, or else changing
   him for a dog that is more reasonable.

But that is not the whole of the trouble. Not only is the watch-dog generally disliked, but
he is in danger of being turned from what he ought to be, into a gruff old grumbler. You cannot
go on perpetually barking out warnings without getting a hoarse note into your voice, and that
makes you compare very ill with the parlour dog and his charming manners, or with the sporting
dogs who go out and attend their masters at their pleasures. The working dogs, too, such as
those of the shepherd, are far more popular and far more picturesque.

Finally, the watch-dog is often misunderstood because he has got a very narrow gamut of notes.
His bark is taken as an angry warning, when all he means to say is: "This is a new man and
a new policy, and you had better look into it and see whether it is all right. I should not
be doing my duty if I did not warn you to look out." Then if the new-comer turns out to be
a harmless or useful person, the watch-dog is blamed because he did not recognise merit on
the instant.

But if acting as watch-dog is a disagreeable job, as it most undoubtedly is, it has its compensations.
Journalism of which the mainspring is the gaining of pleasure may easily degenerate into something
akin to the comic actor's function. Stevenson in a famous passage compared the writers of belles-lettres
to "filles de joie." That was not, I think, appropriate to the artists in words, but at any
rate it is a condition into which the journalist who knows nothing of the watch- dog's duties
can easily descend. Our danger is to fall into a kind of intellectual prostitution, and from
this the duty of barking keeps us free.

"But," it may be argued in reply, "why need you bark in such a loud and raucous way? Why need
you be so bitter?" Here comes a close and interesting issue. How is it possible to give a warning
in earnest without exposing one's self to the accusation of being bitter? I have again and
again tried, as a journalist, to consider this question, for it has often been my lot to be
accused of "intense personal bitterness." Yet in reality I have felt no such feeling. What
people have called bitterness has to me seemed only barking sufficiently loud to force attention.
I have often, indeed, had a great deal of admiration and sympathy for the men for whom I have
been supposed to entertain angry feelings. I have longed to say nice things about them, but
that, of course, is impossible when you are on a warning campaign. The journalist that does
that is lost. At once the friends of the person against whom the warning is issued complain
of your lack of character, of your want of stability, of your habit of turning round and facing
the other way. You cannot be a watch-dog only at stated hours, and on off days purr like the
family cat.

I will take a specific illustration of what I mean by the watch-dog function in journalism.
Throughout my life I have been a strong democratic Imperialist. To me the alliance of free
self-governing Dominions, which constitute the British Empire, has a sacred character. It has
rendered great help to the cause of peace, civilisation, and security, and it will render still
more. I feel, further, that throughout Africa, as throughout India, we have done an incomparable
service to humanity by our maintenance of just and stable government. Our record on the hideous
crime of slavery, even if it stood alone, would be a justification for the British Empire.
But it does not stand alone; there are hundreds of other grounds for saying that, if the British
Empire had not existed, it would have had to be invented in the interests of mankind. But though
I was always so ardent a supporter of the British Empire and of the Imperial spirit, I was
not one of those people who thought that the mere word "Imperialism" would cover a multitude
of misdeeds.

To come to close quarters with my illustration, I thought that the watch-dog had to do a good
deal of barking in the case of Mr. Rhodes's practical methods of expanding the British Empire.
They seemed to me so dangerous and so little consistent with a high sense of national honour
and good faith that I felt it was part of my job to protest against them with all my strength.
We were told, for example, by his friends, that Mr. Rhodes believed in the policy of the open
cheque-book. If you wanted a thing, you must pay for it, and he did. He went further than that:
his favourite maxim was said to be, "I never yet saw an opposition that I could not buy or
break." It appeared to me that here was an extremely dangerous man, and one against whom the
public ought to be warned, and as loudly as possible.

What first set me on his track was Rhodes's gift of £10,000 to Mr. Parnell for the funds of
the Irish Nationalists. The gift was made about the time when Mr. Rhodes wished to get his
Charter through the House of Commons. Of course, I know that Mr. Rhodes was accustomed to say
that the gift and the Charter had nothing to do with each other, and even that the dates would
not fit. It was, he declared, an unworthy suspicion to suggest that it had ever crossed his
mind that Parnellite criticism, then very loud in the House, could be lulled by a good subscription.
Besides, he was and always had been a whole-hearted Home Ruler. Mr. Rhodes, who bought policies
as other men buy pictures, made it a condition, of course, that the Nationalists should assure
him that they had no intention of leaving the Empire!

My view of the facts was different, and I believe it was the true view.

Mr. Rhodes wanted the Charter badly, and he did not much mind how he got it. He did not, of
course, want the Charter in order to make himself rich. He wanted to extend the Empire in South
Africa on particular lines, and these included a Chartered Province under his personal guidance.
To accomplish this he was perfectly willing to take the help of bitter enemies of the Empire
and of England, like Mr. Parnell; men who wanted to give our Empire the blow at the heart.
Worse than that, he was willing to give them the pecuniary help they needed in their effort
to destroy England, and to risk the consequences. That was surely a case for the watch-dog.
"Look at what the man in the fur-lined Imperial cloak has got under it."

To my mind what was even worse than the Parnellite subscription was the way in which the Chartered
Company was run and the way in which its shares at par were showered on "useful" politicians
at home and in South Africa. The Liberal party at Westminster professed to be anti- Imperialist
and pro-Boer. Yet I noted to my disgust that Mr. Rhodes not only called himself a Liberal,
but that quite a number of "earnest Liberals" were commercially interested in the Charter.

In this context I may recall a phrase used by a witness before a Parliamentary Committee at
Capetown, which made inquiries as to the distribution of "shares at par" when the selling price
of Chartered stock was very high. The witness was asked on what system certain authorised but
unallotted shares were distributed at par. They were, he stated, given to journalists and other
persons "who had to be satisfied on this Charter." I am not by nature a suspicious person,
but, rightly or wrongly, that appeared to me to be a short cut to ruining the Empire. Though
personally I knew nothing about Rhodes, and was inclined to like an adventurous, pushful spirit,
it was clear to me that, holding the views I did as to the functions of the journalist, I had
no choice but to bark my loudest. My Imperialist friends were for the most part horribly shocked
at what they called my gross and unjust personal prejudices against a great man. Some of them,
indeed, asked me how I could reconcile my alleged Unionist and anti-separatist views with opposition
to the great Empire-builder. When I told them that it was just because I was an Imperialist,
and did not want to see the Empire destroyed, that I opposed Rhodes, pointed out to them that
he was an arch corrupter, and insisted that corruption destroyed, not made, Empires, I was
told that I did not know what I was talking about. I was a foolish idealist who did not understand
practical politics. Such self- righteous subtleties must be ignored in the conduct of great
affairs.

This talk, instead of putting me off, made me feel it was absolutely necessary, however disagreeable,
to pursue my policy. In this view I soon had the good fortune to obtain the support and encouragement
of Lord Cromer. Here, by the admission of all men, was the greatest of living Imperialists.
Yet I found that he was in full sympathy with my determination to let the British public know
what was going on.

As I have said, I felt very deeply about the gift to the Nationalists. Later, I heard that
Mr. Rhodes had not only bought off, or tried to buy off, Irish opposition, but that he had
actually offered and given a considerable sum of money to the funds of the Liberal Party in
order to get them to change their policy in regard to Egypt. The great part of the Liberal
leaders and the party generally considered that we were pledged to leave Egypt. This did not
suit Mr. Rhodes, with his curious shilling-Atlas and round-ruler point of view about a Cape
to Cairo Railway. What would happen if, when the railway was completed to the Egyptian frontier,
the platelayers found either a hostile Egypt or a foreign power in possession, and determined
to prevent a junction of the rails? Mr. Rhodes regarded such a possibility as intolerable,
and, after his manner, determined to buy out the opposition to his great hobby. Accordingly,
he approached Mr. Schnadhorst, the Boss of the Liberal Party, and told him that he, Rhodes,
was a good sound Liberal, and wanted to give £10,000 to the Liberal funds, which were then
much depleted--owing to the secession several years previously of Lord Hartington and Mr. Chamberlain.
But the gift was conditional. Mr. Rhodes did not see his way to present the money unless he
could have an assurance from Mr. Gladstone himself that the Liberal party would not, if they
came into power, evacuate Egypt. In a word, he proposed to buy a non-evacuation policy, and
offered a good price for it. Mr. Schnadhorst wanted £10,000 for his party, and wanted it badly.
Accordingly he wrote a letter to Mr. Rhodes, assuring him that the party would not evacuate
Egypt. The letter would not do for Mr. Rhodes. He wanted a categorical pledge from Mr. Gladstone.
This he only obtained indirectly, and ultimately I believe that only about £5,000 was paid.

But though for several years I heard rumours of a large subscription by Mr. Rhodes to the Liberal
funds, they were vague. Chance, however, enabled me to prove what I felt was probably the truth.
It happened that Mr. Boyd, one of Mr. Rhodes's private secretaries, sent a letter to The Spectator
about Rhodesia, in which he made a clear allusion to the subscription to the Liberal funds.
I at once noted this admission and insisted that the matter should now be cleared up. The Liberal
leaders ought, I declared, to say frankly whether any subscription had ever been accepted from
Mr. Rhodes.

Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, as leader of the Liberal Party, wrote an indignant letter to
The Spectator, declaring that the statement was a lie. He added that he was authorised by Sir
William Harcourt to say that he joined in the denial and so in the accusation of falsehood
against Mr. Rhodes's secretary. I then called on Mr. Rhodes in justice to himself to make good,
if he could, the allegations of his private secretary.

Then the whole strange story came out. Mr. Rhodes wrote to say that the correspondence with
Mr. Schnadhorst was at the Cape, but that he had cabled for it, and that when it came he would
send it to The Spectator and let the British people judge whether the story was or was not
a lie. When the letters arrived they showed that Mr. Rhodes had actually proposed to buy the
policy he wanted, as he might have bought a shirt or a suit-case, and that the famous Liberal
Manager was quite willing to do business--especially as it was pretty obvious that the evacuation
of Egypt was no longer popular with a considerable section of Liberals.

I was, naturally, well satisfied with the result of the warnings which I had given in regard
to Mr. Rhodes. I had brought about an exposure of his methods, and had also exposed the carelessness
and recklessness which allowed the agents of the Liberal Party to make a secret deal with a
man like Mr. Rhodes, and a deal in which the consideration was a large sum of money. And all
the time a number of the conventional Liberals were denouncing Mr. Rhodes for his shoddy Imperialism!
The attitude of the public at large in regard to my action was curious. The politicians on
my own side evidently thought that I had pushed things too far, and had been indiscreet. Some
of them naively asked, in effect, where should I be if something unpleasant were to come out
about the past of my own leaders. When I suggested that I should have to do exactly what I
had done in the case of the Liberals, they were very much shocked at my "disloyalty to my party."

The Liberals, on the other hand, though the vast majority of them, leaders and led, had known
nothing whatever of the transaction, and were in truth greatly ashamed of it, instead of being
angry with their chief Party Manager, were violently angry with me. They declared that I was
showing a most vindictive spirit towards a great and good man like Mr. Gladstone. I had "entered
into a conspiracy with Mr. Rhodes in regard to the publication of a private correspondence."
When I pointed out that, as a matter of fact, I disliked Mr. Rhodes's methods quite as much
as they did, and held that it was as bad to buy a policy as to sell one, they inconsequently
murmured that I had dealt a deadly blow against the sanctity of public life by helping Rhodes
to break faith, and that my conduct was unforgivable.

I may end my story by a description of an interview which I had in regard to this matter with
Mr. Rhodes at his hotel in Mayfair. It was the only occasion on which I saw or spoke to him.
His private secretary, Mr. Boyd, came to me and said that Mr. Rhodes was very anxious to hand
over to me in person the letters between himself and the Liberal Manager. Would I therefore
mind going to see Mr. Rhodes, and letting him tell me the whole story in his own words? I did
not feel in a particularly kindly frame of mind towards Mr. Rhodes, and I knew and thoroughly
disliked his ways with the Press. Further, I did not want to run any risk of Mr. Rhodes hinting
later that I had tried to blackmail him, or that he had made a suggestion as to interesting
me later in the Chartered Company which had been apparently welcomed by me, and so on and so
on. I therefore expressed my opinion that there was no need whatever for a personal interview.
Mr. Boyd thereupon made a strong plea ad misericordiam. Mr. Rhodes was, he said, exceedingly
ill and was worrying himself greatly about the matter. He had not long to live, and I should
be playing a very inhuman part if I did not grant the interview to a very sick man. Melted
by Boyd's evident sincerity and anxiety I agreed, but only on the condition that if Mr. Rhodes
had anyone present at the interview, I also must have a friend present. That I felt was rather
an insulting condition, and I rather expected that Mr. Rhodes would have replied: "If Mr. Strachey
cannot treat me like a gentleman, I don't want to see him." Instead, a most polite message
came back from Mr. Rhodes, saying that he gladly agreed to my suggestion and that he would
see me quite alone. Why Mr. Rhodes was so insistent as to an interview I cannot tell, unless
it was that he had been rather worried about The Spectator's hostility to him, and he thought
he might be able to mollify me in the course of a private talk. I remember Mr. Boyd told me
how he had heard Rhodes often express great trouble and surprise at my attitude towards him.
Why should a journalist whom he had never seen be so hostile? What could have induced him to
take the line he took in The Spectator? "I have never been able to make him out," was how he
summed up the position. That struck me as very characteristic. It had evidently never occurred
to Rhodes that a journalist could act on the watch-dog principle. The way his mind appeared
to work was something like this.

  Strachey and The Spectator are avowedly Imperialists and
   strong anti-Little Englanders. Therefore they ought to be on
   my side. If they are not with me, it can only be that they are
   standing out for some reason or other. What is it? It isn't
   money. If they had wanted to be "satisfied on this Charter"
   they would have made it clear to me. It can't be pride or
   prejudice. You can't wound or injure a man you have never
   seen. As far as I know, Strachey has not been got at by any
   of my personal enemies. He hates Kruger and his party even
   more than he does me. It's a most disagreeable and distracting
   puzzle.

That, I am told, was the way the great man argued till his entourage called the spectacle of
the puzzled pro-consul deeply pathetic. Rhodes was, I believe, genuinely "haunted" by the problem
which he could not solve. I and The Spectator got on his nerves. But perhaps if he saw me he
could get the solution he desired. He had squared Boers and Governors and high British Officials,
and Generals and Zulu Chiefs, and missionaries, and miners, and Jewish diamond-dealers by talk
and nothing more. Why not this journalist? He would try. He would worry his secretaries to
within an inch of their lives till they got the Editor to see him.

Touched, as I have said, by the appeal about the anguish of the dying lion, I yielded, went
to his hotel, and was ushered in by Boyd. I did not feel the charm which was supposed to flow
from Rhodes. To begin with, I thought him an ugly-looking fellow. The "late Roman Emperor"
profile was a very flattering suggestion. Instead, his appearance explained a quaint and Early
Victorian saying which had greatly tickled me when it fell from Lord Cromer's lips. "I saw
him once in Cairo. I didn't like him. He seemed to me a great snob." Rhodes ought to have had
the manners and mental habits of a gentleman, but apparently these had suffered a good deal
of dilution in the diamond-fields. His address was distinctly oily, and I remember thinking
what a mistake he had made in his conception of the stage directions for the short dialogue
scene which he had insisted on his entourage producing.--"Empire- Builder, generous, human,
alert, expansive, and full-blooded. Publicist, dry, thin-lipped, pedantic, opinionative, hard."
That was what he, no doubt, expected of the cast. In a word, his attempt to fascinate lacked
polish. It was clumsy, almost to the point of innocence, and opportunist to the point of weakness.
He did not know how to take me, and was obviously "fishing."

I was determined to seize the opportunity of telling Mr. Rhodes fairly and squarely what I
thought of him and his policy. I therefore received his elephantine flatteries and civilities
with a grim silence, and then told him I should like him to know what had made me oppose him,
and would continue to make me do so. I was an Imperialist, I pointed out, and I regarded him
as an enemy to the cause of my country. He had given payments of money to the Irish enemies
of Britain and the Empire, and that I could never forgive. "The Parnellites were engaged in
a plot to ruin the British Empire. You knew it, and yet you helped them. You gave them the
means to arm and fortify their conspirators and assassins." Mr. Rhodes appeared put out by
this frontal attack--no doubt an unpleasant one, and so intended. He began by making elaborate
explanations, and by declaring "the dates won't fit," but his arguments were muddled and incoherent.
"I assure you you are doing me wrong about the Irish policy. I know it is not an intentional
injustice, but indeed you are wrong. I am sure I could convince you of this if there was only
time."

Though I was not mollified I felt there was no more to be said. Mr. Rhodes was not going to
convince me nor I to convert him. Accordingly, I got up and moved to the door. On this Mr.
Rhodes said, very flatteringly, by way of goodbye, that he was greatly pleased that "these
letters," as they were obliged to be published, should appear in The Spectator. His device
was pathetically obvious. He knew, or believed he knew, that the journalist's passion was "copy,"
and he wanted to remind me that he had supplied me with one of the very best political "stories"
ever put before an Editor.

I was comparatively a young man then, only a little over forty, and I was disgusted at what
I felt was an impertinent attempt to "land" me. I instantly pulled the papers out of my pocket
and flung them on to the table, saying,

  You are entirely mistaken if you think I want your letters for
   The Spectator. As far as I am concerned, they may just as
   well appear in The Times or any other paper. All I want is
   publicity. I have been accused by Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman
   of publishing lies, and that I do not mean to endure.
   I make no claim, however, on behalf of The Spectator. Choose
   your own paper.

Here Mr. Rhodes showed an excellent command of himself. He urged me strongly, nay, he implored
me to take the papers. No other course would be fair to his secretary, who had been called
a liar. "As poor Boyd was unjustly accused of lying, in The Spectator, I am sure you will agree
that it is only fair that his good faith should be vindicated in the same place." To this plea
I could, of course, offer no opposition. I therefore replaced the papers in my pocket, said
"good morning," and walked away.

I suppose many people, certainly Mr. Rhodes's admirers, will say that I was brutal and unjust.
If they do, I think I have a good defence, but I am not going to set it forth here. More interesting
is the general opinion I formed of Rhodes after seeing him in the flesh, and experiencing what
was supposed to be his special gift--that of talking a man round.

Rhodes, I had to acknowledge, was not the kind of magnificent man that I had sometimes envisaged
him. I think he was a lucky man rather than a man of genius. The chief trouble with him was
that he really believed that all men were buyable. He was a kind of throw-back to the eighteenth
century, just as the eighteenth-century politicians were to the age of Juvenal and Tacitus.
He took their records seriously and acted on their views of humanity. If he chose to use his
money for buying policies as other people used theirs to buy places, why not? What else, granted
that he was the kind of man described, could Rhodes do with his money?

But these excuses, though I admitted them, made me not less but more eager to oppose Mr. Rhodes
and the influences he employed. My duty was to expose Mr. Rhodes, i.e. to get people to understand
his methods. These almost entirely depended upon secrecy, and that made publicity my best weapon.
When once the Rhodesian moral strategy was made public, the game was up.

I believe I did some good by my double warning. In the first place, I warned the British public
that Rhodes, if not watched, would secretly buy policies behind their backs and that the party
machine, when in want of money, would with equal secrecy sell them. And I proved my point,
incredible as it may seem.

"But why rake up an old scandal?" asks Urbanus with an ironic smile. Because the warning ought
to be a standing warning. I am by no means sure that when all the secrets are known, we, or
rather our grandchildren, will not find that Mr. Rhodes has had imitators, in recent times.

I could, of course, mention other examples of the way in which this particular watch-dog gave
trouble, and got himself heartily disliked, but the one I have given will serve. Besides, the
other examples touch living people, and with living people I want to have as little to do as
possible in these memoirs.

CHAPTER XXI

THE PLACE OF THE JOURNALIST IN MODERN LIFE

The watch-dog's function by no means exhausts the work of the journalist. There remains that
strange function which is not yet quite realised or understood in a modern community, the function
of publicity. Publicity is, in one sense, the method or instrument by which the watch- dog
gives its warning: it is his bark. But there is something more in publicity than this. Publicity
is an end as well as a means. There are positive and distinct virtues inherent in publicity
quite apart from the fact that it is the medium through which the journalist works. This fact
is beginning to be realised more and more in this country. In America, it has long been recognised.
There, indeed, publicity may be said to have been crowned. It is considered one of the pillars
of society, and so in truth it is.

I can best illustrate what I mean by this, by telling a story of Delane, the editor of The
Times when The Times was at its greatest. It is one which should never be forgotten by the
critics of journalism and journalists. Someone had been taking Delane to task over an incident
connected with his newspaper, and Delane replied: "You appear to forget that my business is
publicity." If the public would not forget this essential fact in regard to newspapers they
would attain to a much clearer and juster understanding of the problems of the Press. We must
always remember that the journalist's business is publicity. At first the plain man may be
inclined to say that Delane's words have nothing to do with the matter, or, rather, he may
feel inclined to reply in the spirit of Talleyrand's answer to the man who said he had to live--
"I do not see the necessity." A very little reflection, however, will show the necessity of
publicity, will show, I mean, that publicity has a real and very important function in the
State, and that it is literally true that the modern world could not live and progress without
the newspaper. The newspaper is indispensable to progress, and to progress in the right direction.
Unless we know, day by day, what people are doing, in our nation, in our country, in our town,
in our village, we should be like men wandering about in the dark, and we should find it far
more difficult than we do now to obtain the co-operation of others for good and worthy objects.
We should fail also to get that encouragement, moral, intellectual, and social, which is obtained
by knowing that others are thinking the same thoughts and entertaining the same aspirations
that we are. It is good to know of the righteous work which is being done by others. It is
even good to know, within reasonable limits, the evil that is being done under the sun, in
order that we may lay our plans and bring up our forces to check that evil. Without that daily
report on the world's doings, which is the modern newspaper, we should for the most part be
blind and deaf, and if not dumb, at any rate hardly able to speak above a whisper.

This view may at first sight seem the presumptuous claim of a journalist for his trade. Let
any of my hearers, however, try to imagine a newspaperless world and he will soon realise that
I am not exaggerating. It is not merely a desire for amusement that makes the leaders of men
in a besieged town, or even in so narrow a field as an Arctic expedition, encourage the foundation
of a newspaper. They want it as a means of illumination quite as much as of entertainment.

People sometimes talk of men's instinctive desire for news, but, like many other instincts,
this one is founded on convenience and the law of self-preservation. Readers of Stevenson's
Kidnapped will remember how, after the Appin murder, the fugitives on the heather obeyed, even
at very great risk to themselves, the sacred duty of the Highlands to "pass the news." In savage
countries and in troubled times a man is looked upon as a wild beast rather than a human being
if he does not pass the news. Asian travellers dwell upon the way in which the Bedouins observe
the duty of passing the news, and described how, if a solitary Arab is encountered, the news
is, as a matter of course, passed to him. The seclusion of women even yields to this imperative
law of the desert, and an Arab man and an Arab woman may be seen with their horses, tail to
tail, and so themselves back to back also, giving and receiving the news over their shoulders.

I am tempted to give a modern example of the advantage of news in the purest sense. Some years
ago, in the course of one of those brave attempts which have been made to cleanse the Augean
stable of municipal politics in San Francisco, the editor of the chief newspaper engaged in
the campaign of purity was kidnapped in the streets of San Francisco. He was hurried off in
a motorcar and placed under restraint in a train at a suburban station, from which he was to
be carried to a place some 500 miles away. It happened, however, that a reporter caught sight
of the editor's face in the reserved portion of the Pullman car where he was imprisoned, and
telegraphed to a San Francisco evening paper that the well-known Mr. So-and-So was "on the
---- train, going North." The reporter had not the slightest notion of the romantic circumstances
of the kidnapping and thought he was merely telegraphing an item of social news. One of the
editor's colleagues in the campaign against corruption happened, however, to see this item
in the evening paper and at once realised what it meant. He instantly telephoned to the proper
authorities at a town halfway between San Francisco and the kidnappers' destination; the train
was stopped, and the kidnapped man brought before a judge on a warrant of Habeas Corpus, and
promptly released. No doubt mere publicity can occasionally serve the evildoers equally well,
but here, at any rate, is an instance of its utility which may be regarded as proof of the
advantage of collecting and transmitting news even of the most unimportant, or apparently unimportant,
kind.

Though I hold that publicity is a function of very real utility to the State, it must not be
supposed that I think it can be practised without limitations, or that I do not realise that
it has dangers both great and many. It has been said that honesty is not as easy as Blind Man's
Buff. The same thing may well be said of publicity. The first and most obvious limitation of
publicity is that publicity should only be given to truth and not to error. Here, however,
we must not forget that there are certain forms of error which can only be exposed and got
rid of by publicity, and, again, that it is often only possible to find out what is truth and
what error by submitting the alleged facts to the test of publicity. What at first seems an
incredible rumour turns out to be literally true, and therefore a failure to report it would
actually have been a suppression of the truth. The more one studies this question of publicity
the more it appears that what is wanted in the public interest is a just and clear understanding
of the way in which publicity is to be achieved. The journalist's business is publicity, but
it is also his business to see that this duty of publicity, though carried out to the full,
is carried out in a way which shall do not harm but good. If the methods of publicity are sound,
fearless, and without guile, all is well. If they have not these qualities, then publicity
may become the most dishonourable and degrading of all trades.

It must not be supposed, however, that by saying this I am trying to give a defence of the
Yellow Press. I fully realise its evils, only I desire that the Yellow Press should be condemned
for its faults, and not merely for its virtues when carried to excess. What the Yellow Press
should be condemned for is its tendency to that supreme evil-- indifference to veracity of
statement. Another of its extreme evils, an evil made possible by publicity, is that of triviality.
It debauches the public mind, in my opinion, much more by its triviality than by its vulgarity
or grossness. Sensationalism and want of reticence will in the end cure themselves, but triviality
is a defect which grows by what it feeds on. People get a habit of reading silly details about
silly people, and the habit becomes an actual craze; they can no more do without it than they
can rest without chewing gum. This triviality is indeed twice cursed. It degrades both him
who reads and him who writes. As to the public, indeed, I sometimes feel inclined to say with
Ben Jonson in his famous Ode:

  If they love lees and leave the lusty wine,
   Envy them not their palates with the swine.

But it is a pitiful sight to see unfortunate men who might do better work, condemned to filling
the trough with insipid and unsavoury swill collected from the refuse-pails of the town.

Twenty years ago, I had a conversation in regard to this point with the reporters of two very
Yellow newspapers, on an Atlantic liner outside the port of New York. The Lucania had run upon
a sand-bank, and we had to wait all day in sight of that towered city, exposed to the full
fury of the interviewer. When I ventured to ask the two reporters in question whether they
did not think it was perfectly absurd and ridiculous to print the chronicles of small beer,
or, rather, of small slops, such as appeared in their columns, they readily, and I believe
perfectly honestly, agreed, but said in defence that they had to obey their editor's orders.
To me, at any rate, they acted most honourably and gave no report of our conversation, for
I had reminded them that dog did not eat dog. A third reporter, however, to whom I had not
thought it necessary to indicate as "private and confidential" an enthusiastic remark drawn
by the beauty of New York harbour in an autumn sunset, was not so sensitive. "This is more
splendid," I said, "than even the approach to Venice. There is nothing in the whole world like
the sea- front of New York seen from the sea." This reporter honoured me next day with a headline
of such magnificent triviality that I cannot refrain from quoting it: "Editor Strachey says
New York skins Venice!"--a contribution to the illimitable inane worthy to stand by a headline
in an English provincial paper: "Vestryman choked by a whelk!"

Publicity, when it is honest publicity, is as important a thing as the collection and presentation
of evidence at a trial. Without the evidence, of what avail would be advocacy or judgment?
I have dealt with the problem of publicity, but publicity of course is not the whole of journalism.
Besides news there is comment, and comment, at any rate among serious-minded people like the
British, is quite as well thought of as news. It is with that part of journalism, indeed, that
the editor of a weekly newspaper has most to do. The journalism of comment may be divided into
parts, both perfectly legitimate. There is what I may term judicial journalism, and the journalism
of advocacy. In judicial journalism the writer attempts to approach the jury of the public
rather as a judge than as a barrister, to sum up rather than make a speech for the prosecution
or the defence. This does not, of course, mean that he does not in the end take a side or give
a decision. He forms a view and states it, but in stating it he admits the existence of the
other side and does not try to carry the jury away with him by the arts of rhetoric. Such journalism
is not necessarily cold-blooded. Just as a judge may denounce baseness or misconduct in burning
words, so the journalist who endeavours to maintain the judicial attitude may, when the necessity
arises, be strong in his denunciation of what he holds to be weak, dangerous, or evil. He,
however, who is bold enough to essay this form of journalism must never forget that a judge
who professes to be judicial in tone, but who ends in being partial, is a worse man than an
honest advocate, because he is, in fact, cloaking partisanship by hypocrisy.

Little need be said in defence of the advocate journalist. He makes no pretence to be doing
anything but pleading the cause of his party, and placing it in the best possible light. It
is not his business, but that of the opposition writer, to put the case for the other side,
and if he occasionally pretends to an enthusiasm which does not really belong to him, he is
only practising the innocent artifice of the counsel who tells the jury that he will be an
unhappy man should he have failed in the task of persuading them to restore his long-suffering,
if burglarious, bibulous, or bigamous, client to his best wife and family.

It must not be supposed, however, that the advocate journalist is a cynic who realises that
his own cause is a poor one, but calls it the best of causes because he is paid so to do. That,
as all men of experience know, is a fallacy as regards the barrister, and it is still more
a fallacy as regards the journalist. We should remember the story of the barrister who, at
the end of a long career, declared that he had been singularly fortunate. He had never been
called upon to defend a guilty person or to argue a case where the merits and the law were
not strongly on his side. If this feeling grows up in the case of a man who, changing from
prosecution to defence and from plaintiff to defendant, may often have to alter his point of
view completely, how much more is it likely to grow up in that of the advocate journalist who
is always on the same side? Believe me, the notion of the political journalist perpetually
writing leaders against his own convictions is a pure figment of the popular imagination. No
doubt an editor will sometimes ask a leader-writer not to put a particular view so strongly
as he, the leader-writer, is known to feel it, but such reticence cannot surely be regarded
as insincerity on the ethics of anonymity in journalism. The public are apt to suppose that
anonymity is the cloak of all sorts of misdoings, and I have often heard people declare that
in their opinion every leader-writer should be forced to sign his name. As I once heard it
picturesquely expressed, "The mask should be torn from the villain's face. Why should a man
be allowed to stab his neighbour in the dark!" As a matter of fact, I am convinced that anonymity
makes, not for irresponsibility but for responsibility, and that there are many men who, though
truculent, offensive, and personal when they write with the "I," will show a true sense of
moderation and responsibility when they use the editorial "we." The man who writes for a newspaper
very soon gets a strong sense of what is right and proper to be said in that particular organ,
and he instinctively refuses to give way to personal feeling and personal animosity when he
is writing, not in his own name, but in that of his newspaper.

  I have hated and distrusted So-and-So ever since I was at
   Cambridge with him. I know what a false-hearted creature
   he was then, and how vain and supercilious, and I should like
   to get my knife into him some day. I feel, however, that the
   Daily Comet could not possibly attack him in this way. Even
   though my editor has told me that I may say what I like about
   him it would not be fair to go for him unless I signed my name.

That is an imaginary soliloquy which, I am sure, represents the feelings of plenty of leader-writers
when confronted with a personal issue.

Again, men who write anonymously, and in the name of their paper and not of themselves, are
much less likely to yield to the foolish vanity of self-assertion. When Zola visited England,
I remember a very striking passage in which he expressed to an interviewer his astonishment
at the anonymity of the British Press. He wondered how it was that our writers refused themselves
the "delicious notoriety" which they might obtain through signed articles. Thank heaven, our
writers prefer the dignity which can be maintained through the honourable tradition of a great
journal to such "delicious notoriety" The delicious notoriety of the individual is the ruin
of the better journalism.

Again, we must never forget that the signed article, however true and sound it may be, is always
to some extent discounted through the personality of the writer. "A" may have written in perfect
sincerity of a particular statesman, but if he signs his name the gossip-mongers are sure to
say that the article in question is to be accounted for by the fact that a fortnight before
the writer was stopping with the Cabinet Minister who has been well spoken of, or because the
writer's wife is well known to be a friend of the statesman, or for some equally trivial reason.
Just as a good chairman of a committee should sink his individuality and speak for the committee
as a whole, so a good leader- writer can with perfect honesty and sincerity sink his individuality
and speak for his newspaper rather than himself.

But, though I incline to anonymity as the rule of political journalism, I quite admit that
in pure literature and in the arts the signed article is often to be preferred. For the object
with which the reader approaches a literary article is the desire for pleasure, and that pleasure
is naturally heightened by knowing the name of the actor who is on the stage. Though it might
be an amusing trick it would be on the whole very disappointing to the public if the play-bill
on which the names of the characters appear had instead of the actors' names arbitrary letters,
like X, Y, and Z. They would probably not appreciate the task of guessing who was concealed
under the wig or the shadows painted on the face which converted Miss Jones' somewhat aquiline
features into a nez retroussé. No one can doubt that the Parisian public liked to know that
the Causeries de Lundi were by Sainte- Beuve, just as they now like to see the signature of
Mr. J. C. Squire at the end of an article. To push the point to extremes, who would care to
grope through a nameless Georgian Anthology in which each poem had to be taken on its intrinsic
merits? Even if the public could stand the test, I feel certain that the critics could not.
I have always had a good deal of sympathy for the dramatic critic in Mr. Shaw's play when he
declares that he can place a play with perfect certainty if he knows whom it was written by,
but not unless. Fancy the poor critic going through a volume and saying to himself: "Now is
this Shanks or is it Graves trying to score off him by a parody? Again, is this one of the
Sitwells writing like Sassoon in order to drive the grocers to delirium?" But, harrowing thought,
perhaps it is neither, but only some admirer of the Georgian Mind at Capetown or Melbourne,
who has produced for his own use an amalgam of several styles. The mere writing about it is
making me so uncomfortable that I must hastily desist!

There is another point upon which I must touch, though very shortly. That is the ethics of
newspaper proprietorship. People sometimes talk as if it were a great misfortune that the newspapers
of England are, as a rule, owned by rich men. I cannot agree, though I do think it is a great
misfortune that a newspaper cannot be started by a poor man. My reason for desiring that as
a rule a newspaper proprietor should be rich is the danger of newspapers being bought, or,
at any rate, of their articles being bought, as too often happens in countries where newspapers
are not great properties. It is often said, for example, that a hundred pounds or so will procure
the insertion of an article in most continental newspapers. This is no doubt a gross libel
on the best foreign newspapers, but it indicates a danger when newspapers are owned by men
of small means and make small profits. When a newspaper is bringing in £50,000 or £60,000 a
year it is obvious that even if we assume the newspaper proprietor to have no sense of public
duty, it will not be worth his while to sell the influence of his paper. He is not going to
risk the destruction of a great property--destruction would surely ensue from his corrupt act
becoming known--for a few hundred pounds. To put it brutally, "his figure" would be too high
for any to pay--a quarter of a million at least.

But though it makes for soundness that newspaper proprietors should be personally independent,
it is also most important that they should be men whose wealth is derived from their newspapers
and not from other sources. A great newspaper in the hands of a man who does not look to make
a profit but owns it for external reasons is a source of danger. Strange as it may seem at
first sight, the desire for direct and legitimate profit in a newspaper is an antiseptic and
prevents corruption. One does not want to see a newspaper proprietor, with his ear to the ground,
always thinking of his audience, but the desire to stand well with his readers is often a power
in the direction of good. The proprietor who endeavours to be the honest servant of his readers
will not go very far wrong. When I say honest servant I mean the man who plays the part of
the servant who, though he will do his master's bidding when that bidding is not positively
immoral, at the same time is prepared to warn that master, courteously but firmly, against
rash or base actions. There is nothing corrupt in such honest service, when rendered either
to a man or a nation, or even to a Party.

To put it in another way, there are worse things than studying public opinion and endeavouring
partly to interpret it honestly and partly to guide it in the right direction.

I will end this chapter by asking the readers of a Journalist's Memoirs to do two things. Firstly,
to think better of journalists and their morals than they are at first sight inclined to do.
Secondly, not to exaggerate the influence and power of the Press. No doubt it has some great
powers, but those powers are much more limited than is popularly supposed. Remember that by
using exaggerated language in regard to the power of the Press, people increase the evil which
they desire to diminish. Dr. Johnson said very truly that no man was ever written down except
by himself. Believe me, this is as true now as when Dr. Johnson said it. I do not believe in
the power of the Press either to crush a good man and a great man, or to exalt a weak man or
a base man. No doubt a conspiracy of journalists might conceivably keep back a wise statesman
or public man for a year or two, and, again, might for a time advertise into undue prominence
an inferior man. In the end, however, matters right themselves. The public have a very sound
instinct in persons as well as in things, and when they recognise real worth in a man they
will know how to prevent the newspaper from doing him wrong, supposing him for some reason
to have incurred the enmity of the whole Press--not an easy thing to accomplish. If the Dictator
makes a dead set against Smith, the Detractor is pretty sure to find good in him, and may even
run him as a whole-souled patriot! We are a contradictious trade.

Don't be afraid of the Press, but do it justice and keep it in its place, that is, the place
of a useful servant, but not of a master.

This is the last word on the Press of a working journalist, one who, though he holds no high-falutin'
illusions as to his profession, is at the same time intensely proud of that profession, and
who believes that, taken as a whole, there is no calling more worthy of being practised by
an honourable man, and one who wishes to serve his country.

CHAPTER XXII

A WAR EPISODE-MY AMERICAN TEA-PARTIES

The war is too near, too great, and also too much an object from which people turn in weariness
and impatience to be dealt with by me, except very lightly. In spite then of the transcendent
effect which the war had upon my life I shall only touch upon one or two salient points. The
first that I select is as curious as it was interesting. It is also appropriate, for it marked
a step, and a distinct step, if one which covered only a small space, towards the goal that
I have always put before me. That goal is a good understanding between both branches of the
English-speaking race. It involves above all things that Americans shall never be treated,
either in thought, in deed, or in word, as foreigners. When the war had been going a week or
two, I and a number of other editors were summoned to a solemn conclave presided over by a
Minister of the Crown. We were asked to give advice as to how the Government should deal with
the American correspondents. Owing to the increasing severity of the censorship they were unable
to get any news through to their newspapers. Though they were quite friendly and reasonable
in one sense about this, they were in a state of agitation because their editors and proprietors
on the other side, unable as yet to understand what modern war meant, and to envisage its conditions,
were cabling them imperative messages to send something, and something of interest, to the
American public which was suffering from a news- hunger such as had never before existed in
the world's history. If the correspondents could not get anything to send they must make room
for those who could. The notion that the order for news could not be obeyed was regarded as
"impossible."

But the Government, though anxious to do everything they could for the American correspondents,
was itself in the grip of the censorship. The Prime Minister's speeches, even, were censored
lest they should afford information to the enemy. This policy of intensive suppression was
enforced by all sorts of gloomy prophecies from Naval and Military chiefs:

  If you allow things to be sent out before they have been
   carefully considered, and that means long considered, we cannot
   be responsible for the consequences. Things which look
   perfectly innocent to you or to the people who send them, when
   read by the keen-eyed men in the German Intelligence Office
   may give them all sorts of hints as to what are our doings and
   intentions. By pleasing one American newspaper you may
   send thousands of men to their doom by sea or land.

That being the tone of the Censor's Office, the Government was naturally in a state of perplexity.
At the same time they felt, and rightly felt, that it was most undesirable to confront our
American friends of the Press (for they were all friendly) with a pure non possumus. What made
it worse was the fact that the correspondents had told Ministers in plain terms that if they
could get no news here they must pack their portmanteaus and go to Holland and thence to Berlin,
where correspondents were made much of and allowed to send any amount of wireless.

Many plans were suggested at the meeting, but those which found favour with the Press made
the representatives of the Government shiver with horror, while the official suggestions, on
the other hand, were, I am afraid, greeted with polite derision by the journalists. Greatly
daring, I proposed that we should do for the American correspondents what was done for them
in their own country by the President. President Wilson met the correspondents at Washington
every Monday for a confidential talk of twenty minutes or so. What he said and they said was
not to be reported, but they were "put wise" as to the general situation. I suggested that
in a similar way Mr. Asquith might give a quarter of an hour once a week to the American correspondents.
He would not, of course, be able to give them anything to publish, but at any rate if they
saw him they would not feel so utterly out of it as they were at the moment. To see no one
but a Censor who always said No, was like living on an iceberg on a diet of toast-and-water.
They would be able at least to cable to their chiefs saying that they had seen the Prime Minister
and had heard from him the general outline of the situation, though they could not at present
publish any of the confidences which had been entrusted to them. Anyone who knows anything
about the relations between the Government and the Press at the beginning of the war will be
amazed at my daring, or shall I say "impudence"?--though by no means astonished to hear of
the response with which it met. The spokesmen of the Government said in effect: "Mr. Strachey,
you must be mad to make any such suggestion. It cannot be entertained for a moment. You must
think of something better than that." Unfortunately I could think of nothing better, the other
journalists could think of nothing better, the officials could think of nothing better, and
so the meeting, as the reporters say, broke up, if not in confusion, at any rate in depression.

I was so much alarmed by the notion of the correspondents leaving the country, and also sympathised
so strongly with my American colleagues that I felt that I must do something on my own. I therefore
went straight back to Brooks' and wrote to Mr. Asquith, telling him what the situation was,
what I had proposed, and how I was regarded as quite crazy. I went on to say that I knew this
would not affect his mind, but that I was afraid that he would probably not be able to spare
the time for a weekly interview, and that I therefore suggested a compromise.

  Will you [I said] come and lunch with me next Wednesday
   at my house at 14 Queen Anne's Gate to meet all the American
   correspondents, and so at any rate give them one talk? As it
   happens I don't know any of the American correspondents,
   even by name. All the same, I am quite certain that if you
   show them this mark of your confidence you will never regret
   it. There is not the slightest fear of any betrayal. I am,
   indeed, perfectly willing to guarantee, from my knowledge of
   the honour of my own profession, that not a single word that
   you say but do not want published will ever be published.

In a word, I guaranteed not merely the honour but the discretion of my colleagues from across
the water. I am not a political admirer of Mr. Asquith, and have had, perhaps, to pummel him
with words as much as any man in the country. I was not, however, the least surprised to find
that he would not allow himself to be overborne by the suggestion of his subordinates that
the scheme was mad and so forth. Very characteristically he wrote me a short note with his
own hand, simply saying that he would be delighted to meet my friends at lunch on Wednesday
next as proposed. This acquiescence relieved me greatly, for I was convinced that the situation
was exceedingly dangerous and disagreeable.

My next step, and one that I had to take immediately, was to get my guests together. As I have
said, I knew nothing of them and for a moment thought it not improbable that even if I did
manage to get hold of their names and addresses they might when they received the letter think
it was a hoax. However, the thing had to be done, so it was no use to waste time by foreseeing
difficulties. My first step was to get the help of my friend, Sir Harry Brittain (then Mr.
Brittain). I wrote to him, asking for the names and addresses of all the correspondents of
American newspapers in London, for I had reason--I forget exactly why--to believe that he possessed
the information I so greatly needed. The messenger whom I had despatched with my note brought
back a prompt answer conveying the information I required. I immediately sat down, dictated
my notes, about twenty I think, and had them posted. In these I described the situation quite
frankly. I said that as a journalist I had been very much struck and also very much worried
by the thought of the situation in which the correspondents had been placed. They were, I said,
like men in a house in which all the lights had gone out, and that house not their own. In
such circumstances, who could wonder if they knocked over half the furniture in trying to find
their way about or to get hold of a light somewhere. I ventured further to propose, though
not known to them, that they should give me the pleasure of their company at luncheon on the
following Wednesday, at 14 Queen Anne's Gate, to meet the Prime Minister, in order that they
might, by means of a talk with him, get a general outline of the situation.

I knew, of course, that it was not necessary to put my colleagues formally on their honour
not to publish anything without definite leave so to do. The first principle upon which an
American correspondent acts is that, though he expects frankness from the people he talks to,
nothing will ever induce him to reveal what he has been told is confidential and not for publication.
You can no more get stuff not meant for publication from an American correspondent than you
can get the secrets of the confessional from a priest. Reticence is a point of honour. I have
no doubt that some of my American journalistic friends will say that there is no great merit
in this, because the correspondents know quite well that if they were once to betray a public
man they would never have a chance to do it again. Their professional careers would be utterly
ruined. Though I should not agree that self- preservation was the motive, I knew at any rate
that every consideration of sound business and professional pride as well as of honour made
it quite certain that there would be no betrayal.

I was, therefore, most anxious not to appear ignorant of this fact or to seem to doubt my guests.
Accordingly I merely added that whatever was said was not for publication and also that I was
anxious that the fact of this luncheon taking place should not be disclosed. I gave my reason.
If the luncheon, and if any other meetings which I hoped to arrange, became known about by
the representatives of Foreign newspapers, I felt that pressure might be put upon me to include
them in my invitations. The result would be a small public meeting, and not an intimate social
function such as I desired. My wishes were respected in every way. No word said at the luncheon,
or at any of the weekly gatherings that followed it for nearly three years, was ever made public.
Further, their existence was never alluded to, though the meetings would have made excellent
copy, quite apart from anything that was said at them. The secret was religiously kept.

I was deeply touched by the letters which I received in reply to my invitation. They were all
from men then unknown to me, though I am glad and proud to say that many of them were from
men who have since become intimate friends. They were written with that frankness, genuineness,
and warmth of feeling which are characteristics of the American, and contrast so strongly with
the stuttering efforts of the Briton to be genial and forthcoming.

Owing to the fact that we had moved to our house in the country in the last days of July, 1914,
my London house was shut up except for a caretaker, and my wife could not bring up servants
for the occasion or give me her help, which would have been invaluable, because she was tremendously
busy with Red Cross organisation and getting our house ready for what it was so soon to become,
i.e. a hospital with forty beds. I had, therefore, to do the necessary catering myself. I felt
that, considering the need for discretion, my best plan would be to go to so old-fashioned
an English house as Gunter's. The very name seemed stable and untouched by the possibility
of spies.

Accordingly I told Gunter's representative to make arrangements for a luncheon for twenty people
and to be sure that all the waiters were Englishmen and, if possible, old service men. That
accomplished, I awaited the hour. I do not think I was anxious as to how my party would go
off. I was much too busy for that. I was at the time deep in work that I considered appropriate
to the Sheriff of the County of Surrey, which office I then held. On the Tuesday before the
luncheon I was sleeping at Queen Anne's Gate, but went as usual to The Spectator office in
the morning, transacted my business, and got back half-an-hour before "zero," which was 1.30,
so that I might arrange the places of my guests, a task in which I was helped by Sir Eric Drummond,
then Mr. Asquith's Private Secretary. Unfortunately I have not a record of all the people who
were there, but I know that among them was Mr. Edward Price Bell of the Chicago Daily News,
known throughout the newspaper world of London as the doyen of American correspondents. He
is a man for whom respect is felt in this country in proportion to the great number of years
which he has devoted not only to the service of his newspaper but to improving the relations
between this country and his own. Mr. Price Bell is the most patriotic of Americans, but he
has never hesitated to make it clear that the word "foreign" does not apply to the relations
between Great Britain and America.

Mr. Roy Martin, now the General Manager of that wonderful institution, The Associated Press
of America, and his colleague and successor now head of the London office, Mr. Collins; Mr.
Keen of The United Press and Mr. Edward Marshall of The New York Times were certainly there.
Another of the men present with whom I was in the future to become intimate was Mr. Curtis
Brown, the well-known and very able Literary Agent and the representative of the New York Press.
It was, indeed, at his suggestion that these Memoirs, which have proved the pleasantest literary
task ever undertaken by me, were begun and were placed in the hands of Messrs. Hodder & Stoughton
in England and of Major Putnam in the United States. Mr. Fred Grundy, Mr. Patchin, Mr. Tewson,
and Mr. Tuohy were also among my "first-nighters."

These men became the stalwarts of my regular parties, but there were also a number of other
good friends and men of interest and ability, such as Mr. Palmer, who occupied journalistic
posts here for a short time only, and then were moved either to the front or to some other
part of Europe or back to their own country.

The luncheon proved a great success. From the first moment I realised that there was to be
no coldness or official reticence or shyness, but a perfectly easy atmosphere. Mr. Asquith
made himself exceedingly agreeable to my guests, and they did the same, not only to him, but
to each other, to Mr. Asquith's staff, and to me, their host. Needless to say that as my object
was to introduce the journalists to Mr. Asquith and get him to talk to them and they to him,
I placed myself as far away from him as I could, though I was still able, if the conversation
flagged (which, by the way, it never did) to put in a question or to raise some point about
which I knew there was a general desire to get information. Wisely, as I think, I would have
no speechmaking. After luncheon we retired into my library for our coffee and cigars, and I
was then able to take each one of my guests up to Mr. Asquith for a few minutes' talk. The
result was excellent. Mr. Asquith was very frank, but, though light in hand, he was as serious
as the occasion demanded. I felt that the general result was that my guests felt that they
were receiving the consideration they ought to receive, which I knew the Government desired
that they should receive, but which they had very nearly missed, thanks to the fact that Governments
so often find it impossible to do what they ought to do, and, indeed, want to do. Official
efforts at politeness, instead of being the soft answers which turn away wrath, too often prove
violent irritants.

So great was the success of the luncheon that when it was over and Mr. Asquith had to leave
for a Cabinet Committee (he remained for over two hours in the house--not a bad compliment
to the correspondents in itself, when one remembers that the date was early September, 1914),
I made the following proposal to my guests. I told them what a pleasure it would be to me if
we made an arrangement to meet at 14 Queen Anne's Gate every Wednesday afternoon till further
notice, for tea and cigarettes. We were all busy, but we must all have tea somewhere, and why
not in a place close to the Houses of Parliament, the Foreign Office, Downing Street, and the
War Office? I went on to say that though I could not promise a Prime Minister once a week,
I would undertake to get one of his colleagues or else some distinguished general or admiral
whose conversation about the war would be worth hearing, to ornament my Conversazione. The
proposal was met with the charming ease and good sense with which every suggestion that I made
to my guests was received, and it was arranged that we should begin in the following week.

Oddly enough, I cannot now remember who was my next guest of honour, but I do remember that
in the course of that year I twice got Sir Edward Grey, and that on one occasion he spent over
two hours, from 4.30, that is, until nearly 6.30, over my tea-cups. Other Cabinet Ministers
were equally obliging, and if I remember rightly, among the number were included two Lord Chancellors,
Lord Haldane, and Lord Buckmaster. Mr. Balfour and Mr. McKenna were also visitors, as was Earl
Grey--the cousin of Sir Edward Grey. Lord Roberts was to have come, but Death intervened to
prevent his visit.

Lest the diet should be monotonous, I also got distinguished people like the Archbishop of
Canterbury, the Bishop of London, Admiral Sir Cyprian Bridge, Admiral Sir Reginald Custance,
General Ian Hamilton, and Admiral Sir Reginald Hall, at that time the head of the Intelligence
Department at the Admiralty. There was also Sir Maurice Hankey, the Belgian Minister, the American
Ambassador, Mr. Page, and Colonel House, whom I was lucky enough to catch on one of his flying
visits. Last, but not least, I had the two Censors, Sir Edward Cook and Sir Frank Swettenham.
It was as if The Thunderer and Mercury had descended to play with mere mortals. My two naval
experts, Admiral Cyprian Bridge and Admiral Custance, were among the most constant supporters
of my Conversaziones. They proved very popular with the correspondents.

I know that the lions I provided for my arena in Queen Anne's Gate were quite genuine when
they told me how much they had liked meeting the able and keenly-interested young men who formed
the bulk of the correspondents.

I suppose I ought not to flatter my own tea-parties, but I am bound to say that I don't think
I ever listened to better talk than the talk I heard on those occasions. I specially remember
a conversation which took place when Lord Buckmaster became Chief Censor, shortly before he
was made Chancellor. Naturally enough, the correspondents were inclined to be critical, though
friendly, and he, though equally friendly, was sternly determined to defend the policy which
his office was pursuing. Curiously enough, our dialectic on that occasion seemed to have made
as strong an impression upon others as upon myself. I found, later, one of the most distinguished
of news experts of his own or any other country, Mr. Roy Martin, of the Associated Press of
America, in a little tract which he wrote about the censorship when America entered the war,
spoke of my parties and the talk with Lord Buckmaster in terms which showed that he had been
impressed. The tract in question was entitled "Newspaper Men should direct the Censorship."
The following is the passage to which I am referring:

  On the day when Lord Buckmaster became Lord High
   Chancellor I met him at the hospitable home of St. Loe
   Strachey, of The Spectator, the best friend American newspaper
   men have had during this war, in London, and told him that
   newspaper men had probably been a more constant nuisance to
   him than to any man in Great Britain. With characteristic
   suavity he assured me that he had only the pleasantest recollection
   of all his relations with the press. An American
   probably would have admitted a part of the indictment. We
   do not produce that type of urbanity in this country; like the
   colour on the walls of St. Paul's and the Abbey, it comes only
   with centuries.

  But all the dreadful lapses of the British censorship and all
   its inequalities can be avoided by the United States. The
   mistakes which required months to correct are signposts for us.
   Its printed rules reveal its slow growth. Our censorship can
   develop equal efficiency in a month, if it notes the charted
   pitfalls in Whitehall.

I think my tea-parties would have run to the end of the war if it had not been that my health
temporarily gave way. Owing to my illness I had to be a great deal away from London, and in
any case was not equal to the extra strain they imposed. If I remember rightly, the last meeting
was held at The Spectator office, for 14 Queen Anne's Gate was let at the time, i.e. in April
or May, 1917.

I hope I shall not be thought indiscreet if I take note of an incident which occurred in the
last six months of the Strachey teas, for it marked the extreme kindness, consideration, and
true-hearted friendship shown me by my guests. For some reason, I daresay a good one, though
I have forgotten it, the Foreign Office suddenly took it into their heads that they might improve
upon my tea-parties by making them more official. Accordingly they asked me whether I should
mind handing over the conduct of them to a gentleman whom they named. He had lived, they pointed
out, for over twenty years in the United States and was therefore likely to be a better host
than I was. Indeed, it was suggested, of course most politely and considerately, that on general
grounds he would be more acceptable to the correspondents than I should be and would understand
them better.

We were at war, and we did not in those days waste time upon compliments, but spoke our minds
freely--and quite rightly. I was not in the least hurt. Though I loved the parties, which had
given me such good friends and such good talk, I was very busy, and indeed very much overworked,
and was in a sense relieved at the idea of getting a couple of hours of much needed leisure
in the week. Accordingly, it was arranged that I should retire gracefully and recommend my
official successor to my American friends in a short speech. This I did with perfect good-will.
But the Foreign Office, though they did not reckon without their host, had reckoned without
his guests. When the concrete proposal (well-meant, I am sure) was made in all its glorious
naïveté in a little speech by the new host, it was received with something like annoyance--a
fact which worried me not a little, for I had, rather unwisely perhaps, assured my official
mentors that there would be no objection.

Things, however, went further than the grim silence with which the initial proposal was met
at what was designed to be "the positively last appearance of Mr. Strachey." After a few days
I heard that three or four of the correspondents, representing the whole body (with their usual
tact they had kept this from me), had gone to one of the officials at the Foreign Office and
told him plainly that if the scheme was not abandoned and I was not continued as host, they
would none of them put in an appearance at the weekly gatherings. The result was that the official
scheme was abandoned and that my Conversaziones continued as before.

Many people may think this action somewhat strange. I do not think so. Noting that I had only
spent three weeks in America, it was most natural that the officials concerned should consider
that I must be ignorant of American minds and ways and that my ignorance might be liable to
become offensive. But this view, to borrow Gibbon's immortal phrase, "though probable is certainly
false." It is logical, no doubt, but it is not consistent with the inconsistency of human nature.

I ought, perhaps, at the same time to record that earlier in the war, when, owing to the amount
of work I had on hand, I offered to retire from the office of host and let it be carried on
by others, I was sternly rebuked by the Prime Minister's Private Secretary, and told peremptorily
that it was my duty to go on exactly as before--a mandate which I naturally regarded as a compliment
as well as an order.

The incident was indeed a pleasant one, and I have reason to believe that what I did was regarded
with satisfaction and with gratitude by the Prime Minister and his colleagues in the Cabinet.
In any case, the whole episode was characteristically English. I suggested it myself, I carried
it out myself, and though my little organisation had no regular official sanction or recognition,
it was regarded as I have just recorded as war- work from which I could not retire, without
leave. It was valued as a useful method of keeping touch between the men who were directing
the war and the journalists of America. Without frightening anyone by making official inquiries,
it was easy to find out the temper of the men who kept America informed. Those concerned had
only to drop in at the next Strachey tea and sound the correspondents.

Is it to be wondered at, then, that I am intensely proud of what I was able to do? and proud
in three capacities: as a man who wanted to help his country during the war, as a working journalist
who wanted to help his colleagues, and last, but not least, as one whose life's object has
been to improve the relations between this country and America.

To this account of my tea-parties I will further add as a postscript some proofs of what was
the opinion of the correspondents as to these gatherings.

I had plenty of kind words from my American journalist friends, but as, I am thankful to say,
they are almost all living, I shall obey my rule and not quote their letters or my recollections
of their words. One of them, Mr. Needham, who, alas! died in an aeroplane accident in the spring
of 1915, wrote me a letter not long before he died, from which I may quote the following. The
letter was written from Paris, and is dated 11th April, 1915.

  The thing I miss most, now that I am away from England,
   is your charming tea every Wednesday afternoon. I know of
   nothing to compare with it, and I find myself wishing that I
   could drop in, have a good time, and incidentally pick up some
   really useful knowledge, which one can't so easily do, you know.

Having said so much, I think I must quote the next sentence, because it involved a question
which was often discussed in the spring of 1915 at the tea-parties. That was a rather plain-spoken
article which I had written in The Spectator in regard to President Wilson's policy of neutrality
on a moral issue. I spoke frankly, and my words were not unnaturally resented by those of Mr.
Wilson's friends who were personal admirers and supporters of the President.

  I want to tell you, also, that privately speaking with my
   finger to my lips, I quite approve of your article on Wilson.
   You will find it hard, at least over here, to find anyone to disagree
   with you, except, of course, on American top-soil,
   namely, an American Embassy or Legation.

I may add another proof that the correspondents met my efforts to help them and also do them
the honour they deserved for the magnificent work they did individually and collectively in
preventing the growth of ill- feeling, or, at any rate, misunderstanding, between what I may
call their and our two nations.

On November 4th, 1914, my friends gave me a dinner at Claridge's Hotel, which was, I can say
without flattery, the easiest, the most pleasant, the most natural, the least strained function
of the kind in which I have ever taken part. Here is the list of my hosts--as representative
a body both for men and newspapers as any journalist could desire to entertain him:

Edward Bell        Chicago Daily News
 Sam Blythe         Saturday Evening Post
 Curtis Brown       New York Press
 John T. Burke      New York Herald
 R. M. Collins      Associated Press
 Herbert Corey      Associated Newspapers
 Fred Grundy        New York Sun
 Edward Keen        United Press
 Ernest Marshall    New York Times
 Roy Martin         Associated Press
 H. B. Needham      Collier's Weekly
 Frederick Palmer   Everybody's
 Philip Patchin     New York Tribune
 Fred Pitney        New York Tribune
 J. Spurgeon        New York World
 W. Orton Tewson    New York American
 J. M. Tuohy        New York World

The dinner was as good as the company, and that is saying a great deal. I shall record the
Menu, to show that in 1914 the cooks of London were still bravely ignoring the ugly fact that
we were at war.

  MENU

  Oyster Cocktail à la Strachey

  Lobster-Newburg
   Chicken à la Maryland

  Selle d'Agneau

  Haricots Verts
   Pommes Anna

  Bécassine Fine Champagne

  Aubergine

  Bombe à la Censor

  Friandises

  Cheese Savoury à la "Spectator"

  Corbeilles de Fruits

  Café--Liqueurs

The speeches I remember well. Those about me were much too flattering, but I liked them none
the less for that. I am sure they were sincere. Certainly mine was. I had started out on the
hard track of duty to my profession and my country, and behold, it had turned into the Primrose
Path of pleasure! I expected to deal with a body of severe strangers and I found myself with
a band of brothers--men to whom you could entrust your secrets in the spirit in which you entrust
a bank with your money.

CHAPTER XXIII

IDYLLS OF THE WAR

People are getting tired of military controversies, and if they were not, I should be precluded
from dealing with them by the fact that I intend to avoid as far as possible matters which
concern living men, unless these are non-contentious. Horas non numero nisi serenas. Again,
and even if it were desirable to add fresh fuel to the controversial fire, I could not, speaking
generally, add to knowledge without violating confidence.

Nevertheless I cannot treat the war as if it had never existed, or as if it had no influence
on my life. It had, of course, a profound influence, and that I am bound to display in an autobiography
of the kind I am writing.

This influence, however, must be gathered indirectly rather than directly. All I propose to
do at present is to touch the war on two points. First, I want to give one or two examples
of what I may call "War Idylls"--recollections which were of so picturesque and poignant a
character that they made a fast impression on my mind. Later, I must say something of the adventure
of living continuously for four and a half years in a hospital. There I learnt great and useful
lessons about my countrymen and countrywomen and confirmed from direct knowledge what had been
but guesses or intuitive visions.

My Idylls of the conflict are partly objective and partly subjective. In my visits to the front
and in such war-work as I did at home, I witnessed many striking and even entertaining things,
and I saw them at moments of mental concentration and exaltation which no doubt heightened
them and sometimes made them assume an interest and importance not altogether their own.

The first visit to the front undertaken by me began on the 8th of May, 1915, that memorable
day on which was received the news of the sinking of the Lusitania.

I shall not give any account of my feelings when hearing for the first time a great cannonade,
or seeing shells burst, or catching a glimpse of the German line. Of all such things none were
or could afford an experience so terrible as the sight I saw at Bailleul. A number of men still
in the agonies of gas-poisoning, men hovering between life and death, lay on their stretchers
in rows in the vestibule of the Hospital, awaiting removal. They spoke in strange, lifeless
voices, like men recalled from death by some potent spell. But on this unnecessary horror of
war I do not mean to dwell. I shall, however, quote from my War Diary an account of a visit
to the Scherpenberg, because it gives a glimpse of a side of war too often neglected or ignored.

May 19th, 1915:--From the hospital we went to one of the most wonderful places in the theatre
of war, a place of which I had heard a great deal, but not a word too much, from my guide.
This was the Scherpenberg. Directly overlooking the plain in which Ypres stands are two hills,
Scherpenberg and Kemmel. Kemmel is constantly being pounded by artillery fire of all sorts,
but Scherpenberg, for some strange or at any rate unknown reason, is never shelled, and the
windmill on the top of it is still going merrily. As I sat on the grass of the hill-top, with
the men working at the mill behind us and a nightingale singing in the little hazel brake on
our left, it was very difficult to believe that one was looking not only at the scene of recent
battle, but at the scene of a battle proceeding at that very moment. The Germans were engaged
in a fierce counter-stroke on the North-Eastern front of the Ypres salient. The only indication
was the bursting of a good deal of shrapnel at this point. It was here that I first saw shrapnel
shells and noticed the little white puffs of smoke, which for all the world looked like the
steam let off by an ordinary locomotive. Behind us, or rather, on the right of Scherpenberg
hill, there was a big British gun which was firing steadily on the German trenches. The rush
of the shell made a distinctly cheerful sound. My companion told me that the sound was anything
but cheerful when the direction was reversed and the shell, instead of going from you, was
coming towards you. Then the noise was converted into a melancholy moan. While the German and
British shrapnel was bursting on the trenches to the North-East of us, there was noticeable
a good deal of dark cloud round Ypres, due, as we learnt afterwards, to some buildings having
been set on fire during the German attack that morning. With glasses one could see quite clearly
the tower of the Cloth Hall, which had not apparently been at all injured. The towers of the
Cathedral were also quite plain, but owing to the roof having been blown off, it was very difficult
to realise that they belonged to the same building and were not independent towers. The wood
to the South-East of Ypres was very clearly seen. This is the wood, as far as I can make out,
which R---- had on several occasions told me was a dreadful place, filled with unburied bodies,
pitted with shell-holes and with half the trees broken by explosions and ready to fall. None
of this, however, could be seen from a distance. As one looked from the windmill, Poperinghe
with its prominent church spire was to the left and it was quite impossible to discern anything
abnormal in its appearance. It looked even then like an ordinary prosperous Flemish town. In
the foreground, that is between the Scherpenberg and Ypres, lay what everyone calls "Dickybush"
and Voormezeele, or as the soldiers would say, Vermicelli. There were plenty of people moving
up and down the road, which ran straight from the base of the Scherpenberg into Ypres, passing
through "Dickybush." The ground all round was being tilled quite as assiduously as if there
had been no war. In fact, close to us the only difference the war made was that there were
a great many Tommies, either alone or in small parties, going backwards and forwards on the
road, just as one sees them at manoeuvres. They appeared to be perfectly at home, quite cheerful,
and on the best of good terms with the inhabitants.

Just below the hill, or, rather, half-way down, is a very pleasant- looking small farm, or
big peasant's house. As I had not yet talked to a Belgian peasant I felt I must make the picture
complete by doing so. We therefore went to the house and made an excuse for talking to the
people. Several women came out and all more or less talked volubly--but unfortunately in Flemish.
Soon, however, a typical farmer's daughter of about sixteen or seventeen came out and fired
off a great deal of very bad French and English intermixed with Flemish. She was a pleasant-
looking, fat girl, with beady black eyes. She told us that she had been living in Ypres up
till a fortnight before. I suppose as a servant or possibly in a shop. It seems that at first
she found nothing disagreeable in the bombardment, but of late things had got so hot that she
determined to leave. Indeed, although she looked the picture of health and good spirits, she
told us that towards the end she had felt rather nervous. She had been near too many bursting
shells and burning houses and seen too many people killed. In fact, as the Tommies would say,
she could not stick it any longer. I asked her how she had got away. The answer was simple.
She had merely walked down the road to Poperinghe and then, "fetching a compass" like St. Paul,
had got into "Dickybush" and so home. "A very long walk?" I queried. At this she giggled, and
added that "les soldats Anglais sont si gentils." She had had a good many lifts in motor-cars
on the road. I did not doubt it. She was just the kind of girl, perfectly straight and of good
intent I am sure, who, whether in peace or war, would get lifts from any British soldier engaged
in driving anything, from a motor-car to a gun.

As we finished our conversation with the group of women I looked in at the window with the
innocent idea of seeing what the furnishings of a Flemish farmhouse were like. There, to my
amazement, I saw two prim and perfectly well-behaved Tommies sitting at a table and just beginning
to have tea, or, rather, coffee. It was the modern version of those seventeenth century Flemish
pictures which one sees in most Museums, where a brutal and licentious soldiery are in possession
of some wretched Belgian yeoman's house. The Tommies were, of course, going to pay liberally
for their coffee and were evidently behaving with the pink of propriety.

From the farm we walked down the road half-way into "Dickybush" and then, turning to the right,
took a field-path up a little hill to get one last view of Ypres under its canopy of mist and
smoke, pierced by the towers of the Cloth Hall and the Cathedral. The little field-path was
of the kind which one sees everywhere on the Continent, a path somehow quite different from
the English field-path. At the end of it stood a typical Belgian peasant, for we were over
the border. I asked him a question, but he shook his head, for he could only talk Flemish,
and muttered something about "les Allemands," making the usual sign for throat cutting. It
was curious to see that this was not done in the conventional, theatrical way, but with a grim
stoicism which was not unimpressive. He was not in any kind of panic and was working hard in
his fields. He meant merely to convey in gesture some expression like "those damned cutthroats
of Germans." I left the Scherpenberg Hill with great regret. It was a wonderful "specular mount."
As one stood by the side of the windmill and gazed over the battle-ground, one seemed to get
war in its true perspective, something not quite as horrible or sensational as one gathers
from special correspondents at the front, and yet something full of a deadly earnestness, intensity,
and most impressive fatefulness. Though one forgot it at moments, there was always present
to one's mind "the rough edge of battle" of which Milton spoke, out yonder in the trenches.
The battlefield seen from a distance and in a position of complete safety is like going over
a hospital and seeing the flowers in the wards, the perfect sanitary arrangements and the general
air of orderly comfort, and ignoring the operating-theatre with all its grim tragedies. In
a battle of this kind the first-line trench is the operating theatre, hidden away from the
people who have no business in it.

As a pendant to what I saw from the Scherpenberg while heavy fighting was going on in the salient,
I may set forth how, a year later (that is, in August, 1916), I and a friend climbed the steep
path of yellow sand which leads to the top of "Le Mont des Cats," a sister summit. From this
isolated sandhill, one sees the whole plain of Flanders laid out like a green map at one's
feet. But on this occasion, instead of seeing, as I had seen from the Scherpenberg, the pomp
and circumstance of war, the view on that particular August afternoon from the Mont des Cats
was apparently one of perfect peace.

The opposing armies lay quiet in their trenches. Only the boom of an occasional gun which the
foe or the British were firing (cheerfully rather than sullenly) and now and then the noise
of an "Archie" warning a Taube to "keep off the grass" in the vault of Heaven, destroyed the
illusion of profound rest and reminded one that the wide world was at war. Otherwise the pacific
fallacy was for the moment complete. In the sober sunlight of the late summer afternoon the
whole earth seemed lapped in happy slumber.

Yet two hours after, and at the actual sunset, so quick are the changes at the front, the present
writer, by that time off the hill and in the plain below, saw the heavens gloriously alive
with the pageantry of conflict. The vault was pitted with woolly tufts of shrapnel and beautiful
dead-whitesmoke-wreaths from the phosphorescent bombs. These spread their sinuous toils high
and low and seemed to fill the skies. On both sides the aerial combatants were going home to
roost, exchanging challenges by the way. And all the time, hidden in a hundred woods and brakes,
the Archies sang in chorus. These evening voluntaries, including the winding-up of a good many
aerial sausages, were competing with the last rays of the glorious indolent, setting sun, and
were made complete and appropriate by a good deal of "field music" from the big guns. But even
this, though it was a reminder of war, seemed to those who watched rather part of the setting
of a dramatic fantasia of the sky than a real cannonade. It was one of the most wonderful pageants
of the sky that human eyes ever beheld. Even Staff Officers stopped their cars and got out
to look. A series of accidents: a gorgeous sunset, a clear sky, great visibility, all combined
to make the empyrean into an operatic "set" which Wagner might have envied but could never
have imitated.

In November, 1915, I also paid a visit to the front. I had some exciting moments, but here
again I want to give, not war reminiscences which will seem very small beer to half the population
of the United Kingdom, but merely to describe an incident which combined the picturesque and
the entertaining.

I was taken by my son-in-law, Captain Williams Ellis, and a life-long friend, Lord Ruthven,
then the Master of Ruthven, and chief Staff Officer of the Guards Division, into the first
trench-line opposite the Aubers Ridge, and incidentally to view some of the worst and wettest
trenches on the whole front, at the moment held in part by my son-in- law's regiment, the Welsh
Guards. My guides naturally took me up a communication-trench, named "Fleet Street," where
one was always up to one's knees in water and sometimes over them. They brought me back, however,
by Drury Lane, which was a somewhat drier street, also appropriate to The Spectator. Here again
I will quote from my Diary:

When we emerged from the end of the Drury Lane communication-trench upon the Route de Tilleloi,
we proceeded down that excellent road, discoursing on a hundred war topics. Suddenly, however,
we came upon a strange spectacle,--a row of men with their backs to the trench-line, walking
with extreme slowness and seriousness, in the most strict alignment, both as regards their
front and the distances between them, across a piece of muddy pasture. The sun was just about
to set, but the light was good and we could see in this row of intent backs that there was
a subaltern in the middle and about eight or nine men on each side of him. In solemn silence
they went on their way. I was just beginning to think within myself how very worthy it was
of the said subaltern to take out a section of his platoon and practise them in some particular
type of advance in open order, when, looking more closely at the line of backs, I noticed that
the men on the extreme right and left were carrying something slung over their shoulders. I
then saw that these somethings were hares. The young devil of a subaltern, quite contrary to
orders and at the risk of courtmartial, was indulging in a hare drive under shell-fire! His
men, of course, were greatly delighted in the adventure. The whole proceeding was marked by
that seriousness which Americans say is only shown by Britons when engaged in some form of
sport. Light-heartedness is good enough for the trenches, but not to be thought of when on
a predatory sporting expedition. Fortunately for my conductor, the subaltern and his party
did not belong to his Division, and so he was able to turn a blind eye. My heart warmed to
the young wretch, but the authorities are perfectly right to be very stern in such matters.
All shooting is forbidden by the French law, and of course a French proprietor feels it a horrible
outrage that while he is not allowed to shoot, some young English officer prances over his
ground and bags his hares. That is more than flesh-and-blood can stand, and one is glad to
think that it is being stamped upon. Still, when all is said and done, I wouldn't have missed
the sight of shooting hares under shell- fire for anything in the world. It is correct to say
that the drive was conducted under shell-fire, but no one must suppose that shells were exploding
at everybody's feet. All the same, only a little time before a shell did drop the other side
of the shooting party, and a very little time afterwards we saw one explode to the right, about
two hundred yards from where we were. In fact, the general position was not unlike that described
by Mr. Jorrocks: the shooters were having all the pleasures and excitements of war with only
one per cent. of the risks.

After a very pleasant visit to General French at his headquarters at St. Omar, the visit ended
with a touch of excitement.

On the morning of my departure, we received news that a hospital ship had been sunk in the
Channel. At 10.30, I finished my talk with Sir John, got into a motor and drove to Boulogne.
Having been told that all the mines had been swept up and that everything was perfectly right,
I was to have started by the 12.15 boat, that is the boat which started an hour after the doomed
hospital ship. We were all told, however, that we were not to cross by the said 12.15, or leave-boat,
but must wait for the P. & O. mail-boat. I rather kicked at this, but as all sorts of generals
and big wigs were placed under the same condemnation I saw it was useless to protest, and went
and had lunch. I can only presume they had already had wireless news of the sinking of the
hospital ship and also of the steam collier, and wanted to be sure that there were no more
mines about. Accordingly we did not sail till 3.45, no one in the ship, of course, knowing
anything about the disaster. I only heard of it coming up in the train to London, and then
the news characteristically came--not from a general with whom I was travelling--but from a
subaltern who had somehow picked up the news on the Folkestone quay.... It was curious to reflect
that if anyone had offered me the opportunity of going on a hospital ship as one of the sights,
I should have closed with it unhesitatingly. Luckily for me, however, I had not come across
any R. A. M. C. people, and therefore am still in a position to sign my name to these notes.
I managed to get to Brooks's for some late supper at 9.30. At first I was told that I could
only have cold beef, but not being a Staff Officer, and not being afraid of being called a
luxurious and self-indulgent pig, I insisted upon having some hot soup and some cold pheasant,
and also a cup of hot cocoa. After this warming supper I went to Garland's, and found awaiting
me large packets of letters and proofs. Next morning I was writing my Thursday leader at The
Spectator office, "as usual."

My last and most exciting visit to the front took place on August 2, 1916, that is, just after
the great attack on the Somme. Most of my experiences, however, though very exciting to me
at the time, would now make very dull reading. Still, there were one or two impressive moments.
During the visit I was for a night a guest at Lord Haig's advanced headquarters, and from a
little hill above the château in which he lived, I was able to see the trench-line by night.

During dinner, the guns began to speak loudly, and after dinner I got one of the Staff to take
me to the top of the down above the château to watch the lights of the battle-line. It was
a memorable sight. The flashes of our guns on one side, and of those of the Germans on the
other, made an almost continuous line of pallid light. Besides, every minute or two, all along
the front, one could see the German or British magnesium flares illuminating the trench-line.
These flares are used as one uses a bull's-eye on a dark walk. Just as you turn the bull's-eye
on any place which you are not quite sure of, so a flare-light is sent up when either side
suspects evil designs on a particular part of their trench-line. The effect of the lights was
very much like that of a distant firework display, but the continual roar of the guns gave
a touch of anger and menace which made one realise that one was watching war and not a Brock's
Benefit. The roar of the artillery lasted all night, and when I woke early in the morning it
was still going on. Just about five o'clock, however, it suddenly stopped, and I realised with
a thumping heart that the Australians and Kents and Surreys were going over the parapet at
Pozières.

At breakfast the Commander-in-Chief showed us a telephone message he had just received from
Pozières, saying that we had carried the piece of trench which we desired to carry, and had
inflicted considerable losses upon the Germans without suffering too heavily ourselves. We
had, besides, taken several hundred prisoners.

In the course of this visit, I had the good luck to go into the former German trenches at Notre
Dame de Lorette, and also to see some of the German first-line trenches and dug-outs on the
Somme at Fricourt, and Albert and its hanging statue. But although this was exciting, it was
eclipsed by a visit to Ypres, which I was able to induce my friend, R----, to manage for me.
Ypres just then was not considered a very healthy spot. I was General Hunter Weston's guest
at the Château de Louvet.

I had once before been in Ypres. It was in the course of a bicycle tour in 1896 or '97, a fact
which afforded me some very poignant points of comparison. The chief thing that is impressed
on my memory was a curious and pathetic little idyll which is thus recorded in my Diary.

We left our car outside the walls, and entered Ypres close to the Menin Gate, now demolished--where
my wife and I entered the town twenty years ago.

(We bicycled from Lille, where we had gone to see the Lille bust--a journey which the whole
wealth of the world could not now buy one the right to take.)

I was glad to find that my memory was not in fault, and I recalled perfectly the great grey-brick
walls and the wide moat which in June, 1896, was covered with white waterlilies. There seemed
to be none now, but perhaps "they withered all" when the town died. I should not wonder if
this were so, for shells must certainly have dropped in the moat, and in so doing must have
disturbed them at the very roots. Crossing the moat by the bridge, we went to the Place, once
bordered by one of the greatest and most magnificent examples of civic mediaeval architecture
the world had to show--the Cloth Hall of Ypres. Its walls now only stand some 20 or 30 feet
high. The remains of the towers of the Cathedral are a little higher, and one of the pinnacles
of the Cloth Hall points like a gaunt grey finger to the sky. I wandered alone into the Institute
of St. Vincent de Paul, which stands to the north of the Place and is only partially ruined.
The façade, a pleasant example of Louis XIV work, is still standing, and there are also pieces
of the roof intact. One enters by the church or chapel door. I passed through this, with its
desecrated altars and its ruined ecclesiastical finery, into the sacristies and other rooms
behind, including one lofty room lined entirely with blue-and-white tiles. While there, I heard,
to my surprise, a faint and very distant sound of a sweeping broom. It echoed through those
empty, roofless halls with a weird sound, for at that moment there was only an occasional growl
of artillery in the air. Everything else was strangely quiet. Needless to say, an uninhabited
town is never noisy, and at five o'clock in the morning it is not merely not noisy but deadly
still. Greatly astonished, I followed the sound through a long succession of ruined rooms,
until I came upon a soldier with a broom, steadily sweeping the floor of a small empty room
a little off the main sacristy. He had a steel helmet upon his head, like myself. Slowly and
like a man in a dream he plied his work. He looked at me as if I too were part of the dream,
and when I asked him what his regiment was, he answered with a sort of shadowy salute and in
faint, far-away tones, "The 52nd." I am bound to say I have never been more taken aback than
I was by that answer. It literally left me speechless--a record, my friends tell me. The strangeness
of the whole scene and the silence had made me prepared for mysteries, but it was a little
too much to be told that I was face to face with a man from one of the most famous of the Peninsular
regiments. It is unnecessary to say that no modern soldier, asked his regiment, would now give
its old numeral. He would have described himself as belonging to, say, the 2nd Battalion of
the Oxford and Bucks Light Infantry. I hastily retreated from this vision of the past, and
recounted my experiences to R----. As much mystified as myself, he moved with me on the sound
of the broom. The man gave him the same answer as he did to me, and produced the same sense
of mystery. But then there came the prosaic explanation. He belonged, he added, to the Canadians.
His far-away manner was soon accounted for by the fact that he was a French-speaking Canadian
and only very dimly understood my question. So passed into prose a very pretty piece of mystery!
He was no doubt a Roman Catholic and anxious to do anything he could to keep the sanctuary
clean. From the Grande Place, with its air of Pompeian melancholy, we passed on to the ramparts.
There, I was thrilled to see the guard being relieved in the dead silence of the dawn by helmet-clad
men. Mounting or relieving guard on these ramparts is no empty pageant, for at any moment a
German shell may drop and obliterate the post.... When we had gone what I judge to be about
a mile along the canal, it being now seven o'clock, we turned off to the left into some fields,
in order to take a path which led to a point in the road where our car had been sent round
to meet us. When we were about half the way across the fields a shell came over our heads,
and we could see it bursting upon the road almost exactly at the spot where we expected the
car to wait. This was somewhat disconcerting, and R., after the manner of the British officer,
whose first thought in reality as well as in fiction is for his man, showed a good deal of
anxiety lest his chauffeur should have been in trouble. The shell was not a solitary one, and
there was soon another bursting on our left and another in the air in front of us. Though I
have, in the abstract, no desire for shellfire, even when very mild, I could not, in a sense,
help being glad that I was obliged to get so excellent a view of what a shell bursting in the
air looks like at fairly close quarters. To be truthful, it looks almost exactly like what
I used to call an absurdly exaggerated picture in the illustrated newspapers! There was no
great danger, but R.--- who was no doubt slightly anxious about his charge, i.e. myself, just
as one is anxious when showing sights to visitors when one is threatened by a hailstorm,--thought
we had better sit down and wait till we saw whether the shelling was going to stop or possibly
develop into something really unpleasant. Accordingly, we sat down on what had once been a
rather neat piece of sandbag work, something in the nature of what an Irishman might have called
a "built-up dug-out." Though the roof was off, I was glad to have a feeling of security in
the small of my back. It rested against a double thickness of sandbags. While waiting here
I was consoled by my companion by a story of what an artillery general had said to him under
similar circumstances, i.e. that when one saw the shells not bursting near enough to do any
harm, one was perfectly safe. The only trouble, he went on, was that "some infernal idiot in
the German artillery positions might go and monkey with the sights." "In that case, there might
be a nasty accident." Happily no interfering idiot in this case monkeyed with the sights, and
very soon the battery which was attending to our part of the country "ceased fire," and it
was soon pronounced safe for us to resume our walk. Altogether I was much impressed with R.'s
complete indifference. Nothing could have been more reassuring for civilian nerves. When we
emerged on the piece of road where we ought to have found our car and chauffeur, we were immediately
plunged back from the solemnities of war into the normal picnic situation. Everyone knows how
at a picnic the car is sent round another way, with clear directions to go to a perfectly familiar
spot, a place where the host says he has made his chauffeur meet him a dozen times before,
and to wait there. Yet the rendezvous when you reach it always turns out to be absolutely vacant
and bereft, not only of the car but of any signs of human life whatever. No desert looks so
forlorn as a place where one expects to meet somebody and does not meet them. This was exactly
our case. Happily there were no signs of the car having been destroyed, and therefore our anxiety
for the chauffeur's safety was relieved.

To cut a long story short, we wandered about till we found and commandeered another car, and
drove up the main road. There we soon found the errant car, wailing behind a shed and some
trees. It appeared that the chauffeur had found the rendezvous too hot for him, after two shells
burst not a dozen yards away from the car, and he retreated therefore to a safe corner, where
we found him talking to a fellow- soldier. He was very properly reprimanded for having moved
from the place where he was told to wait, but all the same I was glad there was no accident.

During our return journey, we were not worried by bombardment of any kind, and got back to
H. Q. for an excellent breakfast at 8.30. The morning I spent strolling about the grounds of
the château. At luncheon, R. asked me what I would like to do, and I suggested a visit to the
Belgian inundations. The arrangements required were somewhat elaborate, but thanks to the good
offices of the Belgian liaison officer attached to the Corps Commander's staff, we got the
necessary permits. I am exceedingly glad to think that we did pay this visit, for it was not
only most picturesque but also most deeply interesting from a military point of view. The greater
part of the Belgian line and the whole of the part we visited runs parallel to the course of
the canalised river Yser, which empties itself into the sea at Nieuport. To reach it we had
to pass through Furnes, most charming of old Flemish towns, with a ravishing Grande Place,
surrounded by beautiful brick houses, some of them of the XVth century, some of them dating
from the time of the Spanish occupation, and some again, of the epoch of Louis XIV. As the
Belgian lines are on a dead flat alluvial plain reclaimed from the sea, it had proved impossible
to manage communication-trenches. If they were dug into the ground they would instantly become
full of water. No doubt they might have been built up with sandbag parapets, but this apparently
was not thought necessary, owing, no doubt, to the fact that the inundation pushes back the
German lines for nearly two miles. We (i.e. the two Belgian officers who accompanied us, R.
and myself) all packed into one motor for this part of the drive, lest two motors should draw
the attention of the enemy's artillery. Also the car was made to drive very slowly lest it
should raise a cloud of dust and so give us away. We ran up a road parallel to the course of
the Yser, and passed three brick chimneys belonging to a factory which had been much knocked
about by the German artillery fire. One of the chimneys was pierced by the very neatest shell-hole
you ever saw. It went straight through the shaft of the chimney, in at one side and out at
the other, for all the world like two windows opposite each other. The fabric of the chimney
remained secure. Needless to say, this eye was put into the needle of the chimney because it
had been used as a Belgian observation- post. We soon got out of our car and walked across
the fields to the old railway embankment, which was now being used as the bank of the inundation.
On the land side of it the ground was marshy, but it was terra firma. On the other side there
are two thousand yards of grey-brown water about three or four feet deep. The inundation was
produced by reversing the process of reclamation. The gates of the Yser used to be shut against
high tides, to prevent the sea-water coming up, and opened at low tides to let down the land
water. Now they are opened at high tides, so that the tide can rush in and maintain the inundation,
and at low tides they are closed, so that the fresh water of the Yser can overflow its banks.
On the top of the railway bank is a fine series of sandbag parapets and parados. R., however,
pointed out that the parados is so good as to be really another parapet. Therefore, if the
enemy took those Belgian trenches they would, without any alteration of the premises, be able
to open business on the south side. In the south face of the railway embankment a number of
excellent dug-outs have been excavated, and strengthened with stone, brickwork, and concrete
by the ingenious Belgian engineers. Those works showed what the world has always seen in the
architecture of the Low Countries, namely, what wonderful constructors are the Flemings. Building
seems to come as naturally to them as to the Italians, though their staple is brick, not marble.

Before I leave the subject of the inundations, I ought to say that across the stretch of muddy
water the Belgians hold a good many little islets and pieces of ground, which, for some reason
or other, are a few feet higher than the rest of the reclaimed plain. Communication with these
is kept, not by boats, but by paths of duck-board which lie across the flooded lands. The Germans,
however, recognise that they have been completely outwitted by the inundation, and that it
is no use to attempt to attack the Belgians. Accordingly things are very quiet on this line.
It happened, however, that as we walked back across the fields, having followed the same plan
as in the morning of sending our car round to meet us at a safe place, the Germans chose to
throw a few shells, and I had therefore, when I reached the place of safety, the feeling, good
to the civilian heart, that I had been shelled both before and after luncheon in one day--though
I admit that the shelling was not of a very serious description. It did, however, justify the
steel helmet and the gas-mask.

I shall end my Idylls of the War with what I hope will not be called a frivolous note.

At the end of the war, when men had to be taken away even from the necessary work of agriculture,
women, with that surprising capacity for work of all kinds, which seems to be their privilege,
took on every sort of job and did them all remarkably well. Perhaps the most curious instance
of this is that women at once took up the work of shepherds, and began to keep their flocks
on bleak and lonely Downs; a function, remember, which no women had performed in England for
two or three hundred years. Here is my account of the first shepherdess I ever saw, written
on October, 1918, and on the day of my encounter.

I had always longed to see a shepherdess, keeping her sheep on the Downs, and watching them
feed, in sober security. I think it was that desire that made me, when at Oxford, contemplate
a learned study of Elizabethan pastoral plays--a work which, if I remember rightly, never got
beyond a dedication to a damsel who, "perchance to soothe my youthful dreams," appeared too
bright for common life and needed the crook and the wreath. And now today I saw, as I was riding
along the Pilgrim's Way across the Downs, a shepherdess. Alas! quantum mutata ab ilia. Even
when I saw her, a long distance off, leaning on her crook, I did not desire to:--

  "Assume her homely ways and dress,
   A shepherd, she a shepherdess."

Still less, when I rode up closer, did I entertain any romantic ideas. I had not been so fantastic
in mind as to expect a war shepherdess to wear a straw hat in December, wreathed with roses
and forget-me-nots, or a mixture of all the flowers of spring, summer, and autumn, as is the
wear of the pastoral Muse. Again, I did not look for a "Rogue in porcelain," with gold buckles
on neat black shoes, and highly ornamented stays worn outside her gown. A stalwart young woman,
in a khaki smock and sou'- wester, Bedford-cord breeches, and long leather boots, would have
satisfied my utmost demands in 1918. Instead, however, my shepherdess was dressed, if her clothes
could be called dress, like a female tramp. Long draggle-tailed skirts, some sort of a shawl,
and the most appalling old cloth cap on her head, concealing a small quantity of grey hairs
and shading a wrinkled, aged face! It was a bitter disappointment. She would have done far
better for a Norn or one of the Weird Sisters. Yet, when I stopped my horse to talk to her--I
had not forgotten that "the courtesy of shepherds" demands that one should always exchange
words with the folk of the lonely trade--I found myself unconsciously dropping into the language
of pastoral verse. Does not the Third Eclogue of Virgil begin:

  "Die mihi, ... ? An Melibei?"

At any rate, I began: "Whose flock is this?" She answered as if out of the book: "It's Farmer
Black's. First the one-armed shepherd had it. Now I've got it," and her eyes looked lovingly
on as fine a flock of ewes as you could wish to see. They were spread fanwise along the opposite
side of the sharply-defined chalk valley. She went on to tell me that she had also got the
lamb flock, but not with her that day. I asked how she had come to take up pastoral work, thinking
that probably she was the widow of a shepherd. But it seemed that she had never done shepherd's
work before, though, as she said, she had "been brought up among them." "Them" was obviously
the ewes and lambs. One could see that she was thoroughly competent, and that while she was
in charge there would be no straying or stealing, or over-feeding, or starving, or any other
ill. Then we talked of her dog, who sat by her, vigilant and confident, ready at her slightest
word or nod to race round his charges. Yes, he was a good dog now, but when she had him first
he was wicked. "He was that spiteful, you dursn't trust him." The one-armed shepherd had "used
him cruel," and made him savage with the sheep. Now at last she had got him quite right again,
and she looked down lovingly upon the dog--a bob- tail of the South Down breed--who sat at
attention by her side. But, she ended, the work was very hard, and the weather getting too
cold for her to be up on the Downs much longer. She would have to give it up for this winter.

I wished her good luck and cantered off, a disillusioned man. But as I turned my heard for
one more glimpse of my one and only shepherdess, I saw the dog looking up with the utmost faith
and affection into her poor, kindly, weazened old face. I could not wish her other than she
was. I could well believe that the farmer was satisfied with her, and hardly regretted that
she had not thought it worth while to dress the part with a little more attention. Perhaps
in the time to come we shall develop a real race of shepherdesses,

  "Who without sadness shall be safe,
   And gay without frivolity."
  If we do, I think they are pretty sure, whether young or old, to tie
bunches of wild flowers to their crooks. But, after all, for a war
shepherdess, garments such as my Downland Amoret had on were more
appropriate. Anyway, the brave old thing was doing her war-work
sturdily. She shivered, I am sure, for service not for hire. All honour
to her and the thousands of women who did as she did!

CHAPTER XXIV

FIVE GREAT MEN

There are five men,--three of them close friends and the others good friends and men for whom
I felt a warm admiration,--who stand out as prominent influences in my life. In the first group
I put Lord Cromer, Colonel John Hay, and Mr. Theodore Roosevelt. They were men with whom I
was, I think, in sympathy on every point in regard to the conduct of political life and to
the spirit in which it should be carried on. The other two were Joseph Chamberlain and the
Duke of Devonshire. Mr. Chamberlain I knew intimately and esteemed highly, having always a
sincere admiration for him even when we differed most in politics. In regard to the other,
the late Duke of Devonshire, I may say that although I was on much less intimate terms with
him than with Mr. Chamberlain, I never felt any political difference, except in the matter
of speed of action. Yet even when one was most impatient with the Duke's slowness in uptake,
one often admired him most and felt at the back of one's mind that he was most in the right.

In selecting these five men from among my friends I must remind people that this does not show
that they were my only close and intimate friends in public life. There were plenty of others,
but I am thankful to say I am prevented from mentioning most of them because of my rule not
to write of the living. Indeed, I have been so fortunate in my friends that but for this rule
I could fill not a single volume but a series of vast tomes.

In moments of mental elation I had planned to direct my executors to place upon the tablet
which will be fixed to the wall of the Strachey Chapel in Chew Magna Church, nothing but the
words: "His friends were many and true-hearted." I admit that this is a piece of self-laudation
that a man could hardly be justified in bestowing upon himself. If you can read their "history
in a people's eyes," you can certainly best read a man's history by asking who were his friends
and how did they treat him and feel towards him. Till lately, however, I have felt a difficulty
in the matter, for, to tell the truth, these deeply moving words came in the first place not
from some classical writer but from that nautical ditty, "Tom Bowling." They are the work of
that amazing British Tyrteus Dibdin,--the broken-down poet actor who drew an annual salary
from the Admiralty for maintaining the spirit of the British Navy through his songs! ["We 'ires
a poet for ourselves" was, according to Byron, the boast of Mr. Rowland of oily fame. The Admiralty
could make a similar claim.]

I felt that it would be rather much to ask one's executor to get a country vicar to pass a
line of a nautical ditty for insertion in a church. If, in verifying the quotation, the parson
should be arrested by the neighbouring line, "His Poll was kind and true," what then? There
is no harm in the poem as a whole but somehow it has not quite the monumental air about it.
Lately, however, I discovered to my great satisfaction and not a little to my amusement that,
as so often happens, one of the Greeks of the great age had been before Dibdin. In that enchanting
dialogue, "The Symposium" of Xenophon, Hermogenes is asked by one of the persons of the dialogue:
"On what do you plume yourself most highly?" "On the virtue and the power of my friends," he
answered, "and that being what they are, they care for me." I feel now that when the time comes,
my complimentary self-determination may be shrouded in the veil of a learned language, and
if the words, "His friends were many and true-hearted" are added in the vernacular they will
pass with men of Hellenic culture as an allowable example of a free translation.

It will also have a certain support from one of the tablets with which my tablet will be colleague,
the tablet that commemorates the first Sir Henry Strachey, the Secretary of Clive and a man
who was for forty years and more a Member of the House of Commons. This epitaph has not the
usual flowery pomposity that one would expect to find in the case of a man of his age and occupation
and position. It is reticent, if conventional. One phrase, however, stands out. Henry Strachey
is described as "an active friend." That is much too great praise for a man to claim for himself,
but there is nothing that I should like better than to be able to think when I boasted that
my friends, like the friends of Hermogenes, were many and cared for me, that I had helped to
make them so because in a world so full of passive friends I had at any rate tried to be active.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must begin with Lord Cromer, for I had a regard for him, and for his wise and stimulating
advice, which touches the point of veneration. He was seldom out of my thoughts. He was in
the habit of consulting me freely in regard to public events and on other great matters, and
we either met and talked or else wrote to each other almost daily. I was a much younger man
than he, and I had not, as he had, come into personal contact with the problems of practical
administration at first hand, but had been accustomed to see them and deal with them rather
as abstractions. It is true that the questions on which my opinion had to be expressed in The
Spectator were often of vital importance and that I had to advise my readers thereon. Still,
I was never myself an executant. I was, indeed, rather like the type of laboratory doctor who
has of late come into being. He does not himself come into contact with the patient though
he is asked to investigate special points. His opinion may have great weight and influence,
but he does not carry out the physical cure of the patient.

Many of Lord Cromer's oldest and most intimate friends may perhaps be surprised to hear that
Lord Cromer consulted me so often and on so many points. If so, I shall not be astonished at
their astonishment. It would be most natural in the case of a man so self-reliant, so able
to judge and balance things for himself--so little liable to be carried away by personal feelings,
as Lord Cromer. Yet, it is true The reason was, I think, that Lord Cromer found with me, as
I found with him, that in response to, or in reaction from any particular series of events
we almost always found ourselves ad idem. We wanted the same good causes to win, and we wanted
to frustrate the same evil projects. In public affairs, we agreed not only as to what was injurious
and as to what was sound, but, which is far more important, we agreed as to what was possible.

In economic matters, both in theory and practice, we moved on exactly the same lines. Once
or twice, when I most sincerely thought that I was differing from Lord Cromer and told him
so, because I felt I might seem to be shifting my ground,--or rather, looking at things from
a different angle,--I found that an exactly similar process had gone on in his mind.

As so often happens with a friendship of this kind, I foretold in my own mind almost from the
first moment I saw him, the kind of tie that was going to unite us. I had not spent half an
hour in his company before I realized that I had at last found a man dealing with great affairs
in a great way,--not only a man who satisfied me absolutely in theory, but a man with whom
I could act unreservedly because his mind was tuned to the same pitch as mine.

I well remember the day and the hour of our meeting. Always deeply interested in Imperial questions,
and especially in the Egyptian problem, I determined, in the year 1896, to pay a visit to Egypt.
Like most young men of my day, I admired Lord Cromer and his work, but I had no special cult
for him. Naturally, however, I took out letters of introduction, for until the end of his occupation
of the post of Consul General, he was "Egypt." One of these was from my chief, Mr. Hutton,
one from my uncle, Sir Richard Strachey, and another, if I remember rightly, from another uncle,
Sir John Strachey; the two uncles had been colleagues of Lord Cromer's on the Indian Council.
Directly I arrived in Cairo, I left my card and my letters of introduction in the usual way,
and expected, after a decent delay, to be asked to pay a semiofficial visit at the Agency.
Instead, Lord Cromer acted with his characteristic promptitude. Early on the morning of the
day after I had left my letters of introduction and my own and my wife's cards, there came
one of the beautifully dressed Syces from the Agency with an invitation to lunch with the Cromers
that day. We went and to our great delight found them alone. Therefore, I was able at once
to get en rapport with my friend that was to be. I had not finished luncheon before we had
plunged into the whole Egyptian question and had got to my own cherished point, one connected
with the French occupation of Tunis, their promises of evacuation, and so forth. This, my first
experience of I do not know how many hundred talks with Lord Cromer, was exactly like the last.
In the art of unfolding his mind and his subject he was a master. I questioned and he answered,
and I remember distinctly feeling that I had never before put myself so easily en rapport with
any man. I had been told that he was gruff, nay, grumpy, and quite without any of the arts
of the diplomatist, and that I should find him very different from the statesmen and politicians
to whom I was accustomed. Instead, I found him plain and straightforward, but as kind as he
was quick.

After luncheon, we had a very long talk which was at last interrupted by Lord Cromer having
to go out to open something or to see somebody. As I was saying good-bye he suddenly said:
"I suppose you can keep a secret?" I made a suitable reply, and added I had a lock to my portmanteau.
With his quick step he was at the side of his bureau in a moment. Unlocking a drawer, he thrust
into my hand a white paper. "That," he said, "is a memorandum which I wrote the other day for
Lord Salisbury, giving a character of the Khedive and of all the chief Egyptian statesmen.
It wouldn't do to lose it, and there are, I suppose, agents of the Khedive who might possibly
look out for papers in your rooms if they heard you had been seeing me." He said this rather
apologetically, for he hated anything sensational or melodramatic like the true Whig he was.
He added however: "I think it would be better when you are not reading it if you kept it in
your portmanteau. Don't trouble to return it till you have read it thoroughly. I think it will
amuse you."

I was touched at the moment, but when I got back to my hotel and saw the nature of the document
I felt pleased beyond words. I did not, of course, imagine that Lord Cromer would suspect me
of wanting to betray his secrets, but considering the place, the Agent General's position,
and the fact that he was then at the height of his quarrel with the Khedive and on the most
delicate terms with half the men mentioned in the document, I felt that he had reposed a confidence
in me which most people would have thought only justified in the case of a man they had known
for years, a man who, they were sure, would not cackle about a subject of which he was naturally,
as I was, quite ignorant. No doubt he knew there was no peril of my publishing anything, but
if I had left these perfectly plain-spoken dossiers of all the big men in Cairo about in the
hotel, the result might have been catastrophic. This exhibition of confidence was characteristic
of Cromer. If he trusted you, he trusted you altogether. Though he indulged in no nonsense
about being able to tell in a moment whether a man was trustworthy or not, and did not often
act upon impulse, he was quite capable of doing so on occasion.

In itself the document was exceedingly brilliant and just the piece of work which a busy Prime
Minister like Lord Salisbury would greatly value. It put him au fait with the exact position
of the various players in the great game of intrigue which was always going on, and with the
plots and counter plots made in the Khedive's Palace or in the houses of the various Pashas.
They spent most of their time in those days in trying to trip up the Agency.

Lord Cromer not only exposed the motives of the men with whom he was dealing; he often gave
the just apologies for these motives. But he did more than this. Without being unduly literary
or rhetorical he gave lively characters of the men described. What fascinated me about these
analyses of character, however, was that though they were like the best literature, you felt
that Cromer had never let himself be betrayed into an epigram, a telling stroke, or a melodramatic
shadow in order to heighten the literary effect. The document was a real State Paper, and not
a piece of imitation Tacitus or Saint Simon.

I found myself greatly admiring and even touched with envy. I wondered whether, in similar
circumstances, I should have been able to resist the temptation to be Tacitean. One felt instinctively
that Lord Salisbury must have been grateful to have such an instrument for dealing with a situation
so delicate and so intricate and placing so great a responsibility on the man in charge.

During my stay in Cairo, my intimacy with Lord Cromer deepened from day to day. We talked and
talked, and from every talk I gained not only knowledge of the East, but knowledge on a thousand
points of practical and also theoretical politics. Cromer, like so many Imperial administrators
before him, was an exceedingly well-read man, in modern and ancient history, in Economics,
and in political theory. Above all, he was a devotee of Memoirs and he was always able to reinforce
an argument with "Don't you remember what ... said about that." I may say frankly that the
great delight to me was the delight of confirmation. Inexperienced as I then was in public
affairs, it was a matter of no small pleasure and of no small amount of pride to find my own
special opinions, views, and theories as to political action plainly endorsed.

In not a single case was I disappointed or disillusioned either with what had been my own views
or with what were Lord Cromer's. I soon saw, as I am sure did he, that we were capable of a
real intellectual alliance; and so our friendship was made.

Considering the reputation that Lord Cromer had for masterfulness and for something approaching
disregard of other people's feelings when he thought them foolish or in the wrong; for the
irritability of extreme energy; or again for a fierce impatience with anyone who opposed his
views, my experience surprised me not a little. I did not find a trace of these things in my
intercourse with him, and this in spite of the fact that knowing what to expect in this way,
I was keenly on the lookout. Moreover I was, with all a young man's prickliness, quite determined
that I would not be treated as I was told Cromer was apt to treat people. But I seldom if ever
found myself in disagreement with him on the merits and never as to manner of action. No doubt
we were as a rule concerned with matters where I did not know the facts and he did.

Neither of us could, of course, differ as to conclusions when once the facts were agreed on.
Each had his little inch measure of logic and both measures were scaled alike. Still, in intercourse
so constant as that between us in letters and in talk, it is, I must confess, extraordinary
that he and I never really differed and that this was certainly not due to either of us being
prepared to give way upon essentials.

If anyone thinks that I occupied what the XVIIIth century people were wont to call the spaniel
position to Lord Cromer, they are mistaken. He never attempted to bully me out of an opinion
or even out of a prejudice. If, indeed, I had been a self-conscious man, I might have been
a little worried by the fact that when I told him of some line that I had taken or was going
to take in The Spectator, he would almost always say, with his cheerful and eager self-confidence:
"You are perfectly right: of course, that's the line to take"; and so forth.

It was indeed, sometimes a subject of chaff in my family when Cromer was staying with us at
Newlands that he would begin ten or twelve sentences in the course of a Saturday to Monday
visit with: "Strachey, you and I have been absolutely right from beginning to end." And so
I believe we were, though it may seem strange that I should have the hardihood to record it
"between boards."

In view of Cromer's alleged testiness, I may record a very striking "contraindication." During
the year and a half or nearly two years in which he wrote a review every week in The Spectator
on some important book, I never had any difficulties with him whatever. He was, with the possible
exception of my cousin, Lytton Strachey, the best reviewer I ever had. He not only took an
immense amount of trouble with his reviews from his own point of view, but he also took immense
trouble to realise and understand The Spectator view and to commit me to nothing which he thought
I might dislike. It happened, however, that on one occasion I did have to use the editorial
blue pencil and alter something, or at any rate get him to alter it. At first he seemed a little
fussy about my objection, but when I was firm and explained my reasons he agreed, and in the
end, with that attractive frankness that always went side by side with any testiness, he said
that on reflection he thought I was perfectly right.

In this context I ought also to record that so clever a reviewer was he and so reasonable were
all his views, that it was not only difficult but almost impossible to catch him out, I will
not say in a mistake in facts, for in these he was always accurate, but in an over-statement
or an under-statement.

A full balanced judgment of Lord Cromer and his work for the country and the Empire is one
which cannot be framed now. Again, I am not the man to frame it, for I admit that I loved the
man too much to make a judicial estimate by me possible. Still, I want to say something of
his character and his achievement. He stood for so much that is good in our national activities,
and his example and inspiration are of such value, that I desire almost beyond anything else
in politics to make people understand his point of view; and specially in what pertains to
the Government of the Eastern races. In such questions the British people will, I am confident,
find his principles the safest of guides.

I realise that Lord Cromer is now in the blind spot of politics. Sooner or later, however,
there will be a revival in interest in this great man. People will begin to ask what it was
that made his fame with his contemporaries so great. To such questions I shall venture to anticipate
the answer.

The British people may be stupid, but they know a man when they see him. That is why they honoured
Lord Cromer, yet I doubt if even one per cent. of the nation could have given true and sufficient
reasons for the belief that was in them. It was certainly not because he had added, in fact
if not in name, a great province to the British Empire. Plenty of countries richer and greater
have been drawn within the magic circle of the Pax Britannica without the men who accomplished
the task having received anything approaching the recognition accorded to Lord Cromer. Again,
it was not Lord Cromer's administrative skill that won him his fame, great though that skill
was. In India and in East and West Africa we have had examples of successful development by
great officials that have passed almost unnoticed. Lord Cromer's financial ability, or shall
I say financial judgment? for he himself was the last man to profess any special and personal
knowledge of figures, was doubtless very great; but most of his countrymen were quite incapable
of gauging its scope, or of understanding what he had done to produce order out of chaos, or
how he had turned a bankrupt country into a solvent one.

Deftness, no matter how great, in the placing of a loan, or in evolving financial freedom out
of the mass of hostile checks and balances sought to be set up by the Powers in Egypt, would
by itself have entirely failed to win him the acclamations which greeted him when he retired
from active duty. Even his work as a diplomatist, though so supremely skilful, was never properly
understood at home. There was a vague notion that he had played a lone hand against all the
Powers and had won out, but success here could not possibly have obtained for Lord Cromer that
unbounded confidence which was shown him by the nation.

The respect and veneration which the British public felt for Lord Cromer would, if his health
had permitted, have called him to power at the moment of worst crisis in the war; yet those
who called him could not have said why they felt sure he would prove the organizer of victory.
They were content to believe that it was so.

What was the quality that placed Lord Cromer so high in the regard of his fellow-countrymen
throughout Britain and the Empire? What was it that made him universally respected,--as much
by soldiers as by civilians, by officials as by Members of Parliament, by Whigs as by Radicals,
by Socialists as by Individualists? The answer is to be found in the spirit in which Lord Cromer
did his work. What raised him above the rank-and-file of our public men was his obedience to
a very plain and obvious rule. It was this: to govern always in the interests of the governed.
This sounds a trite and elementary proposition, and yet the path it marks out is often a very
difficult one to follow. It may be straight, but it is so narrow that only the well-balanced
man can avoid stepping off either to the right or to the left. It is always a plank across
a stream; sometimes it may be compared to a spear resting on the rocks in a raging torrent.

There are a hundred temptations, many of them by no means ignoble, to divert the Imperial administrator
from keeping the narrow path exactly. In certain circumstances it may seem a positive virtue
to exploit some province of the Empire for the Mother Country, or for the Empire as a whole--to
forget the interests of the governed in the interests of the great organism of which that province
forms only a part. Plentiful are the arguments for leaning a little to the one side or to the
other. Yet if these were listened to, on the ground of the interests of the Empire as a whole
(it must be admitted that the temptation to think of the interests of the people of these islands
is one which has been steadily resisted by all our great Proconsuls) they might bring disaster
in their train.

Strange as it may seem, nothing has proved a better or surer foundation of Empire, or has more
helped even its material development, than the determination not to take advantage of the absolute
power of the Mother Country over the Dependencies and subject States, but, on the contrary,
to develop these as a sacred trust. We rightly asked for, and we took, far more help from the
Daughter Nations during the war than from the Dependencies, for the very good reason that the
Daughter Nations were their own mistresses and could do what they liked. They stood on an equality
with us. In the case of the Dependencies, we are Trustees, and no temptation whatever, either
for ourselves or for others, would allow us to budge one inch from the straight path.

Here, Lord Cromer was at his very strongest. He was an ideal Trustee. And what made this evident
was the fact that he talked comparatively little about his trust, and never behaved in regard
to it as a pedant or a prig. As long as the principle was firmly maintained, he bothered himself
very little about matters of appearance.

If Lord Cromer kept the path successfully in this respect, he kept it equally well in regard
to another temptation. The weak administrator is always liable to govern, not in the true interests
of the governed, but in what the governed think is their interest--to do what they actually
desire rather than what they would desire if they were better judges. Weak governors, that
is, act as if they were servants and not trustees. To play the part of an obedient servant
is right and necessary here, for we are over age, have no need of trustees, and govern ourselves.
It is wrong when you stand in loco parentis to those whose affairs you administer. We all know
what is the kind of government that an Eastern people establishes for itself. In spite of the
suffering that it inflicts upon the people, there is good evidence to show that, judged by
the test of popularity, the governed in the East prefer arbitrary personal rule to just and
efficient constitutional government. In the same way a child will tell you, and honestly tell
you, that he prefers raspberry-jam and heavy pastry at odd times to regular meals of brown
bread and butter, and that he is quite willing, in the interests of the pastry system of nourishment,
to brave the pains which Mary experienced when she consumed both jam and pastry. The wise guardian
does not, however, in view of such statement, conclude that it is his or her duty to let the
child have whatever he likes.

In the same way, Lord Cromer, though perfectly willing to admit that in a truly self-governing
State it is the duty of the administrator either to resign or to carry out the will of his
masters, the people, he would make no such admission in the case of an Oriental country. Yet
this did not, as might be supposed, lead to a cold, harsh, or metallic system of government.
Lord Cromer had far too much wisdom and moderation, was far too much of a Whig, as he himself
would have said, to push to extremes the view that a native must have what was good for him,
and not what he asked for at the top of his voice.

In small matters, indeed in all non-essentials, Lord Cromer strove of course to give the native
what he wanted, and strove still more to refrain from forcing on him, because it was for his
good, what he did not want. Lord Cromer was never tired of quoting what, in Bacon's phrase,
he would call "luciferous" stories, to illustrate the folly of the administrator who thrusts
physical improvements or the devices of European enlightenment upon the unwilling Oriental
solely because they are good per se, or economical, or will make the governed richer or cleverer
or happier. One of the stories of which Lord Cromer was particularly fond was that of the young
Indian civilian who on his first day in a new district, and when he was entirely unknown, took
a walk in the fields and saw an elderly ryot ploughing the land. Being good at the vernacular
and full of zeal, the district officer asked how things were in that part of the country. The
old man, like all tillers of the soil, replied with a kind of gloomy complacency that things
were undoubtedly very bad, but that they might be worse. Anyway the only thing to do was to
go on cultivating the land. "This year it is the cattle plague. Last year it was the Agricultural
College. But since they are both the will of God, both must be borne without complaint." That
story the present writer remembers Lord Cromer telling him on his return from the opening of
a model farm or some such agricultural improvement. Such improvements ought, no doubt, as Lord
Cromer said, to make the task of the fellaheen much easier, but nevertheless it was certain
that the majority would regard them as pure evil--mere oppressions by wayward if not demented
tyrants.

They wanted to be left alone, not taught how to get another fifteen per cent, of produce out
of the land. Knowing this, Lord Cromer harried the native as little as possible. He was fond
indeed of saying that there was very little you could do to make an Oriental people grateful.--"Why
should they be grateful?" he would interject.--There was, however, one thing which they could
and did appreciate, and that was low taxation. It was no good to say to the Oriental: "It is
true you pay higher taxation, but then look at the benefits you get for it--the road up to
the door of your house which enables you to save immensely in transport, the light railway
not far off, the increased water for irrigation, a school for your children, and so forth and
so on." To all these benefits the Oriental taxpayer is totally indifferent, or at all events
he refuses to see any connection between them and the taxes paid. They come or do not come,
like the rain from Heaven. All he is certain about is that the tax-collector is asking him
double what he used to ask. So much for local improvements!

In fine, Lord Cromer, though he kept his rule to govern in the interests of the governed so
strictly and was so exact a trustee, was always human--never pedantic, professorial, or academic,
in the carrying out of his rule. He was above all things, a just man, and he realised that
justice was not true justice unless it were humanised by knowledge and the sympathy of comprehension.
Yet he knew and understood the benefits of strong government, though he always tried so to
harness his administration that the straps would gall as little as possible. That is why he
won to such a strange degree the trust and admiration, I had almost said the love, of the Egyptian
people. Peasant men and women who had never seen him, and who had the dimmest and vaguest idea
of what he was and what he stood for, yet felt an unbounded belief in his desire that they
should be justly treated. There is a well-known story which exactly illustrates the point I
am making.

A young English officer engaged in sanitary work in the Delta pointed out to a well-to-do farmer's
wife in a cholera year that she was running terrible risks by having her cesspool quite close
to the door of her house, and so placed that it was contaminating all the drinking-water used
by her and her family. At last after many ineffectual remonstrances he ordered the removal
of this sure and certain road to death by cholera. The woman was furious, and ended up a battle
royal by telling him that though for the moment he could oppress the poor and triumph over
the Godly, it would not be for long. "The man Krahmer" in Cairo would see her righted. She
would appeal to him and he would protect her.

Lord Cromer felt, and felt rightly, that this invocation was his best epitaph. Appeals, no
matter how strange, were never frowned down by him but encouraged. However ill-founded, they
taught something. They were often of an intimate character and couched in the wonderful language
of the Babu, for Egypt has its Babus as well as Bengal. One complaint which had to do with
an irrigation dispute began as follows: "Oh, hell! Lordship's face grow red with rage when
he hears too beastly conduct of Public Works Department."

Macaulay's splendid eulogy of Hampden may, with very little alteration, be applied to Lord Cromer.

For Joseph Chamberlain, I felt a very real and very warm affection as a man. Unfortunately
for me, however, I was, except in the matter of Home Rule, out of sympathy with most of his
later political principles, or, at any rate, his political standpoint. Mr. Chamberlain, though
in no sense a man of extreme, wild, or immoderate views, was in no sense a Whig. To tread the
narrow, uphill, and rather stony path of the via media, fretted him. He liked large enterprises
and large ways of carrying them out, and, though it would be a great mistake to call him imprudent,
he was distinctly a man of daring imagination in politics. He liked to prophesy and to help
fulfil his prophecies. He was not content to wait and watch things grow. He was, indeed, one
of the political gardeners who thoroughly enjoy the forcing-house. If he had been a grower
of vegetables instead of Orchids, he would have dealt, I feel sure, almost entirely in "primeurs."

I can think of no man who used the imaginative faculty more in politics than he did, except
Disraeli, and here, indeed, Mr. Chamberlain had the advantage. Disraeli was apt to let his
imagination run so wild as to become vulgar, pompous, and ostentatious, whereas Mr. Chamberlain
always kept his visionary schemes within the due bounds of seriousness and reason. Though I
think he placed no limits to the capacity of the English people to meet and to overcome dangers
and difficulties in the world of politics, and always held them, as, indeed, do I, capable
to be of heroic mould, he never inflated himself or his countrymen on any subject, but spoke
always weightily and with good sense. To take a concrete example, he, no more than Lord Cromer,
would have intoxicated his mind with a fantastic idea like that of the Cape to Cairo railway
as did Mr. Rhodes. That was at its best only a symbol and at worst the caprice of an Imperial
egoist. Though Mr. Chamberlain had gained from his training and business success some of the
best qualities of the statesman, that is, confidence in himself, and his sound practical sense,
he was not, as I think his greatest admirers would agree, a deep political thinker.

He was, however, a great orator and a great parliamentary advocate, and, if properly briefed,
there was no man who could state a case better or more persuasively than he did. This gift
of advocacy, though an advocacy quite untouched by cynicism, was apt to raise doubts in the
public mind as to his sincerity,--doubts which were due to ignorance of the man and to nothing
else. It is true that he argued as the most convinced and most happy exponent of Free Trade
during the first half of his political life and later as a convinced Protectionist. Yet I am
certain that on both occasions he was perfectly sincere. In each case, though he did not realise
it, he was speaking from a brief, but from a brief that for the time had thoroughly converted
him and made him think of the policy advocated in the spirit of a missionary.

Mr. Chamberlain was a man of whom the nation was proud, and had a right to be proud. He was
a good fighter and an unwearied worker, and he spent himself ungrudgingly in the service of
his country. Above all things, he had that quality of vigour and daring which endears itself,
and always will endear itself, to a virile race. He was not for ever counting the cost of his
actions, but would as gaily as any hero of romance throw his cap over the wall and follow it
without a thought of the difficulties and dangers that might confront him on the other side.

No one has ever asserted that Mr. Chamberlain left his comrades in the lurch, failed to support
a friend in a tight place, or accepted help from others and then was careless about helping
them in return or making them acknowledgment for what they had done. Remember that it is very
rare in the case of a public man to find so total an absence of the complaint of ingratitude.
The accusation of ingratitude, indeed, may be well described as the commonest of all those
brought against the great by the small. "He was willing enough to take help from me when he
needed it; now he has raised himself, the humble ladder is kicked down or else its existence
is utterly ignored."--"While we were unknown men we worked together shoulder to shoulder and
helped each other. When he grew big and strong, he forgot the colleagues of his early days,
ignored their past services, and humiliated them with the cold eye of forgetfulness."-- "I
soon saw that, if he had not actually forgotten me, he would very much rather not be asked
to remember me."--"It was evidently a bore to him to talk of old days, or to be reminded that
even his prowess and strength had once been glad of 'a back up.'"--"He liked to think that
he owed it all to himself and to no one else." These are the kind of criticisms that most winners
in the Political Stakes have to bear. Such criticisms, very likely unfair in themselves, were,
for example, constantly made in regard to Mr. Gladstone. But though my recollection carries
me back to very nearly the beginning of Mr. Chamberlain's active career, I cannot recall a
single instance of such grumbling, either in private or public, in regard to Mr. Chamberlain.
On the contrary, the world of politics is filled with men who gratefully remember that, though
their work for Mr. Chamberlain may have been humble in appearance or in fact, he never forgot
the helping hand and the loyal service, but repaid them a hundredfold.

That genius for friendship of which Lord Morley once spoke, extended far beyond the ordinary
limits of friendship. Mr. Chamberlain not only never forgot a friend, but never forgot any
loyal or honest helper, and, what from the helper's point of view is equally important, never
forgot also that it is not enough merely to remember the helper. You must try to help him in
return.

This unwillingness to forget support, this instinct towards repayment of loyal service, was
no piece of cynical calculation, no acting on the maxim that the way to get men to serve you
well and support you is to make it clear to them that you always pay your debts with full interest.
That Mr. Chamberlain was proud of the fact that no man could call him ungrateful I do not doubt;
but I am sure also that his action was due to the impulse of a generous nature and to no sordid
calculation.

He was a natural chieftain. He expected obedience and loyalty in the men who enlisted under
his banner, but he felt in every corner of his being that it was the duty of the chieftain
to succour, to help, and to advance those who stood by him. No labour and no self-sacrifice
was too great to help a member of the clan he had constituted, and it was given quite as readily
to the man who was never likely to be able to help again as to him from whom future favours
might be expected.

This quality of gratitude and devotion may not be the greatest of moral qualities, but it is
certainly one of the most attractive--a quality which will always secure a love and veneration
similar to that with which Mr. Chamberlain was regarded, not only by his own people, but throughout
the country. Cool and pedantic political philosophers may think that he carried the backing
of his friends too far, but it was a generous fault and not likely to be resented in the workaday
world. The man who has the instinct for comradeship will "bring home hearts by dozens" when
the virtuous and well-balanced awarder of the good-conduct prizes in life's school will leave
his fellows cold.

Because I have dwelt on this side of Mr. Chamberlain's character, it must not be supposed that
I have forgotten, or that I desire to minimize, the splendid public services done by him, first
in the region of municipal life--a priceless contribution--then in national politics, and last
of all in the wider Imperial sphere. In every part of our public life he lit a torch which
will not be extinguished. Men differ, and will continue to differ, as to his policy. None will
differ as to the spirit in which he acted, or deny that he gave what nations most need--the
stimulus of high endeavour.

However, I do not want to speak too much of his politics, partly because my aim is to be uncontroversial,
and still more because his personal character is far more likely to interest my readers than
any diagnosis of the politician.

The qualities of heart and head, which I have described, were not learned by me through Mr.
Chamberlain's public form, but through a close study at first hand. From the year 1887 or '88
till the Tariff Reform controversy, I was on very intimate terms, social as well as political,
with Mr. Chamberlain. I think he was fond of me. I know I was fond of him. I expect he thought
I was a little too cool, or, as he might have said, not keen enough, just as I thought him
inclined to be too zealous a partisan,--too ready to push party conditions to the uttermost.
Yet both of us, and that is after all the great thing in friendship, felt the sense of personal
attraction.

He was among other things one of the most delightful of companions. To see him, as I so often
did, in his house in the country set at the edge of a great city,--that best describes Highbury,--was
a delightful experience. The house-parties at the Whitsuntide and Easter recesses, which lasted
double the length of ordinary Saturday to Monday parties, were most attractive. Chamberlain
was an expert at asking the right people to meet each other, but if he had not been it would
not have mattered. Owing to his vigour of mind and the stimulating character of his talk he
would have turned a house-party of the purest "duds" into a success. As a matter of fact, however,
he was the last man to endure bores. People who were asked to Highbury, were asked because
he liked them, not for any conventional reasons.

Another factor which made these visits to Birmingham delightful was the hostess. Mrs. Chamberlain
had as high social qualities as the host. But I must not speak of Mrs. Chamberlain as I feel,
for to do so would break the rule of not writing about living people. I will say, however,
that even an interval of a quarter of a century--the date in her case sounds utterly preposterous
I admit--has not dimmed my recollection of a fascinating and gracious young woman. New to England,
new to our politics, and plunged into the midst of a party crisis of a very bitter kind, she
showed an unfailing instinct as a hostess. She never said an unkind thing or made an enemy.
Besides her youth, her good-looks, and her charm of manner and her natural dignity she possessed
the gift of making parties go. Though she always made herself felt in her parties, she was
never formidable. She was always friendly and yet never gushing or affected. But I most sincerely
ask Mrs. Chamberlain's pardon for I cannot conceal from myself that she will not like to be
written about in terms of eulogy.

Mr. Chamberlain was indeed singularly fortunate in his family as supporters in the matter of
entertaining. His two sons, Austen and Neville, evidently enjoyed the house-parties as much
as did their father and his guests. Both inherited a liking for good company. Therefore, whether
one went in the evening to the big or the little smoking-room one was sure of good talk.

Highbury was a house thoroughly well designed for entertainments, and the large gardens, or
small park, whichever you like to call it, which surrounded the house, afforded plenty of sitting-out
room. No one who shared in the parties will ever forget the long and good talks on the lawn
on which the wicker chairs were set with brightly coloured rugs for the sitter's feet. Guests
worthy of that honour were taken through the orchid house by Mr. Chamberlain himself, for his
knowledge and love of his favourite flower was no pose, but a reality.

This absence of "pose" was, by the way, one of the most striking things about Mr. Chamberlain.
He was an extraordinarily natural man. You cannot possibly imagine his taking up anything,
from a new kind of cigar, a new form of hat, or a new type of novel, because he was told it
was the right thing to do, or because he thought it was expedient for a politician with a future
to encourage this or that fashionable craze. I have compared him to Disraeli in the matter
of imagination. In the absence of "pose" he was, however, the exact opposite of Disraeli. For
example, Lord Beaconsfield praised Lord Bolingbroke and talked about Lord Carteret, not because
he really liked either of the statesmen mentioned, but because he thought it sounded well,
and also because it amused him to look more learned historically than he was. You could no
more expect Mr. Chamberlain to do that than to wear a particular flower, not because he liked
it, but because it had been admired by say Mr. Pitt or Mr. Canning.

It must not be supposed from this, however, that Mr. Chamberlain was indifferent to, or ignorant
of, the past. Though he was not going to let himself be dominated by old traditions, he was
as distinctly well read in political history as in poetry. If he wanted to do so, he could
quote freely and intimately from Browning, or Matthew Arnold. The latter was, I think, specially
liked by him. But here again, any idea of his liking to prove himself a person of culture or
learning cannot be entertained for a moment. He was much too sure of himself and much too sure
of his own aims to want to be regarded as a man of cultivation. He liked what he liked, and
he talked about what he liked. There was no "showing off." Again, there was not the slightest
touch of snobbishness in Mr. Chamberlain. I don't think he was even amused by people expecting
him, because he was not a man of great family or known as a great merchant prince, to be socially
a kind of wild man to whom it must seem strange to eat a good dinner every day of his life
"complete with the best of wines and cigars,"--in fact, to live exactly like men who had inherited
their money, not made it. In truth, though the fact was unknown to the public and it never
occurred to Mr. Chamberlain to talk about it, he was not a self-made man, but the son of a
rich father. He belonged to a very old City family, for Mr, Chamberlain was not a Birmingham
man, but a Londoner, through and through. His family had, however, remained in London even
after it had grown rich and not retired to the country, like so many "warm men" to use the
eighteenth century argot. I remember well Austen Chamberlain telling me that he had taken up
his membership of the Cordwainers Company by right of inheritance. His family had been connected
with that company in tail male, so to speak, since the time of Charles II.

This connection with the city companies had an interesting result. In the '70s and '80s it
was a mark of a Radical to demand the abolition of the Livery Companies of London and to say
hard things about the Corporation and the City. A Radical meeting was hardly complete without
an attack on the City and its "fat and feasting Tories." When you were on a Radical platform
you expected indeed as Shakespeare says:

  "... to hear the City
   Abused extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'"

Mr. Chamberlain, however, whether in the House of Commons or on the platform, did not like
his Colleagues to abuse the City Companies, but instead, gave them, as all sane people will
now agree quite rightly, the benefit of his support. We should all be the poorer without the
picturesqueness lent to London Municipal Life by its livery. Some of them may still want a
little reform, but for the most part their wealth is well spent.

But Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain were not only good country hosts. Nothing could have been more
pleasant or more interesting than their London dinners. The talk was always good and Mr. Chamberlain
was always the chief point of attraction. He was never cross, or moody, or depressed. Instead,
he was always ready to talk. You could put up any game with him and he would fly at it with
zest and spirit.

Time has not dimmed the warmth of my personal feeling either for Austen or Neville Chamberlain.
And here I want to say one word of regret in respect of Miss Beatrice Chamberlain,--her father's
eldest daughter who died during the first year of the Peace. She was a woman of great ability
and inherited no small share of her father's power of talk and fondness for social life. Highbury
house-parties owed much to her.

CHAPTER XXV

FIVE GREAT MEN (Continued)

It was at one of Mr. Chamberlain's house-parties that I first met one of the five distinguished
men who made a deep impression on my mind and so on my life. That man was Colonel John Hay,
some time Ambassador of the United States to this country. I shall never forget going down,
some thirty-two years ago, to Birmingham with my wife for a Saturday to Monday party, and finding
that the chief guest was the new American Ambassador. When one is young and going to a pleasant
house, there is nothing more delightful or stimulating than the moment of waiting at the side
of a country-house omnibus consecrated to station work and wondering who are to be one's fellow-guests.
On that occasion it was not long before we discovered that they were Colonel and Mrs. Hay and
their daughter Helen. It did not take one long to see what a memorable man Hay was. It was
indeed a case for me of friendship at first sight. Though it only took, even in pre-motor days,
some twenty minutes to drive to Highbury, I had become, long before we reached the front door,
a fervent admirer of the man who had been Private Secretary to the greatest man of modern times,--Abraham
Lincoln.

The acquaintance begun at Highbury ripened for both of us into a true friendship. I was deeply
touched to find that Mr. Hay met me half way in my desire to be friendly, for I knew enough
about him to know that his reputation was that of a very reticent, very fastidious man--a person
by no means inclined to fall into the arms of the first comer. But I don't want to flatter
myself. Perhaps the passport to Hay's heart in my case was my love of Lincoln, for that he
soon saw was real and not assumed. Anyway, Hay and I soon began to see a great deal of each
other, and he paid me the compliment of confiding in me throughout the war between Spain and
America. He would have liked to avoid that war and did his very best to do so, but I knew that
all the time he felt it was inevitable. I remember well his saying to me that the positions
of the United States and Spain were like two railway engines on the same track, neither of
which would give way and both of which were advancing. You might delay the collision, but you
could not prevent it, unless one train cleared out of the way of the other, and to this neither
side in control would agree. Therefore, a collision had to come,--and come it did.

Hay loved his tenure of office in England and greatly regretted that he had to accede to Mr.
McKinley's request that he should go back and become Secretary of State. He knew the work would
be too much for him, and told me so quite simply and unaffectedly, but he was never a man to
shirk a duty. During his term of office, he and I were constantly in touch with each other
by letter. Though Hay did not write long letters, he contrived in his short notes to say many
poignant things,--often in the form of comments on Spectator articles, for he was a diligent
reader of my paper. One example is so curious and so interesting that I must set it forth.
The War enables me to do so without any risk of doing injury in the diplomatic sphere. It concerns
the memorable visit of Prince Henry of Prussia to the United States in the year 1902.

The Kaiser was alarmed at the good feeling growing up between Britain and the United States.
He therefore made a special effort to capture American goodwill, largely in the hope of drawing
off American sympathy from this country. Accordingly he sent his sailor brother to American
to announce his august and Imperial satisfaction with the United States. The Americans--most
kindly of hosts--gave him the best possible reception. At that time Mr. Roosevelt was President,
and Hay was Secretary. Writing of Prince Henry's reception on March 1, 1902, The Spectator
pointed out what delightful hosts the Americans had proved and were proving, but went on to
express very grave doubt whether in the circumstances and with the men then at the helm, the
Kaiser would "cut any political ice" or gain any material advantage by the visit or by the
attempts at diplomatic bargaining sure to be connected with it. The article continued as follows:

  American photographers are taking "snapshots" of the
   Prince at every turn in his progress; but the snapshots we
   should like to see would be those of the President and Mr. Hay
   just before and just after the Prince had made some political
   request. They would hardly look, if our view of the American
   temperament is correct, like the faces of the same persons.
   The infinitely courteous hosts will in a moment become hard
   business men, thinking not of the pleasantest sentences to say,
   but of the permanent interests of the United States. Only
   the humour might linger a little in the eyes.

The article took some six days to get to America, but as soon as it was possible for a return
of comments I received from Hay the following characteristic and laconic note:

  Spectator, March 1, p. 317, 2nd Column,
   half-way down.

  My Dear Strachey,
   You are a mind reader.

  J. H.

I turned eagerly to the passage, for I could not at the moment recollect what we had said,
and found what I have given above. By a guess, or (shall I say?) by a piece of thought transference,
I had had the good luck to envisage exactly what had happened at Washington. Prince Henry was
not merely a social but a political bagman. He had asked for something. He wanted a tangible
"souvenir" of his visit. He had made proposals to the State Department of the usual Prussian
type. By "usual Prussian type," I mean that he had asked for concessions of territory and engagements
in which all the real, and most of the apparent, benefit was on the Prussian side. I do not
now remember their exact nature, though later I learned from Hay something of their general
scope and character. My only trustworthy recollection is that Hay referred to them with that
patient, well-bred disgust with which he always received overtures of this kind. He was a man
of a very fastidious sense of honour, and not amused by the low side of life, or by trickery
even when foiled. And here I may perhaps be allowed to interpolate another personal recollection.
I remember his telling me twenty years ago--that is, during the Spanish War--how the German
Ambassador in London had approached him officially with the request that a portion of the Philippine
Islands should be ceded--Heavens knows why--to the Kaiser. I can well recall his contemptuous
imitation of the manner of the request. "You haf so many islands; why could you not give us
some?" I asked Hay what he had replied. With a somewhat grim smile he answered: "I told him:
'Not an island--not one!'"

I shall perhaps be accused of indiscretion in what I have written, especially when I am dealing
with a man so discreet, so punctilious in all official intercourse, as John Hay. I feel, however,
that I am justified by the time which has elapsed, and by the events of the last few years.

I could fill, not one, but several chapters with the delightful talks about Lincoln which I
had with Mr. Hay. He was always at his best when talking about Lincoln. It must not be supposed,
however, that he was a man with one idea or that he was, as it were, eaten up by his great
chief. Hay was a true statesman and a man with clear and consistent views of his own. I had
the pleasure of bringing Hay into touch with Lord Cromer. Cromer was, of course, greatly impressed.
I remember pointing out to him that Hay was really the best illustration that he could have
had for one of his favourite theories,--that is, that the people who in their youth had been
private secretaries were, other things being equal, the best people to whom to give big appointments.
Cromer used to say that the reason for this was a very plain one. The difficulty with most
officials, and especially with men in the Army, was that they so often did not attain to positions
of real responsibility, and where they had to take the initiative, till their minds had been
atrophied by official routine and by the fact that they had simply carried out other people's
orders, and not to think or act for themselves. It was different with a young man who at the
most impressionable time of life had not only been under the influence of a great man, but
had seen great affairs absolutely at first hand and not dressed up in official memoranda. Again,
the Private Secretary saw the whole of them and not merely departmental fragments.

It was no doubt this fact which made Hay a great Ambassador and a great Secretary of State.
He had not only had the magnificent education which was received by the whole of Lincoln's
personal staff, the inspiration, intellectual, moral, and political, which a man like Lincoln
spreads around him, but he had seen at their very source the great affairs of home, war, and
foreign politics.

He had seen how great questions arise and how hard it is to settle them; how they go wrong
through accidents, or delay, or negligence, how necessary it is to prevent the rise of prejudice,
selfishness, and folly in their handling. In a word, there could not have been a better proof
of Lord Cromer's dictum than Hay's career. I remember talking on the general subject to Hay,
who in effect agreed, and later I also said the same thing to President Roosevelt. I told him
I thought it was a great pity that the Presidents of the United States and other holders of
great offices did not encourage young men of brains and also of great possessions, coming from
families with great influence, local or social, to become, when young, private secretaries.
There would be a double blessing produced thereby. It would help to bind men of wealth and
influence to the public service, and would get them trained to fill in later life the great
offices of State--Cabinet Ministers, Ambassadors, and special commissioners. If a young man
had been a member, say, of the President's official family for four or five years and had then
gone into business or even into leisure, he would, granted that he was a man of intelligence,
have received an insight into affairs which might be of great use to the nation later on. I
even went so far as to dream that the President of the United States and the Prime Minister
of Great Britain might have an occasional exchange of secretaries and so get a certain number
of people on both sides of the Atlantic who knew something about the arcana in each government.
As it is, both halves of the English-speaking race are apt to make official bogeys,--to spell
Washington or London as the case may be with a very big capital letter, and then to envisage
this impersonation as something dark, mysterious, or even terrible. How useful it would be
if, when this sort of talk was in the air, someone could say, "Honestly, they really are not
a bit like that (in Washington, or in London). You picture them as hard-shell Machiavellis
with sinister reasons for not answering our despatches or proposals promptly, or as going behind
our backs in this or that matter. Believe me, they are just about like what we are here. They
go out to lunch as we do; they forget big things and trifle with small things, and for fear
of their trivialities being exposed, they talk big as if they had some great and ruthless reasons
of state for their official misadventures. When you begin to ask, 'What are they up to? What
is their game?' the answer ninety-nine times out of a hundred is 'There is not any game at all.'"

Before I take leave of Hay, I want to add a fact which deeply touched me. It will be remembered
that the Secretary of State, after a breakdown in his health at Washington, came over to Europe
to try the Mannheim cure. The treatment at first seemed to do him good; but he was in truth
a broken man. So precarious, indeed, was his condition that, passing through London, the only
people he saw were Lord Lansdowne, then Foreign Minister, and King Edward VII. I was the only
exception. He asked me to come up and see him, telling me that I must not let it be known or
he would be killed with kindness. If I was deeply touched by his thought of me, I was still
more moved to see how extreme was his weakness of body. His mind, however, was as clear as
ever and he talked almost in his old way. He was the kind of man who was much too sensitive
to say in words, what I knew he felt--that it was good-bye. I came away from that last talk,
with my devotion to the man, high as it was before, greatly heightened.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though I did not know the Duke of Devonshire, earlier known as Lord Hartington, nearly so intimately
as the other four, I had for him a political admiration which was almost unbounded. When a
young man as was only natural--I was twenty-six when I first came into contact with him-- I
rather chafed at what I thought was his impenetrability. This, however, I soon discovered was
due to no want of intelligence, but partly to natural shyness, partly to his education, partly
to temperament, and partly also to a kind of dumbness of the mind, which is by no means inconsistent
with a real profundity of intellect.

It is this mental profundity which is the main thing to remember about the Duke of Devonshire.
To speak of him as if he were merely a man of character and firmness is to mistake him altogether.
The Duke impressed all who saw him at close quarters. It was only the people who did not know
him who said that he owed his rise to high office solely to his birth and wealth. I remember
Mr. Chamberlain once saying to me, "It's all nonsense to talk about Hartington being dull and
stupid. He is a very clever man." What made this admission all the more memorable was that
Mr. Chamberlain was at the moment in a condition of something like exasperation with his colleague's
dilatory ways, and his constitutional unwillingness to tackle a question till it was almost
too ripe; you simply could not hurry him. One of the difficult things about the Duke was that
he never realised the full greatness of his position in politics, how much people depended
on his lead, and how anxious they were to find out what he thought and then fellow him without
demur. But the more they wanted to get a lead out of him, the more he seemed determined to
avoid if he possibly could the responsibility they had asked him to assume, and partly because
of a certain lethargy of his mind, and partly because he never could be made to believe that
anybody could really want to lean upon and follow somebody else, he often appeared to be utterly
stubborn. I remember once, just before the election in 1905, urging him as strongly as I knew
how to make a public statement and to give a public lead to the Unionist Free Trade electors
as to how they should vote. He was more than loath to take my advice. He was all for letting
the thing alone. He actually went so far as to say, and remember, this was without the slightest
suggestion of pose, "I don't see why I should tell people what I should do if I had a vote.
They will do what they think right and I shall do what I think right. They don't want me to
interfere." It was no good to try and talk him round, as one would have been inclined to talk
round any ordinary politician, by pointing out how very flattering it was to him for people
to wait upon his words and to desire to follow him, or to paint in romantic language what he,
as a leader of men, owed to his followers. Anything of that sort was unthinkable with the Duke,
and, if it had been tried, would first of all have puzzled him utterly and when it had at last
dawned on him, would have put him off more than ever.

I could only repeat then that it was his duty to give people a lead and when I said this once
more I was met with the old tale that he would do what he thought right, and they--the voters--would
do what they thought right. But what was wonderful in the Duke about a matter of this kind
was that he did not in the least show any annoyance at being badgered by a man who was not
only so much younger than he was, but also of so much less experience in politics or affairs.

He was essentially a good-tempered man and had not a trace of amour propre in his nature. I
doubt if he had ever intentionally snubbed a man in his life, though, no doubt, he had often
done so unintentionally, for he was plain-spoken. He hated to hurt people's feelings, but he
sometimes thought that their feelings were like his own, quite iron- clad. I remember an example
of his imperturbability in this respect. Once, in the eagerness of pressing a plan of action
for the Unionist Free Traders, to which he was disinclined, I expressed the wish to propose
it to the Council of our group and see what they thought of it. He made no objection and I
gathered that he thought it could do no harm to have the matter aired, which, of course, was
all I desired. A day or two afterwards, however, the Duke casually and in the most good-humoured
way happened to say to me that I, of course, no doubt realised that if people assented to my
motion, he would have to resign as President of our Association. I was, horror-struck, for
to have lost him would have meant utter destruction for our movement,--the movement, that is,
to prevent the Tariff Reformers running away with the Unionist Party. I said at once that I
would most gladly withdraw my proposal, and expressed my complete confidence in his leadership.

He was delightfully naive about the whole matter and, here again, without any pose. He declared
that he did not see why I should not go on with my scheme if I really thought it was a good
one, and that he did not regard it as in the least hostile to himself. There was nothing in
it that was in the least personally objectionable to him.

At a much earlier period of my acquaintance with him the Duke gave another example of his good
nature and want of fussiness. When the split came in the Liberal party and the Liberal Unionist
organisation was created under his leadership and that of Mr. Chamberlain, I was chosen as
I have related elsewhere to act as Editor of the party organ, The Liberal Unionist. Each number
was to contain an article by some man of importance, so I naturally asked Lord Hartington,
as he then was, to supply the signed article for the first number. I was entirely new to the
task of editing, and the Duke had never, oddly enough, written anything before for publication,
though, of course, he had made plenty of speeches. The Duke was old-fashioned in his ways and
did not have a typewriter or a secretary, but wrote with his own hand. It was a very good handwriting,
but not quite printer-proof. Like all first numbers mine was late. The proofs of the Duke's
article were not sent out early enough, with the result that we had to go to press without
getting back a corrected proof from the Duke. The result was one or two bad misprints; the
Duke was not angry--only sad, for he thought it might make him look ridiculous. I was told,
however, by excited members of the Committee that I had made an awful blunder and must go and
apologise for so bad a beginning. Naturally, I was eager to express my regret, and went down
at once to the House of Commons and sent in for him. Now, as ill-luck would have it, he was
in the middle of an important debate on Home Rule and just on the point of rising to speak
when he received my message. However, in the kindest way he came out, to see, as he said, whether
he could do anything for me, and apologised most profusely for having kept me waiting for ten
or twelve minutes. It was not, indeed, till these apologies had been got over that I was able
to make my apologies, which he received in the most delightful way. If he had been a pompous
prig, he might so easily have lectured me (for I was not 26) on how important it was for a
young man just entering political life, etc., etc. Of course, he had no thought of making me
his special adherent by his good temper and easiness. Such things never entered his head. All
the same, his courtesy, consideration, and evident determination not to take advantage of my
slip, made a deep impression on me. A final example of the Duke's inability to realise that
it mattered to anybody else what he did was shown when he let Mr. Balfour, then Prime Minister,
persuade him to remain in the Unionist Ministry in 1905 when the rest of his Free Trade colleagues
resigned. I felt none of the amazement mixed with indignation felt by some of the Liberal Unionists,
because I knew my man, I felt, indeed, quite sure that what had happened was that the Duke
imagined that nobody would misunderstand him and that perhaps, as he said, it was a pity when
so many people were resigning that he should resign also. He wouldn't be missed and so why
should he not just remain where he was? I felt equally sure, however, that in a very little
time he would come to understand the importance of clearing up his position.

I was on manoeuvres and riding with the Hampshire Yeomanry at a great sham fight on the Wiltshire
downs, when I heard of the Cabinet crisis. I well remember that on a hill-top, which was finally
carried by our side, I met the present Lord Middleton, then Mr. St. John Broderick, Secretary
of State for War and learned from him what had happened. That night I went home to write on
the crisis. When I got home I said to my wife, "The Duke has not resigned, but it is all right.
I will write an article in The Spectator which, while perfectly sympathetic, will set forth
the situation in a way which will be certain to bring the Duke out." The result was as I expected.

I was interested some time afterwards to hear from one of his relatives that my article was
largely instrumental in determining him to follow his followers in the matter of resignation.
Almost the last time I saw the Duke of Devonshire affords another example of his good-nature,
of his plain-spokenness, of his humanity, and of his public spirit. I had always been, and
still am, deeply concerned in the housing question. We cannot be a really civilised nation
unless we can get good houses and cheap houses for the working-classes. Not being a philosopher,
I had always supposed that one way of getting good and cheap houses was to find some improved
form of construction. I have been informed, however, by my Socialist friends that this is an
entire mistake and that there are much better ways. Though admitting that this was possible,
and hoping that it might be, I was always inclined to add, though I made no converts,--"However
good the other scheme, cheap construction, granted it is also adequate construction, must be
a desirable premium upon any and every other scheme, financial or rhetorical, of getting good
houses." Therefore, I advocated and carried out by the joint action of The Spectator and another
paper I then owned, The County Gentleman, a scheme for an exhibition of good cottages, in which
a prize was given for the best cottage. The novelty of my plan was that the exhibits were not
to be models of cottages, but were to be real cottages. The Garden City were almost as glad
to lend me their ground as I was to avail myself of it, and by a well thought out arrangement
we were able, as it were, to endow the Garden City with some L20,000 worth of good cottages
without their having to put their hands into their pockets. It was quite easy to guarantee
to find purchasers or hirers of the cottages put up by competitors. The competitor, therefore,
could not lose his money or tie it up for very long, and he was very likely able to win a prize
in one of the various categories. The greater number of cottages were planned for competitions
in which the cost was limited to L150, for that was my ideal of the price for a cottage; and
if a competitor was sure to get his L150 back and might also get a prize either of L150, or
L100, or L50, he was in clover.  But I am not out to describe the success of the Cheap Cottages
Exhibition, but only to throw light on the character of the Duke of Devonshire. I asked the
Duke to open the Exhibition for me, and this he did in a speech full of excellent good sense.
He obeyed ex animo my direction of "No flowers by request." I remember, however, being somewhat
disconcerted as we went down in the special train by a remark which he made to one of the Directors
of the Garden City, who was saying, very properly, the usual things about how pleased the Company
had been to help with my scheme. The Duke, with a loud laugh, replied with what was meant to
be a perfectly good-tempered joke, "And a jolly good advertisement for your company you must
have found it. Ha! Ha!" The Director, as was perhaps not to be wondered at, looked somewhat
flabbergasted at this sally. Fortunately, I overheard it and was able to prevent any risk of
wounded feelings by explaining how helping to spread information in regard to the good work
being done by the Garden City was a thing which I and those who were helping me were specially
glad to do. If we had been able to provide a useful advertisement for the Company we should
feel almost as well pleased as by the success of our own venture. The Duke at once fully assented,
but I don't think he in the least realised that his original way of putting the remark might
easily have given umbrage. If it had been said to him and not by him it would not have caused
any annoyance and he no doubt assumed that other people would feel as simply and as naturally
as he did.

It would be impossible to give any account of the Duke and his character and actions without
noticing his devotion to the Turf. It was that devotion which made Lord Salisbury once say
with humorous despair that he could not hold a most important meeting "because it appears that
Hartington must be at Newmarket on that day to see whether one quadruped could run a little
faster than another." The Duke was quite sincere in his love of racing. There was no pose about
it. He did not race because he thought it his duty to encourage the great sport, or because
he thought it would make him popular, or for any other outside reason. He kept racers and went
to races because he loved to see his horses run, though oddly enough I don't think he was ever
a great man across country, or was learned in matters of breeding and trainers. He just liked
racing and so he practised it and that is all that is to be said about it.  In this combination
of sport and high political seriousness he was extraordinarily English. Pope described the
Duke's attitude exactly in his celebrated character of Godolphin; the words fit the Duke of
Devonshire absolutely. They may well serve as a peroration to this chapter.

  Who would not praise Patricio's high desert,
   His hand unstained, his uncorrupted heart,
   His comprehensive head! all interests weigh'd,
   All Europe sav'd, yet Britain not betray'd?
   He thanks you not,--his pride is in piquet,
   Newmarket fame, and judgment at a bet.

But I am dwelling too much on the picturesque side of the Duke and so getting too near the
caricature view of the man. What I want is to give in little a true picture of a really great
man, for that is what he in truth was.

Instead of tracing the Duke's political actions and political opinions, I prefer to attempt
an analysis of his political character. The first and most obvious fact about the Duke was
his independence, and what I may call his inevitableness of action. Knowing the Duke's views
on a particular subject, you could always tell in any given circumstance what would be his
line of conduct. With most politicians explanations have to be found at some point of their
career for this or that action. Everything seemed to point to their taking a particular course,
and yet they took another. In the case of one man this was due to influence exerted over him
by a friend. In that of another it was due to hostility to some colleague or rival. The personal
element deflected the course of history. In the case of the Duke of Devonshire such explanations
are unthinkable. It is impossible to imagine him a Home-ruler out of devotion to Mr. Gladstone,
or a Free-trader out of jealousy or distrust of Mr. Chamberlain. The Duke had no dislikes or
prejudices of this kind. Certainly he had none in the case of Mr. Chamberlain. All the efforts
of the Tapers and Tadpoles and paragraph-writers in the Press failed to produce the slightest
sense of rivalry between them. The Duke, to use a racing phrase, went exclusively on men's
public form, and gave his contemporaries credit for the same public spirit which he himself showed.

He was the last man in the world to think that he had a monopoly of patriotism. His high-mindedness
was, he assumed, shared by others. He never betrayed a colleague, and he never thought it possible
that a colleague could think of betraying him. The result was that throughout his career he
was never once the victim of any intrigue or conspiracy. He kept his mind fixed always on questions
and not on men, and just as he always endeavoured to solve the real problem at issue rather
than secure a party triumph, so his aim was to bring advantage to the nation, not to gain a
victory over an opponent. I should be the last to say that in this the Duke of Devonshire was
unique. What, however, was unique about his position was the fact that no one ever attributed
to him unworthy motives or insinuated that he was playing for his own hand. If any one had
ventured to do so, the country would simply have regarded the accuser as mad.

Another striking quality possessed by the Duke of Devonshire was his absolute straightforwardness
of conduct and clearness of language. No one ever felt that he had a "card up his sleeve."
He told the country straight out exactly what he thought, and his reticence--for reticent he
was in a high degree--was due, not to the fact that he did not think it advisable at the moment
to let the country know what he was thinking, but simply and solely to the fact that he had
not been able to come to a determination. He did not like meeting questions half-way, but waited
till circumstances forced them on his attention.

The late Duke of Argyll once said of him at a public meeting: "Oh, gentlemen, what a comfort
it is to have a leader who says what he means and means you to understand what he says." Here
in a nutshell was the quality which the country most admired in the Duke of Devonshire. They
always knew exactly what he stood for, and whether he was a Unionist or a Home-ruler, a Free-trader
or a Protectionist. He was never seeking for a safe point to rest on, one which, in the immortal
language of the politician in the Biglow Papers, would leave him "frontin' south by north."

In spite of the independence, straightforwardness, and clearness of the Duke's attitude, he
often showed a curious diffidence, and seemed unable to realise that he had so absolutely the
confidence of the country that no explanations were ever necessary in his case. For example,
after the secession of the Unionist Free-traders from Mr. Balfour's Administration spoken of
above, the Duke thought it necessary to explain--in his place in the House of Lords--how it
was that he remained for a few days longer in the Cabinet than did his Unionist Free-trade
colleagues. I have reason to know that the Duke found such an explanation a painful and trying
one to make. Nevertheless he insisted on making it, and this though on the day he spoke he
was suffering from the beginnings of a severe attack of influenza. It will be remembered that
he then declared, with a sincerity which in one sense deeply touched, and in another sense
might almost be said to have amused, the nation, that his mind was not so clear as it ought
to have been during his negotiations with Mr. Balfour, and that he had not at first completely
grasped the situation. As a matter of fact, is it safe to say that no one, least of all his
Unionist Free-trade colleagues, thought there was the slightest need for such an apology. If
the thought of the nation on that occasion could have been put into words, it would have run
something like this:--"There was not the least reason for you to say what you have said. Every
one recognised that you would in the end do exactly what you did--that is, leave the Ministry--and
the fact that you took four or five days longer than your colleagues to realise that this was
inevitable was looked on as the most natural thing in the world. It was a proof to the British
people as a whole that a Free-trader could do nothing else. If you had acted as quickly as
others, it might possibly have been thought that there was something not absolutely necessary
in your action."

The Duke of Devonshire was often spoken of as a great aristocrat and as a representative of
the aristocratic interests in the country. Nothing, however, could have been further from the
truth. Though no doubt the Duke was in a sense intensely proud of being a Cavendish, and though
he felt in his heart of hearts very strongly the duty of noblesse oblige, he had nothing of
that temperament which people usually mean when they use the word "aristocrat." He was the
last man in the world whom one could associate with the idea of the noble who springs upon
a prancing war-steed, either real or metaphorical, and waves his sword in the air. His represented
rather what might be called the old-fashioned English temperament, the possessors of which
in effect say to the world:--"I'll mind my own business, and you mind yours. You respect me,
and I'll respect you. You stand by me, and I'll stand by you; and when we have both done our
duty to ourselves and each other, for heaven's sake don't let us have any d----d nonsense about
it."

But though this is true in a sense, one would lose touch altogether with the Duke's character
if one insisted on it too much, or gave the impression that the Duke's nature was one of surly
defiance such as Goldsmith describes in the famous line on the Briton in The Traveller. No
doubt one of his colleagues, Robert Lowe, once said of him: "What I like about Hartington is
his 'you-be-damnedness.'" But though this element was not wanting in the Duke's character,
it did not in any way prevent him from being at heart as kindly, as sympathetic, and as courteous
as he was reasonable, straightforward, and plain- spoken.

One may strive as one will to draw the character of the Duke, but in the end one comes back
to the plain fact that he was a great public servant,--one who served, not because he liked
service for its own sake or for the rewards it brought in sympathy and public applause, but
solely because he was mastered by the notion of duty and by the sense that, like every other
Englishman, he owed the State a debt which must be paid. Pope said of one of his ancestors
that he cared not to be great except only in that he might "save and serve the State." That
was exactly true of the late Duke of Devonshire.

This tradition of public service is one which has long been associated with the house of Cavendish,
and it is cause for national congratulation to think that there is no risk of that tradition
being broken. The present Duke possesses the high character and the sense of public duty which
distinguished his predecessor. It may safely be predicted of him that the ideals of public
duty maintained by his uncle will not suffer in his keeping.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the five great figures in England and America, who were known to me and who are dead, I
find by far my greatest difficulty in writing about Theodore Roosevelt. Though I saw very much
less of him than I did of Lord Cromer, my feeling of regret at his death was specially poignant.
Mr. Roosevelt was almost my exact contemporary. Therefore, I could look forward, and did look
forward, to enjoying his friendship for many years to come. Lord Cromer was ten or fifteen
years my senior, and, though my intimacy with him was of the very closest, far closer than
that which I enjoyed with Mr. Roosevelt, I did not feel myself on the same plane with him.
To put the matter specifically, Lord Cromer was engaged in most important and most responsible
public work when I was little more than a child, and by the time I left Oxford he had already
finished the first three or four years of his great task in Egypt. Again, when Roosevelt's
death came, it came without warning. I did not know that his health had in any way been failing.

Roosevelt and I were always so much in accord and our friendship through the post was of so
intimate a kind that I am sometimes amazed when I think of the comparatively small number of
days, or rather hours, that I actually passed in his company. For several years before I saw
him in the flesh I had exchanged constant letters with him, and so much did he reveal himself
in them that, when we did meet, he appeared to me exactly the man I had envisaged. Naturally
I wondered greatly whether this would be so, and took a strict inquisition of the impression
made on me in seeing him face to face. In similar cases, one almost always finds surprises
in minor, if not in major, differences; but Roosevelt needed no re-writing on the tablets of
my mind.

I shall never forget my visit to the White House. If I had slept under that roof alone, and
without any guide or interpreter, I should have been deeply moved. My readers then may imagine
what my feelings were when I, who had read and thought so much of Lincoln, found that my dressing-room
was the little sanctum upstairs into which Lincoln, in the crises of the war, used to retire
for consultation with his Generals, Ministers, and intimate friends. At that time the ground
floor of the White House, other than the great ceremonial rooms, had been almost entirely absorbed
by the various officials connected with the Presidency.

Our train from New York was nearly an hour late, and, therefore, when we arrived, we had only
bare time to dress for dinner. Yet when we reached the room where guests assembled before dinner
we found the President alone. Though it was through no fault of ours that we were late, my
wife had fully realised the necessity of being down in time. Dinner was if I remember rightly
at eight, and we were shaking hands with the President by five minutes to.

I have already described how Lord Cromer at first sight showed himself willing to tell me everything
and to trust wholly to the discretion of his visitor. Mr. Roosevelt exhibited an equal confidence.
In the long talk which I had with him on my first evening at the White House, throughout the
Sunday and during a long ride on the Monday, in pouring rain on a darkish November evening,
we talked of everything under the sun, and had our talk out. Mr. Roosevelt was one of those
very busy men who somehow contrive to have time for full discussion. After breakfast on the
Monday morning,--we did not move to other quarters in Washington, till late on the Monday,--Mr.
Roosevelt asked me whether I would like to see how he got through his work. I accepted with
avidity. Accordingly we went from the White House to the President's office, which had been
built, under Mr. Roosevelt's directions, in the garden and was just finished. We first went
into Mr. Roosevelt's special room. There he put me in a window seat and said I was quite free
to listen to the various discussions which he was about to have with Cabinet Ministers, Judges,
Ambassadors, Generals, Admirals, Senators, and Congressmen.

It was very remarkable to see the way in which he managed his interlocutors,--who by the way
apparently took me either for a private secretary or else as part of the furniture! I recall
the clever manner in which Mr. Roosevelt talked to an Ambassador, and kept him off thorny questions,
and yet got rid of him so skilfully that his dismissal looked like a special act of courtesy.
The interview with a leading Western or Southern Senator, who had got some cause of complaint,
I forget what, was equally courteous and dexterous, though the President's attitude here was,
of course, perfectly different. Roosevelt was a man, for all his downrightness, of great natural
dignity and of high breeding, though he had the good sense never, as it were, to affiché this
good breeding to any man who might have misunderstood it and thought that he was being patronised.
In this case the Senator was a self-made man, who would, no doubt, have been suspicious if
he had been talked to in the voice and language used for the Ambassador. Mr. Roosevelt had
no difficulty whatever in making his change of manners as quick as it was complete. A Judge
of the Supreme Court, who came for a short talk, demanded yet a third style and got it, as
did also one of the members of the President's Cabinet.

"The President's Cabinet" remember, is not only a piece of official style. It represents a
fact. The American Cabinet Ministers are not responsible to Congress, as ours are to Parliament,
but are the nominees of the President and responsible only to him. In a word, they are "the
President's Cabinet." Communications between them and the House of Representatives and the
Senate come always theoretically, and largely actually, through the President.

After an hour, or rather more, had been spent in these interviews, the President took me into
another room, which was the Cabinet Room, and very soon the Members of the Administration began
to assemble and to take their seats round the big table in the centre. I felt as the children
say, that this was getting "warm." Even though I had the President's general leave to stop,
I thought I had better not take advantage of it. As soon as I saw my friend Colonel Hay enter,
I went up to him and asked him whether he did not think that though I had been honoured by
the President's invitation, I had better not remain during the Cabinet. I could see that this
relieved him not a little. Though devoted to Roosevelt, he was a little inclined to think that
the President's ways were sometimes too unconventional. Therefore, I slipped quietly out of
the room.

It is amusing to recall that when at luncheon, I apologised half whimsically for my desertion,
Mr. Roosevelt told me that I had acted "with perfect tact." Anyway, I look back to the incident
with interest. I hold that I probably got nearer to seeing the United States Cabinet actually
at work than do most people. Business had actually begun before I completed my retreat.

I won the approval of the President not only for my discretion here, but, as I afterwards found
out, for my complete willingness, nay, pleasure, in going out for a ride with him in a flood
of rain on a dark November evening. That was not a very great feat, but apparently some of
his visitors had shown themselves anything but happy in such rides. He was indeed inclined
to use his afternoon winter rides as a test of men. Accustomed, however, as I was to the English
climate and always, not only willing, but intensely eager to get on the back of a horse, it
never occurred to me to think that our ride would either be put off because it poured or its
accomplishment counted to me for righteousness.

Certainly it was a curious kind of ride. I was mounted on a superb Kentucky horse procured
for me from the Cavalry Barracks--a creature whose strength and speed proved how well deserved
is the reputation of that famous breed. We were a party of four, with General Wood and a young
aide-de-camp. No sooner were we mounted--I on a McClellan saddle-- than we set off at a fast
pace which very soon became a gallop. I remember, as we dashed through the rain on the hard
pavements, thinking that our horses' hooves sounded like an elopement on the stage--"heard
off". The lovers' ardour is usually marked by the vivid manner in which their horses wake the
thunders of the King's highway.

We crossed the well-known creek or torrent in the park near the city, which meant putting our
horses through a fairly swift and broad though not deep stream, and then passed through what
had once been a largish plantation. The trees had, however, been cut down a year or two before.
This we negotiated at a gallop, the President leading. I admit that it was an exciting performance.
Not only was it almost dark when we reached the wood or ex-wood, but the wood-cutters had left
the stumps of innumerable small trees or saplings, standing up about six inches from the ground.
You could hardly imagine anything better devised for catching a horse's foot. But even worse
than the risk of a horse stumbling over a stump, was the thought of his putting his hoof down
on one of the more sharply pointed stumps, often not more than the thickness of a big walking
stick. It would have pierced like a spear.

However, I felt that the honour of my country and of my profession as a journalist were at
stake. Therefore, I made my horse, who was not at all unwilling, keep well alongside the President.
Under such conditions steering was impossible; and we galloped along at haphazard. I was consoled
to feel that if the President's horse could pick his way, mine could probably do the same.
As it happened nobody's horse made a blunder, and we all four emerged quite safely from the
ordeal and soon turned homeward, but by a different way. Our pace, however, did not slacken.
We galloped along a main thoroughfare, which was not made safer by tram lines. All the same
I thoroughly enjoyed myself, and was proud to bring my big horse of nearly seventeen hands
home without a slip. It was in truth a delightful experience. My horse proved well able to
keep up with the President's very fine charger--needless to say, I knew enough to know that
one does not attempt to out-ride persons in the position of sovereigns--and we talked as hard
as we rode, for a whole hour without interruption.

The President's remark as we dismounted was characteristic,--"Don't you think, Strachey. I
am quite right, as I can only get an hour's exercise a day, to go while I am at it, as hard
as I can?" That remark was really meant as a kind of rebound argument for General Wood.

I assured the President in the enthusiasm of the moment that he was perfectly right, but General
Wood in a ride, which I subsequently took with him, shook his head over the President's way
of galloping fast on the hard roads and declared that he shook his horse's legs all to pieces.
Some day there would be an accident. "I try to get him to give up the practice but I am afraid
I don't have much success, though he takes it very well. No, he's not a careful rider!"--a
comment, by the way, which I had so often heard about myself that it sounded quite familiar.
Need I add that this was anxious affection on the part of General Wood, one of the ablest of
military and civil administrators alive today--and a man whom I am proud to say has honoured
me with a friendship as warm and as generous as that of his great Chief and friend.

Some day my correspondence with Mr. Roosevelt will, I hope, see the light; but not yet. The
President's powers in the matter of letter writing, however, deserve a special comment. He
was probably one of the greatest letter writers in the matter of quantity who ever lived. He
was also high up in quality. He liked letter writing, and he certainly expressed himself not
only with vigour but with ease and distinction. If not a faultless writer, he wrote well enough
for his purpose, and showed his largeness and fineness of character. Though a well-educated
man, with a strong tradition of culture behind him, and, further, with a very marked love of
good literature, he was too busy and too practical to find time to turn or tune his phrases.
His letters are very readable and from many points of view very attractive, but they do not
possess the kind of fascination which belongs to the correspondence of some of the elder statesmen
of England or America--the kind of fascination which we may feel sure will be exercised whenever
Lord Rosebery's letters are given to the world--may the event be a long way off. Finally, they
have not that inspiration in word and thought of which the history of personal and political
correspondence affords us its best example in the letters of Abraham Lincoln.

One of the delightful things about Roosevelt's correspondence is, that he touched life at so
many sides. He struck the hand of a great gentleman, a great statesman, and, in the best sense,
a man of the world, into the hands not only of kings and emperors, ministers and soldiers,
but of authors, poets, artists, men of science, explorers, naturalists, and last, but not least,
of men of action in all ranks of life. He attained to this freedom of the Great World early
in life. He had in effect that singular advantage which belongs to kings. For twenty years
of his life at least he had always at his command the best brains in the world. He had only
to make a sign to get en rapport with the man who knew most on the subject that was interesting
him. Besides this, as his Biographer, Mr. Bishop, has pointed out, Roosevelt had the essential
mark of a great man. Emerson truly said, "He is great who never reminds us of others." Certainly
Roosevelt stood alone. Though he touched many men of the Old World and the New, and of the
old age and the new, he was intensely individual.

As to his personal characteristic. One of the most memorable of his personal characteristics
was that, in spite of the fierce conflicts of his political life, no one ever seriously accused
him of a mean or ignoble act. Though, not professing to be a political saint, he ran as straight
as any statesman of whom we have record. Not Pitt nor Lord Grey here, nor Washington nor Lincoln
in America, had a finer sense of honour and of political rectitude. He preached the square
deal; he practised it.

To do that in party politics and with a democracy so vast and so full of cross-currents and
stormy elements as that of America is not nearly as easy as it sounds. Roosevelt was of course
no plaster saint. He dared to look at life as a whole, and without its trappings and disguises,
and yet all the time he made men feel that it was not only right but quite possible, in Burke's
phrase, "to remember so to be a patriot as not to forget that you are a gentleman."

I shall not touch upon Mr. Roosevelt's political views or political acts. They are too well
known for comment. Nor, again, is there, I am glad to say, any necessity to make clear in these
pages how strong was the sympathy between Roosevelt and the English people, and how anxious
he was to keep together the whole of the English-speaking race,--not, of course, by any sort
of alliance, but by mutual understanding, and through adherence to common aims and common ideals.

These things are public property. What I would rather dwell upon is a certain boldness of attitude
in which Roosevelt set a wonderful example to the leaders of a democracy. Though Mr. Roosevelt
was in many ways an exceedingly astute and practical politician, he was not the least awed
by rumour, not the least afraid of touching questions because they were thorny. His attitude
towards Labour when questions of public order were involved, is well shown in the letter to
Senator Lodge in which Roosevelt gives an account of a visit which he paid to Chicago during
a strike, accompanied by disorder in the streets.

  When I came to Chicago I found a very ugly strike, on
   account of which some of my nervous friends wished me to try
   to avoid the city. Of course I hadn't the slightest intention
   of doing so. I get very much puzzled at times on questions of
   finance and the tariff, but when it comes to such a perfectly
   simple matter as keeping order, then you strike my long suit.
   The strikers were foolish enough to come to me on their own
   initiative and make me an address in which they quoted that
   fine flower of Massachusetts statesmanship, the lamented
   Benjamin F. Butler, who had told rioters at one time, as it
   appeared, that they need have no fear of the United States
   Army, as they had torches and arms. This gave me a good
   opening, and while perfectly polite, I used language so simple
   that they could not misunderstand it; and repeated the same
   with amplifications at the dinner that night. So if the rioting
   in Chicago gets beyond the control of the State and the City,
   they now know well that the Regulars will come.

Commenting on the President's visit to Chicago, Mr. Secretary Hay said: "It requires no courage
to attack wealth and power, but to remind the masses that they, too, are subject to the law,
is something few public men dare to do." That of course is perfectly true. But it is equally
true that when a public man does dare speak the truth it always turns out to be the best and
most paying policy that he could have adopted. Roosevelt did not lose popularity with the mass
of his countrymen but gained it by his honesty.

Another example of Roosevelt's political honesty was the way in which he treated the question
of negro-lynching in the South. This is delicate ground, and as I have been accused by a Southern
newspaper most absurdly, as I am certain all reasonable Americans will agree, of attacking
America and the American people because in The Spectator I have spoken out in regard to lynching,
I will quote without comment the account of Roosevelt's plain speaking, given by Mr. Bishop:

  The President gave another illustration of his courage in
   October, 1905, when he made a tour of the South, speaking at
   various points in Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, Arkansas,
   and Alabama, including a visit to the home of his mother at
   Roswell, Georgia. At Little Rock, Arkansas, on October 25th,
   he was introduced by the Governor of the State to a large
   concourse of citizens in the City Park. In his introductory
   remarks, the Governor made a quasi defence of the lynching
   of coloured men for supposed outrages upon white women.
   In opening his speech the President declared that he had been
   fortunate enough to have spoken all over the Union and had
   never said in any State or any section what he would not have
   said in any other State or in any other section. Turning a few
   minutes later directly to the Governor, he said: "Governor,
   you spoke of a hideous crime that is often hideously avenged.
   The worst enemy of the negro race is the negro criminal, and,
   above all, the negro criminal of that type; for he has
   committed not only an unspeakably dreadful and infamous crime
   against the victim, but he has committed a hideous crime
   against the people of his own colour; and every reputable
   coloured man, every coloured man who wishes to see the uplifting
   of his race, owes it as his first duty to himself and to
   that race to hunt down that criminal with all his soul and
   strength. Now for the side of the white man. To avenge
   one hideous crime by another hideous crime is to reduce the
   man doing it to the bestial level of the wretch who committed
   the bestial crime. The horrible effects of the lynchings are
   not for that crime at all, but for other crimes. And above
   all other men, Governor, you and I and all who are exponents
   and representatives of the law, owe it to our people, owe it to
   the cause of civilisation and humanity, to do everything in our
   power, and unofficially, directly and indirectly, to free the
   United States from the menace and reproach of lynch law."

I have never gone, and do not want to go, one hairs-breadth beyond what Mr. Roosevelt said
in condemnation of the lynchers. Further, I fully realise that the best men in the South detest
lynching and are as anxious to put down lynching as indeed were the best men in the South to
get rid of slavery. I want, however, to say with Roosevelt that whatever else is right, and
whatever ought to be the relations between white men and black, lynching must be wrong, and
must tend to make the difficulties of a mixed population even greater than they were already.
Whatever may be the vices of the black man, burning negroes alive at the mandate of an irresponsible
mob, who are acting on rumour and hearsay, cannot but be the very acme of human depravity.
And it is as stupid as it is wicked.

Though there was a distinct strain of austerity as well as authoritativeness in Mr. Roosevelt's
nature, there was also a deep strain of sentiment. He was a man easily moved, not only by "the
sense of tears in mortal things," but by all that was generous and noble. A delightful example
of how deeply and quickly his feelings could be touched when a child is given by Mrs. Douglas
Robinson, his sister, in the account of her brother.

The Roosevelt family were in Rome at the end of the "sixties" and played, like other English-speaking
children, on the Pincian Hill. While they were playing at leapfrog word was suddenly passed
round that the Pope was coming.

  "Teddie" whispered to the little group of American children
   that he didn't believe in Popes--that no real American would;
   and we all felt it was due to the stars and stripes that we
   should share his attitude of distant disapproval. But then,
   as is often the case, the miracle happened, for the crowd parted,
   and to our excited, childish eyes something very much like a
   scene in a story-book took place. The Pope, who was in his
   sedan-chair carried by bearers in beautiful costumes, his
   benign face framed in white hair and the close cap which he
   wore, caught sight of the group of eager little children craning
   their necks to see him pass; and he smiled and put out one
   fragile, delicate hand towards us, and lo! the late scoffer who,
   in spite of the ardent Americanism that burned in his eleven-year-old
   soul, had as much reverence as militant patriotism in
   his nature, fell upon his knees, and kissed the delicate hand,
   which for a brief moment was laid upon his hair. Whenever
   I think of Rome this memory comes back to me, and in a way
   it was so true to the character of my brother. The Pope to
   him had always meant what later he would have called "unwarranted
   superstition," but that Pope, Pio Nono, the kindly,
   benign old man, the moment he appeared in the flesh, brought
   about in my brother's heart the reaction which always came
   when the pure, the good, or the true crossed his path.

That is almost as good a papal story as that of the Pope whom the great Napoleon brought a
virtual captive from the Vatican to grace his coronation as Emperor. The Pope, while moving
about Paris, was accustomed to give his blessing freely, for he soon became a very popular
character. It happened, however, that one day, while going through the galleries of the Louvre,
he unwittingly gave his blessing to a little crowd that contained a fierce, anti-clerical Jacobin
and revolutionary. The man showed the greatest disgust and contempt at receiving the Pope's
blessing, and retorted with curses on the man who dared implore for him Heaven's grace and
favour. The Pope, with his Italian grace and good manners, easily got the best of the scowling
brows and the muttered imprecations. He apologised simply and humbly to the man whom he had
blessed by mistake and added, "I do not think, sir, that after all an old man's blessing can
have done you any harm." Quite as little could Roosevelt's boyish kiss make him a votary to
superstition.

I feel for the reasons that I have already given that I am not managing to express my personal
feeling about Roosevelt. Yet he is the last man of whom I want to write perfunctorily or even
ceremoniously. Therefore, for the time I shall bring my recollections of him to a close by
merely noting certain characteristics of the statesman.

The essential quality in Roosevelt was the spirit of good citizenship. He was a very able politician
and party leader. He was also no mean orator in a nation where the arts of the rostrum are
specially cultivated and understood. He was a skilled and powerful administrator. He had a
soldier's eye for country and a soldier's heart. What is more, he understood the soldier's
spirit as well as did Cromwell. Though a strict disciplinarian, he knew that if you are to
get the best out of a soldier, you must make him feel a free citizen and not a fighting slave.
Roosevelt, again, was a man highly qualified to be the personal representative and head of
a great nation. He had the dignity of demeanour, the sense of proportion, the knowledge of
the world, the instinct for great affairs, together with that universality of comprehension
which is necessary to the efficient discharge of high office.

Yet, great as was Roosevelt in all these matters, it was not so much the qualities just enumerated
which make, and will continue to make, his memory live in America. Others could rival him or
surpass him on the political stage. He made good citizenship an art. He never tired in enforcing
by precept and example the duty which men and women owe to the community. No man, as his life
and work showed, can be allowed to keep his good citizenship in watertight compartments. He
must not say that he had done his best in his district or city or State, or at Washington,
and that no more was to be required of him. He must do his duty to the State in all capacities.
Duty accomplished in one sphere would not relieve him of responsibility in the others.

Though Roosevelt was a Whig, an individualist, and a man who hated over- centralisation, abhorred
administrative tyranny, and loathed Etatism, he never failed to pay due homage to the nation
personified. To him the Government as representing the community, was something sacred and
revered, not merely a committee to manage tram- lines, roads, and drains. Treason to the State
was to him the greatest of crimes. When he talked of the National Honour, he meant something
very real and definite, and was not merely indulging in a rhetorical flourish. Good citizenship
was indeed to Roosevelt a religion, as in a rougher and less conscious way it was to Cromwell
and to Lincoln.

CHAPTER XXVI

MY POLITICAL OPINIONS

Though I have been engaged in politics all my life, I have deliberately left my political views,
aspirations, and actions to almost the last chapter in my autobiography. That will seem strange
to all except my most intimate friends, for I know well that the majority of people who know
anything of me regard me as altogether given over to politics.

My reason for assigning so small a place in my memoirs to what has occupied so much of my life
is a double one. In the first place, I was most anxious not be polemical. Politics are synonymous
with strife, and if I had written a political biography, it would have become the record of
a battle, or rather, of many battles, in which I could hardly have avoided saying hard things
both of living and dead people. But that was what I most wanted to avoid. The veteran who tells
of his old fights is always apt to become a bore. People who disagree with the view put forth
think him prejudiced and unforgiving, while those who are with him yawn over a twice-told tale.
Further, though I confess to being as deeply interested and as deeply concerned in politics
as ever, I have greatly enjoyed a rest from strife. To suffer my mind to turn upon the poles
of literature and the humanities is a pure delight. No doubt Marcus Aurelius in his autobiography
says that life is more like a wrestling- match than a dance. That was like a Stoic. Instead,
I can say ex animo with Mrs. Gamp, "Them that has other natures may think different! They was
born so and can please themselves." Therefore, I have chosen the point of view of the dance
rather than the dust, the oil, and the sweat of the athlete.

But though I do not want to fight my political battles over again, either in regard to Home
Rule or the fiscal controversy, I realise that my readers will, at any rate, expect me to say
something about my political views. Further than that, there are one or two things which, if
unsaid, would undoubtedly give a false impression of the writer of this book.

The pivot of my politics is a whole-hearted belief in the principles of Democracy. I mean by
this, not devotion to certain abstract principles or views of communal life which have had
placed upon them the label "Democratic," but a belief in the justice, the convenience, and
the necessity of ascertaining and loyally abiding by the lawfully-expressed Will of the Majority
of the People. By using the phrase "lawfully expressed" I do not mean to suggest any pretext
for evasion. On the contrary, I use the words in order to prevent and avoid evasion. A good
many people who call themselves Democrats, or believers in the Popular Will, such, for example,
as the leaders of the French Revolution, the apologists for the Russian Soviet, and the men
from whose lips the words "Proletariat" and "Proletarian" are constantly falling, do not, when
it comes to the point, want to obey the Will of the Majority of the whole People, but only
the majority of a certain arbitrarily selected section of the people. They are, in fact, willing
to recognise the Will of the People only when this accords with their own will--that is, with
what they believe ought to be the Will of the People. When I use the expression "the Will of
the People lawfully and constitutionally expressed," I use it to avoid this false democracy.

To put it quite frankly, I am willing to bow to the maxim, "Vox populi, vox Dei" as long as
the "vox populi" is the genuine thing and not obtained by falsity or fraud, by corruption or
coercion.

Though I am prepared to bow loyally to the Will of the People, whether I personally agree with
it or not, I, of course, have a right, nay, a duty, to do my best to bring the Will of the
People in accord with what I hold to be right, just, and likely to promote the welfare of the
nation. I retain, that is, the right to convert, if I can, a minority view into a majority
view. If any section of the people try to prevent me from exercising this right of conversion,
then I believe that the sacred right of insurrection arises.

It is possible that it arises also in the attempt to prevent me from exercising the rights
of conscience, that is, the right to think and to express my views. The rights of conscience
are not, in my opinion, pooled and placed at the command of the majority, as are the actions
and behaviour of the units that make up the State. The Will of the People even cannot command
the minds of men and women. That region is under an eternal taboo, which even the majority
must not attempt to violate. If they do make the attempt, they must expect resistance. Christ
taught us to "render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's," but a man's conscience is not
one of Caesar's perquisites.

So much for the abstract basis of Democracy. Of the convenience of following out and obeying
the Democratic principle I have as little doubt as I have of the moral obligation involved.
What, in my view, is wanted in the State is homogeneity. Such homogeneity, or, shall I call
it completeness of the admixture of the elements which constitute the State, is essential.
The fullest and strongest sanction for the laws is the security of a State, and where can you
get a sanction fuller and stronger than the Will of the Majority?

The point is best seen in a simple illustration. Suppose that among seven people in a railway
carriage the question arises as to whether the window is to be put up or down. As it must be
settled one way or the other, if order is to be preserved, the only just way is to go by the
Will of the Majority. If five people want it shut and only two want it open, the will of the
five must prevail. That, of course, does not prove that the five have given a sound decision
from the hygienic point of view. They have, however, come to a settlement, and it is obvious
that the maximum of convenience rests in respecting that settlement. It has the superior physical
power behind it. If, however, any gentleman or lady in the carriage can give a discourse upon
the advantage of fresh air, which will bring over three of those who originally voted in the
majority, then the policy can be changed.

With these views, it is no wonder that I have always found it impossible to feel much sympathy
with the people who say that Democracy is on its trial and must be judged, like any other form
of government, by its results. This either means too much or too little. No doubt it may be
argued that, if the Will of the People properly expressed was to elect a single man as dictator
and invest him with the power of deciding in all matters of detail, you might still have a
Democracy, though it looked like a Monarchy. But these are abstract points. For practical purposes
in a European community there can, in my opinion, be no doubt as to the convenience of basing,
in the last resort, your system of government upon the Will of the People, as it is based,
in theory, at any rate, in England and in America.

I admit, however, that when you come to apply your principles in practice the problem alters.
Nothing is more obvious in our great modern communities than the fact that the people cannot
rule themselves directly. Though they could meet in the Agora of Athens and decide the fate
of the Athenian Republic, or in the meadow of the Gemeinde at Appenzell, or any of the other
small Swiss cantons, in a country with even only a couple of million of people, you must rely
on the Representative System. In other words, though the many must will the direction in which
the State shall move, it is only the few who can make that will executive.

Now comes the difficulty. As the advocates of Proportional Representation have been telling
us for so many years, the Representative System may actually place the control of the Government
in the hands of a minority. Again, though men may be elected to do one thing, they may in practice
do another. Representative assemblies are often swayed, not merely by the voice of the orator,
but, what is even a more serious matter, by the voice of the minority. Also, as Mill pointed
out, under the party system applied to the Representative System, you are liable to be ruled
not by a majority, but by a majority of a majority. Your Parliament is split up into two parties--the
lefts and the rights. The lefts are not completely homogeneous. Therefore they have to decide
on their course of action by a vote within their party. But if the party is nearly divided,
it may well be that the majority of the majority is a small minority of the whole. But things
are even worse than that when party loyalty is maintained, as is usually the case. Then, a
minority within the lefts may be so powerful through its persistency, or, again, through its
fanatical obsession on a particular point, that it is able to force a majority within the party
to act in the particular way the minority wants. In short, there are a dozen different ways,
under a Representative System, of making operative, not the Will of the Majority of the People,
but the Will of a Minority.

It is because of this that since the Anglo-Saxon peoples have had representative institutions
they have sought some system under which the people as a whole could exercise a veto on the
legislative vagaries of their "deputies" or "select men." The people, in moments of tension,
have yearned for the right to veto the work of their representatives when such work is obviously
based upon the decision of a minority. The only substantial result of that yearning in Great
Britain up till now has been the ad hoc General Election.

At the time of the destruction of the Monarchy of Charles I, the Army of the Commonwealth,
a very democratic body, actually demanded the Referendum, or Poll of the People, for all important
changes in the Constitution. Their descendants in the United States, though they did not insert
the Popular Veto in the Federal Constitution, have in each State decreed that all fundamental
legislation, i.e., all changes in the Constitution, shall be passed subject to the veto of
the whole mass of the electors. Switzerland is generally regarded as the home of the Referendum,
though in reality that honour belongs to the individual States of the American Union. In Switzerland
every Federal Act is either submitted automatically or else is submittable "on demand," to
the veto of the People.

Favouring, as I do, real Democracy, and so believing that the Will of the People alone should
prevail, and that we should get complete and unchallengeable sanction for the laws, I have
always regarded the Referendum, or Poll of the People, as an essential corrective to the inconveniences
and anomalies of the Representative System. The Popular Veto is, in my view, the essential
antiseptic of the Constitutional Pharmacopeia.

To put it with brutal plainness, I desire the Referendum in order to free us from the evils
of log-rolling and other exigencies of the kind which Walt Whitman grouped under the general
formula of "the insolence of elected persons."

I am told by my horrified Radical friends that my proposal is politically odious--a Tory device
that would stop all reforms. This I doubt. But if it is really the Will of the People that
we should not have reforms, then we must do without them. Till we can convert the Will of the
People, we must abide by it. Anyway, I have always thought this objection (which, by the way,
is not, as Artemus Ward would say, "writ sarkastic") an exceedingly illuminating fact. It shows
how skin-deep is the democratic principle in the minds of many men who think themselves strong
Radicals. They do not really believe in submitting to the Will of the People. They want to
do what they think is good for the People, but they have no true sense of freedom. They do
not realise that if you are to give a man true freedom, you must inevitably give him the right
to do wrong as well as the right to do right. If you do not do that, he is no freeman, but
merely a virtuous slave--a creature, as Dryden said, "tied up from doing ill." For such compulsory
freedom I have no use. I want to convert people, not to force them, or cajole them. Of course,
I cannot banish force altogether, because if the Will of the Majority is not obeyed, we shall
never arrive anywhere. We shall spend our time in fruitless and so futile discussions. What
we can avoid by the Poll of the People is coercion by the minority. Curiously enough, the minority,
teste Lenin, seem to have no sentimental objection to coercion. They fly to it at once. As
a rule, however, the show of power is quite enough when the will of the majority is expressed.
So great is the impact of its declaration that men will not fight against it.

Having got so far, a great many of my readers will, no doubt, rub their eyes and say, "Why
on earth is this man letting forth this torrent of rather obvious, well-known, elementary,
political stuff? It might do for a Fourth Form in a public school, or for a lecture on the
duties of persons on the new Register of Electors, but one really thought that the adult citizen
had got beyond this sort of thing."

I apologise humbly for being so elementary; but, after all, I have an excuse. It seems to me
that the real danger of the moment is minority rule. Therefore, though all I have said may
be condemned as unoriginal, I hold it worthwhile to bring people's minds back to the fact that
they are in danger of minority rule, in spite of the fact that they have the very strongest
moral reasons for refusing to be ruled by a minority.

Perhaps some of us have not yet observed that in almost all countries the so-called Labour
Parties are copying the brutal frankness of Lenin and Trotsky and saying openly that it is
only the Proletariat, or, as the wiser of them put it, the manual workers who have the right
to decide in what direction the Ship of State shall be steered, and how she shall be worked
on the voyage. Now, though I have no desire to substitute any other section of the community
for the manual workers, and hold most strongly that such workers have as great a right as University
professors, or members of the Stock Exchange, or even members of the bureaucracy, to say how
we are to be governed, I will never admit that they have a prerogative right to rule, and that
I and other non- manual workers have only the right to obey. That is, however, the Proletarian
claim. The so-called capitalist or bourgeois is, in effect, to be outlawed.

In such a context I cannot help thinking of the carman and Uncle Joseph in The Wrong Box. Uncle
Joseph makes a remark about the lower classes, to which the carman replies, "Who are the lower
classes? You are the lower classes yourself!" I claim an inalienable right to be regarded as
one of the people, and I do not mean, if I can help it, to have that right taken away from
me, either by a Cæsarian Dictator, an Oligarchy of manual workers, a Federation of Trade Unions,
Combined Guild Socialists, or a Soviet of Proletarians.

I will yield anything to the members of these Societies in their capacity of citizens possessing
each the same rights as mine, but I will yield nothing to them as the possessors of privilege.
I hope I shall not be considered arrogant when I say that I am sure that in the maintenance
of this view I shall find myself with the majority both in England and in America. But, of
course, the rub is, shall we be able to awaken the Will of the Majority? May not a group of
subtle and skilful demagogues, acting with the manual workers' Oligarchy or the Soviet of Proletarians,
contrive to prevent me and my fellows in the majority coming together? That, I admit, is a
real danger, and that is why I want to amend our Constitution in such a way as to place in
the hands of the People themselves a right of veto over the work of the House of Commons. I
want legislation of a vital description referred to a Poll of the People. Needless to say,
I do not want to see every petty Bill referred to the people, but I do want all laws affecting
great issues to obtain the popular sanction. Let Bills be discussed and threshed out in Parliament,
and then put to the people with this question, "Do you or do you not desire that this Act shall
come into operation? Those in favour of the Act will mark their papers 'Yes'; those against
it will mark their papers 'No.'" In my opinion, we shall not be safe from minority rule until
we get this acknowledgment of the right of the people to say the final word. Let us loyally
obey the will of the majority, but let us be sure that it is the majority.

