Nobody will care to support "Pangenesis" as a theory of generation. To suppose that there is
a mysterious power which breaks a little fraction off each of the bioplasts of which we are
asserted to be the sum; that having collected these fractions it arranges them all in the right
order within the compass of a single germ, and from that germ reproduces the parent organism,
is an hypothesis compared with which the creation of the world in its entirety six thousand
years ago, including the fossils and remains of aeonian civilizations, is lucid and intelligible.
This is no hyperbole. For if once we allow creation at all, the creation of the world at any
stage of Evolution is just as conceivable as the creation of primordial atoms. If any living
thing were now created (e.g., a grain of corn or a full ear) it would bear in itself the apparent
evidence of having grown to its present state ab ovo; or the ovum itself would seem to ground
a similar false inference of having come from a parent. Strange as such an idea may be, it
is easy and pellucid compared with the hypothesis of Pangenesis--still more when we remember
that this complex germ, which is a lion or a horse in small--itself the elaboration of aeons
of Evolution--can replicate itself with ease and rapidity, reproducing in adjacent pabulum
a "cosmos" which differs in degree, not in kind, from that described in the story of the Six
Days. Yet the more we look into it, the more clear is it that Pangenesis (and not Polarigenesis
or Perigenesis) is the inevitable outcome of the aggregation-theory of life.

And therefore to return to our former assertion, whatever we seem to gain in simplicity of
statement by this form of the Evolution theory, we pay for dearly when we come to its application;
nay more, as soon as we attempt to translate the words into clear and distinct ideas, we are
left with nothing coherent that the mind can get hold of; and it is only at this price that
we can cut away the basis of the "argument from adaptability," and with it the basis of all
reason and morality. We must therefore go on to examine if there be any alternative form of
the same philosophy more bearable.

I have forborne all criticism of the supposed facts on which Evolution is based; as others
have dealt frequently with their various weaknesses. Nor do I think it necessary to deal with
the extravagant subordinate hypotheses by aid of which facts are forced under the main hypothesis,
e.g., those which explain how the horse grew out of the hipparion. The crudest finalists have
been everywhere out-stripped by Evolutionists in dextrous application of the argument a posse
ad esse.

III.

Assuming still that the facts collected and arranged by experimental science in favour of the
hypothesis are such as to demand some kind of Evolution-philosophy; assuming that the very
imperfect serial classification of living things according to their degree of organic definiteness,
coherence, and heterogeneity not merely represents a variety which has always coexisted since
life was possible on this earth, but rather traces out or hints at the genetic process by which
this variety has been produced, let us see if there be any other governing principle directing
the process, more intelligible than the persistence of that mere organic life which cannot
even be thought of as distinct from those appliances and functions which it is supposed to
have evolved for its own service by "natural selection."

