"Our kind and beloved pastor has addressed us all in church this morning, and I trust we shall
remember well the words of truth and wisdom which he spoke.  And now it falls to myself to
speak to you.  I can most truthfully declare how it rejoices myself and my dear wife to see
so many healthy, happy faces at our yearly `Band of Hope' festivity. But to-day we specially
rejoice, because we see here a happy couple who have just been joined together as man and wife
in our church, with the blessed prospect of being fellow-partakers of the happiness of heaven.
I am very thankful to number them among my tenants and people.  You all of you now know something
of Samuel Johnson, his trials, temptations, and struggles as a Christian total abstainer. 
(`Hear, hear,' from Old Crow.)  What a truly happy gathering this is!  I have no need to look
at any with misgiving lest their bright faces should owe their brightness to excess in intoxicating
liquors.  We have no false stimulants here--we have no clouded brains, no aching consciences
here--none will go home needing to rue the gathering and recreations of this day.  And now,
young people of the `Band of Hope,' my dear boys and girls, I have just a parting word for
you.  Never let any one persuade you, go where you may, to forsake your pledged total abstinence.
Never care for a laugh or a frown, they can do you no harm while God is on your side.  Oh,
remember what an insidious, what a crafty tempter the drink is!  I have a short story to tell
you that will illustrate this.  Many years ago, when the English and French were at war with
one another in North America, a portion of the English army was encamped near a dense and trackless
forest.  The French were on friendly terms with a tribe of Red Indians who lived thereabouts,
and our men were therefore obliged to be specially on their guard against these crafty savage
foes.  A sentinel was placed just on the border of the forest, and he was told to be very watchful
against a surprise from the Indians.  But one day, when the sergeant went to relieve guard,
he found the sentinel dead, his scalp, (that is, the hair with the skin and all), torn from
his head, and his musket gone.  This was plainly the work of an Indian.  Strict charge was
given to the new sentinel to fire his musket on the first approach of an enemy.  Again they
went to relieve guard, and again they found the sentinel dead and scalped as the one before
him.  They left another soldier in his place, and after a while, hearing the discharge of a
musket, they hurried to the spot.  There stood the sentinel uninjured, and close at his feet
lay a Red Indian dead.  The sentinel's account was this.  While he was keeping his eyes on
the forest, he saw coming from it a sort of large hog common in those parts, which rolls itself
about in a peculiarly amusing manner.  In its gambols it kept getting nearer and nearer to
him, when all of a sudden it darted into his mind, `Perhaps this creature is only an Indian
in disguise.'  He fired at it, and found it was even so.  The crafty savage had thus approached
the other sentinels, who had been thrown off their guard by his skilful imitation of the animal's
movements, so that the Indian had sprung up and overpowered them before they could fire or
call for help.  Now it is just so, dear boys and girls, with the drink.  It comes, as it were,
all innocence and playfulness: it raises the spirits, unchains the tongue, makes the eyes bright,
and persuades a man that the last thing he will do will be to exceed; and then it gets closer
and closer, and springs upon him, and gets the mastery over him, before he is at all aware.
But don't you trifle with it, for it comes from the enemy's country--it is in league with the
enemy--repel it at the outset--have nothing to do with it--it has surprised and slain millions
of immortal beings--never taste, and then you will never crave.  Oh, how happy to show that
you can live without it!  Then you may win others to follow your example. Ay, the young total
abstainer who will not touch the drink because he loves his Saviour, does indeed stand on a
rock that cannot be moved, and he can stretch out the helping hand to others, and cry, `Come
up here and be safe.'  And now away to your games and your sports, and may God bless you all!"