I awoke on Saturday, April 9, in bad condition, and during the afternoon had my third attack
of fever, the effect of the dam and its miasma. Wanting change of air, and looking forward
to Effuenta, I set off in my hammock and found my friends. The tertian lasted me till Monday,
Sunday being an 'off-day;' and, as the Tuesday was wet and uncomfortable, I delayed departure
till Wednesday morning. My 'Warburg' had unfortunately leaked out: the paper cover of the phial
was perfect, but of the contents only a little sediment remained. Treatment, therefore, was
confined to sulphate of quinine and a strychnine and arsenic pill; arseniate of quinine would
have been far better, but the excellent preparation is too economical for the home-pharmist,
and has failed to secure the favour of the Coast-doctors. One of my friends has made himself
almost fever-proof by the liberal use of arsenic; but I can hardly recommend it, as the result
must be corrected by an equally liberal use of Allan's anti-fat. Burton, who has studied its
use amongst the Styrian arsenic-eaters, denies that this is the common effect: he found that
it makes the mountaineer preserve his condition, wind and complexion, arms him against ague,
and adds generally to his health. He is still doubtful, however, whether it shortens or prolongs
life.

On Wednesday, April 12, I left Effuenta after morning tea. My hospitable host had nearly seen
the last of his stores, to which he had made me so cordially welcome; and there were no signs
of fresh supplies, although they had long been due. This is hardly fair treatment for the hard-working
employé: let the Company look to it. With a certain tightening of the heart I made over my
canine friend, Nero, to Dr. Roulston. He had lost all those bad habits which neglected education
had engrafted upon the heat of youth. He now began to show more fondness for sport than for
sheep-worrying; and he retrieved one bird, carrying it with the utmost delicacy of mouth.

I set out on foot for Vinegar Hill, and found that the steep eastern ascent from the Tákwá
ridge had been provided with a series of cut steps by Mr. Commissioner: in these lands, as
elsewhere, new brooms sweep clean; but they are very easily worn out. This place has been for
years the 'black beast' of travellers, especially in rainy weather, when the rapid incline
becomes so slippery that even the most sure-footed slither and slide.

After crossing the Abonsá Hill I took to my hammock and was carried through rain, and a very
devilry of weather, into the Abonsá village. The whole path was shockingly bad and muddy. Once
more I became a lodger of Mr. Crocker's; his house, being as usual far the best, gave us good
shelter for the night.

Next morning (7.30) we set out down the Abonsá stream in a small canoe belonging to Mr. MacLennan.
The natives made the usual difficulties; the craft (which was quite sound) could not float,
and amongst other things she had no paddles: for this, however, I had provided by making my
men cut them last evening. Almost immediately after leaving this head of navigation, barred
above by a reef and a fall, we saw that eternal mangrove. Presently the Aunábé creek broke
the line of the right bank. Our course was as usual exceedingly tortuous, turning to every
quadrant of the compass; and, during the last fortnight, the water-level had risen four feet.
The formation of the trough is that of the Ancobra, and the bed bristles with rocks. In a distance
of seven miles and a half by course there were four small breaks, and one serious rapid about
a hundred yards long, where the decline exceeded five feet. Here the men had to get overboard
and to ease the canoe down the swirling waters, which dashed heavily on the rocks. The snags
were even thicker than on the upper Ancobra, and were far more dangerous than on the St. John's.
In places the mangrove fallen from the banks had taken root in the river-bed. In fact, unless
some exertion be soon made, even the present insufficient channel will be blocked up.

At the Abonsá embouchure Mr. Wyatt's map, copied from M. Dahse, shows an island backed by a
ridge running nearly east-west. I found no river-holm, and only a small broadening of the Ancobra
to about double its usual breadth. The banks at the sharp angle of junction are, however, low;
and, perhaps, my predecessor saw them when flooded. The Mankuma Hill, on the right bank, belonging
to the Franco-English Company, is somewhat taller than its neighbours: as usual in this silted-up
archipelago, it trends from the north-east to the south-west.

I had already shot the Ancobra River when paddling up, and was not over lucky when coming down.
The big kingfisher did not put in an appearance, and the sun-birds equally failed me: the smallest
item of my collection measures two and a quarter inches, and is robed in blue, crimson, and
sulphur. I was fortunate enough to bring home four specimens of a rare spur-plover (Lobivanellus
albiceps): they are now in Mr. Sharp's department of the British Museum. I killed a few little
snakes and one large green tree-snake; two crocodiles, both lost in the river, and an iguana,
which found its way into the spirit-cask. A tzetze-fly (Glossina morsitans) was captured in
Effuenta House, curiously deserting its usual habit of jungle-life in preference to a home
on clear ground: its dagger-like proboscis, in the grooved sheath with a ganglion of muscles
at the base, assimilated it to the dreaded and ferocious cattle-scourge which extends from
Zanzibar to the Tanganyika Lake and from Kilwa (Quiloa) to the Transvaal. My kind friend and
hospitable host Dr. (now Sir) John Kirk, who did the geography and natural history for the
lamentable Zambeze expedition, met it close to the Victoria Falls. Burton also sent home a
specimen from the Gold Coast east of Accra.

Mr. MacLennan gave me sundry beetles, but insisted on retaining one which is the largest I
ever saw. The hunting-dog must scour the bush in packs, for the voice is exactly that of hounds.
The laugh of the hyæna and the scream of the buzzard are commonly heard. The track of a 'bush-cow'
once crossed my path: the halves of the spoor were some five inches long by three wide, and
the hoofs knuckled backwards so as to show false hoofs of almost equal size. I was unable to
procure for Dr. Günther a specimen of the 'bush-dog,' as the Kruboys call it: last year I was
bringing home a live one in the s.s. Nubia; but one day the fellow in charge reported that
it was dead and had been thrown overboard. I hold it to be a tailless lemur, the galago of
the East Coast. The French name is orson, the popular idea being that it is an ursine. The
Fanti peoples, whose 'folk-lore' is extensive, and who have some tale about every bird, beast,
and fish, thus account for the loud cries which we heard at night in every 'bush.' King Leo,
having lost his mother, commanded by proclamation all his subjects to attend her funeral, and
none failed save Orson. One evening his Feline Majesty, when going his rounds, found the delinquent
upon the ground, and roughly demanded the reason why. Orson, shuffling towards the nearest
tree, pleaded in all humility, 'O King, is thy beloved parent really deceased? I never heard
of it. I am so sorry; I would never have failed to show the respect due to the royal house.'
When he had climbed the foot of the tree his tone began to alter. 'But, Sire, if thy Majesty
hath lost a mother, I see no cause compelling me to attend her funeral.' And when quite safe
the change was notable. 'Bother the old woman! very glad she is dead, and may her grave be
defiled!' These people know the stuff of which courtiers are made.

My collection of specimens from the mines and the river-beds filled a dozen cases. The butterflies,
of which we collected a large number, were all spoilt by the moth for want of camphor. 'Insect-powder'
had been our only preservative. I had also a thirty-gallon cask of plants preserved in spirits,
two boxes well stuffed, a large case of orchids, and a raceme of the bamboo-palm (Raphia vinifera),
whose use has still to be found. The animals, including insects in tubes, filled nearly two
kegs and three bottles, and I had two small cases of stuffed birds, the handiwork of Mr. Dawson.

Of stone-implements I was lucky enough to secure thirty-six, and made over four of them to
my friend Professor Prestwich. They are found everywhere throughout the country, but I saw
no place of manufacture except those noted near Axim. Mr. Sam, of Tumento, promised to forward
many others to England. The native women search for and find them not only near the beds of
streams, but also about the alluvial diggings. Nearly all are shaped like the iron axe or adze
of Urúa, in Central Africa, a long narrow blade with rounded top and wedge-shaped edge. This
tool is either used in the hand like a chisel, or inserted into a conical hole burnt through
a tree-branch, and the shape of the aperture makes every blow tighten the hold. The people
mount it in two ways, either as an axe in line with, or as an adze at a right angle to, the helve.

At Akankon I obtained from Mr. Amondsen a stone-implement of novel shape, not seen by me elsewhere.
A bit of the usual close-grained trap had been cut into a parallelopiped seven and a half inches
long with a flat head one inch and a half in diameter and a bevel-edge of two inches and one-third
along the slope. This part had been chipped ready for grinding, and the article was evidently
unfinished; one side still wanted polishing, and the part opposite the bevel showed signs of
tapering, as if a point instead of an edge had been intended. At Axim I split off by gads and
wedges a large slice of the grooved rocks described by Burton; it came home with me, and is
now lodged in the British Museum.

The rest of my story is told in a few words. I canoed safely down the Ancobra River, and reached
Axim on April 14. This return was made sad and solitary by the absence of my canine friend, Nero.

A week soon passed away at the port of the Gold-region. Mr. Grant presently returned from his
excursion to the west. He showed me fine specimens of gold collected at Newtown, the English
frontier-settlement immediately east of French Assini. I had also warned him to look out for,
and he succeeded in finding, beds of bitumen permeated with petroleum: this material will prove
valuable for fuel and for asphalting, if not for sale. My time was wholly taken up with papering
and repacking my collection, which had now assumed formidable proportions, and time fled the
faster as the days were occupied in also fighting an impertinent attack of ague and fever.

On April 24 the B. and A. s.s. Loanda (Captain Brown) anchored in the roads. Mr. Grant accompanied
me on board, and showed himself useful and energetic as usual. At Cape Palmas we shipped the
Honourable Doctor and Professor Blyden. He pointed out to me certain hillocks on the coast
about Grand Bassá, where he said gold had lately been found. The lay of the land and the strike
and shape of the eminences reminded me strongly of those I had left behind me. The 'Secretary
of the Interior,' who had been compelled to leave his college, assured me that if wiser counsels
prevail Liberia will abandon her old Japanese policy of exclusion, and will open her ports
to European capital and enterprise. At Sierra Leone I called upon Governor Havelock, who was
recovering from the accident of a dislocated shoulder. Both he and the 'Governess' were in
the best of health. At Madeira, on May 12, my companion Burton joined us, and we had a week
of dull passage to Liverpool. As we left on Friday and carried a reverend gentleman on board,
the cranky old craft was sorely tossed about for two successive days, and we were delayed off
the Liverpool bar, arriving on the 20th instead of the 18th of May, 1882.

CONCLUSION.

The journey and the voyage ended, as such things should do, with a dinner of welcome at the
Adelphi, given to us by our hospitable friend Mr. James Irvine. And here we had the first opportunity
of delivering the message which we had brought home from the Golden Land.

APPENDIX I

§1. THE ASHANTI SCARE.

That fears of an Ashanti attack upon the mines of the Gold Coast Protectorate are rather fanciful
than factual we may learn from the details of the Blue Book 'Gold Coast, 1881.' The 'threatened
Ashanti invasion,' popularly termed the 'Ashanti scare,' did abundant good by showing up the
weakness of that once powerful despotism, and the superiority in numbers and in equipment of
the coastlanders over the inlanders. It is true that there are tribes, like the Awunahs of
the Volta, and villages, like Béin in Apollonia, which still sympathise with our old enemy.
But only the grossest political mismanagement, like that which in 1876 abandoned our ally,
the King of Juabin, to the tender mercies of his Ashanti foeman, aided by the unwisest economy,
which starves everything to death save the treasure-chest, will ever bring about a general
movement against us.

On December 1, 1880, died, to the general regret of native and stranger, Mr. Ussher, Governor
and Commander-in-Chief of the Gold Coast; a veteran in the tropics and an ex-commissariat officer,
whose political service dated from 1861. In British India a change of rulers is always supposed
to offer a favourable opportunity for 'doing something,' often in the shape of a revolt or
a campaign. The same proved to be the case in West Africa, where the Ashanti is officially
described as 'crafty, persistent, mendacious, and treacherous.'

It may easily be imagined that after the English victories at Amoaful and Ordusu in 1873-74
the African despotism sighed for la revanche. The Treaty of Fománá, concluded (February 13),
after the capture (February 4) and the firing (February 6) of Kumasi, between Sir Garnet Wolseley
and the representative of the King, Kofi Kalkali, or Kerrikerri, subsequently dethroned, stripped
her of her principal dependencies--lopped off, in fact, her four limbs. These were the ever-hostile
province of Denkira, auriferous Akim, Adansi, and lastly Assin, now part of our Protectorate.
The measure only renewed the tripartite treaty of April 27, 1831, when King Kwáko Dúa, in consideration
of free access to the seaboard, and in friendship with the unfortunate and ill-treated Governor
(George) Maclean, 'renounced all right or title to any tribute, or homage, from the Kings of
Denkira, Assin, and others formerly his subjects.' But nulla fronti fides is the rule of the
hideous little negro despotism, which, in 1853, again invaded the coveted lands on its southern
frontier, Assin.

The treaty of 1874, moreover, compelled Ashanti formally to renounce all pretensions to sovereignty
over Elmina and the tribes formerly in connection with the Dutch Government. It vetoed her
raids and forays upon neighbouring peoples; like Dahome she had her annual slave-hunts and
the captives were sold for gold-dust to the inner tribes. The young officers who replaced the
veterans of the war would naturally desire, in Kafir parlance, to 'wash their spears.' Nor
are they satisfied with the defeats sustained by their sires. 'I believe,' wrote Winwood Reade,
'that Sir Garnet Wolseley attained the main object of the expedition, namely, the securing
of the Protectorate from periodical invasion. Yet still I wish that the success had been more
definite and complete.' The wish is echoed by most people on the coast; and the natives still
say, 'White man he go up Kumasi, he whip black boy, and then he run away.'

It is regretable that the Commander-in-Chief, if he could not occupy Kumasi himself, did not
leave Sir John H. Glover in charge, and especially that he did not destroy the Bantama (royal
place of human sacrifice), [Footnote: Sir Garnet Wolseley's admirable conduct of the Egyptian
campaign, where he showed all the qualities which make up the sum of 'generalship,' have wiped
out the memory of his failures in Ashanti and Kafir-land. Better still, he has proved that
the British soldier can still fight, a fact upon which the disgraceful Zulu campaign had cast
considerable doubt. But the public ignores a truth known to every professional. Under an incompetent
or unlucky commander all but the best men will run: the worst will allow themselves to be led
or driven to victory by one they trust. Compare the Egyptian troops under old Ibrahim Pasta,
and under Arabi, the Fe-lah-Pasha.] or at least remove from it the skull of Sir Charles Macarthy.
[Footnote: Captain Brackenbury throws doubt upon the skull being preserved in the Bantama;
but his book is mainly apologetic, and we may ask, If the cherished relic be not there, where
is it? The native legend runs thus: 'And they took him (i.e. Macarthy) and cut off his head,
and brought it to their camp and removed the brains; but the skull, which was left, they filled
it with gold, and they roasted the whole body and they carried it to Ashanti.... And the head,
which they bore to Ashanti, has become their "fetish," which they worship till this day.'--Native
account of Macarthy's death, Zimmermann's Grammar of the Accra or Ga Language, Stuttgart, 1858.]
And yet we now learn that the campaign did good work. Captain Lonsdale, who has spent some
time in Kumasi, reports that the Caboceers have built huts instead of repairing their 'palaces.'
Moreover, he declares that the story of sacrificing girls to mix their blood with house-swish
is a pure fabrication; the Ashantis would no longer dare to do anything so offensive to the
conqueror.

Last on the list of solid Ashanti grievances is her exclusion from the seaboard. Unknown to
history before A.D. 1700, the Despotism first invaded the Coast in 1807, when King Osai Tutu
Kwámina pretended a wish to recover the fugitive chiefs Chibbu and Aputai. These attacks succeeded
one another at intervals of ten years, say the Fantis. The main object was to secure a port
on the coast, where the inlanders could deal directly with the white man, and could thus escape
the unconscionable pillaging, often fifty per cent. and more, of the Fanti middleman. This
feeling is not, indeed, unknown to Europe: witness Montenegro. I see no reason why the people
should not have an 'Ashantimile' at the Volta mouth; and I shall presently return to this subject.

Hardly was Governor Ussher buried than troubles began. Mr. Edmund Watt, a young District-commissioner
at Cape Coast Castle, officially reported to Lieutenant-Governor W. B. Griffith, subsequently
Administrator of Lagos, that Opoku, 'King' of Bekwa (Becquah), had used language tending to
a breach of the peace. This commander-in-Chief of the Ashanti forces in 1873-74 had publicly
sworn in his sober senses at Kumasi, and in presence of the new king, Kwámina Osai Mensah,
that he would perforce reduce Adansi, the hill-country held to be the southern boundary of
Ashanti-land. Such a campaign would have been an infraction of treaty, or at least a breach
of faith: although the province is not under the protection of the Colonial Government, King
Kofi Kalkali [Footnote: This ruler succeeded his father, King Kwáko Dúa, in 1868; and his compulsory
abdication is considered to have been an ill-advised measure.] had promised to respect its
independence and to leave it unmolested.

Lieutenant-Governor Griffith lost no time in forwarding the report to the Colonial Office,
adding sundry disquieting rumours which supported his suspicions. Missionaries and merchants
had observed that certain 'messengers,' or envoys, sent from Kumasi to acknowledge the presents
of the late Governor Ussher, were lingering without apparent reason about Cape Coast Castle,
after being formally dismissed. Moreover, their residing in the house of 'Prince Ansah,' a
personage not famous for plain dealing, boded no good.

A new complication presently arose. Prince Owusu, nephew of the King and heir to the doughty
Gyáman kingdom, fled from Kumasi to the Protectorate, and reached Elmina on January 18. He
appeared in great fear, and declared that a son of the chief Amankwá Kwomá and three 'court-criers,'
or official heralds, were coming down to the coast on a solemn mission to demand his extradition.
They carried, he said, not the peaceful cane with the gold or silver head, but the mysterious
'Gold Axe.' Opinions at once differed as to the import and object of this absurd implement.
According to some its mission portended war, and it had preceded the campaigns of 1863 and
1873. Others declared that it signified a serious 'palaver,' being a strong hint that the King
would cut through and down every obstacle. Strange to say, the first Ashanti messengers were
never called upon to explain before the public what the 'Gold Axe' really did mean.

The Colonial Office acted with spirit and wholesome vigour. It was urged on by Mr. Griffith,
whose energetic reports certainly saved the Protectorate grave troubles. He has thereby incurred
much blame, ridicule, and obloquy; nor has he received due credit from those under whom he served.

The newly-appointed Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Gold Coast, Sir Samuel Rowe, at
once ordered out to relieve Mr. Griffith, left England in mid-February. He was accompanied
by a staff of seven officers temporarily employed. Reinforcements were hurried from Sierra
Leone and the West Indies. The Admiralty was applied to for the reunion of cruisers upon the
Gold Coast waters. Estimates of native allies were drawn up, showing that 20,000 half-armed
men could be brought into the field against the 30,000 of Ashanti. The loyal and powerful chief
Kwámina Blay, of Atábo, in Amrehía, or Western Apollonia, offered 6,000 muskets, and an additional
1,000 hands if the Government would supply arms and ammunition.

On January 19 the ambassador with the 'Gold Axe' presented himself at Elmina. He was accompanied
by Saibi Enkwiá, who had signed the treaty at Fománá, a village in Assin, between Kumasi and
the Bosom Prah River. The envoy formally demanded possession of Prince Owusu and of one Amangkrá,
an Ashanti trader who had aided him to escape. Saibi Enkwiá added by way of threat, 'The King
said, if the Governor would not order the return of Owusu to Kumasi, he would attack the Assins.'
He further explained that these Assins were the people who always caused 'palavers' between
the Ashantis and the Protectorate, to which they belonged.

Naturally the ignominious demand was refused. The messengers left for Kumasi, and Lieutenant-Governor
Griffith telegraphed from Madeira to England (January 25), 'War imminent with Ashanti.' It
was considered suspicious that all the inlanders were disappearing from the coast. This was
afterwards explained: they were flocking north for the 'native Christmas,' the Yam-custom,
or great festival of the year.

Our preparations were pushed forward the more energetically as time appeared to be tight. The
Ashantis were buying up all the weapons they could find when the sale of arms, ammunition,
and salt was prohibited. Detachments were despatched to the Mansu and Prahsu stations; the
latter is upon the Bosom (Abosom, or Sacred) Prah, the frontier between Ashanti and the Protectorate,
to cross which is to 'pass the Rubicon.' Here, as at other main fords and ferries, defensive
works were laid out. Arrangements were made for holding nine out of the eighteen forts, abandoning
the rest; and Accra was strengthened as the central place. The 'companies,' or 'native levies,'
who, with a suspicious unanimity, applied for guns and gunpowder, lead and flints, were urged
to the 'duty of defence.' Five cruisers, under Commander (now Captain, R.N.) J. W. Brackenbury,
were stationed off the three chief castles, Elmina, Cape Coast, and Anamabo, and the naval
contingent was drilled daily on shore. The Haussa constabulary was reinforced. The First West
India Regiment sent down men from Sierra Leone, and the Second 500 rank and file from Barbadoes.
In fact, such ardour was shown that the Ashantis, scared out of their intentions of scaring,
began to fear another English invasion. 'The white men intend to take Kumasi again!' they said;
and perhaps the reflection that 48,000 ounces of gold were still due to us suggested a motive.
They had been making ready for offence; now they prepared for defence.

About mid-February the 'situation' notably changed. Messieurs Buck and Huppenbauer, two German
missionaries who were making a 'preaching-tour,' reported from Kumasi that King Mensah was
afraid of war, and that his kingdom was 'on the point to go asunder.' The despot, with African
wiliness, at once threw the blame of threatening Assin upon his confidant, Saibi Enkwiá. No
one believed that an Ashantiman would thus expose himself to certain death; but the explanation
served for an excuse. The King also asserted that his 'Gold Axe' meant simply nothing. Thereupon
the officials of the Protectorate began looking forward to an ample apology, and to a fine
of gold-dust for the disturbing of their quiet days. In fact, they foresaw 'peace with honour.'

Governor Sir Samuel Rowe, with his usual good fortune, landed at Elmina on March 9, exactly
the right time. The attempt to intimidate had ignobly failed, and had recoiled upon the attempter.
King Mensah, in order to remove all suspicions of intending a campaign, had resolved to send
coastwards the most important and ceremonious mission of the age. It was to conclude a kind
of Paix des Dames. Queen Kokofu had threatened that in case of hostilities she would go over
to the British. The Queen-mother, a power in the country, which has often kept the peace for
it and plunged it into war, threatened to take her own life--and here such threats are always
followed by action. In fact, the peace-party had utterly overthrown the war-party.

The mission left Kumasi in May. It was headed by Prince Bwáki, step-father to the two royal
brothers, Kofi Kalkali and Kwábina Osai Mensah, and the number as well as the high rank of
the retinue made it remarkable. At Prahsu, where the envoys were met by Governor Rowe, a preliminary
conversation took place. Despite the usual African and barbarian fencing and foiling, the Englishman
carried the day; the message must be delivered with all publicity and proper ceremony in the
old 'palaver-hall' of historic Elmina Castle.

A conclusive interview took place on May 30. Prince Bwáki explained that 'mistakes had been
made, but that the mistakes had not been alone those of his king and son-in-law.' He declared
that the messenger, Saibi Enkwiá, had exceeded his powers in threatening Assin. The King, he
said, had sworn by 'God and earth,' that is, by the 'spirits' above and by the ghosts below,
that he had sent no such message. At the same time the King confessed being partly to blame,
as the message had been delivered by his own servant. In the matter of the 'Gold Axe,' however,
the mistake was the mistake of the Lieutenant-Governor (Griffith).

The Prince further explained that Ashanti has two symbols of war, a peculiar sword and a certain
cap; whereas the 'Gold Axe' being 'fetish' and endowed with some magical and mysterious power,
is never sent on a hostile errand. He offered, in the King's name, as further evidence of friendly
feeling, to surrender the 'so-called Golden Axe,' which important symbol of Ashanti power had
been forwarded from head-quarters with an especial mission. It was delivered on the express
understanding that it should be despatched to England for the acceptance of H.B. Majesty, and
not be kept upon the coast, exposed to the ribaldry of the hostile Fantis. The weapon, said
Prince Bwáki, is so old that no one knows its origin, and it is held so precious that in processions
it precedes the Great Royal Stool, or throne, of Ashanti. The leopard-skin, bound with gold
upon the handle, symbolises courage in the field; the gold is wealth, and the iron is strength.

Finally, the unhappy 'Gold Axe,' after being publicly paraded upon a velvet cushion through
the streets of Elmina, was entrusted to Captain Knapp Barrow, who returned to England by the
next steamer. It was duly presented, and found its way to the South Kensington Museum, after
faring very badly at the hands of the 'society journals' and other members of the fourth estate.
[Footnote: For instance: 'The gold axe of King Koffee of Ashantee, lately sent, for an unexplained
reason, to the Queen, is described as a triangular blade of iron, apparently out from a piece
of boiler-plate, roughly stuck into a clumsy handle of African oak. The handle is covered with
leopard-skin, part of which, immediately above the blade, is deeply soiled, apparently with
blood. Bands of thin gold, enriched with uncouth chevrons and lunettes en repoussé, are placed
round the handle. The sheath of the blade, which is of tiger (leopard) skin, accompanies this
hideous implement, and attached to it is the sole element which has anything like artistic
merit. This is a nondescript object of beaten gold, in shape something like a large cockle-shell
with curved horns extending from the hinge, and not inelegantly decorated with lines and punctures,
en repoussé and open work of quasi-scrolls.'] Needless to say it was an utter impostor. The
real Golden Axe is great 'fetish,' and never leaves either Kumasi or, indeed, the presence
of the King.

The ceremony of delivering the message in the palaver-hall was satisfactory. Prince Bwáki grasped
the knees of Governor Rowe, the official sign of kneeling. He expressed the devotion of his
liege lord to the Majesty of England; and finally he offered to pay down at once two thousand
ounces of gold in proof of Ashantian sincerity. All these transactions were duly recorded;
the promises in the form of a bond.

The play was now played out; cruisers and troops dispersed, and golden Peace reigned once more
supreme. Prince Owusu, a drunken, dissolute Eupatrid, who had caused the flutter, when ordered
on board a man-of-war for transportation to a place of safety, relieved the Gold Coast from
further trouble. He was found hanging in the 'bush' behind Elmina Castle. Most men supposed
it to be a case of suicide; a few of course surmised that he had been kidnapped and murdered
by orders from Kumasi.

Since that time to the present day our Protectorate has been free from 'scare.' The affair,
as it happened, did abundant good by banishing all fear for the safety of the Wásá (Wassaw)
diggings. During the worst times not a single English employé of the mines had left his post
to take refuge in the Axim fort. This does them honour, as some of the establishments lay within
handy distance of the ferocious black barbarians.

The native chiefs, especially 'King Blay,' proved themselves able and willing to aid us in
whatever difficulties might occur. The kingdom of Gyáman further showed that it can hold its
own against shorn Ashanti, or rather that it is becoming the more powerful of the two. The
utter failure of the scare is an earnest that, under normal circumstances, while King Mensah,
a middle-aged man, occupies the 'stool,' we shall hear no more of 'threatened Ashanti invasions.'

But the true way to pacify the despotism is to allow Ashanti to 'make a beach'--in other words,
to establish a port. This measure I have supported for the last score of years, but to very
little purpose. The lines of objection are two. The first is in the mercantile. As all the
world knows, commercial interests are sure to be supported against almost any other in a reformed
House of Commons; and, in the long run, they gain the day. The Coast-tribes under our protection
are mere brokers and go-betweens, backed up and supported by the wholesale merchant, because
he prefers quieta non movere, and he fears lest the change be from good to bad. I, on the other
hand, contend that both our commerce and customs would gain, in quantity as well as in quality,
by direct dealings with the peoples of the interior. The second, or sentimental, line belongs
to certain newspapers; and even their intelligence can hardly believe the ad captandum farrago
which they indite. The favourite 'bunkum' is about 'baring the Christian negro's throat to
the Ashanti knife.' But the Fantis and other Coast-tribes were originally as murderous and
bloodthirsty in their battles and religious rites as their northern neighbours: if there be
any improvement it is wholly due to the presence and the pressure, physical as well as moral,
of Europeans--of Christians, if you like. Even Whydah is not blood-stained like Agbóme, because
it has been occupied by a few slavers, white and brown. Why, then, should the Ashantis be refused
the opportunity and the means of amendment? Ten years' experience in Africa teaches me that
they would be as easily reformed as the maritime peoples; and it is evident that the sentimentalist,
if he added honesty and common sense to the higher quality, should be the first to advocate
the trial.

But I would not allow the Ashantis to hold a harbour anywhere near Elmina. They should have
their 'mile' and beach east of the Volta River, where they would soon effect a lodgment, despite
all the opposition of their sanguinary friends and our ferocious enemies the Awunah and the
Krepi (Crepee) savages.

I will end this paper with a short notice of the kingdom of Gyáman, generally written Gaman
and too often pronounced 'Gammon.' Its strength and vigour are clearly increasing; it is one
of the richest of gold-fields, and it lies directly upon the route to the interior. Of late
years it has almost faded from the map, but it is described at full length in the pages of
Barbot (1700) and Bosman (1727), of Bowdich (1818), and of Dupuis (1824). They assign to it
for limits Mandenga-land to the north and west; to the south, Aowin and Bassam, and the Tando
or eastern fork of the Assini to the east. This Tando, which some moderns have represented
as an independent stream, divides it from Ashanti-land, lying to the south and the south-east.
Dupuis places the old capital, Bontuko, whence the Gyámans were formerly called 'Bontukos,'
eight stages north-west of Kumasi; and the new capital, Huraboh, five marches beyond Bontuko.
The country, level and grassy, begins the region north of the great forest-zone which subtends
the maritime mangrove swamps. It breeds horses and can command Moslem allies, equestrian races
feared by the Ashantis.

The Gyámans, according to their tradition, migrated, or rather were driven, southwards from
their northern homes. This was also, as I have said, the case with the Fantis and Ashantis;
the latter occupied their present habitat about 1640, and at once became the foes of all their
neighbours. King Osai Tutu, 'the Great,' first of Ashanti despot-kings (1719), made Gyáman
tributary. The conquest was completed by his brother-successor, Osai Apoko (1731), who fined
Abo, the neighbour-king, in large sums of gold and fixed an annual subsidy. Gyáman, however,
rebelled against Osai Kwájo (Cudjoe), the fourth of the dynasty (1752), and twice defeated
him with prodigious slaughter. The Ashanti invader brought to his aid Moslem cavalry, and succeeded
in again subjugating the insurgents. The conquered took no action against the fifth king, but
they struck for independence under Osai Apoko II (1797). Aided by Moslem and other allies,
they crossed the Tando and fought so sturdily that the enemy 'liberally bestowed upon them
the titles of warlike and courageous.' The Ashantis at length compelled the Moslems of their
country to join them, and ended by inflicting a crushing defeat upon the invaders.

Osai Tutu Kwámina, on coming to the throne (1800), engaged in the campaign against Gyáman called,
for distinction, the 'first Bontuko war.' He demanded from King Adinkara his ancestral and
royal stool, which was thickly studded and embossed with precious metal. The craven yielded
it and purchased peace. His brave sister presently replaced it by a seat of solid gold: this
the Ashanti again requisitioned, together with a large gold ornament in the shape of an elephant,
said to have been dug from some ruins. The Amazon replied, with some detail and in the 'spade'
language, that she and her brother should exchange sexes, and that she would fight à l'outrance;
whereupon the Ashanti, with many compliments about her bravery, gave her twelve months to prepare
for a campaign.

In 1818 Dupuis found Ashanti engaged in the 'second Bontuko war' with Adinkara, who had again
thrown off his allegiance. But small-pox was raging in the capital, and this campaign ended
(1819-20) with the defeat and death of the womanly monarch, with a massacre of 10,000 prisoners,
and with the sale of 20,000 captives. Thus Gyáman was again annexed to Ashanti-land as a province,
instead of enjoying the rank of a tributary kingdom; and the conqueror's dominions extended
from Cape Lahou (W. long. 4º 36') through Gyáman to the Volta River (E. long. 0º 42' 18"),
a coast-line of some 318 direct geographical miles.

Gyáman, however, seems to have had a passion for liberty. She fought again and again to recover
what she had lost in 1820; and, on more occasions than one, she was successful in battle. During
the 'Ashanti scare' the sturdy kingdom was preparing for serious hostilities; and a little
war of six or seven months had already been waged between the neighbours. The late Prince Owusu,
before mentioned, deposed before the authorities of our Protectorate as follows: 'At Kumasi
I was ordered to eat the skull of the late King of Gyáman, which was kept there as a trophy
from the conquest of Gyáman; but I did not do it.' He also asserted that, in 1879, a white
man, Nielson, and his interpreter, Huydecooper, had been sent by an intriguer to Gyáman, bearing
a pretended message from the British Government and the Fanti chiefs, enjoining the King to
conclude peace with the Ashantis, and to restore their 3,700 captives. Neither of these men
saw the ruler of Gyáman, and it is believed that Nielson, having begun a quarrel by firing
upon the people, was killed in the fray.

At this moment Gyáman is battling with her old enemies, and threatens to be a dangerous rival,
if not a conqueror. Here, then, we may raise a strong barrier against future threats of Ashanti
invasion, and make security more secure. The political officers of the Protectorate will be
the best judges of the steps to be taken; and, if they are active and prudent, we shall hear
no more of the Kumasi bugbear.

       *       *       *       *       *

§2. THE LABOUR-QUESTION IN WESTERN AFRICA.

In their present condition our African colonies are colonies only because they are administered
by the Colonial Office.

