By this time, we approached the house which covered the steering-gear at the ship's stern,
and in which were buckets containing a dozen small turtles, purchased at the island of Ascension,
where we stopped to water after the refusal at St. Helena. The turtle at once attracted the
stranger's notice, and he promptly offered to purchase them. I stated that only half the lot
belonged to me, but that I would sell the whole, provided he was able to pay. In a moment,
my persecutor drew forth a well-worn pocket-book, and handing me six dollars, asked whether
I was satisfied with the price. The dollars were unquestionable gleams, if not absolute proofs,
of honesty, and I am sure my heart would have melted had not the purchaser insisted on taking
one of the buckets to convey the turtles home. Now, as these charming implements were part
of the ship's pride, as well as property, and had been laboriously adorned by our marine artists
with a spread eagle and the vessel's name, I resisted the demand, offering, at the same time,
to return the money. But my turtle-dealer was not to be repulsed so easily; his ugly smile
still sneered in my face as he endeavored to push me aside and drag the bucket from my hand.
I soon found that he was the stronger of the two, and that it would be impossible for me to
rescue my bucket fairly; so, giving it a sudden twist and shake, I contrived to upset both
water and turtles on the deck, thus sprinkling the feet and coat-tails of the veteran with
a copious ablution. To my surprise, however, the tormentor's cursed grin not only continued
but absolutely expanded to an immoderate laugh, the uproariousness of which was increased by
another suspicious Bostonian, who leaped on deck during our dispute. By this time I was in
a red heat. My lips were white, my checks in a blaze, and my eyes sparks. Beyond myself with
ferocious rage, I gnashed my teeth, and buried them in the hand which I could not otherwise
release from its grasp on the bucket. In the scramble, I either lost or destroyed part of my
bank notes; yet, being conqueror at last, I became clement, and taking up my turtles, once
more insisted upon the departure of my annoyers. There is no doubt that I larded my language
with certain epithets, very current among sailors, most of which are learned more rapidly by
foreigners than the politer parts of speech.

Still the abominable monster, nothing daunted by my onslaught, rushed to the cabin, and would
doubtless have descended, had not I been nimbler than he in reaching the doors, against which
I placed my back, in defiance. Here, of course, another battle ensued, enlivened by a chorus
of laughter from a crowd of laborers on the wharf. This time I could not bite, yet I kept the
apparent thief at bay with my feet, kicking his shins unmercifully whenever he approached,
and swearing in the choicest Tuscan.

He who knows any thing of Italian character, especially when it is additionally spiced by French
condiments, may imagine the intense rage to which so volcanic a nature as mine was, by this
time, fully aroused. Language and motion were nearly exhausted. I could neither speak nor strike.
The mind's passion had almost produced the body's paralysis. Tears began to fall from my eyes:
but still he laughed! At length, I suddenly flung wide the cabin doors, and leaping below at
a bound, seized from the rack a loaded musket, with which I rushed upon deck. As soon as the
muzzle appeared above the hatchway, my tormentor sprang over the ship, and by the time I reached
the ladder, I found him on the wharf, surrounded by a laughing and shouting crowd. I shook
my head menacingly at the group; and shouldering my firelock, mounted guard at the gangway.
It was fully a quarter of an hour that I paraded (occasionally ramming home my musket's charge,
and varying the amusement by an Italian defiance to the jesters), before the tardy mate made
his appearance on the wharf. But what was my consternation, when I beheld him advance deferentially
to my pestilent visitor, and taking off his hat, respectfully offer to conduct him on board!
This was a great lesson to me in life on the subject of "appearances." The shabby old individual
was no less a personage than the celebrated William Gray, of Boston, owner of the Galatea and
cargo, and proprietor of many a richer craft then floating on every sea.

But Mr. Gray was a forgiving enemy. As he left the ship that morning, he presented me fifty
dollars, "in exchange," he said, "for the six destroyed in protection of his property;" and,
on the day of my discharge, he not only paid the wages of my voyage, but added fifty dollars
more to aid my schooling in scientific navigation.

Four years after, I again met this distinguished merchant at the Marlborough Hotel, in Boston.
I was accompanied, on that occasion, by an uncle who visited the United States on a commercial
tour. When my relative mentioned my name to Mr. Gray, that gentleman immediately recollected
me, and told my venerable kinsman that he never received such abuse as I bestowed on him in
July, 1820! The sting of my teeth, he declared, still tingled in his hand, while the kicks
I bestowed on his ankles, occasionally displayed the scars they had left on his limbs. He seemed
particularly annoyed, however, by some caustic remarks I had made about his protuberant stomach,
and forgave the blows but not the language.

My uncle, who was somewhat of a tart disciplinarian, gave me an extremely black look, while,
in French, he demanded an explanation of my conduct. I knew Mr. Gray, however, better than
my relative; and so, without heeding his reprimand, I answered, in English, that if I cursed
the ship's owner on that occasion, it was my debut in the English language on the American
continent; and as my Anglo-Saxon education had been finished in a forecastle, it was not to
be expected I should be select in my vocabulary. "Never the less," I added, "Mr. Gray was so
delighted with my accolade, that he valued my defence of his property and our delicious tête-à-tête
at the sum of a hundred dollars!"

CHAPTER II.

The anecdote told in the last chapter revived my uncle's recollection of several instances
of my early impetuosity; among which was a rencounter with Lord Byron, while that poet was
residing at his villa on the slope of Monte Negro near Leghorn, which he took the liberty to
narrate to Mr. Gray.

A commercial house at that port, in which my uncle had some interest, was the noble lord's
banker;--and, one day, while my relative and the poet were inspecting some boxes recently arrived
from Greece, I was dispatched to see them safely deposited in the warehouse. Suddenly, Lord
Byron demanded a pencil. My uncle had none with him, but remembering that I had lately been
presented one in a handsome silver case, requested the loan of it. Now, as this was my first
silver possession, I was somewhat reluctant to let it leave my possession even for a moment,
and handed it to his lordship with a bad grace. When the poet had made his memorandum, he paused
a moment, as if lost in thought, and then very unceremoniously--but, doubtless, in a fit of
abstraction--put the pencil in his pocket. If I had already visited America at that time, it
is likely that I would have warned the Englishman of his mistake on the spot; but, as children
in the Old World are rather more curbed in their intercourse with elders than on this side
of the Atlantic, I bore the forgetfulness as well as I could until next morning. Summoning
all my resolution, I repaired without my uncle's knowledge to the poet's house at an early
hour, and after much difficulty was admitted to his room. He was still in bed. Every body has
heard of Byron's peevishness, when disturbed or intruded on. He demanded my business in a petulant
and offensive tone. I replied, respectfully, that on the preceding day I loaned him a silver
pencil,--strongly emphasizing and repeating the word silver,--which, I was grieved to say,
he forgot to return. Byron reflected a moment, and then declared he had restored it to me on
the spot! I mildly but firmly denied the fact; while his lordship as sturdily reasserted it.
In a short time, we were both in such a passion that Byron commanded me to leave the room.
I edged out of the apartment with the slow, defying air of angry boyhood; but when I reached
the door, I suddenly turned, and looking at him with all the bitterness I felt for his nation,
called him, in French, "an English hog!" Till then our quarrel had been waged in Italian. Hardly
were the words out of my mouth when his lordship leaped from the bed, and in the scantiest
drapery imaginable, seized me by the collar, inflicting such a shaking as I would willingly
have exchanged for a tertian ague from the Pontine marshes. The sudden air-bath probably cooled
his choler, for, in a few moments, we found ourselves in a pacific explanation about the luckless
pencil. Hitherto I had not mentioned my uncle; but the moment I stated the relationship, Byron
became pacified and credited my story. After searching his pockets once more ineffectually
for the lost silver, he presented me his own gold pencil instead, and requested me to say why
I "cursed him in French?"

"My father was a Frenchman, my lord," said I.

"And your mother?"

"She is an Italian, sir."

"Ah! no wonder, then, you called me an 'English hog.' The hatred runs in the blood; you could
not help it."

After a moment's hesitation, he continued,--still pacing the apartment in his night linen,--"You
don't like the English, do you, my boy?"

"No," said I, "I don't."

"Why?" returned Byron, quietly.

"Because my father died fighting them," replied I.

"Then, youngster, you have a right to hate them," said the poet, as he put me gently out of
the door, and locked it on the inside.

A week after, one of the porters of my uncle's warehouse offered to sell, at an exorbitant
price, what he called "Lord Byron's pencil," declaring that his lordship had presented it to
him. My uncle was on the eve of bargaining with the man, when he perceived his own initials
on the silver. In fact, it was my lost gift. Byron, in his abstraction, had evidently mistaken
the porter for myself; so the servant was rewarded with a trifling gratuity, while my virtuoso
uncle took the liberty to appropriate the golden relic of Byron to himself, and put me off
with the humbler remembrance of his honored name.

These, however, are episodes. Let us return once more to the Galatea and her worthy commander.

Captain Towne retired to Salem after the hands were discharged, and took me with him to reside
in his family until he was ready for another voyage. In looking back through the vista of a
stormy and adventurous life, my memory lights on no happier days than those spent in this sea-faring
emporium. Salem, in 1821, was my paradise. I received more kindness, enjoyed more juvenile
pleasures, and found more affectionate hospitality in that comfortable city than I can well
describe. Every boy was my friend. No one laughed at my broken English, but on the contrary,
all seemed charmed by my foreign accent. People thought proper to surround me with a sort of
romantic mystery, for, perhaps, there was a flavor of the dashing dare-devil in my demeanor,
which imparted influence over homelier companions. Besides this, I soon got the reputation
of a scholar. I was considered a marvel in languages, inasmuch as I spoke French, Italian,
Spanish, English, and professed a familiarity with Latin. I remember there was a wag in Salem,
who, determining one day to test my acquaintance with the latter tongue, took me into a neighboring
druggist's, where there were some Latin volumes, and handed me one with the request to translate
a page, either verbally or on paper. Fortunately, the book he produced was Æsop, whose fables
had been so thoroughly studied by me two years before, that I even knew some of them by heart.
Still, as I was not very well versed in the niceties of English, I thought it prudent to make
my version of the selected fable in French; and, as there was a neighbor who knew the latter
language perfectly, my translation was soon rendered into English, and the proficiency of the
"Italian boy" conceded.

       *       *       *       *       *

I sailed during five years from Salem on voyages to various parts of the world, always employing
my leisure, while on shore and at sea, in familiarizing myself minutely with the practical
and scientific details of the profession to which I designed devoting my life. I do not mean
to narrate the adventures of those early voyages, but I cannot help setting down a single anecdote
of that fresh and earnest period, in order to illustrate the changes that time and "circumstances"
are said to work on human character.

In my second voyage to India, I was once on shore with the captain at Quallahbattoo, in search
of pepper, when a large proa, or Malay canoe, arrived at the landing crammed with prisoners,
from one of the islands. The unfortunate victims were to be sold as slaves. They were the first
slaves I had seen! As the human cargo was disembarked, I observed one of the Malays dragging
a handsome young female by the hair along the beach. Cramped by long confinement in the wet
bottom of the canoe, the shrieking girl was unable to stand or walk. My blood was up quickly.
I ordered the brute to desist from his cruelty; and, as he answered with a derisive laugh,
I felled him to the earth with a single blow of my boat-hook. This impetuous vindication of
humanity forced us to quit Quallahbattoo in great haste; but, at the age of seventeen, my feelings
in regard to slavery were very different from what this narrative may disclose them to have
become in later days.

When my apprenticeship was over, I made two or three successful voyages as mate, until--I am
ashamed to say,--that a "disappointment" caused me to forsake my employers, and to yield to
the temptations of reckless adventure. This sad and early blight overtook me at Antwerp,--a
port rather noted for the backslidings of young seamen. My hard-earned pay soon diminished
very sensibly, while I was desperately in love with a Belgian beauty, who made a complete fool
of me--for at least three months! From Antwerp, I betook myself to Paris to vent my second
"disappointment." The pleasant capital of la belle France was a cup that I drained at a single
draught. Few young men of eighteen or twenty have lived faster. The gaming tables at Frascati's
and the Palais Royal finished my consumptive purse; and, leaving an empty trunk as a recompense
for my landlord, I took "French leave" one fine morning, and hastened to sea.

The reader will do me the justice to believe that nothing but the direst necessity compelled
me to embark on board a British vessel, bound to Brazil. The captain and his wife who accompanied
him, were both stout, handsome Irish people, of equal age, but addicted to fondness for strong
and flavored drinks.

My introduction on board was signalized by the ceremonious bestowal upon me of the key of the
spirit-locker, with a strict injunction from the commander to deny more than three glasses
daily either to his wife or himself. I hardly comprehended this singular order at first, but,
in a few days, I became aware of its propriety. About eleven o'clock her ladyship generally
approached when I was serving out the men's ration of gin, and requested me to fill her tumbler.
Of course, I gallantly complied. When I returned from deck below with the bottle, she again
required a similar dose, which, with some reluctance, I furnished. At dinner the dame drank
porter, but passed off the gin on her credulous husband as water. This system of deception
continued as long as the malt liquor lasted, so that her ladyship received and swallowed daily
a triple allowance of capital grog. Indeed, it is quite astonishing what quantities of the
article can sometimes be swallowed by sea-faring women. The oddness of their appetite for the
cordials is not a little enhanced by the well-known aversion the sex have to spirituous fluids,
in every shape, on shore. Perhaps the salt air may have something to do with the acquired relish;
but, as I am not composing an essay on temperance, I shall leave the discussion to wiser physiologists.

My companions' indulgence illustrated another diversity between the sexes, which I believe
is historically true from the earliest records to the present day. The lady broke her rule,
but the captain adhered faithfully to his. Whilst on duty, the allotted three glasses completed
his potations. But when we reached Rio de Janeiro, and there was no longer need of abstinence,
save for the sake of propriety, both my shipmates gave loose to their thirst and tempers. They
drank, quarrelled, and kissed, with more frequency and fervor than any creatures it has been
my lot to encounter throughout an adventurous life. After we got the vessel into the inner
harbor,--though not without a mishap, owing to the captain's drunken stubbornness,--my Irish
friends resolved to take lodgings for a while on shore. For two days they did not make their
appearance; but toward the close of the third, they returned, "fresh," as they said, "from
the theatre." It was very evident that the jolly god had been their companion; and, as I was
not a little scandalized by the conjugal scenes which usually closed these frolics, I hastened
to order tea under the awning on deck, while I betook myself to a hammock which was slung on
the main boom. Just as I fell off into pleasant dreams, I was roused from my nap by a prelude
to the opera. Madame gave her lord the lie direct. A loaf of bread, discharged against her
head across the table, was his reply. Not content with this harmless demonstration of rage,
he seized the four corners of the table-cloth, and gathering the tea-things and food in the
sack, threw the whole overboard into the bay. In a flash, the tigress fastened on his scanty
locks with one hand, while, with the other, she pummelled his eyes and nose. Badly used as
he was, I must confess that the captain proved too generous to retaliate on that portion of
his spouse where female charms are most bewitching and visible; still, I am much mistaken if
the sound spanking she received did not elsewhere leave marks of physical vigor that would
have been creditable to a pugilist.

It was remarkable that these human tornados were as violent and brief as those which scourge
tropical lands as well as tropical characters. In a quarter of an hour there was a dead calm.
The silence of the night, on those still and star-lit waters, was only broken by a sort of
chirrup, that might have been mistaken for a cricket, but which I think was a kiss. Indeed,
I was rapidly going off again to sleep, when I was called to give the key of the spirit-locker,--a
glorious resource that never failed as a solemn seal of reconciliation and bliss.

Next morning, before I awoke, the captain went ashore, and when his wife, at breakfast, inquired
my knowledge of the night's affray, my gallantry forced me to confess that I was one of the
soundest sleepers on earth or water, and, moreover, that I was surprised to learn there had
been the least difference between such happy partners. In spite of my simplicity, the lady
insisted on confiding her griefs, with the assurance that she would not have been half so angry
had not her spouse foolishly thrown her silver spoons into the sea, with the bread and butter.
She grew quite eloquent on the pleasures of married life, and told me of many a similar reproof
she had been forced to give her husband during their voyages. It did him good, she said, and
kept him wholesome. In fact, she hoped, that if ever I married, I would have the luck to win
a guardian like herself. Of course, I was again most gallantly silent. Still, I could not help
reserving a decision as to the merits of matrimony; for present appearances certainly did not
demonstrate the bliss I had so often read and heard of. At any rate, I resolved, that if ever
I ventured upon a trial of love, it should, at least, in the first instance, be love without
liquor!

On our return to Europe we called at Dover for orders, and found that Antwerp was our destination.
We made sail at sunset, but as the wind was adverse and the weather boisterous, we anchored
for two days in the Downs. At length, during a lull of the gale, we sailed for the mouth of
the Scheldt; but, as we approached the coast of Holland, the wind became light and baffling,
so that we were unable to enter the river. We had not taken a pilot at Ramsgate, being confident
of obtaining one off Flushing. At sundown, the storm again arose in all its fury from the north-west;
but all attempts to put back to England were unavailing, for we dared not show a rag of sail
before the howling tempest. It was, indeed, a fearful night of wind, hail, darkness, and anxiety.
At two o'clock in the morning, we suddenly grounded on one of the numerous banks off Flushing.
Hardly had we struck when the sea made a clean sweep over us, covering the decks with sand,
and snapping the spars like pipe-stems. The captain was killed instantly by the fall of a top-gallant
yard, which crushed his skull; while the sailors, who in such moments seem possessed by utter
recklessness, broke into the spirit-room and drank to excess. For awhile I had some hope that
the stanchness of our vessel's hull might enable us to cling to her till daylight, but she
speedily bilged and began to fill.

After this it would have been madness to linger. The boats were still safe. The long one was
quickly filled by the crew, under the command of the second mate--who threw an anker of gin
into the craft before he leaped aboard,--while I reserved the jolly-boat for myself, the captain's
widow, the cook, and the steward. The long-boat was never heard of.

All night long that dreadful nor'wester howled along and lashed the narrow sea between England
and the Continent; yet I kept our frail skiff before it, hoping, at daylight, to descry the
lowlands of Belgium. The heart-broken woman rested motionless in the stern-sheets. We covered
her with all the available garments, and, even in the midst of our own griefs, could not help
feeling that the suddenness of her double desolation had made her perfectly unconscious of
our dreary surroundings.

Shortly after eight o'clock a cry of joy announced the sight of land within a short distance.
The villagers of Bragden, who soon descried us, hastened to the beach, and rushing knee deep
into the water, signalled that the shore was safe after passing the surf. The sea was churned
by the storm into a perfect foam. Breakers roared, gathered, and poured along like avalanches.
Still, there was no hope for us but in passing the line of these angry sentinels. Accordingly,
I watched the swell, and pulling firmly, bow on, into the first of the breakers, we spun with
such arrowy swiftness across the intervening space, that I recollect nothing until we were
clasped in the arms of the brawny Belgians on the beach.

But, alas! the poor widow was no more. I cannot imagine when she died. During the four hours
of our passage from the wreck to land, her head rested on my lap; yet no spasm of pain or convulsion
marked the moment of her departure.

That night the parish priest buried the unfortunate lady, and afterwards carried round a plate,
asking alms,--not for masses to insure the repose of her soul,--but to defray the expenses
of the living to Ostend.

CHAPTER III.

I had no time or temper to be idle. In a week, I was on board a Dutch galliot, bound to Havana;
but I soon perceived that I was again under the command of two captains--male and female. The
regular master superintended the navigation, while the bloomer controlled the whole of us.
Indeed, the dame was the actual owner of the craft, and, from skipper to cabin-boy, governed
not only our actions but our stomachs. I know not whether it was piety or economy that swayed
her soul, but I never met a person who was so rigid as this lady in the observance of the church
calendar, especially whenever a day of abstinence allowed her to deprive us of our beef. Nothing
but my destitution compelled me to ship in this craft; still, to say the truth, I had well-nigh
given up all idea of returning to the United States, and determined to engage in any adventurous
expedition that my profession offered. In 1824, it will be remembered, Mexico, the Spanish
main, Peru, and the Pacific coasts, were renowned for the fortunes they bestowed on enterprise;
and, as the galliot was bound to Havana, I hailed her as a sort of floating bridge to my EL DORADO.

On the seventh night after our departure, while beating out of the bay of Biscay with a six-knot
breeze, in a clear moonlight, we ran foul of a vessel which approached us on the opposite tack.
Whence she sprang no one could tell. In an instant, she appeared and was on us with a dreadful
concussion. Every man was prostrated on deck and all our masts were carried away. From the
other vessel we heard shrieks and a cry of despair; but the ill-omened miscreant disappeared
as rapidly as she approached, and left us floating a helpless log, on a sea proverbial for storms.

We contrived, however, to reach the port of Ferrol, in Spain, where we were detained four months,
in consequence of the difficulty of obtaining the materials for repairs, notwithstanding this
place is considered the best and largest ship-yard of Castile.

It was at Ferrol that I met with a singular adventure, which was well-nigh depriving me of
my personal identity, as Peter Schlemhil was deprived of his shadow. I went one afternoon in
my boat to the other side of the harbor to obtain some pieces of leather from a tannery, and,
having completed my purchase, was lounging slowly towards the quay, when I stopped at a house
for a drink of water. I was handed a tumbler by the trim-built, black-eyed girl, who stood
in the doorway, and whose rosy lips and sparkling eyes were more the sources of my thirst than
the water; but, while I was drinking, the damsel ran into the dwelling, and hastily returned
with her mother and another sister, who stared at me a moment without saying a word, and simultaneously
fell upon my neck, smothering my lips and cheeks with repeated kisses!

"Oh! mi querido hijo," said the mother.

"Carissimo Antonio," sobbed the daughter.

"Mi hermano!" exclaimed her sister.

"Dear son, dear Antonio, dear brother! Come into the house; where have you been? Your grandmother
is dying to see you once more! Don't delay an instant, but come in without a word! Por dios!
that we should have caught you at last, and in such a way: Ave Maria! madrecita, aqui viene
Antonito!"

In the midst of all these exclamations, embraces, fondlings, and kisses, it may easily be imagined
that I stood staring about me with wide eyes and mouth, and half-drained tumbler in hand, like
one in a dream. I asked no questions, but as the dame was buxom, and the girls were fresh,
I kissed in return, and followed unreluctantly as they half dragged, half carried me into their
domicil. On the door-sill of the inner apartment I found myself locked in the skinny arms of
a brown and withered crone, who was said to be my grandmother, and, of course, my youthful
moustache was properly bedewed with the moisture of her toothless mouth.

As soon as I was seated, I took the liberty to say,--though without any protest against this
charming assault,--that I fancied there might possibly be some mistake; but I was quickly silenced.
My madrecita declared at once, and in the presence of my four shipmates, that, six years before,
I left her on my first voyage in a Dutch vessel; that my querido padre, had gone to bliss two
years after my departure; and, accordingly, that now, I, Antonio Gomez y Carrasco, was the
only surviving male of the family, and, of course, would never more quit either her, my darling
sisters, or the old pobrecita, our grandmother. This florid explanation was immediately closed
like the pleasant air of an opera by a new chorus of kisses, nor can there be any doubt that
I responded to the embraces of my sweet hermanas with the most gratifying fraternity.

Our charming quartette lasted in all its harmony for half an hour, during which volley after
volley of family secrets was discharged into my eager ears. So rapid was the talk, and so quickly
was its thread taken up and spun out by each of the three, that I had no opportunity to interpose.
At length, however, in a momentary lull and in a jocular manner,--but in rather bad Spanish,--I
ventured to ask my loving and talkative mamma, "what amount of property my worthy father had
deemed proper to leave on earth for his son when he took his departure to rest con Dios?" I
thought it possible that this agreeable drama was a Spanish joke, got up al' improvista, and
that I might end it by exploding the dangerous mine of money: besides this, it was growing
late, and my return to the galliot was imperative.

But alas! my question brought tears in an instant into my mother's eyes, and I saw that the
scene was not a jest. Accordingly, I hastened, in all seriousness, to explain and insist on
their error. I protested with all the force of my Franco-Italian nature and Spanish rhetoric,
against the assumed relationship. But all was unavailing; they argued and persisted; they brought
in the neighbors; lots of old women and old men, with rusty cloaks or shawls, with cigars or
cigarillos in mouth, formed a jury of inquest; so that, in the end, there was an unanimous
verdict in favor of my Galician nativity!

Finding matters had indeed taken so serious a turn, and knowing the impossibility of eradicating
an impression from the female mind when it becomes imbedded with go much apparent conviction,
I resolved to yield; and, assuming the manner of a penitent prodigal, I kissed the girls, embraced
my mother, passed my head over both shoulders of my grand-dame, and promised my progenitors
a visit next day.

As I did not keep my word, and two suns descended without my return, the imaginary "mother"
applied to the ministers of law to enforce her rights over the truant boy. The Alcalde, after
hearing my story, dismissed the claim; but my dissatisfied relatives summoned me, on appeal,
before the governor of the district, nor was it without infinite difficulty that I at last
succeeded in shaking off their annoying consanguinity.

I have always been at a loss to account for this queer mistake. It is true that my father was
in Spain with the French army during Napoleon's invasion, but that excellent gentleman was
a faithful spouse as well as valiant soldier, and I do not remember that he ever sojourned
in the pleasant port of Ferrol!

       *       *       *       *       *

At length, we sailed for Havana, and nothing of importance occurred to break the monotony of
our hot and sweltering voyage, save a sudden flurry of jealousy on the part of the captain,
who imagined I made an attempt to conquer the pious and economical heart of his wife! In truth,
nothing was further from my mind or taste than such an enterprise; but as the demon had complete
possession of him, and his passion was stimulated by the lies of a cabin-boy, I was forced
to undergo an inquisitorial examination, which I resisted manfully but fruitlessly. The Bloomer-dame,
who knew her man, assumed such an air of outraged innocence and calumniated virtue, interlarded
with sobs, tears, and hysterics, that her perplexed husband was quite at his wit's end, but
terminated the scene by abruptly ordering me to my state-room.

This was at nightfall. I left the cabin willingly but with great mortification; yet the surly
pair eyed each other with so much anger that I had some fear for the denouement. I know not
what passed during the silent watches of that night; but doubtless woman's witchcraft had much
to do in pouring oil on the seared heart of the skipper. At daylight he emerged from his cabin
with orders to have the tell-tale cabin-boy soundly thrashed; and, when Madame mounted the
deck, I saw at a glance that her influence was completely restored. Nor was I neglected in
this round of reconciliation. In the course of the day, I was requested to resume my duty on
board, but I stubbornly refused. Indeed, my denial caused the captain great uneasiness, for
he was a miserable navigator, and, now that we approached the Bahamas, my services were chiefly
requisite. The jealous scamp was urgent in desiring me to forget the past and resume duty;
still I declined, especially as his wife informed me in private that there would perhaps be
peril in my compliance.

The day after we passed the "Hole in the Wall" and steered for Salt Key, we obtained no meridian
observation, and no one on board, except myself, was capable of taking a lunar, which in our
position, among unknown keys and currents, was of the greatest value. I knew this troubled
the skipper, yet, after his wife's significant warning, I did not think it wise to resume my
functions. Nevertheless, I secretly made calculations and watched the vessel's course. Another
day went by without a noontide observation; but, at midnight, I furtively obtained a lunar,
by the result of which I found we were drifting close to the Cuba reefs, about five miles from
the CRUZ DEL PADRE.

As soon as I was sure of my calculation and sensible of imminent danger, I did not hesitate
to order the second officer,--whose watch it was,--to call all hands and tack ship. At the
same time, I directed the helmsman to luff the galliot close into the wind's eye.

But the new mate, proud of his command, refused to obey until the captain was informed; nor
would he call that officer, inasmuch as no danger was visible ahead on the allotted course.
But time was precious. Delay would lose us. As I felt confident of my opinion, I turned abruptly
from the disobedient mariners, and letting go the main brace, brought the vessel to with the
topsail aback. Quickly, then, I ordered the watch as it rushed aft, to clew up the mainsail;--but
alas! no one would obey; and, in the fracas, the captain, who rushed on deck ignorant of the
facts or danger, ordered me back to my state-room with curses for my interference in his skilful
navigation.

With a shrug of my shoulders, I obeyed. Remonstrance was useless. For twenty minutes the galliot
cleft the waters on her old course, when the look-out screamed: "Hard up!--rocks and breakers
dead ahead!"

"Put down the helm!" yelled the confused second mate;--but the galliot lost her headway, and,
taken aback, shaved the edge of a foam-covered rock, dropping astern on a reef with seven feet
water around her.

All was consternation;--sails flapping; breakers roaring; ropes snapping and beating; masts
creaking; hull thumping; men shouting! The captain and his wife were on deck in the wink of
an eye. Every one issued an order and no one obeyed. At last, the lady shouted--"let go the
anchor!"--the worst command that could be given,--and down went the best bower and the second
anchor, while the vessel swung round, and dashed flat on both of them. No one seemed to think
of clewing up the sails, and thereby lessening the impetuous surges of the unfortunate galliot.

Our sad mishap occurred about one o'clock in the morning. Fortunately there was not much wind
and the sea was tolerably calm, so that we could recognize, and, in some degree, control our
situation;--yet, every thing on board appeared given over to Batavian stupidity and panic.

My own feelings may be understood by those who have calmly passed through danger, while they
beheld their companions unmanned by fear or lack of coolness. There was no use of my interference,
for no one would heed me. At last the captain's wife, who was probably the most collected individual
on board, called my name loudly, and in the presence of officers and crew, who, by this time
were generally crowded on the quarter-deck, entreated me to save her ship!

Of course, I sprang to duty. Every sail was clewed up, while the anchors were weighed to prevent
our thumping on them. I next ordered the boats to be lowered; and, taking a crew in one, directed
the captain to embark in another to seek an escape from our perilous trap. At daylight, we
ascertained that we had crossed the edge of the reef at high water, yet it would be useless
to attempt to force her back, as she was already half a foot buried in the soft and mushy outcroppings
of coral.

Soon after sunrise, we beheld, at no great distance, one of those low sandy keys which are
so well-known to West Indian navigators; while, further in the distance, loomed up the blue
and beautiful outline of the highlands of Cuba. The sea was not much ruffled by swell or waves;
but as we gazed at the key, which we supposed deserted, we saw a boat suddenly shoot from behind
one of its points and approach our wreck. The visitors were five in number; their trim, beautiful
boat was completely furnished with fishing implements, and four of the hands spoke Spanish
only, while the patron, or master, addressed us in French. The whole crew were dressed in flannel
shirts, the skirts of which were belted by a leather strap over their trowsers, and when the
wind suddenly dashed the flannel aside, I saw they had long knives concealed beneath it.

The patron of these fellows offered to aid us in lightening the galliot and depositing the
cargo on the key; where, he said, there was a hut in which he would guarantee the safety of
our merchandise until, at the full of the moon, we could float the vessel from the reef. He
offered, moreover, to pilot us out of harm's way; and, for all his services in salvage, we
were to pay him a thousand dollars.

While the master was busy making terms, his companions were rummaging the galliot in order
to ascertain our cargo and armament. It was finally agreed by the captain and his petticoat
commodore, that if, by evening and the return of tide, our galliot would not float, we would
accept the wreckers' offer; and, accordingly, I was ordered to inform them of the resolution.

As soon as I stated our assent, the patron, suddenly assumed an air of deliberation, and insisted
that the money should be paid in hard cash on the spot, and not by drafts on Havana, as originally
required. I thought the demand a significant one, and hoped the joint partners would neither
yield nor admit their ability to do so; but, unfortunately, they assented at once. The nod
and wink I saw the patron immediately bestow on one of his companions, satisfied me of the
imprudence of the concession and the justice of my suspicions.

The fishermen departed to try their luck on the sea, promising to be back at sunset, on their
way to the island. We spent the day in fruitless efforts to relieve the galliot or to find
a channel, so that when the Spaniards returned in the afternoon with a rather careless reiteration
of their proposal, our captain, with some eagerness, made his final arrangements for the cargo's
discharge early next morning. Our skipper had visited the key in the course of the day, and
finding the place of deposit apparently safe, and every thing else seemingly honest, he was
anxious that the night might pass in order that the disembarkation might begin.

The calm quiet of that tropic season soon wore away, and, when I looked landward, at day-dawn,
I perceived two strange boats at anchor near the key. As this gave me some uneasiness, I mentioned
it to the captain and his wife, but they laughed at my suspicions. After an early meal we began
to discharge our heaviest cargo with the fishermen's aid, yet we made little progress towards
completion by the afternoon. At sunset, accounts were compared, and finding a considerable
difference in favor of the wreckers, I was dispatched ashore to ascertain the error. At the
landing I was greeted by several new faces. I particularly observed a Frenchman whom I had
not noticed before. He addressed me with a courteous offer of refreshments. His manners and
language were evidently those of an educated person, while his figure and physiognomy indicated
aristocratic habits or birth, yet his features and complexion bore the strong imprint of that
premature old age which always marks a dissipated career.

After a delightful chat in my mother-tongue with the pleasant stranger, he invited me to spend
the night on shore. I declined politely, and, having rectified the cargo's error, was preparing
to re-embark, when the Frenchman once more approached and insisted on my remaining. I again
declined, asserting that duty forbade my absence. He then remarked that orders had been left
by my countryman the patron to detain me; but if I was so obstinate as to go, I might probably
regret it.

With a laugh, I stepped into my boat, and on reaching the galliot, learned that our skipper
had imprudently avowed the rich nature of our cargo.

Before leaving the vessel that night, the patron took me aside, and inquired whether I received
the invitation to pass the night on the key, and why I had not accepted it? To my great astonishment,
he addressed me in pure Italian; and when I expressed gratitude for his offer, he beset me
with questions about my country, my parents, my age, my objects in life, and my prospects.
Once or twice he threw in the ejaculation of, "poor boy! poor boy!" As he stepped over the
taffrail to enter his boat, I offered my hand, which he first attempted to take,--then suddenly
stopping, rejected the grasp, and, with an abrupt--"No! addio!" he spun away in his boat from
the galliot's side.

I could not help putting these things together in my mind during the glowing twilight. I felt
as if walking in a cold shadow; an unconquerable sense of impending danger oppressed me. I
tried to relieve myself by discussing the signs with the captain, but the phlegmatic Hollander
only scoffed at my suspicions, and bade me sleep off my nervousness.

When I set the first night watch, I took good care to place every case containing valuables
below, and to order the look-out to call all hands at the first appearance or sound of a boat.
Had we been provided with arms, I would have equipped the crew with weapons of defence, but,
unluckily, there was not on board even a rusty firelock or sabre.

       *       *       *       *       *

How wondrously calm was all nature that night! Not a breath of air, or a ripple on the water!
The sky was brilliant with stars, as if the firmament were strewn with silver dust. The full
moon, with its glowing disc, hung some fifteen or twenty degrees above the horizon. The intense
stillness weighed upon my tired limbs and eyes, while I leaned with my elbows on the taffrail,
watching the roll of the vessel as she swung lazily from side to side on the long and weary
swell. Every body but the watch had retired, and I, too, went to my state-room in hope of burying
my sorrows in sleep. But the calm night near the land had so completely filled my berth with
annoying insects, that I was obliged to decamp and take refuge in the stay-sail netting, where,
wrapped in the cool canvas, I was at rest in quicker time than I have taken to tell it.

Notwithstanding my nervous apprehension, a sleep more like the torpor of lethargy than natural
slumber, fell on me at once. I neither stirred nor heard any thing till near two o'clock, when
a piercing shriek from the deck aroused me. The moon had set, but there was light enough to
show the decks abaft filled with men, though I could distinguish neither their persons nor
movements. Cries of appeal, and moans as of wounded or dying, constantly reached me. I roused
myself as well and quickly as I could from the oppression of my deathlike sleep, and tried
to shake off the nightmare. The effort assured me that it was reality and not a dream! In an
instant, that presence of mind which has seldom deserted me, suggested escape. I seized the
gasket, and dropping by aid of it as softly as I could in the water, struck out for shore.
It was time. My plunge into the sea, notwithstanding its caution, had made some noise, and
a rough voice called in Spanish to return or I would be shot.

When I began to go to sea, I took pains to become a good swimmer, and my acquired skill served
well on this occasion. As soon as the voice ceased from the deck, I lay still on the water
until I saw a flash from the bow of the galliot, to which I immediately made a complaisant
bow by diving deeply. This operation I repeated several times, till I was lost in the distant
darkness; nor can I pride myself much on my address in escaping the musket balls, as I have
since had my own aim similarly eluded by many a harmless duck.

After swimming about ten minutes, I threw myself on my back to rest and "take a fresh departure."
It was so dark that I could not see the key, yet, as I still discerned the galliot's masts
relieved against the sky, I was enabled by that beacon to steer my way landward. Naked, with
the exception of trowsers, I had but little difficulty in swimming, so that in less than half
an hour, I touched the key, and immediately sought concealment in a thick growth of mangroves.

I had not been five minutes in this dismal jungle, when such a swarm of mosquitoes beset me,
that I was forced to hurry to the beach and plunge into the water. In this way was I tormented
the whole night. At dawn, I retreated once more to the bushes; and climbing the highest tree
I found,--whose altitude, however, was not more than twelve feet above the sand,--I beheld,
across the calm sea, the dismantled hull of my late home, surrounded by a crowd of boats, which
were rapidly filling with plundered merchandise. It was evident that we had fallen a prey to
pirates; yet I could not imagine why I had been singled from this scene of butchery, to receive
the marks of anxious sympathy that were manifested by the patron and his French companion on
the key. All the morning I continued in my comfortless position, watching their movements,--occasionally
refreshing my parched lips by chewing the bitter berries of the thicket. Daylight, with its
heat, was as intolerable as night, with its venom. The tropical sun and the glaring reflection
from a waveless sea, poured through the calm atmosphere upon my naked flesh, like boiling oil.
My thirst was intense. As the afternoon wore away, I observed several boats tow the lightened
hull of our galliot south-east of the key till it disappeared behind a point of the island.
Up to that moment, my manhood had not forsaken me; but, as the last timber of my vessel was
lost to sight, nature resumed its dominion. Every hope of seeing my old companions was gone;
I was utterly alone. If this narrative were designed to be a sentimental confession, the reader
might see unveiled the ghastly spectacle of a "troubled conscience," nor am I ashamed to say
that no consolation cheered my desolate heart, till I prayed to my Maker that the loss of so
many lives might not be imputed to the wilful malice of a proud and stubborn nature.

CHAPTER IV.

So passed the day. As the sun sank is the west, I began to reflect about obtaining the rest
for mind and body I so much needed. My system was almost exhausted by want of food and water,
while the dreadful tragedy of the preceding night shattered my nerves far more than they ever
suffered amid the trying scenes I have passed through since. It was my first adventure of peril
and of blood; and my soul shrank with the natural recoil that virtue experiences in its earliest
encounter with flagrant crime.

In order to escape the incessant torment of insects, I had just determined to bury my naked
body in the sand, and to cover my head with the only garment I possessed, when I heard a noise
in the neighboring bushes, and perceived a large and savage dog rushing rapidly from side to
side, with his nose to the ground, evidently in search of game or prey. I could not mistake
the nature of his hunt. With the agility of a harlequin, I sprang to my friendly perch just
in time to save myself from his fangs. The foiled and ferocious beast, yelling with rage, gave
an alarm which was quickly responded to by other dogs, three of which--followed by two armed
men--promptly made their appearance beneath my tree. The hunters were not surprised at finding
me, as, in truth, I was the game they sought. Ordering me down, I was commanded to march slowly
before them, and especially warned to make no attempt at flight, as the bloodhounds would tear
me to pieces on the spot. I told my guard that I should of course manifest no such folly as
to attempt as escape from caballeros like themselves,--upon a desolate sand key half a mile
wide,--especially when my alternative refuge could only be found among the fish of the sea.
The self-possession and good humor with which I replied, seemed somewhat to mollify the cross-grained
savages, and we soon approached a habitation, where I was ordered to sit down until the whole
party assembled. After a while, I was invited to join them in their evening meal.

The piquant stew upon which we fed effectually loosened their tongues, so that, in the course
of conversation, I discovered my pursuers had been in quest of me since early morning, though
it was hardly believed I had either escaped the shot, or swam fully a mile amid sharks during
the darkness. Upon this, I ventured to put some ordinary questions, but was quickly informed
that inquisitiveness was considered very unwholesome on the sand keys about Cuba!

At sunset, the whole piratical community of the little isle was assembled. It consisted of
two parties, each headed by its respective chief. Both gangs were apparently subject to the
leadership of the rancho's proprietor; and in this man I recognized the patron who inquired
so minutely about my biography and prospects. His companions addressed him either as "El señor
patron" or "Don Rafael." I was surveyed very closely by the picturesque group of bandits, who
retired into the interior of the rancho,--a hut made of planks and sails rescued from wrecks.
My guard or sentinel consisted of but a single vagabond, who amused himself by whetting a long
knife on a hone, and then trying its sharpness on a single hair and then on his finger. Sometimes
the scoundrel made a face at me, and drew the back of his weapon across his throat.

The conversation within, which I felt satisfied involved my fate, was a long one. I could distinctly
overhear the murmuring roar of talk, although I could not distinguish words. One sentence,
however, did not escape me, and its signification proved particularly interesting:--"Los muertos,"
said the French dandy,--"no hablan,"--Dead men tell no tales!

It is hard to imagine a situation more trying for a young, hearty, and hopeful man. I was half
naked; my skin was excoriated by the sun, sand, and salt water; four bloodhounds were at my
feet ready to fasten on my throat at the bidding of a desperado; a piratical sentry, knife
in hand, kept watch over me, while a jury of buccaneers discussed my fate within earshot. Dante's
Inferno had hardly more torments.

The filibustero conclave lasted quite an hour without reaching a conclusion. At length, after
an unusual clamor, the patron Rafael rushed from the rancho with a horseman's pistol, and,
calling my name, whirled me behind him in his strong and irresistible grasp. Then facing both
hands, with a terrible imprecation, he swore vengeance if they persisted in requiring the death
of HIS NEPHEW!

At the mention of the word "nephew," every one paused with a look of surprise, and drawing
near the excited man with expressions of interest, agreed to respect his new-found relative,
though they insisted I should swear never to disclose the occurrence of which I had been an
unwilling witness. I complied with the condition unhesitatingly, and shook hands with every
one present except the sentry, of whom I shall have occasion to speak hereafter.

It is astonishing what revulsions of manner, if not of feeling, take place suddenly among the
class of men with whom my lot had now been cast. Ten minutes before, they were greedy for my
blood, not on account of personal malice, but from utter recklessness of life whenever an individual
interfered with their personal hopes or tenure of existence. Each one of these outlaws now
vied with his companions in finding articles to cover my nakedness and make me comfortable.
As soon as I was clothed, supper was announced and I was given almost a seat of honor at a
table plentifully spread with fresh fish, sardines, olives, ham, cheese, and an abundance of
capital claret.

The chat naturally turned upon me, and some sly jokes were uttered at the expense of Rafael,
concerning the kinsman who had suddenly sprung up like a mushroom out of this pool of blood.

"Caballeros!" interposed Rafael, passionately, "you seem inclined to doubt my word. Perhaps
you are no longer disposed to regard me as your chief? We have broken bread together during
four months; we have shared the same dangers and divided our spoils fairly: am I now to be
charged to my face with a lie?" "Ha!" said he, rising from the table and striding through the
apartment with violent gestures, "who dares doubt my word, and impute to me the meanness of
a lie? Are ye drunk? Can this wine have made you mad?" and seizing a bottle, he dashed it to
the ground, stamping with rage. "Has the blood of last night unsettled your nerves and made
you delirious? Basta! basta! Let me not hear another word of doubt as to this youth. The first
who utters a syllable of incredulity shall kill me on the spot or fall by my hand!"

This sounds, I confess, very melo-dramatically, yet, my experience has taught me that it is
precisely a bold and dashing tone of bravado, adopted at the right moment, which is always
most successful among such ruffians as surrounded my preserver. The speech was delivered with
such genuine vehemence and resolution that no one could question his sincerity or suppose him
acting. But, as soon as he was done, the leader of the other gang, who had been very unconcernedly
smoking his cigar, and apparently punctuating Don Rafael's oration with his little puffs, advanced
to my new uncle, and laying his hand on his arm, said:--

"Amigo, you take a joke too seriously. No one here certainly desires to harm the boy or disbelieve
you. Take my advice,--calm yourself, light a cigarillo, drink a tumbler of claret, and drop
the subject."

But this process of pacification was too rapid for my excited uncle. Men of his quality require
to be let down gradually from their wrath, for I have frequently noticed that when their object
is too easily gained, they interpose obstacles and start new subjects of controversy, so that
the most amiable and yielding temper may at last become inflamed to passionate resistance.

"No, caballeros!" exclaimed Don Rafael, "I will neither light a cigarillo, drink claret, calm
myself, nor accept satisfaction for this insult, short of the self-condemnation you will all
experience for a mean suspicion, when I prove the truth of my assertions about this boy. A
doubted man has no business at the head of such fellows as you are. Begone out of my hearing,
Theodore," continued he, pointing to the canvas door, "begone till I convince these people
that I am your uncle!"

As soon as I was out of the chamber, I afterwards learned, that Rafael announced my name, place
of birth, and parentage to the wreckers, and desired the other patron, Mesclet, who spoke Italian,
to follow and interrogate me as to his accuracy.

Mesclet performed the service in a kind manner, opening the interview by asking the names of
my father and mother, and then demanding how many uncles I had on my mother's side? My replies
appeared satisfactory.

"Was one of your uncles a navy officer?" inquired Mesclet, "and where is he at present?" The
only uncle I had in the navy, I declared, had long been absent from his family. But once in
my life had I seen him, and that was while on his way to Marseilles, in 1815, to embark for
the Spanish main; since then no intelligence of the wanderer had reached my ears. Had I been
a French scholar at that time, my adventures of consanguinity at Ferrol and on this key might
well have brought Molière's satire to my mind:

    "De moi je commence à douter tout de bon;
    Pourtant, quand je me tâte et que je me rapelle,
    Il me semble que je suis moi!"

Mesclet's report gave perfect satisfaction to the scoffers, and the mysterious drama at once
established me in a position I could not have attained even by desperate services to the filibusteros.
A bumper, all round, closed the night; and each slunk off to his cot or blanket beneath a mosquito
bar, while the bloodhounds were chained at the door to do double duty as sentinels and body-guard.

I hope there are few who will deny me the justice to believe that when I stretched my limbs
on the hard couch assigned me that night, I remembered my God in heaven, and my home in Tuscany.
It was the first night that an ingenuous youth had spent among outcasts, whose hands were still
reeking with the blood of his companions. At that period of manhood we are grateful for the
mere boon of life. It is pleasant to live, to breathe, to have one's being, on this glorious
earth, even though that life may be cast among felons. There is still a future before us; and
Hope, the bright goddess of health and enthusiasm, inspires our nerves with energy to conquer
our present ills.

I threw myself down thankfully, but I could not rest. Sore and tired as I was, I could not
compose my mind to sleep. The conduct of Rafael surprised me. I could not imagine how he became
familiar with my biography, nor could I identify his personal appearance with my uncle who
went so long before to South America. A thousand fancies jumbled themselves in my brain, and,
in their midst, I fell into slumber. Yet my self-oblivion was broken and short. My pulse beat
wildly, but my skin did not indicate the heat of fever. The tragedy of the galliot was reacted
before me. Phantoms of the butchered wife and men, streaming with blood, stood beside my bed,
while a chorus of devils, in the garb of sailors, shouted that I was the cause of the galliot's
loss, and of their murder. Then the wretched woman would hang round my neck, and crawl on my
breast, besprinkling me with gore that spouted from her eyeless sockets, imploring me to save
her;--till, shrieking and panting, I awoke from the horrible nightmare. Such were the dreams
that haunted my pillow nearly all the time I was forced to remain with these desperadoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

I thanked God that the night of the tropics was so brief. The first glimmer of light found
me up, and as soon as I could find a companion to control the hounds, I ran to the sea for
refreshment by a glorious surf-bath. I was on a miserable sandbar, whose surface was hardly
covered with soil; yet, in that prolific land of rain and sunshine, nature seems only to require
the slightest footing to assert her magnificent power of vegetation. In spots, along the arid
island, were the most beautiful groves of abundant undergrowth, matted with broad-leaved vines,
while, within their shadow, the fresh herbage sprang up, sparkling with morning dew. In those
climates, the blaze of noon is a season of oppressive languor, but morning and evening, with
their dawn and twilight,--their lengthened shadows and declining sun, are draughts of beauty
that have often intoxicated less enthusiastic tempers than mine. The bath, the breeze, the
renewed nature, aroused and restored a degree of tone to my shattered nerves, so that when
I reached the rancho, I was ready for any duty that might be imposed. The twin gangs had gone
off in their boats soon after daylight, with saws and axes; but Rafael left orders with my
brutal sentry that I should assist him in preparing breakfast, which was to be ready by eleven
o'clock.

I never knew the real patronymic of this fellow, who was a Spaniard, and passed among us by
the nickname of Gallego. Gallego possessed a good figure,--symmetrical and strong, while it
was lithe and active. But his head and face were the most repulsive I ever encountered. The
fellow was not absolutely ugly, so far as mere contour of features was concerned; but there
was so dropsical a bloat in his cheeks, such a stagnant sallowness in his complexion, such
a watching scowl in his eyes, such a drawling sullenness of speech, such sensuality in the
turn of his resolute lips, that I trembled to know he was to be my daily companion. His dress
and skin denoted slovenly habits, while a rude and growling voice gave token of the bitter
heart that kept the enginery of the brute in motion.

With this wretch for chef de cuisine I was exalted to the post of "cook's mate."

       *       *       *       *       *

I found that a fire had been already kindled beneath some dwarf trees, and that a kettle was
set over it to boil. Gallego beckoned me to follow him into a thicket some distance from the
rancho, where, beneath the protection of a large tarpaulin, we found filibustero's pantry amply
provided with butter, onions, spices, salt-fish, bacon, lard, rice, coffee, wines, and all
the requisites of comfortable living. In the corners, strewn at random on the ground, I observed
spy-glasses, compasses, sea-charts, books, and a quantity of choice cabin-furniture. We obtained
a sufficiency of water for cookery and drinking from holes dug in the sand, and we managed
to cool the beverage by suspending it in a draft of air in porous vessels, which are known
throughout the West Indies by the mischievous name of "monkeys." Our copious thickets supplied
us with fuel, nor were we without a small, rough garden, in which the gang cultivated peppers,
tomatoes and mint. The premises being reviewed, I returned with my ill-favored guard to take
a lesson in piratical cookery.

It is astonishing how well these wandering vagabonds know how to toss up a savory mess, and
how admirably they understand its enjoyment. A tickled palate is one of the great objects of
their mere animal existence, and they are generally prepared with a mate who might pass muster
in a second-rate restaurant. The déjeuner we served of codfish stewed in claret, snowy and
granulated rice, delicious tomatoes and fried ham, was irreproachable. Coffee had been drunk
at day-dawn; so that my comrades contented themselves during the meal with liberal potations
of claret, while they finished the morning with brandy and cigars.

By two o'clock the breakfast was over, and most of the gorged scamps had retired for a siesta
during the sweltering heat. A few of the toughest took muskets and went to the beach to shoot
gulls or sharks. Gallego and myself were dispatched to our grove-kitchen to scullionize our
utensils; and, finally, being the youngest, I was intrusted with the honorable duty of feeding
the bloodhounds.

As soon as my duties were over, I was preparing to follow the siesta-example of my betters,
when I met Don Rafael coming out of the door, and, without a word, was beckoned to follow towards
the interior of the island. When we reached a solitary spot, two or three hundred yards from
the rancho, Rafael drew me down beside him in the shade of a tree, and said gently with a smile,
that he supposed I was at least surprised by the events of the last four days. I must confess
that I saw little for any thing else but astonishment in them, and I took the liberty to concede
that fact to the Don.

"Well," continued he, "I have brought you here to explain a part of the mystery, and especially
to let you understand why it was that I passed myself off last night as your uncle, in order
to save your life. I was obliged to do it, boy; and, voto à Dios! I would have fought the junta,--bloodhounds
and all,--before they should have harmed a limb of your body!"

Don Rafael explained that as soon as he caught a glimpse of my face when he boarded the galliot
on the morning of our disaster, he recognized the lineaments of an old companion in arms. The
resemblance caused him to address me as particularly as he had done on the night of the piracy,
the consequence of which was that his suspicions ripened into certainty.

If I were writing the story of Don Rafael's life, instead of my own, I might give an interesting
and instructive narrative, which showed,--as he alleged,--how those potent controllers of outlaws,--"circumstances,"--had
changed him from a very respectable soldier of fortune into a genuine buccaneer. He asserted
that my uncle had been his schoolmate and professional companion in the old world. When the
war of South American independence demanded the aid of certain Dugald Dalgettys to help its
fortune, Don Rafael and my uncle had lent the revolutionists of Mexico their swords, for which
they were repaid in the coin that "patriots" commonly receive for such amiable self-sacrifice.
Republics are proverbially ungrateful, and Mexico, alas! was a republic.

After many a buffet of fortune, my poor uncle, it seems, perished in a duel at which Don Rafael
performed the professional part of "his friend." My relation died, of course, like a "man of
honor," and soon after, Don Rafael, himself, fell a victim to the "circumstances" which, in
the end, enabled him to slaughter my shipmates and save my life.

I must admit that I use this flippant tone with a twinge of sorrow, for I think I perceived
certain spasms of conscience during our interview, which proved that, among the lees of that
withered heart, there were some rich drops of manhood ready to mantle his cheek with shame
at our surroundings. Indeed, as he disclosed his story, he exhibited several outbursts of passionate
agony which satisfied me that if Don Rafael were in Paris, Don Rafael would have been a most
respectable bourgeois; while, doubtless, there were many estimable citizens at that moment
in Paris, who would have given up their shops in order to become Don Rafaels in Cuba! Such
is life--and "circumstances!"

Our chat wasted a large portion of the afternoon. It was terminated by a counsel from my friend
to be wary in my deportment, and a direction to console myself with the idea that he did not
mean I should tarry long upon the island.

"You see," said he, "that I do not lack force of eye, voice, and personal influence over these
ruffians; yet I do not know that I can always serve or save a friend, so your fate hangs very
much on your circumspection. Men in our situation are Ishmaelites. Our hands are not only against
all, and all against us, but we do not know the minute when we may be all against each other.
The power of habitual control may do much for a leader among such men; but such an one must
neither quail nor deceive. Therefore, beware! Let none of your actions mar my projects. Let
them never suspect the truth of our consanguinity. Call me 'uncle;' and in my mouth you shall
always be 'Theodore.' Ask no questions; be civil, cheerful, and serviceable about the rancho;
never establish an intimacy, confidence, or friendship with any one of the band; stifle your
feelings and your tears if you ever find them rising to your lips or eyes; talk as little as
you possibly can; avoid that smooth-tongued Frenchman; keep away from our revels, and refrain
entirely from wine.

"I charge you to be specially watchful of Gallego, the cook. He is our man of dirty work,--a
shameless coward, though revengeful as a cat. If it shall ever happen that you come in collision
with him, strike first and well; no one cares for him; even his death will make no stir. Take
this cuchillo,--it is sharp and reliable; keep it near you day and night; and, in self-defence,
do not hesitate to make good use of it. In a few days, I may say more to you; until then,--corragio
figlio, è addio!"

We returned to the rancho by different paths.

CHAPTER V.

The life of men under the ban of society, on a desolate sand key, whose only visitors are land-crabs
and sea-gulls, is a dull and dreary affair. The genuine pirate, properly equipped for a desperate
lot, who has his swift keel beneath him and is wafted wheresoever he lists on canvas wings,
encounters, it is true, an existence of peril; yet there is something exhilarating and romantic
in his dashing career of incessant peril: he is ever on the wing, and ever amid novelty; there
is something about his life that smacks of genuine warfare, and his existence becomes as much
more respectable as the old-fashioned highwayman on his mettlesome steed was superior to the
sneaking footpad, who leaped from behind a thicket and bade the unarmed pedestrian stand and
deliver. But the wrecker-pirate takes his victim at a disadvantage, for he is not a genuine
freebooter of the sea. He shuns an able foe and strikes the crippled. Like the shark and the
eagle, he delights to prey on the carcass, rather than to strike the living quarry.

The companionship into which misfortune had thrown me was precisely of this character, and
I gladly confess that I was never tempted for a moment to bind up my fate with the sorry gang.
I confided, it is true, in Rafael's promise to liberate me; yet I never abandoned the hope
of escape by my own tact and energy.

Meanwhile, I became heartily tired of my scullion duties as the subordinate of Gallego. Finding
one day a chest of carpenters' tools among the rubbish, I busied myself in making a rudder
for one of the boats, and so well did I succeed, that when my companions returned to breakfast
from their daily "fishing," my mechanical skill was lauded to such a degree that Rafael converted
the general enthusiasm to my advantage by separating me from the cook. I was raised to the
head of our "naval bureau" as boatbuilder in chief. Indeed, it was admitted on all hands that
I was abler with the adze than the ladle and spoiled fewer boards than broths.

A few days passed, during which I learned that our unfortunate galliot was gradually emptied
and destroyed. This was the usual morning occupation of the whole gang until the enterprise
ended. When the job was over Don Rafael told me that he was about to depart hurriedly on business
with the whole company, to the mainland of Cuba, so that, during his absence, the island and
its property would be left in custody of Gallego, myself, and the bloodhounds. He specially
charged the cook to keep sober, and to give a good account of himself at the end of five days,
which would terminate his absence.

But no sooner was the patron away, than the lazy scamp neglected his duties, skulked all day
among the bushes, and refused even to furnish my food or supply the dogs. Of course, I speedily
attended to the welfare of myself and the animals; but, at night, the surly Galician came home,
prepared his own supper, drank till he was completely drunk, and retired without uttering a word.

I was glad that he yielded to the temptation of liquor, as I hoped he would thereby become
incapable of harming me during the watches of the night, if weariness compelled me to sleep.
He was a malignant wretch, and his taciturnity and ill-will appeared so ominous now that I
was left utterly alone, that I resolved, if possible, to keep awake, and not to trust to luck
or liquor. The galliot's tragedy and anxiety stood me in stead, so that I did not close my
eyes in sleep the whole of that dreary vigil. About midnight, Gallego stealthily approached
my cot, and pausing a moment to assure himself that I was in the profound repose which I admirable
feigned, he turned on tip-toe to the door of our cabin, and disappeared with a large bundle
in his hand. He did not return until near day-dawn; and, next night, the same act was exactly
repeated.

The mysterious sullenness of this vagabond not only alarmed, but increased my nervousness,
for I can assure the reader that, on a desolate island, without a companion but a single outcast,
one would rather hear the sound of that wretch's voice than be doomed to the silence of such
inhuman solitude. During the day he kept entirely aloof,--generally at sea fishing,--affording
me time for a long siesta in a nook near the shore, penetrated by a thorny path, which Gallego
could not have traced without hounds. On the fourth night, when the pirate left our hut for
his accustomed excursion, I resolved to follow; and taking a pistol with renewed priming, I
pursued his steps at a safe distance, till I saw him enter a thick shrubbery, in which he was
lost. I marked the spot and returned to the cabin. Next morning, after coffee, Gallego departed
in his canoe to fish. I watched him anxiously from the beach until he anchored about two miles
from the reef, and then calling the dogs, retraced my way to the thicket. The hounds were of
great service, for, having placed them on the track, they instantly traced the path of the
surly scoundrel.

After some trouble in passing the dense copse of underwood, I entered a large patch of naked
sand, broken by heaps of stones, which appeared to cover graves. One heap bore the form of
a cross, and was probably the sepulchre of a wrecker. I stopped awhile and reflected as to
further explorations. On entering this arid graveyard, I observed a number of land-crabs scamper
away; but, after awhile, when I sat down in a corner and became perfectly quiet, I noticed
that the army returned to the field and introduced themselves into all the heaps of stones
or graves save one. This struck me as singular; for, when people are so hopelessly alone as
I was, they become minute observers, and derive infinite happiness from the consideration of
the merest trifles. Accordingly, I ventured close to the abandoned heap, and found at once
that the neighboring sand had been freshly smoothed. I was on Gallego's track! In dread of
detection, I stealthily climbed a tree, and, screening myself behind the foliage, peered out
towards the sea till I beheld the cook at work beyond the reef. My musket and pistols were
again examined and found in order. With these precautions, I began to remove the stones, taking
care to mark their relative positions so that I might replace them exactly; and, in about ten
minutes work at excavation, I came upon two barrels, one of which was filled with bundles of
silk, linens, and handkerchiefs, while the other contained a chronometer, several pieces of
valuable lace, and a beautifully bound, gilt, and ornamented Bible. One bundle, tied in a Madras
handkerchief, particularly attracted my attention, for I thought I recognized the covering.
Within it I found a number of trinkets belonging to the wife of my Dutch captain, and a large
hairpin, set with diamonds, which I remember she wore the last day of her life. Had this wretch
torn it from her head, as he imbrued his hands in her blood on that terrible night? The painful
revelation brought all before me once more with appalling force. I shuddered and became sick.
Yet, I had no time for maudlin dalliance with my feelings. Replacing every thing with precision,
and smoothing the sand once more with my flannel shirt, I returned to the rancho, where I indulged
in the boyish but honest outburst of nature which I could no longer restrain. I was not then--and,
thank God, I am not now--a stranger to tears! To the world, the human heart and the human eye,
like the coral isle of the Atlantic, may be parched and withered; yet beneath the seared and
arid surface, the living water still flows and gushes, when the rock and the heart alike are
stricken!

       *       *       *       *       *

Just before sunset of this day, the deep baying of our hounds gave notice of approaching strangers;
and, soon after, four boats appeared in the cove. The two foremost belonged to Don Rafael and
his crew, while the others were filled with strangers whose appearance was that of landsmen
rather than mariners. As Rafael received them on the beach, he introduced them to me as his
especial pets, the "AMPHIBIOUS JEWS."

Our delicious supper of that night was augmented by a fine store of beef, pork and fowls, brought
from shore. I lingered at table as long as the company maintained a decent sobriety, and learned
that these salt water Hebrews were, in truth, speculators from Cardenas, who accompanied Rafael
in the guise of fishermen, to purchase the plundered cargo of my galliot.

During his visit to Cuba, Don Rafael was apprised that the Cuban authorities were about sending
an Inspector among the islands off the coast, and accordingly took precaution to furnish himself
in advance with a regular "fishing license." All hands were forthwith set to work to make our
key and rancho conform to this calling, and, in a few days, the canvas roof of our hut was
replaced by a thatch of leaves, while every dangerous article or implement was concealed in
the thicket of a labyrinthine creek. In fact, our piscatory character could not be doubted.
In our persons and occupation, we looked as innocent and rustic as a pic-nic party on a summer
bivouac for fresh air and salt bathing. Nor was the transformation less real in regard to our
daily tasks. We became, in reality, most industrious fishermen; so that we had more than a
thousand of the finny tribe piled up and dried, when the hounds signalled the arrival of the
expected officials.

Breakfast was on the table when they landed, but it was the banyan meal of humble men, whose
nets were never filled with aught but the scaly products of the sea. Our inspector was regaled
with a scant fish-feast, and allowed to digest it over the genuine license. Rafael complained
sadly of hard times and poverty;--in fact, the drama of humility was played to perfection,
and, finally, the functionary signed our license, with a certificate of our loyalty, and pocketed
a moderate "gratification" of five ounces!

       *       *       *       *       *

Six long, hot, and wretched weeks passed over my head before any striking occurrence relieved
the monotony of my life. During the whole of this period, our fishing adventure was steadily
pursued, when information was mysteriously brought to the key that a richly-laden French vessel
had run ashore on the Cayo Verde, an islet some forty miles east of the Cruz del Padre. That
afternoon, both of our large boats were filled with armed men, and, as they departed with every
wrecker aboard, I alone was left on the islet to guard our property with the dogs.

The thought and hope of escape both swelled in my breast as I saw the hulls dwindle to a dot
and disappear behind the horizon. In a moment, my plan was conceived and perfected. The sea
was perfectly smooth, and I was expert in the use of oars. That very night I launched our canoe,--the
only vessel left in the cove,--and placing the sail, scullers, and grappling-hook within it,
returned to the rancho for clothing. As it was dark, I lighted a candle, when, on looking into
the clothes-chest beneath my bed, I found inscribed on the lid, in fresh chalk-marks, the words
"PATIENCE! WAIT!"

This discovery made me pause in my preparations. Was it the warning--as it was certainly the
handwriting--of Rafael? Had he purposely and honorably left me alone, in order to escape this
scene of blood? Did he anticipate my effort to fly, and endeavor to save me from the double
risk of crossing to the mainland, and of future provision for my comfort? I could not doubt
its being the work of my friend; and, whether it was superstition or prudence, I cannot say,
but I resolved, unhesitatingly, to abandon a scheme in regard to which I hesitated. Instead,
therefore, of attempting to pass the strait between the key and Cuba, I went to bed, and slept
more comfortably in my utter abandonment than I had done since I was on the island.

Next day, at noon, I descried a small pilot-boat sailing inside the reef, with all the confidence
of a perfect master of the channel. Two persons speedily landed, with provisions from the mainland,
and stated that, on his last visit to Cuba, Don Rafael engaged them to take me to Havana. This,
however, was to be done with much caution, inasmuch as his men would not assent to my departure
until they had compromised my life with theirs by some act of desperate guilt. The pilots declined
taking me then without my guardian's assent;--and, in truth, so fully was I convinced of his
intention to liberate me in the best and speediest way, that I made up my mind to abide where
I was till he returned.

For three days more I was doomed to solitude. On the fourth, the boats came back, with the
pilot's cutter, and I quickly saw that a serious encounter had taken place. The pilot-boat
appeared to be deeply laden. Next day, she was taken to the mazes of the winding and wooded
creek, where, I learned, the booty was disembarked and hidden. While the party had gone to
complete this portion of their enterprise, the Frenchman, who was wounded in the head and remained
behind, took that opportunity to enlighten me on passing events. When the wreckers reached
Cayo Verde, they found the French vessel already taken possession of by "fishermen" of that
quarter. Anticipated in their dirty work, our comrades were in no mood to be sociable with
the fortunate party. An affray was the natural result, in which knives had been freely used,
while Mesclet himself had been rescued by Rafael, pistol in hand, after receiving the violent
blow on his head from which he was now suffering. Having secured a retreat to their boats,
they were just beginning to think of a rapid departure, when the friendly pilot-boat hove in
sight. So fortunate a reinforcement renerved our gang. A plan of united action was quickly
concerted. The French vessel was again hoarded and carried. Two of the opposite party were
slain in the onslaught; and, finally, a rich remnant of the cargo was seized, though the greater
part of the valuables had, no doubt, been previously dispatched ashore by the earlier band
of desperadoes.

"Thank God!" added the narrator, "we have now the boat and the assistance of Bachicha, who
is as brave as Rafael: with his 'Baltimore clipper,' we shall conduct our affairs on a grander
scale than heretofore. Sacre-bleu! we may now cruise under the Columbian flag, and rob Peter
to pay Paul!"

In fact, the "clipper" had brought down an ample store of ammunition, under the innocent name
of "provisions," while she carried in her bowels a long six, which she was ready to mount amidships
at a moment's notice.

But poor Mesclet did not live to enjoy the fruits of the larger piracy, which he hoped to carry
on in a more elegant way with Bachicha. The roué could not be restrained from the favorite
beverages of his beautiful France. His wound soon mastered him; and, in a month, all that was
mortal of this gallant Gaul, who, in earlier years, had figured in the best saloons of his
country, rested among sand-graves of a Cuban key.

"Ah!" growled Gallego, as they came home from his burial, "there is one less to share our earnings;
and, what is better, claret and brandy will be more plentiful now that this sponge is under
the sand!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In a few days, the boats were laden with fish for the mainland, in order to cover the real
object of our patron's visit to Cuba, which was to dispose of the booty. At his departure,
he repeated the cherished promise of liberty, and privately hinted that I had better continue
fishing on good terms with Señor Gallego.

It required some time to repair the nets, for they had been rather neglected during our late
fishing, so that it was not, in fact, until Rafael had been three days gone that I took the
canoe with Gallego, and dropped anchor outside the reef, to take breakfast before beginning
our labor.

We had hardly begun a frugal meal when, suddenly, a large schooner shot from behind a bend
of the island, and steered in our direction. As the surly Spaniard never spoke, I had become
accustomed to be equally silent. Unexpectedly, however, he gave a scowling glance from beneath
his shaggy brows at the vessel, and exclaimed with unusual energy: "A Columbian privateer!"

"We had best up anchor, and get inside the reef," continued he, "or our sport will be spoiled
for the day."

"Pshaw!" returned I, "she's not making for us, and, even if she were, I wouldn't be such a
coward as to run!" Indeed, I had heard so much of "Columbian privateers" and the patriot service,
that I rather longed to be captured, that I might try my hand at lawful war and glory. The
impulse was sudden and silly.

Still Gallego insisted on retreating; until, at length, we got into an angry controversy, which
the cook, who was in the bow of the boat, attempted to end by cutting the anchor-rope. As he
was drawing his knife to execute this purpose, I swiftly lifted an oar, and, with a single
blow, laid him senseless in the bottom of the canoe. By this time the schooner was within pistol-shot;
and, as she passed with a three-knot breeze, the captain, who had witnessed the scene, threw
a grappling-iron into our skiff, and taking us in tow, dragged the boat from its moorings.

As soon as we got into deeper water, I was ordered on deck, while Gallego, still quite insensible,
was hoisted carefully on board. I told the truth as to our dispute, reserving, however, the
important fact that I had been originally urged into the quarrel by my anxiety "to ship" on
board a privateer.

"I want a pilot for Key West," said the master, hurriedly, "and I have no time to trifle with
your stupid quarrels. Can either of you perform this service?"

By this time Gallego had been somewhat roused from his stupor, and pointing feebly towards
me, uttered a languid:--"Yes, and an excellent one."

Mistaking the word "pilote," which in Spanish signifies "navigator," the French captain, who
spoke the Castilian very badly, translated it into the more limited meaning attached to that
peculiar profession, one of whose ministers he was anxious to secure.

"Bon!" said the master, "put the other fellow back into his skiff, and make sail at once under
charge of this youngster."

I remonstrated, protested, declaimed, swore, that I knew nothing of Key West and its approaches;
but all my efforts were vain. I was a pilot in spite of myself.

The malicious cook enjoyed the joke of which I had so hastily become the victim. As they lowered
him again into the boat, he jeered at my incredulity, and in ten minutes was towed to the edge
of the reef, where the scamp was turned adrift to make for the island.

When the schooner was once more under full sail, I was ordered to give the course for Key West.
I at once informed the captain, whose name I understood to be Laminé, that he really labored
under a mistake in translating the Spanish word pilote into port guide, and assured him that
Gallego had been prompted by a double desire to get rid of him as well as me by fostering his
pernicious error. I acknowledged that I was a "pilot," or "navigator," though not a "practico,"
or harbor-pilot; yet I urged that I could not, without absolute foolhardiness, undertake to
conduct his schooner into a port of which I was utterly ignorant, and had never visited. Hereupon
the first lieutenant or mate interposed. This fellow was a short, stout-built person of thirty-five,
with reddish whiskers and hair, a long-projecting under-jaw, and eye-teeth that jutted out
like tusks. To add to his ugliness, he was sadly pitted by small-pox, and waddled about on
short duck legs, which were altogether out of proportion to his long body, immense arms, and
broad, massive shoulders. I do not remember a more vulgarly repulsive person than this privateering
lieutenant.

"He is a liar, Captain Laminé, and only wants to extort money for his services," interjected
the brute. "Leave him to me, sir; I'll find a way to refresh his memory of Key West that will
open the bottom of the gulf to his eyes as clearly as the pathway to his piratical hut on the
sand key! To the helm, sir--to the helm!"

What possible object or result could I gain by resistance amid the motley assemblage that surrounded
me on the deck of the "CARA-BOBO?" She was a craft of about 200 tons; and, with her crew of
seventy-five, composed of the scourings of all nations, castes, and colors, bore a commission
from the authorities of Carthagena to burn, sink and destroy all Spanish property she was strong
enough to capture. Laminé was born in the isle of France, while Lasquetti, the lieutenant,
was a creole of Pensacola. The latter spoke French and Spanish quite well, but very little
English; while both master and mate were almost entirely ignorant of navigation, having intrusted
that task to the third lieutenant, who was then ill with yellow fever. The second lieutenant
was absent on board a prize.

Thus forced to take charge of a privateer without a moment's warning, I submitted with the
best grace, and, calling for charts and instruments, I shaped my way for the destined port.
All day we steered west-north-west, but at sunset, as we had run along smartly, I ordered the
schooner to be "laid to" for the night. The wind and weather were both charmingly fair, and
objections were of course made to my command. But, as the most difficult part of our navigation
was to be encountered during the night, if I kept on my course, I resolved to persist to the
last in my resolution, and I was fortunate enough to carry my point.

"D--n you," said Lasquetti, as the vessel was brought to the wind and made snug for the night,
"d--n you, Master Téodore; this laying-to shall give you no rest, at least, if you thought
to dodge work, and get into a hammock by means of it! You shall march the deck all night to
see that we don't drift on a reef, if I have to sit up, or stand up till day-dawn to watch you!"

Obedience, alas! had been the order of the day with me for a long while; so I promenaded the
lee quarter till nearly midnight, when, utterly exhausted by fatigue, I sat down on a long
brass chaser, and almost instantly fell asleep.

I know not how long I rested, but a tremendous shock knocked me from the cannon and laid me
flat on the deck, bleeding from mouth, nose and ears. Lasquetti stood beside me, cigar in hand,
laughing immoderately, blaspheming like a demon, and kicking me in the ribs with his rough
wet-weather boots. He had detected me asleep, and touched off the gun with his havanna!

The explosion aroused all hands, and brought the commander on deck. My blood flowed, but it
did not pour fast enough to relieve my agonizing rage. As soon as I recovered consciousness,
I seized the first heavy implement I could grasp, and rushed at my aggressor, whose skull was
saved from the blow by descending beneath the combings of the hatchway, which, the instant
after, were shivered by the descent of my heavy weapon. Laminé was a man of some sensibility,
and, though selfish, as usual with his set, could not avoid at once reprimanding Lasquetti
with uncommon severity in presence of his men.

That afternoon, I was fortunate enough, by the aid of a good chart, and a sort of navigating
instinct, to anchor the "Cara-bobo" in the narrow harbor of Key West. When Laminé went ashore,
he ordered me not to leave the schooner, while sentries were placed to prevent boats from boarding
or even approaching us. Hardly was the master out of the vessel before two men seized me as
I looked at the shore through a telescope. In the twinkling of an eye, I was hurried below
and double-ironed; nor would I have received a morsel of food save bread and water during our
detention, had I not been secretly fed by some good fellows from the forecastle, who stole
to me after dark with the remnant of their rations. This was the cowardly revenge of Lasquetti.

On the third day, Laminé returned, bringing an American pilot for the coast and islands. I
was set at liberty as he was seen approaching; and when we got under way on another cruise,
I was commanded to do duty as sailing-master, which I promptly refused with spirited indignation,
until I received satisfaction from the dastard lieutenant. But this fellow had taken care to
forestall me, by assuring Laminé that he never dreamed of securing me until I was caught in
the very act of escaping from the schooner!

During a week's cruise of indifferent success with these "patriots," I won the kind heart of
the American pilot, who heard the story of my late adventures with patience; and, through his
influence with the commander, my lot was mitigated, notwithstanding my refusal to do duty.
By this time, the third lieutenant was restored to sufficient health to resume the deck. He
was a native of Spain and a gallant sailor. Many an hour did he pass beside me, recounting
his adventures or listening to mine, until I seemed to win his sympathy, and insure his assistance
for relief from this miserable tyranny.

At length, the schooner's course was shaped for the Cruz del Padre, while I was summoned to
the cabin. I perceived at once a singular change for the better in Monsieur Laminé's manner.
He requested me to be seated; pressed me to accept a tumbler of claret; inquired about my health,
and ended this harmonious overture by saying, that if I would sign a document exonerating him
from all charges of compulsory detention or ill-treatment, he would pay me two hundred dollars
for my service, and land me again on the key.

I promptly saw that his object in replacing me on the island was to prevent my complaints against
his conduct from reaching the ears of a tribunal in a neutral port; and, accordingly, I declined
the proposition,--demanding, however, to be put on board of any vessel we met, no matter what
might be her nationality. I sternly refused his money, and insisted that my only desire was
to be free from his brutal officer.

But Laminé was in power and I was not. In the end, I discovered that worse consequences might
befall me among these ruffians, if I hesitated to take the recompense and sign the paper. In
fact, I began to be quite satisfied that, in reality, it was an escape to be freed from the
privateer, even if I took refuge once more among pirates!

So, after a good deal of claret and controversy had been wasted, I signed the document and
pocketed the cash.

As the first bars of saffron streaked the east next morning, the reef of the Cruz del Padre
hove in sight dead ahead. The third lieutenant presented me at my departure with a set of charts,
a spy-glass, a quadrant, and a large bag of clothes; while, in the breast of a rich silk waistcoat,
he concealed three ounces and a silver watch, which he desired me to wear in honor of him,
if ever I was fortunate enough to tread the streets of Havana. Several of the white sailors
also offered me useful garments; and a black fellow, who had charge of the boat in which I
was sent ashore, forced on me two sovereigns, which he considered a small gratuity to "a countryman"
in distress. He hailed from Marblehead, and protested that he knew me in Salem when I was a lad.

As the boat approached the rancho's cove, I perceived every body under arms, and heard Don
Rafael command my boatmen, in a loud, imperious voice, to begone, or he would fire. Standing
on the thwarts of the boat, I ordered the oarsmen to back water, and leaping into the sea,
waist-deep, struggled alone to the beach, calling "mi tio! mi tio!"--"my uncle! Don Rafael!"--who,
recognizing my voice and gestures, promptly rushed forward to embrace me. Our boat was then
allowed to approach the landing and disburthen itself of the gifts. I thought it best to request
my sable ally from Marblehead to narrate, in as good Spanish or lingua-franca, as he could
press into his service, the whole story of my capture and the conduct of Gallego. This being
done, the boat and its crew were dispatched aboard with a multitude of Spanish courtesies and
the substantial gift of some Chateau Margaux.

After an early supper, I became the lion of the evening, and was requested to give a narrative
of my cruise in the "patriot service." I noticed that some of the gang looked on me askance
with an incredulous air, while others amused themselves by smoking and spitting in a very contemptuous
way whenever I reached what I conceived to be a thrilling portion of my story. At its conclusion,
I arose and deposited in the hands of Don Rafael my gifts of two hundred dollars and the two
sovereigns. This evidence of reciprocity seemed to restore the good temper of my impatient
hearers, so that, by the time the patron went round the circle, giving each man his share of
my earnings,--not even omitting Gallego,--my credit was almost restored among the gang.

"As for these two pieces of gold, these charts, instruments and clothes," said Don Rafael,
"they are the property of the youth, and I am sure none of you are mean enough to divide them.
The money was another thing. That was his earning, as the 'fishing revenue' is ours; and as
he is entitled to a share of what we gain, we are entitled to participate in whatever he wins.
Yet, amigos, this is not all. My nephew, caballeros, has been accused, by one of this party,
during his absence, of being not only a contemptible thief, but a traitor and coward. Now,
as these are three 'blasphemous vituperations' which are not to be found under any head in
my prayer-book, and never were chargeable on the blood of our family, I insist on immediate
justice to my kinsman. Let that cowardly scoundrel repeat and prove his accusation of Téodore,
face to face! You, señores, shall stand judges. Every thing shall be fair. To-night, my boy
shall be found guilty or purged of the baseness imputed to him; and, moreover, I apprise you
now, that if he is innocent, I shall to-morrow restore him to liberty. His voluntary return
was a voucher of honesty; and I doubt whether there is a clever man among you who does not
agree with me. Stand forth, Gallego, and charge this youth again with the infamy you heaped
on him while he was away."

But the sullen wretch bowed his head, with a hang-dog look, and rolled his black and bushy
skull slowly from side to side, with an air of bullying defiance. Still he remained perfectly
silent.

"Stand forth, Gallego, once more, I say!" shouted Don Rafael, stamping with fury and foaming
at the mouth; "stand forth, imp of the devil, and make good your charge, or I'll trice you
up to these rafters by your thumbs, and lash you with a cow-hide till your stretched skin peels
off in ribbons!"

The threat restored Gallego's voice; but he could only say that there was no use in repeating
the charges, because the case was prejudged, and all feared Don Rafael and his parasite to
such a degree that it was impossible to treat him with justice. "Yet, look ye, señores, if
I can't talk, I can fight. If Don Rafael is ready to meet me, knife in hand, in support of
my cause, why, all I have to say is, that I am ready for him and his bastard to boot!"

In a moment, Rafael's knife was out of his belt, and the two sprang forward in a death-struggle,
which would doubtless have been a short affair, had not the whole party interposed between
the combatants and forbidden the fight. In the hurly-burly, Gallego took to his heels and departed.

The scoundrel's escape caused some alarm in the camp, as it was feared he might leave the island,
and, turning king's evidence, make the waters of Cuba too hot for the band. Accordingly, all
the canoes and boats that night were drawn up on the beach and kept under double watch.

When order was restored in the rancho, I asked Don Rafael to explain the "three accusations"
that had been made against my fair fame; when I learned that I was charged by Gallego with
having felled him in the boat, with having shipped voluntarily in the privateer, and with returning
in the Cara-bobo's boats to rob the rancho of its valuables!

The first of the allegations I admitted to be true; the second had been disproved by the privateer's
boatmen; and, as to the third, I at once insisted upon the party's taking torches and accompanying
me to the graveyard, where, I told them, they would find--as, in truth, they did--the valuables
this villain had charged me with stealing. On our way thither, I recounted the manner in which
I detected his infamy.

Nest morning we divided into two parties, and taking the dogs, proceeded in chase of the dastard
Galician. He was quickly tracked by the hounds and caught asleep, with two empty flasks beside him.

A drum-head court-martial at once convened for his trial, and it was unanimously resolved to
chain him to a tree, where he was to be left exposed to the elements until he starved to death.
The passive and silent fit had again come over Gallego. I implored that the sentence might
be softened, but I was laughed at for my childish pity, and ordered home to the rancho. The
command to chain him having been executed, the Spanish outcast was left to his terrible fate.
One of the men, out of compassion, as he said, secretly conveyed a case of gin to the doomed
man, and left it within reach, either to solace his departure from the world, or to render
him insensible. But his end was speedy. Next morning the guard found him dead, with six empty
bottles out of the case. His body was denied the rites of sepulture. It was left lying in chains
as he perished, to rot in the sun and be devoured by the insects generated from his decay.

CHAPTER VI.

When these dreadful scenes were over, Don Rafael took me aside with the pleasant news that
the time for my liberation was indeed arrived. He handed me one hundred and twenty-five dollars,
which wore my share of the proceeds of our lawful fishing. "Take the money," said Rafael, with
a good deal of feeling; "take it, young man, with perfect confidence;--there is no blood on it!"

My preparations for departure were quickly made, as Bachicha was in the cove with his craft
ready to take me to the mainland. I bade a hasty adieu to the gang; and perhaps it is rare
that any one ever abandoned the companions of several months' intimacy with so little pain.
Rafael's solicitude for my character touched me. He had done all in his power to preserve my
self-respect, and I was, therefore, well disposed to regard the good counsel he gave me at
parting, and to believe in his sincerity when he pictured a bright future, and contrasted it
with his own desolation and remorse.

"I have recommended you, hijo mio, to a friend in Regla, on the opposite side of the harbor
at Havana, who will take care of you. He is a paisano of ours. Take these additional ten ounces,
which are the fruit of honest labor. They will help you to appear properly in Havana; so that,
with the care of Bachicha and our Regla countryman, I don't despair of your welfare. ADIOS!
para siempre!"

And so we parted;--and it was, indeed, an adieu for ever. We never met again, but I heard of
Don Rafael and his fortunes. The new enterprise with the pilot-boat turned out successfully,
and the band acquired considerable property on the island before the piratical nests along
the coast of Cuba were broken up by cruisers. Rafael had some narrow escapes from the noose
and the yard arm; but he eluded the grasp of his pursuers, and died a respectable ranchero
on a comfortable farm in the interior of the Queen of the Antilles.

       *       *       *       *       *

The light winds of summer soon brought us inside the Moro Castle, past the frowning batteries
of the Cabanas, and at anchor near Regla, within the beautiful harbor of Havana. I shall never
forget the impression made on my mind by this delicious scene as it first broke on my sight
at sunrise, in all the cool freshness of morning. The grand amphitheatre of hills swept down
to the calm and lake-like water with gentle slopes, lapped in the velvet robes of richest green,
and embroidered, as it were, with lace-like spots of castle, fort, dwelling, and villa, until
the seaward points were terminated on the left, by the brilliant city, and on the right by
a pile of majestic batteries.

This grand and lasting impression was made almost at a glance, for, at my time of life, I was
more concerned with man than nature, and rarely paused to dwell on the most fascinating scenery.
Accordingly, I hastened to Regla with my letter of introduction, which was interpreted by Bachicha
to the Italian grocer, the friend of Rafael, to whom I was confided. Il signore Carlo Cibo
was an illiterate man of kind heart, who had adventurously emigrated from Italy to furnish
the Havanese with good things; while, in return, the Havanese had been so pleased with his
provender, that Carlo may be said to have been a man "very well to do in the world" for a foreigner.
He received me with unbounded kindness;--welcomed me to his bachelor home;--apologized for
its cold cheerlessness, and ordered me to consider himself and his "casa" entirely at my disposal
as long as I chose to remain.

I was content to accept this unstinted hospitality for a few days, while I ran over the town,
the hills, and the paseos; but I could not consent to dally long eating the bread of idleness
and charity. I observed that my friend Carlo was either the most prudent or least inquisitive
man I knew, for he never asked me a question about my early or recent history. As he would
not lend the conversation to my affairs, I one day took the liberty to inquire whether there
was a vessel in port bound to the Pacific Ocean or Mexico, in which my protector could possibly
find a situation for me as an officer, or procure me permission to work my way even as a common
sailor.

The kind grocer instantly divined my true motive, and while he honored me for it, deprecated
the idea of my departure. He said that my visit, instead of being a burden, was a pleasure
he could not soon replace. As to the expenses of his house, he declared they were, in fact,
not increased. What fed five, fed half a dozen; and, as to my proposal to go to Mexico, or
any other place in Spanish America on the Continent, with a view of "making my fortune," he
warmly protested against it, in consequence of his own experience.

"They can never conquer their jealousy of foreigners," said Carlo; "you may live with them
for years, and imagine yourself as intimate as brothers; but, at last, carramba, you will find
something turn up, that marks you an alien and kindles nationality against you. Take my advice,
Don Téodore, stay where you are; study Spanish carefully; get the hang of the people; and,
my life on it, before long, you'll have your hands full of trump cards and the game in your power."

I did as he desired, and was presented to a corpulent old quiz of a padre, who pretended to
instruct me in classical Castilian. Two lessons demonstrated his incapacity; but as he was
a jolly gossip of my grocer, and hail-fellow with the whole village of Regla, I thought it
good policy to continue his pupil in appearance, while I taught myself in private. Besides
this, the padre was a bon vivant and devoted lover of fish. Now, as I happened to be a good
sportsman, with a canoe at my command, I managed to supply his kitchen with an abundance of
the finny tribe, which his cook was an adept in preparing. It may be supposed that our "fast
days" were especial epochs of delicious reunion. A fine dinner smoked on the table; a good
bottle was added by the grocer; and, while my entertainer discussed the viands, I contrived
to keep him in continual chat, which, in reality, was the best practical lesson a man in my
circumstances could receive.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is strange how our lives and destinies are often decided by trifles. As I sailed about the
harbor in idleness, my nautical eye and taste were struck by the trim rig of the sharp built
"slavers," which, at that time, used to congregate at Havana. There was something bewitching
to my mind in their race-horse beauty. A splendid vessel has always had the same influence
on my mind, that I have heard a splendid woman has on the minds of other men. These dashing
slavers, with their arrowy hulls and raking masts, got complete possession of my fancy. There
was hardly a day that I did not come home with a discovery of added charms. Signor Carlo listened
in silence and nodded his head, when I was done, with an approving smile and a "bueno!"

I continued my sailing peregrinations for a month around the harbor, when my kind entertainer
invited me to accompany him aboard a vessel of which, he said, he owned two shares--she was
bound to Africa! The splendid clipper was one of the very craft that had won my heart; and
my feverish soul was completely upset by the gala-scene as we drifted down the bay, partaking
of a famous breakfast, and quaffing bumpers of Champagne to the schooner's luck. When she passed
the Moro Castle we leaped into our boats, and gave the voyagers three hearty and tipsy cheers.
My grocer was a "slaver!"

I had a thousand questions for the Italian in regard to the trade, now that I found he belonged
to the fraternity. All my inquiries were gratified in his usually amiable manner; and that
night, in my dreams, I was on board of a coaster chased by John Bull.

My mind was made up. Mexico, Peru, South American independence, patriotism, and all that, were
given to the breezes of the gulf. I slept off my headache and nightmare; and next morning announced
to Cibo my abandonment of the Costa Firma, and my anxiety to get a situation in a vessel bound
to Africa.

In a few days I was told that my wishes would perhaps be gratified, as a fast vessel from the
Canaries was about to be sold; and if she went off a bargain, Signor Carlo had resolved to
purchase her, with a friend, to send to Africa.

Accordingly, the Canary "GLOBO" was acquired for $3000; and after a perfect refitting at the
Casa-Blanca of Havana, loomed in the harbor as a respectable pilot-boat of forty tons. Her
name, in consequence of reputed speed, was changed to "El Areostatico;" a culverine was placed
amidships; all the requisites for a slave cargo were put on board; fifteen sailors, the refuse
of the press-gang and jail-birds, were shipped; powder, ammunition, and small arms, were abundantly
supplied; and, last of all, four kegs, ballasted with specie, were conveyed into the cabin
to purchase our return cargo.

It was on the 2d of September, 1826, after a charming déjeuner, that I bade farewell to my
friend Carlo on the deck of the Areostatico, cleared for the Cape de Verd isles, but, in truth,
bound for the Rio Pongo. Our crew consisted of twenty-one scamps--Spaniards, Portuguese, Frenchmen,
and mongrels. The Majorcan captain was an odd character to intrust with such an enterprise,
and probably nowhere else, save in Havana at that period, would he have been allowed to command
a slaver. He was a scientific navigator, but no sailor;--afraid of his shadow, he had not a
particle of confidence in his own judgment; every body was listened to, and he readily yielded
his opinions without argument or controversy. Our chief officer, a Catalonian cousin of the
captain, made no pretensions to seamanship, yet he was a good mathematician. I still remember
the laughs I had at the care he took of his lily-white hands, and the jokes we cracked upon
his girl-like manners, voice, and conversation. The boatswain, who was in his watch, assured
me that he rarely gave an order without humming it out to a tune of some favorite opera.

In this fantastic group, I occupied the position of supernumerary officer and interpreter;
but accustomed, as I had been, to wholesome American seamanship and discipline, I trembled
not a little when I discovered the amazing ignorance of the master, and observed the utter
worthlessness of our crew. These things made me doubly vigilant; and sometimes I grieved that
I was not still in Regla, or on the paseo. On the tenth day out, a northwester began to pipe
and ripen to a gale as the sea rose with it. Sail had been soon diminished on the schooner;
but when I was relieved in my watch by the first officer, I hinted to the captain that it would
be best to lay the vessel to as soon as possible. We had been scudding before the tempest for
some hours under a close-reefed foresail, and I feared if we did not bring our craft to the
wind at once, we would either run her under, or be swamped in attempting the manoeuvre when
the waves got higher. The captain, however, with his usual submission to the views of the wrong
person, took the advice of the helmsman, who happened to be older than I, and the schooner
was allowed to dash on either through or over the seas, at the speed of a racer.

By this time the forward deck was always under water, and the men gathered abaft the trunk
to keep as dry as possible. Officers and crew were huddled together pell-mell, and, with our
usual loose discipline, every body joined in the conversation and counsel. Before sundown I
again advised the laying-to of the schooner; but the task had now become so formidable that
the men who dreaded the job, assured the captain that the wind would fall as the moon arose.
Yet, when the dim orb appeared above the thick, low-drifting scud, the gale increased. The
light rather hinted than revealed the frightful scene around that egg-shell on the lashed and
furious sea. Each wave swept over us, but our buoyant craft rose on the succeeding swell, and
cleft its crest with her knife-like prow. It was now too late to attempt bringing her to the
wind; still it became more urgent to do something to prevent us from being submerged by the
huge seas, which came thundering after us like avalanches on our quarters.

The perilous dilemma of our doubtful captain and his dainty mate, may be easily imagined. Every
body had an opinion, and of course they vied with each other in absurdity;--at last some one
proposed to cut away the foresail, and bring her to the wind under bare poles.

I was "conning" the schooner when this insane scheme was broached, and fearing that the captain
might adopt it, I leaped on the hatch, after calling the boatswain to my place, and assured
the crew that if they severed the sail, we would lose command of the vessel, so that with impaired
headway, the next wave that struck her would show her keel to the skies and her dock to the
fishes. I exhorted them to drive her faster if possible rather than stop. To turn out the "balance
reef," I said, was our only salvation;--and I alleged that I had seen a vessel saved before
in precisely the same way. Cowards, with death clutching their throats, were soon convinced
by a man of nerve. I availed myself of the instantaneous silence that followed my act, and
before the captain could think or speak, I leaped to the boom with my sharp knife, cutting
the reef-points slowly and carefully, so as not to allow the foresail to be inflated and torn
by a single blast.

My judgment was correct. Our increased canvas immediately sent us skimming over the waves;
the rollers no longer combed dangerously over our quarter; we scudded steadily throughout the
remnant of the gale; and, next night, at sundown, we rested on a quiet, lake-like ocean, taughtening
the strained rigging, and priding ourselves mightily on the hazards we encountered and overcame.
The Minorcan skipper was satisfied that no man ever before performed so daring an exploit.
He was, moreover, convinced, that no one but himself could have carried the schooner through
so frightful a storm, or would have invented the noble expedient of driving instead of stripping
her!

From this hour all semblance of regular discipline was abandoned. Sailors, who are suffered
to tread the quarter-deck familiarly and offer their opinions, never get over the permitted
freedom. Our ragamuffins of the Areostatico could never abide the idea that the youngest seaman
aboard,--and he, too, a foreigner,--should have proved the best sailor. The skilful performance
of my duty was the source of a rankling grudge. As I would not mix with the scamps, they called
me arrogant. My orders were negligently obeyed; and, in fact, every thing in the schooner became
as comfortless as possible.

Forty-one days, however, brought us to the end of our voyage at the mouth of the Rio Pongo.
No one being acquainted with the river's entrance or navigation, the captain and four hands
went ashore for a pilot, who came off in the afternoon, while our master ascended in a boat
to the slave-factory at Bangalang. Four o'clock found us entering the Rio Pongo, with tide
and wind in our favor, so that before the sun sank into the Atlantic Ocean we were safe at
our anchorage below the settlement.

While we were slowly drifting between the river banks, and watching the gorgeous vegetation
of Africa, which, that evening, first burst upon my sight, I fell into a chat with the native
pilot, who had been in the United States, and spoke English remarkably well. Berak very soon
inquired whether there was any one else on board who spoke the language besides myself, and
when told that the cabin-boy alone knew it, he whispered a story which, in truth, I was not
in the least surprised to hear.

That afternoon one of our crew had attempted the captain's life, while on shore, by snapping
a carabine behind his back! Our pilot learned the fact from a native who followed the party
from the landing, along the beach; and its truth was confirmed, in his belief, by the significant
boasts made by the tallest of the boatmen who accompanied him on board. He was satisfied that
the entire gang contemplated our schooner's seizure.

The pilot's story corroborated some hints I received from our cook during the voyage. It struck
me instantly, that if a crime like this were really designed, no opportunity for its execution
could be more propitious than the present. I determined, therefore, to omit no precaution that
might save the vessel and the lives of her honest officers. On examining the carabines brought
back from shore, which I had hurriedly thrown into the arm-chest on deck, I found that the
lock of this armory had been forced, and several pistols and cutlasses abstracted.

Preparations had undoubtedly been made to assassinate us. As night drew on, my judgment, as
well as nervousness, convinced me that the darkness would not pass without a murderous attempt.
There was an unusual silence. On reaching port, there is commonly fun and merriment among crews;
but the usual song and invariable guitar were omitted from the evening's entertainment. I searched
the deck carefully, yet but two mariners were found above the hatches apparently asleep. Inasmuch
as I was only a subordinate officer, I could not command, nor had I any confidence in the nerve
or judgment of the chief mate, if I trusted my information to him. Still I deemed it a duty
to tell him the story, as well as my discovery about the missing arms. Accordingly, I called
the first officer, boatswain, and cook, as quietly as possible, into the cabin; leaving our
English cabin-boy to watch in the companion way. Here I imparted our danger, and asked their
assistance in striking the first blow. My plan was to secure the crew, and give them battle.
The mate, as I expected, shrank like a girl, declining any step till the captain returned.
The cook and boatswain, however, silently approved my movement; so that we counselled our cowardly
comrade to remain below, while we assumed the responsibility and risk of the enterprise.

It may have been rather rash, but I resolved to begin the rescue, by shooting down, like a
dog and without a word, the notorious Cuban convict who had attempted the captain's life. This,
I thought, would strike panic into the mutineers; and end the mutiny in the most bloodless
way. Drawing a pair of large horse-pistols from beneath the captain's pillow, and examining
the load, I ordered the cook and boatswain to follow me to the deck. But the craven officer
would not quit his hold on my person. He besought me not to commit murder. He clung to me with
the panting fear and grasp of a woman. He begged me, with every term of endearment, to desist;
and, in the midst of my scuffle to throw him off, one of the pistols accidentally exploded.
A moment after, my vigilant watch-boy screamed from the starboard, a warning "look-out!" and,
peering forward in the blinding darkness as I emerged from the lighted cabin, I beheld the
stalwart form of the ringleader, brandishing a cutlass within a stride of me. I aimed and fired.
We both fell; the mutineer with two balls in his abdomen, and I from the recoil of an over-charged
pistol.

My face was cut, and my eye injured by the concussion; but as neither combatant was deprived
of consciousness, in a moment we were both on our feet. The Spanish felon, however, pressed
his hand on his bowels, and rushed forward exclaiming he was slain; but, in his descent to
the forecastle, he was stabbed in the shoulder with a bayonet by the boatswain, whose vigorous
blow drove the weapon with such tremendous force that it could hardly be withdrawn from the
scoundrel's carcass.

I said I was up in a minute; and, feeling my face with my hand, I perceived a quantity of blood
on my cheek, around which I hastily tied a handkerchief, below my eyes. I then rushed to the
arm-chest. At that moment, the crack of a pistol, and a sharp, boyish cry, told me that my
pet was wounded beside me. I laid him behind the hatchway, and returned to the charge. By this
time I was blind with rage, and fought, it seems, like a madman. I confess that I have no personal
recollection whatever of the following events, and only learned them from the subsequent report
of the cook and boatswain.

I stood, they said, over the arm-chest like one spell-bound. My eyes were fixed on the forecastle;
and, as head after head loomed out of the darkness above the hatch, I discharged carabine after
carabine at the mark. Every thing that moved fell by my aim. As I fired the weapons, I flung
them away to grasp fresh ones: and, when the battle was over, the cook aroused me from my mad
stupor, still groping wildly for arms in the emptied chest.

As the smoke cleared off, the fore part of our schooner seemed utterly deserted: yet we found
two men dead, one in mortal agony on the deck, while the ringleader and a colleague were gasping
in the forecastle. Six pistols had been fired against us from forward; but, strange to say,
the only efficient ball was the one that struck my English boy's leg.

When I came to my senses, my first quest was for the gallant boatswain, who, being unarmed
on the forecastle when the unexpected discharge took place, and seeing no chance of escape
from my murderous carabines, took refuge over the bows.

Our cabin-boy was soon quieted. The mutineers needed but little care for their hopeless wounds,
while the felon chief, like all such wretches, died in an agony of despicable fear, shrieking
for pardon. My shriving of his sins was a speedy rite!

Such was my first night in Africa!

CHAPTER VII.

There are casual readers who may consider the scene described in the last chapter unnatural.
It may be said that a youth, whose life had been chequered by trials and disasters, but who
preserved a pure sensibility throughout them, is sadly distorted when portrayed as expanding,
at a leap, into a desperado. I have but little to say in reply to these objections, save that
the occurrences are perfectly true as stated, and, moreover, that I am satisfied they were
only the natural developments of my character.

From my earliest years I have adored nobility of soul, and detested dishonor and treachery.
I have passed through scenes which will be hereafter told, that the world may qualify by harsh
names; yet I have striven to conduct myself throughout them, not only with the ideas of fairness
current among reckless men, but with the truth that, under all circumstances, characterizes
an honorable nature.

Now, the tragedy of my first night on the Rio Pongo was my transition from pupilage to responsible
independence. I do not allege in a boastful spirit that I was a man of courage; because courage,
or the want of it, are things for which a person is no more responsible than he is for the
possession or lack of physical strength. I was, moreover, always a man of what I may style
self-possessed passion. I was endowed with something more than cool energy; or, rather, cool
energy was heightened and sublimated by the fire of an ardent nature. Hitherto, I had been
tempered down by the habitual obedience to which I was subjected as a sailor under lawful discipline.
But the events of the last six months, and especially the gross relaxation on the voyage to
Africa, the risks we had run in navigating the vessel, and the outlaws that surrounded me,
not only kept my mind for ever on the alert, but aroused my dormant nature to a full sense
of duty and self-protection.

Is it unnatural, then, for a man whose heart and nerves have been laid bare for months, to
quiver with agony and respond with headlong violence, when imperilled character, property and
life, hang upon the fiat of his courageous promptitude? The doubters may cavil over the philosophy,
but I think I may remain content with the fact. I did my duty--dreadful as it was.

Let me draw a veil over our gory decks when the gorgeous sun of Africa shot his first rays
through the magnificent trees and herbage that hemmed the placid river. Five bodies were cast
into the stream, and the traces of the tragedy obliterated as well as possible. The recreant
mate, who plunged into the cabin at the report of the first pistol from the forecastle, reappeared
with haggard looks and trembling frame, to protest that he had no hand in what he called "the
murder." The cook, boatswain, and African pilot, recounted the whole transaction to the master,
who inserted it in the log-book, and caused me to sign the narrative with unimplicated witnesses.
Then the wound of the cabin-boy was examined and found to be trifling, while mine, though not
painful, was thought to imperil my sight. The flint lock of a rebounding pistol had inflicted
three gashes, just beneath the eye on my cheek.

There was but little appetite for breakfast that day. After the story was told and recorded,
we went sadly to work unmooring the vessel, bringing her slowly like a hearse to an anchorage
in front of Bangalang, the residence and factory of Mr. Ormond, better known by the country-name
of "Mongo John." This personage came on board early in the morning with our returned captain,
and promised to send a native doctor to cure both my eye and the boy's leg, making me pledge
him a visit as soon as the vessel's duties would permit.

That evening the specie was landed, and the schooner left in my charge by the master, with
orders to strip, repair, and provide for the voyage home. Before night, Mongo John fulfilled
his promise of a physician, who came on board with his prescription,--not in his pocket, but
by his side! He ordered my torn cheek to be bathed, every half-hour, with human milk fresh
from the breast; and, in order to secure a prompt, pure, and plentiful supply, a stout negress
and her infant were sent, with orders to remain as long as her lacteal services might be required!
I cannot say whether nature or the remedy healed my wound, but in a short time the flesh cicatrized,
and all symptoms of inflammation disappeared entirely.

It required ten days to put the Areostatico in ship-shape and supply her with wood and water.
Provisions had been brought from Havana, so that it was only necessary we should stow them
in an accessible manner. As our schooner was extremely small, we possessed no slave-deck; accordingly,
mats were spread over the fire-wood which filled the interstices of the water-casks, in order
to make an even surface for our cargo's repose.

When my tiresome task was done, I went ashore--almost for the first time--to report progress
to the master; but he was still unprepared to embark his living freight. Large sums, far in
advance of the usual market, were offered by him for a cargo of boys; still we were delayed
full twenty days longer than our contract required before a supply reached Bangalang.

As I had promised Mongo John, or John the Chief, to visit his factory, I took this opportunity
to fulfil my pledge. He received me with elaborate politeness; showed me his town, barracoons,
and stores, and even stretched a point, to honor me by an introduction to the penetralia of
his harem. The visit paid, he insisted that I should dine with him; and a couple of choice
bottles were quickly disposed of. Ormond, like myself, had been a sailor. We spoke of the lands,
scenes, and adventures, each had passed through, while a fresh bottle was called to fillip
our memories. There is nothing so nourishing to friendship as wine! Before sundown our electric
memories had circled the globe, and our intimacy culminated.

While the rosy fluid operated as a sedative on the Mongo, and glued him to his chair in a comfortable
nap, it had a contrary effect on my exhilarated nerves. I strolled to the verandah to get a
breath of fresh air from the river, but soon dashed off in the darkness to the sacred precincts
of the harem! I was not detected till I reached nearly the centre of the sanctuary where Ormond
confined his motley group of black, mulatto, and quarteroon wives. The first dame who perceived
me was a bright mulatto, with rosy checks, sloe-like eyes, coquettish turban, and most voluptuous
mouth, whom I afterwards discovered to be second in the chief's affections. In an instant the
court resounded with a chattering call to her companions, so that, before I could turn, the
whole band of gabbling parrots hemmed me in with a deluge of talk. Fame had preceded me! My
sable nurse was a servant of the harem, and her visit to the schooner, with the tale of the
tragedy, supplied anecdotes for a lifetime. Every body was on the qui vive to see the "white
fighter." Every body was crazy to feel the "white skin" she had healed. Then, with a sudden,
childish freak of caprice, they ran off from me as if afraid, and at once rushed back again
like a flock of glib-tongued and playful monkeys. I could not comprehend a word they said;
but the bevy squealed with quite as much pleasure as if I did, and peered into my eyes for
answers, with impish devilry at my wondering ignorance.

At last, my sable friends seemed not only anxious to amuse themselves but to do something for
my entertainment also. A chatter in a corner settled what it should be. Two or three brought
sticks, while two or three brought coals. A fire was quickly kindled in the centre of the court;
and as its flames lit up the area, a whirling circle of half-stripped girls danced to the monotonous
beat of a tom-tom. Presently, the formal ring was broken, and each female stepping out singly,
danced according to her individual fancy. Some were wild, some were soft, some were tame, and
some were fiery. After so many years I have no distinct recollection of the characteristic
movements of these semi-savages, especially as the claret and champagne rather fermented in
my brain, and possessed me with the idea that it was my duty to mingle in the bounding throng.
I resolved that the barbarians should have a taste of Italian quality!

Accordingly, I leaped from the hammock where I had swung idly during the scene, and, beginning
with a balancez and an avant-deux, terminated my terpsichorean exhibition by a regular "double
shuffle" and sailor's hornpipe. The delirious laughter, cracked sides, rollicking fun, and
outrageous merriment, with which my feats were received, are unimaginable by sober-sided people.
Tired of my single exhibition, I seized the prettiest of the group by her slim, shining waist,
and whirled her round and round the court in the quickest of waltzes, until, with a kiss, I
laid her giddy and panting on the floor. Then, grasping another,--another,--another,--and another,--and
treating each to the same dizzy swim, I was about waltzing the whole seraglio into quiescence,
when who should rise before us but the staring and yawning Mongo!

The apparition sobered me. A quarteroon pet of Ormond,--just spinning into fashionable and
luscious insensibility,--fell from my arms into those of her master; and while I apologized
for the freak, I charged it altogether to the witchcraft of his wit and wine.

"Ha!" said the Mongo, "St. Vitus is in your Italian heels the moment you are within hail of
music and dancing; and, by Jove, it seems you can scent a petticoat as readily as a hound tracks
runaways. But there's no harm in dancing, Don Téodore; only hereafter I hope you will enjoy
the amusement in a less uproarious manner. In Africa we are fond of a siesta after dinner;
and I recommend you to get, as soon as possible, under the lee of another bottle."

We retired once more to his mahogany; and, under the spell of my chieftain's claret and sea-yarns,
I was soon lapped in delicious sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next day the captain of the Areostatico drew me aside confidentially, and hinted that Ormond
had taken such a decided fancy for me, and insinuated so warm a wish for my continuance as
his clerk at Bangalang, that he thought it quite a duty, though a sad one, to give his advice
on the subject.

"It may be well for your purse, Don Téodore, to stay with so powerful a trader; but beside
the improvement of your fortunes, there are doubts whether it will be wholesome for you to
revisit Havana, at least at present. It may be said, amigo mio, that you commenced the warfare
on board the schooner;--and as five men were slain in the affray, it will be necessary for
me to report the fact to the commandante as soon as I arrive. Now it is true, hijo mio, that
you saved the vessel, cargo, specie, and my cousin; yet, God knows what may be the result of
Havana justice. You will have a rigid examination, and I rather think you will be imprisoned
until the final decision is made. When that consummation shall occur is quite uncertain. If
you have friends, they will be bled as long as possible before you get out; if you have none,
no one will take pains to see you released without recompense. When you see daylight once more,
the rest of these ragamuffins and the felon friends of the dead men, will begin to dog your
steps, and make Havana uncomfortable as well as dangerous; so that I have no hesitation in
recommending you to stay where you are, and take the doubloons of the Mongo."

I thought I saw at a glance the drift of this hypocritical fanfaronade, and was satisfied he
only desired to get rid of me in order to reinstate the chief mate in a situation which he
surely could not occupy as long as I was on board. As I meant to stay in Africa, I told him
at once that I grieved because he had not spoken his wishes openly, boldly, and honestly, like
a man, but had masked an ungrateful cowardice by hypocritical solicitude for my welfare. I
departed abruptly with a scowl of contempt; and as he hastened to hide his blanched face in
the cabin, I called a boat, and throwing my sea chest, bedding, and arms, aboard, committed
my fate to the African continent. A half-hour turned and decided my fate!

Mr. Ormond received me very cordially, and, installing me in my new secretaryship, promised
a private establishment, a seat at his table, and a negro per month,--or its value at the rate
of forty dollars,--for my services.

When the runners returned from the interior with the slaves required to complete the Areostatico's
cargo, I considered it my duty to the Italian grocer of Regla to dispatch his vessel personally.
Accordingly, I returned on board to aid in stowing one hundred and eight boys and girls, the
eldest of whom did not exceed fifteen years! As I crawled between decks, I confess I could
not imagine how this little army was to be packed or draw breath in a hold but twenty-two inches
high! Yet the experiment was promptly made, inasmuch as it was necessary to secure them below
in descending the river, in order to prevent their leaping overboard and swimming ashore. I
found it impossible to adjust the whole in a sitting posture; but we made them lie down in
each other's laps, like sardines in a can, and in this way obtained space for the entire cargo.
Strange to tell, when the Areostatico reached Havana, but three of these "passengers" had paid
the debt of nature.

As I left the schooner a few miles outside the bar, I crossed her side without an adieu save
for the English cabin-boy, whose fate I was pained to intrust to these stupid Spaniards. Indeed,
the youth almost belonged to me, for I may say he owed his life to my interference.

Previous to the voyage, while waiting in the harbor of Havana for a crew, our vessel was anchored
near the wharves, next to an English merchantman. One afternoon I heard a scream from the neighboring
craft, and perceived a boy rush from the cabin with his face dyed in blood. He was instantly
pursued by a burly seaman, inflicting blows with his fist. I implored the brute to desist,
but my interference seemed to augment his choler to such a degree, that he seized a handspike
to knock the stripling down. Upon this I called the child to leap overboard, at the same time
commanding a hand to lower my boat and scull in the direction of his fall. The boy obeyed my
voice; and in a few minutes I had him on board blessing me for his safety. But the drunken
Briton vented his rage in the most indecent language; and had his boat been aboard, I doubt
not a summary visit would have terminated in a fight on my deck.

However, as good luck would have it, his skiff was at the landing, so that there was ample
time, before he could reach the Areostatico, to tie up the bruised face and broken rib of the
child, and to conceal him in the house of a Spanish crone in Havana, who cured the maladies
of credulous seamen by witchcraft!

After nightfall the master of the British vessel came aboard to claim his boy; but as he was
petulant and seemed disposed to carry matters with a high hand, my temper rose in resistance,
and I refused to release the child until he sealed with an oath his promise to treat him better
in future. But the cruel scoundrel insisted on unconditional surrender; and to end the controversy,
I was compelled to order him off the schooner.

British pluck of course would not allow a captain to be deprived so easily of his property,
so the British consul was invoked to appeal to the captain of the port. This personage summoned
me before him, and listened calmly to a story which added no honor to English mariners. In
my last interview with the boy he implored my continued protection and concealment; so that
when the Spanish official declared--notwithstanding the officer's conduct--that the vessel
was entitled to her crew, and that I must surrender the child, I excused myself from complying
by pleading utter ignorance of his whereabout. In view of this contingency, I directed the
woman to hide him in a place of which I should be ignorant. So I told no lie, and saved the
boy from his tyrant.

The inquiry was dropped at this stage of proceedings. When the British vessel sailed a few
days after, I caused the youth to be brought from his concealment; and, with our captain's
consent, brought him aboard to serve in our cabin.

I have narrated this little episode in consequence of my love for the boy, and because he was
the only English subject I ever knew to ship in a slaver.

I requested the Areostatico's owners to pay him liberally for his fidelity when he got back
to Havana; and I was happy to learn next year, that they not only complied with my request,
but sent him home to his friends in Liverpool.

CHAPTER VIII.

When I got back to Bangalang, my first movement was to take possession of the quarters assigned
me by the Mongo, and to make myself as comfortable as possible in a land whose chief requirements
are shade and shelter. My house, built of cane plastered with mud, consisted of two earthen-floored
rooms and a broad verandah. The thatched roof was rather leaky, while my furniture comprised
two arm-chests covered with mats, a deal table, a bamboo settle, a tin-pan with palm-oil for
a lamp, and a German looking-glass mounted in a paper frame. I augmented these comforts by
the addition of a trunk, mattress, hammock and pair of blankets; yet, after all this embellishment,
I confess my household was rather a sorry affair.

It is time I should make the reader acquainted with the individual who was the presiding genius
of the scene, and, in some degree, a type of his peculiar class in Africa.

Mr. Ormond was the son of an opulent slave-trader from Liverpool, and owed his birth to the
daughter of a native chief on the Rio Pongo. His father seems to have been rather proud of
his mulatto stripling, and dispatched him to England to be educated. But Master John had made
little progress in belles-lettres, when news of the trader's death was brought to the British
agent, who refused the youth further supplies of money. The poor boy soon became an outcast
in a land which had not yet become fashionably addicted to philanthropy; and, after drifting
about awhile in England, he shipped on board a merchantman. The press-gang soon got possession
of the likely mulatto for the service of his Britannic Majesty. Sometimes he played the part
of dandy waiter in the cabin; sometimes he swung a hammock with the hands in the forecastle.
Thus, five years slipped by, during which the wanderer visited most of the West Indian and
Mediterranean stations.

At length the prolonged cruise was terminated, and Ormond paid off. He immediately determined
to employ his hoarded cash in a voyage to Africa, where he might claim his father's property.
The project was executed; his mother was still found alive; and, fortunately for the manly
youth, she recognized him at once as her first-born.

The reader will recollect that these things occurred on the west coast of Africa in the early
part of the present century, and that the tenure of property, and the interests of foreign
traders, were controlled entirely by such customary laws as prevailed on the spot. Accordingly,
a "grand palaver" was appointed, and all Mr. Ormond's brothers, sisters, uncles, and cousins,--many
of whom were in possession of his father's slaves or their descendants,--were summoned to attend.
The "talk" took plate at the appointed time. The African mother stood forth stanchly to assert
the identity and rights of her first-born, and, in the end, all of the Liverpool trader's property,
in houses, lands, and negroes, that could be ascertained, was handed over, according to coast-law,
to the returned heir.

When the mulatto youth was thus suddenly elevated into comfort, if not opulence, in his own
country, he resolved to augment his wealth by pursuing his father's business. But the whole
country was then desolated by a civil war, occasioned, as most of them are, by family disputes,
which it was necessary to terminate before trade could be comfortably established.

To this task Ormond steadfastly devoted his first year. His efforts were seconded by the opportune
death of one of the warring chiefs. A tame opponent,--a brother of Ormond's mother,--was quickly
brought to terms by a trifling present; so that the sailor boy soon concentrated the family
influence, and declared himself "MONGO," or, Chief of the River.

Bangalang had long been a noted factory among the English traders. When war was over, Ormond
selected this post as his permanent residence, while he sent runners to Sierra Leone and Goree
with notice that he would shortly be prepared with ample cargoes. Trade, which had been so
long interrupted by hostilities, poured from the interior. Vessels from Goree and Sierra Leone
were seen in the offing, responding to his invitation. His stores were packed with British,
French, and American fabrics; while hides, wax, palm-oil, ivory, gold, and slaves, were the
native products for which Spaniards and Portuguese hurried to proffer their doubloons and bills.

It will be readily conjectured that a very few years sufficed to make Jack Ormond not only
a wealthy merchant, but a popular Mongo among the great interior tribes of Foulahs and Mandingoes.
The petty chiefs, whose territory bordered the sea, flattered him with the title of king; and,
knowing his Mormon taste, stocked his harem with their choicest children as the most valuable
tokens of friendship and fidelity.

When I was summoned to act as secretary or clerk of such a personage, I saw immediately that
it would be well not only to understand my duties promptly, but to possess a clear estimate
of the property I was to administer and account for. Ormond's easy habits satisfied me that
he was not a man of business originally, or had become sadly negligent under the debasing influence
of wealth and voluptuousness. My earliest task, therefore, was to make out a minute inventory
of his possessions, while I kept a watchful eye on his stores, never allowing any one to enter
them unattended. When I presented this document, which exhibited a large deficiency, the Mongo
received it with indifference, begging me not to "annoy him with accounts." His manner indicated
so much petulant fretfulness, that I augured from it the conscious decline or disorder of his
affairs.

As I was returning to the warehouse from this mortifying interview, I encountered an ancient
hag,--a sort of superintendent Cerberus or manager of the Mongo's harem,--who, by signs, intimated
that she wanted the key to the "cloth-chest," whence she immediately helped herself to several
fathoms of calico. The crone could not speak English, and, as I did not understand the Soosoo
dialect, we attempted no oral argument about the propriety of her conduct; but, taking a pencil
and paper, and making signs that she should go to the Mongo, who would write an order for the
raiment, I led her quietly to the door. The wrath of the virago was instantly kindled, while
her horrid face gleamed with that devilish ferocity, which, in some degree is lost by Africans
who dwell on our continent. During the reign of my predecessors, it seems that she had been
allowed to control the store keys, and to help herself unstintedly. I knew not, of course,
what she said on this occasion; but the violence of her gestures, the nervous spasms of her
limbs, the flashing of her eyes, the scream of her voluble tongue, gave token that she swelled
with a rage which was augmented by my imperturbable quietness. At dinner, I apprised Mr. Ormond
of the negro's conduct; but he received the announcement with the same laugh of indifference
that greeted the account of his deficient inventory.

That night I had just stretched myself on my hard pallet, and was revolving the difficulties
of my position with some degree of pain at my forced continuance in Africa, when my servant
tapped softly at the door, and announced that some one demanded admittance, but begged that
I would first of all extinguish the light. I was in a country requiring caution; so I felt
my pistols before I undid the latch. It was a bright, star-light night; and, as I opened the
door sufficiently to obtain a glance beyond,--still maintaining my control of the aperture,--I
perceived the figure of a female, wrapped in cotton cloth from head to foot, except the face,
which I recollected as that of the beautiful quarteroon I was whirling in the waltz, when surprised
by the Mongo. She put forth her hands from the folds of her garment, and laying one softly
on my arm, while she touched her lips with the other, looked wistfully behind, and glided into
my apartment.

This poor girl, the child of a mulatto mother and a white parent, was born in the settlement
of Sierra Leone, and had acquired our language with much more fluency than is common among
her race. It was said that her father had been originally a missionary from Great Britain,
but abandoned his profession for the more lucrative traffic in slaves, to which he owed an
abundant fortune. It is probable that the early ecclesiastical turn of her delinquent progenitor
induced him, before he departed for America, to bestow on his child the biblical name of ESTHER.

I led my trembling visitor to the arm-chest, and, seating her gently by my side, inquired why
I was favored by so stealthy a visit from the harem. My suspicions were aroused; for, though
a novice in Africa, I knew enough of the discipline maintained in these slave factories, not
to allow my fancy to seduce me with the idea that her visit was owing to mad-cap sentimentality.

The manner of these quarteroon girls, whose complexion hardly separates them from our own race,
is most winningly graceful; and Esther, with abated breath, timidly asked my pardon for intruding,
while she declared I had made so bitter an enemy of Unga-golah,--the head-woman of the seraglio,--that,
in spite of danger, she stole to my quarters with a warning. Unga swore revenge. I had insulted
and thwarted her; I was able to thwart her at all times, if I remained the Mongo's "book-man;"--I
must soon "go to another country;" but, if I did not, I would quickly find the food of Bangalang
excessively unwholesome! "Never eat any thing that a Mandingo offers you," said Esther. "Take
your meals exclusively from the Mongo's table. Unga-golah knows all the Mandingo jujus, and
she will have no scruple in using them in order to secure once more the control of the store
keys. Good night!"

With this she rose to depart, begging me to be silent about her visit, and to believe that
a poor slave could feel true kindness for a white man, or even expose herself to save him.

If an unruly passion had tugged at my heartstrings, the soft appeal, the liquid tones, the
tenderness of this girl's humanity, would have extinguished it in an instant. It was the first
time for many a long and desolate mouth that I had experienced the gentle touch of a woman's
hand, or felt the interest of mortal solicitude fall like a refreshing dew upon my heart! Who
will censure me for halting on my door-sill as I led her forth, retaining her little hand in
mine, while I cast my eyes over the lithe symmetry of those slender and rounded limbs; while
I feasted on the flushed magnolia of those beautiful cheeks, twined my fingers in the trailing
braids of that raven hair, peered into the blackness of those large and swimming orbs, felt
a tear trickle down my hardening face, and left, on those coral lips, the print of a kiss that
was fuller of gratitude than passion!

       *       *       *       *       *

Nowadays that Mormonism is grafting a "celestial wifery" upon the civilization of the nineteenth
century, I do not think it amiss to recall the memory of those African establishments which
formed so large a portion of a trader's homestead. It is not to be supposed that the luxurious
harem of Turkey or Egypt was transferred to the Guinea coast, or that its lofty walls were
barricaded by stout gates, guarded by troops of sable eunuchs. The "wifery" of my employer
was a bare inclosure, formed by a quadrangular cluster of mud-houses, the entrance to whose
court-yard was never watched save at night. Unga-golah, the eldest and least delectable of
the dames, maintained the establishment's police, assigned gifts or servants to each female,
and distributed her master's favors according to the bribes she was cajoled by.

In early life and during his gorged prosperity, Ormond,--a stout, burly, black-eyed, broad-shouldered,
short-necked man,--ruled his harem with the rigid decorum of the East. But as age and misfortunes
stole over the sensual voluptuary, his mental and bodily vigor became impaired, not only by
excessive drink, but by the narcotics to which he habitually resorted for excitement. When
I became acquainted with him, his face and figure bore the marks of a worn-out debauché. His
harem now was a fashion of the country rather than a domestic resort. His wives ridiculed him,
or amused themselves as they pleased. I learned from Esther that there was hardly one who did
not "flirt" with a lover in Bangalang, and that Unga-golah was blinded by gifts, while the
stupor of the Mongo was perpetuated by liquor.

It may be supposed that in such a seraglio, and with such a master, there were but few matrimonial
jealousies; still, as it would be difficult to find, even in our most Christian society, two
females without some lurking bitterness towards rivals, so it is not to be imagined that the
Mongo's mansion was free from womanly quarrels. These disputes chiefly occurred when Ormond
distributed gifts of calico, beads, tobacco, pipes and looking-glasses. If the slightest preference
or inequality was shown, adieu to order. Unga-golah descended below zero! The favorite wife,
outraged by her neglected authority, became furious; and, for a season, pandemonium was let
loose in Bangalang.

One of these scenes of passion occurs to me as I write. I was in the store with the Mongo when
an aggrieved dame, not remarkable either for delicacy of complexion or sweetness of odor, entered
the room, and marching up with a swagger to her master, dashed a German looking-glass on the
floor at his feet. She wanted a larger one, for the glass bestowed on her was half an inch
smaller than the gifts to her companions.

When Ormond was sober, his pride commonly restrained him from allowing the women to molest
his leisure; so he quietly turned from the virago and ordered her out of the store.

But my lady was not to be appeased by dignity like this. "Ha!" shrieked the termagant, as she
wrenched off her handkerchief. "Ha!" yelled she, tearing off one sleeve, and then the other.
"Ha!" screamed the fiend, kicking a shoe into one corner, and the other shoe into another corner.
"Ha! Mongo!" roared the beldame, as she stripped every garment from her body and stood absolutely
naked before us, slapping her wool, cheeks, forehead, breasts, arms, stomach and limbs, and
appealing to Ormond to say where she was deficient in charms, that she should be slighted half
an inch on a looking-glass?

As the Mongo was silent, she strode up to me for an opinion; but, scarlet with blushes, I dived
behind the cloth-chest, and left the laughing Ormond to gratify the whim of the "model artiste."

Years afterwards, I remember seeing an infuriate Ethiopian fling her infant into the fire because
its white father preferred the child of another spouse. Indeed, I was glad my station at Bangalang
did not make it needful for the preservation of my respectability that I should indulge in
the luxury of African matrimony!

       *       *       *       *       *

But these exhibitions of jealous passion were not excited alone by the unequal distribution
of presents from the liege lord of Bangalang. I have observed that Ormond's wives took advantage
of his carelessness and age, to seek congenial companionship outside the harem. Sometimes the
preference of two of these sable belles alighted on the same lover, and then the battle was
transferred from a worthless looking-glass to the darling beau. When such a quarrel arose,
a meeting between the rivals was arranged out of the Mongo's hearing; when, throwing off their
waist-cloths, the controversy was settled between the female gladiators without much damage.
But, now and then, the matter was not left to the ladies. The sable lovers themselves took
up the conflict, and a regular challenge passed between the gay Othellos.

At the appointed time, the duellists appeared upon "the field of honor" accompanied by friends
who were to witness their victory or sympathize in their defeat. Each stalwart savage leaped
into the arena, armed with a cow-hide cat, whose sharp and triple thongs were capable of inflicting
the harshest blows. They stripped, and tossed three cowries into the air to determine which
of the two should receive the first lashing. The unfortunate loser immediately took his stand,
and received, with the firmness of a martyr, the allotted number of blows. Then came the turn
of the whipper, who, with equal constancy, offered his back to the scourge of the enraged sufferer.
Thus they alternated until one gave in, or until the bystanders decreed victory to him who
bore the punishment longest without wincing. The flayed backs of these "chivalrous men of honor"
were ever after displayed in token of bravery; and, doubtless, their Dulcineas devoted to their
healing the subtlest ointment and tenderest affection recognized among Africans.

CHAPTER IX.

My business habits and systematic devotion to the Mongo's interests soon made me familiar with
the broad features of "country trade;" but as I was still unable to speak the coast dialects,
Mr. Ormond--who rarely entered the warehouse or conversed about commerce--supplied an adroit
interpreter, who stood beside me and assisted in the retail of foreign merchandise, for rice,
ivory, palm-oil, and domestic provisions. The purchase of slaves and gold was conducted exclusively
by the Mongo, who did not consider me sufficiently initiated in native character and tricks
to receive so delicate a trust.

       *       *       *       *       *

Long and dreary were the days and nights of the apparently interminable "wet season." Rain
in a city, rain in the country, rain in a village, rain at sea, are sufficiently wearying,
even to those whose mental activity is amused or occupied by books or the concerns of life;
but who can comprehend the insufferable lassitude and despondency that overwhelm an African
resident, as he lies on his mat-covered arm-chest, and listens to the endless deluge pouring
for days, weeks, months, upon his leaky thatch?

At last, however, the season of rain passed by, and the "dry season" set in. This was the epoch
for the arrival of caravans from the interior; so that we were not surprised when our runners
appeared, with news that AHMAH-DE-BELLAH, son of a noted Fullah chief, was about to visit the
Rio Pongo with an imposing train of followers and merchandise. The only means of communication
with the interior of Africa are, for short distances, by rivers, and, for longer ones, by "paths"
or "trails" leading through the dense forest and among the hills, to innumerable "towns" that
stud this prolific land. Stephenson and McAdam have not been to Africa, and there are neither
turnpikes nor railways. Now, when the coast-traders of the west are apprised that caravans
are threading their way towards the Atlantic shores, it is always thought advisable to make
suitable preparations for the chiefs, and especially to greet them by messages, before their
arrival at the beach. Accordingly, "barkers" are sent forth on the forest "paths" to welcome
the visitors with gifts of tobacco and powder. "Barkers" are colored gentlemen, with fluent
tongues and flexible consciences, always in the train of factories on the coast, who hasten
to the wilderness at the first signal of a caravan's approach, and magnify the prosperity and
merchandise of their patrons with as much zeal and veracity as the "drummers" of more Christian
lands.

A few days after our band of travelling agents had departed on their mission, the crack of
fire-arms was heard from the hills in our rear, signifying that the Mongo's "barkers" had been
successful with the caravan in tow. A prompt response to the joyous signal was made by our
cannons; so that, after half an hour's firing, Ahmah-de-Bellah and his party emerged from the
smoke, marshalled by our band of singers, who preceded him, chanting with loud voices the praise
of the youthful chieftain. Behind the master came the principal traders and their slaves laden
with produce, and followed by forty captive negroes, secured by bamboo withes. These were succeeded
by three-score bullocks, a large flock of sheep or goats, and the females of the party; while
the procession was closed by the demure tread of a tame and stately OSTRICH!

It was the first time I had seen so odd an assemblage of beasts and humanity. Indeed, had the
troupe been accompanied by a bevy of ourang-outangs, I confess I might, at times, have had
difficulty in deciding the grade of animal life to which the object in front of me belonged.

Mr. Ormond, when put upon his mettle, was one of the ablest traders in Africa, and received
the Mahometan strangers with becoming state. He awaited Ahmah-de-Bellah and his committee of
head-traders on the piazza of his receiving-house, which was a rather stately edifice, one
hundred and fifty feet in length, built to be fire-proof for the protection of our stores.
When each Fullah stranger was presented, he shook hands and "snapped fingers" with the Mongo
several times; and, as every petty peddler in the train wanted to salaam, the "white man for
good luck," the process of presentation occupied at least an hour.

According to coast custom, as soon as these compliments were over, the caravan's merchandise
was deposited within our walls, not only for security, but in order that we might gauge the
value of the welcome the owners were entitled to receive. This precaution, though ungallant,
is extremely necessary, inasmuch as many of the interior dealers were in the habit of declaring,
on arrival, the value of their gold and ivory to be much greater than it was in fact, in order
to receive a more liberal "present." Even savages instinctively acquire the tricks of trade!

When the goods were stored, a couple of fat bullocks, with an abundant supply of rice, were
given to the visitors, and the chiefs of the caravan were billeted upon our townspeople. The
canaille built temporary huts for themselves in the outskirts; while Ahmah-de-Bellah, a strict
Mahometan, accompanied by two of his wives, was furnished with a pair of neat houses that had
been hastily fitted up with new and elegant mats.[A]

While the merchandise of these large caravans is unpaid for, their owners, by the custom of
the country, remain a costly burden upon the factories. We were naturally anxious to be free
from this expense as soon as possible, and gave notice next morning that "trade would begin
forthwith." Ahmah-de-Bellah, the chiefs of the caravans, and Mr. Ormond, at once entered into
negotiations, so that by nightfall a bargain had been struck, not only for their presents,
but for the price of merchandise, and the percentage to be retained as "native duty." Such
a preliminary liquidation with the heads of a caravan is ever indispensable, for, without their
assistance, it would be out of the question to traffic with the ragamuffins who hang on the
skirts of opulent chieftains.

Each morning, at daylight, a crier went through the town, announcing the character of the specific
trade which would be carried on during hours of business. One day it was in hides; another,
rice; another, cattle. When these were disposed of, a time was specially appointed for the
exchange of gold, ivory and slaves; and, at the agreed hour, Mr. Ormond, Ahmah-de-Bellah, and
myself, locked the doors of the warehouse, and traded through a window, while our "barkers"
distributed the goods to the Africans, often using their whips to keep the chattering and disputatious
scamps in order. Ahmah-de-Bellah pretended to inspect the measurement of cloth, powder and
tobacco, to insure justice to his compatriots; but, in reality, like a true tax-gatherer, he
was busy ascertaining his lawful percentage on the sale, in return for the protection from
robbery he gave the petty traders on their pilgrimage to the coast.

At length the market was cleared of sellers and merchandise--except the ostrich, which, when
all was over, reached the Mongo's hands as a royal gift from the Ali-Mami of Footha-Yallon,
the pious father of Ahmah-de-Bellah. The bird, it is true, was presented as a free offering;
yet it was hinted that the worthy Ali stood in need of reliable muskets, which his son would
take charge of on the journey home. As twenty of those warlike instruments were dispatched
by Ahmah-de-Bellah, the ostrich became rather a costly as well as characteristic gift. Each
of the traders, moreover, expected a "bungee" or "dash" of some sort, in token of good will,
and in proportion to his sales; so that we hastened to comply with all the common-law customs
of the country, in order to liberate Bangalang from the annoying crowd. They dropped off rapidly
as they were paid; and in a short time Ahmah-de-Bellah, his wives, and immediate followers,
were all that remained of the seven hundred Fullahs.

Ahmah-de-Bellah was a fine specimen of what may be considered "Young Africa," though he can
hardly be classed among the progressives or revolutionary propagandists of the age. In person
he was tall, graceful, and commanding. As the son of an important chief, he had been free from
those menial toils which, in that climate, soon obliterate all intellectual characteristics.
His face was well formed for an African's. His high and broad brow arched over a straight nose,
while his lips had nothing of that vulgar grossness which gives so sensual an expression to
his countrymen. Ahmah's manners to strangers or superiors were refined and courteous in a remarkable
degree; but to the mob of the coast and inferiors generally, he manifested that harsh and peremptory
tone which is common among the savages of a fiery clime.

Ahmah-de-Bellah was second son of the Ali-Mami, or King of Footha-Yallon, who allowed him to
exercise the prerogative of leading for the first time, a caravan to the seaboard, in honor
of attaining the discreet age of "twenty four rainy seasons." The privilege however, was not
granted without a view to profit by the courage of his own blood; for the Ali-Mami was never
known to suffer a son or relative to depart from his jurisdiction without a promise of half
the products of the lucrative enterprise.

The formation of a caravan, when the king's permission has been finally secured, is a work
of time and skill. At the beginning of the "dry season," the privileged chieftain departs with
power of life and death over his followers, and "squats" in one of the most frequented "paths"
to the sea, while he dispatches small bands of daring retainers to other trails throughout
the neighborhood, to blockade every passage to the beach. The siege of the highways is kept
up with vigor for a month or more, by these black Rob Roys and Robin Hoods, until a sufficient
number of traders may be trapped to constitute a valuable caravan, and give importance to its
leader. While this is the main purpose of the forest adventure, the occasion is taken advantage
of to collect a local tribute, due by small tribes to the Ali, which could not be obtained
otherwise. The despotic officer, moreover, avails himself of the blockade to stop malefactors
and absconding debtors. Goods that are seized in the possession of the latter may be sequestrated
to pay his creditors; but if their value is not equal to the debt, the delinquent, if a pagan,
is sold as a slave, but is let off with a bastinado, if he proves to be "one of the faithful."

It is natural to suppose that every effort is made by the small traders of the interior to
avoid these savage press-gangs. The poor wretches are not only subjected to annoying vassalage
by ruffian princes, but the blockade of the forest often diverts them from the point they originally
designed to reach,--forces them to towns or factories they had no intention of visiting,--and,
by extreme delay, wastes their provisions and diminishes their frugal profits. It is surprising
to see how admirably even savages understand and exercise the powers of sovereignty and the
rights of transit!

       *       *       *       *       *

While Ahmah-de-Bellah tarried at Bangalang, it was my habit to visit him every night to hear
his interesting chat, as it was translated by an interpreter. Sometimes, in return, I would
recount the adventures of my sea-faring life, which seemed to have a peculiar flavor for this
child of the wilderness, who now gazed for the first time on the ocean. Among other things,
I strove to convince him of the world's rotundity; but, to the last, he smiled incredulously
at my daring assertion, and closed the argument by asking me to prove it from the Koran? He
allowed me the honors due a traveller and "book-man;" but a mind that had swallowed, digested,
and remembered every text of Mahomet's volume, was not to be deceived by such idle fantasies.
He kindly undertook to conquer my ignorance of his creed by a careful exposition of its mysteries
in several long-winded lectures, and I was so patient a listener, that I believe Ahmah was
entirely satisfied of my conversion.

My seeming acquiescence was well repaid by the Fullah's confidence. He returned my nightly
calls with interest; and, visiting me in the warehouse during hours of business, became so
fervently wrapped up in my spiritual salvation, that he would spout Mahometanism for hours
through an interpreter. To get rid of him, one day, I promised to follow the Prophet with pleasure
if he consented to receive me; but I insisted on entering the "fold of the faithful" without
submitting to the peculiar rite of Mussulman baptism!

Ahmah-de-Bellah took the jest kindly, laughing like a good fellow, and from that day forward,
we were sworn cronies. The Fullah at once wrote down a favorite prayer in Arabic, requiring
as my spiritual guide, that I should commit it to memory for constant and ready use. After
a day or two, he examined me in the ritual; but, finding I was at fault after the first sentence,
reproached me pathetically upon my negligence and exhorted me to repentance,--much to the edification
of our interpreter, who was neither Jew, Christian, nor Mussulman.

But the visit of the young chieftain, which began in trade and tapered off in piety, drew to
a close. Ahmah-de-Bellah began to prepare for his journey homeward. As the day of departure
approached, I saw that my joke had been taken seriously by the Fullah, and that he relied upon
my apostasy. At the last moment, Ahmah tried to put me to a severe test, by suddenly producing
the holy book, and requiring me to seal our friendship by an oath that I would never abandon
Islamism. I contrived, however, adroitly to evade the affirmation by feigning an excessive
anxiety to acquire more profound knowledge of the Koran, before I made so solemn a pledge.

       *       *       *       *       *

It came to pass that, out of the forty slaves brought in the caravan, the Mongo rejected eight.
After some altercation, Ahmah-de-Bellah consented to discard seven; but he insisted that the
remaining veteran should be shipped, as he could neither kill nor send him back to Footha-Yallon.

I was somewhat curious to know the crime this culprit had committed, which was so heinous as
to demand his perpetual exile, though it spared his life. The chief informed me that the wretch
had slain his son; and, as there was no punishment for such an offence assigned by the Koran,
the judges of his country condemned him to be sold a slave to Christians,--a penalty they considered
worse than death.

Another curious feature of African law was developed in the sale of this caravan. I noticed
a couple of women drawn along with ropes around their necks, while others of their sex and
class were suffered to wander about without bonds. These females, the chief apprised us, would
have been burnt in his father's domains for witchcraft, had not his venerable ancestor been
so much distressed for powder that he thought their lives would be more valuable to his treasury
than their carcasses to outraged law.

It was a general complaint among the companions of Ahmah-de-Bellah that the caravan was scant
of slaves in consequence of this unfortunate lack of powder. The young chieftain promised better
things in future. Next year, the Mongo's barracoons should teem with his conquests. When the
"rainy season" approached, the Ali-Mami, his father, meant to carry on a "great war" against
a variety of small tribes, whose captives would replenish the herds, that, two years before,
had been carried off by a sudden blight.

I learned from my intelligent Fullah, that while the Mahometan courts of his country rescued
by law the people of their own faith from slavery, they omitted no occasion to inflict it,
as a penalty, upon the African "unbelievers" who fell within their jurisdiction. Among these
unfortunates, the smallest crime is considered capital, and a "capital crime" merits the profitable
punishment of slavery. Nor was it difficult, he told me, for a country of "true believers"
to acquire a multitude of bondsmen. They detested the institution, it is true, among themselves,
and among their own caste, but it was both right and reputable among the unorthodox. The Koran
commanded the "subjugation of the tribes to the true faith," so that, to enforce the Prophet's
order against infidels, they resorted to the white man's cupidity, which authorized its votaries
to enslave the negro! My inquisitiveness prompted me to demand whether these holy wars spoken
of in the Koran were not somewhat stimulated, in our time, at least, by the profits that ensued;
and I even ventured to hint that it was questionable whether the mighty chief of Footha-Yallon
would willingly storm a Kaffir fortification, were he not prompted by the booty of slaves!

Ahmah-de-Bellah was silent for a minute, when his solemn face gradually relaxed into a quizzical
smile, as he replied that, in truth, Mahometans were no worse than Christians, so that it was
quite likely,--if the white elect of heaven, who knew how to make powder and guns, did not
tempt the black man with their weapons,--the commands of Allah would be followed with less
zeal, and implements not quite so dangerous!

I could not help thinking that there was a good deal of quiet satire in the gossip of this
negro prince. According to the custom of his country, we "exchanged names" at parting; and,
while he put in my pocket the gift of a well-thumbed Koran, I slung over his shoulder a double-barrelled
gun. We walked side by side for some miles into the forest, as he went forth from Bangalang;
and as we "cracked fingers" for farewell, I promised, with my hand on my heart, that the "next
dry season" I would visit his father, the venerable Ali-Mami, in his realm of Footha-Yallon.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] As it may be interesting to learn the nature of trade on this coast,--which is commonly
misunderstood at consisting in slaves alone,--I thought it well to set down the inventory I
made out of the caravan's stock and its result, as the various items were intrusted to my guardianship.
The body of the caravan itself consisted of seven hundred persons, principally men; while the
produce was as follows:

  3,500 hides                                   $1,750
     19 large and prime teeth of ivory,          1,560
        Gold,                                    2,500
    600 pounds small ivory,                        320
     15 tons of rice,                              600
     40 slaves,                                  1,600
     36 bullocks,                                  360
        Sheep, goats, butter, vegetables,          100
    900 pounds bees-wax,                            95
                                               -------
  Total value of the caravan's merchandise,     $8,885
                                               -------

Our profits on this speculation were very flattering, both as regards sales and acquisitions.
Rice cost us one cent per pound; hides were delivered at eighteen or twenty cents each; a bullock
was sold for twenty or thirty pounds of tobacco; sheep, goats or hogs, cost two pounds of tobacco,
or a fathom of common cotton, each; ivory was purchased at the rate of a dollar the pound for
the best, while inferior kinds were given at half that price. In fact, the profit on our merchandise
was, at least, one hundred and fifty per cent. As gold commands the very best fabrics in exchange,
and was paid for at the rate of sixteen dollars an ounce, we made but seventy per cent. on
the article. The slaves were delivered at the rate of one hundred "bars" each. The "bar" is
valued on the coast at half a dollar; but a pound and a half of tobacco is also a "bar," as
well as a fathom of ordinary cotton cloth, or a pound of powder, while a common musket is equal
to twelve "bars." Accordingly, where slaves were purchased for one hundred and fifty pounds
of tobacco, only eighteen dollars were, in reality, paid; and when one hundred pounds of powder
were given, we got them for twenty dollars each. Our British muskets cost us but three dollars
apiece; yet we seldom purchased negroes for this article alone. If the women, offered in the
market, exceeded twenty-five years of age, we made a deduction of twenty per cent.; but if
they were stanchly-built, and gave promising tokens for the future, we took them at the price
of an able-bodied man. The same estimate was made for youths over four feet four inches high;
but children were rarely purchased at the factories, though they might be advantageously traded
in the native towns.

CHAPTER X.

I was a close watcher of Mongo John whenever he engaged in the purchase of slaves. As each
negro was brought before him, Ormond examined the subject, without regard to sex, from head
to foot. A careful manipulation of the chief muscles, joints, arm-pits and groins was made,
to assure soundness. The mouth, too, was inspected, and if a tooth was missing, it was noted
as a defect liable to deduction. Eyes, voice, lungs, fingers and toes were not forgotten; so
that when the negro passed from the Mongo's hands without censure, he might have been readily
adopted as a good "life" by an insurance company.

Upon one occasion, to my great astonishment, I saw a stout and apparently powerful man discarded
by Ormond as utterly worthless. His full muscles and sleek skin, to my unpractised eye, denoted
the height of robust health. Still, I was told that he had been medicated for the market with
bloating drugs, and sweated with powder and lemon-juice to impart a gloss to his skin. Ormond
remarked that these jockey-tricks are as common in Africa as among horse-dealers in Christian
lands; and desiring me to feel the negro's pulse, I immediately detected disease or excessive
excitement. In a few days I found the poor wretch, abandoned by his owner, a paralyzed wreck
in the hut of a villager at Bangalang.

When a slave becomes useless to his master in the interior, or exhibits signs of failing constitution,
he is soon disposed of to a peddler or broker. These men call to their aid a quack, familiar
with drugs, who, for a small compensation, undertakes to refit an impaired body for the temptation
of green-horns. Sometimes the cheat is successfully effected; but experienced slavers detect
it readily by the yellow eye, swollen tongue, and feverish skin.

After a few more lessons, I was considered by the Mongo sufficiently learned in the slave traffic
to be intrusted with the sole management of his stores. This exemption from commerce enabled
him to indulge more than ever in the use of ardent spirits, though his vanity to be called
"king," still prompted him to attend faithfully to all the "country palavers;"--and, let it
be said to his credit, his decisions were never defective in judgment or impartiality.

After I had been three months occupied in the multifarious intercourse of Bangalang and its
neighborhood, I understood the language well enough to dispense with the interpreter, who was
one of the Mongo's confidential agents. When my companion departed on a long journey, he counselled
me to make up with Unga-golah, the harem's Cerberus, as she suspected my intimacy with Esther,
who would doubtless be denounced to Ormond, unless I purchased the beldame's silence.

Indeed, ever since the night of warning, when the beautiful quarteroon visited my hovel, I
had contrived to meet this charming girl, as the only solace of my solitude. Amid all the wild,
passionate, and savage surroundings of Bangalang, Esther--the Pariah--was the only golden link
that still seemed to bind me to humanity and the lands beyond the seas. On that burning coast,
I was not excited by the stirring of an adventurous life, nor was my young heart seduced and
bewildered by absorbing avarice. Many a night, when the dews penetrated my flesh, as I looked
towards the west, my soul shrank from the selfish wretches around me, and went off in dreams
to the homes I had abandoned. When I came back to myself,--when I was forced to recognize my
doom in Africa,--when I acknowledged that my lot had been cast, perhaps unwisely, by myself,
my spirit turned, like the worm from the crashing heel, and found nothing that kindled for
me with the light of human sympathy, save this outcast girl. Esther was to me as a sister,
and when the hint of her harm or loss was given, I hastened to disarm the only hand that could
inflict a blow. Unga-golah was a woman, and a rope of sparkling coral for her neck, smothered
all her wrongs.

The months I had passed in Africa without illness,--though I went abroad after dark, and bathed
in the river during the heat of the day,--made me believe myself proof against malaria. But,
at length, a violent pain in my loins, accompanied by a swimming head, warned me that the African
fever held me in its dreaded gripe. In two days I was delirious. Ormond visited me; but I knew
him not, and in my madness, called on Esther, accompanying the name with terms of endearment.
This, I was told, stirred the surprise and jealousy of the Mongo, who forthwith assailed the
matron of his harem with a torrent of inquiries and abuse. But Unga-golah was faithful. The
beads had sealed her tongue; so that, with the instinctive adroitness peculiar to ladies of
her color, she fabricated a story which not only quieted the Mongo, but added lustre to Esther's
character.

The credulous old man finding Unga so well disposed towards his watchful clerk, restored the
warehouse to her custody. This was the height of her avaricious ambition; and, in token of
gratitude for my profitable malady, she contrived to let Esther become the nurse and guardian
of my sick bed.

As my fever and delirium continued, a native doctor, renowned for his skill, was summoned,
who ordered me to be cupped in the African fashion by scarifying my back and stomach with a
hot knife, and applying plantain leaves to the wounds. The operation allayed my pulse for a
few hours; but as the fever came back with new vigor, it became necessary for my attendants
to arouse the Mongo to a sense of my imminent danger. Yet Ormond, instead of springing with
alacrity to succor a friend and retainer in affliction, sent for a young man, named Edward
Joseph, who had formerly been in his employment, but was now settled on his own account in
Bangalang.

Joseph proved a good Samaritan. As soon as he dared venture upon my removal, he took me to
his establishment at Kambia, and engaged the services of another Mandingo doctor, in whose
absurdities he believed. But all the charms and incantations of the savage would not avail,
and I remained in a state of utter prostration and apparent insensibility until morning. As
soon as day dawned, my faithful Esther was again on the field of action; and this time she
insisted upon the trial of her judgment, in the person of an old white-headed woman, who accompanied
her in the guise of the greatest enchantress of the coast. A slave, paid in advance, was the
fee for which she undertook to warrant my cure.

No time was to be lost. The floor of a small and close mud hut was intensely heated, and thickly
strewn with moistened lemon leaves, over which a cloth was spread for a couch. As soon as the
bed was ready, I was borne to the hovel, and, covered with blankets, was allowed to steam and
perspire, while my medical attendant dosed me with half a tumbler of a green disgusting juice
which she extracted from herbs. This process of drinking and barbecuing was repeated during
five consecutive days, at the end of which my fever was gone. But my convalescence was not
speedy. For many a day, I stalked about, a useless skeleton, covering with ague, and afflicted
by an insatiable appetite, until a French physician restored me to health by the use of cold
baths at the crisis of my fever.

When I was sufficiently recovered to attend to business, Mongo John desired me to resume my
position in his employment. I heard, however, from Esther, that during my illness, Unga-golah
used her opportunities so profitably in the warehouse, that there would be sad deficiencies,
which, doubtless, might be thrown on me, if the crone were badly disposed at any future period.
Accordingly, I thought it decidedly most prudent to decline the clerkship, and requested the
Mongo to recompense me for the time and attention I had already bestowed on him. This was refused
by the indolent voluptuary; so we parted with coolness, and I was once more adrift in the world.

In these great outlying colonies and lodgments of European nations in the East Indies and Africa,
a stranger is commonly welcome to the hospitality of every foreigner. I had no hesitation,
therefore, in returning to the house of Joseph, who, like myself, had been a clerk of Ormond,
and suffered from the pilferings of the matron.

My host, I understood, was a native of London, where he was born of continental parents, and
came to Sierra Leone with Governor Turner. Upon the death or return of that officer,--I do
not recollect which,--the young adventurer remained in the colony, and, for a time, enjoyed
the post of harbor master. His first visit to the Rio Pongo was in the capacity of supercargo
of a small coasting craft, laden with valuable merchandise. Joseph succeeded in disposing of
his wares, but was not equally fortunate in collecting their avails. It was, perhaps, an ill-judged
act of the supercargo, but he declined to face his creditors with a deficient balance-sheet;
and quitting Sierra Leone for ever, accepted service with Ormond. For a year he continued in
this employment; but, at the end of that period, considering himself sufficiently informed
of the trade and language of the river, he sent a message to his creditors at the British settlement
that he could promptly pay them in full, if they would advance him capital enough to commence
an independent trade. The terms were accepted by an opulent Israelite, and in a short time
Edward Joseph was numbered among the successful factors of Rio Pongo.

As I had nothing to do but get well and talk, I employed my entire leisure in acquiring the
native language perfectly. The Soosoo is a dialect of the Mandingo. Its words, ending almost
universally in vowels, render it as glibly soft and musical as Italian; so that, in a short
time, I spoke it as fluently as my native tongue.

CHAPTER XI.

The 15th of March, 1827, was an epoch in my life. I remember it well, because it became the
turning point of my destiny. A few weeks more of indolence might have forced me back to Europe
or America, but the fortune of that day decided my residence and dealings in Africa.

At dawn of the 15th, a vessel was descried in the offing, and, as she approached the coast,
the initiated soon ascertained her to be a Spanish slaver. But, what was the amazement of the
river grandees when the captain landed and consigned his vessel to me!

"LA FORTUNA," the property, chiefly, of my old friend the Regla grocer, was successor of the
Areostatico, which she exceeded in size as well as comfort. Her captain was charged to pay
me my wages in full for the round voyage in the craft I had abandoned, and handed me, besides,
a purse of thirty doubloons as a testimonial from his owners for my defence of their property
on the dreadful night of our arrival. The "Fortuna" was dispatched to me for an "assorted cargo
of slaves," while 200,000 cigars and 500 ounces of Mexican gold, were on board for their purchase.
My commission was fixed at ten per cent., and I was promised a command whenever I saw fit to
abandon my residence on the African coast.

Having no factory, or barracoon of slaves, and being elevated to the dignity of "a trader"
in so sudden a manner, I thought it best to summon all the factors of the river on board the
schooner, with an offer to divide the cargo, provided they would pledge the production of the
slaves within thirty days. Dispatch was all-important to the owners, and, so anxious was I
to gratify them, that I consented to pay fifty dollars for every slave that should be accepted.

After some discussion my offer was taken, and the cargo apportioned among the residents. They
declined, however, receiving any share of the cigars in payment, insisting on liquidation in
gold alone.

As this was my first enterprise, I felt at a loss to know how to convert my useless tobacco
into merchantable doubloons. In this strait, I had recourse to the Englishman Joseph, who hitherto
traded exclusively in produce; but, being unable to withstand the temptation of gold, had consented
to furnish a portion of my required negroes. As soon as I stated the difficulty to Don Edward,
he proposed to send the Havanas to his Hebrew friend in Sierra Leone, where, he did not doubt,
they would be readily exchanged for Manchester merchandise. That evening a canoe was dispatched
to the English colony with the cigars; and, on the tenth day after, the trusty Israelite appeared
in the Rio Pongo, with a cutter laden to the deck with superior British fabrics. The rumor
of five hundred doubloons disturbed his rest in Sierra Leone! So much gold could not linger
in the hands of natives as long as Manchester and Birmingham were represented in the colony;
and, accordingly, he coasted the edge of the surf, as rapidly as possible, to pay me a profit
of four dollars a thousand for the cigars, and to take his chances at the exchange of my gold
for the sable cargo! By this happy hit I was enabled to pay for the required balance of negroes,
as well as to liquidate the schooners expenses while in the river. I was amazingly rejoiced
and proud at this happy result, because I learned from the captain that the invoice of cigars
was a malicious trick, palmed off on the Areostatico's owners by her captain, in order to thwart
or embarrass me, when he heard I was to be intrusted with the purchase of a cargo on the coast.

At the appointed day, La Fortuna sailed with 220 human beings packed in her hold. Three months
afterwards, I received advices that she safely landed 217 in the bay of Matanzas, and that
their sale yielded a clear profit on the voyage of forty-one thousand four hundred and thirty-eight
dollars.[B]

As I am now fairly embarked in a trade which absorbed so many of my most vigorous years, I
suppose the reader will not be loth to learn a little of my experience in the alleged "cruelties"
of this commerce; and the first question, in all likelihood, that rises to his lips, is a solicitation
to be apprised of the embarkation and treatment of slaves on the dreaded voyage. Two days before
embarkation, the head of every male and female is neatly shaved; and, if the cargo belongs
to several owners, each man's brand is impressed on the body of his respective negro. This
operation is performed with pieces of silver wire, or small irons fashioned into the merchant's
initials, heated just hot enough to blister without burning the skin. When the entire cargo
is the venture of but one proprietor, the branding is always dispensed with.

On the appointed day, the barracoon or slave-pen is made joyous by the abundant "feed" which
signalizes the negro's last hours in his native country. The feast over, they are taken alongside
the vessel in canoes; and as they touch the deck, they are entirely stripped, so that women
as well as men go out of Africa as they came into it--naked. This precaution, it will be understood,
is indispensable; for perfect nudity, during the whole voyage, is the only means of securing
cleanliness and health. In this state, they are immediately ordered below, the men to the hold
and the women to the cabin, while boys and girls are, day and night, kept on deck, where their
sole protection from the elements is a sail in fair weather, and a tarpaulin in foul.

At meal time they are distributed in messes of ten. Thirty years ago, when the Spanish slave-trade
was lawful, the captains were somewhat more ceremoniously religious than at present, and it
was then a universal habit to make the gangs say grace before meat, and give thanks afterwards.
In our days, however, they dispense with this ritual, and content themselves with a "Viva la
Habana," or "hurrah for Havana," accompanied by a clapping of hands.

This over, a bucket of salt water is served to each mess, by way of "finger glasses" for the
ablution of hands, after which a kidd,--either of rice, farina, yams, or beans,--according
to the tribal habit of the negroes, is placed before the squad. In order to prevent greediness
or inequality in the appropriation of nourishment, the process is performed by signals from
a monitor, whose motions indicate when the darkies shall dip and when they shall swallow.

It is the duty of a guard to report immediately whenever a slave refuses to eat, in order that
his abstinence may be traced to stubbornness or disease. Negroes have sometimes been found
in slavers who attempted voluntary starvation; so that, when the watch reports the patient
to be "shamming," his appetite is stimulated by the medical antidote of a "cat." If the slave,
however, is truly ill, he is forthwith ticketed for the sick list by a bead or button around
his neck, and dispatched to an infirmary in the forecastle.

These meals occur twice daily,--at ten in the morning and four in the afternoon,--and are terminated
by another ablution. Thrice in each twenty-four hours they are served with half a pint of water.
Pipes and tobacco are circulated economically among both sexes; but, as each negro cannot be
allowed the luxury of a separate bowl, boys are sent round with an adequate supply, allowing
a few whiffs to each individual. On regular days,--probably three times a week,--their mouths
are carefully rinsed with vinegar, while, nearly every morning, a dram is given as an antidote
to scurvy.

Although it is found necessary to keep the sexes apart, they are allowed to converse freely
during day while on deck. Corporal punishment is never inflicted save by order of an officer,
and, even then, not until the culprit understands exactly why it is done. Once a week, the
ship's barber scrapes their chins without assistance from soap; and, on the same day, their
nails are closely pared, to insure security from harm in those nightly battles that occur,
when the slave contests with his neighbor every inch of plank to which he is glued. During
afternoons of serene weather, men, women, girls, and boys are allowed to unite in African melodies,
which they always enhance by an extemporaneous tom-tom on the bottom of a tub or tin kettle.

These hints will apprise the reader that the greatest care, compatible with safety, is taken
of a negro's health and cleanliness on the voyage. In every well-conducted slaver, the captain,
officers, and crew, are alert and vigilant to preserve the cargo. It is their personal interest,
as well as the interest of humanity to do so. The boatswain is incessant in his patrol of purification,
and disinfecting substances are plenteously distributed. The upper deck is washed and swabbed
daily; the slave deck is scraped and holy-stoned; and, at nine o'clock each morning, the captain
inspects every part of his craft; so that no vessel, except a man-of-war, can compare with
a slaver in systematic order, purity, and neatness. I am not aware that the ship-fever, which
sometimes decimates the emigrants from Europe, has ever prevailed in these African traders.

At sundown, the process of stowing the slaves for the night is begun. The second mate and boatswain
descend into the hold, whip in hand, and range the slaves in their regular places; those on
the right side of the vessel facing forward, and lying in each other's lap, while those on
the left are similarly stowed with their faces towards the stern. In this way each negro lies
on his right side, which is considered preferable for the action of the heart. In allotting
places, particular attention is paid to size, the taller being selected for the greatest breadth
of the vessel, while the shorter and younger are lodged near the bows. When the cargo is large
and the lower deck crammed, the supernumeraries are disposed of on deck, which is securely
covered with boards to shield them from moisture. The strict discipline of nightly stowage
is, of course, of the greatest importance in slavers, else every negro would accommodate himself
as if he were a passenger.

In order to insure perfect silence and regularity during night, a slave is chosen as constable
from every ten, and furnished with a "cat" to enforce commands during his appointed watch.
In remuneration for his services, which, it may be believed, are admirably performed whenever
the whip is required, he is adorned with an old shirt or tarry trowsers. Now and then, billets
of wood are distributed among the sleepers, but this luxury is never granted until the good
temper of the negroes is ascertained, for slaves have often been tempted to mutiny by the power
of arming themselves with these pillows from the forest.

It is very probable that many of my readers will consider it barbarous to make slaves lie down
naked upon a board, but let me inform them that native Africans are not familiar with the use
of feather-beds, nor do any but the free and rich in their mother country indulge in the luxury
even of a mat or raw-hide. Among the Mandingo chiefs,--the most industrious and civilized of
Africans,--the beds, divans, and sofas, are heaps of mud, covered with untanned skins for cushions,
while logs of wood serve for bolsters! I am of opinion, therefore, that emigrant slaves experience
very slight inconvenience in lying down on the deck.

But ventilation is carefully attended to. The hatches and bulkheads of every slaver are grated,
and apertures are cut about the deck for ampler circulation of air. Wind-sails, too, are constantly
pouring a steady draft into the hold, except during a chase, when, of course, every comfort
is temporarily sacrificed for safety. During calms or in light and baffling winds, when the
suffocating air of the tropics makes ventilation impossible, the gratings are always removed,
and portions of the slaves allowed to repose at night on deck, while the crew is armed to watch
the sleepers.

Handcuffs are rarely used on shipboard. It is the common custom to secure slaves in the barracoons,
and while shipping, by chaining ten in a gang; but as these platoons would be extremely inconvenient
at sea, the manacles are immediately taken off and replaced by leg-irons, which fasten them
in pairs by the feet. Shackles are never used but for full-grown men, while women and boys
are set at liberty as soon as they embark. It frequently happens that when the behavior of
male slaves warrants their freedom, they are released from all fastenings long before they
arrive. Irons are altogether dispensed with on many Brazilian slavers, as negroes from Anjuda,
Benin, and Angola, are mild; and unaddicted to revolt like those who dwell east of the Cape
or north of the Gold Coast. Indeed, a knowing trader will never use chains but when compelled,
for the longer a slave is ironed the more he deteriorates; and, as his sole object is to land
a healthy cargo, pecuniary interest, as well as natural feeling, urges the sparing of metal.

My object in writing this palliative description is not to exculpate the slavers or their commerce,
but to correct those exaggerated stories which have so long been current in regard to the usual
voyage of a trader. I have always believed that the cause of humanity, as well as any other
cause, was least served by over-statement; and I am sure that if the narratives given by Englishmen
are true, the voyages they detail must either have occurred before my day, or were conducted
in British vessels, while her majesty's subjects still considered the traffic lawful.[C]

FOOTNOTES:

[B] As the reader may scarcely credit so large a profit, I subjoin an account of the fitting
of a slave vessel from Havana in 1827, and the liquidation of her voyage in Cuba:--

1.--EXPENSES OUT.

  Cost of LA FORTUNA, a 90 ton schooner,               $3,700 00
  Fitting out, sails, carpenter and cooper's bills,     2,500 00
  Provisions for crew and slaves,                       1,115 00
  Wages advanced to 18 men before the mast,               900 00
    "      "     to captain, mates, boatswain,
                   cook, and steward,                     440 00
  200,000 cigars and 500 doubloons, cargo,             10,900 00
  Clearance and hush-money,                               200 00
                                                     -----------
                                                      $19,755 00
  Commission at 5 per cent.,                              987 00
                                                     -----------
  Full cost of voyage out,                            $20,742 00

2.--EXPENSES HOME.

  Captain's head-money, at $8 a head,                   1,746 00
  Mate's        "          $4   "                         873 00
  Second mate and boatswain's head-money,
      at $2 each a head,                                  873 00
  Captain's wages,                                        219 78
  First mate's wages                                      175 56
  Second mate and boatswain's wages,                      307 12
  Cook and steward's wages,                               264 00
  Eighteen sailors' wages,                              1,972 00
                                                     -----------
                                                      $27,172 46

3.--EXPENSES IN HAVANA.

  Government officers, at $8 per head,                  1,736 00
  My commission on 217 slaves, expenses off,            5,565 00
  Consignees' commissions,                              8,878 00
  217 slave dresses, at $2 each,                          634 00
  Extra expenses of all kinds, say,                     1,000 00
                                                     -----------
  Total expenses,                                     $39,980 46

4.--RETURNS.

  Value of vessel at auction,                          $3,950 00
  Proceeds of 217 slaves,                              77,469 00
                                                     -----------
                                                      $81,419 00
                                                     -----------

RESUMÉ.

  Total Returns,                                      $81,419 00
    "   Expenses,                                      39,980 46
                                                     -----------
  Nett profit,                                        $41,438 54
                                                     -----------

[C] The treaty with Spain, which was designed by Great Britain to end the slave-trade, failed
utterly to produce the desired result.

All profitable trade,--illicit, contraband, or what not,--will be carried on by avaricious
men, as long as the temptation continues. Accordingly, whenever a trade becomes forced, the
only and sure result of violent restriction is to imperil still more both life and cargo.

1st.--The treaty with Spain, it is said, was enforced some time before it was properly promulgated
or notified; so that British cruisers seized over eighty vessels, one third of which certainly
were not designed for slave-trade.

2d.--As the compact condemned slave vessels to be broken up, the sailing qualities of craft
were improved to facilitate escape, rather than insure human comfort.

3d.--The Spanish slavers had recourse to Brazilians and Portuguese to cover their property;
and, as slavers could not be fitted out in Cuba, other nations sent their vessels ready equipped
to Africa, and (under the jib-booms of cruisers) Sardinians, Frenchmen and Americans, transferred
them to slave traders, while the captains and parts of the crew took passage home in regular
merchantmen.

4th.--As the treaty created greater risk, every method of economy was resorted to; and the
crowding and cramming of slaves was one of the most prominent results. Water and provisions
were diminished; and every thing was sacrificed for gain.

CHAPTER XII.

In old times, before treaties made slave-trade piracy, the landing of human cargoes was as
comfortably conducted as the disembarkation of flour. But now, the enterprise is effected with
secrecy and hazard. A wild, uninhabited portion of the coast, where some little bay or sheltering
nook exists, is commonly selected by the captain and his confederates. As soon as the vessel
is driven close to the beach and anchored, her boats are packed with slaves, while the craft
is quickly dismantled to avoid detection from sea or land. The busy skiffs are hurried to and
fro incessantly till the cargo is entirely ashore, when the secured gang, led by the captain,
and escorted by armed sailors, is rapidly marched to the nearest plantation. There it is safe
from the rapacity of local magistrates, who, if they have a chance, imitate their superiors
by exacting "gratifications."

In the mean time, a courier has been dispatched to the owners in Havana, Matanzas, or Santiago
de Cuba, who immediately post to the plantation with clothes for the slaves and gold for the
crew. Preparations are quickly made through brokers for the sale of the blacks; while the vessel,
if small, is disguised, to warrant her return under the coasting flag to a port of clearance.
If the craft happens to be large, it is considered perilous to attempt a return with a cargo,
or "in distress," and, accordingly, she is either sunk or burnt where she lies.

When the genuine African reaches a plantation for the first time, he fancies himself in paradise.
He is amazed by the generosity with which he is fed with fruit and fresh provisions. His new
clothes, red cap, and roasting blanket (a civilized superfluity he never dreamed of), strike
him dumb with delight, and, in his savage joy, he not only forgets country, relations, and
friends, but skips about like a monkey, while he dons his garments wrongside out or hind-part
before! The arrival of a carriage or cart creates no little confusion among the Ethiopian groups,
who never imagined that beasts could be made to work. But the climax of wonder is reached when
that paragon of oddities, a Cuban postilion, dressed in his sky-blue coat, silver-laced hat,
white breeches, polished jack-boots, and ringing spurs, leaps from his prancing quadruped,
and bids them welcome in their mother-tongue. Every African rushes to "snap fingers" with his
equestrian brother, who, according to orders, forthwith preaches an edifying sermon on the
happiness of being a white man's slave, taking care to jingle his spurs and crack his whip
at the end of every sentence, by way of amen.

Whenever a cargo is owned by several proprietors, each one takes his share at once to his plantation;
but if it is the property of speculators, the blacks are sold to any one who requires them
before removal from the original depot. The sale is, of course, conducted as rapidly as possible,
to forestall the interference of British officials with the Captain-General.

Many of the Spanish Governors in Cuba have respected treaties, or, at least, promised to enforce
the laws. Squadrons of dragoons and troops of lancers have been paraded with convenient delay,
and ordered to gallop to plantations designated by the representative of England. It generally
happens, however, that when the hunters arrive the game is gone. Scandal declares that, while
brokers are selling the blacks at the depot, it is not unusual for their owner or his agent
to be found knocking at the door of the Captain-General's secretary. It is often said that
the Captain-General himself is sometimes present in the sanctuary, and, after a familiar chat
about the happy landing of "the contraband,"--as the traffic is amiably called, the requisite
rouleaux are insinuated into the official desk under the intense smoke of a fragrant cigarillo.
The metal is always considered the property of the Captain-General, but his scribe avails himself
of a lingering farewell at the door, to hint an immediate and pressing need for "a very small
darkey!" Next day, the diminutive African does not appear; but, as it is believed that Spanish
officials prefer gold even to mortal flesh, his algebraic equivalent is unquestionably furnished
in the shape of shining ounces!

       *       *       *       *       *

The prompt dispatch I gave the schooner Fortuna, started new ideas among the traders of the
Rio Pongo, so that it was generally agreed my method of dividing the cargo among different
factors was not only most advantageous for speed, but prevented monopoly, and gave all an equal
chance. At a "grand palaver" or assemblage of the traders on the river, it was resolved that
this should be the course of trade for the future. All the factors, except Ormond, attended
and assented; but we learned that the Mongo's people, with difficulty prevented him from sending
an armed party to break up our deliberations.

The knowledge of this hostile feeling soon spread throughout the settlement and adjacent towns,
creating considerable excitement against Ormond. My plan and principles were approved by the
natives as well as foreigners, so that warning was sent the Mongo, if any harm befell Joseph
and Theodore, it would be promptly resented. Our native landlord, Ali-Ninpha, a Foulah by descent,
told him boldly, in presence of his people, that the Africans were "tired of a mulatto Mongo;"
and, from that day, his power dwindled away visibly, though a show of respect was kept up in
consequence of his age and ancient importance.

During these troubles, the Areostatico returned to my consignment, and in twenty-two days was
dispatched with a choice cargo of Mandingoes,--a tribe, which had become fashionable for house
servants among the Havanese. But the luckless vessel was never heard of, and it is likely she
went down in some of the dreadful gales that scourged the coast immediately after her departure.

CHAPTER XIII.

I had now grown to such sudden importance among the natives, that the neighboring chiefs and
kings sent me daily messages of friendship, with trifling gifts that I readily accepted. One
of these bordering lords, more generous and insinuating than the rest, hinted several times
his anxiety for a closer connection in affection as well as trade, and, at length, insisted
upon becoming my father-in-law!

I had always heard in Italy that it was something to receive the hand of a princess, even after
long and tedious wooing; but now that I was surrounded by a mob of kings, who absolutely thrust
their daughters on me, I confess I had the bad taste not to leap with joy at the royal offering.
Still, I was in a difficult position, as no graver offence can be given a chief than to reject
his child. It is so serious an insult to refuse a wife, that, high born natives, in order to
avoid quarrels or war, accept the tender boon, and as soon as etiquette permits, pass it over
to a friend or relation. As the offer was made to me personally by the king, I found the utmost
difficulty in escaping. Indeed, he would receive no excuse. When I declined on account of the
damsel's youth, he laughed incredulously. If I urged the feebleness of my health and tardy
convalescence, he insisted that a regular life of matrimony was the best cordial for an impaired
constitution. In fact, the paternal solicitude of his majesty for my doubloons was so urgent
that I was on the point of yielding myself a patient sacrifice, when Joseph came to my relief
with the offer of his hand as a substitute.

The Gordian knot was cut. Prince Yungee in reality did not care so much who should be his son-in-law
as that he obtained one with a white skin and plentiful purse. Joseph or Theodore, Saxon or
Italian, made no difference to the chief; and, as is the case in all Oriental lands, the opinion
of the lady was of no importance whatever.

I cannot say that my partner viewed this matrimonial project with the disgust that I did. Perhaps
he was a man of more liberal philosophy and wider views of human brotherhood; at any rate,
his residence in Africa gave him a taste not only for its people, habits, and superstitions,
but he upheld practical amalgamation with more fervor and honesty than a regular abolitionist.
Joseph was possessed by Africo-mania. He admired the women, the men, the language, the cookery,
the music. He would fall into philharmonic ecstasies over the discord of a bamboo tom-tom.
I have reason to believe that even African barbarities had charms for the odd Englishman; but
he was chiefly won by the dolce far niente of the natives, and the Oriental license of polygamy.
In a word, Joseph had the same taste for a full-blooded cuffee, that an epicure has for the
haut gout of a stale partridge, and was in ecstasies at my extrication. He neglected his siestas
and his accounts; he wandered from house to house with the rapture of an impatient bridegroom;
and, till every thing was ready for the nuptial rites, no one at the factory had a moment's rest.

As the bride's relations were eminent folks on the upper part of the river, they insisted that
the marriage ceremony should be performed with all the honorable formalities due to the lady's
rank. Esther, who acted as my mentor in every "country-question," suggested that it would be
contrary to the Englishman's interest to ally himself with a family whose only motive was sordid.
She strongly urged that if he persisted in taking the girl, he should do so without a "colungee"
or ceremonial feast. But Joseph was obstinate as a bull; and as he doubted whether he would
ever commit matrimony again, he insisted that the nuptials should be celebrated with all the
fashionable splendor of high life in Africa.

When this was decided, it became necessary, by a fiction of etiquette, to ignore the previous
offer of the bride, and to begin anew, as if the damsel were to be sought in the most delicate
way by a desponding lover. She must be demanded formally, by the bridegroom from her reluctant
mother; and accordingly, the most respectable matron in our colony was chosen by Joseph from
his colored acquaintances to be the bearer of his valentine. In the present instance, the selected
Cupid was the principal wife of our native landlord, Ali-Ninpha; and, as Africans as well as
Turks love by the pound, the dame happened to be one of the fattest, as well as most respectable,
in our parish. Several female attachés were added to the suite of the ambassadress, who forthwith
departed to make a proper "dantica." The gifts selected were of four kinds. First of all, two
demijohns of trade-rum were filled to gladden the community of Mongo-Yungee's town. Next, a
piece of blue cotton cloth, a musket, a keg of powder, and a demijohn of pure rum, were packed
for papa. Thirdly, a youthful virgin dressed in a white "tontongee,"[2] a piece of white cotton
cloth, a white basin, a white sheep, and a basket of white rice, were put up for mamma, in
token of her daughter's purity. And, lastly, a German looking-glass, several bunches of beads,
a coral necklace, a dozen of turkey-red handkerchiefs, and a spotless white country-cloth,
were presented to the bride; together with a decanter of white palm-oil for the anointment
of her ebony limbs after the bath, which is never neglected by African belles.

While the missionary of love was absent, our sighing swain devoted his energies to the erection
of a bridal palace; and the task required just as many days as were employed in the creation
of the world. The building was finished by the aid of bamboos, straw, and a modicum of mud;
and, as Joseph imagined that love and coolness were secured in such a climate by utter darkness,
he provided an abundance of that commodity by omitting windows entirely. The furnishing of
the domicil was completed with all the luxury of native taste. An elastic four-poster was constructed
of bamboos; some dashing crockery was set about the apartment for display; a cotton quilt was
cast over the matted couch; an old trunk served for bureau and wardrobe; and, as negresses
adore looking-glasses, the largest in our warehouse was nailed against the door, as the only
illuminated part of the edifice.

At last all was complete, and Joseph snapped his fingers with delight, when the corpulent dame
waddled up asthmatically, and announced with a wheeze that her mission was prosperous. If there
had ever been doubt, there was now no more. The oracular "fetiche" had announced that the delivery
of the bride to her lord might take place "on the tenth day of the new moon."

As the planet waxed from its slender sickle to the thicker quarter, the impatience of my Cockney
waxed with it; but, at length, the firing of muskets, the twang of horns, and the rattle of
tom-toms, gave notice from the river that COOMBA, the bride, was approaching the quay. Joseph
and myself hastily donned our clean shirts, white trousers, and glistening pumps; and, under
the shade of broad sombreros and umbrellas, proceeded to greet the damsel. Our fat friend,
the matron; Ali-Ninpha, her husband; our servants, and a troop of village ragamuffins, accompanied
us to the water's brink, so that we were just in time to receive the five large canoes bearing
the escort of the king and his daughter. Boat after boat disgorged its passengers; but, to
our dismay, they ranged themselves apart, and were evidently displeased. When the last canoe,
decorated with flags, containing the bridal party, approached the strand, the chief of the
escort signalled it to stop and forbade the landing.

In a moment there was a general row--a row, conceivable only by residents of Africa, or those
whose ears have been regaled with the chattering of a "wilderness of monkeys." Our lusty factotum
was astonished. The Cockney aspirated his h's with uncommon volubility. We hastened from one
to the other to inquire the cause; nor was it until near half an hour had been wasted in palaver,
that I found they considered themselves slighted, first of all because we had not fired a salvo
in their honor, and secondly because we failed to spread mats from the beach to the house,
upon which the bride might place her virgin feet without defilement! These were indispensable
formalities among the "upper ten;" and the result was that COOMBA could not land unless the
etiquette were fulfilled.

Here, then, was a sad dilemma. The guns could be fired instantly;--but where, alas! at a moment's
notice, were we to obtain mats enough to carpet the five hundred yards of transit from the
river to the house? The match must be broken off!

My crest-fallen cockney immediately began to exculpate himself by pleading ignorance of the
country's customs,--assuring the strangers that he had not the slightest inkling of the requirement.
Still, the stubborn "master of ceremonies" would not relax an iota of his rigorous behests.

At length, our bulky dame approached the master of the bridal party, and, squatting on her
knees, confessed her neglectful fault. Then, for the first time, I saw a gleam of hope. Joseph
improved the moment by alleging that he employed this lady patroness to conduct every thing
in the sublimest style imaginable, because it was presumed no one knew better than she all
that was requisite for so admirable and virtuous a lady as COOMBA. Inasmuch, however, as he
had been disappointed by her unhappy error, he did not think the blow should fall on his shoulders.
The negligent matron ought to pay the penalty; and, as it was impossible now to procure the
mats, she should forfeit the value of a slave to aid the merry-making, and carry the bride
on her back from the river to her home!

A clapping of hands and a quick murmur of assent ran through the crowd, telling me that the
compromise was accepted. But the porterage was no sinecure for the delinquent elephant, who
found it difficult at times to get along over African sands even without a burden. Still, no
time was lost in further parley or remonstrance. The muskets and cannon were brought down and
exploded; the royal boat was brought to the landing; father, mother, brothers, and relations
were paraded on the strand; tom-toms and horns were beaten and blown; and, at last, the suffering
missionary waddled to the canoe to receive the veiled form of the slender bride.

The process of removal was accompanied by much merriment. Our corpulent porter groaned as she
"larded the lean earth" beneath her ponderous tread; but, in due course of labor and patience,
she sank with her charge on the bamboo couch of Master Joseph.

As soon as the bearer and the burden were relieved from their fatigue, the maiden was brought
to the door, and, as her long concealing veil of spotless cotton was unwrapped from head and
limbs, a shout of admiration went up from the native crowd that followed us from the quay to
the hovel. As Joseph received the hand of COOMBA, he paid the princely fee of a slave to the
matron.

COOMBA had certainly not numbered more than sixteen years, yet, in that burning region, the
sex ripen long before their pallid sisters of the North. She belonged to the Soosoo tribe,
but was descended from Mandingo ancestors, and I was particularly struck by the uncommon symmetry
of her tapering limbs. Her features and head, though decidedly African, were not of that coarse
and heavy cast that marks the lineaments of her race. The grain of her shining skin was as
fine and polished as ebony. A melancholy languor subdued and deepened the blackness of her
large eyes, while her small and even teeth gleamed with the brilliant purity of snow. Her mouth
was rosy and even delicate; and, indeed, had not her ankles, feet, and wool, manifested the
unfortunate types of her kindred, COOMBA, the daughter of Mongo-Yungee, might have passed for
a chef d'oeuvre in black marble.

The scant dress of the damsel enabled me to be so minute in this catalogue of her charms; and,
in truth, had I not inspected them closely, I would have violated matrimonial etiquette as
much as if I failed to admire the trousseau and gifts of a bride at home. Coomba's costume
was as innocently primitive as Eve's after the expulsion. Like all maidens of her country,
she had beads round her ankles, beads round her waist, beads round her neck, while an abundance
of bracelets hooped her arms from wrist to elbow. The white tontongee still girdled her loins;
but Coomba's climate was her mantuamaker, and indicated more necessity for ornament than drapery.
Accordingly, Coomba was obedient to Nature, and troubled herself very little about a supply
of useless garments, to load the presses and vex the purse of her bridegroom.

As soon as the process of unveiling was over, and time had been allowed the spectators to behold
the damsel, her mother led her gently to the fat ambassadress, who, with her companions, bore
the girl to a bath for ablution, anointment, and perfuming. While Coomba underwent this ceremony
at the hands of our matron, flocks of sable dames entered the apartment; and, as they withdrew,
shook hands with her mother, in token of the maiden's purity, and with the groom in compliment
to his luck.

As soon as the bath and oiling were over, six girls issued from the hut, bearing the glistening
bride on a snow-white sheet to the home of her spouse. The transfer was soon completed, and
the burden deposited on the nuptial bed. The dwelling was then closed and put in charge of
sentinels; when the plump plenipotentiary approached the Anglo-Saxon, and handing him the scant
fragments of the bridal dress, pointed to the door, and, in a loud voice, exclaimed: "White
man, this authorizes you to take possession of your wife!"

It may naturally be supposed that our radiant cockney was somewhat embarrassed by so public
a display of matrimonial happiness, at six o'clock in the afternoon, on the thirtieth day of
a sweltering June. Joseph could not help looking at me with a blush and a laugh, as he saw
the eyes of the whole crowd fixed on his movements; but, nerving himself like a man, he made
a profound salaam to the admiring multitude, and shaking my hand with a convulsive grip, plunged
into the darkness of his abode. A long pole was forthwith planted before the door, and a slender
strip of white cotton, about the size of a "tontongee," was hoisted in token of privacy, and
floated from the staff like a pennant, giving notice that the commodore is aboard.

No sooner were these rites over, than the house was surrounded by a swarm of women from the
adjacent villages, whose incessant songs, screams, chatter, and tom-tom beatings, drowned every
mortal sound. Meanwhile, the men of the party--whose merriment around an enormous bonfire was
augmented by abundance of liquor and provisions--amused themselves in dancing, shouting, yelling,
and discharging muskets in honor of the nuptials.

Such was the ceaseless serenade that drove peace from the lovers' pillow during the whole of
that memorable night. At dawn, the corpulent matron again appeared from among the wild and
reeling crowd, and concluding her functions by some mysterious ceremonies, led forth the lank
groom from the dark cavity of his hot and sleepless oven, looking more like a bewildered wretch
rescued from drowning, than a radiant lover fresh from his charmer. In due time, the bride
also was brought forth by the matrons for the bath, where she was anointed from head to foot
with a vegetable butter,--whose odor is probably more agreeable to Africans than Americans,--and
fed with a bowl of broth made from a young and tender pullet.

The marriage fêtes lasted three days, after which I insisted that Joseph should give up nonsense
for business, and sobered his ecstasies by handing him a wedding-bill for five hundred and
fifty dollars.

There is hardly a doubt that he considered COOMBA very dear, if not absolutely adorable!

FOOTNOTE:

[2] A tontongee is a strip of white cotton cloth, three inches wide and four feet long, used
as a virgin African's only dress. It is wound round the limbs, and, hanging partly in front
and partly behind, is supported from the maiden's waist by strands of showee-beads.

CHAPTER XIV.

I am sorry to say that my colleague's honeymoon did not last long, although it was not interrupted
by domestic discord. One of his malicious Sierra Leone creditors, who had not been dealt with
quite as liberally as the rest, called on the colonial governor of that British establishment,
and alleged that a certain Edward Joseph, an Englishman, owned a factory on the Rio Pongo,
in company with a Spaniard, and was engaged in the slave-trade!

At this the British lion, of course, growled in his African cage, and bestirred himself to
punish the recreant cub. An expedition was forthwith fitted out to descend upon our little
establishment; and, in all likelihood, the design would have been executed, had not our friendly
Israelite in Sierra Leone sent us timely warning. No sooner did the news arrive than Joseph
embarked in a slaver, and, packing up his valuables, together with sixty negroes, fled from
Africa. His disconsolate bride was left to return to her parents.

As the hostile visit from the British colony was hourly expected, I did not tarry long in putting
a new face on Kambia. Fresh books were made out in my name exclusively; their dates were carefully
suited to meet all inquiries; and the townspeople were prepared to answer impertinent questions;
so that, when Lieutenant Findlay, of Her Britannic Majesty's naval service, made his appearance
in the river, with three boats bearing the cross of St. George, no man in the settlement was
less anxious than Don Téodore, the Spaniard.

When the lieutenant handed me an order from the governor of Sierra Leone and its dependencies,
authorizing him to burn or destroy the property of Joseph, as well as to arrest that personage
himself, I regretted that I was unable to facilitate his patriotic projects, inasmuch as the
felon was afloat on salt water, while all his property had long before been conveyed to me
by a regular bill of sale. In proof of my assertions, I produced the instrument and the books;
and when I brought in our African landlord to sustain me in every particular, the worthy lieutenant
was forced to relinquish his hostility and accept an invitation to dinner. His conduct during
the whole investigation was that of a gentleman; which, I am sorry to say, was not always the
case with his professional countrymen.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the rainy season, which begins in June and lasts till October, the stores of provisions
in establishments along the Atlantic coast often become sadly impaired. The Foulah and Mandingo
tribes of the interior are prevented by the swollen condition of intervening streams from visiting
the beach with their produce. In these straits, the factories have recourse by canoes to the
smaller rivers, which are neither entered by sea-going vessels, nor blockaded for the caravans
of interior chiefs.

Among the tribes or clans visited by me in such seasons, I do not remember any whose intercourse
afforded more pleasure, or exhibited nobler traits, than the BAGERS, who dwell on the solitary
margins of these shallow rivulets, and subsist by boiling salt in the dry season and making
palm-oil in the wet. I have never read an account of these worthy blacks, whose civility, kindness,
and honesty will compare favorably with those of more civilized people.

The Bagers live very much apart from the great African tribes, and keep up their race by intermarriage.
The language is peculiar, and altogether devoid of that Italian softness that makes the Soosoo
so musical.

Having a week or two of perfect leisure, I determined to set out in a canoe to visit one of
these establishments, especially as no intelligence had reached me for some time from one of
my country traders who had been dispatched thither with an invoice of goods to purchase palm-oil.
My canoe was comfortably fitted with a waterproof awning, and provisioned for a week.

A tedious pull along the coast and through the dangerous surf, brought us to the narrow creek
through whose marshy mesh of mangroves we squeezed our canoe to the bank. Even after landing,
we waded a considerable distance through marsh before we reached the solid land. The Bager
town stood some hundred yards from the landing, at the end of a desolate savanna, whose lonely
waste spread as far as the eye could reach. The village itself seemed quite deserted, so that
I had difficulty in finding "the oldest inhabitant," who invariably stays at home and acts
the part of chieftain. This venerable personage welcomed me with great cordiality; and, having
made my dantica, or, in other words, declared the purpose of my visit, I desired to be shown
the trader's house. The patriarch led me at once to a hut, whose miserable thatch was supported
by four posts. Here I recognized a large chest, a rum cask, and the grass hammock of my agent.
I was rather exasperated to find my property thus neglected and exposed, and began venting
my wrath in no seemly terms on the delinquent clerk, when my conductor laid his hand gently
on my sleeve, and said there was no need to blame him. "This," continued he, "is his house;
here your property is sheltered from sun and rain; and, among the Bagers, whenever your goods
are protected from the elements, they are safe from every danger. Your man has gone across
the plain to a neighboring town for oil; to-night he will be back;--in the mean time, look
at your goods!"

I opened the chest, which, to my surprise, was unlocked, and found it nearly full of the merchandise
I had placed in it. I shook the cask, and its weight seemed hardly diminished. I turned the
spigot, and lo! the rum trickled on my feet. Hard-by was a temporary shed, filled to the roof
with hides and casks of palm-oil, all of which, the gray-beard declared was my property.

Whilst making this inspection, I have no doubt the expression of my face indicated a good deal
of wonder, for I saw the old man smile complacently as he followed me with his quiet eye.

"Good!" said the chief, "it is all there,--is it not? We Bagers are neither Soosoos, Mandingoes,
Foulahs, nor White-men, that the goods of a stranger are not safe in our towns! We work for
a living; we want little; big ships never come to us, and we neither steal from our guests
nor go to war to sell one another!"

The conversation, I thought, was becoming a little personal; and, with a gesture of impatience,
I put a stop to it. On second thoughts, however, I turned abruptly round, and shaking the noble
savage's hand with a vigor that made him wince, presented him with a piece of cloth. Had Diogenes
visited Africa in search of his man, it is by no means unlikely that he might have extinguished
his lamp among the Bagers!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about two o'clock in the afternoon when I arrived in the town, which, as I before observed,
seemed quite deserted, except by a dozen or two ebony antiquities, who crawled into the sunshine
when they learned the advent of a stranger. The young people were absent gathering palm nuts
in a neighboring grove. A couple of hours before sundown, my trader returned; and, shortly
after, the merry gang of villagers made their appearance, laughing, singing, dancing, and laden
with fruit. As soon as the gossips announced the arrival of a white man during their absence,
the little hut that had been hospitably assigned me was surrounded by a crowd, five or six
deep, of men, women, and children. The pressure was so close and sudden that I was almost stifled.
Finding they would not depart until I made myself visible, I emerged from concealment and shook
hands with nearly all. The women, in particular, insisted on gratifying themselves with a sumboo
or smell at my face,--which is the native's kiss,--and folded their long black arms in an embrace
of my neck, threatening peril to my shirt with their oiled and dusty flesh. However, I noticed
so much bonhommie among the happy crew that my heart would not allow me to repulse them; so
I kissed the youngest and shunned the crones. In token of my good will, I led a dozen or more
of the prettiest to the rum-barrel, and made them happy for the night.

When the townsfolks had comfortably nestled themselves in their hovels, the old chief, with
a show of some formality, presented me a heavy ram-goat, distinguished for its formidable head-ornaments,
which, he said, was offered as a bonne-bouche, for my supper. He then sent a crier through
the town, informing the women that a white stranger would be their guest during the night;
and, in less than half an hour, my hut was visited by most of the village dames and damsels.
One brought a pint of rice; another some roots of cassava; another, a few spoonfuls of palm-oil;
another a bunch of peppers; while the oldest lady of the party made herself particularly remarkable
by the gift of a splendid fowl. In fact, the crier had hardly gone his rounds, before my mat
was filled with the voluntary contributions of the villagers; and the wants, not only of myself
but of my eight rowers, completely supplied.

There was nothing peculiar in this exhibition of hospitality, on account of my nationality.
It was the mere fulfilment of a Bager law; and the poorest black stranger would have shared
the rite as well as myself. I could not help thinking that I might have travelled from one
end of England or America to the other, without meeting a Bager welcome. Indeed, it seemed
somewhat questionable, whether it were better for the English to civilize Africa, or for the
Bagers to send missionaries to their brethren in Britain!

These reflections, however, did not spoil my appetite, for I confess a feeling of unusual content
and relish when the patriarch sat down with me before the covered bowls prepared for our supper.
But, alas! for human hopes and tastes! As I lifted the lid from the vessel containing the steaming
stew, its powerful fragrance announced the remains of that venerable quadruped with which I
had been welcomed. It was probably not quite in etiquette among the Bagers to decline the stew,
yet, had starvation depended on it, I could not have touched a morsel. Accordingly, I forbore
the mess and made free with the rice, seasoning it well with salt and peppers. But my amiable
landlord was resolved that I should not go to rest with such penitential fare, and ordered
one of his wives to bring her supper to my lodge. A taste of the dish satisfied me that it
was edible, though intensely peppered. I ate with the appetite of an alderman, nor was it till
two days after that my trader informed me I had supped so heartily on the spareribs of an alligator!
It was well that the hours of digestion had gone by, for though partial to the chase, I had
never loved "water fowl" of so wild a character.

When supper was over, I escaped from the hut to breathe a little fresh air before retiring
for the night. Hardly had I put my head outside when I found myself literally inhaling the
mosquitoes that swarmed at nightfall over these marshy flats. I took it for granted that there
was to be no rest for me in darkness among the Bagers; but, when I mentioned my trouble to
the chief, he told me that another hut had already been provided for my sleeping quarters,
where my bed was made of certain green and odorous leaves which are antidotes to mosquitoes.
After a little more chat, he offered to guide me to the hovel, a low, thickly matted bower,
through whose single aperture I crawled on hands and knees. As soon as I was in, the entrance
was closed, and although I felt very much as if packed in my grave, I slept an unbroken sleep
till day-dawn.[D]

My return to the Rio Pongo was attended with considerable danger, yet I did not regret the
trial of my spirit, as it enabled me to see a phase of African character which otherwise might
have been missed.

After passing two days among the Bagers, I departed once more in my canoe, impelled by the
stout muscles of the Kroomen. The breeze freshened as we passed from the river's mouth across
the boiling surf of the bar, but, when we got fairly to sea, I found the Atlantic so vexed
by the rising gale, that, in spite of waterproof awning and diligent bailing, we were several
times near destruction. Still, I had great confidence in the native boatmen, whose skill in
their skiffs is quite as great as their dexterity when naked in the water. I had often witnessed
their agility as they escaped from capsized boats on the surf of our bar; and often had I rewarded
them with a dram, when they came, as from a frolic, dripping and laughing to the beach.

When night began to fall around us the storm increased, and I could detect, by the low chatter
and anxious looks of the rowers, that they were alarmed. As far as my eye reached landward,
I could descry nothing but a continuous reef on which the chafed sea was dashing furiously
in columns of the densest spray. Of course I felt that it was not my duty, nor would it be
prudent, to undertake the guidance of the canoe in such circumstances. Yet, I confess that
a shudder ran through my nerves when I saw my "head-man" suddenly change our course and steer
the skiff directly towards the rocks. On she bounded like a racer. The sea through which they
urged her foamed like a caldron with the rebounding surf. Nothing but wave-lashed rock was
before us. At last I could detect a narrow gap in the iron wall, which was filled with surges
in the heaviest swells. We approached it, and paused at the distance of fifty feet. A wave
had just burst through the chasm like a storming army. We waited for the succeeding lull. All
hands laid still,--not a word was spoken or paddle dipped. Then came the next enormous swell
under our stern;--the oars flew like lightning;--the canoe rose as a feather on the crest of
the surf;--in a moment she shot through the cleft and reposed in smooth water near the shore.
As we sped through the gap, I might have touched the rocks on both sides with my extended arms!

Such is the skill and daring of Kroomen.

FOOTNOTE:

[D] These Bagers are remarkable for their honesty, as I was convinced by several anecdotes
related, during my stay in this village, by my trading clerk. He took me to a neighboring lemon-tree,
and exhibited an English brass steelyard hanging on its branches, which had been left there
by a mulatto merchant from Sierra Leone, who died in the town on a trading trip. This article,
with a chest half full of goods, deposited in the "palaver-house," had been kept securely more
than twelve years in expectation that some of his friends would send for them from the colony.
The Bagers, I was told, have no jujus, fetiches, or gree-grees;--they worship no god or evil
spirit;--their dead are buried without tears or ceremony;--and their hereafter in eternal oblivion.

The males of this tribe are of middling size and deep black color; broad-shouldered, but neither
brave nor warlike. They keep aloof from other tribes, and by a Fullah law, are protected from
foreign violence in consequence of their occupation as salt-makers, which is regarded by the
interior natives as one of the most useful trades. Their fondness for palm-oil and the little
work they are compelled to perform, make them generally indolent. Their dress is a single handkerchief,
or a strip of country cloth four or five inches wide, most carefully put on.

The young women have none of the sylphlike appearance of the Mandingoes or Soosoos. They work
hard and use palm-oil plentifully both internally and externally, so that their relaxed flesh
is bloated like blubber. Both sexes shave their heads, and adorn their noses and lower lips
with rings, while they penetrate their ears with porcupine quills or sticks. They neither sell
nor buy each other, though they acquire children of both sexes from other tribes, and adopt
them into their own, or dispose of them if not suitable. Their avails of work are commonly
divided; so the Bagers may be said to resemble the Mormons in polygamy, the Fourierites in
community, but to exceed both in honesty!

I am sorry that their nobler characteristics have so few imitators among the other tribes of
Africa.

CHAPTER XV.

When the rains began to slacken, a petty caravan now and then straggled towards the coast;
but, as I was only a new comer in the region, and not possessed of abundant means, I enjoyed
a slender share of the trade. Still I consoled myself with the hope of better luck in the dry
season.

In the mean time, however, I not only heard of Joseph's safe arrival at Matanzas, but received
a clerk whom he dispatched to dwell in Kambia while I visited the interior. Moreover, I built
a boat, and sent her to Sierra Leone with a cargo of palm-oil, to be exchanged for British
goods; and, finally, during my perfect leisure, I went to work with diligence to study the
trade in which fortune seemed to have cast my lot.

It would be a task of many pages if I attempted to give a full account of the origin and causes
of slavery in Africa. As a national institution, it seems to have existed always. Africans
have been bondsmen every where: and the oldest monuments bear their images linked with menial
toils and absolute servitude. Still, I have no hesitation in saying, that three fourths of
the slaves sent abroad from Africa are the fruit of native wars, fomented by the avarice and
temptation of our own race. I cannot exculpate any commercial nation from this sweeping censure.
We stimulate the negro's passions by the introduction of wants and fancies never dreamed of
by the simple native, while slavery was an institution of domestic need and comfort alone.
But what was once a luxury has now ripened into an absolute necessity; so that MAN, in truth,
has become the coin of Africa, and the "legal tender" of a brutal trade.

England, to-day, with all her philanthropy, sends, under the cross of St. George, to convenient
magazines of lawful commerce on the coast, her Birmingham muskets, Manchester cottons, and
Liverpool lead, all of which are righteously swapped at Sierra Leone, Acra, and on the Gold
coast, for Spanish or Brazilian bills on London. Yet, what British merchant does not know the
traffic on which those bills are founded, and for whose support his wares are purchased? France,
with her bonnet rouge and fraternity, dispatches her Rouen cottons, Marseilles brandies, flimsy
taffetas, and indescribable variety of tinsel gewgaws. Philosophic Germany demands a slice
for her looking-glasses and beads; while multitudes of our own worthy traders, who would hang
a slaver as a pirate when caught, do not hesitate to supply him indirectly with tobacco, powder,
cotton, Yankee rum, and New England notions, in order to bait the trap in which he may be caught!
It is the temptation of these things, I repeat, that feeds the slave-making wars of Africa,
and forms the human basis of those admirable bills of exchange.

I did not intend to write a homily on Ethiopian commerce when I begun this chapter; but, on
reviewing the substantial motives of the traffic, I could not escape a statement which tells
its own tale, and is as unquestionable as the facts of verified history.

Such, then, may be said to be the predominating influence that supports the African slave-trade;
yet, if commerce of all kinds were forbidden with that continent, the customs and laws of the
natives would still encourage slavery as a domestic affair, though, of course, in a very modified
degree. The rancorous family quarrels among tribes and parts of tribes, will always promote
conflicts that resemble the forays of our feudal ancestors, while the captives made therein
will invariably become serfs.

Besides this, the financial genius of Africa, instead of devising bank notes or the precious
metals as a circulating medium, has from time immemorial, declared that a human creature,--the
true representative and embodiment of labor,--is the most valuable article on earth. A man,
therefore, becomes the standard of prices. A slave is a note of hand, that may be discounted
or pawned; he is a bill of exchange that carries himself to his destination and pays a debt
bodily; he is a tax that walks corporeally into the chieftain's treasury. Thus, slavery is
not likely to be surrendered by the negroes themselves as a national institution. Their social
interests will continue to maintain hereditary bondage; they will send the felon and the captive
to foreign barracoons; and they will sentence to domestic servitude the orphans of culprits,
disorderly children, gamblers, witches, vagrants, cripples, insolvents, the deaf, the mute,
the barren, and the faithless. Five-sixths of the population is in chains.[3]

To facilitate the sale of these various unfortunates or malefactors, there exists among the
Africans a numerous class of brokers, who are as skilful in their traffic as the jockeys of
civilized lands. These adroit scoundrels rove the country in search of objects to suit different
patrons. They supply the body-guard of princes; procure especial tribes for personal attendants;
furnish laborers for farms; fill the harems of debauchees; pay or collect debts in flesh; and
in cases of emergency take the place of bailiffs, to kidnap under the name of sequestration.
If a native king lacks cloth, arms, powder, balls, tobacco, rum, or salt, and does not trade
personally with the factories on the beach, he employs one of these dexterous gentry to effect
the barter; and thus both British cotton and Yankee rum ascend the rivers from the second hands
into which they have passed, while the slave approaches the coast to become the ebony basis
of a bill of exchange!

It has sometimes struck me as odd, how the extremes of society almost meet on similar principles;
and how much some African short-comings resemble the conceded civilizations of other lands!

FOOTNOTE:

[3] Dr. Lugenbeel's "Sketches of Liberia.": 1853. p. 45, 2d ed.

CHAPTER XVI.

The month of November, 1827, brought the wished-for "dry season;" and with it came a message
from the leader of a caravan, that, at the full of the moon, he would halt in my village with
all the produce he could impress. The runner represented his master as bearing a missive from
his beloved nephew Ahmah-de-Bellah, and declared that he only lingered on the path to swell
his caravan for the profit of my coffers.

I did not let the day pass before I sent an interpreter to greet my promised guest with suitable
presents; while I took advantage of his delay to build a neat cottage for his reception, inasmuch
as no Fullah Mahometan will abide beneath the same roof with an infidel. I furnished the establishment,
according to their taste, with green hides and several fresh mats.

True to his word, Mami-de-Yong made known his arrival in my neighborhood on the day when the
planet attained its full diameter. The moment the pious Mussulman, from the high hills in the
rear of my settlement, espied the river winding to the sea, he turned to the east, and raising
his arms to heaven, and extending them towards Mecca, gave thanks for his safe arrival on the
beach. After repeated genuflections, in which the earth was touched by his prostrate forehead,
he arose, and taking the path towards Kambia, struck up a loud chant in honor of the prophet,
in which he was joined by the interminable procession.

It was quite an imposing sight--this Oriental parade and barbaric pomp. My native landlord,
proud of the occasion, as well as of his Mahometan progenitors, joined in the display. As the
train approached my establishment, I ordered repeated salutes in honor of the stranger, and
as I had no minstrels or music to welcome the Fullah, I commanded my master of ceremonies to
conceal the deficiency by plenty of smoke and a dozen more rounds of rattling musketry.

This was the first caravan and the first leader of absolutely royal pretensions that visited
my settlement; so I lined my piazza with mats, put a body-guard under arms behind me, decorated
the front with fancy flags, and opposite the stool where I took my seat, caused a pure white
sheepskin of finest wool to be spread for the accommodation of the noble savage. Advancing
to the steps of my dwelling, I stood uncovered as the Fullah approached and tendered me a silver-mounted
gazelle-horn snuff-box--the credential by which Ahmah-de-Bellah had agreed to certify the mission.
Receiving the token with a salaam, I carried it reverently to my forehead, and passed it to
Ali-Ninpha, who, on this occasion, played the part of my scribe. The ceremony over, we took
him by the hands and led him to his allotted sheepskin, while, with a bow, I returned to my stool.

According to "country custom," Mami-de-Yong then began the dantica, or exposition of purposes,
first of all invoking ALLAH to witness his honor and sincerity. "Not only," said the Mussulman,
"am I the bearer of a greeting from my dear nephew Ahmah-de-Bellah, but I am an envoy from
my royal master the Ali-Mami, of Footha-Yallon, who, at his son's desire, has sent me with
an escort to conduct you on your promised visit to Timbo. During your absence, my lord has
commanded us to dwell in your stead at Kambia, so that your property may be safe from the Mulatto
Mongo of Bangalang, whose malice towards your person has been heard of even among our distant
hills!"

The latter portion of this message somewhat surprised me, for though my relations with Mongo
John were by no means amicable, I did not imagine that the story of our rupture had spread
so far, or been received with so much sympathy.

Accordingly, when Mami-de-Yong finished his message, I approached him with thanks for his master's
interest in my welfare; and, placing Ahmah-de-Bellah's Koran--which I had previously wrapped
in a white napkin--in his hands, as a token of the nephew's friendship, I retired once more
to my seat. As soon as the holy book appeared from the folds, Mami-de-Yong drew a breath of
surprise, and striking his breast, fell on his knees with his head on the ground, where he
remained for several minutes apparently in rapt devotion. As he rose--his forehead sprinkled
with dust, and his eyes sparkling with tears--he opened the volume, and pointed out to me and
his people his own handwriting, which he translated to signify that "Mami-de-Yong gave this
word of God to Ahmah-de-Bellah, his kinsman." At the reading of the sentence, all the Fullahs
shouted, "Glory to Allah and Mahomet his Prophet!" Then, coming forward again to the chief,
I laid my hand on the Koran, and swore by the help of God, to accept the invitation of the
great king of Footha-Yallon.

This terminated the ceremonial reception, after which I hastened to conduct Mami-de-Yong to
his quarters, where I presented him with a sparkling new kettle and an inkstand, letting him
understand, moreover, I was specially anxious to know that all the wants of his attendants
in the caravan were completely satisfied.

Next morning early, I remembered the joy of his nephew Ahmah-de-Bellah, when I first treated
him to coffee; and determined to welcome the chief, as soon as he came forth from his ablutions
to prayers, with a cup distilled from the fragrant berry. I could not have hit upon a luxury
more gratifying to the old gentleman. Thirty years before had he drank it in Timbuctoo, where
it is used, he said, by the Moses-people (meaning the Hebrews), with milk and honey; and its
delicious aroma brought the well-remembered taste to his lips ere they touched the sable fluid.

Long before Mami-de-Yong's arrival, his fame as a learned "book-man" and extensive traveller
preceded him, so that when he mentioned his travel to Timbuctoo, I begged him to give me some
account of that "capital of capitals," as the Africans call it. The royal messenger promised
to comply as soon as he finished the morning lessons of the caravan's children. His quarters
were filled with a dozen or more of young Fullahs and Mandingoes squatted around a fire, while
the prince sat apart in a corner with inkstand, writing reeds, and a pile of old manuscripts.
Ali-Ninpha, our backsliding Mahometan, stood by, pretending devoted attention to Mami's precepts
and the Prophet's versus. The sinner was a scrupulous follower in the presence of the faithful;
but when their backs were turned, I know few who relished a porker more lusciously, or avoided
water with more scrupulous care. Yet why should I scoff at poor Ali? Joseph and I had done
our best to civilize him!

Mami-de-Yong apologized for the completion of his daily task in my presence, and went on with
his instruction, while the pupils wrote down notes, on wooden slabs, with reeds and a fluid
made of powder dissolved in water.

I am sorry to say that these Ethiopian Mahometans are but poor scholars. Their entire instruction
amounts to little more than the Koran, and when they happen to write or receive a letter, its
interpretation is a matter over which many an hour is toilsomely spent. Mami-de-Yong, however,
was superior to most of his countrymen; and, in fact, I must record him in my narrative as
the most erudite Negro I ever encountered.

HIS TRIP TO TIMBUCTOO.

True to his promise, the envoy came to my piazza, as soon as school was over, and squatting
sociably on our mats and sheepskins, with a plentiful supply of pipes and tobacco, we formed
as pleasant a little party as was assembled that day on the banks of the Rio Pongo. Ali-Ninpha
acted as interpreter, having prepared himself for the long-winded task by a preliminary dram
from my private locker, out of sight of the noble Mahometan.

Invoking the Lord's name,--as is usual among Mussulmen,--Mami-de-Yong took a long whiff at
his pipe, and, receiving from his servant a small bag of fine sand, spread it smoothly on the
floor, leaving the mass about a quarter of an inch in thickness. This was his black-board,
designed to serve for the delineation of his journey. On the westernmost margin of his sand,
he dotted a point with his finger for the starting at Timbo. As he proceeded with his track
over Africa towards the grand capital, he marked the outlines of the principal territories,
and spotted the remarkable towns through which he passed. By a thick or thin line, he denoted
the large rivers and small streams that intercepted his path, while he heaved up the sand into
heaps to represent a mountain, or smoothed it into perfect levels to imitate the broad prairies
and savannas of the interior. When he came to a dense forest, his snuff-box was called in requisition,
and a pinch or two judiciously sprinkled, stood for the monarchs of the wood.

Like all Oriental story-tellers, Mami proved rather prolix. His tale was nearly as long as
his travel. He insisted on describing his reception at every village. At each river he had
his story of difficulty and danger in constructing rafts or building bridges. He counted the
minutes he lost in awaiting the diminution of floods. Anon, he would catalogue the various
fish with which a famous river teemed; and, when he got fairly into the woods, there was no
end of adventures and hairbreadth escapes from alligators, elephants, anacondas, vipers, and
the fatal tape snake, whose bite is certain death. In the mountains he encountered wolves,
wild asses, hyænas, zebras, and eagles.

In fact, the whole morning glided away with a geographical, zoological, and statistical overture
to his tour; so that, when the hour of prayer and ablution arrived, Mami-de-Yong had not yet
reached Timbuctoo! The double rite of cleanliness and faith required him to pause in his narrative;
and, apologizing for the interruption, he left a slave to guard the map while he retired to
perform his religious services.

When the noble Fullah got back, I had a nice lunch prepared on a napkin in the neighborhood
of his diagram, so that he could munch his biscuits and sugar without halting on his path.
Before he began, however, I took the liberty to offer a hint about the precious value of time
in this brief life of ours, whilst I asked a question or two about the "capital of capitals,"
to indicate my eagerness to enter the walls of Timbuctoo. Mami-de-Yong, who was a man of tact
as well as humor, smiled at my insinuation, and apologizing like a Christian for the natural
tediousness of all old travellers, skipped a degree or two of the wilderness, and at once stuck
his buffalo-horn snuff-box into the eastern margin of the sand, to indicate that he was at
his journey's end.

Mami had visited many of the European colonies and Moorish kingdoms on the north coast of Africa,
so that he enjoyed the advantage of comparison, and, of course, was not stupefied by the untravelled
ignorance of Africans who consider Timbuctoo a combination of Paris and paradise. Indeed, he
did not presume, like most of the Mandingo chiefs, to prefer it to Senegal or Sierra Leone.
He confessed that the royal palace was nothing but a vast inclosure of mud walls, built without
taste or symmetry, within whose labyrinthine mesh there were numerous buildings for the wives,
children, and kindred of the sovereign. If the royal palace of Timbuctoo was of such a character,--"What,"
said he, "were the dwellings of nobles and townsfolk?" The streets were paths;--the stores
were shops;--the suburb of an European colony was superior to their best display! The markets
of Timbuctoo, alone, secured his admiration. Every week they were thronged with traders, dealers,
peddlers and merchants, who either dwelt in the neighboring kingdoms, or came from afar with
slaves and produce. Moors and Israelites, from the north-east, were the most eminent and opulent
merchants; and among them he counted a travelling class, crowned with peculiar turbans, whom
he called "Joseph's-people," or, in all likelihood, Armenians.

The prince had no mercy on the government of this influential realm. Strangers, he said, were
watched and taxed. Indeed, he spoke of it with the peculiar love that we would suppose a Hungarian
might bear towards Austria, or a Milanese to the inquisitorial powers of Lombardy. In fact,
I found that, despite of its architectural meanness, Timbuctoo was a great central mart for
exchange, and that commercial men as well as the innumerable petty kings, frequented it not
only for the abundant mineral salt in its vicinity, but because they could exchange their slaves
for foreign merchandise. I asked the Fullah why he preferred the markets of Timbuctoo to the
well-stocked stores of regular European settlements on a coast which was reached with so much
more ease than this core of Africa? "Ah!" said the astute trafficker, "no market is a good
one for the genuine African, in which he cannot openly exchange his blacks for whatever the
original owner or importer can sell without fear! Slaves, Don Téodore, are our money!"

The answer solved in my mind one of the political problems in the question of African civilization,
which I shall probably develope in the course of this narrative.

CHAPTER XVII.

Having completed the mercantile negotiations of the caravan, and made my personal arrangements
for a protracted absence, I put the noble Fullah in charge of my establishment, with special
charges to my retainers, clerks, runners, and villagers, to regard the Mami as my second self.
I thought it well, moreover, before I plunged into the wilderness,--leaving my worldly goods
and worldly prospects in charge of a Mussulman stranger,--to row down to Bangalang for a parting
chat with Mongo John, in which I might sound the veteran as to his feeling and projects. Ormond
was in trouble as soon as I appeared. He was willing enough that I might perish by treachery
on the roadside, yet he was extremely reluctant that I should penetrate Africa and make alliances
which should give me superiority over the monopolists of the beach. I saw these things passing
through his jealous heart as we talked together with uncordial civility. At parting I told
the Mongo, for the first time, that I was sure my establishment would not go to decay or suffer
harm in my absence, inasmuch as that powerful Fullah, the Ali-Mami of Footha-Yallon had deputed
a lieutenant to watch Kambia while I travelled, and that he would occupy my village with his
chosen warriors. The mulatto started with surprise as I finished, and abruptly left the apartment
in silence.

I slept well that night, notwithstanding the Mongo's displeasure. My confidence in the Fullah
was perfect. Stranger as he was, I had an instinctive reliance on his protection of my home,
and his guardianship of my person through the wilderness.

At day-dawn I was up. It was a fresh and glorious morning. As nature awoke in the woods of
that primitive world, the mists stole off from the surface of the water; and, as the first
rays shot through the glistening dew of the prodigious vegetation, a thousand birds sent forth
their songs as if to welcome me into their realm of unknown paths.

After a hearty breakfast my Spanish clerk was furnished with minute instructions in writing,
and, at the last moment, I presented the Fullah chief to my people as a temporary master to
whom they were to pay implicit obedience for his generous protection. By ten o'clock, my caravan
was in motion. It consisted of thirty individuals deputed by Ahmah-de-Bellah, headed by one
of his relations as captain. Ten of my own servants were assigned to carry baggage, merchandise,
and provisions; while Ali-Ninpha, two interpreters, my body-servant, a waiter, and a hunter,
composed my immediate guard. In all, there were about forty-five persons.

When we were starting, Mami-de-Yong approached to "snap fingers," and put in my hands a verse
of the Koran in his master's handwriting,--"hospitality to the wearied stranger is the road
to heaven,"--which was to serve me as a passport among all good Mahometans. If I had time,
no doubt I would have thought how much more Christian this document was than the formal paper
with which we are fortified by "foreign offices" and "state departments," when we go abroad
from civilized lands;--but, before I could summon so much sentiment, the Fullah chief stooped
to the earth, and filling his hands with dust, sprinkled it over our heads, in token of a prosperous
journey. Then, prostrating himself with his head on the ground, he bade us "go our way!"

I believe I have already said that even the best of African roads are no better than goat-paths,
and barely sufficient for the passage of a single traveller. Accordingly, our train marched
off in single file. Two men, cutlass in hand, armed, besides, with loaded muskets, went in
advance not only to scour the way and warn us of danger, but to cut the branches and briers
that soon impede an untravelled path in this prolific land. They marched within hail of the
caravan, and shouted whenever we approached bee-trees, ant-hills, hornet-nests, reptiles, or
any of the Ethiopian perils that are unheard of in our American forests. Behind these pioneers,
came the porters with food and luggage; the centre of the caravan was made up of women, children,
guards, and followers; while the rear was commanded by myself and the chiefs, who, whips in
hand, found it sometimes beneficial to stimulate the steps of stragglers. As we crossed the
neighboring Soosoo towns, our imposing train was saluted with discharges of musketry, while
crowds of women and children followed their "cupy," or "white-man," to bid him farewell on
the border of the settlement.

For a day or two our road passed through a rolling country, interspersed with forests, cultivated
fields, and African villages, in which we were welcomed by the generous chiefs with bungees,
or trifling gifts, in token of amity. Used to the scant exercise of a lazy dweller on the coast,
whose migrations are confined to a journey from his house to the landing, and from the landing
to his house, it required some time to habituate me once more to walking. By degrees, however,
I overcame the foot-sore weariness that wrapped me in perfect lassitude when I sank into my
hammock on the first night of travel. However, as we became better acquainted with each other
and with wood-life, we tripped along merrily in the shadowy silence of the forest,--singing,
jesting, and praising Allah. Even the slaves were relaxed into familiarity never permitted
in the towns; while masters would sometimes be seen relieving the servants by bearing their
burdens. At nightfall the women brought water, cooked food, and distributed rations; so that,
after four days pleasant wayfaring in a gentle trot, our dusty caravan halted at sunset before
the closed gates of a fortified town belonging to Ibrahim Ali, the Mandingo chief of Kya.

It was some time before our shouts and beating on the gates aroused the watchman to answer
our appeal, for it was the hour of prayer, and Ibrahim was at his devotions. At last, pestered
by their dalliance, I fired my double-barrelled gun, whose loud report I knew was more likely
to reach the ear of a praying Mussulman. I did not reckon improperly, for hardly had the echoes
died away before the great war-drum of the town was rattled, while a voice from a loophole
demanded our business. I left the negotiation for our entry to the Fullah chief, who forthwith
answered that "the Ali-Mami's caravan, laden with goods, demanded hospitality;" while Ali-Ninpha
informed the questioner, that Don Téodore, the "white man of Kambia," craved admittance to
the presence of Ibrahim the faithful.

In a short time the wicket creaked, and Ibrahim himself put forth his head to welcome the strangers,
and to admit them, one by one, into the town. His reception of myself and Ali-Ninpha was extremely
cordial; but the Fullah chief was addressed with cold formality, for the Mandingoes have but
little patience with the well-known haughtiness of their national rivals.

Ali-Ninpha had been Ibrahim's playmate before he migrated to the coast. Their friendship still
existed in primitive sincerity, and the chieftain's highest ambition was to honor the companion
and guest of his friend. Accordingly, his wives and females were summoned to prepare my quarters
with comfort and luxury. The best house was chosen for my lodging. The earthen floor was spread
with mats. Hides were stretched on adobe couches, and a fire was kindled to purify the atmosphere.
Pipes were furnished my companions; and, while a hammock was slung for my repose before supper,
a chosen henchman was dispatched to seek the fattest sheep for that important meal.

Ibrahim posted sentinels around my hut, so that my slumbers were uninterrupted, until Ali-Ninpha
roused me with the pleasant news that the bowls of rice and stews were smoking on the mat in
the chamber of Ibrahim himself. Ninpha knew my tastes and superintended the cook. He had often
jested at the "white man's folly," when my stomach turned at some disgusting dish of the country;
so that the pure roasts and broils of well-known pieces slipped down my throat with the appetite
of a trooper. While these messes were under discussion, the savory steam of a rich stew with
a creamy sauce saluted my nostrils, and, without asking leave, I plunged my spoon into a dish
that stood before my entertainers, and seemed prepared exclusively for themselves. In a moment
I was invited to partake of the bonne-bouche; and so delicious did I find it, that, even at
this distance of time, my mouth waters when I remember the forced-meat balls of mutton, minced
with roasted ground-nuts, that I devoured that night in the Mandingo town of Kya.

But the best of feasts is dull work without an enlivening bowl. Water alone--pure and cool
as it was in this hilly region--did not quench our thirst. Besides this, I recollected the
fondness of my landlord, Ali-Ninpha, for strong distillations, and I guessed that his playmate
might indulge, at least privately, in a taste for similar libations. I spoke, therefore, of
"cordial bitters,"--(a name not unfamiliar even to the most temperate Christians, in defence
of flatulent stomachs,)--and at the same time producing my travelling canteen of Otard's best,
applied it to the nostrils of the pair.

I know not how it happened, but before I could warn the Mahometans of the risk they incurred,
the lips of the bottle slid from their noses to their mouths, while upheaved elbows long sustained
in air, gave notice that the flask was relishing and the draft "good for their complaints."
Indeed, so appetizing was the liquor, that another ground-nut stew was demanded; and, of course,
another bottle was required to allay its dyspeptic qualities.

By degrees, the brandy did its work on the worthy Mahometans. While it restored Ali-Ninpha
to his early faith, and brought him piously to his knees with prayers to Allah, it had a contrary
effect on Ibrahim, whom it rendered wild and generous. Every thing was mine;--house, lands,
slaves, and children. He dwelt rapturously on the beauty of his wives, and kissed Ali-Ninpha
in mistake for one of them. This only rendered the apostate more devout than ever, and set
him roaring invocations like a muezzin from a minaret. In the midst of these orgies, I stole
off at midnight, and was escorted by my servant to a delicious hammock.

It was day-dawn when the caravan's crier aroused me, as he stood on a house-top calling the
faithful to prayer previous to our departure. Before I could stir, Ali-Ninpha, haggard, sick,
and crest-fallen, from his debauch, rolled into my chamber, and begged the postponement of
our departure, as it was impossible for Ibrahim Ali to appear, being perfectly vanquished by--"the
bitters!" The poor devil hiccoughed between his words, and so earnestly and with so many bodily
gyrations implored my interference with the Fullah guide, that I saw at once he was in no condition
to travel.

As the caravan was my personal escort and designed exclusively for my convenience, I did not
hesitate to command a halt, especially as I was in some measure the cause of my landlord's
malady. Accordingly, I tied a kerchief round my head, covered myself with a cloak, and leaning
very lackadaisically on the edge of my hammock, sent for the Fullah chief.

I moaned with pain as he approached, and, declaring that I was prostrated by sudden fever,
hoped he would indulge me by countermanding the order for our march. I do not know whether
the worthy Mussulman understood my case or believed my fever, but the result was precisely
the same, for he assented to my request like a gentleman, and expressed the deepest sympathy
with my sufferings. His next concern was for my cure. True to the superstition and bigotry
of his country, the good-natured Fullah insisted on taking the management of matters into his
own hands, and forthwith prescribed a dose from the Koran, diluted in water, which he declared
was a specific remedy for my complaint. I smiled at the idea of making a drug of divinity,
but as I knew that homoeopathy was harmless under the circumstances, I requested the Fullah
to prepare his physic on the spot. The chief immediately brought his Koran, and turning over
the leaves attentively for some time, at last hit on the appropriate verse, which he wrote
down on a board with gunpowder ink, which he washed off into a bowl with clean water. This
was given me to swallow, and the Mahometan left me to the operation of his religious charm,
with special directions to the servant to allow no one to disturb my rest.

I have no doubt that the Fullah was somewhat of a quiz, and thought a chapter in his Bible
a capital lesson after a reckless debauch; so I ordered my door to be barricaded, and slept
like a dormouse, until Ibrahim and Ali-Ninpha came thundering at the portal long after mid-day.
They were sadly chopfallen. Penitence spoke from their aching brows; nor do I hesitate to believe
they were devoutly sincere when they forswore "bitters" for the future. In order to allay suspicion,
or quiet his conscience, the Fullah had been presented with a magnificent ram-goat, flanked
by baskets of choicest rice.

