While noticing the false wit which passed current in that century, we must not forget that
the same age produced a South and a Butler: and that in beauty of simile, few, if any, surpass
Bishop Jeremy Taylor.]

[Footnote 2: An Analysis of the "divers pamphlets published against the Book of Common Prayer"
would make a very curious volume. Take a passage from the Anatomy of the Service Book, for
instance: "The cruellest of the American savages, called the Mohaukes, though they fattened
their captive Christians to the slaughter, yet they eat them up at once; but the Service-book
savages eat the servants of God by piece-meal: keeping them alive (if it may be called a life)
ut sentiant se mori, that they may be the more sensible of their dying" (p. 56.). The learned
divine chases his metaphor at a very cold scent, through a pamphlet of his mortal quarto pages.--See
a Parallel of the Liturgy with the Mass Book, Breviary, &c., by Robert Baylie. 1661, 4to.]

[Footnote 3: [See "N. & Q.," Vol. viii., p. 172.--ED.]]

[Footnote 4: See Grey's Hudibras, Dublin, 1744, vol. ii. p. 248., vol. i. pp. 150, 151., where
allusions both to "The Trojan Mare" and tying "the fox tails together" occur. Butler was versed
in the controversies of his day, and, moreover, loved to satirise the metaphor mania by his
exquisitely comic similes.]

[Footnote 5: Let any one interested in the history of Comprehension refer to the proceedings
relative to the formation of the "Evangelical Alliance." Jeremy Collier gives a curious parallel:--"Lord
Burleigh, upon some complaint against the Liturgy, bade the Dissenters draw up another, and
contrive the offices in such a form as might give general satisfaction to their brethren. Upon
this overture the first classis struck out their lines, and drew mostly by the portrait of
Geneva. This draught was referred to the consideration of a second classis, who made no less
than six hundred exceptions to it. The third classis quarrelled with the corrections of the
second, and declared for a new model. The fourth refined no less upon the third. The treasurer
advised all these reviews, and different committees, on purpose to break their measures and
silence their clamours against the Church. However, since they could not come to any agreement
in a form for divine service, he had a handsome opportunity for a release: for now they could
not decently importune him any farther. To part smoothly with them, he assured their agents
that, when they came to any unanimous resolve upon the matter before them, they might expect
his friendship, and that he should be ready to bring their scheme to a settlement." Collier's
Hist., vol. viii. p. 16. See Cardwell's Hist. of the Conference connected with the Revision
of the Book of Common Prayer, London, 1849, 8vo. See also Quarterly Review, vol. 1. pp. 508-561.,
No. C. Jan. 1834. The present American Prayer Book is formed on the Comprehension scheme. Last
year Pickering published a Book of Common Prayer of the Church of England, adapted for General
Use in other Protestant Churches, which is well worth referring to.

Those who wished to "comprehend" at the Roman side of the via media were very few. Elizabeth
and Laud are the most prominent instances. Charles I., and afterwards the Nonjurors, had schemes
of communion with the Greek Church. A History of Comprehension would involve a historical notice
of the Thirty-nine Articles, and the plan of Comprehension maintained by some to be the intention
of their framers. It should include also distinctive sketches of the classes formerly denominated
Church Papists and Church Puritans.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TESTIMONIALS TO DONKEYS.

The following extract from an article on "Angling in North Wales," which appeared in The Field
newspaper of October 22nd, contains a specimen of an entirely original kind of testimonial,
which seems to me worthy of preservation in "N. & Q.'s" museum of curiosities:

    "Beguiled by the treacherous representations of a certain Mr. Williams,
    and the high character of his donkeys, I undertook the ascent of Dunas
    Bran, and poked about among the ruins of Crow Castle on its summit,
    where I found nothing of any consequence, except an appetite for my
    dinner. The printed paper which Mr. Williams hands about, deploring the
    loss of his 'character,' and testifying to the wonderful superiority of
    all his animals, is rather amusing. Mr. Williams evidently never had a
    donkey 'what wouldn't go.' This paper commences with an affidavit from
    certain of the householders and literati of Llangollen, that he 'had
    received numerous testimonials, all of which we are sorry to say has
    been lost.' Those preserved, however, and immortalised in print,
    suffice to establish Mr. Williams' reputation:

    "Mr. W. and his son and daughter bear testimony to the civility and
    attention of Mr. Williams and his donkeys.

    "S. P., Esquire, attended at the Haud Hotel, 24th June, 1851, and
    engaged four of Mr. Williams' donkeys for the use of a party of ladies,
    who expressed themselves highly gratified. The animals were remarkably
    tractable, and void of stupidity.

    "Mrs. D. A. B. visited Valle Crucis Abbey on the back of Mr. Williams'
    ass, and is well satisfied.

     "Sept. 4. 1852.
          This is to certify that
            LADY MARSHALL
        Is to Donkeys very partial,
        And no postilion in a car, shall
      Ever more her drive
        O'er all the stones;
        On 'Jenny Jones'
      She'll ride while she's alive!"

Those who have visited Malvern will remember the vast quantity of donkeys who rejoice in the
cognomen of "The Royal Moses." Their history is as follows:--When the late Queen Dowager was
at Malvern, she frequently ascended the hills on donkey-back; and on all such occasions patronised
a poor old woman, whose stud had been reduced, by a succession of misfortunes, to a solitary
donkey, who answered to the name of "Moses." At the close of her visit, her majesty, with that
kindness of heart which was such a distinguishing trait in her character, not only liberally
rewarded the poor old woman, but asked her if there was anything that she could do for her
which would be likely to bring back her former prosperity. The old woman turned the matter
over in her mind, and then said, "Please your majesty to give a name to my donkey." This her
Majesty did. "Moses" became "the Royal Moses;" every body wanted to ride him; the old woman's
custom increased, and when the favoured animal died (for he is dead) he left behind him a numerous
family, all of whom called after their father, "the Royal Moses."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONGEVITY IN CLEVELAND, YORKSHIRE.

A cursory conversation with a lady in her eighty-fifth year, now living at Skelton in Cleveland,
in the North Riding of Yorkshire, when she {489} deprecated the notion that she was one of
the old inhabitants, led me to inquire more particularly into the duration of life in that
township. The minister, the Rev. W. Close, who has been the incumbent since the year 1813,
and who has had the duties to perform, and the registers to keep, therefore, from about the
period of the act which required the age to be stated, now forty years ago, was most willing
to give me aid and extracts from the burial register, from the commencement of 1813 to August,
1852, during which period 799 persons were buried. The extracts show these extraordinary facts.

Out of the 799 persons buried in that period, no less than 263, or nearly one-third, attained
the age of 70. Of these two, viz. Mary Postgate, who died in 1816, and Ann Stonehouse, who
died in 1823, attained respectively the ages of 101. Nineteen others were 90 years of age and
upwards, viz. one was 97, one was 96, one was 95, four were 94, one was 93, five were 92, three
were 91, and three were 90. Between the ages of 80 and 90 there died 109, of whom thirty-nine
were 85 and upwards, and seventy were under 85; and between the ages of 70 and 80 there died
133, of whom sixty-five were 75 years and upwards, and sixty-eight were between 70 and 75.
In one page of the register containing eight names, six were above 80, and in another five
were above 70.

In this parish of Skelton there is now living a man named Moon, 104 years old, who is blind
now, but managed a small farm till nearly or quite 100; and a blacksmith named Robinson Cook,
aged 98, who worked at his trade till May last.

In the chapelry of Brotton, which adjoins Skelton township, and has been also under the spiritual
charge of Mr. Close, the longevity is even more remarkable. Out of 346 persons buried since
the new register came into force in 1813, down to 1st October, 1853, no less than 121, or more
than one-third, attained the age of 70. One Betty Thompson, who died in 1834, was 101; nineteen
were more than 90, of whom one was 98, two were 97, three were 95, one was 93, four were 92,
five were 91, and three were 90; there were forty-four who died between 80 and 90 years old,
of whom nineteen were 85 and upwards, and twenty-five were between 80 and 85; and there were
fifty-seven who died between the ages of 70 and 80, of whom no less than thirty-one were 75
and upwards. The average of the chapelry is increased from the circumstance that sixteen bodies
of persons drowned in the sea in wrecks, and whose ages were not of course very great, are
included in the whole number of 346 burials. That celibacy did not lessen the chance of life,
was proved by a bachelor named Simpson, who died at 92, and his maiden sister at 91.

I am told that the neighbouring parish of Upleatham has also a high character for longevity,
but I had not the same opportunity of examining the register as was afforded me by Mr. Close.

And now for a Query. What other, if any district in the north or south, will show like or greater
longevity?

WILLIAM DURRANT COOPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

REV. JOSIAH PULLEN.

Every Oxford man regards with some degree of interest that goal of so many of his walks, Joe
Pullen's tree, on Headington Hill. So at least it was in my time, now some thirty years since.
Perhaps the following notices of him, who I suppose planted it, or at all events gave name
to it, may be acceptable to your Oxford readers. They are taken from that most curious collection
(alas! too little known) the Pocket-books of Tom Hearne, vol. liii. pp. 25-35., now in the
Bodleian:

    "Jan. 1, 1714-15. Last night died Mr. Josiah Pullen, A.M., minister of
    St. Peter's in the East, and Vice-Principal of Magdalen Hall. He had
    also a parsonage in the country. He was formerly domestick chaplain to
    Bishop Sanderson, to whom he administered the sacrament at his death.
    He lived to a very great age, being about fourscore and three, and was
    always very healthy and vigorous. He was regular in his way of living,
    but too close, considering that he was a single man, and was wealthy.
    He seldom used spectacles, which made him guilty of great blunders at
    divine service, for he would officiate to the last. He administered the
    Sacrament last Christmas Day to a great congregation at St. Peter's,
    which brought his illness upon him. He took his B.A. degree May 26,
    1654. He became minister of St. Peter's in the East anno 1668, which
    was the year before Dr. Charlett was entered at Oxford."--P. 25.

    "Jan. 7, Friday. This day, at four in the afternoon, Mr. Pullen was
    buried in St. Peter's Church, in the chapel at the north side of the
    chancell. All the parishioners were invited, and the pall was held up
    by six Heads of Houses, though it should have been by six Masters of
    Arts, as Dr. Radcliffe's pall should have been held up by Doctors in
    Physic, and not by Doctors of Divinity and Doctors of Law."--P. 32.

Dr. Radcliffe's funeral had taken place in the preceding month.

In Nichols's Literary Anecdotes, vol. iv. p. 181., is the following epitaph of Pullen, drawn
up by Mr. Thomas Wagstaffe:

    "Hic jacet reverendus vir Josia Pullen, A.M. Aulæ Magd. 57 annos vice
    principalis, necnon hujusce ecclesiæ Pastor 39 annos. Obiit 31^o
    Decembris, anno Domini 1714, ætatis 84."

From the notice of Thomas Walden, in Johnson's Lives of the Poets, it appears that Yalden was
a pupil of Pullen. (See also Walton's Life of Sanderson, towards the end.) I hope this may
elicit some farther account of a man whose name has survived so long in Oxford memory. {490}

As to the tree, I have some recollection of having heard that it had a few years ago a narrow
escape of being thrown down, sometime about the vice-chancellorship of Dr. Symons, who promptly
came forward to the rescue. Was it ever in such peril? and, if so, was it preserved?

BALLIOLENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Ancient Custom in Warwickshire.--In Sir William Dugdale's Diary, under the year 1658, is noted
the following:

    "On All Hallow Even, the master of the family antiently used to carry a
    bunch of straw, fired, about his corne, saying,

     'Fire and red low,
      Light on my teen low.'"

Can any of your readers learned in ancient lore explain the custom and the meaning of the couplet,
well as its origin? Does it now at all prevail in that county?

J. B. WHITBORNE.

Nottinghamshire Customs.--1. The 29th of May is observed by the Notts juveniles not only by
wearing the usual piece of oak-twig, but each young loyalist is armed with a nettle, as coarse
as can be procured, with which instrument of torture are coerced those unfortunates who are
unprovided with "royal oak," as it is called. Some who are unable to procure it endeavour to
avoid the penalty by wearing "dog-oak" (maple), but the punishment is always more severe on
discovery of the imposition.

2. On Shrove Tuesday, the first pancake cooked is given to Chanticleer for his sole gratification.

3. The following matrimonial custom prevails at Wellow or Welley, as it is called, a village
in the heart of the county. The account is copied from the Notts Guardian of April 28, 1853:

    "Wellow. It has been a custom from time immemorial in this parish, when
    the banns of marriage are published, for a person, selected by the
    clerk, to rise and say 'God speed them well,' the clerk and
    congregation responding, Amen! Owing to the recent death of the person
    who officiated in this ceremony, last Sunday, after the banns of
    marriage were read, a perfect silence prevailed, the person chosen,
    either from want of courage or loss of memory, not performing his part
    until after receiving an intimation from the clerk, and then in so
    faint a tone as to be scarcely audible. His whispered good wishes were,
    however, followed by a hearty Amen, mingled with some laughter in
    different parts of the church."

I do not know whether any notices of the above have appeared in "N. & Q.," and send to inquire
respecting 1. and 3. whether a similar custom holds elsewhere; and whether 2. has any connexion
with the disused practice of cock-shying?

FURVUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

A Centenarian Couple.--The obituary of Blackwood's Magazine for August, 1821, contains the
following:

    "Lately, in Campbell, County Virginia, Mr. Chas. Layne, sen., aged 121
    years, being born at Albemarle, near Buckingham county, 1700. He has
    left a widow aged 110 years, and a numerous and respectable family down
    to the fourth generation. He was a subject of four British sovereigns,
    and a citizen of the United States for nearly forty-eight years. Until
    within a few years he enjoyed all his faculties, and excellent health."

The above extract is followed by notices of the deaths of Anne Bryan, of Ashford, co. Waterford,
aged 111; and Wm. Munro, gardener at Rose Hall, aged 104.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

"Veni, vidi, vici."--To these remarkable and well-known words of the Roman general, I beg to
forward two more sententious despatches of celebrated generals:

  Suwarrow. "Slava bogu! Slava vam!
              Krepost Vzala, yiatam."

 "Glory to God and the Empress! Ismail's ours."

It is also stated, I do not know on what authority, that the old and lamented warrior, Sir
Charles Napier, wrote on the conquest of Scinde, "Peccavi."

Perhaps some of your correspondents could add a few more pithy sentences on a like subject.

G. LLOYD.

Dublin.

Autumnal Tints.--Scarce any one can have failed to notice the unusual richness and brilliance
of the autumnal tints on the foliage this year. I have more particularly remarked this in Clydesdale,
the lake districts of Cumberland and Westmoreland, and in Somersetshire and Devonshire. Can
any of the contributors to "N. & Q." inform me if attributable to the extraordinary wetness
of the season?

R. H. B.

Variety is pleasing.--Looking over my last year's note-book, I find the following morceau,
which I think ought to be preserved in "N. & Q.:"

    "Nov. 30, 1851. Observed in the window of the Shakspeare Inn a written
    paper running thus:

         'To be raffled for:
      The finding of Moses, and six
            Fat geeze(!!).
          Tickets at the bar.'"

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Rome and the Number Six.--It has been remarked lately in "N. & Q." that in English history,
the reign of the second sovereign of the same name has been infelicitous. I cannot turn to
the {491} note I read, and I forget whether it noticed the remarks in Aubrey's Miscellanies
(London, 8vo., 1696), that "all the second kings since the Conquest have been unfortunate."
It may be worth the while to add (what is remarked by Mr. Matthews in his Diary of an Invalid),
that the number six has been considered at Rome as ominous of misfortune. Tarquinius Sextus
was the very worst of the Tarquins, and his brutal conduct led to a revolution in the government;
under Urban the Sixth, the great schism of the West broke out; Alexander the Sixth outdid all
that his predecessors amongst the Tarquins or the Popes had ventured to do before him; and
the presentiment seemed to receive confirmation in the misfortunes of the reign of his successor
Pius VI., to whose election was applied the line:

 "Semper sub sextis perdita Roma fuit."

W. S. G.

Newcastle-on-Tyne.

Zend Grammar.--The following fragment on Zend grammar having fallen in my way, I inclose you
a copy, as the remarks contained in it may be of service to Oriental scholars.

I am unable to state the author's name, although I suspect the MS. to be from a highly important
quarter. The subject-matter, however, is sufficiently important to merit publication.

    "The Zend, of disputed authenticity, and the Asmani Zuban, a
    notoriously fictitious tongue, compared."

    "It is well known that Sanscrit words abound in Zend; and that some
    of its inflexions are formed by the rules of the Vyacaran or Sanscrit
    grammar.

    "It would therefore seem quite possible that by application of these
    rules a grammar might be written of the Zend. Would such a
    composition afford any proof of the disputed point--the authenticity of
    the Zend?

    "I think it would not, and support my opinion by reasons founded on the
    following facts.

    "The Asmani Zuban of the Desstù is most intimately allied to Persian.
    It is, in fact, fabricated out of that language, as is shown by clear
    internal evidence. Now the grammatical structure of this fictitious
    tongue is identical with that of Persian: and hence by following the
    rules of Persian grammar, a grammar of the Asmani Zuban might be
    easily framed. But would this work advance the cause of forgery, and
    tend to invest it with the quality of truth? No more, I answer, and for
    the same reason, than is a grammar of the Zend, founded on the
    Vyacaran, to be received in proof of the authenticity of that
    language."

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

The Duke's first Victory.--Perhaps it may interest the future author of the life of the Duke
of Wellington to be informed of his first victory. It was not in India, as commonly supposed,
but on Donnybrook Road, near Dublin, that his first laurels were won. This appears from the
Freeman's Journal, September 18th, 1789, where we learn that in consequence of a wager between
him and Mr. Whaley of 150 guineas, the Hon. Arthur Wesley walked from the five-mile stone on
Donnybrook Road to the corner of the circular road in Leeson Street, in fifty-five minutes,
and that a number of gentlemen rode with the walker, whose horses he kept in a tolerable smart
trot. When it is recollected that those were Irish miles, even deducting the distance from
Leeson Street to the Castle, whence the original measurements were made, this walk must be
computed at nearly six English miles.

OMICRON.

Straw Paper.--Various papers manufactured of straw are now in the market. The pen moves so
easily over any and all of them, that literary men should give them a trial. As there seems
considerable likelihood of this manufacture being extensively introduced, on account of the
dearness of rags, &c., it is to be hoped that it will not be improved into the resemblance
of ordinary paper. Time was when ordinary paper could be written on in comfort, but that which
adulterated Falstaff's sack spoiled it for the purpose, and converted it into limed twigs to
catch the winged pen.

M.

American Epitaph (Vol. viii., p. 273.).--The following lines are to be seen on a tombstone
in Virginia:

 "My name, my country, what are they to thee?
  What whether high, or low, my pedigree?
  Perhaps I far surpassed all other men:
  Perhaps I fell behind them all--what then?
  Suffice it, stranger, that thou see'st a tomb,
  Thou know'st its use; it hides--no matter whom."

W. W.

Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

LAURIE (?) ON CURRENCY, ETC.

I have before me a bulky volume, apparently unpublished, treating of currency and of many other
politico-economical affairs; the authorship of which I am desirous of tracing. If any reader
of "N. & Q." can assist my search I shall feel greatly obliged to him.

This volume extends to 936 closely printed pages, and is altogether without divisions either
of book, chapter, or section. It has neither title-page, conclusion, imprint, or date; and
my copy seems to consist of revises or "clean sheets" as they came from the press. The main
gist of the work is thus described, apparently by the author himself, in a MS. note which occupies
the place of the title-page:

    "It is here meant to show that in civilised nations money is an
    emanating circulable wealth and power, {492} without which individuals
    cannot go on in improvement on independent principles. It resolves
    wealth into the forms most conducive to this object, and prepares for
    the highest services both individuals and communities."

The book, however, is extremely discursive, and no small portion of it is devoted to foreign
politics. Thus, of the "Eastern Question," the author disposes in this fashion:

    "Austria, to answer its destination, ought to comprise Wallachia,
    Bessarabia, Moldavia, and, following the line of demarcation drawn by
    the Danube, the whole territory at its debouchment.... Turkey cannot
    regard the sacrifices proposed as of much importance, when such
    security as that now in contemplation could be obtained. The whole
    strength of her immense empire is at present drained to support her
    contest on this very barrier with Russia. But that barrier, it is
    evident, would this way be effectually secured: for Austria has too
    many points of importance to protect, to dream of creating new ones on
    this feeble yet extended confine of her domains."--Pp. 835, 836.

From internal evidence, the book appears to have been written between 1812 and 1815. It is
printed in half-sheets, from sig. A to sig. 6 B, and three half-sheets are wanting, viz. E,
5 Q, and 5 R. In place of the last two, the following MS. note is inserted:

    "The speculations in the two following sheets included views that
    related to the disorganised state of Turkey, and the unhappy dependence
    of the Bourbon family; which are now, from the changes which have taken
    place, altogether unfit for publication."

The sole indication of the authorship which I have observed throughout the volume lies in the
following foot-note, at p. 893.:

    "This is all that seems to be necessary to say on the subject of
    education. In a treatise published by me a few years ago, entitled
    Improvements in Glasgow, I think I have exhausted," &c.[6]

The only treatise with such a title which I find in Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica is thus entered:

    "LAURIE, David. Proposed improvements in Glasgow. Glasg., 1810,
    8vo.--Hints regarding the East India Monopoly, 1813. 2s."

My Queries then are these:

1. Is anything known of such a treatise on "circulable wealth," &c., as that which I have named?

2. Is any biographical notice extant of the "David Laurie" mentioned by Watt?

I may add that the volume in question was recently purchased along with about 1000 other pamphlets
and books, chiefly on political economy: all of which appear to have formerly belonged to the
late Lord Bexley, and to have been for the most part collected by him when Chancellor of the
Exchequer.

E.

Old Trafford, near Manchester.

[Footnote 6: I find no mention of Mr. Laurie, or of his "Improvements in Glasgow," in Cleland's
Annals of Glasgow, published in 1816, nor is he mentioned in Mr. McCulloch's Literature of
Political Economy.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"DONATUS REDIVIVUS."

Can you, or any of your correspondents, give me any information relative to the history or
authorship of the following pamphlet?--

    "Donatus Redivivus: or a Reprimand to a modern Church-Schismatick, for
    his Revival of the Donatistical Heresy of Rebaptization, in Defiance to
    the Judgment and Practice of the Catholick Church, and of the Church of
    England in particular. In a Letter to Himself. London, 1714."

The same tract (precisely identical, except in the title-page) is also to be found with the
following title:

    "Rebaptization condemned. Wherein is shown, 1. That to Rebaptize any
    Person that was once Baptiz'd, even by Laymen, in the name of the
    Sacred Trinity, is contrary to the Practice of the Catholick Church in
    all Ages. 2. That it is repugnant to the Principles and Practice of the
    Church of England. 3. The Pernicious Consequences of such a Practice.
    By the Author of Plain Dealing, or Separation without Schism," &c.
    London, 1716.

I am aware that, according to Dr. Watt, the author of Plain Dealing was Charles Owen, D.D.,
but he makes no mention of Donatus Redivivus, and I am unable to discover any account of Dr.
Charles Owen or his writings elsewhere. There appears to have been a reply to Donatus Redivivus,
purporting to be from the pen of a Mrs. Jane Chorlton. This I have never seen, and have only
learned of its existence from a subsequent pamphlet with the following title:

    "The Amazon Disarm'd: or, the Sophisms of a Schismatical Pamphlet,
    pretendedly writ by a Gentlewoman, entituled An Answer to Donatus
    Redivivus, exposed and confuted; being a further Vindication of the
    Church of England from the scandalous imputation of Donatism or
    Rebaptization. London, 1714."

The dedication of this last tract begins as follows:

    "To the Reverend Mr. L--ter, and the Demi-reverend Mr. M--l--n.

    "Gentlemen,

    "This letter belongs to you upon a double account, as you were the
    chief Actors in the late Rebaptizaton, and are the supposed Vindicators
    of it, in the Answer to Donatus: a Treatise writ in Defence of the
    Sentiments of the Church, which you father upon a Dissenting Minister,
    and disingenuously point out to Mr. O----n by Name," &c.

The point which I wish particularly to ascertain is, whether Dr. Charles Owen was really the
{493} author of either of the tracts I have mentioned; and if so, who he was, and where I can
find an account of him and his writings.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Henry Scobell.--Henry Scobell, compiler of a well-known Collection of Acts, was for several
years clerk to the Long Parliament. I should be glad to learn what became of him after the
dissolution of that assembly.

A LEGULEIAN.

The Court House.--This place is situated in Painswick, in Gloucestershire, and has been described
to me as an old out-of-the-way place. Where can I meet with a full description of it? Is the
tradition that a king--supposed to be either the first or second Charles--ever slept there true?

F. M.

Ash-trees attract Lightning.--Is it true that ash-trees are more attractive to lightning than
any others? and the reason, because the surface of the ground around is drier than round other
trees?

C. S. W.

Symbol of Sow, &c.--A sow suckled by a litter of young pigs is a common representation carved
on the bosses of the roofs of churches. What is this symbolical of?

F. G. C.

Ottery St. Mary.

Will some of your readers give information respecting the above words in Italic?

D. N. O.

Rathband Family.--Can any of your readers assist me in distinguishing between the several members
of this clerical family, which flourished during the period of the Commonwealth, and immediately
preceding? From Palmer's Nonconformist Mem. (vol. i. p. 520.), there was a Mr. William Rathband,
M.A., ejected from Southwold, a member of Oxford University, who was brother to Mr. Rathband,
sometime preacher in the Minster of York, and son of an old Nonconformist minister, Mr. W.
Rathband, who wrote against the Brownists.--I should feel obliged by any information which
would identify them with the livings they severally held.

OLIVER.

Encaustic Tiles from Caen.--In the town of Caen, in Normandy, is an ancient Gothic building
standing in the grounds of the ancient convent of the Benedictines, now used as a college.
This building, which is commonly known as the "Salle des Gardes de Guillaume le Conquerant,"
was many years ago paved with glazed emblazoned earthenware tiles, which were of the dimensions
of about five inches square, and one and a quarter thick; the subjects of them are said to
be the arms of some of the chiefs who accompanied William the Conqueror to England. Some antiquaries
said these tiles were of the age of William I.; others that they could only date from Edward
III. I find it stated in the Gentleman's Magazine for March, 1789, vol. lix. p. 211., that
twenty of the tiles above spoken of were taken up by the Benedictine monks, and sent as a present
to Charles Chadwick, Esq., Healey Hall, Lancashire, in 1786. The rest of the tiles were destroyed
by the revolutionists, with the exception of some which were fortunately saved by the Abbé
de la Rue and M. P. A. Lair, of Caen. What I wish to inquire is, firstly, who was Charles Chadwick,
Esq.? and secondly, supposing that he is no longer living, which I think from the lapse of
time will be most probable, does any one know what became of the tiles which he had received
from France in 1786?

GEORGE BOASE.

P.S.--The Gentleman's Magazine gives a plate of these tiles, as well as a plate of some others
with which another ancient building, called "Grand Palais de Guillaume le Conquerant," was paved.

Alverton Vean, Penzance.

Artificial Drainage.--Can any of your correspondents refer me to a work, or works, giving a
history of draining marshes by machines for raising the water to a higher level? Windmills,
I suppose, were the first machines so used, but neither Beckmann nor Dugdale informs us when
first used. I have found one mentioned in a conveyance dated 1642, but they were much earlier.
Any information on the history of the drainage of the marshes near Great Yarmouth, of which
Dugdale gives passing notice only, would also be very acceptable to me.

E. G. R.

Storms at the Death of great Men.--Your correspondent at Vol. vi., p. 531., mentions "the storms
which have been noticed to take place at the time of the death of many great men known to our
history."

A list of these would be curious. With a passing reference to the familiar instance of the
Crucifixion, as connected with all history, we may note, as more strictly belonging to the
class, those storms that occurred at the deaths of "The Great Marquis" of Montrose, 21st May,
1650; Cromwell, 3rd September, 1658; Elizabeth Gaunt, who was burnt 23rd October, 1685, and
holds her reputation as the last female who suffered death for a political offence in England;
and Napoleon, 5th May, 1821; as well as that which solemnised {494} the burial of Sir Walter
Scott, 26th September, 1832.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

Motto or Wylcotes' Brass.--In the brass of Sir John Wylcotes, Great Tew Church, Oxfordshire,
the following motto occurs:

 "IN . ON . IS . AL."

I shall feel obliged if any one of your numerous correspondents will enlighten my ignorance
by explaining it to me.

W. B. D.

Lynn.

"Trail through the leaden sky," &c.--

 "Trail through the leaden sky their bannerets of fire."

Where is this line to be found, as applied to the spirits of the storm?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Lord Audley's Attendants at Poictiers.--According to the French historian Froissart, four knights
or esquires, whose names he does not supply, attended the brave Lord Audley at the memorable
battle of Poictiers, who, some English historians say, were Sir John Delves of Doddington,
Sir Thomas Dutton of Dutton, Sir Robert Fowlehurst of Crewe (all these places being in Cheshire),
and Sir John Hawkstone of Wrinehill in Staffordshire; whilst others name Sir James de Mackworth
of Mackworth in Derbyshire, and Sir Richard de Tunstall alias Sneyde of Tunstall in Staffordshire,
as two of such knights or esquires. The accuracy of Froissart as an historian has never been
questioned; and as he expressly names only four attendants on Lord Audley at the battle of
Poictiers, it is extremely desirable it should be ascertained if possible which of the six
above-named knights really were the companions of Lord Audley Froissart alludes to; and probably
some of your learned correspondents may be able to clear up the doubts on the point raised
by our historians.

T. J.

Worcester.

Roman Catholic Bible Society.--About the year 1812, or 1813, a Roman Catholic Bible Society
was established in London, in which Mr. Charles Butler, and many other leading gentlemen, took
a warm part. How long did it continue? Why was it dissolved? Did it publish any annual reports,
or issue any book or tract, besides an edition of the New Testament in 1815? Where can the
fullest account of it be found?

