It was, of course, to be expected that in pictures without action there should be little suggestion
of attention or of direction of movement. What is less evident is the reason for the high percentage
of I. Of course, figures do appear in many examples, and in most pictures some inanimate object
is emphasized--as, for instance, the mill in our second example.

   [16] A. Hildebrand, 'Das Problem der Form in der Bildenden
   Kunst,' Strassburg, 1897.

Another interesting observation concerns the use of water in landscapes. In nearly all appears
an expanse of water, and in four fifths of the cases it is either on the same side as the vista,
or in the same line with it. This is no doubt partly due to the light-effects which can be
got on the water, but it also greatly reinforces the peculiar effect of the vista. That effect,
as has been repeatedly said, is to concentrate, to hold, to fixate vision. The same thing is
true of the horizontal line, as was shown by some preliminary experiments not here reported.

A survey of the subject-types remaining on the list of page 514 shows that they may quite well
be grouped together with those already examined; that is, the Holy Families, Adorations, Crucifixions,
and Annunciations are very symmetrical in type, and present the same characteristics as the
Altarpieces. The Miscellaneous (mostly religious) pictures, the Descents, and the Allegorical
are, for the most part, freely composed, irregular, full of action, and resemble the genre
pictures. The Single Figure pictures, Religious, Allegorical and Genre, and the Portrait Groups,
resemble the portraits. Therefore, it may be considered that the existence of a perfect substitutional
symmetry has been established, inasmuch as it has been shown to be almost invariably present
in the types examined.

The experimental treatment of the isolated elements determined the particular function of each
in distributing attention in the field of view. The object of large size claims attention,
but does not rivet it nor draw it out powerfully; the intrinsically interesting object does
excite it, but limits it to a comparatively small field; the suggestion of movement or of attention
on the part of pictured objects carries the attention through the field of its operation; the
vista rivets the attention without powerfully exciting it, and the line extending in a certain
direction carries the attention in the same way as does the suggestion of movement.

The following table gives the distribution of the elements in the single-center pictures already
examined. The numbers represent the per cent. of the whole number of balanced pictures in which
the given element appears once or more.

    S.C.       Ms.    I.    D.    V.    L.

    Alt. p.    26    100    91    13    31
    Mad.       21    100    96    27    64
    Port.      80     63    98    17    61
    Genre      57     89    57    46    44
    Lands. But I. keeps
its predominance throughout the types, except in the portraits, where,
indeed, we should not expect it to be so powerful, since the principal
object of interest must always be the portrait head, and that is in
most cases in the Cn., and therefore not counted. Yet I. has a
respectable representation even in the portrait table, showing that
such objects as jewels, embroideries, beautiful hands, etc., count
largely too in composition. Its greatest is in the genre table, where,
of course, human interests constitute the subject matter.

It is among the portraits that the direction of suggestion is most operative. As remarked above,
the altarpieces and Madonna pictures, also largely without action, depend largely for it on
D., in the form of direction of attention (D. 91 per cent.).

The vista, as said above, rivets and confines the attention. (Cf. This neutralizing explains
why it has a comparatively small per cent. in the landscape table, it having appeared in minor
form all over the field, but less often in large salient outline. It is worth noticing that
for the D.C. of both genre and landscape, the per cent. drops appreciably.

B. Principles of Composition. But the natural motor response to stimulation has another characteristic
which belongs to us as individuals. The motor response must be balanced, but also unified.
In a picture, therefore, there must be a large outline in which all the elements are held together,
corresponding to this requirement of unity. Now this way of holding together, this manner of
combination, may vary; and I hope to show that it not only varies with the subject and purpose
of the picture, but bears a very close relation thereto--that, in short, it is what determines
the whole character of the picture. Just what this relation is will appear in the study of
our material.

The famous Bull of Paul Potter (149), in the Royal Museum at the Hague, furnishes a third type,
the diagonal. High on one side are grouped the herdsman, leaning on a tree which fills up the
sky on that side, and his three sheep and cow. The head of the bull is turned toward this side,
and his back and hind leg slope down to the other side, as the ground slopes away to a low
distant meadow. The picture is thus divided by an irregular diagonal.

It is, of course, not necessary at this point to show how it is that such an apparently unsymmetrical
shape as the diagonal, alone or in combination with other forms, nevertheless produces an effect
of balance. In all these cases of the diagonal type the mass or interest of the one side, or
the direction of subordinate lines backward to it, balances the impulse of the line descending
to the other side. The presence of balance or substitutional symmetry is taken for granted
in this treatment, having been previously established, and only the modifications of this symmetry
are under consideration.

Now, in order to deal properly with the question of the relation of the type of composition
to the subject of the picture, complete statistical information will be necessary. A table
of the pictures, classified by subjects and distributed under the heads of the six major types,
is accordingly subjoined.

                       Pyramid.         Double-Pyr.       Diagonal. Cross,   12    0    0       3    0    0       1    0    0
  Annunciations,      0    8    0       0    4    0       0    0    0
  Misc. Religious,   55   16    3       4    4    0      10    7    5
  Allegorical,       20    2    1       4    0    0       4    0    2
  Genre,             25    4    4       5    0    0      18    2    1
  Landscape,          8    2    1       3    0    0      25    6    0
  Port. Group,       20    4    2       9    0    0       3    3    2
  Rel. Single Fig.,  20    0    0       2    0    0       2    0    0
  Alleg.         Square.             Oval. Cross,    5    0    1       3    0    0       2    0    0
  Annunciations,      0    1    0       0    8    0       0    0    0
  Misc. Religious,   20   14    2       9   12    1       2    2    3
  Allegorical,        3    2    1       3    1    0       3    1    0
  Genre,             10    7    6       4    4    0       1    3    0
  Landscape,         20   12    0       4    0    0       5    2    0
  Port. Group,       10    7    1       0    3    0       0    0    0
  Rel. Single Fig.,   3    0    0       1    0    0       0    0    0
  Alleg.
Taking together, for instance, in two groups of five each, the first
ten classes in the table, we find that they fall to the six types in
the following proportion:

         P.     D.P.     Dg.     V.      Sq.     Ov.
   I.    66      13      05      13      03       0
  II.    43      07      14      20      12       04

Inasmuch as II. contains also many 'contemplative' pictures, while I. contains no 'active'
ones, the contrast between the proportions of the groups would really be sharper than the figures
indicate. But as it is, we see that the pyramid type is characteristic of the 'contemplative'
pictures in a much higher degree. If the closely allied double-pyramid type is taken with it,
we have 79 per cent of the 'contemplative' to 50 per cent, of the 'active' ones.

But is it not also characteristic of the 'active' pictures, since, as we see, it has the largest
representation in that class too? Perhaps it might be said that, inasmuch as all pictures are
really more 'quiet' than they are 'active,' so the type par excellence is the pyramidal--a
suggestion which is certainly borne out by the table as a whole. But setting aside for the
moment the pyramid and its sub-variety, we see that the diagonal V-shaped and square types
are much more numerous in the roughly outlined 'active' class. Taking, again, the genre class
as especially representative, we find 23 per cent. of the diagonal type, and 25 per cent. of
the V-shaped. We have seen how closely allied are these two types, and how gradually one passes
over into the other, so that we may for the nonce take them together as making up 47 per cent.
of the whole. The type of picture which expresses the highest degree of activity, which aims
to tell a story, has, then, for its characteristic type the V and its varieties.

                  P.    D.P.    Dg.    V.     Sq.    Or.
  Landscapes,     13     03     35     36     05     08

It is now necessary to ask what must be the interpretation of the use of these types of composition.
With it may be compared Titian's Presentation of the Virgin (107), also in the Academy, Venice.
The composition, from the figure moving upward to one high on the right, to the downward lines,
waiting groups and deep vista on the left, is almost identical with that of the Bordone. Neither
is pure diagonal--that is, it saves itself at last by an upward movement. It is worth remarking
that the perfect V, which is of course more regular, concentrated, quiet, than the diagonal,
is more frequent than the diagonal among the 'Miscellaneous Religious' pictures (that is, it
is more needed), since after all, as has been said, the final aim of all space composition
is just the attainment of repose. But the landscapes need energy, not repression; and so the
diagonal type is proportionately more numerous.

The square and oval types, as is seen from the table, are far less often used. The oval, most
infrequent of all, appears only among the 'active' pictures, with the exception of landscape.
It usually serves to unite a group of people among whom there is no one especially striking--or
the object of whose attention is in the center of the picture, as in the case of the Descent
from the Cross. It imparts a certain amount of movement, but an equable and regular one, as
the eye returns in an even sweep from one side to the other.

The square type, although only three per cent. of the whole number of pictures, suggests a
point of view which has already been touched on in the section on Primitive Art. The examples
fall into two classes: in the first, the straight lines across the picture are unrelieved by
the suggestion of any other type; in the second, the pyramid or V is suggested in the background
with more or less clearness by means of architecture or landscape. In the first class are found,
almost exclusively, early examples of Italian, Dutch and German art; in the second, pictures
of a later period. Compare also the Finding of the Cross, Piero della Francesca (1088), a serial
picture in two parts, with their respective backgrounds all on the same level; and most of
the frescoes by Giotto at Assisi--in particular St. Francis before the Sultan (1057), in which
the actors are divided into parties, so to speak. Interesting in connection with this is the
observation that, although the more anecdotal the picture the more likely it is to be 'double-centered,'
the later the picture the less likely it is to be double-centered. Thus the square and the
double-center composition seem often to be found in the same picture and to be, both, characteristic
of early composition. Compare also Madonna, Vitale di Bologna (157), in which the C. is almost
falling off M.'s arms to the right, her head is bent to the right, and a monk is kneeling at
the right lower corner; also Madonna, Ottaviano Nelli (175)--all very early pictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ÆSTHETICS OF UNEQUAL DIVISION.

BY ROSWELL PARKER ANGIER.

PART I.

The present paper reports the beginnings of an investigation designed to throw light on the
psychological basis of our æsthetic pleasure in unequal division. It is confined to horizontal
division. Owing to the prestige of the golden section, that is, of that division of the simple
line which gives a short part bearing the same ratio to the long part that the latter bears
to the whole line, experimentation of this sort has been fettered. Investigators have confined
their efforts to statistical records of approximations to, or deviations from, the golden section.
This exalts it into a possible æsthetic norm. But such a gratuitous supposition, by limiting
the inquiry to the verification of this norm, distorts the results, tempting one to forget
the provisional nature of the assumption, and to consider divergence from the golden section
as an error, instead of another example, merely, of unequal division. We have, as a matter
of fact, on one hand, investigations that do not verify the golden section, and, on the other
hand, a series of attempts to account for our pleasure in it, as if it were, beyond dispute,
the norm. In this way the statistical inquiries have been narrowed in scope, and interpretation
retarded and misdirected. Statistically our aim should be to ascertain within how wide limits
æsthetically pleasing unequal divisions fall; and an interpretative principle must be flexible
enough to include persistent variations from any hypothetical norm, unless they can be otherwise
accounted for. If it is not forced on us, we have, in either case, nothing to do with the golden
section.

Since Fechner, the chief investigation in the æsthetics of simple forms is that of Witmer,
in 1893.[1] Only a small part of his work relates to horizontal division, but enough to show
what seems to me a radical defect in statistical method, namely, that of accepting a general
average of the average judgments of the several subjects, as 'the most pleasing relation' or
'the most pleasing proportion.'[2] Such a total average may fall wholly without the range of
judgments of every subject concerned, and tells us nothing certain about the specific judgments
of any one. Even in the case of the individual subject, if he shows in the course of long experimentation
that he has two distinct sets of judgments, it is not valid to say that his real norm lies
between the two; much less when several subjects are concerned. If averages are data to be
psychophysically explained, they must fall well within actual individual ranges of judgment,
else they correspond to no empirically determinable psychophysical processes. Each individual
is a locus of possible æsthetic satisfactions. Since such a locus is our ultimate basis for
interpretation, it is inept to choose, as 'the most pleasing proportion,' one that may have
no correspondent empirical reference. The normal or ideal individual, which such a norm implies,
is not a psychophysical entity which may serve as a basis of explanation, but a mathematical
construction.

   [1] Witmer, Lightner: 'Zur experimentellen Aesthetik einfacher
   räumlicher Formverhältnisse,' Phil. Studien, 1893, IX., S.
   96-144, 209-263.

This criticism would apply to judgments of unequal division on either side the center of a
horizontal line. It would apply all the more to any general average of judgments including
both sides, for, as we shall soon see, the judgments of individuals differ materially on the
two sides, and this difference itself may demand its explanation. And if we should include
within this average, judgments above and below the center of a vertical line, we should have
under one heading four distinct sets of averages, each of which, in the individual cases, might
show important variations from the others, and therefore require some variation of explanation.
And yet that great leveller, the general average, has obliterated these vital differences,
and is recorded as indicating the 'most pleasing proportion.'[3] That such an average falls
near the golden section is immaterial. Witmer himself, as we shall see,[4] does not set much
store by this coincidence as a starting point for explanation, since he is averse to any mathematical
interpretation, but he does consider the average in question representative of the most pleasing
division.

   [2] op. cit., 212-215.

   [3] Witmer: op. cit., S. 212-215.

   [4] op. cit., S. 262.

I shall now, before proceeding to the details of the experiment to be recorded, review, very
briefly, former interpretative tendencies. Zeising found that the golden section satisfied
his demand for unity and infinity in the same beautiful object.[5] In the golden section, says
Wundt,[6] there is a unity involving the whole; it is therefore more beautiful than symmetry,
according to the æsthetic principle that that unification of spatial forms which occurs without
marked effort, which, however, embraces the greater manifold, is the more pleasing. But to
me this manifold, to be æsthetic, must be a sensible manifold, and it is still a question whether
the golden section set of relations has an actual correlate in sensations. Witmer,[7] however,
wrote, at the conclusion of his careful researches, that scientific æsthetics allows no more
exact statement, in interpretation of the golden section, than that it forms 'die rechte Mitte'
between a too great and a too small variety. Nine years later, in 1902, he says[8] that the
preference for proportion over symmetry is not a demand for an equality of ratios, but merely
for greater variety, and that 'the amount of unlikeness or variety that is pleasing will depend
upon the general character of the object, and upon the individual's grade of intelligence and
æsthetic taste.' Külpe[9] sees in the golden section 'a special case of the constancy of the
relative sensible discrimination, or of Weber's law.' The division of a line at the golden
section produces 'apparently equal differences' between minor and major, and major and whole.
It is 'the pleasingness of apparently equal differences.'

   [5] Zelsing, A.: 'Aesthetische Forschungen,' 1855, S. 172;
   'Neue Lehre von den Proportionen des menschlichen Körpera,'
   1854, S. 133-174.

   [6] Wundt, W.: 'Physiologische Psychologie,' 4te Aufl.,
   Leipzig, 1893, Bd. II., S. 240 ff.

   [7] op. cit., S. 262.

   [8] Witmer, L.: 'Analytical Psychology,' Boston, 1902, p. 74.

   [9] Külpe, O.: 'Outlines of Psychology,' Eng. Trans., London,
   1895, pp. 253-255.

These citations show, in brief form, the history of the interpretation of our pleasure in unequal
division. Zeising and Wundt were alike in error in taking the golden section as the norm. Zeising
used it to support a philosophical theory of the beautiful. Wundt and others too hastily conclude
that the mathematical ratios, intellectually discriminated, are also sensibly discriminated,
and form thus the basis of our æsthetic pleasure. An extension of this principle would make
our pleasure in any arrangement of forms depend on the mathematical relations of their parts.
We should, of course, have no special reason for choosing one set of relationships rather than
another, nor for halting at any intricacy of formulæ. But we cannot make experimental æsthetics
a branch of applied mathematics. A theory, if we are to have psychological explanation at all,
must be pertinent to actual psychic experience. Witmer, while avoiding and condemning mathematical
explanation, does not attempt to push interpretation beyond the honored category of unity in
variety, which is applicable to anything, and, in principle, is akin to Zeising's unity and
infinity. We wish to know what actual psychophysical functionings correspond to this unity
in variety. Külpe's interpretation is such an attempt, but it seems clear that Weber's law
cannot be applied to the division at the golden section. It would require of us to estimate
the difference between the long side and the short side to be equal to that of the long side
and the whole. A glance at the division shows that such complex estimation would compare incomparable
facts, since the short and the long parts are separated, while the long part is inclosed in
the whole. Besides, such an interpretation could not apply to divisions widely variant from
the golden section.

This paper, as I said, reports but the beginnings of an investigation into unequal division,
confined as it is to results obtained from the division of a simple horizontal line, and to
variations introduced as hints towards interpretation. The tests were made in a partially darkened
room. The apparatus rested on a table of ordinary height, the part exposed to the subject consisting
of an upright screen, 45 cm. high by 61 cm. broad, covered with black cardboard, approximately
in the center of which was a horizontal opening of considerable size, backed by opal glass.
Between the glass and the cardboard, flush with the edges of the opening so that no stray light
could get through, a cardboard slide was inserted from behind, into which was cut the exposed
figure. A covered electric light illuminated the figure with a yellowish-white light, so that
all the subject saw, besides a dim outline of the apparatus and the walls of the room, was
the illuminated figure. An upright strip of steel, 1½ mm. wide, movable in either direction
horizontally by means of strings, and controlled by the subject, who sat about four feet in
front of the table, divided the horizontal line at any point. On the line, of course, this
appeared as a movable dot. The line itself was arbitrarily made 160 mm. long, and 1½ mm. wide.
The subject was asked to divide the line unequally at the most pleasing place, moving the divider
from one end slowly to the other, far enough to pass outside any pleasing range, or, perhaps,
quite off the line; then, having seen the divider at all points of the line, he moved it back
to that position which appealed to him as most pleasing. Record having been made of this, by
means of a millimeter scale, the subject, without again going off the line, moved to the pleasing
position on the other side of the center. He then moved the divider wholly off the line, and
made two more judgments, beginning his movement from the other end of the line. These four
judgments usually sufficed for the simple line for one experiment. In the course of the experimentation
each of nine subjects gave thirty-six such judgments on either side the center, or seventy-two
in all.

In Fig. 1, I have represented graphically the results of these judgments. The letters at the
left, with the exception of X, mark the subjects. Beginning with the most extreme judgments
on either side the center, I have erected modes to represent the number of judgments made within
each ensuing five millimeters, the number in each case being denoted by the figure at the top
of the mode. The two vertical dot-and-dash lines represent the means of the several averages
of all the subjects, or the total averages. The short lines, dropped from each of the horizontals,
mark the individual averages of the divisions either side the center, and at X these have been
concentrated into one line. Subject E obviously shows two pretty distinct fields of choice,
so that it would have been inaccurate to condense them all into one average. I have therefore
given two on each side the center, in each case subsuming the judgments represented by the
four end modes under one average. In all, sixty judgments were made by E on each half the line.
Letter E¹ represents the first thirty-six; E² the full number. A comparison of the two shows
how easily averages shift; how suddenly judgments may concentrate in one region after having
been for months fairly uniformly distributed. The introduction of one more subject might have
varied the total averages by several points. Table I. shows the various averages and mean variations
in tabular form.

TABLE I.
                         Left.            Right.
                      Div.  M.V.        Div.   M.V.
        A      54    2.6         50     3.4
        B      46    4.5         49     5.7
        C      75    1.8         71     1.6
        D      62    4.4         56     4.1
        E¹     57   10.7         60     8.7
        F      69    2.6         69     1.6
        G      65    3.7         64     2.7
        H      72    3.8         67     2.1
        J      46    1.9         48     1.3
                 --    ---         --     ---
Total            60    3.9         59     3.5

Golden Section = 61.1.

    ¹These are E's general averages on 36 judgments. Fig. 1,
    however, represents two averages on each side the center, for
    which the figures are, on the left, 43 with M.V. 3.6; and 66
    with M.V. 5.3. On the right, 49, M.V. 3.1; and 67, M.V. 2.7.
    For the full sixty judgments, his total average was 63 on the
    left, and 65 on the right, with mean variations of 9.8 and 7.1
    respectively. The four that E² in Fig. 1 shows graphically
    were, for the left, 43 with M.V. 3.6; and 68, M.V. 5.1. On the
    right, 49, M.V. 3.1; and 69, M.V. 3.4.

Results such as are given in Fig. 1, appear to warrant the criticism of former experimentation.
Starting with the golden section, we find the two lines representing the total averages running
surprisingly close to it. This line, however, out of a possible eighteen chances, only twice
(subjects D and G) falls wholly within the mode representing the maximum number of judgments
of any single subject. In six cases (C twice, F, H, J twice) it falls wholly without any mode
whatever; and in seven (A, B twice, E, F, G, H) within modes very near the minimum. Glancing
for a moment at the individual averages, we see that none coincides with the total (although
D is very near), and that out of eighteen, only four (D twice, G twice) come within five millimeters
of the general average, while eight (B, C, J twice each, F, H) lie between ten and fifteen
millimeters away. The two total averages (although near the golden section), are thus chiefly
conspicuous in showing those regions of the line that were avoided as not beautiful. Within
a range of ninety millimeters, divided into eighteen sections of five millimeters each, there
are ten such sections (50 mm.) each of which represents the maximum of some one subject. The
range of maximum judgments is thus about one third the whole line. From such wide limits it
is, I think, a methodological error to pick out some single point, and maintain that any explanation
whatever of the divisions there made interprets adequately our pleasure in unequal division.
Can, above all, the golden section, which in only two cases (D, G) falls within the maximum
mode; in five (A, C, F, J twice) entirely outside all modes, and in no single instance within
the maximum on both sides the center--can this seriously play the role of æsthetic norm?

I may state here, briefly, the results of several sets of judgments on lines of the same length
as the first but wider, and on other lines of the same width but shorter. There were not enough
judgments in either case to make an exact comparison of averages valuable, but in three successively
shorter lines, only one subject out of eight varied in a constant direction, making his divisions,
as the line grew shorter, absolutely nearer the ends. He himself felt, in fact, that he kept
about the same absolute position on the line, regardless of the successive shortenings, made
by covering up the ends. This I found to be practically true, and it accounts for the increasing
variation toward the ends. Further, with all the subjects but one, two out of three pairs of
averages (one pair for each length of line) bore the same relative positions to the center
as in the normal line. That is, if the average was nearer the center on the left than on the
right, then the same held true for the smaller lines. Not only this. With one exception, the
positions of the averages of the various subjects, when considered relatively to one another,
stood the same in the shorter lines, in two cases out of three. In short, not only did the
pair of averages of each subject on each of the shorter lines retain the same relative positions
as in the normal line, but the zone of preference of any subject bore the same relation to
that of any other. Such approximations are near enough, perhaps, to warrant the statement that
the absolute length of line makes no appreciable difference in the æsthetic judgment. In the
wider lines the agreement of the judgments with those of the normal line was, as might be expected,
still closer. In these tests only six subjects were used. As in the former case, however, E
was here the exception, his averages being appreciably nearer the center than in the original
line. But his judgments of this line, taken during the same period, were so much on the central
tack that a comparison of them with those of the wider lines shows very close similarity. The
following table will show how E's judgments varied constantly towards the center:

                                                            AVERAGE.
                                                             L.   R.
  1. Twenty-one judgments (11 on L. and 10 on R.) during
  experimentation on I¹, I², etc., but not on same days.   64   65

  2. Twenty at different times, but immediately before
   judging on I¹, I², etc.                                 69   71

  3. Eighteen similar judgments, but immediately after
  judging on I¹, I², etc.                                  72   71

  4. Twelve taken after all experimentation with I¹,
  I², etc., had ceased.                                    71   69

The measurements are always from the ends of the line. It looks as if the judgments in (3)
were pushed further to the center by being immediately preceded by those on the shorter and
the wider lines, but those in (1) and (2) differ markedly, and yet were under no such influences.

From the work on the simple line, with its variations in width and length, these conclusions
seem to me of interest. (1) The records offer no one division that can be validly taken to
represent 'the most pleasing proportion' and from which interpretation may issue. (2) With
one exception (E) the subjects, while differing widely from one another in elasticity of judgment,
confined themselves severally to pretty constant regions of choice, which hold, relatively,
for different lengths and widths of line. (3) Towards the extremities judgments seldom stray
beyond a point that would divide the line into fourths, but they approach the center very closely.
Most of the subjects, however, found a slight remove from the center disagreeable. (4) Introspectively
the subjects were ordinarily aware of a range within which judgments might give equal pleasure,
although a slight disturbance of any particular judgment would usually be recognized as a departure
from the point of maximum pleasingness. This feeling of potential elasticity of judgment, combined
with that of certainty in regard to any particular instance, demands--when the other results
are also kept in mind--an interpretative theory to take account of every judgment, and forbids
it to seize on an average as the basis of explanation for judgments that persist in maintaining
their æsthetic autonomy.

I shall now proceed to the interpretative part of the paper. Bilateral symmetry has long been
recognized as a primary principle in æsthetic composition. We inveterately seek to arrange
the elements of a figure so as to secure, horizontally, on either side of a central point of
reference, an objective equivalence of lines and masses. At one extreme this may be the rigid
mathematical symmetry of geometrically similar halves; at the other, an intricate system of
compensations in which size on one side is balanced by distance on the other, elaboration of
design by mass, and so on. Physiologically speaking, there is here a corresponding equality
of muscular innervations, a setting free of bilaterally equal organic energies. Introspection
will localize the basis of these in seemingly equal eye movements, in a strain of the head
from side to side, as one half the field is regarded, or the other, and in the tendency of
one half the body towards a massed horizontal movement, which is nevertheless held in check
by a similar impulse, on the part of the other half, in the opposite direction, so that equilibrium
results. The psychic accompaniment is a feeling of balance; the mind is æsthetically satisfied,
at rest. And through whatever bewildering variety of elements in the figure, it is this simple
bilateral equivalence that brings us to æsthetic rest. If, however, the symmetry is not good,
if we find a gap in design where we expected a filling, the accustomed equilibrium of the organism
does not result; psychically there is lack of balance, and the object is æsthetically painful.
We seem to have, then, in symmetry, three aspects. First, the objective quantitative equality
of sides; second, a corresponding equivalence of bilaterally disposed organic energies, brought
into equilibrium because acting in opposite directions; third, a feeling of balance, which
is, in symmetry, our æsthetic satisfaction.

