THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 20 No. 572.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRTHPLACE OF DR. JOHNSON, AT LICHFIELD.

In the large corner house, on the right of the Engraving, SAMUEL
JOHNSON was born on the 18th of September, N.S. 1709. Mag.
        Oct. 1791.

    [3] Boswell, vol. i. p. 14. It does not appear whether he offended again,
        but here is sufficient cause of his son's animosity
        against commissioners of excise, and of the allusion in
        the Dictionary to the special jurisdiction under which
        that revenue is administered. Johnson was the elder of two sons, the younger of whom died
in his infancy. (Boswell.) His last visit was in his
75th year when he writes to Boswell:--"I came to Lichfield, and found
every body glad enough to see me."

The annexed view is of the date 1785, being from the first volume of the Gentleman's Magazine
for that year. The building to the extreme left is part of the market-cross, erected by dean
Denton, but replaced some years since by a light brick building. The church is that of St.
Mary, one of the three parishes into which Lichfield is divided: it is a modern structure,
of the year 1717, and upon the site of the original church, said to have been founded in the
year 885. In the extreme distance of the Engraving is seen the Guild or Town Hall, a neat stone
edifice, adorned with the city arms, a bas-relief of the cathedral, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLASSICAL ANECDOTES OF CONTINENCE IN MAN.

Many noble instances are recorded by ancient historians of the practice of this noble virtue;
but in the reminiscences of our youthful studies, there is no incident that occurs with more
freshness to the memory than that of the continence of Scipio Africanus, related by Livy. It
appears that the soldiers of Scipio's army, after the taking of new Carthage, brought before
him a young lady of great beauty. Scipio inquiring concerning her country and parents, ascertained
that she was betrothed to Allutius, prince of the Celtiberians. He immediately ordered her
parents and bridegroom to be sent for. In the meantime he was informed that the young prince
was so excessively enamoured of his bride, that he could not survive the loss of her. For this
reason, as soon as he appeared, and before he spoke to her parents, he took great care to talk
with him. "As you and I are both young," said he, "we can converse together with greater freedom.
When your bride, who had fallen into the hands of my soldiers, was brought before me, I was
informed that you loved her passionately; and, in truth, her perfect beauty left me no room
to doubt of it. If I were at liberty to indulge a youthful passion--I mean honourable and lawful
wedlock, and were not solely engrossed by the affairs of my republic, I might have hoped to
have been pardoned my excessive love for so charming a mistress; but as I am situated, and
have it in my power, with pleasure I promote your happiness. Your future spouse has met with
as civil and modest treatment from me, as if she had been amongst her own parents, who are
soon to be yours too. I have kept her pure, in order to have it in my power to make you a present
worthy of you and of me." The magnanimity of his behaviour did not close here, for when the
parents of the fair captive brought an immense sum of money to ransom her, they were much surprised
at Scipio's noble conduct, and in the ecstacy of joy and gratitude, they pressed him to accept
it as a token of thankfulness. Scipio, unable to resist their importunate solicitations, told
them he accepted it; but ordering it to be laid at his feet, he thus addressed Allutius:--"To
the portion you are to receive from your father-in-law, I add this, and beg you would accept
it as a nuptial present:" thus exhibiting in the whole transaction a rare instance of modesty,
disinterestedness, and benevolence, well worthy of imperishable record, as a moral lesson for
mankind.

When Araspes had commended the fair Panthea to Cyrus, as a beauty worthy his admiration, he
replied--"For that very reason I will not see her, lest if by thy persuasion I should see her
but once, she herself might persuade me to see her often, and spend more time with her than
would be for the advantage of my own affairs."--Alexander the Great would not trust his eyes
in the presence of the beauteous Queen of Persia, but kept himself out of the reach of her
charms, and treated only with her aged mother. These, as they were peculiar acts of continence,
so were they as absolutely checks of curiosity, which never sleeps in youthful breasts when
beauty elicits admiration.

Cicero, treating of the many degrees of human commerce and society, places matrimony in the
first rank. In fact, marriage is not only a state capable of the highest human felicity, but
it is an institution well calculated to destroy those rank and noxious weeds of the passions
which, by their pestiferous influence, spread misery and death around the social hemisphere.
Marriage is the basis of community, and the cement of society;--it is, or ought to be, that
state of perfect friendship in which there are, according to Pythagoras, "two bodies with but
one soul." It is in the genial atmosphere of this noble communion of sentiment and affection
that the virtue of continence comes forth in all its dazzling splendour.

J.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT LORD THURLOW.

Of the eloquence of Lord Thurlow, and of his manner in debate, Mr. Butler has given a striking
account:--"At times Lord Thurlow was superlatively great. It was the good fortune of the Reminiscent
to hear his celebrated reply to the Duke of Grafton, during the inquiry into Lord Sandwich's
administration of Greenwich Hospital. His Grace's action and delivery, when he addressed the
house, were singularly dignified and graceful; but his matter was not equal to his manner.
He reproached Lord Thurlow with his plebeian extraction, and his recent admission into the
peerage: particular circumstances caused Lord Thurlow's reply to make a deep impression on
the Reminiscent. His lordship had spoken too often, and began to be heard with a civil but
visible impatience. Under these circumstances he was attacked in the manner we have mentioned.
He rose from the woolsack, and advanced slowly to the place from which the chancellor generally
addresses the house; then fixing on the duke the look of Jove when he grasps the thunder, 'I
am amazed,' he said, in a level tone of voice, 'at the attack the noble duke has made on me.
It gave Lord Thurlow an ascendancy in the house which no chancellor had ever possessed: it
invested him, in public opinion, with a character of independence and honour; and this, though
he was ever on the unpopular side in politics, made him always popular with the people."

The legal talents and acquirements of Lord Thurlow have been the subject of frequent panegyric;
but it may, perhaps, be questioned, whether in all cases those eulogiums were just. It has
been said--but with what truth it is difficult to form an opinion--that his lordship was much
indebted to Mr. Hargrave, for the learning by which his judgments were sometimes distinguished,
and that Mr. Hargrave received a handsome remuneration for these services. "As lord chancellor,"
says a writer who was personally acquainted with his lordship, "from a well-placed confidence
in Mr. Hargrave, who was indefatigable in his service, he had occasion to give himself less
trouble than any other man in that high station. An old free-speaking companion of his, well
known at Lincoln's Inn, would sometimes say to me, 'I met the great law lion this morning going
to Westminster; but he was so busily reading in the coach what his provider had supplied him
with, that he took no notice of me.'"

The ardent zeal with which Lord Thurlow contested the great question of the regency, led him,
if we may credit the narrative of one who was a party to the debate, to be guilty of an act
of great disingenuousness. Dr. Watson, the Bishop of Llandaff, in the course of a speech, in
which he supported the claims of the Prince of Wales, incidentally cited a passage from Grotius,
with regard to the definition of the word right. "The chancellor, in his reply," says the bishop
in his memoirs, "boldly asserted that he perfectly well remembered the passage I had quoted
from Grotius, and that it solely respected natural, but was inapplicable to civil, rights.
Lord Loughborough, the first time I saw him after the debate, assured me that before he went
to sleep that night he had looked into Grotius, and was astonished to find that the chancellor,
in contradicting me, had presumed on the ignorance of the house, and that my quotation was
perfectly correct. What miserable shifts do great men submit to, in supporting their parties!
The Chancellor Thurlow," continues the bishop, "was an able and upright judge, but as the speaker
of the house of lords, he was domineering and insincere. It was said of him, that in the cabinet
he opposed everything, proposed nothing, and was ready to support anything. I remember Lord
Camden's saying to me one night, when the chancellor was speaking contrary, as he thought,
to his own conviction, 'There now! I could not do that: he is supporting what he does not believe
a word of.'"

Roscoe's Lives of Eminent Lawyers--Cabinet Cyclopaedia.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TORCHLIGHT.

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"PROGRESS" OF CHARLES II. AND HIS COURT.

The accompanying memorandum relative to Charles II. and his Court, is copied from an old Family
Prayer Book, and from the date of the book, (?) and appearance of the writing, there is little
doubt of its authenticity.

W.H.

"King Charles the Second, with his Queen Katharine, the Duke of York, and his Duchess, and
Prince Rupert, the Duke of Monmouth, and many others of the nobility did lodge in Wickomb,
the 30th day of September, in the yeare 1663. They did come into the town about 4 of the clock
the same day. They came from Oxford. The King in his progress going back again to London. The
King did go out of the town between v and vi of the clock the next morning, and was at his
palace at Whitehall before 9 of the clock in the morning. The Queen did go out about viii of
the clock, and dined at Uxbridge, and then went to Whitehall. The King was lodged with his
Queen at the Catharine Wheel."

       *       *       *       *       *

FAT LIVING.

The vicarage of Wyburn, or Winsburn, Cumberland, is of the following tempting value: Fifty
shilling per annum, a new surplice, a pair of clogs, and feed on the common for one goose.
This favoured church preferment is in the midst of a wild country, inhabited by shepherds.
The clerk keeps a pot-house opposite the church. The service is once a fortnight; and when
there is no congregation, the Vicar and Moses regale themselves at the bar.

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAD ALE.

In the time of the Saxons, it was a custom in the city of Chester, that any person who brewed
bad ale should either be placed in a ducking-chair, and plunged into a pool of muddy water,
or, in lieu of that punishment, should forfeit four shillings.

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT TRADESMEN.

In Domesday Book we find frequent mention of goldsmiths; and we know the Anglo-Saxons had their
goldsmiths, silversmiths, and coppersmiths. Bowyers, or makers of cross-bows, are frequently
mentioned--as are carpenters, potters, bakers, and brewers, the last of which were chiefly
women. Both war and agriculture want the smith: hence his importance among the Saxons. They
were free from all other services, on payment of a penny yearly for their forge. We also meet
with butchers, barbers, embroiderers, saddlers, parchment-makers, and salt-makers.

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHYSICIANS' FEES.

In a book called Levamen Infirmi, written in 1700, the usual fees to physicians and surgeons
at that time are thus stated:--"To a graduate in physic, his due is about 10s., though he commonly
expects, or demands, 20s. Those that are only licensed physicians, their due is no more than
6s. 9d., though they commonly demand 10s. A surgeon's journey is 12d. a mile, be his journey
far or near. Ten groats to set a bone broke, or out of joint; and for letting of blood, 1s.
The cutting off or amputation of any limb is 5l., but there is no settled price for the cure."

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVIL OMEN.

In the journals of the House of Commons, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, appears the following
entry:--"This day a black raven came into the House, which was considered as malum omen."

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

HENRY VIII. AND QUEEN KATHERINE.

The following letter was sent by Queen Katherine to Henry VIII., after she was put away by
that prince, to make room for Anne Boleyn. It was written from Kimbolton, in Huntingdonshire,
to which place Katherine repaired after the divorce. It is dated 29th January, 1536. The bull
for the divorce, bearing date 1529, is to be found in the Life of Henry VIII., written by Lord
Herbert of Cherbury, 1649.

J.F.

Gray's Inn.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPEED AND DIET OF THE OSTRICH.

In the Annals of Sporting it is observed:--"If we are to place confidence in traveller's tales,
the ostrich is swifter than the Arabian horse. During the residence of Mr. Adamson at Pador,
a French factory on the south side of the river Niger, he says that two ostriches, which had
been about two years in the factory, afforded him a sight of a very extraordinary nature. These
gigantic birds, though young, were of nearly the full size. They were (he continues) so tame,
that two little blacks mounted both together on the back of the larger. This burden did not
seem at all disproportioned to their strength.

The following interesting particulars, relating to the capability of the ostrich to digest
hard substances, is given by Mr. Fuller, in his Tour of the Turkish Empire:--"An ostrich, belonging
to an English gentleman, arrived at Cairo from Upper Egypt, and afforded us an opportunity
of observing this curious peculiarity in the natural history of that animal. The persons in
charge of him observing his great propensity for hard substances, mistook, unfortunately, for
his natural and ordinary diet, things that were only the objects of his luxury; and while they
gave him corn only occasionally, administered every day a certain portion of iron, chiefly
in the form of nails, to which he occasionally added a knife or a razor, which he chanced to
pick up, or a few loose buttons, which he pulled from the coats of his attendants. This metallic
system did not however succeed; the poor bird drooped gradually, his strength just lasted him
to walk with a stately step into the court of the Consulate, and he died in about an hour afterwards.
On a post mortem examination, at which I was present, about three pounds of iron were taken
from his stomach. A considerable portion of the hardest parts, such as the blades of the knives
and razor, was dissolved; and it is possible that the whole might in time have been digested,
as the death of the animal was in part accidental, being immediately occasioned by a sharp
boat-builder's nail, three or four inches long, which he had swallowed, and which had penetrated
quite through the stomach, and produced mortification."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

EFFECTS OF LIGHT AND AIR ON PLANTS.

The importance of light and air to plants is well known. When unassisted by these agents, plants
lose their colour, and are deprived of many of their properties. Colour is thus evidently produced
by the absorption of carbonic acid gas: and the colouring matter may be detected by a powerful
microscope, lodged in the cellular substance of the leaf. How this colour is formed, and why
it assumes different tints in different plants, are, however, questions which it is at present
impossible to decide. The secretions of plants depend upon light, and their flavour and nutritious
qualities are materially altered by their exclusion from it. The importance of this knowledge
to a practical horticulturist is proved by the fact, that sea-kale, so well known as a wholesome
and palatable vegetable, is not eatable in its original state; and that any part of the cultivated
plant, if accidentally left exposed to the action of the air and light, becomes tough, and
so strong in flavour as to be extremely unpleasant to the taste. Celery, also, in its native
state, is poisonous; and it is only the parts that are blanched that are perfectly fitted for
the table. Though colour is generally supposed to depend principally on the plant's being exposed
to the light, some portion of colouring matter appears to be occasionally absorbed by the root.
This colouring substance is, however, never a deep green. Red and yellow, as may be seen in
forced rhubarb, &c., are the most common hues. Succulent plants are less susceptible of the
influence of light than any others. As they are always natives of hot countries, nature, to
prevent the danger they would be exposed to from excessive evaporation, has provided them with
leaves almost destitute of pores; and the moisture they absorb by their roots thus remains
for the nourishment of the plant. It is for this reason that cactuses, mesembryanthemums, and
other plants of a similar description, require very little water when kept in pots. Scarcely
any carbon is found in plants grown in the dark. Many experiments have been tried to show the
stimulus afforded to vegetation by light; trees of the same species and variety have been planted
in the same garden and the same soil, but against walls with different aspects, and differently
situated with regard to shade. The effect has been, not only a difference in the growth and
appearance of the tree, but also in the size, colour, and flavour of the fruit which it produced.
The contrast between plants grown in hot-houses with wooden sash frames, and those grown in
hot-houses with iron sash-frames, has been found equally striking; the difference of light
between the two kinds of houses being as seven to twenty-seven, or, sometimes, as three to
twenty-three. Light is required at an early period of vegetation; but, as its properties are
to give strength and flavour, it must be admitted with caution, as it is sometimes injurious.
Too much light renders the skin of fruits tough, and will make cucumbers bitter. Bérard of
Montpelier found that the ripening of fruits is merely the turning the acid which they contain
into sugar, by exposure to the light; and that too much light and heat, before they have attained
their proper size, will bring on premature ripening, and make them insipid.

Lindley's Lectures, reported in the Gardeners' Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLANTS IN ROOMS.

It is very difficult to make plants grow in rooms. They must necessarily be deficient in the
three important auxiliaries to vegetable life, light, air, and moisture; the latter of which
cannot be maintained in apartments that are daily occupied. In large towns, plants cannot thrive
even in the open air, as the minute particles of soot, which are constantly floating about,
settle upon their leaves, and choke up their pores. The gases produced by the combustion of
coal, &c., are also injurious to plants. Sulphurous acid, which abounds in the atmosphere of
London, turns the leaves yellow; and the want of evaporation and absorption by the leaves prevents
the proper elaboration of the sap, and makes the trees stunted and unproductive.

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHLAMYPHORUS.

In our account of the Nine-banded Armadillo, at page 57 of the present volume, we noticed the
curious fact of the whole series of armadillos offering a notable example of one genus being
confined to a particular country, viz. South America; of their standing perfectly insulated,
and exhibiting all the characters of a creation entirely distinct, and, except as to the general
character of mammiferous quadrupeds, perfectly of its own kind.

The nearest resemblance to the armadillo is, we believe, to be traced in a very curious little
quadruped which is occasionally to be seen in the district of Cuyo, at the foot of the Andes,
on the eastern side. The first instance of its being brought to Europe was a specimen preserved
in spirit, which was added to the Museum of the Zoological Society, about four years since,
by the Hon. Capt. Percy, R.N. who received it from Woodbine Parish, Esq. British consul at
Buenos Ayres. It had been previously known only by the figures and description given by Dr.
Harlan, in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. His specimen was, however,
deprived of the skeleton and internal parts, which are perfect in the specimen, in one of the
lower rooms of the Museum in Bruton-street. It is called the Chlamyphorus, and may be said
to unite the habits of the mole with the appearance of the armadillo. Its upper parts and sides
are defended by a coat, or rather cloak, of mail, of a coriaceous nature, but exceeding in
inflexibility sole-leather of equal thickness. This cloak does not adhere, like that of the
armadillo, to the whole surface, occupying the place of the skin--but is applied over the skin
and fur, forming an additional covering, which is attached only along the middle of the back
and on the head. The hinder parts of the animal are also protected by it, to cover which, it
is suddenly bent downwards at nearly a right angle. The tail is short, and is directed forwards
along the under surface of the body. Owing to the rigidity of the case which so nearly encloses
the animal, its motions must be limited almost entirely to those of mere progression, and even
for these, the structure of its fore-feet is ill suited. The anterior limbs are, indeed, scarcely
fitted for any other purpose than that of burrowing. For this operation, the long and broad
claws with which they are furnished are truly admirably adapted; and their sharp points and
cutting lower edges must materially assist in clearing through the entangled roots which the
animal may encounter in its subterranean travels. Its teeth resemble those of the sloth more
nearly than any other animal's; and it seems to represent, beneath the earth, that well-known
and singular inhabitant of trees--for its motions, so far as can be conjectured from its conformation,
must also be executed with extreme slowness.

The dimensions of the specimen in the Museum are as follow: length from tip of nose to root
of tail, 5-1/2 inches; ditto tail, 1-1/4 in.; height at shoulder, 1-3/4 in. A more detailed
account of the internal structure and economy of this extraordinary little animal will be found
in the Zoological Journal, vols. ii. and iii.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARROW ROOT.

[Mr. Andrew Mathews, of Lima, has communicated to the Gardeners' Magazine the following account
of the Otaheitan method of preparing the excellent farinaceous substance termed Arrow Root,
so extensively used in this country.]

The root (Tacca pinnatifida Lin., the Pea of the natives) grows in the greatest abundance in
all the islands which we visited; viz., in Otaheite, Eimeo, Huaheine, Raiatea, and Otaha. Its
favourite situation is on the sides and ridges of the hills which rise directly from the sea,
and which are generally covered with a coarse grass, on a red sandy loam. The root is round,
white, smooth, full of eyes like a potato, and from 2 to 3 in. in diameter. The flower-stem
rises directly from the root, simple; from 2 to 4 ft. in height, as thick as a man's finger,
bearing its flowers in a loose simple umbel on the summit; and, when large and full blown,
it presents a beautiful and delicate appearance. The leaf is large, tri-pinnatifid, segments
acute, of a rich shining green: it is subject to great variation in the size of the segments,
some leaves being much more cut, and having the segments narrower, than others. When a sufficient
quantity of the roots is collected, they are taken to a running stream, or to the sea-beach,
and washed; the outer skin is carefully scraped off at the same time with a shell; and those
who are particular in the preparation scrape out even the eyes. The root is then reduced to
a pulp, by rubbing it up and down a kind of rasp, made as follows:--A piece of board, about
3 in. wide, and 12 ft. long, is procured, upon which some coarse twine, made of the fibres
of the cocoa nut husk, is tightly and regularly wound, and which affords an admirable substitute
for a coarse rasp. The starch is allowed to settle for a few days; the water is then strained,
or, more properly, poured off, and the sediment rewashed with fresh (or river) water. This
washing is repeated three times with spring water; after which the deposit is made into balls
of about 7 or 8 in. in diameter, and in this state dried in the sun for twelve or twenty-four
hours. The balls are then broken, and the powder spread for some days in the sun to dry; after
which it is carefully wrapped in tapa (the native cloth), and put into baskets, and hung up
in the houses. The natural indolence of the people is so great, and their avarice such, that
but few of them will give the arrow-root sufficient time to dry, if they have an opportunity
of parting with it, which I suspect was the case with that sent to England some few years back
by the missionaries. So abundant is the root, that several tons might be prepared annually
by proper management: as it is, there is a considerable quantity prepared; it being not only
eaten by the natives and strangers on the island, but also by the crews of the vessels that
touch there.

At present, when the roots are taken up, the only precaution used to secure a crop the following
year is to throw the smaller roots back into the holes from which they were taken, and to leave
them to chance. I have no doubt that, with proper care and cultivation, any quantity might
be produced. When we visited the island, we purchased the prepared arrow-root at 2d. per lb.,
and a missionary there informed us, that he would engage to procure any given quantity at 1-1/2d.
per lb., which is, I believe, much less than it can be purchased at either in the East or the
West Indies. Its quality is excellent; I should say equal to that of the East Indies, and far
superior to that of Chile, with which I have since my return, had an opportunity of comparing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

JULIET'S TOMB.

  "In fair Verona, where we lay our scene."

The traditionary story of Romeo and Juliet is fact. The animosities of the houses of Montagu
and the Capulet are matter of the history of Verona, where, in olden times, Pliny and Catullus
were born. Juliet was buried in the soutterain of Fermo Maggiore, which belonged to an order
of Franciscan friars, and was founded in 1230. Some years ago the monastery was burnt down,
and the vaults and burying-place reduced to ruins. At this time the stone sarcophagus, the
sepulchre of Juliet, was removed, and placed where it now is, in the entrance gateway of the
monastery. The upper edge of it was entire when it was first put here, but has since been mutilated,
as is represented in the Cut, for scraps to carry away as relics. Thus noted Mr. Duppa, a few
years since; but we have other pilgrims and fair pens to establish the identity.

Lord Byron, in a postscript to one of his letters from Verona, dated Nov. 7, 1816, says, "I
have been over Verona. 4to. p. 50.

Mrs. Maria Callcott writes, in 1829:--"The tomb now shown as that of Juliet, is an ancient
sarcophagus of red granite: it has suffered from the fire which burnt down the church, where
it was originally placed."[6]

    [6] See a sketch accompanying an Engraving of Verona, in vol.
        xiv. of the Mirror, p. 321.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONASTERIES.

It is a strange error to conceive that English monasteries, before the dissolution, fed the
indigent part of the nation, and gave that general relief which the poor laws are intended
to afford.

Hallam.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIRACY.

Mr. Hallam makes the following excellent observations upon the frequency of piracy in the middle
ages:--"A pirate, in a well-armed, quick-sailing vessel, must feel, I suppose, the enjoyments
of his exemption from control more exquisitely than any other free-booter; and, darting along
the bosom of the ocean, under the impartial radiance of the heavens, may deride the dark concealments
and hurried nights of the forest robber. His occupation is indeed extinguished by the civilization
of later ages, or confined to distant climates. But in the 13th or 14th centuries, a rich vessel
was never secure from attack; and neither restitution nor punishment of the criminals was to
be obtained from governments, who sometimes feared the plunderer, and sometimes connived at
the offence."

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD EFFECTS OF SALT.

Salt appears to be a necessary and universal stimulus to animated beings; and its effects upon
the vegetable as well as animal kingdom have furnished objects of the most interesting inquiry
to the physiologist, the chemist, the physician, and the agriculturist. It appears to be a
natural stimulant to the digestive organs of all warm-blooded animals, and that they are instinctively
led to immense distances in pursuit of it. This is strikingly exemplified in the avidity with
which animals in a wild state seek the salt-pans of Africa and America, and in the difficulties
they will encounter to reach them: this cannot arise from accident or caprice, but from a powerful
instinct, which, beyond control, compels them to seek, at all risks, that which is salubrious.
To those who are anxious to gain further information upon this curious subject, I would recommend
the perusal of a work entitled "Thoughts on the Laws relating to Salt," by Samuel Parkes, Esq.,
and a small volume by my late lamented friend Sir Thomas Bernard, on the "Case of the Salt
Duties, with Proofs and Illustrations." We are all sensible of the effect of salt on the human
body; we know how unpalatable fresh meat and vegetables are without it. During the course of
my professional practice, I have had frequent opportunities of witnessing the evils which have
attended an abstinance from salt. In my examination before a committee of the House of Commons
in 1818, appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the laws respecting the salt duties, I
stated, from my own experience, the bad effects of a diet of unsalted fish, and the injury
which the poorer classes, in many districts, sustained in their health from an inability to
procure this essential condiment. I had some years ago a gentleman of rank and fortune under
my care, for a deranged state of the digestive organs, accompanied with extreme emaciation.
I found that, from some cause which he could not explain, he had never eaten any salt with
his meals: I enforced the necessity of his taking it in moderate quantities, and the recovery
of his digestive powers was soon evinced in the increase of his strength and condition. One
of the ill effects produced by an unsalted diet is the generation of worms. Mr. Marshall has
published the case of a lady who had a natural antipathy to salt, and was in consequence most
dreadfully infested with worms during the whole of her life.--(London Medical and Physical
Journal, vol. xxix. No. 231.) In Ireland, where, from the bad quality of the food, the lower
classes are greatly infested with worms, a draught of salt and water is a popular and efficacious
anthelmintic.

Dr. Paris--quoted in the Doctor.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROGRESS OF THE SCIENCES.

The first savages collected in the forests a few nourishing fruits, a few salutary roots, and
thus supplied their most immediate wants. The first shepherds observed that the stars moved
in a regular course, and made use of them to guide their journeys across the plains of the
desert. Such was the origin of the mathematical and physical sciences. Once convinced that
it could combat nature by the means which she herself afforded, genius reposed no more, it
watched her without relaxation, it made incessantly new conquests over her, all of them distinguished
by some improvement in the situation of our race. From that time a succession of conducting
minds, faithful depositories of the attainments already made, constantly occupied in connecting
them, in vivifying them by means of each other, have conducted us, in less than forty ages,
from the first essays of rude observers to the profound calculations of Newton and La Place,
to the learned classifications of Linnaeus and Jussieu. This precious inheritance, perpetually
increasing, brought from Chaldea into Egypt, from Egypt into Greece, concealed during ages
of disaster and of darkness recovered in more fortunate times, unequally spread among the nations
of Europe, has everywhere been followed by wealth and power; the nations which have reaped
it are become the mistresses of the world; such as have neglected it, are fallen into weakness
and obscurity.

Curtis's Lectures on the Ear.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAUSES OF DISEASE.

