"Many families seem to think that it is a proof of family union and good-nature that they can
pick each other to pieces, joke on each other's feelings and infirmities, and treat each other
with a general tally-ho-ing rudeness without any offence or ill-feeling. If there is a limping
sister, there is a never-failing supply of jokes on 'Dot-and-go-one'; and so with other defects
and peculiarities of mind or manners. Now the perfect good-nature and mutual confidence which
allow all this liberty are certainly admirable; but the liberty itself is far from making home-life
interesting or agreeable.

"Jokes upon personal or mental infirmities, and a general habit of saying things in jest which
would be the height of rudeness if said in earnest, are all habits which take from the delicacy
of family affection.

"In all this rough playing with edge-tools many are hit and hurt who are ashamed or afraid
to complain. And after all, what possible good or benefit it? Courage to say disagreeable things,
when it is necessary to say them for the highest good of the person addressed, is a sublime
quality; but a careless habit of saying them, in the mere freedom of family intercourse, is
certainly as great a spoiler of the domestic vines as any fox running.

"There is one point under this head which I enlarge upon for the benefit of my own sex: I mean
table-criticisms. The conduct of housekeeping, in the present state of domestic service, certainly
requires great allowance; and the habit of unceremonious comment on the cooking and appointments
of the table, in which some husbands habitually allow themselves, is the most unpardonable
form of domestic rudeness. If a wife has philosophy enough not to mind it, so much the worse
for her husband, as it confirms him in an unseemly habit, embarrassing to guests and a bad
example to children. If she has no feelings that he is bound to respect, he should at least
respect decorum and good taste, and confine the discussion of such matters to private intercourse,
and not initiate every guest and child into the grating and greasing of the wheels of the domestic
machinery.

"Another thing in which families might imitate the politeness of strangers is a wise reticence
with regard to the asking of questions and the offering of advice.

"A large family includes many persons of different tastes, habits, modes of thinking and acting,
and it would be wise and well to leave to each one that measure of freedom in these respects
which the laws of general politeness require. Brothers and sisters may love each other very
much, and yet not enough to make joint-stock of all their ideas, plans, wishes, schemes, friendships.
There are in every family-circle individuals whom a certain sensitiveness of nature inclines
to quietness and reserve; and there are very well-meaning families where no such quietness
or reserve is possible. Nobody can be let alone, nobody may have a secret, nobody can move
in any direction, without a host of inquiries and comments. 'Who is your letter from? Let's
see.'--'My letter is from So-and-So.'--'He writing to you? I didn't know that. What's he writing
about?'--'Where did you go yesterday? What did you buy? What did you give for it? What are
you going to do with it?'--'Seems to me that's an odd way to do. I shouldn't do so.'--'Look
here, Mary; Sarah's going to have a dress of silk tissue this spring. Now I think they're too
dear,--don't you?'

"I recollect seeing in some author a description of a true gentleman, in which, among other
traits, he was characterized as the man that asks the fewest questions. This trait of refined
society might be adopted into home-life in a far greater degree than it is, and make it far
more agreeable.

"If there is perfect unreserve and mutual confidence, let it show itself in free communications
coming unsolicited. It may fairly be presumed, that, if there is anything our intimate friends
wish us to know, they will tell us of it,--and that when we are on close and confidential terms
with persons, and there are topics on which they do not speak to us, it is because for some
reason they prefer to keep silence concerning them; and the delicacy that respects a friend's
silence is one of the charms of life.

"As with the asking of questions, so with the offering of advice, there should be among friends
a wise reticence.

"Some families are always calling each other to account at every step of the day. 'What did
you put on that dress for? Why didn't you wear that?'--'What did you do this for? Why didn't
you do that?'--'Now I should advise you to do thus and so.'--And these comments and criticisms
and advices are accompanied with an energy of feeling that makes it rather difficult to disregard
them.

"Now it is no matter how dear and how good our friends may be, if they abridge our liberty
and fetter the free exercise of our life, it is inevitable that we shall come to enjoying ourselves
much better where they are not than where they are; and one of the reasons why brothers and
sisters or children so often diverge from the family-circle in the choice of confidants is,
that extraneous friends are bound by certain laws of delicacy not to push inquiries, criticisms,
or advice too far.

"Parents would do well to remember in time when their children have grown up into independent
human beings, and use with a wise moderation those advisory and admonitory powers with which
they guided their earlier days. Let us give everybody a right to live his own life, as far
as possible, and avoid imposing our own personalities on another.

"If I were to picture a perfect family, it should be a union of people of individual and marked
character, who through love have come to a perfect appreciation of each other, and who so wisely
understand themselves and one another that each may move freely along his or her own track
without jar or jostle,--a family where affection is always sympathetic and receptive, but never
inquisitive,--where all personal delicacies are respected,--and where there is a sense of privacy
and seclusion in following one's own course, unchallenged by the watchfulness of others, yet
withal a sense of society and support in a knowledge of the kind dispositions and interpretations
of all around.

"In treating of family discourtesies, I have avoided speaking, of those which come from ill-temper
and brute selfishness, because these are sins more than mistakes. An angry person is generally
impolite; and where contention and ill-will are, there can be no courtesy. What I have mentioned
are rather the lackings of good and often admirable people, who merely need to consider in
their family-life a little more of whatsoever things are lovely. With such the mere admission
of anything to be pursued as a duty secures the purpose; only in their somewhat earnest pursuit
of the substantials of life they drop and pass by the little things that give it sweetness
and perfume. To such a word is enough, and that word is said."

ACCOMPLICES.

VIRGINIA, 1865.

    The soft new grass is creeping o'er the graves
      By the Potomac; and the crisp ground-flower
      Lifts its blue cup to catch the passing shower;
    The pine-cone ripens, and the long moss waves
    Its tangled gonfalons above our braves.
      Hark, What a burst of music from yon wood!
      The Southern nightingale, above its brood,
    In its melodious summer madness raves.
    Ah, with what delicate touches of her hand,
      With what sweet voices, Nature seeks to screen
    The awful Crime of this distracted land,--
      Sets her birds singing, while she spreads her green
    Mantle of velvet where the Murdered lie,
    As if to hide the horror from God's eye!

THE CHICAGO CONSPIRACY.

On the eve of the last general election, the country was startled by the publication of a Report
from the Judge Advocate of the United States, disclosing the existence of a wide-spread conspiracy
at the West, which had for its object the overthrow of the Union. This conspiracy, the Report
stated, had a military organization, with a commander-in-chief, general and subordinate officers,
and five hundred thousand enrolled members, all bound to a blind obedience to the orders of
their superiors, and pledged to "take up arms against any government found waging war against
a people endeavoring to establish a government of their own choice."

The organization, it was said, was in every way hostile to the Union, and friendly to the so-called
Confederacy; and its ultimate objects were "a general rising in Missouri," and a similar "rising
in Indiana, Ohio, Illinois, and Kentucky, in coöperation with a Rebel force which was to invade
the last-named State."

Startling and incredible as the Report seemed, it told nothing but the truth, and it did not
tell the whole truth. It omitted to state that the organization was planned in Richmond; that
its operations were directed by Jacob Thompson, who was in Canada for that purpose; and that
wholesale robbery, arson, and midnight assassination were among its designs.

The point marked out for the first attack was Camp Douglas, at Chicago. The eight thousand
Rebel soldiers confined there, being liberated and armed, were to be joined by the Canadian
refugees and Missouri "Butternuts" engaged in their release, and the five thousand and more
members of the treasonable order resident in Chicago. This force, of nearly twenty thousand
men, would be a nucleus about which the conspirators in other parts of Illinois could gather;
and, being joined by the prisoners liberated from other camps, and members of the order from
other States, would form an army a hundred thousand strong. So fully had everything been foreseen
and provided for, that the leaders expected to gather and organize this vast body of men within
the space of a fortnight! The United States could bring into the field no force capable of
withstanding the progress of such an army. The consequences would be, that the whole character
of the war would be changed; its theatre would be shifted from the Border to the heart of the
Free States; and Southern independence, and the beginning at the North of that process of disintegration
so confidently counted on by the Rebel leaders at the outbreak of hostilities, would have followed.

What saved the nation from being drawn into this whirlpool of ruin? Nothing but the cool brain,
sleepless vigilance, and wonderful sagacity of one man,--a young officer never read of in the
newspapers,--removed from field-duty because of disability, but commissioned, I verily believe,
by Providence itself to ferret out and foil this deeper-laid, wider-spread, and more diabolical
conspiracy than any that darkens the page of history. Other men--and women, too--were instrumental
in dragging the dark iniquity to light; but they failed to fathom its full enormity, and to
discover its point of outbreak. He did that; and he throttled the tiger when about to spring,
and so deserves the lasting gratitude of his country. How he did it I propose to tell in this
paper. It is a marvellous tale; it will read more like romance than history; but, calling to
mind what a good man once said to me, "Write the truth; let people doubt, if they will," I
shall narrate the facts.

There is nothing remarkable in the appearance of this young man. Nearly six feet high, he has
an erect, military carriage, a frank, manly face, and looks every inch a soldier,--such a soldier
as would stand up all day in a square hand-to-hand fight with an open enemy; but the keenest
eye would detect in him no indication of the crafty genius which delights to follow the windings
of wickedness when burrowing in the dark. But if not a Fouché or a Vidocq, he is certainly
an able man; for, in a section where able men are as plenty as apple-blossoms in June, he was
chosen to represent his district in the State Senate, and, entering the army a subaltern officer,
rose, before the Battle of Perryville, to the command of a regiment. At that battle a Rebel
bullet entered his shoulder, and crushed the bones of his right elbow. This disabled him for
field duty, and so it came about that he assumed the light blue of the veterans, and on the
second day of May, 1864, succeeded General Orme in command of the military post at Chicago.

When fairly settled in the low-roofed shanty which stands, a sort of mute sentry, over the
front gateway of Camp Douglas, the new Commandant, as was natural, looked about him. He found
the camp--about sixty acres of flat, sandy soil, inclosed by a tight board fence, an inch thick,
and fourteen feet high--had a garrison of but two regiments of veteran reserves, numbering,
all told, only seven hundred men fit for duty. This small force was guarding eight thousand
Rebel prisoners, one third of whom were Texas rangers, and guerrillas who had served under
Morgan,--wild, reckless characters, fonder of a fight than of a dinner, and ready for any enterprise,
however desperate, that held out the smallest prospect of freedom. To add to the seeming insecurity,
nearly every office in the camp was filled with these prisoners. They served out rations and
distributed clothing to their comrades, dealt out ammunition to the guards, and even kept the
records in the quarters of the Commandant. In fact, the prison was in charge of the prisoners,
not the prisoners in charge of the prison. This state of things underwent a sudden change.
With the exception of a very few, whose characters recommended them to peculiar confidence,
all were at once placed where they belonged,--on the inner side of the prison-fence.

A post-office was connected with the camp, and this next received the Commandant's attention.
Everything about it appeared to be regular. A vast number of letters came and went, but they
all passed unsealed, and seemed to contain nothing contraband. Many of them, however, were
short epistles on long pieces of paper, a curious circumstance among correspondents with whom
stationery was scarce and greenbacks were not over-plenty. One sultry day in June, the Commandant
builded a fire, and gave these letters a warming; and lo! presto! the white spaces broke out
into dark lines breathing thoughts blacker than the fluid that wrote them. Corporal Snooks
whispered to his wife, away down in Texas, "The forthe of July is comin', Sukey, so be a man;
fur I'm gwine to celerbrate. I'm gwine up loike a rocket, ef I does come down loike a stick."
And Sergeant Blower said to John Copperhead of Chicago, "Down in 'old Virginny' I used to think
the fourth of July a humbug, but this prison has made me a patriot. Now I'd like to burn an
all-fired sight of powder, and if you help, and God is willing, I shall do it." In a similar
strain wrote half a score of them.

Such patriotism seemed altogether too wordy to be genuine. It told nothing, but it darkly hinted
at dark events to come. The Commandant bethought him that the Democratic Convention would assemble
on the fourth of July; that a vast multitude of people would congregate at Chicago on that
occasion; and that, in so great a throng, it would be easy for the clans to gather, attack
the camp, and liberate the prisoners. "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty," and the
young Commandant was vigilant. Soon Prison-Square received a fresh instalment of prisoners.
They were genuine "Butternuts," out at the toes, out at the knees, out at the elbows, out everywhere,
in fact, and of everything but their senses. Those they had snugly about them. They fraternized
with Corporal Snooks, Sergeant Blower, and others of their comrades, and soon learned that
a grand pyrotechnic display was arranged to come off on Independence-day. A huge bonfire was
to be built outside, and the prisoners were to salute the old flag, but not with blank cartridges.

But who was to light the outside bonfire? That the improvised "Butternuts" failed to discover,
and the Commandant set his own wits to working. He soon ascertained that a singular organization
existed in Chicago. It was called "The Society of the Illini," and its object, as set forth
by its printed constitution, was "the more perfect development of the literary, scientific,
moral, physical, and social welfare of the conservative citizens of Chicago." The Commandant
knew a conservative citizen whose development was not altogether perfect, and he recommended
him to join the organization. The society needed recruits and initiation-fees, and received
the new member with open arms. Soon he was deep in the outer secrets of the order; but he could
not penetrate its inner mysteries. Those were open to only an elect few who had already attained
to a "perfect development"--of villany. He learned enough, however, to verify the dark hints
thrown out by the prisoners. The society numbered some thousands of members, all fully armed,
thoroughly drilled, and impatiently waiting a signal to explode a mine deeper than that in
front of Petersburg.

But the assembling of the Chicago Convention was postponed to the twenty-ninth of August, and
the fourth of July passed away without the bonfire and the fireworks.

The Commandant, however, did not sleep. He still kept his wits a-working; the bogus "Butternuts"
still ate prisoners' rations; and the red flame still brought out black thoughts on the white
letter-paper. Quietly the garrison was reinforced, quietly increased vigilance was enjoined
upon the sentinels; and the tranquil, assured look of the Commandant told no one that he was
playing with hot coals on a barrel of gunpowder.

So July rolled away into August, and the Commandant sent a letter giving his view of the state
of things to his commanding general. This letter has fallen into my hands, and, as might sometimes
makes right, I shall copy a portion of it. It is dated August 12, and, in the formal phrase
customary among military men, begins:--

"I have the honor respectfully to report, in relation to the supposed organization at Toronto,
Canada, which was to come here in squads, then combine, and attempt to rescue the prisoners
of war at Camp Douglas, that there is an armed organization in this city of five thousand men,
and that the rescue of our prisoners would be the signal for a general insurrection in Indiana
and Illinois....

"There is little, if any, doubt that an organization hostile to the Government and secret in
its workings and character exists in the States of Indiana and Illinois, and that this organization
is strong in numbers. It would be easy, perhaps, at any crisis in public affairs, to push this
organization into acts of open disloyalty, if its leaders should so will....

"Except in cases of considerable emergency, I shall make all communications to your head-quarters
on this subject by mail."

These extracts show, that, seventeen days before the assembling of the Chicago Convention,
the Commandant had become convinced that mail-bags were safer vehicles of communication than
telegraph-wires; that five thousand armed traitors were then domiciled in Chicago; that they
expected to be joined by a body of Rebels from Canada; that the object of the combination was
the rescue of the prisoners at Camp Douglas; and that success in that enterprise would be the
signal for a general uprising throughout Indiana and Illinois. Certainly, this was no little
knowledge to gain by two months' burrowing in the dark. But the conspirators were not fools.
They had necks which they valued. They would not plunge into open disloyalty until some "crisis
in public affairs" should engage the attention of the authorities, and afford a fair chance
of success. Would the assembling of the Convention be such a crisis? was now the question.

The question was soon answered. About this time, Lieutenant-Colonel B. H. Hill, commanding
the military district of Michigan, received a missive from a person in Canada who represented
himself to be a major in the Confederate service. He expressed a readiness to disclose a dangerous
plot against the Government, provided he were allowed to take the oath of allegiance, and rewarded
according to the value of his information. The Lieutenant-Colonel read the letter, tossed it
aside, and went about his business. No good, he had heard, ever came out of Nazareth. Soon
another missive, of the same purport, and from the same person, came to him. He tossed this
aside also, and went again about his business. But the Major was a Southern Yankee,--the "cutest"
sort of Yankee. He had something to sell, and was bound to sell it, even if he had to throw
his neck into the bargain. Taking his life in his hand, he crossed the frontier; and so it
came about, that, late one night, a tall man, in a slouched hat, rusty regimentals, and immense
jack-boots, was ushered into the private apartment of the Lieutenant-Colonel at Detroit. It
was the Major. He had brought his wares with him. They had cost him nothing, except some small
sacrifice of such trifling matters as honor, fraternal feeling, and good faith towards brother
conspirators, whom they might send to the gallows; but they were of immense value,--would save
millions of money and rivers of loyal blood. So the Major said, and so the Lieutenant-Colonel
thought, as, coolly, with his cigar in his mouth and his legs over the arm of his chair, he
drew the important secrets from the Rebel officer. Something good might, after all, come out
of Nazareth. The Lieutenant-Colonel would trust the fellow,--trust him, but pay him nothing,
and send him back to Toronto to worm out the whole plan from the Rebel leaders, and to gather
the whole details of the projected expedition. But the Major knew with whom he was dealing.
He had faith in Uncle Sam, and he was right in having it; for, truth to tell, if Uncle Sam
does not always pay, he can always be trusted.

It was not long before the Major reappeared with his budget, which he duly opened to the Lieutenant-Colonel.
Its contents were interesting, and I will give them to the reader as the Union officer gave
them to the General commanding the Northern Department. His communication is dated August 16.
It says:--

"I have the honor to report that I had another interview last evening with Major ----, whose
disclosures in relation to a Rebel plot for the release of the prisoners at Camp Douglas I
gave you in my letter of the 8th instant. I have caused inquiries to be made in Canada about
Major ----, and understand that he does possess the confidence of the Rebel agent, and that
his statements are entitled to respect.

"He now informs me that he proceeded to Toronto, as he stated he would when I last saw him;
that about two hundred picked men, of the Rebel refugees in Canada, are assembled at that place,
who are armed with revolvers and supplied with funds and transportation-tickets to Chicago;
and that already one hundred and fifty have proceeded to Chicago. That he (Major ----) and
the balance of the men are waiting for instructions from Captain Hines, who is the commander
of the expedition; that Captain Hines left Toronto last Thursday for Chicago, and at this time
is doubtless at Niagara Falls, making the final arrangements with the chief Rebel agents.

"Major ---- states that Saunders, Holbrook, and Colonel Hicks were at Toronto while he was
there, engaged in making preparations, etc. The general plan is to accomplish the release of
the prisoners at Camp Douglas, and in doing so they will be assisted by an armed organization
at Chicago. After being released, the prisoners will be armed, and being joined by the organization
in Chicago, will be mounted and proceed to Camp Morton, (at Indianapolis,) and there accomplish
a similar object in releasing prisoners. That for months, Rebel emissaries have been travelling
through the Northwest; that their arrangements are fully matured; and that they expect to receive
large accessions of force from Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. They expect to destroy the works
at Ironton.

"Major ---- says further that he is in hourly expectation of receiving instructions to proceed
to Chicago with the balance of the party; that he shall put up at the City Hotel, corner of
Lake and State Streets, and register his name as George ----; and that he will then place himself
in communication with Colonel Sweet, commanding at Chicago."

The Major did not "put up at the corner of Lake and State Streets," and that fact relieved
the Government from the trouble of estimating the value of his services, and, what is more
to be deplored, rendered it impossible for the Commandant to recognize and arrest the Rebel
leaders during the sitting of the Chicago Convention. What became of the Major is not known.
He may have repented of his good deeds, or his treachery may have been detected and he put
out of the way by his accomplices.

It will be noticed how closely the Rebel officer's disclosures accorded with the information
gathered through indirect channels by the astute Commandant. When the report was conveyed to
him, he may have smiled at this proof of his own sagacity; but he made no change in his arrangements.
Quietly and steadily he went on strengthening the camp, augmenting the garrison, and shadowing
the footsteps of all suspicious new-comers.

At last the loyal Democrats came together to the great Convention, and with them came Satan
also. Bands of ill-favored men, in bushy hair, bad whiskey, and seedy homespun, staggered from
the railway-stations, and hung about the street-corners. A reader of Dante or Swedenborg would
have taken them for delegates from the lower regions, had not their clothing been plainly perishable,
while the devils wear everlasting garments. They had come, they announced, to make a Peace
President, but they brandished bowie-knives, and bellowed for war even in the sacred precincts
of the Peace Convention. But war or peace, the Commandant was ready for it.

For days reinforcements had poured into the camp, until it actually bristled with bayonets.
On every side it was guarded with cannon, and, day and night, mounted men patrolled the avenues
to give notice of the first hostile gathering. But there was no gathering. The conspirators
were there, two thousand strong, with five thousand Illini to back them. From every point of
the compass,--from Canada, Missouri, Southern Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, New York, and even loyal
Vermont, bloody-minded men had come to give the Peace candidate a red baptism. But "discretion
is the better part of valor." The conspirators saw the preparations and disbanded. Not long
afterward one of the leaders said to me, "We had spies in every public place,--in the telegraph-office,
the camp itself, and even close by the Commandant's head-quarters, and knew, hourly, all that
was passing. From the observatory, opposite the camp, I myself saw the arrangements for our
reception. We outnumbered you two to one, but our force was badly disciplined. Success in such
circumstances was impossible; and on the third day of the Convention we announced from head-quarters
that an attack at that time was impracticable. It would have cost the lives of hundreds of
the prisoners, and perhaps the capture or destruction of the whole of us." So the storm blew
over, without the leaden rain, and its usual accompaniment of thunder and lightning.

A dead calm followed, during which the Illini slunk back to their holes; the prisoners took
to honest ink; the bogus "Butternuts" walked the streets clad like Christians, and the Commandant
went to sleep with only one eye open. So the world rolled around into November.

The Presidential election was near at hand,--the great contest on which hung the fate of the
Republic. The Commandant was convinced of this, and wanted to marshal his old constituents
for the final struggle between Freedom and Despotism. He obtained a furlough to go home and
mount the stump for the Union. He was about to set out, his private secretary was ready, and
the carriage waiting at the gateway, when an indefinable feeling took possession of him, holding
him back, and warning him of coming danger. It would not be shaken off, and reluctantly he
postponed the journey till the morrow. Before the morrow facts were developed which made his
presence in Chicago essential for the safety of the city and the lives of the citizens. The
snake was scotched, not killed. It was preparing for another and a deadlier spring.

On the second of November, a well-known citizen of St. Louis, openly a Secessionist, but secretly
a loyal man, and acting as a detective for the Government left the city in pursuit of a criminal.
He followed him to Springfield, traced him from there to Chicago, and on the morning of November
fourth, about the hour the Commandant had the singular impression I have spoken of, arrived
in the latter city. He soon learned that the bird had again flown.

"While passing along the street," (I now quote from his report to the Provost Marshal General
of Missouri,) "and trying to decide what course to pursue,--whether to follow this man to New
York, or return to St. Louis,--I met an old acquaintance, a member of the order of 'American
Knights,' who informed me that Marmaduke was in Chicago. After conversing with him awhile,
I started up the street, and about one block farther on met Dr. E. W. Edwards, a practising
physician in Chicago, (another old acquaintance,) who asked me if I knew of any Southern soldiers
being in town. I told him I did; that Marmaduke was there. He seemed very much astonished,
and asked how I knew. I told him. He laughed, and then said that Marmaduke was at his house,
under the assumed name of Burling, and mentioned, as a good joke, that he had a British passport,
vised by the United States Consul under that name. I gave Edwards my card to hand to Marmaduke,
(who was another 'old acquaintance,') and told him I was stopping at the Briggs House.

"That same evening I again met Dr. Edwards on the street, going to my hotel. He said Marmaduke
desired to see me, and I accompanied him to his house." There, in the course of a long conversation,
"Marmaduke told me that he and several Rebel officers were in Chicago to coöperate with other
parties in releasing the prisoners of Camp Douglas, and other prisons, and in inaugurating
a Rebellion at the North. He said the movement was under the auspices of the order of 'American
Knights,' (to which order the Society of the Illini belonged,) and was to begin operations
by an attack on Camp Douglas on election-day."

The detective did not know the Commandant, but he soon made his acquaintance, and told him
the story. "The young man," he says, "rested his head upon his hand, and looked as if he had
lost his mother." And well he might! A mine had opened at his feet; with but eight hundred
men in the garrison it was to be sprung upon him. Only seventy hours were left! What would
he not give for twice as many? Then he might secure reinforcements. He walked the room for
a time in silence, then, turning to the detective, said, "Do you know where the other leaders
are?"--"I do not."--"Can't you find out from Marmaduke?"--"I think not. He said what he did
say voluntarily. If I were to question him, he would suspect me." That was true, and Marmaduke
was not of the stuff that betrays a comrade on compulsion. His arrest, therefore, would profit
nothing, and might hasten the attack for which the Commandant was so poorly prepared. He sat
down and wrote a hurried dispatch to his General. Troops! troops! for God's sake, troops! was
its burden. Sending it off by a courier,--the telegraph told tales,--he rose, and again walked
the room in silence. After a while, with a heavy heart, the detective said, "Good night," and
left him.

What passed with the Commandant during the next two hours I do not know. He may have prayed,--he
is a praying man,--and there was need of prayer, for the torch was ready to burn millions of
property, the knife whetted to take thousands of lives. At the end of the two hours, a stranger
was ushered into the apartment where the Commandant was still pacing the floor. From the lips
and pen of this stranger I have what followed, and I think it may be relied on.

He was a slim, light-haired young man, with fine, regular features, and that indefinable air
which denotes good breeding. Recognizing the Commandant by the eagle on his shoulder, he said,
"Can I see you alone, Sir?"--"Certainly," answered the Union officer, motioning to his secretary
to leave the room. "I am a Colonel in the Rebel army," said the stranger, "and have put my
life into your hands, to warn you of the most hellish plot in history."--"Your life is safe,
Sir," replied the other, "if your visit is an honest one. I shall be glad to hear what you
have to say. Be seated."

