2. What tissues may be found by dissecting the leg of a chicken?

3. Name the most important properties and the most important uses of muscular tissue, osseous
tissue, and connective tissue.

4. Define an organ. Define a system. Name examples of each.

5. Name the chief cavities of the body and the organs which they contain.

6. What tissues are present in the hand? How does each of these aid in the work of the hand?

7. Define an organization. Show that a railway system, an army, and a school are organizations.

8. What is meant by the phrase "division of labor"? In what manner is the division of labor
practiced in a shoe or watch factory? What are the advantages?

9. What are the proofs that the body is an organization?

PRACTICAL WORK

*Observation on the Tissues.*—Examine with care the structures in the entire leg of a chicken,
squirrel, rabbit, or other small animal used for food. Observe, first of all, the external
covering, consisting of cuticle and hair, claws, scales, or feathers, according to the specimen.
These are similar in structure, and they form the epidermis, which is one kind of epithelial
tissue. With a sharp knife lay open the skin and observe that it is attached to the parts underneath
by thin, but tough, threads and sheaths. These represent a variety of connective tissue. The
reddish material which forms the greater portion of the specimen is a variety of muscular tissue,
and its divisions are called muscles. With a blunt instrument, separate the muscles, by tearing
apart the connective tissue binding them together, and find the glistening white strips of
connective tissue (tendons) which attach them to the bones. Find near the central part of the
leg a soft, white cord (a nerve) which represents one variety of nervous tissue. The bones,
which may now be examined, form the osseous tissue. At the ends of the bones will be found
a layer of smooth, white material which represents one kind of cartilaginous tissue. The adipose,
or fatty, tissue, which is found under the skin and between the other tissues, is easily recognized.

*Relation of the Tissues to the Organs.*—Observe in the specimen just studied the relation
of the different tissues to the organ as a whole (regarding the leg as an organ), i.e., show
how each of the tissues aids in the work which the organ accomplishes. Show in particular how
the muscles supply the foot with motion, by tracing out the tendons that connect them with
the toes. Pull on the different tendons, noting the effect upon the different parts of the foot.

CHAPTER III - THE BODY ORGANIZATION

What is the nature of the body organization? What are the individual parts, or units, that
make it up? What general work do these carry on and upon what basis do they practice the division
of labor? The answers to these questions will suggest the main problems in the study of the body.

                                 [Fig. 3]

  Fig. 3—Diagram showing the relation of the cells and the intercellular
            material. C. Cells. I. Intercellular material.

*Complex Nature of the Tissues.*—To the unaided eye the tissues have the appearance of simple
structures. The microscope, however, shows just the reverse to be true. When any one of the
tissues is suitably prepared and carefully examined with this instrument, at least two classes
of materials can be made out. One of these consists of minute particles, called cells; the
other is a substance lying between the cells, known as the intercellular material (Fig. 3).
The cells and the intercellular material, though varying in their relative proportions, are
present in all the tissues.

*The Body a Cell Group.*—The biologist has found that the bodies of all living things, plants
as well as animals, consist either of single cells or of groups of cells. The single cells
live independently of one another, but the cells that form groups are attached to, and are
more or less dependent upon, one another. In the first condition are found the very lowest
forms of life. In the second, life reaches its greatest development. The body of man, which
represents the highest type of life, is recognized as a group of cells. In this group each
cell is usually separate and distinct from the others, but is attached to them, and is held
in place by the intercellular material.

*Protoplasm, the Cell Substance.*—The cell is properly regarded as an organized bit of a peculiar
material, called protoplasm. This is a semi-liquid and somewhat granular substance which resembles
in appearance the white of a raw egg. Its true nature and composition are unknown, because
any attempt to analyze it kills it, and dead protoplasm is essentially different from living
protoplasm. It is known, however, to be a highly complex substance and to undergo chemical
change readily. It appears to be the only kind of matter with which life is ever associated,
and for this reason protoplasm is called the physical basis of life. Its organization into
separate bits, or cells, is necessary to the life activities that take place within it.

*Structure of the Cell.*—Though all portions of the cell are formed from the protoplasm, this
essential substance differs both in structure and in function at different places in the cell.
For this reason the cell is looked upon as a complex body having several distinct parts. At
or near the center is a clear, rounded body, called the nucleus. This plays some part in the
nourishment of the cell and also in the formation of new cells. If it be absent, as is sometimes
the case, the cell is short-lived and unable to reproduce itself. The variety of protoplasm
contained in the nucleus is called the nucleoplasm.

                                 [Fig. 4]

Fig. 4—Diagram of a typical cell (after Wilson). 1. Main body. 2. Nucleus.
3. Attraction sphere. 4. Food particles and waste. 5. Cell-wall. 6. Masses
       of active material found in certain cells, called plastids.

Surrounding the nucleus is the main body of the cell, sometimes referred to as the "protoplasm."
Since the protoplasm forms all parts of the cell, this substance is more properly called the
cytoplasm, or cell plasm. Surrounding and inclosing the cytoplasm, in many cells, is a thin
outer layer, or membrane, which affords more or less protection to the contents of the cell.
This is usually referred to as the cell-wall. A fourth part of the cell is also described,
being called the attraction sphere. This is a small body lying near the nucleus and coöperating
with that body in the formation of new cells. Food particles, wastes, and other substances
may also be present in the cytoplasm. The parts of a typical cell are shown in Fig. 4.

*Importance of the Cells.*—The cells must be regarded as the living, working parts of the body.
They are the active agents in all of the tissues, enabling them to serve their various purposes.
Working through the tissues, they build up the body and carry on its different activities.
They are recognized on this account as the units of structure and of function, and are the
"individuals" in the body organization. Among the most important and interesting of the activities
of the cells are those by which they build up the body, or cause it to grow.

*How the Cells enable the Body to Grow.*—Every cell is able to take new material into itself
and to add this to the protoplasm. This tends to increase the amount of the protoplasm, thereby
causing the cells to increase in size. A general increase in the size of the cells has the
effect of increasing the size of the entire body, and this is one way by which they cause it
to grow. There is, however, a fixed limit, varying with different cells, to the size which
they attain, and this is quite low. (The largest cells are scarcely visible to the naked eye.)
Any marked increase in the size of the body must, therefore, be brought about by other means.
Such a means is found in the formation of new cells, or cell reproduction. The new cells are
always formed by and from the old cells, the essential process being known as cell-division.

                                 [Fig. 5]

Fig. 5—Steps in cell-division (after Wilson). Note that the process begins
with the division of the attraction sphere, then involves the nucleus, and
                     finally separates the main body.

*Cell-Division.*—By dividing, a single cell will, on attaining its growth, separate into two
or more new cells. The process is quite complex and is imperfectly understood. It is known,
however, that the act of separation is preceded by a series of changes in which the attraction
sphere and the nucleus actively participate, and that, as a result of these changes, the contents
of the old cell are rearranged to form the new cells. Some of the different stages in the process,
as they have been studied under the microscope, are indicated in Fig. 5.

Gradually, through the formation of new cells and by the growth of these cells after they have
been formed, the body attains its full size. When growth is complete, cell reproduction is
supposed to cease except where the tissues are injured, as in the breaking of a bone, or where
cells, like those at the surface of the skin, are subject to wear. Then new material continues
to be added to the protoplasm throughout life, but in amount only sufficient to replace that
lost from the protoplasm as waste.

                                 [Fig. 6]

Fig. 6—A tumbler partly filled with marbles covered with water, suggesting
                 the relations of the cells to the lymph.

*Cell Surroundings.*—All cells are said to be aquatic. This means simply that they require
water for carrying on their various activities. The cells, in order to live, must take in and
give out materials, and water is necessary to both processes. It is also an essential part
of the protoplasm. Deprived of water, cells become inactive and usually die. Aquatic surroundings
are provided for the cells of the body through a liquid known as the lymph, which is distributed
throughout the intercellular material (Fig. 6). This consists of water containing oxygen and
food substances in solution. Besides supplying these to the cells, the lymph also receives
their wastes. Through the lymph the necessary conditions for cell life are provided in the body.

*The General Work of Cells.*—In handling the materials derived from the lymph, the cells carry
on three well-defined processes, known as absorption, assimilation, and excretion.

Absorption is the process of taking water, food, and oxygen into the cells.

Assimilation is a complex process which results in the addition of the absorbed materials to
the protoplasm. Through assimilation the protoplasm is built up or renewed.

Excretion is the throwing off of such waste materials as have been formed in the cells. These
are passed into the lymph and thence to the surface of the body.

Absorption, assimilation, excretion, and also reproduction are performed by all classes of
cells. They are, on this account, referred to as the general work of cells.

*The Special Work of Cells.*—In addition to the general work which all cells do in common,
each class of cells in the body is able to do some particular kind of work—a work which the
others cannot do or which they can do only to a limited extent. This is spoken of as the special
work of cells. Examples of the special work of cells are found in the production of motion
by muscle cells and in the secretion of liquids by gland cells. It may be noted that while
the general work of cells benefits them individually, their special work benefits the body
as a whole. Another example of the special work of cells is found in the

                                 [Fig. 7]

  Fig. 7—Cartilage cells, surrounded by the intercellular material which
                           they have deposited.

*Production of the Intercellular Material.*—Though most of the cells of the body deposit to
a slight extent this material, the greater part of it is produced by a single class of cells
found in bone, cartilage, and connective tissue. Cartilage, bone, and connective tissue differ
greatly from the other tissues in the amount of intercellular material which they contain,
the difference being due to these cells. In the connective tissue they deposit the fibrous
material so important in holding the different parts of the body together. In the cartilage
they produce the gristly substance which forms by far its larger portion (Fig. 7). In the bones
they deposit a material similar to that in the cartilage, except that with it is mixed a mineral
substance which gives the bones their hardness and stiffness.(4) The intercellular material,
in addition to connecting the cells, supplies to certain tissues important properties, such
as the elasticity of cartilage and the stiffness of the bones.

*Nature of the Body Organization.*—The division of labor carried on by the different organs,
as shown in the preceding chapter, is in reality carried on by the cells that form the organs.
To see that this is true we have only to observe the relation of cells to tissues and of tissues
to organs. The cells form the tissues and the tissues form the organs. This arrangement enables
the special work of different kinds of cells to be combined in the work of the organ as a whole.
This is seen in the hand which, in grasping, uses motion supplied by the muscle cells, a controlling
influence supplied by the nerve cells, a framework supplied by the bone cells, and so on. The
cells supply the basis for the body organization and, properly speaking, the body is an organization
of cells(5) (Recall the definition of an organization, page 10.) In this organization there
are to be observed:

1. A definite arrangement of the cells to form the tissues. A tissue is a group of like cells.

2. A definite arrangement of the tissues in the organ. Each organ contains the tissues needed
for its work.

3. In several instances there is a definite arrangement of organs to form systems.

4. The body as a whole is made up of organs and systems, together with the structures necessary
for their support and protection.

There now remains a further question for consideration. What is the one supreme end, or purpose,
toward which all the activities of the body organization are directed? This purpose will naturally
have some relation to the maintenance, or preservation, of the cell group which we call the body.

*The Maintenance of Life.*—The preservation of any cell group in its natural condition, whether
it be plant or animal, is accomplished through keeping it alive. If life ceases, the group
quickly disintegrates and its elements become scattered, a fact which is verified through everyday
observation. Though the nature of life is unknown, it may be looked upon as the organizer and
preserver of the protoplasm. But in preserving the protoplasm it also preserves the entire
cell group, or body. Life is thus the most essential condition of the body. With life all portions
of the body are concerned, and toward its maintenance all the activities of the body organization
are directed.

*The Nutrient Fluid in its Relations to the Cells.*—The maintenance of life within the cells
requires, as we have seen, that they be supplied with water, food, and oxygen, and that they
be relieved of such wastes as they form. This double purpose is accomplished through the agency
of an internal nutrient fluid, a portion of which has already been referred to as the lymph.
Not only does this fluid supply the means for keeping the cells alive, but, through the cells,
it is also the means of preserving the life of the body as a whole.

The cells, however, rapidly exhaust the nutrient fluid. They take from it food and oxygen and
they put into it their wastes. To prevent its becoming unfit for supplying their needs, food
and oxygen must be continually added to this fluid, and waste materials must be continually
removed. This is not an easy task. As a matter of fact, the preparation, distribution, and
purification of the nutrient fluid requires the direct or indirect aid of practically all parts
of the body. It supplies for this reason a broad basis for the division of labor on the part
of the cells.

*Relation of the Body to its Environment.*—While life is directly dependent upon the internal
nutrient fluid, it is indirectly dependent upon the physical surroundings of the body. Herein
lies the need of the external organs—the feet and legs for moving about, the hands for handling
things, the eyes for directing movements, etc. That the great needs of the body are supplied
from its surroundings are facts of common experience. Food, shelter, air, clothing, water,
and the means of protection are external to the body and form a part of its environment. In
making the things about him contribute to his needs, man encounters a problem which taxes all
his powers. Only by toil and hardship, "by the sweat of his brow," has he been able to wrest
from his surroundings the means of his sustenance.

*The Main Physiological Problems.*—The study of the body is thus seen to resolve itself naturally
into the consideration of two main problems:

1. That of maintaining in the body a nutrient fluid for the cells.

2. That of bringing the body into such relations with its surroundings as will enable it to
secure materials for the nutrient fluid and satisfy its other needs.

The first problem is internal and includes the so-called vital processes, known as digestion,
circulation, respiration, and excretion. The second problem is external, as it were, and includes
the work of the external organs—the organs of motion and of locomotion and the organs of special
sense. These problems are closely related, since they are the two divisions of the one problem
of maintaining life. Neither can be considered independently of the other. In the chapter following
is taken up the first of these problems.

*Summary.*—The individual parts, or units, that form the body organization are known as cells.
These consist of minute but definitely arranged portions of protoplasm and are held together
by the intercellular material. They build up the body and carry on its different activities.
The tissues are groups of like cells. By certain general activities the cells maintain their
existence in the tissues and by the exercise of certain special activities they adapt the tissues
to their purposes in the body. The body, as a cell organization, has its activities directed
under normal conditions toward a single purpose—that of maintaining life. In the accomplishment
of this purpose a nutrient fluid is provided for the cells and proper relations between the
body and its surroundings are established.

*Exercises.*—1. If a tissue be compared to a brick wall, to what do the separate bricks correspond?
To what the mortar between the bricks?

2. Draw an outline of a typical cell, locating and naming the main divisions.

3. How do the cells enable the body to grow? Describe the process of cell-division.

4. How does the general work of cells differ from their special work? Define absorption, excretion,
and assimilation as applied to the cells.

5. Compare the conditions surrounding a one-celled animal, living in water, to the conditions
surrounding the cells in the body.

6. What is meant by the term "environment"? How does man’s environment differ from that of a fish?

7. What is the necessity for a nutrient fluid in the body?

8. Why is the maintenance of life necessarily the chief aim of all the activities of the body?

9. State the two main problems in the study of the body.

PRACTICAL WORK

*Observations.*—1. Make some scrapings from the inside of the cheek with a dull knife and mix
these with a little water on a glass slide. Place a cover-glass on the same and examine with
a compound microscope. The large pale cells that can be seen in this way are a variety of epithelial
cells.

2. Mount in water on a glass slide some thin slices of cartilage and examine first with a low
and then with a high power of microscope. (Suitable slices may be cut, with a sharp razor,
from the cartilage found at the end of the rib of a young animal.) Note the small groups of
cells surrounded by, and imbedded in, the intercellular material.

3. Mount and examine with the microscope thin slices of elder pith, potato, and the stems of
growing plants. Make drawings of the cells thus observed.

4. Examine with the microscope a small piece of the freshly sloughed off epidermis of a frog’s
skin. Examine it first in its natural condition, and then after soaking for an hour or two
in a solution of carmine. Make drawings.

5. Mount on a glass slide some of the scum found on stagnant water and examine it with a compound
microscope. Note the variety and relative size of the different things moving about. The forms
most frequently seen by such an examination are one-celled plants. Many of these have the power
of motion.

6. Examine tissues of the body, such as nervous, muscular, and glandular tissues, which have
been suitably prepared and mounted for microscopic study, using low and high powers of the
microscope. Make drawings of the cells in the different tissues thus observed.

CHAPTER IV - THE BLOOD

Two liquids of similar nature are found in the body, known as the blood and the lymph. These
are closely related in function and together they form the nutrient fluid referred to in the
preceding chapter. The blood is the more familiar of the two liquids, and the one which can
best be considered at this time.

*The Blood: where Found.*—The blood occupies and moves through a system of closed tubes, known
as the blood vessels. By means of these vessels the blood is made to circulate through all
parts of the body, but from them it does not escape under normal conditions. Though provisions
exist whereby liquid materials may both enter and leave the blood stream, it is only when the
blood vessels are cut or broken that the blood, as blood, is able to escape from its inclosures.

*Physical Properties of the Blood.*—Experiments such as those described at the close of this
chapter reveal the more important physical properties of the blood. It may be shown to be heavier
and denser than water; to have a faint odor and a slightly salty taste; to have a bright red
color when it contains oxygen and a dark red color when oxygen is absent; and to undergo, when
exposed to certain conditions, a change called coagulation. These properties are all accounted
for through the different materials that enter into the formation of the blood.

                                 [Fig. 8]

  Fig. 8—Blood corpuscles, highly magnified. A. Red corpuscles as they
   appear in diluted blood. B. Arrangement of red corpuscles in rows
  between which are white corpuscles, as may be seen in undiluted blood.
           C. Red corpuscles much enlarged to show the form.

*Composition of the Blood.*—To the naked eye the blood appears as a thick but simple liquid;
but when examined with a compound microscope, it is seen to be complex in nature, consisting
of at least two distinct portions. One of these is a clear, transparent liquid; while the other
is made up of many small, round bodies that float in the liquid. The liquid portion of the
blood is called the plasma; the small bodies are known as corpuscles. Two varieties of corpuscles
are described—the red corpuscles and the white corpuscles (Fig. 8). Other round particles,
smaller than the corpuscles, may also be seen under favorable conditions. These latter are
known as blood platelets.

*Red Corpuscles.*—The red corpuscles are classed as cells, although, as found in the blood
of man and the other mammals (Fig. 9), they have no nuclei.(6) Each one consists of a little
mass of protoplasm, called the stroma, which contains a substance having a red color, known
as hemoglobin. The shape of the red corpuscle is that of a circular disk with concave sides.
It has a width of about 1/3200 of an inch (7.9 microns(7)) and a thickness of about 1/13000
of an inch (1.9 microns). The red corpuscles are exceedingly numerous, there being as many
as five millions in a small drop (one cubic millimeter) of healthy blood. But the number varies
somewhat and is greatly diminished during certain forms of disease.

                                 [Fig. 9]

Fig. 9—Red corpuscles from various animals. Those from mammals are without
   nuclei, while those from birds and cold-blooded animals have nuclei.

It is the function of the red corpuscles to serve as oxygen carriers for the cells. They take
up oxygen at the lungs and release it at the cells in the different tissues.(8) The performance
of this function depends upon the hemoglobin.

*Hemoglobin.*—This substance has the remarkable property of forming, under certain conditions,
a weak chemical union with oxygen and, when the conditions are reversed, of separating from
it. It forms about nine tenths of the solid matter of the red corpuscles and to it is due the
colors of the blood. When united with the oxygen it forms a compound, called oxyhemoglobin,
which has a bright red color; the hemoglobin alone has a dark red color. These colors are the
same as those of the blood as it takes on and gives off oxygen. The stroma, which forms only
about one tenth of the solid matter of the corpuscles, serves as a contrivance for holding
the hemoglobin. The conditions which cause the hemoglobin to unite with oxygen in the lungs
and to separate from it in the tissues, will be considered later (Chapter VIII).

*Disappearance and Origin of Red Corpuscles.*—The red corpuscles, being cells without nuclei,
are necessarily short-lived. It has been estimated that during a period of one to two months,
all the red corpuscles in the body at a given time will have disappeared and their places taken
by new ones. The origin of new corpuscles, however, and the manner of ridding the blood of
old ones are problems that are not as yet fully solved. The removal of the products of broken
down corpuscles is supposed to take place both in the liver and in the spleen.(9)

Regarding the origin of the red corpuscles, the evidence now seems conclusive that large numbers
of them are formed in the red marrow of the bones. The red marrow is located in what is known
as the spongy substance of the bones (Chapter XIV) and consists, to a large extent, of cells
somewhat like the red corpuscles, but differing from them in having nuclei. These appear to
be constantly in a state of reproduction. The blood, flowing through the minute cavities containing
these cells, carries those that have been loosened out into the blood stream. Nuclei appear
in the red corpuscles at the time of their formation, but these quickly separate and, according
to some authorities, form the blood platelets.

*White Corpuscles.*—The white corpuscles, or leucocytes, are cells of a general spherical shape,
each containing one, two, or more nuclei. They are much less numerous than the red, there being
on the average only one white corpuscle to about every five hundred of the red ones. On the
other hand, the white corpuscles are larger than the red, one of the former being equal in
volume to about three of the latter.

                                [Fig. 10]

Fig. 10—*Escape of white corpuscles from a small blood vessel* (Hall). At
     A the conditions are normal, but at B some excitation in the
 surrounding tissue leads to a migration of corpuscles. 1, 2, and 3 show
                     different stages of the passage.

The white corpuscles are found, when studied under favorable conditions, to possess the power
of changing their shape and, by this means, of moving from place to place. This property enables
them to penetrate the walls of capillaries and to pass with the lymph in between the cells
of the tissues. The white corpuscles are, therefore, not confined to the blood vessels, as
are the red corpuscles, but migrate through the intercellular spaces (Fig. 10). If any part
of the body becomes inflamed, the white corpuscles collect there in large numbers; and, on
breaking down, they form most of the white portion of the sore, called the pus.

New white corpuscles are formed from old ones, by cell-division. Their production may occur
in almost any part of the body, but usually takes place in the lymphatic glands (Chapter VI)
and in the spleen, where conditions for their development are especially favorable. In these
places they are found in great abundance and in various stages of development.

*Functions of White Corpuscles.*—The main use of the white corpuscles appears to be that of
a destroyer of disease germs. These consist of minute organisms that find their way into the
body and, by living upon the tissues and fluids and by depositing toxins (poisons) in them,
cause different forms of disease. Besides destroying germs that may be present in the blood,
the white corpuscles also leave the blood and attack germs that have invaded the cells. By
forming a kind of wall around any foreign substance, such as a splinter, that has penetrated
the skin, they are able to prevent the spread of germs through the body. In a similar manner
they also prevent the germs from boils, abscesses, and sore places in general from getting
to and infecting other parts of the body.(10) Another function ascribed to the white corpuscles
is that of aiding in the coagulation of the blood (page 31); and still another, of aiding in
the healing of wounds.

*Plasma.*—The plasma is a complex liquid, being made up of water and of substances dissolved
in the water. The dissolved substances consist mainly of foods for the cells and wastes from
the cells.

1. The foods represent the same classes of materials as are taken in the daily fare, i.e.,
proteids, carbohydrates, fats, and salts (Chapter IX). Three kinds of proteids are found in
the plasma, called serum albumin, serum globulin, and fibrinogen. These resemble, in a general
way, the white of raw egg, but differ from each other in the readiness with which they coagulate.
Fibrinogen coagulates more readily than the others and is the only one that changes in the
ordinary coagulation of the blood. The others remain dissolved during this process, but are
coagulated by chemical agents and by heat. While all of the proteids probably serve as food
for the cells, the fibrinogen, in addition, is a necessary factor in the coagulation of the
blood (page 31).

The only representative of the carbohydrates in the plasma is dextrose. This is a variety of
sugar, being derived from starch and the different sugars that are eaten. The fat in the plasma
is in minute quantities and appears as fine droplets—the form in which it is found in milk.
While several mineral salts are present in small quantities in the plasma, sodium chloride,
or common salt, is the only one found in any considerable amount. The mineral salts serve various
purposes, one of which is to cause the proteids to dissolve in the plasma.

2. The wastes are formed at the cells, whence they are passed by the lymph into the blood plasma.
They are carried by the blood until removed by the organs of excretion. The two waste products
found in greatest abundance in the plasma are carbon dioxide and urea.

The substances dissolved in the plasma form about 10 per cent of the whole amount. The remaining
90 per cent is water. Practically all the constituents of the plasma, except the wastes, enter
the blood from the digestive organs.

*Purposes of Water in the Blood.*—Not only is water the most abundant constituent of the blood;
it is, in some respects, the most important. It is the liquefying portion of the blood, holding
in solution the constituents of the plasma and floating the corpuscles. Deprived of its water,
the blood becomes a solid substance. Through the movements of the blood the water also serves
the purpose of a transporting agent in the body. The cells in all parts of the body require
water and this is supplied to them from the blood. Water is present in the corpuscles as well
as in the plasma and forms about 80 per cent of the entire volume of the blood.

*Coagulation of the Blood.*—If the blood is exposed to some unnatural condition, such as occurs
when it escapes from the blood vessels, it undergoes a peculiar change known as coagulation.(11)
In this change the corpuscles are collected into a solid mass, known as the clot, thereby separating
from a liquid called the serum. The serum, which is similar in appearance to the blood plasma,
differs from that liquid in one important respect as explained below.

*Causes of Coagulation.*—Although coagulation affects all parts of the blood, only one of its
constituents is found in reality to coagulate. This is the fibrinogen. The formation of the
clot and the separation of the serum is due almost entirely to the action of this substance.
Fibrinogen is for this reason called the coagulable constituent of the blood. In the plasma
the fibrinogen is in a liquid form; but during coagulation it changes into a white, stringy
solid, called fibrin. This appears in the clot and is the cause of its formation. Forming as
a network of exceedingly fine and very delicate threads (Fig. 11) throughout the mass of blood
that is coagulating, the fibrin first entangles the corpuscles and then, by contracting, draws
them into the solid mass or clot.(12) The contracting of the fibrin also squeezes out the serum.
This liquid contains all the constituents of the plasma except the fibrinogen.

                                [Fig. 11]

 Fig. 11—*Fibrin threads* (after Ranvier). These by contracting draw the
                  corpuscles together and form the clot.

*Fibrin Ferment and Calcium.*—Most difficult of all to answer have been the questions: What
causes the blood to coagulate outside of the blood vessels and what prevents its coagulation
inside of these vessels? The best explanation offered as yet upon this point is as follows:
Fibrinogen does not of itself change into fibrin, but is made to undergo this change by the
presence of another substance, called fibrin ferment. This substance is not a regular constituent
of the blood, but is formed as occasion requires. It is supposed to result from the breaking
down of the white corpuscles, and perhaps also from the blood platelets, when the blood is
exposed to unnatural conditions. The formation of the ferment leads in turn to the changing
of the fibrinogen into fibrin.

