Could what?" my husband asked in an aerated tone of voice.

I had to gulp before I got it out.

"Could kiss a woman like that," I managed to explain.

Duncan Argyll McKail looked at me with a much cooler eye than I had expected. If he saw my
shudder, he paid no attention to it.

"On much the same principle," he quietly announced, "that the Chinese eat birds' nests."

"Just what do you mean by that?" I demanded, resenting the fact that he could stand as silent
as a December beehive before my morosely questioning eyes.

"I mean that, being married, you've run away with the idea that all birds' nests are made out
of mud and straw, with possibly a garnish of horse hairs. But if you'd really examine these
edible nests you'd find they were made of surprisingly appealing and succulent tendrils. They're
quite appetizing, you may be sure, or they'd never be eaten!"

I stood turning this over, exactly as I've seen my Dinkie turn over an unexpectedly rancid nut.

"Aren't you, under the circumstances, being rather stupidly clever?" I finally asked.

"When I suppose you'd rather see me cleverly stupid?" he found the heart to suggest.

"But that woman, to me, always looked like a frog," I protested, doing my best to duplicate
his pose of impersonality.

"Well, she doesn't make love like a frog," he retorted with his first betraying touch of anger.
I turned to the window, to the end that my Eliza-Crossing-the-Ice look wouldn't be entirely
at his mercy. A belated March blizzard was slapping at the panes and cuffing the house-corners.
At the end of a long winter, I knew, tempers were apt to be short. But this was much more than
a matter of barometers. The man I'd wanted to live with like a second "Suzanne de Sirmont"
in Daudet's Happiness had not only cut me to the quick but was rubbing salt in the wound. He
had said what he did with deliberate intent to hurt me, for it was only too obvious that he
was tired of being on the defensive. And it did hurt. It couldn't help hurting. For the man,
after all, was my husband. He was the husband to whom I'd given up the best part of my life,
the two-legged basket into which I'd packed all my eggs of allegiance. And now he was scrambling
that precious collection for a cheap omelette of amorous adventure. He was my husband, I kept
reminding myself. But that didn't cover the entire case. No husband whose heart is right stands
holding another woman's shoulder and tries to read her shoe-numbers through her ardently upturned
eyes. It shows the wind is not blowing right in the home circle. It shows a rent in the dyke,
a flaw in the blade, a breach in the fortress-wall of faith. For marriage, to the wife who
is a mother as well, impresses me as rather like the spliced arrow of the Esquimos: it is cemented
together with blood. It is a solemn matter. And for the sake of mutter-schutz, if for nothing
else, it must be kept that way.

There was a time, I suppose, when the thought of such a thing would have taken my breath away,
would have chilled me to the bone. But I'd been through my refining fires, in that respect,
and you can't burn the prairie over twice in the same season. I tried to tell myself it was
the setting, and not the essential fact, that seemed so odious. I did my best to believe it
wasn't so much that Duncan Argyll McKail had stooped to make advances to this bandy-legged
she-teacher whom I'd so charitably housed at Casa Grande since the beginning of the year--for
I'd long since learned not to swallow the antique claim that of all terrestrial carnivora only
man and the lion are truly monogamous--but more the fact it had been made such a back-stairs
affair with no solitary redeeming touch of dignity.

Dinky-Dunk, I suppose, would have laughed it away, if I hadn't walked in on them with their
arms about each other, and the bandy-legged one breathing her capitulating sighs into his ear.
But there was desperation in the eyes of Miss Alsina Teeswater, and it was plain to see that
if my husband had been merely playing with fire it had become a much more serious matter with
the lady in the case. There was, in fact, something almost dignifying in that strickenly defiant
face of hers. I was almost sorry for her when she turned and walked white-lipped out of the
room. What I resented most, as I stood facing my husband, was his paraded casualness, his refusal
to take a tragic situation tragically. His attitude seemed to imply that we were about to have
a difference over a small thing--over a small thing with brown eyes. He could even stand inspecting
me with a mildly amused glance, and I might have forgiven his mildness, I suppose, if it had
been without amusement, and that amusement in some way at my expense. He even managed to laugh
as I stood there staring at him. It was neither an honest nor a natural laugh. It merely gave
me the feeling that he was trying to entrench himself behind a raw mound of mirth, that any
shelter was welcome until the barrage was lifted.

"And what do you intend doing about it?" I asked, more quietly than I had imagined possible.

"What would you suggest?" he parried, as he began to feel in his pockets for his pipe.

And I still had a sense, as I saw the barricaded look come into his face, of entrenchments
being frantically thrown up. I continued to stare at him as he found his pipe and proceeded
to fill it. I even wrung a ghostly satisfaction out of the discovery that his fingers weren't
so steady as he might have wished them to be.

"I suppose you're trying to make me feel like the Wicked Uncle edging away from the abandoned
Babes in the Woods?" he finally demanded, as though exasperated by my silence. He was delving
for matches by this time, and seemed disappointed that none was to be found in his pockets.
I don't know why he should seem to recede from me, for he didn't move an inch from where he
stood with that defensively mocking smile on his face. But abysmal gulfs of space seemed to
blow in like sea-mists between him and me, desolating and lonely stretches of emptiness which
could never again be spanned by the tiny bridges of hope. I felt alone, terribly alone, in
a world over which the last fire had swept and the last rains had fallen. My throat tightened
and my eyes smarted from the wave of self-pity which washed through my body. It angered me,
ridiculously, to think that I was going to break down at such a time.

But the more I thought over it the more muddled I grew. There was something maddening in the
memory that I was unable to act as my instincts prompted me to act, that I couldn't, like the
outraged wife of screen and story, walk promptly out of the door and slam it epochally shut
after me. But modern life never quite lives up to its fiction. And we are never quite free,
we women who have given our hostages to fortune, to do as we wish. We have lives other than
our own to think about.

"But it's all been so--so dishonest!" I cried out, stopping myself in the middle of a gesture
which might have seemed like wringing my hands.

That, apparently, gave Dinky-Dunk something to get his teeth into. The neutral look went out
of his eye, to be replaced by a fortifying stare of enmity.

"I don't know as it's any more dishonest than the long-distance brand of the same thing!"

I knew, at once, what he meant. He meant Peter. He meant poor old Peter Ketley, whose weekly
letter, year in and year out, came as regular as clockwork to Casa Grande. Those letters came
to my son Dinkie, though it couldn't be denied they carried many a cheering word and many a
companionable message to Dinkie's mother. But it brought me up short, to think that my own
husband would try to play cuttle-fish with a clean-hearted and a clean-handed man like Peter.
The wave that went through my body, on this occasion, was one of rage. I tried to say something,
but I couldn't. The lion of my anger had me down, by this time, with his paw on my breast.
The power of speech was squeezed out of my carcass. I could only stare at my husband with a
denuding and devastating stare of incredulity touched with disgust, of abhorrence skirting
dangerously close along the margins of hate. And he stared back, with morose and watchful defiance
on his face.

Heaven only knows how it would have ended, if that tableau hadn't gone smash, with a sudden
offstage clatter and thump and cry which reminded me there were more people in the world than
Chaddie McKail and her philandering old husband. For during that interregnum of parental preoccupation
Dinkie and Poppsy had essayed to toboggan down the lower half of the front-stairs in an empty
drawer commandeered from my bedroom dresser. Their descent, apparently, had been about as precipitate
as that of their equally adventurous sire down the treads of my respect, for they had landed
in a heap on the hardwood floor of the hall and I found Dinkie with an abraded shin-bone and
Poppsy with a cut lip. My Poppsy was more frightened at the sight of blood than actually hurt
by her fall, and Dinkie betrayed a not unnatural tendency to enlarge on his injuries in extenuation
of his offense. But that suddenly imposed demand for first-aid took my mind out of the darker
waters in which it had been wallowing, and by the time I had comforted my kiddies and completed
my ministrations Dinky-Dunk had quietly escaped from the house and my accusatory stares by
clapping on his hat and going out to the stables....

And that's the scene which keeps pacing back and forth between the bars of my brain like a
jaguar in a circus-cage. That's the scene I've been living over, for the last few days, thinking
of all the more brilliant things I might have said and the more expedient things I might have
done. And that's the scene which has been working like yeast at the bottom of my sodden batter
of contentment, making me feel that I'd swell up and burst, if all that crazy ferment couldn't
find some relief in expression. So after three long years and more of silence I'm turning back
to this, the journal of one irresponsible old Chaddie McKail, who wanted so much to be happy
and who has in some way missed the pot of gold that they told her was to be found at the rainbow's
end.

It seems incredible, as I look back, that more than three, long years should slip away without
the penning of one line in this, the safety-valve of my soul. But the impulse to write rather
slipped away from me. It wasn't that there was so little to record, for life is always life.
But when it burns clearest it seems to have the trick of consuming its own smoke and leaving
so very little ash. The crowded even tenor of existence goes on, with its tidal ups and downs,
too listlessly busy to demand expression. Then the shock of tempest comes, and it's only after
we're driven out of them that we realize we've been drifting so long in the doldrums of life.
Then it comes home to us that there are the Dark Ages in the history of a woman exactly as
there were the Dark Ages in the history of Europe. Life goes on in those Dark Ages, but it
doesn't feel the call to articulate itself, to leave a record of its experiences. And that
strikes me, as I sit here and think of it, as about the deepest tragedy that can overtake anything
on this earth. Nothing, after all, is sadder than silence, the silence of dead civilizations
and dead cities and dead souls. And nothing is more costly. For beauty itself, in actual life,
passes away, but beauty lovingly recorded by mortal hands endures and goes down to our children.
And I stop writing, at that word of "children," for miraculously, as I repeat it, I see it
cut a window in the unlighted house of my heart. And that window is the bright little Gothic
oriel which will always be golden and luminous with love and will always send the last shadow
scurrying away from the mustiest corner of my tower of life. I have my Dinkie and my Poppsy,
and nothing can take them away from me. It's on them that I pin my hope.

Sunday the Seventeenth

I've been thinking a great deal over what's happened this last week or so. And I've been trying
to reorganize my life, the same as you put a house to rights after a funeral. But it wasn't
a well-ordered funeral, in this case, and I was denied even the tempered satisfaction of the
bereaved after the finality of a smoothly conducted burial. For nothing has been settled. It's
merely that Time has been trying to encyst what it can not absorb. I felt, for a day or two,
that I had nothing much to live for. I felt like a feather-weight who'd faced a knock-out.
I saw Pride go to the mat, and take the count, and if I was dazed, for a while, I suppose it
was mostly convalescence from shock. Then I tightened my belt, and reminded myself that it
wasn't the first wallop Fate had given me, and remembered that in this life you have to adjust
yourself to your environment or be eliminated from the game. And life, I suppose, has tamed
me, as a man who once loved me said it would do. The older I get the more tolerant I try to
be, and the more I know of this world the more I realize that Right is seldom all on one side
and Wrong on the other. It's a matter of give and take, this problem of traveling in double-harness.
I can even smile a little, as I remember that college day in my teens when Matilda-Anne and
Katrina and Fanny-Rain-in-the-Face and myself solemnly discussed man and his make-up, over
a three-pound box of Maillard's, and resolutely agreed that we would surrender our hearts to
no suitor over twenty-six and marry no male who'd ever loved another woman--not, at least,
unless the situation had become compensatingly romanticized by the death of any such lady preceding
us in our loved one's favor. Little we knew of men and ourselves and the humiliations with
which life breaks the spirit of arrogant youth! For even now, knowing what I know, I've been
doing my best to cooper together a case for my unstable old Dinky-Dunk. I've been trying to
keep the thought of poor dead Lady Alicia out of my head. I've been wondering if there's any
truth in what Dinky-Dunk said, a few weeks ago, about a mere father being like the male of
the warrior-spider whom the female of the species stands ready to dine upon, once she's assured
of her progeny.

I suppose I have given most of my time and attention to my children. And it's as perilous,
I suppose, to give your heart to a man and then take it even partly away again as it is to
give a trellis to a rose-bush and then expect it to stand alone. My husband, too, has been
restless and dissatisfied with prairie life during the last year or so, has been rocking in
his own doldrums of inertia where the sight of even the humblest ship--and the Wandering Sail
in this case always seemed to me as soft and shapeless as a boned squab-pigeon!--could promptly
elicit an answering signal.

But I strike a snag there, for Alsina has not been so boneless as I anticipated. There was
an unlooked-for intensity in her eyes and a mild sort of tragedy in her voice when she came
and told me that she was going to another school in the Knee-Hill country and asked if I could
have her taken in to Buckhorn the next morning. Some one, of course, had to go. There was one
too many in this prairie home that must always remain so like an island dotting the lonely
wastes of a lonely sea. And triangles, oddly enough, seem to flourish best in city squares.
But much as I wanted to talk to Alsina, I was compelled to respect her reserve. I even told
her that Dinkie would miss her a great deal. She replied, with a choke in her voice, that he
was a wonderful child. That, of course, was music to the ears of his mother, and my respect
for the tremulous Miss Teeswater went up at least ten degrees. But when she added, without
meeting my eye, that she was really fond of the boy, I couldn't escape the impression that
she was edging out on very thin ice. It was, I think, only the silent misery in her half-averted
face which kept me from inquiring if she hadn't rather made it a family affair. But that, second
thought promptly told me, would seem too much like striking the fallen. And we both seemed
to feel, thereafter, that silence was best.

Practically nothing passed between us, in fact, until we reached the station. I could see that
she was dreading the ordeal of saying good-by. That unnamed sixth sense peculiar to cab-drivers
and waiters and married women told me that every moment on the bald little platform was being
a torture to her. As the big engine came lumbering up to a standstill she gave me one quick
and searching look. It was a look I shall never forget. For, in it was a question and something
more than a question. An unworded appeal was there, and also an unworded protest. It got past
my outposts of reason, in some way. It came to me in my bitterness like the smell of lilacs
into a sick-room. I couldn't be cruel to that poor crushed outcast who had suffered quite as
much from the whole ignoble affair as I had suffered. I suddenly held out my hand to her, and
she took it, with that hungry questioning look still on her face.

"It's all right," I started to say. But her head suddenly went down between her hunched-up
shoulders. Her body began to shake and tears gushed from her eyes. I had to help her to the
car steps.

"It was all my fault," she said in a strangled voice, between her helpless little sobs.

It was brave of her, of course, and she meant it for the best. But I wish she hadn't said it.
Instead of making everything easier for me, as she intended, she only made it harder. She left
me disturbingly conscious of ghostly heroisms which transposed what I had tried to regard as
essentially ignoble into some higher and purer key. And she made it harder for me to look at
my husband, when I got home, with a calm and collected eye. I felt suspiciously like Lady Macbeth
after the second murder. I felt that we were fellow-sharers of a guilty secret it would never
do to drag too often into the light of every-day life.

But it will no more stay under cover, I find, than a dab-chick will stay under water. It bobs
up in the most unexpected places, as it did last night, when Dinkie publicly proclaimed that
he was going to marry his Mummy when he got big.

"It would be well, my son, not to repeat the mistakes of your father!" observed Dinky-Dunk.
And having said it, he relighted his quarantining pipe and refused to meet my eye. But it didn't
take a surgical operation to get what he meant into my head. It hurt, in more ways than one,
for it struck me as suspiciously like a stone embodied in a snowball--and even our offspring
recognized this as no fair manner of fighting.

"Then it impresses you as a mistake?" I demanded, seeing red, for the coyote in me, I'm afraid,
will never entirely become house-dog.

"Isn't that the way you regard it?" he asked, inspecting me with a non-committal eye.

I had to bite my lip, to keep from flinging out at him the things that were huddled back in
my heart. But it was no time for making big war medicine. So I got the lid on, and held it there.

"My dear Dinky-Dunk," I said with an effort at a gesture of weariness, "I've long since learned
that life can't be made clean, like a cat's body, by the use of the tongue alone!"

Dinky-Dunk did not look at me. Instead, he turned to the boy who was watching that scene with
a small frown of perplexity on his none too approving face.

"You go up to the nursery," commanded my husband, with more curtness than usual.

But before Dinkie went he slowly crossed the room and kissed me. He did so with a quiet resoluteness
which was not without its tacit touch of challenge.

"You may feel that way about the use of the tongue," said my husband as soon as we were alone,
"but I'm going to unload a few things I've been keeping under cover."

He waited for me to say something. But I preferred remaining silent.

"Of course," he floundered on, "I don't want to stop you martyrizing yourself in making a mountain
out of a mole-hill. But I'm getting a trifle tired of this holier-than-thou attitude. And----"

"And?" I prompted, when he came to a stop and sat pushing up his brindled front-hair until
it made me think of the Corean lion on the library mantel, the lion in pottery which we invariably
spoke of as the Dog of Fo. My wintry smile at that resemblance seemed to exasperate him.

"What were you going to say?" I quietly inquired.

"Oh, hell!" he exclaimed, with quite unexpected vigor.

"I hope the children are out of hearing," I reminded him, solemn-eyed.

"Yes, the children!" he cried, catching at the word exactly as a drowning man catches at a
lifebelt. "The children! That's just the root of the whole intolerable situation. This hasn't
been a home for the last three or four years; it's been nothing but a nursery. And about all
I've been is a retriever for a crèche, a clod-hopper to tiptoe about the sacred circle and
see to it there's enough flannel to cover their backs and enough food to put into their stomachs.
I'm an accident, of course, an intruder to be faced with fortitude and borne with patience."

"This sounds quite disturbing," I interrupted. "It almost leaves me suspicious that you are
about to emulate the rabbit and devour your young."

Dinky-Dunk fixed me with an accusatory finger.

"And the fact that you can get humor out of it shows me just how far it has gone," he cried
with a bitterness which quickly enough made me sober again. "And I could stand being deliberately
shut out of your life, and shut out of their lives as far as you can manage it, but I can't
see that it's doing either them or you any particular good."

"But I am responsible for the way in which those children grow up," I said, quite innocent
of the double entendre which brought a dark flush to my husband's none too happy face.

"And I suppose I'm not to contaminate them?" he demanded.

"Haven't you done enough along that line?" I asked.

He swung about, at that, with something dangerously like hate on his face.

"Whose children are they?" he challenged.

"You are their father," I quietly acknowledged. It rather startled me to find Dinky-Dunk regarding
himself as a fur coat and my offspring as moth-eggs which I had laid deep in the pelt of his
life, where we were slowly but surely eating the glory out of that garment and leaving it as
bald as a prairie dog's belly.

"Well, you give very little evidence of it!"

"You can't expect me to turn a cart-wheel, surely, every time I remember it?" was my none too
gracious inquiry. Then I sat down. "But what is it you want me to do?" I asked, as I sat studying
his face, and I felt sorriest for him because he felt sorry for himself.

"That's exactly the point," he averred. "There doesn't seem anything to do. But this can't
go on forever."

"No," I acknowledged. "It seems too much like history repeating itself."

His head went down, at that, and it was quite a long time before he looked up at me again.

"I don't suppose you can see it from my side of the fence?" he asked with a disturbing new
note of humility in his voice.

