THE CELTIC MAGAZINE.

No. I.          NOVEMBER 1875.

INTRODUCTORY.

IN the circular issued, announcing the CELTIC MAGAZINE, we stated that it was to be a Monthly
Periodical, written in English, devoted to the Literature, History, Antiquities, Traditions,
Folk-lore, and the Social and Material Interests of the Celt at Home and Abroad: that it would
be devoted to Celtic subjects generally, and not merely to questions affecting the Scottish
Highlands: that it would afford Reviews of Books on subjects interesting to the Celtic Races—their
Literature, questions affecting the Land—such as Hypothec, Entail, Tenant-right, Sport, Emigration,
Reclamation, and all questions affecting the Landlords, Tenants, and Commerce of the Highlands.
We will also, from time to time, supply Biographical Sketches of eminent Celts at Home and
Abroad, and all the Old Legends connected with the Highlands, as far as we can procure them,
beginning with those of Inverness and Ross shires.

We believe that, under the wiser and more enlightened management now developing itself, there
is room enough in the Highlands for more Men, more Land under cultivation, more Sheep and more
Shepherds, without any diminution of Sport in Grouse or Deer: that there is room enough for
all—for more gallant defenders of our country in time of need, for more produce, more comfort,
and more intelligence. We shall afford a medium for giving expression to these views. When
submitting the first number of the Magazine to the public, we think it proper to indicate our
own opinion on these questions at greater length than we could possibly do in a circular; but,
while doing this, we wish it to be understood that we shall at all times be ready to receive
contributions on both sides, the only conditions being that they be well and temperately written,
and that no side of a question will obtain undue prominence—facts and arguments alone allowed
to work conviction. Thus, we hope to make the Celtic Magazine a mirror of the intelligent opinion
of the Highlands, and of all those interested in its prosperity and progress.

In dealing with Celtic Literature, Antiquities, Traditions, and Folk-lore, we must necessarily
be Conservative. It is impossible for a good Celt to be otherwise than conservative of the
noble History of his Ancestors—in love and in war, in devotion and daring. If any should deem
this feeling on our part a failing, we promise to have something to say for ourselves in future,
and not only give a reason for our faith, but show that we have something in the Highlands
worth conserving.

In dealing with the important question of Sport, we cannot help taking a common sense view
of it. We cannot resist the glaring facts which, staring us in the face, conclusively prove
that the enormous progress made in the Highlands during the last half century, and now rapidly
going on, is mainly due to our Highland Sports. A great amount of nonsense has been said and
written on this question, and an attempt made to hold grouse and deer responsible for the cruel
evictions which have taken place in the North. Arguments, to be of any force, must be founded
on facts; and the facts are, in this case, that it was not grouse or deer which caused the
Highland evictions, but sheep and south country sheep farmers. The question must be argued
as one not between men and deer, but between men and sheep, and sheep against deer. We believe
there is room enough for all under proper restrictions, and, to make room for more men, these
restrictions should be applied to sheep or deer.

We believe that it would be a wise and profitable policy for Landlords as well as for Tenants
to abolish Hypothec and Entail, and to grant compensation for improvements made by the latter.
We are quite satisfied from experience, that the small crofter is quite incapable of profitably
reclaiming much of our Highland Wastes without capital, and at the same time bring up a family.
If he is possessed of the necessary capital, he can employ it much more advantageously elsewhere.
The landlord is the only one who can reclaim to advantage, and he can hardly be expected to
do so on an entailed estate, for the benefit of his successors, at an enormous rate of interest,
payable out of his life-rent. If we are to reclaim successfully and to any extent, Entail must
go; and the estates will then be justly burdened with the money laid out in their permanent
improvement. The proprietor in possession will have an interest in improving the estate for
himself and for his successors, and the latter, who will reap the greatest benefit, will have
to pay the largest share of the cost.

Regarding Emigration, we have a matured opinion that while it is a calamity for the country
generally, and for employers of labour and farmers in particular that able-bodied men and women
should be leaving the country in their thousands, we unhesitatingly assert that it is far wiser
for these men and women to emigrate to countries where their labour is of real value to them,
and where they can spend it improving land which will not only be found profitable during their
lives, but which will be their own and their descendants freehold for ever, than to continue
starving themselves and their children on barren patches and crofts of four or five acres of
unproductive land in the Highlands. We have experienced all the charms of a Highland croft,
as one of a large family, and we unhesitatingly say, that we cannot recommend it to any able-bodied
person who can leave it for a more promising outlet for himself and family. While we are of
this opinion regarding voluntary emigration, we have no hesitation in designating forced evictions
by landlords as a crime deserving the reprobation of all honest men.

We shall also have something to say regarding the Commercial Interests of the Highlands—its
trade and manufactures, and the abominable system of long Credit which is, and has proved,
so ruinous to the tradesman; and which, at the same time, necessarily enhances the price of
all goods and provisions to the retail cash buyer and prompt payer. On all these questions,
and many others, we shall from time to time give our views at further length, as well as the
views of those who differ from us. We shall, at least, spare no effort to deserve success.

The HIGHLAND CEILIDH will be commenced in the next number, and continued from month to month.
Under this heading will be given Highland Legends, Old Unpublished Gaelic Poetry, Riddles,
Proverbs, Traditions, and Folk-lore.

MACAULAY'S TREATMENT OF OSSIAN.

"IT's an ill bird that befouls its own nest." And this is the first count of the indictment
we bring against Lord Macaulay for his treatment of Ossian. Macpherson was a Highlandman, and
Ossian's Poems were the glory of the Highlands; Macaulay was sprung from a Highland family,
and as a Highlandman, even had his estimate of Ossian been lower than it was, he should have,
in the name of patriotism, kept it to himself. But great as was Macaulay's enthusiasm, scarce
a ray of it was ever permitted to rest on the Highland hills; and glowing as his eloquence,
it had no colours and no favours to spare for the natale solum of his sires. Unlike Sir Walter
Scott, it can never be said of him that he shall, after columns and statues have perished,—

    A mightier monument command—
    The mountains of his native land.

There are scattered sneers at Ossian's Poems throughout Macaulay's Essays, notably in his papers
on Dryden and Dr Johnson. Macaulay here speaks like a heated haranguer or Parliamentary partizan,
not like an historian or a critic. Hood says—"It is difficult to swear in a whisper"; and surely
it is more difficult still to criticise in a bellow. This indeed points to what is Macaulay's
main defect as a thinker and writer. He is essentially a dogmatist. He "does not allow for
the wind." "Mark you his absolute shall," as was said of Coriolanus. No doubt his dogmatism,
as was also that of Dr Johnson, is backed by immense knowledge and a powerful intellect, but
it remains dogmatism still. In oratory excessive emphasis often carries all before it, but
it is different in writing—there it is sure to provoke opposition and to defeat its own object.
Had he spoken of Macpherson's stilted style, or his imperfect taste, few would have contradicted
him, but the word "trash" startles and exasperates, and it does so because it is unjust; it
is too slump and too summary. Had he said that critics had exaggerated Macpherson's merits,
this too had been permitted to pass, but when he declared them in his writings to be entirely
"without merit," he insults the public which once read them so greedily, and those great men
too who have enthusiastically admired and discriminatingly praised them. Macpherson's connection
with these Poems has a mystery about it, and he was probably to blame, but every one feels
the words, "the impostor who fabricated these forgeries," to be much too strong, and is disposed,
in the resistance and reaction of feeling produced, to become so far Macpherson's friend and
so far Macaulay's foe. We regret this seeming strength, but real infirmity, of Macaulay's mode
of writing—not merely because it has hurt his credit as a critic of Ossian, but because it
has injured materially his influence as an historian of England. The public are not disposed,
with all their admiration of talents and eloquence, to pardon in an historian faults of boyish
petulance, prejudice, and small personal or political prepossessions, which they would readily
forgive in an orator. Macaulay himself, we think, somewhere speaking of Fox's history, says
that many parts of it sound as if they were thundered from the Opposition Benches at one or
two in the morning, and mentions this as a defect in the book. The same objection applies to
many parts of his own history. His sweeping character of Macpherson is precisely such a hot
hand-grenade as he might in an excited mood have hurled in Parliament against some Celtic M.P.
from Aberdeen or Thurso whose zeal had outrun his discretion.

