D.W.]

A WOODLAND QUEEN ('Reine des Bois')

By ANDRE THEURIET

With a Preface by MELCHIOR DE VOGUE, of the French academy

ANDRE THEURIET

CLAUDE-ADHEMAR-ANDRE THEURIET was born at Marly-le-Roi (Seine et Oise), October 8,1833.  His
ancestors came from Lorraine.  He was educated at Bar-le-Duc and went to Paris in 1854 to study
jurisprudence.  After finishing his courses he entered the Department of the Treasury, and
after an honorable career there, resigned as chef-de-bureau.  He is a poet, a dramatist, but,
above all, a writer of great fiction.

As early as 1857 the poems of Theuriet were printed in the 'Revue de Paris' and the 'Revue
des Deux Mondes'.  His greatest novel, 'Reine des Bois' (Woodland Queen), was crowned by the
Academie Francaise in 1890. To the public in general he became first known in 1870 by his 'Nouvelles
Intimes'.  Since that time he has published a great many volumes of poems, drama, and fiction.
A great writer, he perhaps meets the wishes of that large class of readers who seek in literature
agreeable rest and distraction, rather than excitement or aesthetic gratification.  He is one
of the greatest spirits that survived the bankruptcy of Romanticism. He excels in the description
of country nooks and corners; of that polite rusticity which knows nothing of the delving laborers
of 'La Terre', but only of graceful and learned leisure, of solitude nursed in revery, and
of passion that seems the springtide of germinating nature.  He possesses great originality
and the passionate spirit of a 'paysagiste': pictures of provincial life and family-interiors
seem to appeal to his most pronounced sympathies.  His taste is delicate, his style healthy
and frank, and at the same time limpid and animated.

After receiving, in 1890, the Prix Vitet for the ensemble of his literary productions, he was
elected to the Academy in 1896.  To the stage Theuriet has given 'Jean-Marie', drama in verses
(Odeon, February 11, 1871).  It is yet kept on the repertoire together with his 'Maison de
deux Barbeaux (1865), Raymonde (1887), and Les Maugars (1901).'

His novels, tales, and poems comprise a long list.  'Le Bleu et le Noir' (1873) was also crowned
by the Academy.  Then followed, at short intervals: 'Mademoiselle Guignon (1874.); Le Mariage
de Gerard (1875); La Fortune d'Angele (1876); Raymonde (1877),' a romance of modern life, vastly
esteemed by the reading public; 'Le Don Juan de Vireloup (1877); Sous Bois, Impressions d'un
Forestier (1878); Le Filleul d'un Marquis (1878); Les Nids (1879); Le fils Maugars (1879);
La Maison de deux Barbeaux (1879); Toute seule (1880); Sauvageonne (1880), his most realistic
work; Les Enchantements de la Foret (1881); Le Livre de la Payse (poetry, 1882); Madame Heurteloup
(1882); Peche de Jeunesse (1883); Le Journal de Tristan, mostly autobiographical; Bigarreau
(1885); Eusebe Lombard (1885); Les OEillets de Kerlatz (1885); Helene (1886); Nos Oiseaux (beautiful
verses, 1886); La Vie Rustique (1887); Amour d'Automne (1888); Josette (1888); Deux Soeurs
(1889); Contes pour les Soirs d'Hiver (1890); Charme Dangereux (1891); La Ronde des Saisons
et des Mois (1889); La Charmeresse (1891); Fleur de Nice (1896); Bois Fleury (1897); Refuge
(1898); Villa Tranquille (1899); Claudette (1900); La Petite Derniere (1901); Le Manuscrit
du Chanoine (1902), etc.

Besides this abundant production Andre Theuriet has also contributed to
various journals and magazines: 'Le Moniteur, Le Musee Universal,
L'Illustration, Le Figaro, Le Gaulois, La Republique Francaise, etc.; he
has lectured in Belgium, Holland, and Switzerland, and has even found
leisure to fill the post as Mayor of Bourg-la-Reine (Seine et Oise),
perhaps no onerous office (1882-1900).  He has also been an 'Officier de
la Legion d'Honneur' since 1895.
                                   MELCHIOR DE VOGUE
                              de l'Academie Francaise.

A WOODLAND QUEEN

BOOK 1.

CHAPTER I

THE UNFINISHED WILL

Toward the middle of October, about the time of the beechnut harvest, M. Eustache Destourbet,
justice of the Peace of Auberive, accompanied by his clerk, Etienne Seurrot, left his home
at Abbatiale, in order to repair to the Chateau of Vivey, where he was to take part in removing
the seals on some property whose owner had deceased.

At that period, 1857, the canton of Auberive, which stretches its massive forests like a thick
wall between the level plain of Langres and the ancient Chatillonais, had but one main road
of communication: that from Langres to Bar-sur-Aube.  The almost parallel adjacent route, from
Auberive to Vivey, was not then in existence; and in order to reach this last commune, or hamlet,
the traveller had to follow a narrow grass- bordered path, leading through the forest up the
hill of Charboniere, from the summit of which was seen that intermingling of narrow gorges
and wooded heights which is so characteristic of this mountainous region.  On all sides were
indented horizons of trees, among which a few, of more dominant height, projected their sharp
outlines against the sky; in the distance were rocky steeps, with here and there a clump of
brambles, down which trickled slender rivulets; still farther, like little islands, half submerged
in a sea of foliage, were pastures of tender green dotted with juniper bushes, almost black
in their density, and fields of rye struggling painfully through the stony soil--the entire
scene presenting a picture of mingled wildness and cultivation, aridity and luxuriant freshness.

Justice Destourbet, having strong, wiry limbs, ascended cheerily the steep mountain-path. 
His tall, spare figure, always in advance of his companion, was visible through the tender
green of the young oaks, clothed in a brown coat, a black cravat, and a very high hat, which
the justice, who loved correctness in details, thought it his duty to don whenever called upon
to perform his judicial functions.  The clerk, Seurrot, more obese, and of maturer age, protuberant
in front, and somewhat curved in the back, dragged heavily behind, perspiring and out of breath,
trying to keep up with his patron, who, now and then seized with compassion, would come to
a halt and wait for his subordinate.

"I trust," said Destourbet, after one of these intervals which enabled the clerk to walk by
his side, "I trust we shall find Maitre Arbillot down there; we shall have need of his services
in looking over and filing the papers of the deceased."

"Yes, Monsieur," answered Seurrot, "the notary will meet us at the chateau; he went to Praslay
to find out from his associates whether Monsieur de Buxieres had not left a will in his keeping.
In my humble opinion, that is hardly likely; for the deceased had great confidence in Maitre
Arbillot, and it seems strange that he should choose to confide his testamentary intentions
to a rival notary."

"Well," observed the justice, "perhaps when the seals are raised, we may discover an autograph
will in some corner of a drawer."

"It is to be hoped so, Monsieur," replied Seurrot; "I wish it with all my heart, for the sake
of Claudet Sejournant, for he is a good fellow, although on the sinister bar of the escutcheon,
and a right jolly companion."

"Yes; and a marvellous good shot," interrupted the justice.  "I recognize all that; but even
if he had a hundred other good qualities, the grand chasserot, as they call him here, will
be on the wrong side of the hedge if Monsieur de Buxieres has unfortunately died intestate.
In the eye of the law, as you are doubtless aware, a natural child, who has not been acknowledged,
is looked upon as a stranger."

"Monsieur de Buxieres always treated Claudet as his own son, and every one knew that he so
considered him."

"Possibly, but if the law were to keep count of all such cases, there would be no end to their
labors; especially in all questions of the 'cujus'.  Odouart de Buxieres was a terribly wild
fellow, and they say that these old beech-trees of Vivey forest could tell many a tale of his
exploits."

"He, he!"  assented the clerk, laughing slyly, and showing his toothless gums, "there is some
truth in that.  The deceased had the devil in his boots.  He could see neither a deer nor a
pretty girl without flying in pursuit.  Ah, yes!  Many a trick has he played them--talk of
your miracles, forsooth!--well, Claudet was his favorite, and Monsieur de Buxieres has told
me, over and over again, that he would make him his heir, and I shall be very much astonished
if we do not find a will."

"Seurrot, my friend," replied the justice, calmly, "you are too experienced not to know that
our country folks dread nothing so much as testifying to their last wishes--to make a will,
to them, is to put one foot into the grave.  They will not call in the priest or the notary
until the very last moment, and very often they delay until it is too late.  Now, as the deceased
was at heart a rustic, I fear greatly that he did not carry his intentions into execution."

"That would be a pity--for the chateau, the lands, and the entire fortune would go to an heir
of whom Monsieur Odouart never had taken account-- to one of the younger branch of Buxieres,
whom he had never seen, having quarrelled with the family."

"A cousin, I believe," said the justice.

"Yes, a Monsieur Julien de Buxieres, who is employed by the Government at Nancy."

"In fact, then, and until we receive more ample information, he is, for us, the sole legitimate
heir.  Has he been notified?"

"Yes, Monsieur.  He has even sent his power of attorney to Monsieur Arbillot's clerk."

"So much the better," said M. Destourbet, "in that case, we can proceed regularly without delay."

While thus conversing, they had traversed the forest, and emerged on the hill overlooking Vivey.
From the border line where they stood, they could discover, between the half-denuded branches
of the line of aspens, the sinuous, deepset gorge, in which the Aubette wound its tortuous
way, at the extremity of which the village lay embanked against an almost upright wall of thicket
and pointed rocks.  On the west this narrow defile was closed by a mill, standing like a sentinel
on guard, in its uniform of solid gray; on each side of the river a verdant line of meadow
led the eye gradually toward the clump of ancient and lofty ash-trees, behind which rose the.
Buxieres domicile.  This magnificent grove of trees, and a monumental fence of cast-iron, were
the only excuse for giving the title of chateau to a very commonplace structure, of which the
main body presented bare, whitewashed walls, flanked by two small towers on turrets shaped
like extinguishers, and otherwise resembling very ordinary pigeon-houses.

This chateau, or rather country squire's residence, had belonged to the Odouart de Buxieres
for more than two centuries.  Before the Revolution, Christophe de Buxieres, grandfather of
the last proprietor, had owned a large portion of Vivey, besides several forges in operation
on the Aube and Aubette rivers.  He had had three children: one daughter, who had embraced
religion as a vocation; Claude Antoine, the elder son, to whom he left his entire fortune,
and Julien Abdon, the younger, officer in the regiment of Rohan Soubise, with whom he was not
on good terms.  After emigrating and serving in Conde's army, the younger Buxieres had returned
to France during the Restoration, had married, and been appointed special receiver in a small
town in southern France.  But since his return, he had not resumed relations with his elder
brother, whom he accused of having defrauded him of his rights.  The older one had married
also, one of the Rochetaillee family; he had had but one son, Claude Odouart de Buxieres, whose
recent decease had brought about the visit of the Justice of Auberive and his clerk.

Claude de Buxieres had lived all his life at Vivey.  Inheriting from his father and grandfather
flourishing health and a robust constitution, he had also from them strong love for his native
territory, a passion for the chase, and a horror of the constraint and decorum exacted by worldly
obligations.  He was a spoiled child, brought up by a weak-minded mother and a preceptor without
authority, who had succeeded in imparting to him only the most elementary amount of instruction,
and he had, from a very early age, taken his own pleasure as his sole rule of life.  He lived
side by side with peasants and poachers, and had himself become a regular country yeoman, wearing
a blouse, dining at the wine-shop, and taking more pleasure in speaking the mountain patois
than his own native French. The untimely death of his father, killed by an awkward huntsman
while following the hounds, had emancipated him at the age of twenty years. From this period
he lived his life freely, as he understood it; always in the open air, without hindrance of
any sort, and entirely unrestrained.

Nothing was exaggerated in the stories told concerning him.  He was a handsome fellow, jovial
and dashing in his ways, and lavish with his money, so he met with few rebuffs.  Married women,
maids, widows, any peasant girl of attractive form or feature, all had had to resist his advances,
and with more than one the resistance had been very slight. It was no false report which affirmed
that he had peopled the district with his illegitimate progeny.  He was not hard to please,
either; strawberry-pickers, shepherd-girls, wood-pilers, day-workers, all were equally charming
in his sight; he sought only youth, health, and a kindly disposition.

Marriage would have been the only safeguard for him; but aside from the fact that his reputation
of reckless huntsman and general scapegrace naturally kept aloof the daughters of the nobles,
and even the Langarian middle classes, he dreaded more than anything else in the world the
monotonous regularity of conjugal life.  He did not care to be restricted always to the same
dishes--preferring, as he said, his meat sometimes roast, sometimes boiled, or even fried,
according to his humor and his appetite.

Nevertheless, about the time that Claude de Buxieres attained his thirty- sixth year, it was
noticed that he had a more settled air, and that his habits were becoming more sedentary. 
The chase was still his favorite pastime, but he frequented less places of questionable repute,
seldom slept away from home, and seemed to take greater pleasure in remaining under his own
roof.  The cause of this change was ascribed by some to the advance of years creeping over
him; others, more perspicacious, verified a curious coincidence between the entrance of a new
servant in the chateau and the sudden good behavior of Claude.

This girl, a native of Aprey, named Manette Sejournant, was not, strictly speaking, a beauty,
but she had magnificent blonde hair, gray, caressing eyes, and a silvery, musical voice.  Well
built, supple as an adder, modest and prudish in mien, she knew how to wait upon and cosset
her master, accustoming him by imperceptible degrees to prefer the cuisine of the chateau to
that of the wine-shops.  After a while, by dint of making her merits appreciated, and her presence
continually desired, she became the mistress of Odouart de Buxieres, whom she managed to retain
by proving herself immeasurably superior, both in culinary skill and in sentiment, to the class
of females from whom he had hitherto been seeking his creature comforts.

Matters went on in this fashion for a year or so, until Manette went on a three months' vacation.
When she reappeared at the chateau, she brought with her an infant, six weeks old, which she
declared was the child of a sister, lately deceased, but which bore a strange likeness to Claude.
However, nobody made remarks, especially as M. de Buxieres, after he had been drinking a little,
took no pains to hide his paternity.  He himself held the little fellow at the baptismal font,
and later, consigned him to the care of the Abbe Pernot, the curate of Vivey, who prepared
the little Claudet for his first communion, at the same time that he instructed him in reading,
writing, and the first four rules of arithmetic.  As soon as the lad reached his fifteenth
year, Claude put a gun into his hands, and took him hunting with him.  Under the teaching of
M. de Buxieres, Claudet did honor to his master, and soon became such an expert that he could
give points to all the huntsmen of the canton.  None could equal him in tracing a dog; he knew
all the passes, by-paths, and enclosures of the forest; swooped down upon the game with the
keen scent and the velocity of a bird of prey, and never was known to miss his mark.  Thus
it was that the country people surnamed him the 'grand chasserot', the term which we here apply
to the sparrow-hawk.  Besides all these advantages, he was handsome, alert, straight, and well
made, dark-haired and olive- skinned, like all the Buxieres; he had his mother's caressing
glance, but also the overhanging eyelids and somewhat stern expression of his father, from
whom he inherited also a passionate temperament, and a spirit averse to all kinds of restraint.
They were fond of him throughout the country, and M. de Buxieres, who felt his youth renewed
in him, was very proud of his adroitness and his good looks.  He would invite him to his pleasure
parties, and make him sit at his own table, and confided unhesitatingly all his secrets to
him.  In short, Claudet, finding himself quite at home at the chateau, naturally considered
himself as one of the family.  There was but one formality wanting to that end: recognizance
according to law. At certain favorable times, Manette Sejournant would gently urge M. de Buxieres
to have the situation legally authorized, to which he would invariably reply, from a natural
dislike to taking legal advisers into his confidence:

"Don't worry about anything; I have no direct heir, and Claudet will have all my fortune; my
will and testament will be worth more to him than a legal acknowledgment."

He would refer so often and so decidedly to his settled intention of making Claudet his sole
heir, that Manette, who knew very little about what was required in such cases, considered
the matter already secure. She continued in unsuspecting serenity until Claude de Buxieres,
in his sixty-second year, died suddenly from a stroke of apoplexy.

The will, which was to insure Claudet's future prospects, and to which the deceased had so
often alluded, did it really exist?  Neither Manette nor the grand chasserot had been able
to obtain any certain knowledge in the matter, the hasty search for it after the decease having
been suddenly interrupted by the arrival of the mayor of Vivey; and by the proceedings of the
justice of the peace.  The seals being once imposed, there was no means, in the absence of
a verified will, of ascertaining on whom the inheritance devolved, until the opening of the
inventory; and thus the Sejournants awaited with feverish anxiety the return of the justice
of the peace and his bailiff.

M. Destourbet and Stephen Seurrot pushed open a small door to the right of the main gateway,
passed rapidly under the arched canopy of beeches, the leaves of which, just touched by the
first frost, were already falling from the branches, and, stamping their muddy feet on the
outer steps, advanced into the vestibule.  The wide corridor, flagged with black-and-white
pavement, presented a cheerless aspect of bare walls discolored by damp, and adorned alternately
by stags' heads and family portraits in a crumbling state of decay.  The floor was thus divided:
on the right, the dining-room and the kitchen; on the left, drawing-room and a billiard-hall.
A stone staircase, built in one of the turrets, led to the upper floors.  Only one of these
rooms, the kitchen, which the justice and his bailiff entered, was occupied by the household.
A cold light, equally diffused in all directions, and falling from a large window, facing north
across the gardens, allowed every detail of the apartment to be seen clearly; opposite the
door of entrance, the tall chimney-place, with its deep embrasure, gave ample shelter to the
notary, who installed himself upon a stool and lighted his pipe at one of the embers, while
his principal clerk sat at the long table, itemizing the objects contained in the inventory.

In the opposite angle of the chimney-place, a lad of twenty-four years, no other than Claudet,
called by the friendly nickname of the grand chasserot, kept company with the notary, while
he toyed, in an absent fashion, with the silky ears of a spaniel, whose fluffy little head
lay in his lap.  Behind him, Manette Sejournant stood putting away her shawl and prayerbook
in a closet.  A mass had been said in the morning at the church, for the repose of the soul
of the late Claude de Buxieres, and mother and son had donned their Sunday garments to assist
at the ceremony.

Claudet appeared ill at ease in his black, tightly buttoned suit, and kept his eyes with their
heavy lids steadily bent upon the head of the animal.  To all the notary's questions, he replied
only by monosyllables, passing his fingers every now and then through his bushy brown locks,
and twining them in his forked beard, a sure indication with him of preoccupation and bad humor.

Manette had acquired with years an amount of embonpoint which detracted materially from the
supple and undulating beauty which had so captivated Claude de Buxieres.  The imprisonment
of a tight corset caused undue development of the bust at the expense of her neck and throat,
which seemed disproportionately short and thick.  Her cheeks had lost their gracious curves
and her double chin was more pronounced.  All that remained of her former attractions were
the caressing glance of her eye, tresses still golden and abundant, especially as seen under
the close cap of black net, white teeth, and a voice that had lost nothing of its insinuating
sweetness.

As the justice and his bailiff entered, Maitre Arbillot, and a petulant little man with squirrel-like
eyes and a small moustache, arose quickly.

"Good-morning, gentlemen," he cried.  "I was anxiously expecting you--if you are willing, we
will begin our work at once, for at this season night comes on quickly."

"At your orders, Maitre Arbillot," replied the justice, laying his hat down carefully on the
window-sill; "we shall draw out the formula for raising the seals.  By the way, has no will
yet been found?"

"None to my knowledge.  It is quite clear to me that the deceased made no testament, none at
least before a notary."

"But," objected M. Destourbet, "he may have executed a holograph testament."

"It is certain, gentlemen," interrupted Manette, with her soft, plaintive voice, "that our
dear gentleman did not go without putting his affairs in order.  'Manette,' said he, not more
than two weeks ago; 'I do not intend you shall be worried, neither you nor Claudet, when I
am no longer here. All shall be arranged to your satisfaction.'  Oh! he certainly must have
put down his last wishes on paper.  Look well around, gentlemen; you will find a will in some
drawer or other."

While she applied her handkerchief ostentatiously to her nose and wiped her eyes, the justice
exchanged glances with the notary.

