'I can't say much for it, my dear. He was suffering terribly with his head, so that I should
have been quite alarmed if he had not said it was apt to get worse in the evening; and she,
poor thing, was only watching him. However, it is a comfort to have matters settled; and papa
and Charlie are well pleased with him. But I must not keep you awake after driving Laura away.
You are not over-tired to-night I hope, my dear?'

'Oh, no; only sleepy. Good night, dearest mamma.'

'Good night, my own Amy;' then, as Amy put back the coverings to show the little face nestled
to sleep on her bosom, 'good night, you little darling! don't disturb your mamma. How comfortable
you look! Good night, my dearest!'

Mrs. Edmonstone looked for a moment, while trying to check the tears that came at the thought
of the night, one brief year ago, when she left Amy sleeping in the light of the Easter moon.
Yet the sense of peace and serenity that had then given especial loveliness to the maiden's
chamber on that night, was there still with the young widow. It was dim lamplight now that
beamed on the portrait of her husband, casting on it the shade of the little wooden cross in
front, while she was shaded by the white curtains drawn from her bed round the infant's little
cot, so as to shut them both into the quiet twilight, where she lay with an expression of countenance
that, though it was not sorrow, made Mrs. Edmonstone more ready to weep than if it had been;
so with her last good night she left her.

And Amabel always liked to be shut in by herself, dearly as she loved them all, and mamma especially;
there was always something pleasant in being able to return to her own world, to rest in the
thoughts of her husband, and in the possession of the little unconscious creature that had
come to inhabit that inner world of hers, the creature that was only his and hers.

She had from the first always felt herself less lonely when quite alone, before with his papers,
and now with his child; and could Mrs. Edmonstone have seen her face, she would have wept and
wondered more, as Amy fondled and hushed her babe, whispering to it fond words which she could
never have uttered in the presence of any one who could understand them, and which had much
of her extreme youthfulness in them. Not one was so often repeated or so endearing as 'Guy's
baby! Guy's own dear little girl!' It did not mean half so much when she called it her baby;
and she loved to tell the little one that her father had been the best and the dearest, but
he was gone away, and would she be contented to be loving and good with only her mother to
take care of her, and tell her, as well as she could, what a father hers was, when she was
old enough to know about him?

To-night, Amy told her much in that soft, solemn, murmuring tone, about what was to befall
her to-morrow, and the great blessings to be given to her, and how the poor little fatherless
one would be embraced in the arms of His mercy, and received by her great Father in heaven:--'Ay,
and brought nearer to your own papa, and know him in some inner way, and he will know his little
child then, for you will be as good and pure and bright as he, and you will belong to the great
communion of saints to-morrow, you precious little one, and be so much nearer to him as you
will be so much better than I. Oh! baby, if we can but both endure to the end!'

With such half-uttered words, Amabel Morville slept the night before her babe's christening.

CHAPTER 41

     A stranger's roof to hold thy head,
     A stranger's foot thy grave to tread;
     Desert and rock, and Alp and sea,
     Spreading between thy home and thee.
                            --SEWELL

Mary Ross was eager for the first report from Hollywell the next morning, and had some difficulty
in keeping her attention fixed on her class at school. Laura and Charlotte came in together
in due time, and satisfied her so far as to tell her that Amy was very well.

'Is Captain Morville come?' thought Mary. 'No, I cannot guess by Laura's impressive face. Never
mind, Charles will tell me all between services.'

The first thing she saw on coming out of school was the pony carriage, with Charles and Captain
Morville himself. Charlotte, who was all excitement, had time to say, while her sister was
out of hearing,--

'It is all made up now, Mary, and I really am very sorry for Philip.'

It was fortunate that Mary understood the amiable meaning this speech was intended to convey,
and she began to enter into its grounds in the short conference after church, when she saw
the alteration in the whole expression of countenance.

'Yes,' said Charles, who as usual remained at the vicarage during the two services, and who
perceived what passed in her mind, 'if it is any satisfaction to you to have a good opinion
of your fellow-sponsor, I assure you that I am converted to Amy's opinion. I do believe the
black dog is off his back for good and all.'

'I never saw any one more changed,' said Mary.

'Regularly tamed,' said Charles. He is something more like his old self to-day than last night,
and yet not much. He was perfectly overpowered then--so knocked up that there was no judging
of him. To-day he has all his sedateness and scrupulous attention, but all like a shadow of
former time--not a morsel of sententiousness, and seeming positively grateful to be treated
in the old fashion.'

'He looks very thin and pale. Do you think him recovered?'

'A good way from it,' said Charles. 'He is pretty well to-day, comparatively, though that obstinate
headache hangs about him. If this change last longer than that and his white looks, I shall
not even grudge him the sponsorship Amy owed me.'

'Very magnanimous!' said Mary. 'Poor Laura! I am glad her suspense is over. I wondered to see
her at school.'

'They are very sad and sober lovers, and it is the best way of not making themselves unbearable,
considering--Well, that was a different matter. How little we should have believed it, if any
one had told us last year what would be the state of affairs to-day. By the bye, Amy's godson
is christened to-day.'

'Who?'

'Didn't you hear that the Ashfords managed to get Amy asked if she would dislike their calling
their boy by that name we shall never hear again, and she was very much pleased, and made offer
in her own pretty way to be godmother. I wonder how Markham endures it! I believe he is nearly
crazy. He wrote me word he should certainly have given up all concern with Redclyffe, but for
the especial desire of--.What a state of mind he will be in, when he remembers how he has been
abusing the captain to me!'

The afternoon was fresh and clear, and there was a spring brightness in the sunshine that Amabel
took as a greeting to her little maiden, as she was carried along the churchyard path. Many
an eye was bent on the mother and child, especially on the slight form, unseen since she had
last walked down the aisle, her arm linked in her bridegroom's.

'Little Amy Edmonstone,' as they had scarcely learnt to cease from calling her, before she
was among them again, the widowed Lady Morville; and with those kind looks of compassion for
her, were joined many affectionate mourning thoughts of the young husband and father, lying
far away in his foreign grave, and endeared by kindly remembrances to almost all present. There
was much of pity for his unconscious infant, and tears were shed at the thought of what the
wife must be suffering; but if the face could have been seen beneath the thick crape folds
of her veil, it would have shown no tears--only a sweet, calm look of peace, and almost gladness.

The babe was on her knees when the time for the christening came; she was awake, and now and
then making a little sound and as she was quieter with her than any one else, Amabel thought
she might herself carry her to the font.

It was deep, grave happiness to stand there, with her child in her arms, and with an undefined
sense that she was not alone as if in some manner her husband was present with her; praying
with her prayers, and joining in offering up their treasure; when the babe was received into
Mr. Ross's arms, and Amy, putting back her veil, gazed up with a wistful but serene look.

'To her life's end?' Therewith came a vision of the sunrise at Recoara, and the more glorious
dawn that had shone in Guy's dying smile, and Amabel knew what would be her best prayer for
his little Mary Verena, as she took her back, the drops glistening on her brow, her eyes open,
and arms outspread. It was at that moment that Amabel was first thrilled with a look in her
child that was like its father. She had earnestly and often sought a resemblance without being
able honestly to own that she perceived any; but now, though she knew not in what it consisted,
there was something in that baby face that recalled him more vividly than picture or memory.

'Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace.'

Those words seemed to come from her own heart. She had brought Guy's daughter to be baptized,
and completed his work of pardon, and she had a yearning to be departing in peace, whither
her sunshine was gone. But he had told her not to wish that his child should be motherless;
she had to train her to be fit to meet him. The sunshine was past, but she had plenty to do
in the shade, and it was for his sake. She would, therefore, be content to remain to fulfil
her duties among the dear ones to whom he had trusted her for comfort, and with the sense of
renewed communion with him that she had found in returning again to church.

So felt Amabel, as she entered into the calm that followed the one year in which she had passed
through the great events of life, and known the chief joy and deepest grief that she could
ever experience.

It was far otherwise with her sister. Laura's term of trouble seemed to be ending, and the
spring of life beginning to dawn on her.

Doubt and fear were past, she and Philip were secure of each other, he was pardoned, and they
could be together without apprehension, or playing tricks with their consciences; but she had
as yet scarcely been able to spend any time with him; and as Charles said, their ways were
far more grave and less lover-like than would have seemed natural after their long separation.

In truth, romantic and uncalculating as their attachment was, they never had been lover-like.
They had never had any fears or doubts; her surrender of her soul had been total, and every
thought, feeling, and judgment had taken its colour from him as entirely as if she had been
a wife of many years' standing. She never opened her mind to perceive that he had led her to
act wrongly, and all her unhappiness had been from anxiety for him, not repentance on her own
account; for so complete was her idolatry, that she entirely overlooked her failure in duty
to her parents.

It took her by surprise when, as they set out together that evening to walk home from East-hill,
he said, as soon as they were apart from the village--

'Laura, you have more to forgive than all.'

'Don't, speak so, Philip, pray don't. Do you think I would not have borne far more unhappiness
willingly for your sake? Is it not all forgotten as if it had not been?'

'It is not unhappiness I meant,' he replied, 'though I cannot bear to think of what you have
undergone. Unhappiness enough have I caused indeed. But I meant, that you have to forgive the
advantage I took of your reliance on me to lead you into error, when you were too young to
know what it amounted to.'

'It was not an engagement,' faltered Laura.

'Laura, don't, for mercy's sake, recall my own hateful sophistries,' exclaimed Philip, as if
unable to control the pain it gave him; 'I have had enough of that from my sister;' then softening
instantly: 'it was self-deceit; a deception first of myself, then of you. You had not experience
enough to know whither I was leading you, till I had involved you; and when the sight of death
showed me the fallacy of the salve to my conscience, I had nothing for it but to confess, and
leave you to bear the consequences. O Laura! when I think of my conduct towards you, it seems
even worse than that towards--towards your brother-in-law!'

His low, stern tone of bitter suffering and self-reproach was something new and frightful to
Laura. She clung to his arm and tried to say--'O, don't speak in that way! You know you meant
the best. You could not help being mistaken.'

'If I did know any such thing, Laura! but the misery of perceiving that my imagined anxiety
for his good,--his good, indeed! was but a cloak for my personal enmity--you can little guess it.'

Laura tried to say that appearances were against Guy, but he would not hear.

'If they were, I triumphed in them. I see now that a shade of honest desire to see him exculpated
would have enabled me to find the clue. If I had gone to St. Mildred's at once--interrogated
him as a friend--seen Wellwood--but dwelling on the ifs of the last two years can bring nothing
but distraction,' he added, pausing suddenly.

'And remember,' said Laura, 'that dear Guy himself was always grateful to you. He always upheld
that you acted for his good. Oh! the way he took it was the one comfort I had last year.'

'The acutest sting, and yet the only balm,' murmured Philip; 'see, Laura,' and he opened the
first leaf of Guy's prayer-book, which he had been using at the christening.

A whispered 'Dear Guy!' was the best answer she could make, and the tears were in her eyes.
'He was so very kind to me, when he saw me that unhappy wedding-day.'

'Did Amy tell you his last words to me?'

'No,' said Laura.

'God bless you and my sister!' he repeated, so low that she could hardly hear.

'Amy left that for you to tell,' said Laura, as her tears streamed fast. How can we speak of
her, Philip?'

'Only as an angel of pardon and peace!' he answered.

'I don't know how to tell you of all her kindness,' said Laura; 'half the bitterness of it
seemed to be over when once she was in the house again, and, all the winter, going into her
room was like going into some peaceful place where one must find comfort.'

'"Spirits of peace, where are ye" I could have said, when I saw her drive away at Recoara,
and carry all good angels with her except those that could not but hover round that grave.'

'How very sad it must have been! Did--'

'Don't speak of it; don't ask me of it' said Philip, hastily. 'There is nothing in my mind
but a tumult of horror and darkness that it is madness to remember. Tell me of yourself--tell
me that you have not been hurt by all that I have brought on you.'

'Oh, no!' said Laura 'besides, that is all at an end.'

'All an end! Laura, I fear in joining your fate to mine, you will find care and grief by no
means at an end. You must be content to marry a saddened, remorseful man, broken down in health
and spirits, his whole life embittered by that fatal remembrance, forced to endure an inheritance
that seems to have come like the prosperity of the wicked. Yet you are ready to take all this?
Then, Laura, that precious, most precious love, that has endured through all, will be the one
drop of comfort through the rest of my life.

