THE LIFE OF SIR RICHARD BURTON

By Thomas Wright

Author of "The Life of Edward Fitzgerald," etc.

2 Volumes in 1

     This Work is
     Dedicated to
     Sir Richard Burton's Kinsman
     And Friend,
     Major St. George Richard Burton,
     The Black Watch.

Preface.

Fifteen years have elapsed since the death of Sir Richard Burton and twelve since the appearance
of the biography of Lady Burton. A deeply pathetic interest attaches itself to that book. Lady
Burton was stricken down with an incurable disease. Death with its icy breath hung over her
as her pen flew along the paper, and the questions constantly on her lips were "Shall I live
to complete my task? Shall I live to tell the world how great and noble a man my husband was,
and to refute the calumnies that his enemies have so industriously circulated?" She did complete
it in a sense, for the work duly appeared; but no one recognised more clearly than herself
its numerous shortcomings. Indeed, it is little better than a huge scrap-book filled with newspaper
cuttings and citations from Sir Richard's and other books, hurriedly selected and even more
hurriedly pieced together. It gives the impressions of Lady Burton alone, for those of Sir
Richard's friends are ignored--so we see Burton from only one point of view. Amazing to say,
it does not contain a single original anecdote [1]--though perhaps, more amusing anecdotes
could be told of Burton than of any other modern Englishman. It will be my duty to rectify
Lady Burton's mistakes and mis-statements and to fill up the vast hiatuses that she has left.
Although it will be necessary to subject her to criticism, I shall endeavour at the same time
to keep constantly in mind the queenliness and beauty of her character, her almost unexampled
devotion to her husband, and her anxiety that everyone should think well of him. Her faults
were all of the head. Of the heart she had absolutely none.

As the Richard Burton whom I have to pourtray differs considerably from Lady Burton's "Earthly
God," [2] I have been very careful to give chapter and verse for all my statements. The work
has been written on the same lines as my Life of Edward FitzGerald; that is to say, without
any aim except to arrive at the precise truth. But although I have regarded it as no concern
of mine whether any particular fact tells for or against Sir Richard Burton, I do think that
when the reader rises from the last page he will feel that he has been in the company not only
of one of the greatest, noblest and most fearless of Englishmen, but also of one who, without
making much profession of doing so, really loved his fellow-men, and who, despite his inability
to put himself in line with religionists, fought steadily on the side of righteousness. We
are aware that there are in his books a few observations which call for vehement and unqualified
denunciation; but against them must be placed the fundamental goodness of the man, to which
all who knew him intimately have testified. In not a few respects Sir Richard Burton's character
resembled Edward FitzGerald's. Burton, indeed, hailed the adapter of Omar Khayyam as a "fellow
Sufi."

Lady Burton, too, comes extremely well out of the fire of criticism. The reader may object
to her religious views, he may smile at her weaknesses, he may lament her indiscretions, but
he will recognise that at bottom she was a God-fearing, noble-minded woman; and he will, we
think, find himself really in love with her almost before knowing it.

