DANGER!

A TRUE HISTORY OF A GREAT CITY'S

WILES AND TEMPTATIONS

THE VEIL LIFTED, AND LIGHT THROWN ON

CRIME AND ITS CAUSES,

AND

CRIMINALS AND THEIR HAUNTS.

FACTS AND DISCLOSURES

BY

HOWE & HUMMEL.

BUFFALO: THE COURIER COMPANY, PRINTERS. 1886

(Scanned by someone at Lehigh University, OCRed/proofread/formatted by DIzzIE, Carriage return
mule: Gaz, Direct all correspondence to DIzzIE, xcon0 @t yahoo d0.t c.0m

Copy-text page scans available at: www.dizzy.ws/dangerscans.zip and www.rorta.net/textfiles/dangerscans.zip)

PREFACE.

It may not be amiss to remark, in explanation of the startling and sensational title chosen
for this production, that logic has not yet succeeded in framing a title-page which shall clearly
indicate the nature of a book. The greatest adepts have frequently taken refuge in some fortuitous
word, which has served their purpose better than the best results of their analysis. So it
was in the present case. "DANGER!" is a thrilling and warning word, suggestive of the locomotive
headlight, and especially applicable to the subject matter of the following pages, in which
the crimes of a great city are dissected and exposed from the arcanum or confessional of what
we may be pardoned for designating the best-known criminal law offices in America.

So much for the title. A few words as to the motif of the publication. Despite the efficiency
of our police and the activity of our many admirable reforming and reclaiming systems, crime
still abounds, while the great tide of social impurity continues to roll on with unabated velocity.
Optimists and philanthropic dreamers in every age have pictured in glowing colors the gradual
but sure approach of the millennium, yet we are, apparently, still as far from that elysium
of purity and unselfishness as ever. Whenever the wolf and the lamb lie down together, the
innocent bleater is invariably inside the other's ravenous maw. There may be--and we have reason
to know that there is--a marked diminution in certain forms of crime, but there are others
in which surprising fertility of resource and ingenuity of method but too plainly evince that
the latest developments of science and skill are being successfully pressed into the service
of the modern criminal. Increase of education and scientific skill not only confers superior
facilities for the successful perpetration of crime, but also for its concealment. The revelations
of the newspapers, from week to week, but too plainly indicate an undercurrent of vice and
iniquity, whose depth and foulness defy all computation.

We are not in accord with those pessimists who speak of New York as a boiling caldron of crime,
without any redeeming features or hopeful elements. But our practice in the courts and our
association with criminals of every kind, and the knowledge consequently gained of their history
and antecedents, have demonstrated that, in a great city like New York, the germs of evil in
human life are developed into the rankest maturity. As the eloquent Dr. Guthrie, in his great
work, "The City, its Sins and its Sorrows," remarks: "Great cities many have found to be great
curses. It had been well for many an honest lad and unsuspecting country girl that hopes of
higher wages and opportunities of fortune, that the gay attire and gilded story of some acquaintance,
had never turned their steps cityward, nor turned them from the simplicity and safety of their
country home. Many a foot that once lightly pressed the heather or brushed the dewy grass has
wearily trodden in darkness, guilt and remorse, on these city pavements. Happy had it been
for many had they never exchanged the starry skies for the lamps of the town, nor had left
their quiet villages for the throng and roar of the big city's streets. Weil for them had they
heard no roar but the river's, whose winter flood it had been safer to breast; no roar but
ocean's, whose stormiest waves it had been safer to ride, than encounter the flood of city
temptations, which has wrecked their virtue and swept them into ruin."

By hoisting the DANGER signal at the mast-head, as it were, we have attempted to warn young
men and young women--the future fathers and mothers of America--against the snares and pitfalls
of the crime and the vice that await the unwary in New York. Our own long and extensive practice
at the bar has furnished most of the facts; some, again, are on file in our criminal courts
of record; and some, as has already been hinted, have been derived from the confidential revelations
of our private office. With the desire that this book shall prove a useful warning and potent
monitor to those for whose benefit and instruction it has been designed, and in the earnest
hope that, by its influence, some few may be saved from prison, penitentiary, lunatic asylum,
or suicides' purgatory, it is now submitted to the intelligent readers of America,

By the public's obedient servants, HOWE & HUMMEL.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. Ancient and Modern Prisons--Some of the City's Ancient Prisons--How Malefactors
were Formerly Housed--Ancient Bridewells and Modern Jails,

CHAPTER II. Criminals and their Haunts--The Past and Present Gangs of the City--How and Where
they Herd--Prominent Characters that have passed into History,

CHAPTER III. Street Arabs of Both Sexes--The Pretty Flower and News Girls--The Young Wharf
Rats and their eventful Lives--How they all Live, where they Come From, and where they finally
Finish their Career,

CHAPTER IV. Store Girls--Their Fascinations, Foibles and Temptations,

CHAPTER V. The Pretty Waiter Girl--Concert Saloons and how they are Managed--How the Pretty
Waitresses Live and upon Whom, and how the Unwary are Fleeced and Beguiled--A Midnight Visit
to one of the Dives,

CHAPTER VI. Shoplifters--Who they are and how they are made--Their Methods of Operating and
upon whom--The Fashionable Kleptomaniac and her Opposite--The Modern Devices of Female Thieves,

CHAPTER VII. Kleptomania--Extraordinary Revelations--A Wealthy Kleptomaniac in the Toils of
a Black-mailing Detective,

CHAPTER VIII. Panel Houses and Panel Thieves--The Inmates--The Victims--The Gains--Complete
Exposure of the Manner of Operation, and how Unsuspecting Persons are Robbed,

CHAPTER IX. A Theatrical Romance--Kate Fisher, the Famous Mazeppa, involved--Manager Hemmings
charged by Fast paced Mrs. Bethune with Larceny,

CHAPTER X. A Mariner's Wooing--Captain Hazard's Gushing Letters--Breakers on a Matrimonial
Lee Shore--He is Grounded on Divorce Shoals,

CHAPTER XI. The Baron and "Baroness"--The Romance of Baron Henry Arnous de Reviere, and "The
Buckeye Baroness," Helene Stille,

CHAPTER XII. The Demi-monde,

CHAPTER XIII. Passion's Slaves and Victims--A Matter of Untold History--The Terrible Machinery
of the Law as a Means of Persecution--Edwin James's Rascality,

CHAPTER XIV. Procuresses and their Victims--Clandestine Meetings at Seemingly Respectable Resorts--The
"Introduction House,"

CHAPTER XV. Quacks and Quackery--Specimen Advertisements--The Bait Held Out, and the Fish who
are Expected to Bite,

CHAPTER XVI. Abortion and the Abortionists--The Career of Madame Restell--Rosenzweig's Good Luck,

CHAPTER XVII. Divorce--The Chicanery of Divorce Specialists--How Divorce Laws Vary in Certain
Slates--Sweeping Amendments Necessary--Illustrative Cases,

CHAPTER XVIII. Black-mail--Who Practice it, How it is Perpetrated, and Upon Whom--The Birds
who are Caught, and the Fowlers who Ensnare them--With other Interesting Matters on the same
Subject,

CHAPTER XIX. About Detectives--The "Javerts," "Old Sleuths" and "Buckets" of Fiction as Contrasted
with the Genuine Article--Popular Notions of Detective Work Altogether Erroneous--An Ex-detective's
Views--The Divorce Detective,

CHAPTER XX. Gambling and Gamblers--The Delusions that Control the Devotees of Policy--What
the Mathematical Chances are Against the Players--Tricks in French Pools--"Bucking the Tiger"--"Ropers-in"--How
Strangers are Victimized,

CHAPTER XXI. Gambling made Easy--The Last Ingenious Scheme to Fool the Police--Flat-houses
Turned into Gambling Houses--"Stud-horse Poker" and "Hide the Heart,"

CHAPTER XXII. Slumming--Depravity of Life in Billy McGlory's--A Three-hours' Visit to the Place--Degraded
Men and Lost Women who are Nightly in this Criminal Whirlpool,

CHAPTER XXIII.
Our Waste Basket--Contemporaneous Records and Memoranda of Interesting
Cases,
        Miss Ruff's Tribulations,
        Astounding Degradation,
        Fall of a Youthful, Beautiful and Accomplished Wife,
        A French Beauty's Troubles,
        Life on the Boston Boats,
        An Eighty-year-old "Fence,"
        Shoppers' Perils,

AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL

It is to be presumed that the readers of this book will expect a few words on a subject "on
which," as Lord Byron somewhere remarks, "all men are supposed to be fluent and none agreeable--self."
However much the inclination and, I might add, temptation may run in the direction of fluency
and diffuseness in this case, my utterance shall be as brief as possible. I, William F. Howe,
founder of the law firm of Howe & Hummel, was born in Shawmut street, in Boston, Mass., on
the seventh day of July, 1828. My father was the Rev. Samuel Howe, M. A., a rather well-known
and popular Episcopal clergyman at the Hub in those days. Our family removed to England when
I was yet very young, and consequently my earliest recollections are of London. I remember
going to school, where I speedily developed a genius for mischief and for getting into scrapes.
I received a liberal allowance of the floggings then fashionable, and I can recall the hwhish
of the implement of torture to this day. We are all young but once, and when memory calls up
the lively pitched battles, and the pummelings I got and gave at school, I am young again--only
my waist is a good deal more expansive, my step is not so elastic or my sight so clear. I could
recall the names of some of those boys with whom I fought in those happy school days, and tell
how one now adorns the British bench, how another holds a cabinet portfolio, how another fell
bravely fighting in Africa, and how several, striving neither for name or fame,

        "Along the cool, sequestered vale of life
        Pursue the noiseless tenor of their way";

but it would be useless, as would also my experiences at church, listening to my good father's
sermons, and falling constantly asleep.

My youthful reminiscences of events which happened, and of which I heard or read in my youth,
are mostly chaotic and incongruous; but it is otherwise with the murders. I remember with what
thrilling interest I read the story of Greenacre, who cut up the body of his victim, carrying
the head wrapped up in a handkerchief, on his knees in the omnibus, and who was supposed to
have nearly fainted with fright when, on asking the conductor the fare, received the answer,
"Sixpence a head!" Then there was the horrible Daniel Good, the coachman at Roehampton, and
the monster Courvoisier, the Swiss valet, who murdered his master, Lord William Russell. These
atrocities and the trials at Old Bailey, no doubt, gave my mind the bent for the criminal law,
not that I was in any sense conscious of the possession of superior powers. It was merely the
selective tendency of a fresh and buoyant mind, rather vigorous than contemplative, and in
which the desire for a special field of action is but the symptom of health.

At the age of twenty, I entered King's College, London, with the son of the great American
statesman and historian, Edward Everett, and succeeded in graduating with some distinction.
Soon after, I entered the office of Mr. George Waugh, a noted barrister. 1 had the good fortune
to meet the commendation of Mr. Waugh, and I was consequently placed at the head of his corps
of assistants, and frequently appeared in the English courts in place of my employer. My connection
with this office lasted about eight years, and then, in pursuance of an intention long prior
formed and never relinquished, I returned to the country of my birth. My earliest essays at
the American bar have been fairly and impartially told by another pen, and, as the autobiographical
form of narrative has its limitations as well as its advantages, the reader will pardon me
if in this place I drop the "ego" and quote:

"On arriving here, Mr. Howe entered the office of E. H. Seeley, Esq., one of our oldest legal
practitioners. Here he remained one year, studying American law and practice with persistent
assiduity, and frequently appearing in our courts, 'by grace,' until he was fully licensed.
And it may be here stated that out of a list of over one hundred candidates for admission to
the bar only eighteen passed, and in that number was included the young lawyer from London.

"His first case of importance in this city was one of extreme delicacy, being a test question
as to whether Col. Walter W. Price, a wealthy brewer, was entitled to the position of Colonel
of the First Cavalry Regiment, N. G. S. N. Y., he having received the second highest number
of votes. Mr. Howe took the ground that his client was entitled to the office, being a resident
of this city, while his competitor, Smith, the founder of the great umbrella house, who had
received the largest number of ballots, resided in Brooklyn. This question was argued before
the Brigade Court, and, its decision being adverse, Mr. Howe carried the case to the Court
of Appeals, where a favorable decision was rendered, and Mr. Price duly installed in the position.
This was the young lawyer's first technical victory of note, and it brought him almost at once
into considerable prominence.

"He soon after opened an office at the corner of Chambers and Centre streets, devoted his entire
time and energy to civil matters, was highly successful, and soon achieved a considerable share
of popularity. In 1859, finding himself crowded with business, he removed to his present large
suite of offices on the corner of Centre and Leonard streets, which had formerly been occupied
by the late Judge Russell, and from that time down to the present he has made criminal matters
a specialty.

"Mr. Howe's first appearance in the New York courts as a criminal lawyer was in 1859. A man,
by the name of Devine, had been tried and convicted in the Court of Special Sessions on a charge
of larceny. He took Devine's case to the General Term of the Supreme Court, contending that
the conviction was illegal, inasmuch as the statute provides that three justices should sit,
whereas at the trial of Devine but two had attended. Many members of the bar laughed at him,
declaring his position untenable. In this he was opposed by Assistant District Attorney, the
present Chief Justice, Sedgwick. The Court decided the point well taken and ordered the discharge
of the prisoner, Devine.

"In defending a German named Jacob Weiler, indicted for the murder of his wife, by shooting,
in 1862, Mr. Howe took the ground that the deceased shot herself, a discharged pistol being
found by her side. This case was very thoroughly canvassed by the entire press of the city,
and occasioned the greatest excitement among the German population. The trial lasted eight
days, and resulted in a disagreement of the jury. At this stage of the proceedings, owing to
a misunderstanding (which it would hardly be in good taste to explain at this late day), Mr.
Howe withdrew from the defense. Other counsel were substituted, when the case was re-tried,
and the prisoner was convicted and sentenced to state prison for life.

"Mr. Howe has tried more capital cases than any six lawyers in America combined. There has
not been a murder case of note for the past twenty-five years in which he has not appeared
as counsel. The records of the Courts of Oyer and Terminer and General Sessions show that he
has tried more than three hundred homicide cases since the year 1860. Mr. Howe, as a specialist
in diseases of the brain, is regarded by physicians as the peer of the most eminent alienists
in practice."

The circumstances under which Mr. A. H. Hummel became associated with me, first as an office
boy, in 1863, at a salary of two dollars per week, and subsequently, in May, 1869, as my partner,
have been told more than once in the public press. Mr. Hummel was born in Boston, July 27,
1849; came, with his parents, to this city at an early age; attended Public School No. 15,
on East Fifth street, and made my acquaintance on a January morning before he was fourteen
years old. I have at hand a newspaper clipping, taken from the Rochester, N. Y., Democrat and
Chronicle of March 25, 1877, in which is printed an elaborate notice of the law firm of Howe
& Hummel, in which the junior partner is thus characterized:

"Soon after Mr. Howe opened his office, a bright lad, conversant with foreign languages, applied
on a cold January morning, in the year 1863, for employment, and was accepted. His duties as
office boy were to answer questions, make fires, do errands, and do copying and translations.
Such was his winning address, his ready tact, his quick perceptions, his prudence and discretion,
that he not only performed his duties to perfection but, in his few spare moments, learned
law. While he grew but little in stature, he made great progress in his chosen profession.
As he had fluent command of the German language--a useful adjunct to the practice of a criminal
lawyer in New York--and gave promise of attaining a high rank as an advocate, Mr. Howe made
him his partner before he was admitted to the bar. To-day, in stature, he is probably the smallest
professional man in America; but size is not 'the standard of the man,' and if Abe's stature
were in proportion to his merit he would be a veritable giant indeed."

With this sentiment I most cordially coincide, and at the same time bring these somewhat rambling
and discursive reminiscences to an end.

WILLIAM F. HOWE.

DANGER!

From old Dutch and Knickerbocker records it appears that as far back as the year 1600 there
existed a place for the confinement of malefactors in the City of New York. At that early date
in its history the town must certainly have been restricted to a half dozen or so of narrow,
crooked streets, in the immediate vicinity of what is now known as the Bowling Green. The population
did not, probably, number more than a few thousands; but, nevertheless, we find from these
same records that, even in that small community, criminals were so numerous and crime so rife
that a jail or Bridewell had already been established for the safe-keeping and punishment of
evildoers, and a system of citizen-police inaugurated for the preservation of the local peace.

It was not, however, until some years later, 1642, that the "Staat Huys" was built, a municipal
building, with a portion of it erected especially for the housing of dangerous criminals. Thus
it would seem that for upwards of two centuries crime and criminals have had their haunts in
this city, and, it is safe to say, while the more ancient cities of Europe have, unquestionably,
originated more felons of every grade, there are few places that can rival New York in the
number of actual crimes committed during its comparatively brief existence on the earth's map.

During the earlier history of the embryo city, the nature of the offenses perpetrated on the
then small community, and the type of men who boldly executed the crimes, were undoubtedly
of the same pattern as those which obtain among us to-day, but with this difference, that with
the onward march of Improvement, hand-in-hand with the progress of Science and Civilization,
have also grimly stalked fashionably-clothed and modernly-equipped Crime and the scientifically-perfected
law-breaker, with his modern and improved methods. Man's villainies, like his other passions,
remain the same to-day as when the murderous club of Cain crushed the skull of his brother
Abel, and the maiden earth was crimsoned with the first blood that appealed for vengeance.
They differ only in the manner of commission, and the commission would appear to be assisted
by modern invention and appliances.

To expect large civilized communities dwelling together to be free from crime would be to imagine
an elysium on earth, for where poverty exists crime will assuredly be found, and poverty will
never be divorced from civilization. It would also appear that, in accordance with the growth
and expansion of the young city in other respects, vice and crime kept pace, while youthful
depravity early began to trouble the good people then as it worries the same class of persons
to-day, for in 1824 we find that a House of Refuge, for the reformation of juvenile delinquents,
was built, ostensibly superseding the old "Society for the Prevention of Pauperism." To follow
in detail the history of crime in this city, from so early a date, would be of very little
service here, but a simple chronicle, referring to the periods at which prisons were found
to be necessary, may be briefly touched upon as tending to show how crime increased and criminals
multiplied, as the city grew in wealth and population.

The new "Staat Huys," before alluded to, was erected on the corner of Pearl street and Coenties
Slip, a locality then considered the most central in the infant town, and as offering the best
facilities for securely keeping prisoners. It served its double purposes of jail and city hall
until 1698, when it was decided by the authorities to build another--a larger and more commodious
structure; while, in the meantime, the old military block-house in the immediate neighborhood
of the Governor's residence was conscripted and made use of, additionally to the "Staat Huys,"
for the accommodation of the constantly-increasing number of culprits.

The new building--City Hall--was erected on Broad street, on the ground now covered by the
sub-treasury building, and was finished in 1699, but was not used as a jail until five years
subsequent. In the winter of 1704 the sheriff was required to have the city jail prepared for
the reception of felons. Crime, however, would appear to have become a monster of terrible
mien in those days, far exceeding all the efforts of the authorities to restrict or even to
limit the number of malefactors, aside from the apparent impossibility of diminishing them,
for again, in 1758, another new jail was found absolutely necessary to the needs of the inhabitants,
and was erected on what was then known as "The Fields," now City Hall Park, and where, tradition
has it, the prisoners were most barbarously treated. This new place of confinement, together
with those previously in use, served their purpose very well until 1775, when the new Bridewell
was erected, when all were converted into military prisons during the occupancy of the city
by the British. The frightful cruelties that were then practiced upon the patriot soldiers,
unfortunate enough to be inmates of those prisons, are too familiar to every one to need mention
here.

Shortly after the Revolution, the Penitentiary was established at Bellevue. In 1816, a portion
of the almshouse was set apart for the punishment of felons, by the institution of the treadmill.
This was on Twenty-sixth street, near First avenue, the present site of Bellevue Hospital,
and its part occupancy as a prison somewhat relieved the overcrowded condition of the jail.
The city jail still continued in City Hall Park, and was used as a debtors' prison, remaining
so until 1832, when it was entirely converted into the Register's Office, the present Hall
of Records, and is such to this day. It stands opposite the Staats Zeitung building in old
Tryon Row.

The Penitentiary was soon found to be too small for the keeping of the greatly-increased number
of prisoners, and so, in 1836, the buildings on Blackwell's Island were constructed, and two
years later, again, the Tombs, the sombre, miasmatic, Egyptian edifice on Centre street, was
completed; which latter had been in course of construction for some years.

In addition to the prisons previously alluded to, there was begun, in 1796, a state prison,
which was erected in the Village of Greenwich, about West Tenth street, near the North River,
and which is still in existence to-day (1886), being occupied by, and known as, the Empire
Brewery. It was used as a state prison until the completion of the present extensive buildings
at Sing Sing, on the Hudson.

Such is, briefly, a history of the establishment of the prisons of this city, but of the unfortunate
class of criminals that have, from time to time, occupied them, much remains to be said, and
will be found in the succeeding pages.

New York, from being the largest city on the western hemisphere; in almost hourly communication
with every part of the known world; the vast wealth of its merchants; elegant storehouses crowded
with the choicest and most costly goods, manufactured fabrics, and every kind of valuable representing
money; with its great banks, whose vaults and safes contain more bullion than could be transported
by the largest ship afloat; its colossal establishments teeming with diamonds, jewelry and
precious stones gathered from all parts of the known and uncivilized portions of the globe;
with all this countless wealth, these boundless riches, in some cases insecurely guarded, in
all temptingly displayed, is it any wonder, then, that this city should always have proved
the paradise of thieves? The fact of its being the chief city of the New World, alone caused
it to be the principal magnet of attraction for all the expert criminals of the Old World,
in addition to those who were "to the manner born."

What trouble they proved to the police of some years ago, and the frequency with which crimes
of every kind were committed, is best evidenced by referring to the records of that time, when
jails and prisons were crowded and courts and judges were kept busy trying offenders against
the laws, while the entire police and detective force was unable and inadequate to successfully
reduce the occurrence of the one or diminish the number of the other. It was at that time appropriately
styled the "Thieves' Paradise," for even after some daring and expert felon had been captured
by the authorities and securely lodged in jail, the meshes of the law, as it then existed,
were so large, and the manner of administering justice (?) so loose, that the higher class
of criminal, possessed of political influence, or, better still, of money, invariably escaped
the punishment his crime deserved. The very police themselves were, in many cases, in league
with the thieves and shared in the "swag" of the successful burglar, expert counterfeiter,
adroit pickpocket, villainous sneak and panel thief, or daring and accomplished forger; hence
crime, from being in a measure "protected," increased, criminals multiplied and prisons were
made necessarily larger.

But this was years ago, and under a far different police system than that now in vogue, the
merits and efficacy of which it will be both a duty and a pleasure hereafter to fully mention.
The collusion between the police and the criminals, at the times of which we speak, became
a very serious matter, in which the public early began to exhibit its temper. So late as the
year 1850 it was an anxious question whether the authorities or the lawless classes should
secure the upper hand and possess the city, and this condition of affairs, this triangular
strife of supposed law and order on one side, protection to law-breakers on the other, and
the protests of an indignant, outraged and long-suffering people on the third, prevailed until
the year that Bill Poole was murdered by Lew Baker on Broadway, which notable event marked
an epoch in the city's history, and to some extent improved the then existing state of affairs,
as it occasioned the dispersal of a notorious gang of swell roughs, whose power was felt in
local politics, and directed the attention of every lover of peace and justice to the enactment
of better laws and a sterner method of executing them.

About the year 1855, two classes of "toughs," or, as they were dubbed in those days, "rowdies,"
appear to have had and maintained some control of the city, overawing the regularly constituted
authorities, intimidating the police by their numbers, and carrying things with a high hand
generally. One class consisted of the individuals comprehended in the title of "Bowery Boy"--a
term which included that certain, or rather uncertain, element of New Yorker residing in the
streets running into the Bowery and adjacent to it, below Canal street, and the other, a rival
gang, called "Dead Rabbits," which unsavory distinction was adopted by an equally questionable
portion of humanity dwelling in the Fourth and Sixth wards and streets in the vicinity of Catherine
and Roosevelt. There were among these two gangs of the city's representative "toughs," materials
of a far different kind from the actual felon, but who were none the less dangerous, and among
them may be classed many leaders of ward politics and volunteer fire companies, and from which
Lew Baker and his victim, Bill Poole, "The Paudeen," "Reddy, the Blacksmith," and numerous
others were afterwards developed; but they were oftener far more guilty than the real criminals,
for they aided and abetted, and in cases of arrest befriended them, causing their subsequent
escape from the penalties justly due for their crimes.

As a type of the veritable "Bowery Boy" may be taken the leader of that gang of notorious "toughs,"
one who, from his well-earned reputation as a bar-room and street rough-and-tumble fighter,
has become a historical personage, under the sobriquet of "Mose." His faithful lieutenant,
"Syksey," of "hold de butt" fame, will not soon be forgotten either, as both figured prominently
in the terrible pitched battles the two rival gangs frequently indulged in, to the terror and
consternation of all New York. Of the rival mob, known as "Dead Rabbits," Kit Burns, Tommy
Hedden and "Shang" Allen are names long to be remembered by the terror-stricken citizens who
lived in the days when the fights between these notorious aspirants for pugilistic and bloody
honors were often of the deadliest and most sanguinary character, lasting for days at a time;
when entire streets were blockaded and barricaded, and the mobs were armed with pistols and
rifles. Even cannons were sometimes used, and the police, even when aided by the military,
were powerless to suppress these battles until many were killed and wounded on both sides.
In these desperate conflicts it was no unusual sight to see women, side by side with men, fighting
as valiantly as their husbands, sons or fathers, and the records of the courts and prisons
of those days tell dreadful stories of murders, robberies and other crimes done under cover
of these periodical street fights.

At this time the locality known as the "Five Points" was probably the worst spot on the face
of the civilized globe. In and around it centered, perhaps, the most villainous and desperate
set of savage human beings ever known to the criminal annals of a great city. To pass through
it in daylight was attended by considerable danger, even when accompanied by several officers
of the law. Woe to the unfortunate individual who chanced to stray into this neighborhood after
dark. A knock on the head, a quick rifling of pockets, a stab if the victim breathed, a push
down some dark cellar, were frequently the skeleton outlines of many a dreadful tragedy, of
which the victim was never afterwards heard. The name "Five Points," was given to that particular
spot formed by the junction or crossing of Worth, Baxter and Park streets, but nearly embraced
all the neighborhood comprised in the locality bounded by Centre, Chatham, Pearl and Canal
streets in the Sixth ward, and was frequently afterwards mentioned as the "Bloody Sixth," from
the many daily conflicts eventuating there.

The "Five Points," from being the hiding-place and residence of the most bloodthirsty set of
criminals, vagabonds and cut-throats, has, through the influence of the Five Points Mission
House and the gradual encroachments of business houses, become quite respectable, and while
now sheltering a large number of the foreign element, has ceased, to a great extent, to longer
excite terror in the community. Still, it has not entirely lost its former well-merited title
of "Thieves' Nest." It is comparatively a safe thoroughfare in daylight, and after dark, if
one is on constant guard, he may safely pass unharmed.

In the Fourth ward, just beyond the locality written about, was another terrible rendezvous
for an equally desperate set of men. It was known as Slaughter-house Point, and a criminal
here was, for a time, safe from the police, as its many intricate streets and tumble-down houses
offered a safe hiding-place for every kind of outlaw, even up to very recent years. Here the
terrible garroter dwelt for a long time; aye, and throve, too, until our criminal judges began
sentencing every one of them convicted before them to the extreme penalty of twenty years in
Sing Sing, which largely suppressed that class of criminals in this city.

The methods of the garroter were quick, sure and silent. At Slaughter-house Point and its environs
many a returned East India sea captain, whose vessel was moored to one of the docks at the
foot of a contiguous street, has either strayed or been beguiled into this neighborhood, drugged
and robbed. Others, whose business or chance brought them within the reach of this set of desperadoes,
have fared similarly. Sad has been the fate of many an individual unfortunately falling into
the clutches of these murderous villains. A stealthy step, an arm thrown under the chin of
the unsuspecting victim, a bear-like clasp, and total unconsciousness. To rifle the pockets
of the unlucky man--sometimes stripping him and throwing him off the dock--and escape into
one of the many dark and dismal passages abounding in the neighborhood, was but a few minutes'
work, and nothing remained to tell how the drama, perhaps tragedy, was enacted.

Another class of dangerous criminals haunted the precincts of Water and Cherry streets, and
that immediate locality. They were all frequenters of the well-known establishments presided
over by such eminent lights of the profession as Kit Burns, Jerry McAuley, Johnny Allen, etc.,
but all three of whom afterwards forswore their evil ways and died in the odor of piety.

These various gangs inhabiting the portions of the city already indicated were eventually succeeded
by others in widely separated localities. The succeeding gangs were quite as numerous, but
not quite as ferocious or formidable, so far as numbers were concerned, but more dangerous
and daring individually; for while the former type lived in communities by themselves, and
dwelt in certain well-known streets and houses, using their bloodthirsty propensities occasionally
against themselves in their street fights, the latter at all times waged an indiscriminate
and perpetual war on the respectable element of society. To the latter and more modern gangs,
which were really worse, so far as the higher classes of crimes were concerned, belonged such
men as "Reddy, the Blacksmith," "Dutch Heinrich." Chauncey Johnson, "Johnny, the Mick," and
their favorite places were "Murderers' Row," and other notorious localities on Broadway, Houston,
Crosby and adjacent streets.

The war did much to bring these latter into prominence. They made money when money was in the
hands of every one, when bounty-jumpers were as thick as berries on the bushes, and the leading
streets of the city were a blaze of light at night, from the myriads of colored lamps displayed
by the pretty waiter-girl saloons and other notorious and questionable dives. When the war
ceased these and kindred gangs of "toughs" were again superseded by those at present to be
found in various parts of the metropolis, but which, thanks to an excellent system of police,
are all or nearly all under complete espionage of the local authorities.

It now becomes our duty, as faithful chroniclers, to point out the localities at present occupied
by that class of the population, and tell the secret of their lives and how they exist. The
region which most engrosses the attention of the police is that conspicuously known as "Mackerelville,"
which for some years past has borne rather an unsavory reputation. While there are many deserving
and worthy persons dwelling in the locality, quite a different type of humanity also makes
its home there. The neighborhood in question is comprised in Eleventh, Twelfth and Thirteenth
streets, and First avenue, and Avenues A, B and C. It harbors a wild gang of lawbreakers, ready
and willing to commit any kind of lawless act, in which the chances of escape are many and
detection slight. Notwithstanding the decimation of its ranks by frequent and well-deserved
trips to the penitentiary of its members, for every crime from murder down, it appears to survive,
to the terror of the respectable poor living in the neighborhood and the constant dread of
the police officer. It is a locality and a gang much dreaded at night, but not nearly so much
now as formerly, for when a member commits a crime of any importance now he is invariably ferreted
out, arrested and punished.

