The Times first appeared under that title on the 1st January, 1788, but bore the Number 941,
it being a continuation, under a new name, of the Universal Register, of which 940 numbers
had been published.--The Morning Chronicle must have commenced in 1769, as a correspondent,
F.B., writes to tell us that he possesses No. 242. dated Monday, 12th March, 1770. See further
Nichol's Literary Anecdotes, i. 303; and for Morning Advertiser, established in 1794, the same
volume, p.290. Another correspondent writes:--During 1849 the Morning Chronicle has completed
its 81st year; next in seniority stands the Morning Post, at 77; and the Morning Herald, at
65. The Times in the numbering of its days, is in its 64th year, but has not really reached
its grand climacteric, for its three years of infancy passed under the name of The Universal
Register, it having only received its present appellation in the opening of 1788. The Morning
Advertiser is wearing away its 54th year.

The Public Ledger, commenced in 1759, or 1760, is however, the oldest Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dorne the Bookseller--Henno Rusticus, etc.

Sir,--In answer to W. in page 12. of No. 1, I beg to suggest that Dormer, written Dõmr in the
MS.--a common abbreviation--may be the name of the Oxford bookseller, and Henno Rusticus may
be Homo rusticus, "the country gentleman." The hand-writing of this MS. is so small and illegible
in some places, that it requires an Oedipus to decipher it; and the public will have much reason
to thank those lynx-eyed antiquaries who have taken great pains to render it intelligible.
"The Sige of the End," is of course properly explained to be "the Signe of the End."

J.I.

       *       *       *       *       *

SANUTO'S DOGES OF VENICE.

Sir,--The high value of your Journal as a repertory of interesting literary information, which
without it might be lost to the world, is becoming daily more apparent from the number and
character of your correspondents. You have my best wishes for its success.

The communication of Sir FREDERICK MADDEN respecting the singular and obvious error in Marin
Sanuto's Lives of the Doges of Venice, has renewed in me a desire for information which I have
hitherto been unable to obtain; and I will, therefore, with your permission, put it here as
a Query.

The able writer has noticed that the very mutilated and incorrect manner in which Muratori
has printed all that he has given of Sanuto, and especially Le Vite de' Dogi, of which the
original copy still remains inedited in the Estensian Library at Modena. There can be no doubt
that some ignorant or indolent transcriber made the mistake of iudeo for richo, so satisfactorily
and happily elucidated by SIR FREDERICK MADDEN. How much it is to be regretted that the Diary
of Sanuto, so remarkable for it simplicity and ingenuous truthful air, should still remain
inedited. It relates to an epoch among the most interesting of Modern History, and the extracts
given in the Ragguagli only make us wish for more.

From this Diary it appears that the Valori were among the most distinguished citizens of a
state which could boast that its merchants were princes. The palace they inhabited is no known
by the name of the Altoviti, its more recent owners, and many of the tombs of the Valori are
to be found in the church of St. Proculus. Macchiavelli mentions Bartolomeo Valori among the
Cittadini d' autorita, and, according to Nardi, he was Gonfaloniere in the first two months
of the years 1402, 1408, and 1420. He was also one of the Platonic Academy that Ficino assembled
around him. In this Diary of Sanuto will be found many minute and interesting details respecting
Savonarola, and the relation of the tragical death of Francisco Valor, who had also been several
times Gontaloniere, and whom Savonarola, in his confession, said it was his intention to have
made perpetual Dictator.

I would have given a specimen of this very interesting diary, but that I scrupled to occupy
space which your correspondents enable you to fill so effectively, for I fully subscribe to
the dictum of the Ragguagliatore, "Il Sanuto si presenta come la Scott degli Storiei, compincendosi
come Sir Walter delle giostre, delle feste, e delle narrazioni piacevole e di dolce pietà.

S.W.S.

Mickleham, Nov. 23, 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

MSS. OF ROGER TWYSDEN.

Sir,--An answer to the following "Query" would be most interesting to myself, and, perhaps,
not altogether without its value to the literary world.

Among Sir Roger Twysden's MSS. I have a letter from him to his son at Oxford, requesting his
intercession with the University for the loan of the MS. of Walter Mapes "de nugis curialium,"
in order that he might prepare it for publication. He instances the liberality of the Archbishop
of Canterbury in having lent him from Lambeth the Epistles of Amselm and Becket; and adds,
that, by being permitted to retain these MSS. in his hands for some years, he had now prepared
them for the press.

I cannot learn that they were ever printed, and among the voluminous MS. remains of Sir Roger
now in my hands, I cannot find the smallest trace of them. Can any one your readers inform
me what became of this collection, which, by Sir Roger's statement, was finished and completely
ready for the press?

To this "Query" I may as well add a "Note," which may be interesting to some of your readers.

In Sir Roger's MS. Journal of his persecutions by the Parliament, he states:

    "It is sayd King Charles subscribed the byll for taking away the
    votes of Bishops, in y't very house where Christian religion was
    first preached,--viz. St. Augustines by Canterbury."

LAMBERT B. LARKING.

Ryarsh Vicarage, Nov. 17.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Honnore Pelle.

Who was "Honnore Pell, 1684"? My reason for asking this is, I have a marble bust of Charles
II. of colossal size, most splendidly sculptured, with the long curling hair and full court
dress of the period, and the execution and workmanship of which would do honour to any sculptor
of the past or present time. On the stump of the arm are the name and date which I have given
above, and I have in vain looked into biographical works.

W.L.

Bust of Sir Walter Raleigh.

Is there an authentic bust of Sir Walter Raleigh in existence? and if so, where is it to be found?

J.B.

Motto of University of Cambridge.

From what author, "chapter and verse," comes the motto of the University of Cambridge, HINC
LUCEM ET POCULA SAGRA? It is used as a quotation in Leighton on St. Peter's Epistle, but in
the last edition the learned editor does not give a reference.

J.J.S.

Family of Giles of Worcestershire.

Can you tell me any thing of a family named "Giles," whose crest was a horse's head? They were
connected with Worcestershire.

*

Passage from an Old Play.

Can any of your many readers oblige me by informing me where the following very striking passage
can be found? I have seen the lines quoted as from an "Old Play;" but a tolerable extensive
knowledge of old plays, and a diligent search, have not hitherto enabled me to find them:--

  "Call you the city gay, its revels joyous?
  They may be so to you, for you are young,

  Belike and happy. She was young in years,
  But often in mid-spring will blighting winds
  Do autumn's work; and there is grief at heart
  Can do the work of years, can pale the cheek,
  And cloud the brow, and sober down the spirit.
  This gewgaw scene hath fewer charms for her
  Than for the crone, that numbering sixty winters,
  Pronounceth it all folly.--Marvel not
  'Tis left thus willingly."

C.A.H.

Athenæum Club, Nov. 17, 1849.

Dalton's Doubting's Downfall.

About thirty years ago the following appeared in Lackington and Co.'s book catalogue: "Dalton
(Edward) Doubting's Downfall, 1s. 6d." Application was made, when other books were ordered,
three several times; in each case the answer was "sold." Since that date inquiries have been
instituted from time to time, in the usual quarters, but always unsuccessfully. No clue can
be given as to the size or date, but from the quaintness of the title it is presumed to be
about the period of the Commonwealth.

Should any of your readers procure this work, the liberal price of 20s. if a book, or 10s.
if a pamphlet, will be paid for it through your medium, by

G.

Authors of Old Plays.

Query the authors of the following plays?--

1. The Tragedy of Nero newly written. London, printed by Aug. Mathewes for Thomas Jones, and
are to be sold at his shoppe in Saint Dunstane's Churchyard in Fleete Street. 1633.

2. Sicily and Naples, or the Fatall Vnion, a Tragædy. By S H. A B è C. Ex. Oxford: printed
by William Turner, 1640.

3. Emilia. London: printed for the author, 1672.

4. Sir Gyles Goose-Cappe Knight, a comedy lately acted with great applause at the private House
in Salisbury Court. London: printed for Hugh Perry, and are to be sold by Roger Ball, at the
Golden Anchor in the Strand, neere Temple Barre, 1636.

I have given the title-pages in full, omitting a Latin motto which adorns the title-page of
the M.A. of Exeter College.

Q.D.

Periwinkle--a Mocking Emblem.

Can any of your readers, learned in the language of flowers, inform me why, when Sir W. Fraser
(the last of Wallace's adherents) was led in triumph through the streets of London, with his
legs tied under his horse's belly--"a garland of Periwinkle was in mockery placed upon his
head?" See Tytler's History of Scotland, cap. 3.

MELANION.

Wives of Ecclesiastics.

Sir,--In looking over some ancient charters a few days ago, I met with one dated 22 Edw. III,
by which "Willielmus de Bolton clericus et Goditha uxor ejus," release a claim to certain lands.
If William de Bolton was an ecclesiastic, as I suppose, how is it that his wife is openly mentioned?

I shall be must obliged to any of your readers for an explanation.

A SUBSCRIBER.

Whelps.

Sir,--In Howell's Letters, Sect. 5. p. 9. the following words occur:--

    "At the return of this fleet two of the Whelps were cast away, and
    three ships more."

I should feel obliged to any of your correspondents who may be able to favour me with an explanation
of the word Whelps in this passage.

J.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, CATALOGUES, SALES, ETC.

J.J.S. informs us, with reference to a Note in No. 2. (p. 21.), "that an account of Anglesey
Abbey, in Cambridgeshire, is ready, and will be published ere long."

Our attention has been directed to the Prospectus of a series of "Cottage Prints from Sacred
Subjects, intended chiefly for distribution among the poor," which will be so produced as to
form a set of illustrations to the Bible; "although it is chiefly contemplated that the Prints,
protected by a small frame, should find their way into the homes of the poor, and decorate
their walls." The Editors, the Rev. H. J. Rose and Rev. J.W. Burgon, well observe: "We shall
in vain preach reverence to the ear on Sundays, if the eyes may be familiarised with what is
irreverent for the six days following. On the other hand, we shall surely be supplying ourselves
with a powerful aid, if we may direct the eye to forms of purity and beauty; and accustom our
village children, (who are now our hope,) from infancy, to look daily on what is holy, and
pure, and good."--Subscribers of one guinea in advance are promised, in the course of the year,
at least fifty such engravings as the four which accompany the Prospectus.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson commenced on Thursday a nine days' Sale of the "Curious, rare,
and valuable Library of a well-known Collector, deceased;" also another Collection, including--

Theology; Spanish, English, and other Chronicles: Specimens of the Early Typography of English
and Foreign Printers; a very complete Series of the Productions of the Family of Aldus; rare
editions of the Classics; numerous interesting and important Spanish Books; a very extensive
Collection of Works relating to the Discovery, History, Natural History, Language, Literature,
and Government of America and it Dependencies, Mexico, the East and West Indies, &c. Voyages,
Travels, and Itineraries: Fine Books of Prints; Botanical Works; Natural History and Philosophy;
Works containing Specimens of Early Engraving, Wood-cuts, and Emblems; a most interesting Collection
of English Poetry, Plays, and Works illustrative of the History and Progress of the English
Language and Literature, including a perfectly unique Collection of the Works of Daniel De
Foe; several hundred rare Tracts, particularly an extensive Series relating to Charles I. and
his Contemporaries, others of a Local and Personal Character, Biographies, rare Histories of
remarkable Characters, Facetiae, and an unusually large assemblage of curious and rare Articles
in almost every Class of Literature; a few MSS. &c.

Among the Lots deserving attention in the course of the coming week, are Nos. 1323 to 1375,
a large collection of publications relative to America; Nos. 1612 to 1620, relating to Canada.

    1574 Barros (Joan, de) Decades da Asia. Decada 1, 2. Lisboa,
    1552-53; Decada 3, ib. 1563; Decada 4, Madrid, 1615; Couto,
    Decada 4, 5, 6, Lisboa, 1602-16; Decada 8, 9, 10. ib.
    1736--together 8 vols. morocco

    Nearly all the copies of the 6th Decade were destroyed by fire, and
    the few that are to be met with are generally, if not always,
    deficient in some leaves. The title-page to this copy (as in Mr.
    Grenville's) is supplied by the title to the 4th Decade, and a few
    leaves are wanting. For the rarity of this work, see Bibliotheca
    Grenvilliana, vol. i. p. 60.

And, lastly, Lot 1701; which contains a matchless series, in 154 vols., of the Works of Daniel
De Foe, whom Coleridge was inclined to rank higher than Addison for his humour and as a writer
of racy vigorous English.

The Lot is thus described:--

    "THIS MATCHLESS SERIES of the Works of this distinguished Author was
    formed with unwearied diligence by his Biographer, the late Mr.
    Walter Wilson, during the greater portion of his life.

    "The numbers to 208 refer to the Catalogue of the Works as published
    in his Life of Defoe, 3 vols. 1830; those following have been
    discovered by Mr. Wilson since the period of the publication. This
    Collection is rendered still further to complete by the addition of
    upwards of forty pieces by a recent possessor. The extreme
    difficulty of forming such a collection as the present is very
    apparent when we compare its voluminous contents with those very few
    collections which, during the last fifty years, have on the
    dispersion of celebrated libraries occurred for sale."

We have this week received a most important and valuable

    "Catalogue of Bibles and Biblical Literature, containing the best
    works, ancient and modern, on the Criticism, Interpretation, and
    Illustration of Holy Scripture, and including such of the Fathers
    and Ecclesiastical Writers as have treated on these subjects,
    classified with Analytical Table of Contents and Alphabetical
    Indexes of Subjects and Authors, &c. on Sale, by C.J. Stewart, 11.
    King William St., West Strand."

Mr. Stewart explains that in addition to what are "strictly regarded as Biblical, there will
be found in it the works of those Fathers, Mediæval and more recent Writers, who treat upon
subjects connected with Scripture, each accompanied with an enumeration of such portions of
his works; and under heads (more especially extensive under commentators) references are given
to these writers, so as to afford a condensed view of authorities or sources of information."
Mr. Stewart states also that he has other Catalogues in preparation,--we presume in continuation
of the present one, and exhibiting the same system of arrangement,--and if so, we feel that
the series will be of the greatest value to all theological students.

Collectors of Autographs and Engraved Portraits will thank us for directing their attention to a

    "Catalogue of Books, Prints, Manuscripts, and Autograph Letters;
    being a part of the Stock of Horatio Rodd, brother and successor to
    the late Thomas Rodd, No. 23. Little Newport Street,"

in which they will find many interesting Autographs and curious Portraits.

We have also received

"A List of Secondhand Books on Sale by George Honnor, 304. Strand;" and

"A Catalogue of Books. Ancient and Modern, on Sale, by W. Pedder, 12. Holywell St. Part VI. 1849."

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

THE WOMEN'S PETITION AGAINST COFFEE. 8vo. 1674. JOB'S LAMENTATION FOR HIS CHILDREN. 1750. HARROD'S
SEVENOAKE, A POEM. 4to. 1753. OGILBY'S BRITANNIA. Folio, 1675. Vol. II. SWIFT'S WORKS. ADAMS'
MORAL TALES, London. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF DR. JOHNSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED.--J.W.M.----Anglo-Cambrian---- J.A.G.----J.F.M.----J. Britton.----T.W.----J.S.----F.E.M.----A.G.----W.
Williams----W. Figg.----L. ** B.----E.V.---- L.B.L.----H.G. (Milford), whose suggestion will
not be lost sight of.----G.M.----S.A.A.----Trin. Coll. Dubl.----J.W. Burrows.----S.A.----A.F.----
W. Robson.----J.S.B.----Wicamicus----C.B.---- D.----H. Andrews.----R. Snow.----C.W.G. ----Naso.----Scotus.----Rev.
F.M.

Answers to Queries respecting Rev. T. Reman, Katherine Pegg, &c. in our next.

Will MUSARUM STUDIOSUS enable us to communicate with him directly?

PHILO is thanked for his proposed endeavours to enlarge our circulation. We trust all our friends
and correspondents will follow PHILO's example by bringing NOTES AND QUERIES under the notice
of such of their friends as take an interest in literary pursuits. For it is obvious that they
will extend the usefulness of our Paper, in proportion as they increase its circulation.

We have received many complaints of a difficulty in procuring our paper.

A neat Case for holding a Year's Numbers (52) of NOTES AND QUERIES is preparing, in consequence
of the suggestion of several Subscribers, and will very soon be ready.

       *       *       *       *       *

Recently published in 8 vols. 8 vo., price 4l. 16s. cloth

A NEW EDITION of SHAKSPEARE'S WORKS, (comprising the Plays and Poems,) the Text formed from
an entirely new Collation of the Old Editions; with the Various Readings, Notes, a Life of
the Poet, and a History of the Early English Stage. By J. PAYNE COLLIER, Esq., F.S.A. Author
of "The History of English Dramatic Poetry and the Stage," &c. &c. The Type of this edition
has been expressly cast for it, and is the largest used for Shakespeare's Works for these Twenty
Years.

    "The most perfect text with the fewest possible notes. Whoever wants
    to know what Shakespeare wrote must refer to Collier's
    edition."--Monthly Magazine.

    "Mr. Collier has brought to his task the aid of great research,
    discrimination, and intimate knowledge of the true mode of treating
    his subject."--Age.

WHITTAKER and CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILLER'S CATALOGUE of BOOKS; ready this day, will be found to contain an

extremely valuable, interesting, and highly curious collection, comprising works on Freemasonry,
History, Biography, Poetry, and the Drama, Books of Wit and Humour, with choice Pictorial Publications
and Modern Table Books, many in first-rate bindings suitable for the drawing-room; also a few
Bibles and a small portion of Divinity and Controversial Works, with Collections of Tracts,
Trials, and Illustrated Scraps for fireside amusement, and a few pieces of Irish History, Antiquities,
and Biography; with varieties in Greek, Latin, French, Italian, German, and Spanish. To be
had GRATIS, and can be sent POSTAGE FREE to any book-buyer on receipt of an address.

JOHN MILLER, 43. Chandos-street, King William-street, Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF WORKS

LORD CAMPBELL'S LIVES OF THE CHIEF JUSTICES OF ENGLAND. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s. (On Dec. 7th)

LORD CAMPBELL'S LIVES OF THE LORD CHANCELLORS OF ENGLAND. 3rd Edition. 7 vols. 8vo. 5l. 2s.

HALLAM'S EUROPE DURING THE MIDDLE AGES. Ninth Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s. NOTES SUPPLEMENTAL
8vo. 10s. 6d. Fifth Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s.

TICKNER'S HISTORY OF SPANISH LITERATURE. With Criticisms and Biographical Notices. 3 vols.
8vo. (Next Week.)

MARRYAT'S HISTORY of POTTERY and PORCELAIN, from the Earliest Period in various Countries.
With coloured Plates and 130 Woodcuts, 8vo. (Nearly ready.)

THE ROMANESQUE AND POINTED STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE IN FRANCE; with Notices of some of the principal
Buildings on which it is founded. 8vo. (In Dec.)

DYER'S LIFE OF JOHN CALVIN; from authentic Sources, and particularly his Correspondence. With
a Portrait. 8vo. (On Dec. 7)

IRVING'S LIFE OF COLUMBUS, with HIS VOYAGES and those of HIS COMPANIONS. A new edition, thoroughly
revised by the Author. With Maps. 3 vols. 8vo. (Next Week.)

CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON; Past and Present. A new and revised edition. 1 vol. post
8vo. (In Jan.)

    "We can conceive no companion more welcome to an enlightened
    foreigner visiting the metropolis than Mr. Cunningham with his
    laborious research, his scrupulous exactness, his alphabetical
    arrangement, and his authorities from every imaginable source. As a
    piece of severe compact and finished structure, the 'Handbook' is
    not to be surpassed."--The Times.

    "In the production of the 'Handbook for London' must be recognised
    the fulfilment of a work useful in purpose, and national in
    character."--Morning Chronicle.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILMAN'S LIFE AND WORKS OF HORACE

Now ready, 1 vol. (700 pp.) crown 8vo. 42s.

HORACE: A NEW EDITION OF THE TEXT, Beautifully printed, and illustrated
by upwards of 300 vignettes of Coins, Gems, Bas-reliefs, Statues, Views,
&c., taken chiefly from the Antique. Many of them carry us back to the very portraitures from which
    the old poets drew their inspirations."--Classical Museum.

For the convenience of Purchasers, the Work is arranged so as to be bound in Two Volumes, for
which proper Titles are given.

JOHN MURRAY, Albermarle Street. By JOHN LESLIE, 58. Great Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields,
London.

The above will be forwarded to any part of the kingdom, upon receipt of six Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIBLICAL LITERATURE

Just published, and may be had, Postage free, on a Remittance of 24 Postage Stamps.

A CLASSIFIED CATALOGUE of Editions and Versions of Holy Scripture: and of critical, explanatory,
and illustrative Works: including such patristic and ecclesiastical Writers as have treated
on Scriptural topics, the latter arranged so as to exhibit a chronological Series of Biblical
Interpretation down to the Reformation; with references under each head to authorities or sources
of information.

On sale by C.J. STEWART, 11. King William Street, West Strand, London.

