Each has a name of his own--the one, Chang, and the other, Eng; but, when persons wish to address
them as one--to claim their attention to anything, for example, or to call them--they are addressed
as--Chang Eng.

The union of twins is not an unusual occurrence, and various anatomical collections present
many such objects. Ambrose Paré relates several instances. Dr. Warren is, however, of opinion,
that the Siamese Boys present the most remarkable case of the lusus naturae which has yet been
known, taking into view the perfection and distinctness of organization, and the length of
time they have lived. The whole phenomenon may be described in a very few words--two perfect
bodies united and bound together by an inseparable link. As we have already stated, their health
is at present good; but, observes Dr. Warren, "it is probable that the change of their simple
living for the luxuries they now obtain, together with the confinement their situation necessarily
involves, will bring their lives to a close within a few years." We hope that such will not
be the result of their leaving their native shores; and we are much pleased with this passage
in a letter from Drs. Samuel Mitchill and Anderson to Capt. Coffin--"They (the youths) are
under the protection of a kind and benevolent gentleman, and we know you will take good care
of them, and if they live, return them to their homes again." Of their strength many instances
are related: since they have arrived in London they have lifted a gentleman of considerable
weight, with great ease; and on this point Drs. Mitchill and Anderson say--"As they are so
vigorous and alert, we readily coincide that in ten seconds they can lay a stout ordinary man
on his back."

We shall not go out of our way to state half the curious questions which forcibly arose in
our minds on visiting this interesting exhibition. One of the most important, and least easy
of solution, is the structure of the connecting band--how it is kept alive--whether blood flows
into and circulates through it from each, and passes into the system of the other--whether
it be composed of bone, as well as of cartilage--and whether it could be safely divided? Upon
examining the connexion, or cord, Dr. Warren says--"Placing my hand on this substance, I found
it extremely hard. On further examination, the hardness was found to exist at the upper part
of the cord only, and to be prolonged into the breast of each boy. Tracing it upwards, I found
it to be constituted by a prolongation of the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, or extremity
of the breast-bone. The cartilages proceeding from each sternum meet at an angle, and then
seem to be connected by a ligament, so as to form a joint. This joint has a motion upwards
and downwards, and also a lateral motion--the latter operating in such a way, that when the
boys turn in either direction, the edges of the cartilage are found to open and shut.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Besides this there is nothing remarkable felt in the connecting substance. I could distinguish
no pulsating vessel. The whole of this cord is covered by the skin. It is remarkably strong,
and has no great sensibility, for they allow themselves to be pulled by a rope fastened to
it, without exhibiting uneasiness. On ship board, one of them sometimes climbed on the capstan
of the vessel, the other following as well as he could, without complaining. When I first saw
the boys, I expected to see them pull on this cord in different directions, as their attention
was attracted by different objects. I soon perceived that this did not happen. The slightest
impulse of one to move in any direction is immediately followed by the other; so that they
appear to be influenced by the same wish."

This harmony in their movements, Dr. Warren thinks, is a habit formed by necessity. His further
account of their habits is extremely curious:

"They always face in one direction, standing nearly side by side, and are not able, without
inconvenience, to face in the opposite direction--so that one is always at the right, and the
other at the left. Although not placed exactly in a parallel line, they are able to run and
leap with surprising activity. On some occasions a gentleman, in sport, pursued them round
the ship, when they came suddenly to the hatchway, which had been inadvertently left open.
The least check would have thrown them down the hatchway, and probably killed one, or both,
but they leaped over it without difficulty. They differ in intellectual vigour; the perceptions
of one are more acute than those of the other, and there is a corresponding coincidence in
moral qualities. He who appears most intelligent is somewhat irritable in temper, while the
other's disposition is mild."

The connexion between these boys might present an opportunity for some interesting observations
in regard to physiology and pathology. There is, no doubt, a network of blood-vessels and some
minute nerves passing from one to the other. How far these parts are capable of transmitting
the action of medicines, and of diseases, and especially what medicines and diseases, are points
well worthy of consideration. Dr. W. thinks that any indisposition of one extends to the other;
that they are inclined to sleep at the same time; eat about the same quantity, and perform
other acts with great similarity. Both he and Mr. Hunter are of opinion that touching one of
them when they are asleep, awakens both. When they are awake, an impulse given to one does
not in the least affect the other. There is evidently no impression received by him who is
not touched. But the opinion just mentioned is undoubtedly erroneous. The slightest movement
of one is so speedily perceived by the other, as to deceive those who have not observed closely.
There is no part of them which has a common perception, excepting the middle of the connecting
cord, and a space near it. When a pointed instrument is applied precisely to the middle of
the cord, it is felt by both, and also for about an inch on each side; beyond which the impression
is limited to the individual of the side touched.

"In the function of the circulation there is a remarkable uniformity in the two bodies. The
pulsations of the hearts of both coincide exactly under ordinary circumstances. I counted seventy-three
pulsations in a minute while they were sitting--counting first in one boy and then in the other;
I then placed my fingers on an arm of each boy, and found the pulsations take place exactly
together. One of them stooping suddenly to look at my watch, his pulse became much quicker
than that of the other; but after he had returned to his former posture, in about a quarter
of a minute his pulse was precisely like that of the other; this happened repeatedly. Their
respirations are, of consequence, exactly simultaneous."

Dr. Warren next starts a question as to their moral identity, and says--"There is no reason
to doubt that the intellectual operations of the two are as perfectly distinct as those of
any two individuals who might be accidentally confined together. Whether similarity of education,
and identity of position as to external objects, have inspired them with any extraordinary
sameness of mental action, I am unable to say--any farther, at least, than that they seem to
agree in their habits and tastes." The concluding observation is on their separation, which
we may remark, appears to be to them a painful subject; for whenever it is mentioned, they
weep bitterly. Dr. Warren thinks an attempt to cut the cord, or separate them, would be attended
with danger, though not necessarily fatal, and as they are happy in their present state, he
reasonably enough thinks such an operation uncalled for. "Should one die before the other,"
adds he, "they should be cut apart immediately." He, however, quotes a case from Ambrose Paré,
of two girls united by the forehead, one of whom died at ten years of age, when a separation
was made; and the wound of the surviving girl soon proved fatal.

From the report of Drs. Mitchill and Anderson, we collect their opinion that the band which
joins these boys, has a canal with a protrusion of viscera from the abdomen of each boy, upon
every effort of coughing or other exercise. The sense of feeling on the skin of this band is
connected with each boy, as far as the middle of its length from his body. There can be no
doubt, but that if the band was cut across at any part, a large opening would be made into
the belly of each, and the wound prove fatal.

Such are the principal and most popular descriptive details of the Siamese Youths, with the
substance of the reports of the American physicians who have examined them. Of course, we look
with some anxiety for the opinions of the professional men of our own country. Of equal importance
are the questions connected with the minds of the two youths, which can only be settled by
continued observation. The phenomenon is altogether of the most attractive character, and will
doubtless receive all the attention it deserves from our savans, as well as from all those
who delight in witnessing the curiosities of Nature.

       *        *        *        *        *

CURTIUS.

A DRAMATIC SKETCH.

(For the Mirror.)

The Roman Forum.--An opening in the ground. M. Curtius, Soothsayers, and a vast concourse of
Citizens.

Cit.--Place ingot upon ingot, till the mass exceed
  The bulk of Croesus' wealth, or Sardanapalus' pile.
  Let every Roman contribution bring
  An offering worthy of his house, since what
  Is valued most must in the gulf be cast,
  To save us from an overwhelming death.
  A richer treasure than the gorgeous Xerxes knew
  Will we entomb.

Cur.--How base the offering that were made in gold.
  What are riches to the blood that flows
  Within a good man's veins? rather let him
  Who is the wisest, bravest, best amongst us
  Fall in this fearful pit. Now ye who read
  The hidden books of nature say--who is
  The man most envied by his fellows,--by the gods
  Most lov'd?--That man is more than all the gems
  This teeming earth can boast. Name but that man
  And in an instant shall the debt be paid;
  For Rome's best patriot is her greatest good.

Sooth.--Ay, noble Curtius, and that man art thou,
  Thy words proclaim thy patriotic blood!
  Thy tongue first names the gift that angry heav'n
  Asks of rebellious earth. We need thy life.
  Destruction hovers o'er the trembling crew,
  That fills this little forum. Thou alone,
  The noblest, bravest, wisest, best of us,
  Canst scare the monster from the frowning skies,
  And fill the gulf that yawns beneath us.
  Die, Curtius, and thy name shall be enroll'd
  With gods and heroes--honour'd, lov'd, and fam'd.
  When senates are forgot!

Cur.--Since then by dying I can refound Rome,
  For Rome preserv'd is built and born again.
  Be mine a Roman's death. Else 'twere in vain
  That once Eneas toil'd--that Romulus bore sway!
  In vain the matron's tears subdued her flinty son!
  In vain did Manlius for his country fight!
  In vain Lucretia and Virginia bleed!
  Romans, farewell!--I look around and see
  A band of augurs--an assembled senate,
  Plebeians and patricians--
  A people and a nation met together
  In council to avert calamity,
  And all are friends. Farewell, farewell, farewell!
  Favourites of Fortune what is it to die?
  Ye sons of pleasure! look on him who once
  Did sternly look on you--who dies for you!
  Scions of Victory! how cracks the heart,
  In that short moment of a bright career,
  When the last echo from the couch of Fame
  Falls on the dying ear? Oh! this mine act
  Were best done whilst the blood is warm--lest time
  For thought should mar the purpose. Thought?--a glorious deed
  Needs none. Come horse!--and at one fearful bound
  Plunge in the gulf beneath!

Curtius leaps into the chasm.

Sooth.--The gods attest the worth of this bold youth.

Cit.--The chasm closes--and the dangers pass:
  With buried Curtius following envy lies,
  Nor dare she lift her sickly head
  Above his giant grave.

CYMBELINE.

       *        *        *        *        *

ETYMOLOGICAL CURIOSITIES.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Probably the following observations upon singular words, may amuse some of your readers. I
should, however, premise that as regards myself, the greater part are not original.

Without further preface, allow me in the first place to call your attention to a word, which,
by adding a syllable, becomes shorter, viz. the word short--on the other hand we have words
of one syllable, which, by taking away two letters, become words of two syllables, as plague,
league, both of which, by such an elision, leave ague. By dropping the two first letters of
the word monosyllable, we have no syllable remaining.

It has been remarked that heroine is one of the most peculiar words in our language, as it
may be thus divided--the two first letters of it are male--the three first female--the four
first a brave man, and the whole word a brave woman. Thus: he, her, hero, heroine. A beggar
may address himself, and say, mend I can't!--leave out the apostrophe and he still remains
a mendicant. Tartar, papa, murmur, etc. may be noticed as doubling the first syllable, and
eye, level, and other words as having the same meaning whether read backwards or forwards.
Some few by a reverse reading give a different sense as leper, revel, etc.

W.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON THE SCHOOL OF PAINTING, AT THE BRITISH INSTITUTION.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

My first view of the copies at the British Institution being rather too cursory to allow me
to do ample justice to several of much merit. Another visit has enabled me to make a few additional
remarks on the performances of many worthy young aspirants, who, it is presumed, will receive
fresh stimulus from the approbation extended to them.

In my last notice, which appeared in No. 396, of the MIRROR, I adverted to Miss Sharpe's water-colour
drawing of the Holy Family, by Sir J. Reynolds; this is really an inimitable copy, possessing
all the richness of tint, and even the boldness and texture, of the original. It is unquestionably
the finest copy in water ever executed in the Institution, to which, as well as to the talented
lady, it is a very high honour. From the numerous small copies in oil of the Holy Family, I
regret not being able to select more than one--that by Mr. Sargeant.

Mr. Heaphy, in all his drawings, evinces considerable artistical knowledge; his small study
from Vandyke's Portrait of a Gentleman is admirable in colour and execution.

Messrs. Drake, Fussell, and Sargeant, have cleverly imitated the fine Cattle Piece, by Cuyp;
and Messrs. Pasmore and Novice deserve notice for their studies from Gainsborough's large landscape
with figures. Messrs. Anderson and Woolmer are the best imitators of Berghem's Landscape and
Cattle; and the Interior of a Kitchen, by Maaes, has met with the greatest possible attention
from Miss Alabaster, Mr. Bone, Jun., and Messrs. Novice and Buss. The best attempts from the
Canaletti are by Miss Dujardin, Mr. F. Watts, and D. Pasmore, Jun. From the copies of Titian's
Holy Family, we may prefer Mr. Rochard's, which is the same size as the original.

Guercino's magnificent work, the Soul of St. Peter ascending into Heaven attended by Angels,
which was formerly an altar-piece, has been copied in small. This is not, perhaps, at first
sight, a very attractive picture; but the longer we look at it, the longer we seem disposed
to admire it, for it insensibly conveys to the mind sublime ideas, seldom experienced before.

Perhaps the most novel performance in the present school is by Mr. Davis; representing a View
of the Gallery, with all the original pictures, the different styles of which he has well succeeded
in. His work is a sort of multum in parvo, extremely pretty and interesting.

To conclude--the copies by Mrs. Pearson, Miss Farrier, Miss Kearsley, &c. are very clever;
as are those by Messrs. Wate, Phillips, Brough, Hastings, Mackay, and Irving.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST

       *       *       *       *       *

ISABEL.

Several years ago I took up my abode at the retired village of D----. I had chosen this residence
on account of its sequestered situation, as solitude was, at that time, more accordant to my
feelings than the bustle of a populous town. At no great distance from my habitation stood
the Castle of D----, an ancient Gothic structure, sinking fast into decay. The last of its
original possessors had been dead more than half a century, and it was the property of a gentleman
who resided on the continent. The interior of the mansion spoke loudly of desolation and ruin:
the state apartments were despoiled of their magnificent decorations, and scarcely a vestige
remained of their former splendour. An aged female domestic was the sole inhabitant of this
deserted pile. Born in the service of the family of D----, she had survived the last of its
race, and remained a solitary relic of that illustrious house. It was the business of old Alice
to show the castle to strangers; and I soon became a favourite with her, from the interest
I appeared to take in the fate of its former inhabitants. The gallery was our chief resort;
and, finding me a willing listener, my ancient companion delighted to inform me of all tradition
had supplied her with, respecting the mighty warriors and stately dames, whose portraits still
hung on the walls, smiling, as if in mockery of the desolation around.

One fine autumnal evening found me, as usual, in my favourite retreat. The rays of the departing
sun streamed in rich dyes through the coloured window, and fell with softened glory on the
picture of a bridal ceremony. I was surprised that it had never before engaged my attention.
The bridegroom was young, graceful, and noble--the bride, fair, soft, and delicate. By her
side stood a form of unequalled loveliness: it seemed too beautiful to have belonged to a daughter
of earth; and I imagined the painter had designed it to represent the guardian saint of the
youthful pair. I inquired of my ancient conductress the history of this picture, and whether
the beautiful female was not an ideal being? "Alas!" said she, "it commemorates a heavy day
for the house of D----; on that day the last and fairest of its race sunk the victim of unrequited
affection. That is her picture; but, oh! her soul was more angelic than her person; she"--but,
reader, let me give the story in my own words. The Lady Isabel was the last descendant of the
family of D----; her father had fallen in battle; his lady did not long survive him; and thus,
at an early age, Isabel became an orphan. Her mother's brother was appointed her guardian,
and, with his son Albert, came to reside at the Castle. The children, thus insulated from the
world, and educated entirely at home, saw nothing so worthy to be loved as each other, and
their attachment was as romantic as the scenes around them. They both (but particularly Isabel)
delighted in the high chivalrous legends of antiquity--and the tales of eternal constancy and
self-devoted affection recorded of some of the earlier heroines of her family, were read with
sacred veneration by the young enthusiast. In a mind of ordinary temperament, little harm would
have resulted from the indulgence of such a taste; to the impassioned soul of Isabel it was
destructive and fatal. Deprived by death of the mother who might have taught her to restrain
and regulate her ardent feelings, they acquired by neglect additional strength, and eventually
concentrated into a passion deep and lasting as her existence. As years passed on, so did her
love increase; she regarded Albert as the perfection of human excellence, and worshipped him
with all the full devotedness of her warm heart. It was not so with Albert; he thought of his
fair cousin with pride--with tenderness; but it was only the calm affection of a brother: other
feelings than those of love possessed him--he languished for fame, for honourable distinction
among his fellow men, and at length left his peaceful home, and the sweet companion of his
youth, to fight the battles of his country. His career was glorious; and after an absence of
three years, he was recalled by the death of his father. Isabel welcomed him with rapturous
joy; he embraced her with a brother's fondness, and gazed with delight on her improved beauty.
He suspected not that she loved him with more than a sisterly affection, and thought not of
the wound he was about to inflict on this tender, enthusiastic being. He told her of his attachment
to a fair girl, who had consented to become his bride at the expiration of the term of mourning
for his father. She heard him with death-like silence, checked the groan that was bursting
from her agonized heart, and strove to assume a look of cheerfulness. Retired to the solitude
of her apartment, she wept in bitter anguish--her young soul was blighted; she had nothing
left to live for; hope, happiness, and love were at an end; for love would now be guilt. At
length she grew calm, but it was the fearful calmness of despair; she complained not--reproached
not; for she felt that she had been self-deceived; she could not, however, conceal the devastation
which sorrow was making in her graceful form. Albert beheld her with concern, but ascribed
the alteration to her grief for his father's loss, for Isabel had tenderly loved her uncle.
She rejoiced at his mistake, and attempted not to undeceive him: one only wish possessed her--it
was, to see the chosen of her Albert; and, with a feverish impatience, she urged him to accelerate
his nuptials. The appointed day arrived--Isabel, attired in robes of richest state, stood beside
the altar, and witnessed the annihilation of all her earthly happiness; still she sunk not;
but, with a mighty effort, pronounced a blessing on the wedded pair. The excitement brought
back a vivid colour to her cheeks, and rekindled the lustre of her large dark eyes. The painter
had seized that moment to depict her glowing form--the enthusiasm was but momentary--her angel
face soon lost its lovely tint, and her beautiful eyes sunk again into languor. The castle
was thronged with noble guests--sick at heart the wretched Isabel wandered abstractedly amid
the gay assembly--her large floating eyes seemed straying vacantly around, until they met the
bridegroom's look of joy. Then came the madness of recollection; with a convulsive shuddering
she averted her head, and stole unnoticed from the company. Morning came, but she appeared
not; her chamber was searched--she had not entered it. Albert flew distractedly into the park,
and, at length perceived her quietly sitting by the side of the lake, near a bower, which,
when a boy, he had helped to decorate. She was still clad in the robes of last night's festival.
He ran eagerly towards her--she spoke not--he entreated her to answer him, but he implored
in vain--there was neither breath, nor sense, nor motion--she was dead! 'Twas a mournful sight!
one white hand, stiffened to marble, was pressed upon her broken heart, as she had sought to
stay its painful throbbings--the cold night dews hung in large drops upon her silken hair,
and shed a tremulous gleam upon the diamonds that sparkled on her pale, icy forehead--the withered
leaves had found a resting place upon her bosom, and her white garments were embroidered by
their many colourings. The castle became hateful to Albert after this event: he removed to
a distant part of the country, and never again revisited the scenes of his earlier years. He
also was dead; and Isabel, her love, and her despair, were forgotten by all, save one aged,
isolated being, whose time-whitened locks and decrepit frame showed that she too was rapidly
descending to the silence of the grave.

London University Magazine. No. II.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOLES

Are so voracious as not even to spare their own species. If two are shut up together without
food, there will shortly be nothing left of the weakest but its skin, slit along the belly.--Cuvier.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTCH ALE.

The strength of Scotch ale, whence it deserves the name, ranges between 32 and 44 pounds weight
to the imperial barrel, according to the price at which it is meant to be sold. The general
mode of charge is by the hogshead (about a barrel and a half,) for which five pounds, six,
seven, or eight pounds are paid, as the quality may warrant; the strength for every additional
pound of price being increased by about four pounds per barrel of weight.--Library of Useful
Knowledge.--Scotch two-penny was so called because it was sold at twopence the Scotch pint,
which was nearly two English quarts.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a Scotch brewer's instructions for Scotch ale, dated 1793, we meet with the following curious
mystical instruction:--"I throw a little dry malt, which is left on purpose, on the top of
the mash, with a handful of salt, to keep the witches from it, and then cover it up. Perhaps
this custom gave rise to the vulgar term water bewitched for indifferent beer."

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN LAW.

A recent traveller, in describing the American courts of law and their proceedings, says, in
one instance Counsellor Lloyd had grossly insulted Judge Turner in the street, and was tried
for the offence by the judge. He was half-drunk, but defended himself by the vilest abuse of
the judge, who could not silence him. No jury was appealed to; but (we suppose for contempt
of court) he was ordered to give security for one year's good behaviour, and, not procuring
sufficient bail, was committed to prison.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Galwegians who attended David I. of Scotland to Custon Moor, had a favourite amusement
of tossing infants upon their pikes!

       *       *       *       *       *

A CAT STORY.

Lady Morgan tells a story of an "amiable and intelligent" grimalkin, which belonged to a young
girl who was subject to epileptic fits. Puss, by dint of repeated observation, knew when they
were coming on, and would run, frisking her tail, to the girl's parents, mewing in the most
heart-breaking tones, and clawing at their legs, till she made them follow her. Her name was
Mina; and her history is extant in "choice Italian." At length the girl died, and poor puss
went to the funeral of her own accord. Being a black cat, she was already in mourning--"nature's
mourning!" She wanted to jump into the grave, but that was prevented. So puss, the "chief mourner,"
was carried home again. But her amiable heart could not survive the shock, for, after pining
three months, refusing boiled liver and new milk, poor grimalkin was found "dead upon the green
mound that covered her beloved mistress's remains." There was a cat for you!

       *       *       *       *       *

TURKS AND RUSSIANS.

The character of the Russ differs from that of the Turk in little more than in the quality
of his barbarism. The Turk loves blood;--the Russ loves craft;--The Turk takes at once to the
dagger;--the Russ begins by the snare; but when the matter presses, he will use the steel as
readily as any Turk on earth. The ferocity of the Turk flourishes in the streets, in his own
house, in the seraglio--every where that he has a victim within his reach, and that it pleases
him to destroy that victim. The Russ knows something more of the law, and is by no means so
domestic a cut-throat; but his mercy in the field or in the stormed city, is massacre.--Monthly
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PITT.

Lady Hester Stanhope related the following to Mr. Madden:--

When Mr. Pitt was out of office, I acted as his secretary, and he had then as much business
as when he was in. He very seldom opposed my opinions, and always respected my antipathies.
In private life he was cheerful and affable; he would rise in the midst of his gravest avocations
to hand me a fallen handkerchief; he was always polite to women, and a great favourite with
many of them; but he was wedded to the state, and nothing but death could divorce him from
his country. He was fond of me; he loved originality in any shape. His great recreation, after
the fatigue of business, was stealing into the country, entering a clean cottage, where there
was a tidy woman and a nicely-scoured table, and there he would eat bread and cheese like any
ploughman. He detested routs, and always sat down to plain dinners. He never ate before he
went to the House; but when any thing important was to be discussed, he was in the habit of
taking a glass of port wine with a tea-spoonful of bark.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH AND FRENCH.

