READING MADE EASY FOR FOREIGNERS

Third Reader

BY

JOHN L. HÜLSHOF

TEACHER OF MODERN LANGUAGES IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

OF NEW YORK CITY

HINDS, NOBLE & ELDREDGE

31-33-35 West 15th Street, New York City

COPYRIGHT, 1909,

BY

HINDS, NOBLE & ELDREDGE

PREFACE

This Reader is intended more particularly for pupils in Class A of the public evening schools.

The pupils of this class may be considered as having passed the transition stage of which mention
was made in the Second Reader, and as having entered upon the last stage in acquiring the English
language.

They have not only acquired a considerable vocabulary, but have now a practical mastery of
our vernacular.  They use English in their conversation; in short, they have acquired the power
of expressing their feelings and thoughts in the English language.  Notwithstanding all this,
they are conscious of the fact that their language is less idiomatic than that of the native
born, and their power over the written expression is wofully weak.

To remedy these defects, they flock to the evening schools.  They have decided to make this
country their permanent home, and they are deeply interested in everything appertaining to
our government, our institutions, our literature, in fact our civilization.

A glance at the contents of this reader will convince the experienced teacher that the reading
material is many-sided enough to satisfy the demands of both teacher and pupils.

That this series of readers may become a powerful incentive in implanting right ideals of social
conduct, and lay the foundation of true American citizenship, is the heartfelt wish of

THE AUTHOR.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

REMARKS TO THE TEACHER

LESSONS.

       I.  FLAG DAY
      II.  BREATHE PURE AIR
     III.  COFFEE
      IV.  OUR NATIONAL FLAG
       V.  PRESS ON
      VI.  RESIGNATION
     VII.  STATUE OF LIBERTY IN NEW YORK HARBOR
    VIII.  INDEPENDENCE
      IX.  NEWFOUNDLAND
       X.  THE USE OF TRIFLES
      XI.  ROSA BONHEUR
     XII.  ALEXANDER AND THE ROBBER
    XIII.  THE AMERICAN INDIAN
     XIV.  THE FIRST STEAMBOAT
      XV.  KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION
     XVI.  TACT AND TALENT
    XVII.  GEORGE WASHINGTON, PART I
   XVIII.  BEHAVIOR
     XIX.  ESSENCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES
      XX.  THE ART OF OBSERVATION
     XXI.  LETTERS
    XXII.  REAPING AND MOWING MACHINES
   XXIII.  ALI BABA
    XXIV.  BIRDS
     XXV.  SLEEP
    XXVI.  CURIOUS BIRDS' NESTS
   XXVII.  BUSINESS QUALIFICATIONS
  XXVIII.  ABBREVIATIONS OF NAMES OF STATES
    XXIX.  THE SUN
     XXX.  IVORY
    XXXI.  FLOWERS
   XXXII.  THE MOSQUITO
  XXXIII.  SELF-RELIANCE
   XXXIV.  FRANKLIN'S TOAST
    XXXV.  HUMANITY REWARDED
   XXXVI.  WORK PROCLAIMS A WORKMAN
  XXXVII.  REPUBLICS
 XXXVIII.  FALSE NOTIONS OF LIBERTY
   XXXIX.  THE VOICE
      XL.  THE INTREPID YOUTH
     XLI.  AUTUMN
    XLII.  WORDS AND THEIR MEANING
   XLIII.  HOW TO SELECT A BOY
    XLIV.  SALT
     XLV.  STUDIES
    XLVI.  RULES OF BEHAVIOR
   XLVII.  USING THE EYES
  XLVIII.  THE AFFECTION AND REVERENCE DUE A MOTHER
    XLIX.  WHEAT
       L.  COUNTENANCE AND CHARACTER
      LI.  THE VALUE OF TIME
     LII.  THE STUDY OF CIVICS
    LIII.  THE SEA AND ITS USES
     LIV.  WONDERLAND
      LV.  OUR COUNTRY TO-DAY, PART I
     LVI.  OUR COUNTRY TO-DAY, PART II
    LVII.  PICTURES FROM AMERICAN HISTORY
   LVIII.  THOMAS A. EDISON
     LIX.  ABRAHAM LINCOLN
      LX.  ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE DEDICATION OF
           THE CEMETERY AT GETTYSBURG
     LXI.  WAGES
    LXII.  LOVE FOR THE DEAD
   LXIII.  ECONOMY OF TIME
    LXIV.  GEORGE STEPHENSON, THE ENGINEER
     LXV.  GEORGE WASHINGTON, PART II
    LXVI.  BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
   LXVII.  NOBILITY REWARDED

POETRY

SELECTION.

       I.  A CITY STREET
      II.  THE SHIP OF STATE
     III.  BE TRUE
      IV.  BRING BACK MY FLOWERS
       V.  "OLD IRONSIDES"
      VI.  TREASURE TROVE
     VII.  THE HERITAGE
    VIII.  THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER
      IX.  THE SWORD OF BUNKER HILL
       X.  THE HUNTERS
      XI.  MY FATHERLAND
     XII.  WOODMAN, SPARE THAT TREE
    XIII.  PRAYER IN BATTLE
     XIV.  THE RETORT
      XV.  A PSALM OF LIFE
     XVI.  THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET
    XVII.  OFT IN THE STILLY NIGHT
   XVIII.  THE PICKET OF THE POTOMAC
     XIX.  COLUMBIA, THE GEM OF THE OCEAN; OR,
           RED, WHITE, AND BLUE
      XX.  RECESSIONAL
     XXI.  HUMAN PROGRESS
    XXII.  GIVE ME THE PEOPLE

MISCELLANEOUS

CHARACTERISTIC OF HEROISM CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE FREEDOM
OF THOUGHT USEFUL INFORMATION WISE SAYINGS

REMARKS TO THE TEACHER

Complete answers should be given by the pupils.  The simple words "yes" or "no" do not constitute
an answer in these exercises; such expressions give no practice in the use of the language.

The teacher should prepare himself thoroughly for each lesson in order to ask many pointed
questions relative to the reading matter.

The entire time spent in reading the lesson and questioning the class should not exceed thirty
minutes.  Too much detail will only confuse and fatigue the pupils.  Five or six words that
present any difficulty either in spelling or pronunciation may be selected from the reading
lesson for dictation.  Such words should not be given singly, but rather in short sentences.

These sentences may first be read by the class from the blackboard and then copied.  After
new slips have been distributed, the same sentences should then be written from dictation (the
writing on the blackboard being covered or erased in the meantime).  The pupils are afterwards
required to compare their work with that on the board and make the necessary corrections themselves.

READING MADE EASY FOR FOREIGNERS

THIRD READER

LESSON I

FLAG DAY

In this fair land of ours you can see the Stars and Stripes floating over every public school.
This beautiful flag stands for our country. Every American is proud of his country's flag.
It stands for all that is good and dear to an American.  It stands for Liberty.  It proclaims
liberty to all.  Every star stands for liberty.  Every stripe stands for liberty.  It stands
for liberty of thought and liberty of speech as well.

The first American flag was made in June, 1777, by Mrs. Ross, in the city of Philadelphia.
When General Washington saw the flag, he was delighted with it.  Every American is not only
delighted with it, but he loves the dear old flag.  The fourteenth day of June of each year
is set apart as Flag Day.

"I pledge allegiance to my flag and the Republic for which it stands; one nation indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all."

DEVELOPMENT OF THE ABOVE LESSON ACCORDING TO THE RATIONAL METHOD.

See Remarks to the Teacher, Page vii.

What kind of a land is ours?  What is meant by the stars and stripes? Over what buildings do
we see the flag floating?  What kind of a flag is it?  For what does our flag stand?  For what
else does it stand? What does our flag proclaim?  Who is proud of the flag?  What does our
flag tell to all the people?  How many stars are there in the flag? For what does each star
stand?  When was the first American flag made? By whom was it made?  In what city was it made?
What did Washington think of it when he saw it?  How do we Americans look upon the flag? When
is Flag Day?  etc., etc.

DICTATION EXERCISES

See Remarks to the Teacher, Page vii.

Our country has a beautiful flag.  This flag proclaims or declares liberty to the people. 
I am delighted with my country's flag.  I pledge allegiance or fidelity to my flag.  Our nation
is indivisible; it cannot be parted.

SELECTION I

A CITY STREET

  I love the woods, the fields, the streams,
    The wild flowers fresh and sweet,
  And yet I love no less than these
    The crowded city street;
  For haunts of men, where'er they be,
  Awake my deepest sympathy.

  I see within the city street
    Life's most extreme estates;
  The gorgeous domes of palaces;
    The dismal prison gates;
  The hearths by household virtues blest,
  The dens that are the serpent's nest.

  I see the rich man, proudly fed
    And richly clothed, pass by;
  I see the shivering, houseless wretch
    With hunger in his eye;
  For life's severest contrasts meet
  Forever in the city street.

  Hence is it that a city street
    Can deepest thoughts impart,
  For all its people, high and low,
    Are kindred to my heart;
  And with a yearning love I share
  In all their joy, their pain, their care.

  Mary Howitt.

Questions: Can you put this little poem in prose?  Tell what you admire in nature.  Then tell
what you observe in the city.  Tell about the rich and where they live.  Also about the poor
and how they are housed and clothed.  Let us write a composition together.

LESSON II

BREATHE PURE AIR

Some boys were playing hide-and-seek one day, when one of their number thought it would be
good sport to hide little Robert in a large empty trunk.  He did so and then turned the key
in the lock.  The little fellow in the chest was very quiet indeed, and they almost forgot
about him.  After some time they thought of him and some one went to the trunk and asked: "Hello,
Robert.  Do you want to come out now?"  No answer came.  They opened the trunk and found poor
little Robert nearly dead.  The doctor had to be called, and he worked long and hard to restore
the poor boy to health.

The air which we breathe out is not fit to be breathed in again.  We soon use up, in this way,
all the pure air about us.  So we must have a fresh supply.  As soon as Robert had breathed
in all the good air that was in the trunk, there was nothing left but poisoned air.  If fresh
air had not been given to him by opening the trunk, he could not have lived three minutes longer.

Nothing is so needful to health as good, pure air.  Whether you are in the schoolroom or in
the house, remember this.  Bad air is so much poison, and the more we breathe it the worse
it gets.  The poison is carbonic acid, and to breathe it long is certain death.

Not many years ago, during a storm at sea, a stupid sea-captain ordered his passengers to go
below in the hold of the vessel.  Then he covered up the hold, so that no fresh air could enter.
When the storm was over he opened the hold, and found that seventy human beings had died for
want of pure air.

Through his gross ignorance of the laws of life, he had done all this mischief.  Remember what
I say: insist on having good air; for impure air, though it may not always kill you, is always
bad for your health.

LESSON III

COFFEE

Coffee is made from the berries of a tree called the coffee plant, or coffee tree.  This tree
grows in some of the hot countries of the world, as Brazil, Cuba, Arabia, and Java.  The best
coffee comes from Arabia.  But most of the coffee that is used in this country comes from Brazil.

When first known, the coffee tree was a wild shrub growing among the hills of Caffa, in the
northeastern part of Africa.  But when people learned what a pleasant drink could be made from
its berries, they began to take it into other countries, where they cultivated it with much care.

There is an old story told of a shepherd who, it is said, was the first to use this drink.
He noticed that after his goats had fed on the leaves of a certain tree--the coffee plant--they
were always very lively and wakeful.  So he took some of the leaves and berries of the plant,
and boiling them in water, he made a drink for himself.  He found it so pleasant to the taste
that he told some of his neighbors about it.  They tried it and were as much pleased as himself.
And so, little by little, the drink came, after a while, into common use.

The coffee plant is a beautiful little tree, growing sometimes to the height of twenty feet.
It has smooth, dark leaves, long and pointed. It has pretty, white blossoms, which grow in
thick clusters close to the branches.  Its fruit looks a little like a cherry; and within it
are the coffee berries, two in each cherry.

When ripe, the red fruit turns to a deep purple and is sweet to the taste.  In Arabia the fruit
is allowed to fall on mats placed under the trees; but in other countries it is commonly gathered
as soon as it is ripe, and it is then dried by being placed on mats in the sun.

After the outside part has been removed the berries are again dried. They are then put in sacks
and boxes to be sent into other parts of the world.

LESSON IV

OUR NATIONAL FLAG

There is a national flag.  He must be cold indeed who can look upon its folds rippling in the
breeze without pride of country.  If he be in a foreign land, the flag is companionship and
country itself with all its endearments.  Who, as he sees it, can think of a state merely?
Whose eyes, once fastened upon it, can fail to recognize the image of the whole nation?  It
has been called a "floating piece of poetry."

Its highest beauty is in what it symbolizes.  It is because it represents all, that all gaze
at it with delight and reverence.  It is a piece of bunting lifted in the air, but it speaks
sublimely, and every part has a voice.  Its stripes of alternate red and white proclaim the
original union of thirteen states.  Its stars of white on a field of blue proclaim the union
of the states.  A new star is added with every new state.  The very colors have a language,
which was understood by our fathers.

White is for purity, red for valor, blue for justice.  Thus the bunting, stripes and stars
together, make the flag of our country--loved by all our hearts and upheld by all our hands.

LESSON V

"PRESS ON"

This is a speech, brief, but full of inspiration, and opening the way to all victory.  The
secret of Napoleon's career was this,--under all difficulties and discouragements, "Press on."
It solves the problem of all heroes; it is the rule by which to weigh rightly all wonderful
successes and triumphal marches to fortune and genius.  It should be the motto of all, old
and young, high and low, fortunate and unfortunate, so called.

"Press on."  Never despair; never be discouraged, however stormy the heavens, however dark
the way; however great the difficulties, and repeated the failures, "Press on."

If fortune hath played false with thee today, do thou play true for thyself to-morrow.  If
thy riches have taken wings and left thee, do not weep thy life away; but be up and doing,
and retrieve the loss by new energies and action.  If an unfortunate bargain has deranged thy
business, do not fold thy arms, and give up all as lost; but stir thyself and work the more
vigorously.

If those whom thou hast trusted have betrayed thee, do not be discouraged, do not idly weep,
but "Press on."  Find others: or, what is better, learn to live within thyself.  Let the foolishness
of yesterday make thee wise to-day.

LESSON VI

RESIGNATION

Rabbi Meir, the great teacher, sat one Sabbath day in the school of the holy law, and taught
the people.  The rabbi had two sons, who were youths of great promise and well instructed in
the law.  On that Sabbath day they both died.

Tenderly their mother bore them to an upper chamber, laid them on her bed, and spread a white
sheet over their bodies.

In the evening Rabbi Meir came home.  "Where are my sons," asked he, "that I may give them
my blessing?"

"They are gone into the school of the law," was his wife's reply.

"I looked around me," said he, "and I did not see them."

She set before him a cup; he praised the Lord for the close of the Sabbath, drank, and then
asked again, "Where are my sons, that they may also drink of the wine of blessing?"

"They cannot be far off," said his wife, as she placed food before him and begged him to eat.

When he had given thanks after the meal, she said, "Rabbi, allow me a question."

"Speak, my beloved," answered he.

"Some time ago," said she, "a certain one gave me jewels to keep for him, and now he asks them
back.  Shall I give him them?"

"My wife should not need to ask such a question," said Rabbi Meir. "Would you hesitate to give
anyone back his own?"

"Oh, no," replied she, "but I did not like to give them back without your knowing beforehand."
Then she led him to the upper chamber, stepped in, and took the covering off the bodies.

"Oh, my sons," sobbed the father, "my sons, my sons!"  The mother turned herself away and wept.

Soon, however, his wife took him by the hand and said: "Rabbi, have you not taught me that
we must not refuse to give back what was intrusted to us to keep?  See, the Lord gave, and
the Lord hath taken away: the name of the Lord be blessed."

And Rabbi Meir repeated the words, and said from the depths of his heart, "Amen."

LESSON VII

STATUE OF LIBERTY IN NEW YORK HARBOR

"Liberty," or Bartholdi's statue, was presented to the United States by the French people in
1885.  It is the largest statue ever built.  The great French sculptor Bartholdi made it after
the likeness of his mother.  Eight years were consumed in the construction of this gigantic
image.  Its size is really enormous.  The height of the figure alone is fully one hundred and
fifty feet.  Forty persons can find standing room within the mighty head, which is fifteen
feet in diameter.  A six-foot man, standing upon the lower lip, can hardly reach the eyes of
the colossal head.  The index finger is eight feet long, and the nose is over three feet long.
Yet the proportion of all the parts of the figure is so well preserved that the whole statue
is in perfect harmony.

The materials of which the statue is composed are copper and steel. The immense torch which
is held in the hand of the giantess is three hundred feet above tidewater.

The Colossus of Rhodes was a pigmy compared with this huge wonder.

LESSON VIII

INDEPENDENCE

Scholars, who are enjoying the priceless blessings of that liberty which cost our forefathers
so much treasure and so much blood,--have you read the Declaration of Independence?

SELECTION III

  BE TRUE

  Thou must be true thyself,
    If thou the truth wouldst teach;
  Thy soul must overflow, if thou
    Another's soul would'st reach;
  It needs the overflow of hearts
    To give the lips full speech.

  Think truly, and thy thoughts
    Shall the world's famine feed;
  Speak truly, and each word of thine
    Shall be a fruitful seed;
  Live truly, and thy life shall be
    A great and noble creed.

  Anonymous.

LESSON IX

NEWFOUNDLAND

Newfoundland is an island about the size of New York State.  It belongs to England.  The cod
fisheries there are very extensive.

The people of Newfoundland are strong, healthy and industrious.  They are law-abiding, and
serious; crime is very rare among them.  Their kindness and hospitality to strangers who visit
the country are proverbial.  Kindness to the poor and unfortunate is a marked feature in the
character of the people.  When business is poor they are ready to share their last morsel with
those in distress.

The fishermen are the working classes of the country.  During the height of the fishery season,
and when fish are abundant, their labors are severe; but during winter they are for the most
part in a condition of enforced idleness.   Much of the work of curing the fish is done by
women and girls, and their labors are often very heavy.  When the fisheries are over, there
are boats, nets, etc., to repair, stages to look after, and fuel to be cut in the woods and
hauled over the snow.

If the fishery has been successful, then the fisherman has a balance coming to him after paying
for his summer supplies, and is enabled to lay in a stock of provisions for the winter.

Winter is the season for enjoyment among the fishermen.  This season for fireside enjoyments,
home-born pleasures, is welcome.  They have their simple social enjoyments of various kinds.
Dancing is a favorite winter amusement among the fishermen and their families.  Weddings are
celebrated with great festivity.

Newfoundland is often regarded as the very paradise of sportsmen.  Its countless lakes and
ponds abound with trout of the finest description, and these bodies of water are the abodes
of the wild goose, the wild duck, and other fresh-water fowl.

The pine forests are the home of numerous wild animals.  The fox, the bear and the caribou
furnish the highest prizes for the hunter.

SELECTION IV

  BRING BACK MY FLOWERS

  A child sat by a limpid stream,
    And gazed upon the tide beneath;
  Upon her cheek was joy's bright beam,
    And on her brow a blooming wreath.
  Her lap was filled with fragrant flowers,
    And, as the clear brook babbled by,
  She scattered down the rosy showers,
    With many a wild and joyous cry,
  And laughed to see the mingling tide
  Upon its onward progress glide.

  And time flew on, and flower by flower
    Was cast upon the sunny stream;
  But when the shades of eve did lower,
    She woke up from her blissful dream.
  "Bring back my flowers!" she wildly cried;
    "Bring back the flowers I flung to thee!"
  But echo's voice alone replied,
    As danced the streamlet down the lea;
  And still, amid night's gloomy hours,
  In vain she cried, "Bring back my flowers!"

  O maiden, who on time's swift stream
    Dost gayly see the moments flee,
  In this poor child's delusive dream
    An emblem may be found of thee.
  Each moment is a perfumed rose,
    Into thy hand by mercy given,
  That thou its fragrance might dispose
    And let its incense rise to heaven;
  Else when death's shadow o'er thee lowers,
  Thy heart will wail, "Bring back my flowers!"

  Lucy Larcom.

LESSON X

THE USE OF TRIFLES

A certain painter once said he had become great in his art by never neglecting trifles.  It
would be well for all of us to follow that simple and easy rule.  No man's house but would
be more comfortable, and no family but would be more cheerful, if the value of trifles and
the art of using them were better understood.  Attention to trifles is the true art of economy.

We must, however, take care not to confound economy with parsimony. The former means a frugal
and judicious use of things without waste, the latter a too close and sparing use of things
needed.  Now a person who understands the use of little things is economical; for instance.
If you wipe a pen before you put it away it will last twice as long as if you do not.

Generally the habits we acquire in our youth we carry with us into old age; hence the necessity
of proper training in childhood.  A woman who attends to trifles and has habits of economy
will not hastily throw away bits of cotton or worsted, nor will she waste soap by letting it
lie in the water.  She will keep an eye to the pins and matches, knowing that the less often
such things are bought, the more is saved. She will not think it above her care to mend the
clothes or darn the stockings, remembering that "a stitch in time saves nine."

LESSON XI

ROSA BONHEUR

Rosa Bonheur was born at Bordeaux, France, the daughter of a painter. Her father was her first
teacher in art.

At an early age, when most children draw in an aimless way, her father guided his little girl's
efforts with his own experienced hand.  He taught her to study and sketch from nature instead
of relying on copies.

As a child she cared nothing for dolls and toys, but loved animals dearly.  Is it any wonder,
then, that she took them for her subject when she began to paint?

In her childhood she had two dogs and a goat for pets, and later on kept a sheep in her Parisian
apartment.  Still later, when she had become a distinguished woman, her studio included a farmyard.

Her animal paintings are so real and life-like that a study of the faces of all the horses
in that wonderful picture, "The Horse Fair," will reveal distinctly different expressions in
each face.

Although most simple in her personal habits and in her life, Rosa Bonheur was the greatest
woman artist that ever lived.

"The Horse Fair," Rosa Bonheur's most famous painting, was bought by an American gentleman
and presented by him to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York.

LESSON XII

ALEXANDER AND THE ROBBER

Alexander--What! art thou that Thracian robber, of whose exploits I have heard so much?

Robber--I am a Thracian, and a soldier.

Alexander--A soldier!--a thief, a plunderer, an assassin, the pest of the country; but I must
detest and punish thy crimes.

Robber--What have I done of which you can complain?

Alexander--Speak freely.  Far be it from me to take advantage of my power, to silence those
with whom I deign to converse.

Robber--I must, then, answer your question by another.  How have you passed your life?

Alexander--Still, what are you but a robber,--a base, dishonest robber?

Robber--And what is a conqueror?  Have not you too gone about the earth like an evil genius,
plundering, killing without law, without justice, merely to gratify your thirst for dominion?
What I have done in a single province with a hundred followers, you have done to whole nations
with a hundred thousand.  What; then, is the difference, but that you were born a king, and
I a private man; you have been able to become a mightier robber than I.

Alexander--But if I have taken like a king, I have given like a king. If I have overthrown
empires, I have founded greater.  I have cherished arts, commerce, and philosophy.

Robber--I too have freely given to the poor what I took from the rich.  I know, indeed, very
little of the philosophy you speak of, but I believe neither you nor I shall ever atone to
the world for the mischief we have done it.

Alexander--Leave me.  Take off his chains, and use him well.  Are we, then, so much alike?
Alexander like a robber?  Let me reflect.  Here they warred; and when the strife was over,
here curled the smoke of peace.

All this has passed away.  Four hundred years have changed the face of this great continent,
and this peculiar race has been well-nigh blotted out.  Art has taken the place of simple nature,
and civilization has been too strong for the savage tribes of the red man.

Here and there a few Indians remain; but these are merely the degraded offspring of this once
noble race of men.

  James Montgomery.

LESSON XXIX

THE SUN

How far away from us is the sun?  Are we to answer just as we think, or just as we know?  On
a fine summer day, when we can see him clearly, it looks as if a short trip in a balloon might
take us to his throne in the sky, yet we know--because the astronomers tell us so--that he
is more than ninety-one millions of miles distant from our earth.

Ninety-one millions of miles!  It is not easy even to imagine this distance; but let us fancy
ourselves in an express-train going sixty miles an hour without making a single stop.  At that
flying rate we could travel from the earth to the sun in one hundred and seventy-one years,--that
is, if we had a road to run on and time to spare for the journey.

Arriving at the palace of the sun, we might then have some idea of his size.  A learned Greek
who lived more than two thousand years ago thought the sun about as large as the Peloponnesus;
if he had lived in our country, he might have said, "About as large as Massachusetts."

As large as their peninsula!  The other Greeks laughed at him for believing that the shining
ball was so vast.  How astonished they would have been--yes, and the wise man too--if they
had been told that the brilliant lord of the day was more than a million times as large as
the whole world!

LESSON XXX

IVORY

How many articles are made of ivory!  Here is a polished knife-handle, and there a strangely-carved
paper-cutter.  In the same shop may be found albums and prayer-books with ivory covers; and,
not far away, penholders, curious toys, and parasol-handles, all made of the glossy white material.

Where ivory is abundant, chairs of state, and even thrones are made of it; and in Russia, in
the palaces of the great, floors inlaid with ivory help to beautify the grand apartments. 
One African sultan has a whole fence of elephants' tusks around his royal residence; the residence
itself is straw-roofed and barbarous enough, both in design and in structure.  Yet imagine
that ivory fence!

The elephants slain in Africa and India in the course of a year could not furnish half the
ivory used in the great markets of the world during that time.  Vienna, Paris, London and St.
Petersburg keep the elephant-hunters busy, yet it is impossible for them to satisfy all the
demands made upon them, and the ivory-diggers must be called upon to add to the supply.

Every spring, when the ice begins to thaw, new mines or deposits of fossil ivory--a perfect
treasure of mammoths' tusks--are discovered in the marsh-lands of Eastern Siberia.  There are
no mammoths now--unless we call elephants by that name; yet their remains have been found upon
both continents.  In the year 1799, the perfect skeleton of one of these animals was found
in an ice-bank near the mouth of a Siberian river.  As the vast ice-field thawed, the remains
of the huge animal came to light.

The traders who search for mammoths' tusks around the Arctic coasts of
Asia make every effort to send off, each year, at least fifty thousand
pounds of fossil ivory to the west along the great caravan road.  So
great is the demand, however, that this quantity, added to that sent by
the elephant-hunters, is not large enough to make ivory cheap in trade
or in manufacture.
  'Twas my forefather's hand
    That placed it near his cot:
  There, woodman, let it stand;
    Thy ax shall harm it not.

  That old familiar tree,
    Whose glory and renown
  Are spread o'er land and sea,--
    And wouldst thou hew it down?
  Woodman, forbear thy stroke!
    Cut not its earthbound ties!
  Oh, spare that aged oak,
    Now towering to the skies!

  When but an idle boy
    I sought its grateful shade;
  In all their gushing joy,
    Here, too, my sisters played.
  My mother kissed me here,
    My father pressed my hand:
  Forgive this foolish tear,
    But let that old oak stand.

  My heart-strings round thee cling,
    Close as thy bark, old friend;
  Here shall the wild bird sing,
    And still thy branches bend.
  Old tree, the storm still brave!
    And, woodman, leave the spot!
  While I've a hand to save,
    Thy ax shall harm it not.

  George P. Morris.

LESSON XXXI

FLOWERS

He who cannot appreciate floral beauty is to be pitied, like any other man who is born imperfect.
It is a misfortune not unlike blindness. But men who reject flowers as effeminate and unworthy
of manhood reveal a positive coarseness.

Many persons lose all enjoyment of many flowers by indulging false associations.  There are
some who think that no weed can be of interest as a flower.  But all flowers are weeds where
they grow wild and in abundance; and somewhere our rarest flowers are somebody's commonest.

And generally there is a disposition to undervalue common flowers. There are few that will
trouble themselves to examine minutely a blossom that they have often seen and neglected; and
yet if they would question such flowers and commune with them, they would often be surprised
to find extreme beauty where it had long been overlooked.

It is not impertinent to offer flowers to a stranger.  The poorest child can proffer them to
the richest.  A hundred persons turned into a meadow full of flowers would be drawn together
in a transient brotherhood.

It is affecting to see how serviceable flowers often are to the necessities of the poor.  If
they bring their little floral gift to you, it cannot but touch your heart to think that their
grateful affection longed to express itself as much as yours.

You have books, or gems, or services that you can render as you will. The poor can give but
little and can do but little.  Were it not for flowers, they would be shut out from those exquisite
pleasures which spring from such gifts.  I never take one from a child, or from the poor, without
thanking God, in their behalf, for flowers.

R. W. Emerson.

LESSON XVIII

BEHAVIOR

There is always a best way of doing everything, if it be to open a book.  Manners are the happy
ways of doing things.  They form at last a rich varnish, with which the routine of life is
washed, and its details adorned.  Manners are very communicable; men catch them from each other.

The power of manners is incessant,--an element as unconcealable as fire.  The nobility cannot
in any country be disguised, and no more in a republic or a democracy than in a kingdom.  No
man can resist their influence.  There are certain manners which are learned in good society,
and if a person have them, he or she must be considered, and is everywhere welcome, though
without beauty, or wealth, or genius. Give a boy address and accomplishments, and you give
him the mastery of palaces and fortune wherever he goes.

Bad behavior the laws cannot reach.  Society is infested with rude, restless, and frivolous
persons who prey upon the rest.  Bad manners are social inflictions which the magistrate cannot
cure or defend you from, and which must be intrusted to the restraining force of custom. Familiar
rules of behavior should be impressed on young people in their school-days.

LESSON XIX

ESSENCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES

1. Congress must meet at least once a year.

(Congress consists of the Senate and the House of Representatives.)

2. One State cannot undo the acts of another.

3. Congress may admit any number of new States.

4. One State must respect the laws and legal decisions of another.

5. Every citizen is guaranteed a speedy trial by jury.

6. Congress cannot pass a law to punish a crime already committed.

7. Bills of revenue can originate only in the House of Representatives.

8. A person committing a crime in one State cannot find refuge in another.

9. The Constitution forbids excessive bail or cruel punishment.

10. Treaties with foreign countries are made by the President and ratified by the Senate.

11. Writing alone does not constitute treason against the United States.  There must be an
overt act.

12. An Act of Congress cannot become law over the vote of the President except by a two-thirds
vote of both Houses.

13. The Territories each send one delegate to Congress, who has the right to debate, but not
the right to vote.

14. An officer of the Government cannot accept any title of nobility, order or gift without
the permission of Congress.

15. Only a natural-born citizen of the United States can become President or Vice-President
of the United States.

SELECTION VIII

THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER

1.

2.

3.

4.

   Francis Scott Key.

USEFUL INFORMATION

To obtain a good knowledge of pronunciation, it is advisable for the reader to listen to the
examples given by educated persons.  We learn the pronunciation of words, to a great extent,
by imitation.  It must never be forgotten, however, that the dictionary alone can give us absolute
certainty in doubtful cases.

"If the riches of the Indies," says Fenelon, "or the crowns of all the kingdoms of the world,
were laid at my feet in exchange for my love for reading, I would despise them all."

That writer does the most good who gives his reader the greatest amount of knowledge and takes
from him the least time.  A tremendous thought may be packed into a small compass, and as solid
as a cannon ball.

"Read much, but not many works," is the advice of a great writer.

LESSON XX

THE ART OF OBSERVATION

The Indian trapper is a man of close observation, quick perception and prompt action.  As he
goes along, nothing escapes him.  Often not another step is taken until some mystery that presents
itself is fairly solved.  He will stand for hours in succession to account for certain signs,
and he may even spend days and weeks upon that same mystery until he solves it.

I rode once several hundred miles in the company of such an experienced trailer, and asked
him many questions about his art.  Near the bank of a small river in Dakota we crossed the
track of a pony.  The guide followed the track for some distance and then said: "It is a stray
black horse, with a long bushy tail, nearly starved to death; it has a broken hoof on the left
fore foot and goes very lame; he has passed here early this morning."

I could scarcely believe what was said, and asked for an explanation. The trailer replied:
"It is a stray horse, because he did not go in a straight line; his tail is long, for he dragged
it over the ground; in brushing against a bush he left some of his black hair; he is very hungry,
because he nipped at the dry weeds which horses seldom eat; the break of his left fore foot
can be seen in its track, and the slight impression of the one foot shows that he is lame.
The tracks are as yet fresh, and that shows that he passed only this morning, when the earth
was soft."

In this manner the whole story was accounted for, and late in the afternoon we really did come
across a riderless horse of that description wandering aimlessly in the prairies.

SELECTION IX

  THE SWORD OF BUNKER HILL

  He lay upon his dying bed,
    His eye was growing dim,
  When, with a feeble voice, he called
    His weeping son to him:
  "Weep not, my boy," the veteran said,
    "I bow to Heaven's high will;
  But quickly from yon antlers bring
    The sword of Bunker Hill."

  The sword was brought; the soldier's eye
    Lit with a sudden flame;
  And, as he grasped the ancient blade,
    He murmured Warren's name;
  Then said: "My boy, I leave you gold,
    But what is richer still,
  I leave you,--mark me, mark me, now,--
    The sword of Bunker Hill.

  "'Twas on that dread immortal day,
    I dared the Britons' band;
  A captain raised his blade on me,
    I tore it from his hand;
  And while the glorious battle raged,
    It lightened Freedom's will;
  For, boy, the God of Freedom blessed
    The sword of Bunker Hill.

  "Oh, keep this sword,"--his accents broke,--
    A smile--and he was dead;
  But his wrinkled hand still grasped the blade,
    Upon the dying bed.
  The son remains, the sword remains,
    Its glory growing still,
  And eighty millions bless the sire
    And sword of Bunker Hill.

  William R. Wallace.

The battle of Bunker Hill was fought on the 17th of June, 1775, in Charlestown, Massachusetts.
The Americans, after having twice repulsed double their number of the English, were compelled
to retreat for want of ammunition.  This was the first actual battle of the Revolutionary War.

NOTE:--Joseph Warren, a distinguished American general and patriot, born in Massachusetts in
1741, graduated at Harvard College in 1759. He was killed at the battle of Bunker Hill in 1775.

LESSON XXI

LETTERS

Notes of Invitation.

FORMAL NOTE.

March 8, 1909.

Mr. Joseph H. Curtis:--

The pupils of Class A, Public School No. -- most cordially invite Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Curtis
to attend the Closing Exercises to be held in the school on Thursday evening, March eleventh,
at eight o'clock.

INFORMAL NOTE.

February 2, 1909.

My dear Mr. Curtis:--

May we have the pleasure of your company at dinner Tuesday evening, February ninth, at seven
o'clock?

Sincerely yours,

CHARLES STORY.

406 Elm Street.

INFORMAL REPLY TO ABOVE INVITATION.

February 4, 1909.

My dear Mr. Story:--

I thank you for your kind invitation to dine with you Tuesday evening, but a previous business
engagement makes it impossible for me to be present.  I am very sorry.

Cordially yours,

HENRY CURTIS.

215 Cedar Street.

FORMAL NOTE.

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Baldwin request the pleasure of the company of Mr. and Mrs. Henry S.
Gray on Thursday evening, March fourth, at eight o'clock.

315 Madison Avenue.

FORMAL REPLY TO ABOVE INVITATION.

Mr. Henry S. Gray regrets that he is unable to accept the invitation of Mr. and Mrs. George
H. Baldwin for Thursday evening, at eight o'clock.

506 Myrtle Avenue.

INFORMAL LETTER.

ROCHESTER, N. Y., March 1, 1909.

My dear Friend:--

I arrived here yesterday afternoon in the best of spirits.  I am staying here at a nice, quiet
hotel, and expect to remain here for the next few days.  Rochester is so different from the
great Metropolis. This morning I went to see the University and some other public buildings.
I am delighted with my trip.  From here I intend to proceed to Buffalo and to Niagara Falls.
From there I shall write you a much longer letter.

Please give my kindest regards to all the family.

Cordially yours,

HENRY FIELD.

LESSON XXII

REAPING AND MOWING MACHINES

The rapid settlement and improvement of many parts of our country have been greatly aided by
the invention of various kinds of machinery.  The work of many hands can now be done by one
machine, and thus a great saving of human labor is effected.

In former times, the crops of wheat and oats, rye and barley, were gathered with a sickle;
the grain was thrashed with a flail; the grass in the meadows was cut with a scythe.  But,
now, all this is changed; on the great prairies of the West, the wheat, rye and oats are cut
by the reaper, and with a steady hum the thrashing-machine does its work of cleaning the grain.

The scythe has given place to the mowing machine, and the sickle and flail have been laid away
as relics of other times.  Thus the machinery invented by the genius and skill of man, not
only lightens the labor of the farmer, but it performs the work which formerly required the
united effort of many men.  Many foreign countries send to the United States for mowers and
reapers, because it is here these machines have reached their highest perfection.

LESSON XXIII

ALI BABA

Ali Baba was a poor Persian wood carrier, who accidentally learned the magic words "Open Sesame,"
"Shut Sesame," by which he gained entrance into a vast cavern, in which forty thieves had stored
their stolen treasures.  He made himself rich by plundering these stores of wealth, and through
the cunning of Morgiana, his female slave, Ali Baba succeeded in destroying the whole band
of thieves.  He then gave Morgiana her freedom and married her to his own son.

LESSON XXIV

BIRDS

In the United States there are a great many birds.  Many of them live in the woods; others
are found in the fields.  Some are seen in the gardens, and a few are kept in our houses. 
The eagle builds her nest upon the highest rock, while the wren forms her snug and tiny nest
in the way-side hedge.  The swallow plasters her nest upon the gable of the house or under
the eaves of the barn.  Out in the wheat-field we hear the whistle of the quail.  The noise
of the ducks and geese comes to us from the pond.  The birds of prey dart downward through
the air. Everywhere we find the birds.

In autumn the migratory birds leave us, but they return in the spring. Even in March we hear
the call of the robin.  At the same time the bold and saucy blue-jay pays us his first visit.
One hears the sweet songs of the birds from May until October.  Some of them remain with us
during the winter.

There are many things that birds can do.  The swallows fly with the greatest ease.  The ostrich
runs rapidly.  Swimming birds dive with much skill.  The owl moves noiselessly through the
night air.  Birds of prey search out their victims with keen vision.

Nearly all birds build skillfully made nests with their bills and feet. Some make them out
of straw, and the little birds usually line them with wool.  The large birds of prey build
theirs from small sticks and twigs.  For the most part they hatch the eggs with the warmth
of the body.  Many birds are highly valued on account of their eggs, while others are prized
for their flesh and feathers.  Still others charm us with their songs.

LESSON XXV

SLEEP

Of all the wonderful things about us, sleep is one of the most wonderful.  How it comes, why
it comes, how it does its kind, helpful work, not even the wisest people are able to tell.
We do not have much trouble in seeking it, it comes to us of itself.  It takes us in its kindly
arms, quiets and comforts us, repairs and refreshes us, and turns us out in the morning quite
like new people.

Sleep is necessary to life and health.  We crave it as urgently as we do food or drink.  In
our waking hours, rest is obtained only at short intervals; the muscles, the nerves, and the
brain are in full activity. Repair goes on every moment, whether we are awake or asleep; but
during the waking hours the waste of the tissues is far ahead of the repair, while during sleep
the repair exceeds the waste.  Hence a need of rest which at regular intervals causes all parts
of the bodily machinery to be run at their lowest rate.  In other words, we are put to sleep.

Sleep is more or less sound, according to circumstances.  Fatigue, if not too great, aids it;
idleness lessens it.  Anxious thought, and pain, and even anticipated pleasure, may keep us
awake.  Hence we should not go to bed with the brain excited or too active.  We should read
some pleasant book, laugh, talk, sing, or take a brisk walk, or otherwise rest the brain for
half an hour before going to bed.

The best time for sleep is during the silence and darkness of night. People who have to work
nights, and to sleep during the day, have a strained and wearied look.

The amount of sleep needed depends upon the temperament of each individual.  Some require little
sleep, while others need a great deal.

Eight hours of sleep for an adult, and from ten to twelve hours for children and old people
is about the average amount required.

Some of the greatest men in history are known to have been light sleepers.  Most of the world's
great workers took a goodly amount of sleep, however.  Sir Walter Scott, the great writer,
took eight hours of sleep, and so did the famous philosopher Emanuel Kant.  Children need more
sleep than grown people.  They should retire early and sleep until they awake in the morning.

When fairly awake we should get up.  Dozing is unhealthful, especially for young people.

LESSON XXVI

CURIOUS BIRDS' NESTS

Among the most curious nests are those made by the birds called weavers.  These feathered workmen
serve no apprenticeship; their trade comes to them by nature; and how well they work at it!
But then you must admit that Nature is a skillful teacher and birds are apt scholars.

The Baltimore oriole is a weaver, and it makes its nest out of bark, fine grass, moss, and
wool, strengthening it, when circumstances permit, with pieces of string or horse-hair.  This
nest, pouch-shaped, and open at the top, is fastened to the branch of a tree, and sometimes
is interwoven with the twigs of a waving bough.  The threads of grass and long fibers of moss
are woven together, in and out, as if by machinery; and it seems hard to believe that the little
birds can do such work without help.

The tailor-bird of India makes a still more curious nest: it actually sews, using its long,
slender bill as a needle.  Birds that fly, birds that run, birds that swim, and birds that
sing are by no means rare; but birds that sew, seem like the wonderful birds in the fairy-tales.
Yet they really exist, and make their odd nests with great care and skill.  They pick out a
leaf large enough for their nest, and pierce rows of holes along the edges with their sharp
bill; then, with the fibers of a plant or long threads of grass, they sew the leaf up into
a bag.  Sometimes it is necessary to sew two leaves together, that the space within may be
large enough.

This kind of sewing resembles shoemakers' or saddlers' work; but, the leaf being like fine
cloth and not like leather, perhaps the name "tailor-bird" is the most appropriate for the
little worker.  The bag is lined with soft, downy material, and in this the tiny eggs are laid--tiny
indeed, for the tailor-bird is no larger than the hummingbird.  The weight of the little creature
does not even draw down the nest, and the leaf in which the eggs or young birds are hidden
looks like the other leaves on the trees; so that there is nothing to attract the attention
of the forest robbers.

Another bird, called the Indian sparrow, makes her nest of grass-woven cloth and shaped like
a bottle.  The neck of the bottle hangs downward, and the bird enters from below.  This structure,
swinging from a high tree, over a river, is safe from the visits of mischievous animals.

Is it any wonder, then, that birds and their nests have always been a source of delight to
thinking man?

With no tools but their tiny feet and sharp little bills, these feathered songsters build their
habitat, more cunningly and artfully than any artisan could hope to do even after a long apprenticeship.

SELECTION X

THE HUNTERS

  In the bright October morning
    Savoy's Duke had left his bride.
  From the Castle, past the drawbridge,
    Flowed the hunters' merry tide.

  Steeds are neighing, gallants glittering
    Gay, her smiling lord to greet,
  From her splendid chamber casement
    Smiles the Duchess Marguerite.

  From Vienna by the Danube
    Here she came, a bride, in spring,
  Now the autumn crisps the forest;
    Hunters gather, bugles ring.

  Hark! the game's on foot; they scatter;
    Down the forest riding lone,
  Furious, single horsemen gallop.
    Hark! a shout--a crash--a groan!

  Pale and breathless, came the hunters;
    On the turf, dead lies the boar,
  But the Duke lies stretched beside him,
    Senseless, weltering in his gore.

  In the dull October evening,
    Down the leaf-strewn forest road,
  To the Castle, past the drawbridge,
    Came the hunters with their load.

  In the hall, with torches blazing,
    Ladies waiting round her seat,
  Clothed in smiles, beneath the dais
    Sat the Duchess Marguerite.

  Hark!  below the gates unbarring,
    Tramp of men and quick commands.
  "'Tis my lord come back from hunting,"
    And the Duchess claps her hands.

  Slow and tired, came the hunters;
    Stopped in darkness in the court.--
  "Ho! this way, ye laggard hunters.
    To the hall!  What sport, what sport?"

  Slow they entered with their Master;
    In the hall they laid him down;
  On his coat were leaves and blood-stains,
    On his brow an angry frown.

  Dead her princely, youthful husband
    Lay before his youthful wife;
  Bloody 'neath the flaring torches:
    And the sight froze all her life.

  In Vienna by the Danube
    Kings hold revel, gallants meet;
  Gay of old amid the gayest
    Was the Duchess Marguerite.

  In Vienna by the Danube
    Feast and dance her youth beguiled.
  Till that hour she never sorrowed;
    But from then she never smiled.

  Matthew Arnold.

WISE SAYINGS

A room hung with pictures is a room hung with thoughts.

  A fig for your bill of fare.
  Show me your bill of company.

Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair.

No evil can befall a good man, either in life or death.

It is well to think well; it is divine to act well.

They are never alone who are accompanied with noble, true thoughts.

We find in life exactly what we put into it.

Too much rest is rust.

Order is heaven's first law.

The difference between one boy and another is not so much in talent as in energy.

But bear in mind this: there may be success in life without success in business.  The merchant
who failed, but who afterward recovered his fortune, and then spent it in paying his creditors
their demands in full, principal and interest, thus leaving himself a poor man, had a glorious
success: while he who failed, paid his creditors ten cents only on a dollar, and afterward
rode in his carriage and occupied a magnificent mansion, was sorrowfully looked on by angels
and by honest men as lamentably unsuccessful.

True success in life is success in building up a pure, honest, energetic character--in so shaping
our habits, our thoughts, and our aspirations as to best qualify us for a higher life.

LESSON XXVIII

  ABBREVIATIONS OF NAMES OF STATES

  Ala.      Alabama,               Mont.     Montana,
  Alaska.   Alaska,                Nebr.     Nebraska,
  Ariz.     Arizona,               Nev.      Nevada,
  Ark.      Arkansas (sa),         N. H.     New Hampshire,
  Cal.      California,            N. J.     New Jersey,
  Colo.     Colorado,              N. Mex.   New Mexico,
  Conn.     Connecticut,           N. Y.     New York,
  Del.      Delaware,              N. C.     North Carolina,
  Fla.      Florida,               N. Dak.   North Dakota,
  Ga.       Georgia,               O.        Ohio,
  Idaho.    Idaho,                 Okla.     Oklahoma,
  Ill.      Illinois (noi),        Ore.      Oregon,
  Ind.      Indiana,               Pa.       Pennsylvania,
  Ind. T.   Indian Ter.,           R. I.     Rhode Island,
  Ia.       Iowa,                  S. C.     South Carolina,
  Kans.     Kansas,                S. Dak.   South Dakota,
  Ky.       Kentucky,              Tenn.     Tennessee,
  La.       Louisiana,             Tex.      Texas,
  Me.       Maine,                 Utah.     Utah,
  Md.       Maryland (mer)         Vt.       Vermont,
  Mass.     Massachusetts          Va.       Virginia,
  Mich.     Michigan,              Wash.     Washington,
  Minn.     Minnesota,             W. Va.    West Virginia,
  Miss.     Mississippi,           Wis.      Wisconsin,
  Mo.       Missouri,              Wyo.      Wyoming.

*The words Utah, Idaho and Alaska are not abbreviated.

LESSON XXXII

THE MOSQUITO

Mosquitoes are found in many parts of the world where there are pools of water.  They swarm
along the rivers of the sunny south and by the lakes of the far north.  The life of one of
these troublesome little fellows is well worth some attention.

Did you ever hear about the little boats that they build?  They lay their eggs on the water,
in which the sun's warmth hatches them out. The insect leaves the water a full-fledged mosquito
ready to annoy man and beast with its sting.

The eyes of this insect are remarkable.  They are so large that they cover the larger part
of the head.  Its feelers are very delicate, and look as if they were made of the finest feathers.
Its wings are very pretty, and with them it makes a humming noise.

The organ, which the female mosquito alone employs on her victims, is called a trunk, or proboscis.
This trunk is a tube, inside of which is a bundle of stings with very sharp points.  When she
settles on your face or hands, she pierces the skin, extracts some blood, and at the same time
injects a little poison; this produces the feeling which proves so annoying.

LESSON XXXIII

SELF-RELIANCE

Of all the elements of success none is more vital than self-reliance,--a determination to be
one's own helper, and not to look to others for support.  It is the secret of all individual
growth and vigor, the master-key that unlocks all difficulties in every profession or calling.
"Help yourself, and Heaven will help you," should be the motto of every man who would make
himself useful in the world.  He who begins with crutches will generally end with crutches.
Help from within always strengthens, but help from without invariably enfeebles.

It is said that a lobster, when left high and dry among the rocks, has not instinct and energy
enough to work his way back to the sea, but waits for the sea to come to him.  If it does not
come, he remains where he is and dies, although the slightest effort would enable him to reach
the waves.  The world is full of human lobsters,--men stranded on the rocks of business, who,
instead of putting forth their energy, are waiting for some grand billow of good fortune to
set them afloat.

There are many young men, who, instead of carrying their own burdens, are always dreaming of
some Hercules, in the shape of a rich uncle, or some other benevolent relative, coming to give
them a "lift."  In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, pecuniary help to a beginner is not
a blessing, but a calamity.  Under the appearance of aiding, it weakens its victims, and keeps
them in perpetual slavery and degradation.

Let every young man have faith in himself, and take an earnest hold of life, scorning all props
and buttresses, all crutches and life-preservers.  Instead of wielding the rusted swords of
valorous forefathers, let him forge his own weapons; and, mindful of the Providence over him,
let him fight his own battles with his own good lance.

SELECTION XIII

PRAYER IN BATTLE

      Father, I call to Thee.
  Roaring enshrouds me, the din of the battle,
  Round me like lightning the leaping shots rattle.
    Leader of battles, I call to Thee.
      Father, Thou lead me.

      Father, Thou lead me.
  Lead me to victory, lead me to death;
  Lord, at Thy pleasure I offer my breath.
    Lord, as Thou wilt, so lead me.
      God, I acknowledge Thee.

      God, I acknowledge Thee.
  So when the thunders of battle are breaking,
  As when the leaves of the autumn are shaking,
    Fountain of grace, I acknowledge Thee.
      Father, Thou bless me.

      Father, Thou bless me.
  Into Thine hand I my being resign;
  Thou didst bestow it--to take it be Thine.
    Living and dying, O bless me.
      Father, I honor Thee.

      Father, I honor Thee.
  Not for earth's riches unsheath we the sword;
  'Tis our hearts we protect; 'tis Thy temples, O Lord;
    So railing or conquering, I honor Thee.
      To Thee, God, I yield me.

      To thee, God, I yield me.
  Round me when death's fiery tempest is rushing,
  When from my veins the red currents are gushing,
    To Thee, O my God, do I yield me.
      Father, I call to Thee.

  Theo. Körner.

LESSON XXXIV

FRANKLIN'S TOAST

Long after Washington's judicious and intrepid conduct in respect to the French and English
had made his name familiar to all Europe, Dr. Franklin chanced to dine with the English and
French ambassadors, when the following toasts were given:--

The British ambassador, rising, said: "England,--the sun whose bright beams enlighten and fertilize
the remotest corners of the earth."

The French ambassador, glowing with national pride, but too polite to dispute the previous
toast, said: "France,--the moon whose mild, steady, and cheering rays are the delight of all
nations, consoling them in darkness, and making their dreariness beautiful."

Dr. Franklin then arose, and, with his usual dignified simplicity, said: "George Washington,--the
Joshua who commanded the sun and moon to stand still, and they obeyed him."

LESSON XXXV

HUMANITY REWARDED

Joseph the Second, Emperor of Germany, once received a petition in favor of a poor old officer,
with a family of ten children, who was reduced to the utmost poverty.

After making inquiries respecting the man, and satisfying himself of his worth, the Emperor
determined to judge of his necessities by personal observation.

Accordingly he went alone to the house of the officer, whom he found seated at table, with
eleven children around him, dining upon vegetables of his own planting.

The Emperor, who was disguised as a private citizen, after some general conversation with the
officer, said: "I heard you had ten children, but I see here eleven."

"This," replied the officer, pointing to one, "is a poor orphan, whom I found at my door. 
I have endeavored to obtain for him the assistance of persons who could better afford to provide
for him, but have not been able to succeed; and of course, I could do no better than share
my little portion with him."

The Emperor, admiring the generous humanity of the poor man, immediately made himself known
to him, and said, "I desire that all these children may be my pensioners, and that you will
continue to give them examples of virtue and honor.

"I grant you one hundred florins per annum. for each, and also, an addition of two hundred
florins to your pension.  Go tomorrow to my treasurer, where you will receive the first quarter's
payment, together with a lieutenant's commission for your eldest son.  Henceforth I will be
the father of all the family."

LESSON XXXVI

WORK PROCLAIMS A WORKMAN

A certain baron had an only son, who was not only a comfort to his father, but a blessing to
all who lived on his father's land.  Once, when the young man was away from home, a gentleman
called to see his father, and using the name of God irreverently, the good old baron reproved him.

"Are you not afraid," said he, "of offending the great Being who reigns above, by thus using
His name in vain?"  The gentleman said he neither feared nor believed in a being he could not see.

The next morning the baron showed the gentleman a beautiful painting that adorned his hall.
The gentleman admired the picture very much, and, when told by the baron that his son painted
it, said: "Your son is an excellent painter."

The baron then took his visitor into the garden, and showed him many beautiful flowers, arranged
in the most perfect order.  "Who has the direction of this garden?" said the gentleman.  "My
son," said the baron.  "Indeed," said the gentleman; "I begin to think he is something uncommon."

The baron then took him into the village, and showed him a small, neat cottage, where his son
had established a school, in which a hundred orphans were fed and taught at his expense.  "What
a happy man you are," said the gentleman, "to have so good a son!"

"How do you know that I have so good a son?" replied the baron. "Because I have seen his works,"
said the gentleman, "and I know he must be talented and good."  "But you have never seen him,"
said the baron.  "I have seen what he has done, and am disposed to love him, without having
seen him," said the gentleman.

"Can you see anything from that window?" asked the baron.  "The landscape is beautiful," said
the gentleman; "the golden sun, the mighty river, the vast forest, are admirable.  How lovely,
and pleasant and cheerful, every object appears!"

"How happens it," said the baron, "that you could see such proof of my son's existence, in
the imperfect work of his hands, and yet you can see no proof of the existence of a Creator,
in the wonders and beauties which are now before you?  Let me never hear you say again that
you believe not in the existence of God, unless you would have me think that you have lost
the use of your reason."

LESSON XXXVII

REPUBLICS

The name Republic is written upon the oldest monuments of mankind.  It has been connected in
all ages with the noble and the great in art and letters.

It might be asked, what land has ever felt the influence of liberty, that has not flourished
like the spring?  With regard to ourselves, we can truly say that we live under a form of government
the equal of which the world has never seen.  Is it, then, nothing to be free?  How many nations
in the history of the world have proved themselves worthy of being so?

Were all men as enlightened, as brave and as self-respecting as they ought to be, would they
suffer themselves to be insulted by any other form of government than a republic?  Can anything
be more striking or more sublime, than the idea of a republic like ours; which spreads over
a territory far more extensive than that of the ancient Roman empire?

And upon what is this great and glorious combination of states, so admirably united, really
founded?  It is founded upon the maxims of common sense and reason, without military despotism
or monarchical domination of any kind.  The people simply govern themselves, and the government
is of the people, by the people and for the people.

FREEDOM OF THOUGHT

We must have an end of all persecution of ideas.

I condemn the government of France and Prussia when they oppress the Jesuits.

I condemn the government of Russia when it oppresses the Jews.

I affirm that to persecute ideas is like persecuting light, air, electricity, or the magnetic
fluid.

Ideas escape all persecution.  When repressed they explode like powder.

LESSON XXXVIII

FALSE NOTIONS OF LIBERTY

People talk of liberty as if it meant the liberty of doing what a man likes.  The only liberty
that a man should ask for is the privilege of removing all restrictions that prevent his doing
what he ought to do.

I call that man free who is able to rule himself.  I call him free who has his flesh in subjection
to his spirit; who fears doing wrong, but who fears nothing else.

I call that man free who has learned that liberty consists in obedience to the power and to
the will and to the law that his higher soul approves.  He is not free because he does what
he likes, but he is free because he does what he ought.

Some people think there is no liberty in obedience.  I tell you there is no liberty except
in loyal obedience.  Did you ever see a mother kept at home, a kind of prisoner, by her sick
child, obeying its every wish and caprice?  Will you call that mother a slave?  Or is this
obedience the obedience of slavery?  I call it the obedience of the highest liberty--the liberty
of love.

We hear in these days a great deal respecting rights: the rights of private judgment, the rights
of labor, the rights, of property, and the rights of man.

I cannot see anything manly in the struggle between rich and poor; the one striving to take
as much, and the other to keep as much, as he can. The cry of "My rights, your duties," we
should change to something nobler.  If we can say "My duties, your rights," we shall learn
what real liberty is.

LESSON XXXIX

THE VOICE

A good voice has a charm in speech as in song.  The voice, like the face, betrays the nature
and disposition, and soon indicates what is the range of the speaker's mind.

Many people have no ear for music; but everyone has an ear for skillful reading.  Every one
of us has at some time been the victim of a cunning voice, and perhaps been repelled once for
all by a harsh, mechanical speaker.

The voice, indeed, is a delicate index of the state of mind.

What character, what infinite variety, belongs to the voice!  Sometimes it is a flute, sometimes
a trip-hammer; what a range of force!  In moments of clearer thought or deeper sympathy, the
voice will attain a music and penetration which surprise the speaker as much as the hearer.

LESSON XL

THE INTREPID YOUTH

It was a calm, sunny day in the year 1750; the scene a piece of forest land in the north of
Virginia, near a noble stream of water. Implements for surveying were lying about, and several
men composed a party engaged in laying out the wild lands of the country.

These persons had apparently just finished their dinner.  Apart from the group walked a young
man of a tall and compact frame.  He moved with the elastic tread of one accustomed to constant
exercise in the open air.  His countenance wore a look of decision and manliness not usually
found in one so young.

Suddenly there was a shriek, then another, and several in rapid succession.  The voice was
that of a woman, and seemed to proceed from the other side of a dense thicket.  At the first
scream, the youth turned his head in the direction of the sound.  When it was repeated, he
pushed aside the undergrowth and, quickening his footsteps, he soon dashed into an open space
on the bank of the stream, where stood a rude log cabin.

It was but the work of a moment for the young man to make his way through the crowd and confront
the woman.  The instant her eye fell on him, she exclaimed: "Oh, sir, you will do something
for me.  Make them release me, for the love of God.  My boy, my poor boy is drowning, and they
will not let me go."  "It would be madness; she will jump into the river," said one, "and the
rapids would dash her to pieces in a moment."

The youth scarcely waited for these words, for he recollected the child, a fine little boy
of four years old, who was a favorite with all who knew him.  He had been accustomed to play
in the little inclosure before the cabin, but the gate having been left open, he had stolen
out, reached the edge of the bank, and was in the act of looking over, when his mother saw him.

The shriek she uttered only hastened the catastrophe she feared; for the child lost its balance,
and fell into the stream.  Scream now followed scream in rapid succession, as the agonized
mother rushed to the bank.

One glance at the situation was enough.  To take off his coat and plunge in after the drowning
child were but the actions of a moment.

On went the youth and child; and it was miraculous how each escaped being dashed to pieces
against the rocks.  Twice the boy went out of sight, and a suppressed shriek escaped the mother's
lips; but twice he reappeared, and with great anxiety she followed his progress, as his tiny
form was hurried onward with the current.

The youth now appeared to redouble his exertions, for they were approaching the most dangerous
part of the river.  The rush of the waters at this spot was tremendous, and no one ventured
to approach, even in a canoe, lest he should be dashed in pieces.  What, then, would be the
youth's fate, unless he soon overtook the child?  He urged his way through the foaming current
with desperate strength.

Three times he was on the point of grasping the child, when the waters whirled the prize from
him.  The third effort was made above the fall; and when it failed, the mother groaned, fully
expecting the youth to give up his task.  But no; he only pressed forward the more eagerly.

And now, like an arrow from the bow, pursuer and pursued shot to the brink of the precipice.
An instant they hung there, distinctly visible amid the foaming waters.  Every brain grew dizzy
at the sight.  But a shout of exultation burst from the spectators, when they saw the boy held
aloft by the right arm of the young hero.  And thus he brought the child back to the distracted
mother.

With a most fervent blessing, she thanked the young man for his heroic deed.  And was this
blessing heard?  Most assuredly; for the self-sacrificing spirit which characterized the life
of this youth was none other than that of George Washington, the First President of the United
States.

LESSON XLI

AUTUMN

September has come.  The fierce heat of summer is gone.  Men are at work in the fields cutting
down the yellow grain, and binding it up into sheaves.  The fields of corn stand in thick ranks,
heavy with ears.

The boughs of the orchard hang low with the red and golden fruit. Laughing boys are picking
up the purple plums and the red-cheeked peaches that have fallen in the high grass.  Large,
rich melons are on the garden vines, and sweet grapes hang in clusters by the wall.

The larks with their black and yellow breasts stand watching you on the close-mown meadow.
As you come near, they spring up, fly a little distance, and light again.  The robins, that
long ago left the gardens, feed in flocks upon the red berries of the sumac, and the soft-eyed
pigeons are with them to claim their share.  The lazy blackbirds follow the cows and pick up
crickets and other insects.

At noon, the air is still, mild, and soft.  You see blue smoke off by the distant wood and
hills.  The brook is almost dry.  The water runs over the pebbles with a soft, low murmur.
The goldenrod is on the hill, the aster by the brook, and the sunflower in the garden.

The twitter of the birds is still heard.  The sheep graze upon the brown hillside.  The merry
whistle of the plowboy comes up from the field, and the cow lows in the distant pasture.

As the sun sinks in the October haze, the low, south wind creeps over the dry tree-tops, and
the leaves fall in showers upon the ground.  The sun sinks lower, and lower, and is gone; but
his bright beams still linger in the west.  Then the evening star is seen shining with a soft,
mellow light, and the moon rises slowly in the still and hazy air.

November comes.  The flowers are all dead.  The grass is pale and white.  The wind has blown
the dry leaves into heaps.  The timid rabbit treads softly on the dry leaves.  The crow calls
from the high tree-top.  The sound of dropping nuts is heard in the wood.  Children go out
morning and evening to gather nuts for the winter.  The busy little squirrels will be sure
to get their share.

SELECTION XIV

  THE RETORT

  One day, a rich man, flushed with pride and wine,
    Sitting with guests at table, all quite merry,
  Conceived it would be vastly fine
    To crack a joke upon his secretary.

  "Young man," said he, "by what art, craft, or trade
    Did your good father earn his livelihood?"
  "He was a saddler, sir," the young man said;
    "And in his line was always reckoned good."

  "A saddler, eh? and had you stuffed with Greek,
    Instead of teaching you like him to sew?
  And pray, sir, why did not your father make
    A saddler, too, of you?"
  At this each flatterer, as in duty bound,
    The joke applauded, and the laugh went round.

  At length the secretary, bowing low,
    Said (craving pardon if too free he made),
  "Sir, by your leave I fain would know
    Your father's trade."

  "My father's trade?  Why, sir, but that's too bad!
    My father's trade?  Why, blockhead, art thou mad?
  My, father, sir, was never brought so low:
    He was a gentleman, I'd have you know."

  "Indeed!  excuse the liberty I take;
    But if your story's true,
  How happened it your father did not make
    A gentleman of you?"

  G. P. Morris.

Let the accent of words be watched, and closely; let their meaning be watched more closely
still.  A few words, well chosen, will do the work that a thousand cannot do, when every one
of those few is acting properly, in the function of one another.

LESSON XLIII

HOW TO SELECT A BOY

A gentleman advertised for a boy, and nearly fifty applicants presented themselves to him.
When I talked to him I noticed that his clothes were brushed and his hair in order.  When he
wrote his name I noticed that his finger-nails were clean.

"Don't you call those things letters of recommendation?  I do; and I would give more for what
I can tell about a boy by using my eyes ten minutes than for all the letters he can bring me."

LESSON XLIV

SALT

Salt is an every-day article, so common that we rarely give it a thought; yet, like most common
things, it is useful enough to be ranked among the necessaries of life.  "I could not live
without salt," would sound to us exaggerated in the mouth of any one.  Have you ever fancied
that you could do without it?

How would meat taste without salt?  Would not much of our vegetable food be insipid, if we
neglected this common seasoning?  And even the "daily bread" demands its share.

Where is this salt found, that we prize so little, yet need so much? The sea furnishes some,
and salt-mines and salt-springs give the rest. Most of the salt used in this country is obtained
from the water of certain springs.  Among the richest of these springs are those at Salina,
now a part of the city of Syracuse, New York.  Forty gallons of water from these wells yield
one bushel of salt.

LESSON XLVI

RULES OF BEHAVIOR

Every action in company ought to be done with some sign of respect to those present.

In presence of others, sing not to yourself with a humming noise, nor drum with your fingers
or feet.

Turn not your back to others, especially in speaking; jog not the table or desk on which another
reads or writes; lean not on any one.

Be no flatterer; neither play with any one that delights not to be played with.

Read no letters, books, or papers, in company; but when there is a necessity for doing it,
you must ask leave.  Come not near the books or writings of any one so as to read them, unless
desired.

When another speaks, be attentive yourself, and disturb not the audience.  If any one hesitates
in his words, help him not, nor prompt him, without being desired; interrupt him not, nor answer
him till his speech is ended.

Be not curious to know the affairs of others, neither approach to those that speak in private.

Make no show of taking great delight in your victuals; feed not with greediness; lean not on
the table; neither find fault with what you eat.

Let your discourses with men of business be short.

Be not immoderate in urging your friend to discover a secret.

Speak not in an unknown tongue in company, but in your own language, and as those of quality
do, and not as the vulgar.

While Captain Brown was occupied in studying the construction of bridges, he was walking in
his garden one dewy morning, when he saw a tiny spider's-net suspended across his path.  The
idea occurred to him, that a bridge of iron ropes might be constructed in like manner, and
the result was the invention of his Suspension Bridge.

So trifling a matter as a straw may indicate which way the wind blows.

LESSON XLVIII

THE AFFECTION AND REVERENCE DUE A MOTHER

What an awful state of mind must a man have attained, when he can despise a mother's counsel!
Her name is identified with every idea that can subdue the sternest mind; that can suggest
the most profound respect, the deepest and most heartfelt attachment, the most unlimited obedience.
It brings to the mind the first human being that loved us, the first guardian that protected
us, the first friend that cherished us; who watched with anxious care over infant life, whilst
yet we were unconscious of our being; whose days and nights were rendered wearisome by her
anxious cares for our welfare; whose eager eye followed us through every path we took; who
gloried in our honor; who sickened in heart at our shame; who loved and mourned, when others
reviled and scorned; and whose affection for us survives the wreck of every other feeling within.
When her voice is raised to inculcate religion, or to reprehend irregularity, it possesses
unnumbered claims of attention, respect and obedience.  She fills the place of the eternal
God; by her lips that God is speaking; in her counsels He is conveying the most solemn admonitions;
and to disregard such counsel, to despise such interference, to sneer at the wisdom that addresses
you, or the aged piety that seeks to reform you, is the surest and the shortest path which
the devil himself could have opened for your perdition.  I know no grace that can have effect;
I know not any authority upon earth to which you will listen, when once you have brought yourself
to reject such advice.

USEFUL INFORMATION

The officials and clerks by whom the people's business in the administration of the government
is carried on, constitute the Civil Service.  About five thousand of these officials are appointed
by the President alone or with the consent of the Senate; about fifteen to twenty thousand
more are appointed under what is known as the "Civil-Service Rules," and the remainder of our
office-holders are appointed by heads of departments.

Competitive examinations for admission to the Civil Service are held at regular intervals by
a Board of Examiners in each of the principal cities of the United States.  Men and women receive
the same pay for the same work in government service.

The salary of the President of the United States is $75,000 a year. The Vice-president receives
$8,000; Cabinet officers, $8,000; Senators, $5,000 and mileage.  The Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court receives $10,500.  Ministers to foreign nations receive from $5,000 to $18,000 annually.
The amount varies with the importance of the post.

The total number of Indians in the United States is about 250,000, Alaska not included.  The
most numerous tribes are the Cherokee and Choctaw Indians.  The Apaches are the most savage.
About half of the Indian tribes are now partly civilized and are self-supporting.

WISE SAYINGS

The first business of a state is the education of its citizens.

Every child has a right to the best education.

The highest motive of school government is to give the child the power and necessary reason
to control himself.

We have no right to teach anything that does not go through the intellect and reach the heart.

Kindness is the golden chain by which society is bound together.

LESSON XLIX

WHEAT

Wheat was unknown in America till it was brought over by Europeans, but it is now grown to
an immense extent in the temperate regions of both North and South America.  Our country is
the greatest wheat granary in the world.  The production of this grain in the United States
is over five hundred millions of bushels a year.

The great "wheat belt" of the United States is in the Northwest,--in Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin,
Minnesota and the neighboring states. California also is a splendid country for this cereal,
and California's wheat crop is every year worth more than were ever her stores of gold.

People who live in cities and towns get their bread for the most part at the baker's; so that
in many families the good old art of bread-making is almost forgotten.  Then it must be said
that it is the exception rather than the rule when one finds really good home-made bread. 
This is a great pity.

Now, let me add one hint for the benefit of the girls.  In the English language there is no
nobler word than Lady.  But go back to its origin, and what do we find that it means?  We find
that it means She that looks after the loaf.

WISE SAYINGS

Shallow men believe in luck; strong men in pluck.

If there is honor among thieves, they stole it.

Have a time and place for everything, and do everything in its time and place.

You will never find time for anything.  If you want time, you must make it.

You will always find those men the most forward to do good, or to improve the times, who are
always busy.

Trifles make perfection, yet perfection is no trifle.

LESSON L

COUNTENANCE AND CHARACTER

We know men by their looks; we read men by looking at their faces--not at their features, their
eyes, their lips, because God made these; but a certain cast of motion, and shape and expression,
which their features have acquired.  It is this that we call the countenance.

And what makes this countenance?  The inward and mental habits; the constant pressure of the
mind; the perpetual repetition of its acts. You detect at once a conceited, or foolish person.
It is stamped on his countenance.  You can see on the faces of the cunning or dissembling,
certain corresponding lines, traced on the face as legibly as if they were written there.

As it is with the countenance, so it is with the character.  Character is the sum total of
all our actions.  It is the result of the habitual use we have been making of our intellect,
heart and will.  We are always at work, like the weaver at the loom.  So we are always forming
a character for ourselves.  It is a plain truth, that everybody grows up in a certain character;
some good, some bad, some excellent, and some unendurable.  Every character is formed by habits.
If a man is habitually proud, or vain, or false, he forms for himself a character like in kind.

The character shows itself outwardly, but it is wrought within.  Every habit is a chain of
acts, and every one of those acts was a free link of the will.  For instance, some people are
habitually false.  We sometimes meet with men whose word we can never take, and for this reason
they have lost the perception of truth and falsehood.  They do not know when they are speaking
the truth and when they are speaking falsely.  They bring this state upon themselves.  But
there was a time when these same men had never told a lie.

A good character is to be more highly prized than riches.

SELECTION XVI

THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET

1.

2.

3. How sweet from the green mossy brim to receive it,
     As poised on the curb it inclined to my lips!
   Not a full blushing goblet could tempt me to leave it,
     Though filled with the nectar that Jupiter sips.

   Samuel Woodworth.

LESSON LI

THE VALUE OF TIME

The value of time has passed into a proverb,--"Time is money."  It is so because its employment
brings money.  But it is more.  It is knowledge.  Still more, it is virtue.

Time is more than money.  It brings what money cannot purchase.  It has in its lap all the
learning of the past, the spoils of antiquity, the priceless treasures of knowledge.  Who would
barter these for gold or silver?  But knowledge is a means only, and not an end.  It is valuable
because it promotes the welfare, the development and the progress of man.  And the highest
value of time is not in knowledge, but in the opportunity of doing good.

Time is opportunity.  Little or much, it may be the occasion of usefulness.  It is the point
desired by the philosopher where to plant the lever that shall move the world.  It is the napkin
in which are wrapped, not only the talent of silver, but the treasures of knowledge and the
fruits of virtue.  Saving time, we save all these.

Employing time to the best advantage, we exercise a true thrift.  To each of us the passing
day is of the same dimensions, nor can any one, by taking thought, add a moment to its hours.
But, though unable to extend their duration, he may swell them with works.

It is customary to say, "Take care of the small sums, and the large will take care of themselves."
With equal wisdom may it be said, "Watch the minutes, and the hours and days will be safe."
The moments are precious; they are gold filings, to be carefully preserved and melted into
the rich ingot.

Time is the measure of life on earth.  Its enjoyment is life itself. Its divisions, its days,
its hours, its minutes, are fractions of this heavenly gift.  Every moment that flies over
our heads takes from the future, shortening by so much the measure of our days.

The moments lost in listlessness, or squandered in dissipation, are perhaps hours, days, weeks,
months, years.  The daily sacrifice of a single hour during a year comes at its end to thirty-six
working days, an amount of time ample for the acquisition of important knowledge, and for the
accomplishment of great good.  Who of us does not each day, in many ways, sacrifice these precious
moments, these golden hours?

Seek, then, always to be usefully occupied.  Employ all the faculties, whether in study or
in manual labor, and your days shall be filled with usefulness.

LESSON LII

THE STUDY OF CIVICS

Few people have the time to undertake a thorough study of civics, but everyone ought to find
time to learn the principal features of the government under which he lives.  We should know
also of the way in which our government came into existence, and how this government is administered
to-day.  Such knowledge is necessary for the proper discharge of the duties of citizenship.

All kinds of political questions are discussed daily in the newspapers and voted on at times
at the polls, and it is the duty of every man to try to understand them.  For if these questions
are not intelligently settled, they will be settled by the ignorant, and the result will be
very bad.

Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.  People sometimes think that, because our national
government is called a republic, and we have free schools and free libraries and other such
free institutions, our liberty is forever secure.  Our government is indeed a wonderful structure
of political skill, and generally runs so very smoothly that we almost think it will run of
itself.  Beware!

In order that the government of the nation, of the state, of the city or the town shall be
properly administered, it is necessary that every citizen be watchful to secure the best officers
for its government.

USEFUL INFORMATION

The great obelisk in Central Park, New York, is one of the most noted monoliths in the world.
It was quarried, carved and erected about the time of Abraham, to commemorate the deeds of
an ancient Pharaoh.  Five hundred years later the conquering Sesostris, the bad Pharaoh of
the Bible, carved on its surface the record of his famous reign.

Now Sesostris, or Rameses II, reigned one thousand years before the Trojan war, so that all
the symbols now seen on the obelisk were already very old in the days of Priam, Hector and
Ulysses.  The Roman poet Horace says that there were many brave men before Agamemnon, but there
was no Homer to put their valiant deeds in verse.  Sesostris was an exception.  He escaped
oblivion without the aid of Homer, and the figures upon the hard granite of Cleopatra's Needle
tell us even now, after more than thirty-five centuries, of the reign of that remarkable king.

LESSON LIII

THE SEA AND ITS USES

It is a common thing in speaking of the sea to call it "a waste of waters."  But this is a
mistake.  Instead of being a waste and a desert, it keeps the earth itself from becoming a
waste and a desert. It is the world's fountain of life and health and beauty, and if it were
taken away, the grass would perish from the mountains, the forests would crumble on the hills.
Water is as indispensable to all life, vegetable or animal, as the air itself.  This element
of water is supplied entirely by the sea.  The sea is the great inexhaustible fountain which
is continually pouring up into the sky precisely as many streams, and as large, as all the
rivers of the world are pouring into the sea.

The sea is the real birthplace of the clouds and the rivers, and out of it come all the rains
and dews of heaven.  Instead of being a waste and an incumbrance, therefore, it is a vast fountain
of fruitfulness, and the nurse and mother of all the living.  Out of its mighty breast come
the resources that feed and support the population of the world.  We are surrounded by the
presence and bounty of the sea.

It is the sea that feeds us.  It is the sea that clothes us.  It cools us with the summer cloud,
and warms us with the blazing fires of winter.  We make wealth for ourselves and for our children
out of its rolling waters, though we may live a thousand leagues away from its shore.  Thus
the sea, though it bears no harvest on its bosom, yet sustains all the harvest of the world.
If like a desert itself, it makes all the other wildernesses of the earth to bud and blossom
as the rose.  Though its own waters are as salt and wormwood, it makes the clouds of heaven
drop with sweetness.

The sea is a perpetual source of health to the world.  Without it there could be no drainage
for the lands.  It is the scavenger of the world. The sea is also set to purify the atmosphere.
Thus the sea, instead of being a waste of waters, is the very fountain of life, health and beauty.

LESSON LIV

WONDERLAND

Many of you have read of the remarkable geysers of Iceland and the more remarkable ones in
New Zealand, of grand cañons in Arizona, of deep mountain gorges in Colorado, of stupendous
falls in Africa, of lofty mountains covered with snow in Europe, of elevated lakes in South
America, of natural bridges in Virginia; but who has ever conceived of having all these wonders
in one spot of the earth, and forever free as a great National Park, visited each summer by
thousands of native and foreign travelers?

Travelers report that this corner of the earth seems to be not quite finished by the great
Creator.  Through all this region volcanic action has been exceedingly vigorous.  The effect
of fire upon the rocks is plainly visible and widely spread.  Whole mountains of volcanic rock
exist.  Floods of lava everywhere abound.  The last feeble evidence of this gigantic force
is to be seen in the hot springs on Gardiner River and on many other streams, and in the strange
action of the geyser basins.

There are sixteen important geysers in this section, and innumerable inferior ones.  One geyser
is called the "Giantess."  It throws a great mass of water to a small height, surging and splashing
in all directions.  One of the most noted geysers is called the "Castle Geyser," because of
its size and general appearance.  The opening of the geyser tube is circular, and about three
feet in diameter.

When this geyser is about to spout, a rumbling is heard as of thousands of tons of stones rolling
round and round.  Louder and louder grows the noise and disturbance, till it has thrown out
a few tons of water and obtained apparent relief.

These are warnings to the observers to retreat to a safe distance.  In a few moments the geyser
increases in noise, the earth even trembles, and then a great column of water is hurled into
the air.

Another geyser is "Old Faithful," so called because he plays regularly every sixty-five minutes.
The crater is quite low, and contains an opening which is only the widening of a crack extending
across the whole mound.  On the summit are a number of beautiful little pools, several feet
deep, filled with water so clear that a name written in pencil on a piece of stone and placed
at the bottom of the deepest pool is seen as clearly as if held in the hand.  Another remarkable
fact is, that the water does not efface the name, even after months of submersion.

Old Faithful begins with a few feeble jets.  Soon every spasm becomes more powerful, till with
a mighty roar, up comes the water in a great column.  This rises to the height of one hundred
and thirty feet for the space of about five minutes.  After the column of water sinks down
there is a discharge of steam.

The "Beehive Geyser" is named after the shape of its cone.  The water and steam issue from
the opening in a steady stream, instead of in successive impulses, as in the two mentioned
above.  No water falls back from this geyser, but the whole mass appears to be driven up into
fine spray or steam, which is carried away as cloud, or diffused into the atmosphere.

The names of some of the other well-known geysers are the "Giant," "Grotto," "Soda," "Turban,"
and "Young Faithful."  The tremendous force with which some of these hot springs even now act,
and the peculiarities of the earth's formation in this section of our country, may give us
some faint idea of the phenomena through which our little world has passed until it became
the dwelling-place of man.

LESSON LV

OUR COUNTRY TO-DAY

PART I

The United States is one of the youngest nations of the world. Civilized men first went to
England nearly twenty centuries ago, but since Columbus discovered America only four centuries
have passed. Each of these four centuries has a character of its own and is quite unlike the
others.  The first was the time of exploring, the second of colonizing, the third of deciding
who should rule in America, and the fourth of growth and development.

During the first century explorers from France, England, and Spain visited the New World, each
claiming for his own country the part that he explored.  Each hoped to find gold, but only
the Spaniards, who went to Mexico and Peru, were successful.  There was little thought of making
settlements, and at the end of the first century the Spanish colonies of St. Augustine and
Santa Fe were the only ones on the mainland of what is now the territory of the United States.

During the second century much colonizing was done.  The French settled chiefly along the Saint
Lawrence River; the English settled along the Atlantic coast of North America; the Spanish
in Mexico and South America; the Dutch by the Hudson River; the Swedes by the Delaware. The
European nations discovered that it was worth while to have American colonies.

During the third century there was a long struggle to see which nation should rule in America.
England and France were far ahead of the others, but which of them should it be?  The French
and Indian Wars gave the answer, "England."  Then another question arose; should it be England
or the Thirteen Colonies?  The Revolutionary War answered, "The Colonies."  At the end of the
third century the United States had been established, and the land east of the Mississippi
was under her rule.

In the last century there has been a great gain in people and in land. To-day there are thirty
times as many people in this country as there were then.

USEFUL INFORMATION

It may not be generally known that we have in the nickel five-cent piece of our American coinage
a key to the tables of linear measures and weights.  The diameter of a nickel is exactly two
centimeters, and its weight is five grammes.  Five nickels in a row will give the length of
the decimeter, and two of them will weigh a decagram.  As the kiloliter is a cubic meter, the
key of the measure of length is also that of capacity.

Among the North American Indians polished shells were used as currency. This money was called
wampum and was recognized by the colonists. Six white shells were exchanged for three purple
beads, and these in turn were equivalent to one English penny.

LESSON LVI

OUR COUNTRY TO-DAY

PART II

How has it come about that the number of people in the United States has increased with such
rapidity?  It is partly because more have been born than have died, and partly because so many
have come from foreign countries.  Fifty years ago large villages were common in which there
were hardly any foreigners.  Now one-sixth of the whole number of inhabitants of the United
States are people who were born in some other country.

These people are glad to come because the workingmen of America receive higher wages than those
of any other country, and because in America a man is free to rise to any position that he
is fitted to hold.  The country is ready to give the education that will prepare her citizens
to rise to high positions.  It is believed that an educated man is likely to make a better
citizen than an ignorant man, and therefore the public schools of the United States are entirely
free.  Then, too, there are public libraries not only in the cities but in many of the little
villages, so that men who are too old to go to school may educate themselves by reading.  There
is opportunity to use all kinds of knowledge in carrying on the manufactures of the country.
Almost everything that used to be made by hand is now made by machinery, and the skill to invent
a machine that will work a little better than the one in use is always well rewarded.  Knowledge
is also needed to develop the mineral wealth of the country.  Within the limits of the United
States are metals, coal, natural gas, and petroleum, and it is the skill and inventive genius
of her citizens that have brought such great wealth to the country from these products.

This inventive genius has also given us rapid and cheap transportation. In the old days a man
had to make or raise most things for himself. Manufactured articles that could be made very
cheaply in one place became exceedingly dear when they had to be carried long distances by
wagons over poor roads.  Many delicate kinds of fruit would spoil on such long journeys.  Now,
fruit can be sent from California to Maine in fine condition.  Cheap and rapid transportation
is a great convenience. Business men need not live in the cities near their offices,--the steam
or electric cars will carry them eight or ten miles in the time that it would take to walk
one mile.  The postal service and the telegraph are sure and rapid.  So also is the telephone.
No wonder, then, that our commerce has reached the fabulous sum of one billion, five hundred
million dollars in one year.

What the United States will become tomorrow, will lie in the hands of those who are the children
of to-day.

LESSON LVII

PICTURES FROM AMERICAN HISTORY

On the southern bank of the James River in Virginia stand the ruins of an old church.  Its
crumbling tower and broken arch are almost hidden by the tangled vines which cover it.  Within
the walls of the church-yard may be found a few ancient tombstones overgrown with ivy and long
grass.

This is all that remains of the first English settlement in America,--the colony of Jamestown,
Virginia.

This first permanent English settlement in the New World was made in the year 1607, more than
a hundred years after the discovery of America by Columbus.  Some attempts to colonize had
been made by the English before this time.  The most important of these was undertaken by the
famous but unfortunate Sir Walter Raleigh.

Raleigh obtained from Queen Elizabeth a grant of a vast territory, to be called Virginia, in
honor of Elizabeth, the "virgin queen."  It extended from the Hudson River to the boundary
of what is now Georgia.

In attempting to colonize Virginia, Raleigh spent a large fortune.  But his colonies never
prospered.  The settlers returned home disgusted with the hardships of the wilderness.  In
1589 Raleigh sold his rights to a stock company.

Nevertheless the enterprise which proved too difficult for Raleigh was carried out during Raleigh's
lifetime, under the leadership of the famous John Smith.

The idea of colonizing Virginia had been growing wonderfully.  In 1606 a company of "noblemen,
gentlemen, and merchants," called the London Company, obtained from King James the First a
charter for "planting and ruling" South Virginia.

The company had gathered together a band of men willing to try their fortunes in Virginia,
and they were just about to embark when Smith reached London.  To Smith's bold and roving disposition
the idea of a New World was irresistible, and he joined the colonists.

In the last month of the year 1606, the party--in all, one hundred and five men--set sail in
a little fleet of three vessels commanded by Captain Newport.

On the 23d of May, 1607, after a weary and distressing voyage, the Virginia colonists landed.
They commenced the settlement of Jamestown. When the king's sealed instructions were opened,
and the names of the seven directors were made known, it was found that John Smith was to be
one of the seven.  Through the jealousy of Wingfield, who was chosen president, he was not
allowed to take his place in the council.

But this did not prevent his being the ablest man among them, and the colonists were soon glad
to turn to him for guidance.  For now their condition was most deplorable.  They were surrounded
by hostile Indians; the provisions they had brought from England were soon consumed; and the
diseases caused by the hot, moist climate in a short time reduced their number by one-half.

Besides, the colonists were a troublesome class to deal with.  Many of them were broken-down
"gentlemen," who despised hard work.  A very few were farmers or mechanics or persons fitted
for the life they sought.

Day by day Smith made his influence more and more felt.  He soon became the head of the colony.
He put in force the good old rule that he who would not work should not eat.

Many strange adventures are told about John Smith during the two years he remained in Virginia.
He left the colony in the autumn of 1609 on account of a severe wound which he received, and
which obliged him to return to England to be cured.

The colonists, having lost the guidance of this resourceful man, were soon reduced to great
want; still they held out and later on became a flourishing colony.

LESSON LVIII

THOMAS A. EDISON

One of the greatest inventors of the age is Thomas A. Edison, and his whole life is an interesting
story for young people.  His mother had been a teacher, and her greatest wish for her son was
that he should love knowledge and grow up to be a good and useful man.

When Edison was only twelve years of age, he secured a position as train boy on the Grand Trunk
Railroad in one of the western states.  He went through the train and sold apples, peanuts,
papers, and books.  He had such a pleasant face that everybody liked to buy his wares.  He
traded some of his papers for things with which to try experiments.  He then fitted out an
old baggage car as a little room in which he began his first efforts in the way of inventions.

One of the things he did while working as a train boy was to print a paper on the train.  The
"London Times" spoke of it as the only paper in the world published on a train.  It was named
the "Grand Trunk Herald."

Young Edison worked as a train boy for four years, and he had in that time saved two thousand
dollars, which he gave to his parents.

Once he thought he would like to read all the books in the city library.  He read for a long
time, but he found that he could not finish all the books.  He then made up his mind that one
would have to live a thousand years in order to read all the books in that library, so he gave
up the idea.

One day he bought a book on electricity.  Soon after that the basement of his home was filled
with many odd things.  He used a stovepipe to connect his home with that of another boy, and
through this the boys could talk when they wished.

A kind friend taught young Edison how to telegraph, and in five months he could operate well
and was given a position.  He worked very hard, night and day, so that he could learn all he
could about electricity. He lost place after place because he was always trying some new idea.
When he first proposed to send four messages on one wire at the same time, he was laughed at
by the people; but Edison succeeded.  Later on he invented the phonograph.  His greatest invention
is the incandescent light, which is used for lighting purposes.

Mr. Edison loves his work, and although he is now a very wealthy man, he keeps on inventing
and working every day.  It is said that he sometimes works for twenty-four hours, day and night,
without food or rest, until he has perfected some new invention.  Mr. Edison is a true type
of an American gentleman.

SELECTION XVII

  OFT IN THE STILLY NIGHT

  Oft in the stilly night,
    Ere slumber's chain has bound me,
  Fond memory brings the light
    Of other days around me;
    The smiles, the tears
    Of boyhood's years,
  The words of love then spoken;
    The eyes that shone,
    Now dimm'd and gone,
  The cheerful hearts now broken.
  Thus in the stilly night,
    Ere slumber's chain has bound me,
  Sad memory brings the light
    Of other days around me.

  When I remember all
    The friends, so linked together,
  I've seen around me fall,
    Like leaves in wintry weather,
    I feel like one
    Who treads alone
  Some banquet hall deserted,
    Whose lights are fled,
    Whose garlands dead,
  And all but he departed.

  Thomas Moore.

LESSON LIX

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Abraham Lincoln, the restorer of the Union, the sixteenth president of the United States, was
born in Kentucky on the twelfth of February, 1809.  His father was a typical backwoodsman,
and young Lincoln grew up among frontier surroundings.  The Lincoln family came originally
from Pennsylvania.  At a later period the Lincolns moved south to Virginia, and again they
migrated to Kentucky.  It was here that the grandfather of Abraham Lincoln lost his life in
a battle with the Indians.

The first seven years of Lincoln's life were spent in the wilds of Kentucky.  In 1816 his father
left that state and moved northward to Indiana, but here the surroundings were not much better.
A rude blockhouse, with a single large room below and a low garret above, was the home of our
young hero.  Every hardship and privation of the pioneer's life was here the lot of our growing
youth.  But he loved the tangled woods, and hunting and fishing were his delight.

There were no schools there, and Abraham learned a little reading and writing from a man who
shared the poor blockhouse with the Lincoln family.  For writing, a slate was used, and now
and then a pine board, or even some flat stone upon which the figures were traced with charcoal.
His books were few, but he read them over and over again, and the impressions they made on
him were so much the deeper.  In this way Lincoln acquired the rudiments of education.  When
Abraham was scarcely nine years old, his excellent mother died.  His father married again,
and fortunately for young Lincoln, his stepmother was a lady of refinement, who took the greatest
interest in her rugged but talented step-son.  She sent him to a private school for a while,
and Abraham learned many useful things and easily kept at the head of his class. His stepmother
also procured more books for him, for Abraham was a most ardent reader, and he spent all his
leisure time in reading and self-culture.  Being tall of stature and well built, young Lincoln
had to help his father on the farm a great deal, and the only time left for study was late
at night or in the early morning.

Thus our future president grew up to manhood; a sturdy, awkward, but honest backwoodsman, with
a sound mind in a healthy body.

When Lincoln was about eighteen years old, his father again moved northward, this time to Illinois.
Here Abraham continued to work and to improve his mind as best he might.  Borrowing books from
some law office, he studied them at night and returned them in the morning.  His honesty and
true merit were soon recognized by the rest of the community where he lived, and he was elected
to represent the people in the legislature.

Lincoln became a lawyer of more than ordinary ability, and although his appearance remained
somewhat ungainly, he easily won his lawsuits by the clear and logical conclusions which he
advanced over those of his opponents.  He had thus secured a splendid law-practice and had
settled in Springfield, Illinois, when he became the republican candidate for president of
the United States in 1860, and was elected the same year.

The country at this time was agitated over two great questions: the question of slavery and
that of secession.  The South was ready to separate from the North, and the entire country
was in a most critical condition.  Such was the state of affairs when Abraham Lincoln took
the oath of office as president of the United States.  Lincoln was scarcely three weeks in
office when the great war of the Rebellion between the North and the South broke out; a war
of which there is no parallel in history.  Brother fought against brother, and father against
son.  Here it was that Lincoln showed his heroic courage, and by his indomitable will kept
the reins of government firmly in his hands, thus saving the country from utter anarchy.  The
war continued with unrelenting vigor for two years, and its horrible consequences were sorely
felt throughout the land.  In September, 1862, Lincoln issued his famous Emancipation Proclamation,
by which slavery was forever banished from this country.  Still the warring did not cease.
In 1864 Lincoln was elected for a second term in office.  The people knew his noble character
and they had full confidence in him.

At last peace seemed to be in sight.  The North had sacrificed the blood of thousands of its
men as well as the wealth of its treasuries. The South, in the same manner, had not only lost
tens of thousands of its bravest men, but it was utterly ruined, on account of the terrible
punishment the war had inflicted upon that sunny land.

Richmond, the stronghold of the rebellion, had fallen, and victory was on the side of the Union.
Amidst universal rejoicings, there came the saddest news.  On the 14th day of April, 1865,
Abraham Lincoln was assassinated.

The whole nation was thrown into deepest mourning.  The noble heart of Lincoln beat no more.
He is called the "Martyr President."

His remains were taken to Springfield, Illinois, where they rest at the foot of a small hill
in Oakwood Cemetery.  A simple monument, with the name--"Lincoln"--upon it, is the only epitaph
of him, who next to Washington was the greatest man of our glorious Republic.

November 19th, 1863.
  It looked like a rifle--  "Ha, Mary, good-night!"
    His life-blood is ebbing and dashing.

  All quiet along the Potomac to-night,
    No sound save the rush of the river;
  But the dew falls unseen on the face of the dead--
    The picket's off duty forever.

  Ethel L. Beers.

LESSON LXI

WAGES

Wages are a compensation given to the laborer for the exertion of his physical powers, or of
his skill and ingenuity.  They must, therefore, vary according to the severity of the labor
to be performed, or to the degree of skill and ingenuity required.  A jeweller or engraver,
for example, must be paid a higher rate of wages than a servant or laborer. A long course of
training is necessary to instruct a man in the business of jewelling or engraving, and if the
cost of his training were not made up to him in a higher rate of wages, he would, instead of
learning so difficult an art, betake himself to such employments as require hardly any instruction.

A skilled mason, who has served a long apprenticeship to his trade, will always obtain higher
wages than a common laborer, who has simply to use his mere bodily strength.  Were it not so,
there would be nothing to induce the mason to spend many years in learning a trade at which
he could earn no higher wages than the man who was simply qualified to carry lime in a hod,
or to roll a wheelbarrow.

The wages of labor in different employments vary with the constancy and inconstancy of employment.
Employment is much more constant in some trades than in others.  Many trades can be carried
on only in particular states of weather, and seasons of the year; and if the workmen who are
employed in these cannot easily find employment in others during the time they are thrown out
of work, their wages must be proportionally raised.  A journeyman weaver, shoemaker, or tailor
may reckon, unless trade is dull, upon obtaining constant employment; but masons, bricklayers,
pavers, and in general all those workmen who carry on their business in the open air, are liable
to constant interruptions.  Their wages, accordingly, must be sufficient to maintain them while
they are employed, and also when they are necessarily idle.

From the preceding observations it is evident that those who receive the highest wages are
not, when the cost of their education, and the chances of their success, are taken into account,
really better paid than those who receive the lowest.  The wages earned by the different classes
of workmen are equal, not when each individual earns the same number of dollars in a given
space of time, but when each is paid in proportion to the severity of the labor he has to perform,
and to the degree of previous education and skill it requires.  So long as each individual
is allowed to employ himself as he pleases, we may be assured that the rate of wages in different
employments will be comparatively equal.

SELECTION XIX

  COLUMBIA, THE GEM OF THE OCEAN; OR,
  THE RED, WHITE AND BLUE

1. O Columbia, the gem of the ocean,
     The home of the brave and the free,
   The shrine of each patriot's devotion,
     A world offers homage to thee.
   Thy mandates make heroes assemble,
     When Liberty's form stands in view,
  Thy banners make tyranny tremble,
    When borne by the red, white and blue.

  CHORUS.

2. When war winged its wide desolation.
     And threatened the land to deform,
   The ark then of freedom's foundation,
     Columbia, rode safe thro' the storm;
   With her garlands of vict'ry around her,
     When so proudly she bore her brave crew,
   With her flag proudly floating before her,
     The boast of the red, white and blue.

CHORUS.

3. The wine-cup, the wine-cup bring hither,
     And fill you it true to the brim;
   May the wreaths they have won never wither,
     Nor the star of their glory grow dim.
   May the service united ne'er sever,
     But they to their colors prove true.
   The Army and Navy forever,
     Three cheers for the red, white and blue.

  CHORUS.

  David T. Shaw.

LESSON LXIII

ECONOMY OF TIME

One of the most important lessons to be learned in life is the art of economizing time.  A
celebrated Italian was wont to call his time his estate; and it is true of this as of other
estates of which the young come into possession, that it is rarely prized till it is nearly
squandered.  Habits of indolence, listlessness, and sloth, once firmly fixed, cannot be suddenly
thrown off, and the man who has wasted the precious hours of life's seed-time finds that he
cannot reap a harvest in life's autumn.  In the long catalogue of excuses for neglect of duty,
there is none which drops more often from men's lips than the want of leisure.  People are
always cheating themselves with the idea that they would do this or that desirable thing, "if
they only had the time."  It is thus that the lazy and the selfish excuse themselves from a
thousand things which conscience dictates should be done.  Now, the truth is, there is no condition
in which the chance of doing any good is less than in that of leisure.

Go, seek out the men in any community who have done the most for their own and the general
good, and you will find they are--who?--Wealthy, leisurely people, who have plenty of time
to themselves, and nothing to do?  No; they are almost always the men who are in ceaseless
activity from January to December.  Such men, however pressed with business, are always found
capable of doing a little more; and you may rely on them in their busiest seasons with ten
times more assurance than on idle men.

The men who do the greatest things do them, not so much by fitful efforts, as by steady, unremitting
toil,--by turning even the moments to account.  They have the genius for hard work,--the most
desirable kind of genius.

  Rudyard Kipling.

SELECTION XXI

  HUMAN PROGRESS

  All is action, all is motion,
    In this mighty world of ours;
  Like the current of the ocean,
    Man is urged by unseen powers.

  Steadily, but strongly moving,
    Life is onward evermore;
  Still the present is improving
    On the age that went before.

  Duty points with outstretched fingers,
    Every soul to action high;
  Woe betide the soul that lingers--
    Onward! onward! is the cry.

  Though man's form may seem victorious,
    War may waste and famine blight,
  Still from out the conflict glorious,
    Mind comes forth with added light.

  O'er the darkest night of sorrow,
    From the deadliest field of strife,
  Dawns a clearer, brighter morrow,
    Springs a truer, nobler life.

  Onward! onward! onward, ever!
    Human progress none may stay;
  All who make the vain endeavor
    Shall, like chaff, be swept away.

  J. Hagan.

LESSON LXIV

GEORGE STEPHENSON, THE ENGINEER

A famous engineer, named Stephenson, was the first person to demonstrate the fact that an engine
could be built which would draw a train of cars on a railway.  He was an Englishman.  His parents
were poor, and the whole family had to live in one room.  George was one of six children; none
of them were sent to school, because they had to work for their living.

From an early age George had assisted his father in tending the fires of the steam engine which
worked the machinery of a large coal mine. He devoted himself to the study of this engine until
he had mastered every detail of its construction.  In 1813, a rich nobleman entrusted him with
money to carry out his favorite plan of building a "traveling engine," as he then called it.

He made an engine that was fairly successful, as it drew eight loaded cars on a railway at
a speed of four miles an hour.  But he was not contented; he knew that he could do much better.
Soon afterward, he was employed to construct another engine, in which he made some great improvements
that enabled it to go twice as fast as the other.

Accounts of Stephenson's great invention crept into print, and people began to have faith in
the locomotive.  In 1822, a company began to build a line of railway between two towns named
Stockton and Darlington.  Stephenson was employed to construct the road-bed and build the engines.
It was completed three years later, and was the subject of great popular curiosity.

Great crowds came to see the line opened.  Stephenson himself drove the first engine.  The
train consisted of thirty-four cars.  The signal was given and the train started.  Great was
the sensation as it moved off, and still greater was the admiration of the people at Stockton
when the train arrived there after a safe journey.  Thus, in 1825, was opened the first railway
ever made for public use.

Stephenson was soon engaged in constructing a railway between Manchester and Liverpool.  But
now a storm of opposition broke out. Pamphlets and newspaper articles were written, making
fun of Stephenson, and declaring that the new railroad would be a failure.  It was claimed
that the engine would certainly set fire to the surrounding country, that it would explode
and kill the passengers, and that it would run over the people before they could get out of
its way.

A committee was appointed by the English Parliament to look into the matter.  They sneered
at Stephenson as a lunatic, when he assured them that he could run his engine at twelve miles
an hour.  One of these wise men said to him: "Suppose a cow were to get in the way of an engine
running at that rate of speed, wouldn't that be a very awkward circumstance?"  "Yes," answered
Stephenson, "very awkward for the cow."

But the consent of Parliament was at last obtained, and the line was completed in 1830, after
many great obstacles had been overcome.  It was shown that a train could be run at thirty miles
an hour with safety, and thus the enemies of Stephenson were silenced.

Stephenson superintended the building of many other lines of railroad, and lived to see his
best hopes realized.  He became quite wealthy, and many honors were bestowed upon him.  Nevertheless
he remained always a simple, kindly man, even in his years of prosperity.

When England had experienced such success with railways, it was not long before America began
building railroads on a large scale.

More than three hundred thousand miles of railroads are now in operation in the United States,
and many more miles are added each year.  The great systems of railways, with their modern
improvements for fast travel, are a triumph of skill, energy and enterprise.

LESSON LXV

GEORGE WASHINGTON

PART II

The boundary war between France and the British possessions in America had been the cause of
the war from 1753 to 1759 in which Washington and thousands of his countrymen did gallant services.
It ended with the surrender of Quebec, by which France lost her foothold in the Ohio valley
and all the territory east of the Mississippi.

Ten years later, the whole aspect had changed.  The same country, for which our forefathers
in the colonies had sacrificed some of their noblest sons, was now beginning to oppress these
very colonies.  By unjust taxation, England tried to replenish her treasury, which a protracted
war across the seas had made empty.  But though the war against the French in the interest
of England had cost the colonies in America some of its best blood, it had not been without
its salutary lesson.  America had learned its own strength as well as the weakness of the British
soldiers and her public officials.  Washington, above all, knew these facts too well.  He was,
however, no agitator, and for many reasons was deeply attached to old England.  He, therefore,
cautioned reserve and forbearance without sacrificing his patriotism.

In the meantime the Revolution came to an outbreak.  Washington was called upon by his compatriots
to lead them on to liberty.  After careful examination and due consideration he consented,
and Washington took command of the colonial troops in the war against England.  "It is my intention,"
said he, "if needs be, to sacrifice my life, my liberty and all my possessions in this holy cause."

Thus, we see him leading the army, animated with the noblest sentiments.  General Washington
was now forty-three years of age and in the full power of manhood.  His personality was distinguished
and his bearing serene.  He electrified the whole army.

The Colonial troops, however, were not at all times equal to the well-drilled English soldiers,
and General Washington had a difficult task before him.  But what the Americans lacked in military
tactics, they doubly possessed in enthusiasm and courage.

From Lexington and Boston, Bunker Hill and Concord, through Connecticut, New York, Philadelphia,
Valley Forge, and from Princeton to Morristown was a wearisome march.  Want of provisions for
the army under his command, as well as many other disappointments, might well have discouraged
any but the stoutest heart.  General Washington was a hero, and he trusted in God and the ultimate
success of the country's just cause.  When at last the American army was in sorest distress,
there came unexpected help from many quarters.

Such noble and self-sacrificing men as Lafayette, Steuben, Kosciusko, De Kalb and De Grasse
arrived to aid our new republic, and after an unrelenting war of six long years, British rule
was forever banished from the land.

On the 4th of December, 1782, General Washington took leave of the continental army.  His memorable
speech on that occasion is a masterpiece of unselfish patriotism.

He retired to his home at Mount Vernon, followed by the heartfelt blessings of a grateful people.
His private life was one of regularity in all his doings.  His hospitality was renowned, and
Mount Vernon soon became a much frequented, much beloved place of reunion for many distinguished
visitors.

Not a great many years was Washington permitted to enjoy his well-merited repose in his country
home.  The same country of which he had been the successful liberator, now called upon him
to lead and guide this newly established government.  Washington was chosen the First President
of the United States of America in 1789.

It was at this time that he wrote in his diary: "To-day I take leave of private life and domestic
happiness with feelings of regret, and am preparing to enter upon my official career.  I hope
I shall be able to realize the expectations my country has placed in me."

His journey from Mount Vernon to New York became one of triumph.  He was met with the greatest
enthusiasm throughout the country wherever he passed.  He took his oath of office in New York
City where the sub-treasury now stands.

Washington was elected a second time for the presidency.  His presidential career was characteristic
of the man and the hero.

An equitable and conservative government was administered by him, and the young republic was
prosperous and progressive during his two terms of office.

Having returned once more to his beloved Virginia home, Washington now spent his declining
years in much needed rest and quiet recreation.

In the fall of the year 1799 Washington was seized with a malignant fever.  The best medical
aid proved unavailing, and the Father of our Country died on the 14th day of December.  His
last words were: "Let me die in peace; I am not afraid to die, it is a debt we all must pay."

The exemplary life and the many noble achievements of this truly great man stand almost unique
in the history of nations.

LESSON LXVI

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Benjamin Franklin was born poor, but nothing could keep him ignorant. His genius and strong
will were wealth enough for any man.  At the age of twelve he was apprenticed to his brother
James, who was a printer. At the same time--perhaps a little later--he used to sell his own
ballads in the streets of Boston.

At twenty-one years of age he was a master printer in Philadelphia, in his shop on Market Street.
He had been at school in Boston for two years, but after the age of ten he had been obliged
to teach himself: he was too poor to spend even those early years in a schoolhouse.  Yet he
learned without such helps as schools and schoolmasters afford.  He studied Latin, French,
Italian, Spanish, and German, and lived to hear two continents call him the greatest philosopher
of his time.

He discovered that lightning and electricity are the same, and taught men how to guard their
houses against the thunder-bolt.  To his great mind it seemed that all things came alike: no
invention was too simple, and no idea too lofty.  Whatever had to be done was worth doing in
the best and simplest way: that was the ruling principle of Benjamin Franklin's life.

He was an earnest and fearless patriot, always on the side of the people and their rights.
His strong will, his cool manner, and his bold spirit made him an enemy not to be scorned by
England.  "What used to be the pride of the Americans?" asked a member of the English Parliament
in 1776.  And Franklin, then pleading the cause of the colonies before the House of Commons,
replied, "To indulge in the fashions and wear the manufactures of Great Britain."

The Englishman, sure that Franklin would be less ready to answer, continued: "What is now their
pride?"  And in a flash the old philosopher of threescore and ten said, "To wear their old
clothes over again till they can make new ones."  Years had not broken the strong will or dulled
the sharp wit.

His efforts to secure for the Americans the aid of France can never be forgotten by the American
people.  Burgoyne's surrender made the French believe that the patriots' cause was worthy of
assistance, but it is quite certain that the eloquence of Dr. Franklin, as the French people
called the Great American, had opened the way for all that followed.

Whatever favor he met with in society, whatever honor he received, whatever fame he acquired
at home or abroad, he turned all to account for the good of his country.

SELECTION XXII

  GIVE ME THE PEOPLE

  Some love the glow of outward show,
    The shine of wealth, and try to win it:
  The house to me may lowly be,
    If I but like the people in it.

  What's all the gold that glitters cold,
    When linked to hard and haughty feeling?
  Whate'er we're told, the noblest gold
    Is truth of heart and honest dealing.

  A humble roof may give us proof
    That simple flowers are often fairest;
  And trees whose bark is hard and dark
    May yield us fruit, and bloom the rarest.

  There's worth as sure among the poor
    As e'er adorned the highest station;
  And minds as just as theirs, we trust,
    Whose claim is but of rank's creation.

  Then let them seek, whose minds are weak,
    Mere fashion's smile, and try to win it:
  The house to me may lowly be,
    If I but like the people in it.

  Charles Swain.

LESSON LXVII

NOBILITY REWARDED

A rich man, feeling himself growing old, called his three sons around him and said: "I am resolved
to divide my goods equally among you.  You shall each have your full share, but there is one
thing which I have not included in the share of any one of you.  It is this costly diamond
which you see in my hand.  I will give it to that one of you who shall earn it by the noblest
deed.  Go, therefore, and travel for three months; at the end of that time we will meet here
again, and you shall tell me what you have done."

The sons departed accordingly, and traveled three months, each in a different direction.  At
the end of that time they returned; and all came together to their father to give an account
of their journey.

The eldest son spoke first.  He said: "On my journey a stranger entrusted to me a great number
of valuable jewels, without taking any account of them.  Indeed, I was well aware that he did
not know how many the parcel contained.  One or two of them would never have been missed, and
I might easily have enriched myself without fear of detection.  But I did no such thing; I
gave back the parcel exactly as I had received it.  Was not this a noble deed?"

"My son," said the father, "simple honesty cannot be called noble.  You did what was right,
and nothing more.  If you had acted otherwise, you would have been dishonest, and your deed
would have shamed you.  You have done well, but not nobly."

The second son now spoke.  He said: "As I was traveling on my journey one day, I saw a poor
child playing by the edge of a lake; and, just as I rode by, it fell into the water, and was
in danger of being drowned. I immediately dismounted from my horse, and, wading into the water,
brought it safe to land.  All the people of the village where this occurred can bear witness
of the deed.  Was it not a noble action?"

"My son," replied the old man, "you did only what was your duty, and you could hardly have
left the innocent child to die without making an effort to save it.  You, too, have acted well,
but not nobly."

Then the third son came forward to tell his tale.  He said: "I had an enemy, who for years
has done me much harm and sought to take my life. One evening, during my late journey, I was
passing along a dangerous road which ran beside the summit of a steep cliff.  As I rode cautiously
along, my horse started at sight of something lying in the road.  I dismounted to see what
it was, and found my enemy lying fast asleep on the very edge of the cliff.  The least movement
in his sleep, and he must have rolled over, and would have been dashed to pieces on the rocks
below.  His life was in my hands.  I drew him away from the edge, and then woke him, and told
him to go on his way in peace."

Then the old man cried out, in a transport of joy: "Dear son, the diamond is thine; for it
is a noble and godlike thing to help the enemy, and to reward evil with good."

Section III.--New States and Territories.

AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION.

[1]The Articles of Confederation proved by experience inadequate to the wants of the people
of the United States, and they were supplanted by the Constitution.

"The American Constitution, with its manifest defects, still remains one of the most abiding
monuments of human wisdom, and it has received a tribute to its general excellence such as
no other political system was ever honored with."--FREEMAN.

[2]This clause has been superseded by Amendment XIV., Sect. 2.

[3]This clause has been amended and superseded by the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution.
By the provisions of the original clause the person in the electoral college having the greatest
number of votes (provided he had a majority of the whole number of electors appointed) became
President, and the person having the next greatest number of votes became Vice-president, thus
giving the Presidency to one political party and the Vice-Presidency to another.  In the year
1800 the Democratic Republicans determined to elect Thomas Jefferson President and Aaron Burr
Vice-president.  The result was that each secured an equal number of votes, and neither was
elected.  The Constitution then, as now, provided that in case the electoral college failed
to elect a President, the House of Representatives, voting as States, should elect.  The Federalists
distrusted and disliked Jefferson; the Democratic Republicans and some of the Federalists distrusted
and disliked Burr.  The vote in the House on the thirty-sixth ballot gave the Presidency to
Jefferson and the Vice-Presidency to Burr.

[4]More than seven hundred amendments to the Constitution have been proposed since it was adopted.
Several are usually proposed at each session of Congress.

The first twelve articles of amendment to the Federal Constitution were adopted so soon after
the original organization of the Government under it in 1789 as to justify the statement that
they were practically contemporaneous with the adoption of the original (JUSTICE MILLER, U.
S. Supreme Court).

[5]In the case of Chisholm vs. The State of Georgia, the Supreme Court decided that under Article
III., Section 2, of the Constitution a private citizen of a State might bring suit against
a State other than the one of which he was a citizen.  This decision, by which a State might
be brought as defendant before the bar of a Federal court, was highly displeasing to the majority
of the States in 1794.  On the 5th of March of that year the Eleventh Amendment was passed
by two-thirds of both houses of Congress, and declared in force January 8, 1798. Practically,
the amendment has been the authority for the repudiation of debts by several States.

