"You see how your inquiries might have been utterly baffled but for this find of mine," Ruth
said, as the two went along North Street. "We shall find presently that the Metropole American
and Reginald Henson are one and the same person."

"And you fancy that he made the exchange at Lockhart's?"

"I feel pretty certain of it," Ruth replied. "And you will be sure later on to find that he
had a hand in the purchase of the other cigar-case from Walen's. Go to Marley's and get him
to make inquiries as to whether or not Walen's got their case down on approval."

David proceeded to do so without further delay. Inspector Marley was out, but David left a
message for him. Would he communicate by telephone later on? Steel had just finished his dinner
when Marley rang him up.

"Are you there? Yes, I have seen Walen. Your suggestion was quite right. Customer had seen
cigar-case exactly like it in Lockhart's, only too dear. Walen dealt with some manufacturers
and got case down. Oh, no, never saw customer again. That sort of thing happens to shopkeepers
every day. Yes. Walen thinks he would recognise his man again. Nothing more? Good-night, sir."

CHAPTER XLI

A DELICATE ERRAND

It looked like being a long, dull evening for Steel if he were not going to the theatre or
anything of that kind. He generally read till about eleven o'clock, after which he sat up for
another couple of hours plotting out the day's task for to-morrow. To-night he could only wander
restlessly about his conservatory, snipping off a dead leaf here and there and wondering where
the whole thing was going to end.

With a certain sense of relief David heard the front door-bell trill about eleven o'clock.
Somebody was coming to see him, and it didn't matter much who in Steel's present frame of mind.
But he swept into the study with a feeling of genuine pleasure as Hatherly Bell was announced.

"My dear fellow, I'm delighted to see you," he cried. "Take the big armchair. Let me give you
a cigar and a whisky and soda and make you comfortable. That's better."

"I'm tired out," Bell said. "In London all day, and since six with Cross. Can you put me up
for the night?"

"My bachelor bedroom is always ready, Bell."

"Thanks. I don't fancy you need be under any apprehension that anybody has spirited Van Sneck
away. In the first place Henson, who seems to have discovered what happened, is in a terrible
state about it. He wanted very badly to remain at Littimer, but when he heard that Van Sneck
had left the hospital he came down here; in fact, we travelled together. Of course he said
nothing whatever about Van Sneck, whom he is supposed to know nothing about, but I could see
that he was terribly disturbed. The worst of it is that Cross was going to get me to operate
on Van Sneck; and Heritage, who seems wonderfully better, was going to assist."

"Is your unfortunate friend up to that kind of thing now?" David asked.

"I fancy so. Do you know that Heritage used to have a fairly good practice near Littimer Castle?
Lord Littimer knows him well. I want Heritage to come into this. I want to get at the reason
why Henson has been so confoundedly good to Heritage. For years he has kept his eye upon him;
for years he has practically provided him with a home at Palmer's. And when Heritage mentions
Henson's name he always does so with a kind of forced gratitude."

"You think that Heritage is going to be useful to us?"

"I fancy so. Mind you, it is only my idea--what I call intuition, for want of a better word.
And what have you been doing lately?"

David proceeded to explain, giving the events of the afternoon in full detail. Bell followed
the account with the deepest interest. Then he proceeded to tell his own story. David appeared
to be fascinated with the tale of the man with the thumb-nail.

"So Miss Chris hopes to hypnotise the man with the thumb," he said. "You have seen more of
her than I have, Bell. Does she strike you as she strikes me--a girl of wonderfully acute mind
allied to a pluck and audacity absolutely brilliant?"

"She is that and more," Bell said, warmly. "Now that she is free to act she has developed wonderfully.
Look how cleverly she worked out that Rembrandt business, how utterly she puzzled Henson, and
how she helped me to get into Littimer's good books again without Henson even guessing at the
reason. And now she has forced the confidence of that rascal Merritt. She has saved him from
a gaol into which she might have thrown him at any moment, she has convinced him that she is
something exceedingly brilliant in the way of an adventuress, with a great coup ahead. Later
on she will use Merritt, and a fine hard-cutting tool she will find him."

"Where is Henson at the present moment?" David asked.

"I left him in London this afternoon," Bell replied. "But I haven't the slightest doubt in
the world that he has made his way to Brighton by this time. In all probability he has gone
to Longdean."

Bell paused as the telephone bell rang out shrilly. The mere sound of it thrilled both of them
with excitement. And what a useful thing the telephone had proved!

"Are you there?" came the quick, small whisper. "Is that you, Mr. Steel? I am Enid Henson."

There was a long pause, during which David was listening intently. Bell could see him growing
rigid with the prospect of something keen, alert, and vigorous.

"Bell is here with me at this moment," he said. "Just wait a minute whilst I tell him. Don't
go away, please. Under the circumstances it might be dangerous for me to ring you ... Just
a moment. Here's a pretty mess."

"Well," Bell said, impatiently, "I'm only a mere man, after all."

"Henson is at Longdean; he turned up an hour ago, and at the present moment is having his supper
in the library before going to bed. But that is not the worst part of it. Williams heard the
dogs making a great noise by the gates, and went to see what was wrong. Some poor, demented
fellow had climbed over the wall, and the dogs were holding him up. Fortunately, he did not
seem to be conscious of his danger, and as he stood still the hounds did him no harm. Williams
was going to put the intruder into the road again when Miss Henson came up. And whom do you
suppose the poor, wandering tramp to be?"

Bell pitched his cigar into the grate full of flowers and jumped to his feet.

"Van Sneck, for a million," he cried. "My head to a cocoanut on it."

"The same. They managed to get the poor fellow into the house before Williams brought Henson
from the lodge, and he's in the stables now in a rather excited condition. Now, I quite agree
with Miss Henson that Henson must be kept in ignorance of the fact, also that Van Sneck must
be got away without delay. To inform the hospital authorities would be to spoil everything
and play into Henson's hands. But he must be got away to-night."

"Right you are. We'll go and fetch him. Et apres?"

"Et apres he will stay here. He shall stay here, and you shall say that it is dangerous to
remove him. Cross shall be told and Marley shall be told, and the public shall be discreetly
kept in ignorance for the present. I'll go over there at once, as there is no time to be lost.
Miss Henson suggests that I should come, and she tells me that Williams will wait at the lodge-gates
for me. But you are going to stay here."

"Oh, indeed! And why am I going to stay here?"

"Because, my dear friend, I can easily manage the business single-handed, and because you must
run no risk of meeting Henson yonder. You are not now supposed to know where the family are,
nor are you supposed to take the faintest interest in them. Stay here and make yourself comfortable
till I return.... Are you there? I will be at Longdean as soon as possible and bring Van Sneck
here. No, I won't ring off; you had better do that. I shall be over in less than an hour."

David hung up the receiver and proceeded to don a short covert coat and a cap. In the breast-pocket
of the coat he placed a revolver.

"Just as well to be on the safe side," he said. "Though I am not likely to be troubled with
the man with the thumb again. Still, Henson may have other blackguards; he may even know where
Van Sneck is at the present moment, for all I know to the contrary."

"I feel rather guilty letting you go alone," Bell said.

"Not a bit of it," said David, cheerfully. "Smoke your cigar, and if you need any supper ring
for it. You can safely leave matters in my hands. Van Sneck shall stay here till he is fit,
and then you shall operate upon him. After that he ought to be as clay in the hands of the
potter. So long."

And David went off gaily enough. He kept to the cliffs for the first part of the distance,
and then struck off across the fields in the direction of Longdean. The place was perfectly
quiet, the village was all in darkness as he approached the lodge-gates of the Grange. Beyond
the drive and between the thick, sad firs that shielded the house he could see the crimson
lights gleaming here and there. He could catch the rumble and scratch in the bushes, and ever
and again a dog whined. The big gate was closed as David peeped in searching for his guide.

"Williams," he whispered; "Williams, where are you?"

But no reply came. The silence was full of strange, rushing noises, the rush of blood in David's
head. He called again and again, but no reply came. Then he heard the rush and fret of many
feet, the cry of a pack of hounds, a melancholy cry, with a sombre joy in it. He saw a light
gleaming fitfully in the belt of firs.

"No help for it," David muttered. "I must chance my luck. I never saw a dog yet that I was
afraid of. Well, here goes."

He scrambled over the wall and dropped on the moist, clammy earth on the other side. He fumbled
forward a few steps, and then stopped suddenly, brought up all standing by the weird scene
which was being solemnly enacted under his astonished eyes.

CHAPTER XLII

PRINCE RUPERT'S RING

Whilst events were moving rapidly outside, time at Longdean Grange seemed to stand still. The
dust and the desolation were ever there. The gloom brooded like an evil spirit. And yet it
was but the calm before the storm that was coming to banish the hoary old spectres for good.

Still, Enid felt the monotony to be as maddening as ever. There were times when she rebelled
passionately against the solitude of the place. There were moments to her when it seemed that
her mind couldn't stand the strain much longer.

But she had hope, that blessed legacy to the sanguine and the young. And there were times when
she would creep out and see Ruth Gates, who found the Rottingdean Road very convenient for
cycling just now. And there was always the anticipation of a telephone message from Chris.
Originally the telephone had been established so that the household could be run without the
intrusion of tradesmen and other strangers. It had seemed a great anomaly at the time, but
now Enid blessed it every moment of the day. And she was, perhaps, not quite so unhappy as
she deemed herself to be. She had her lover back again now, with his character free from every
imputation.

The sun straggled in through the dim, dusty panes; the monotonous voice of Mrs. Henson droned
in the drawing-room. It was what Williams called one of the unhappy lady's "days." Sometimes
she was quiet and reasonable, at other times the dark mood hung heavily upon her. She was pacing
up and down the drawing-room, wringing her hands and whimpering to herself. Enid had slipped
into the grounds for a little fresh air; the house oppressed her terribly to-day. The trim
lawns and blazing flowerbeds were a pleasant contrast to the misery and disorder of the house.

Enid passed on into the shadow of the plantation. A little farther on nearer the wall the dogs
seemed to be excited about something. William's rusty voice could be heard expostulating with
some intruder. By him stood a man who, though fairly well dressed, looked as if he had slept
in his garments for days. There was a dazed, puzzled, absent expression on his face.

"You might have been killed," Williams croaked. "If you hadn't stood still they dogs would
have pulled you to pieces. How did you get here?"

"I've lost it," the stranger muttered. "I've lost it somewhere, and I shall have no rest till
I find it."

"Well, go and look in the road," Williams suggested, smoothly. "Nothing ever gets lost here.
Just you hop over that wall and try your luck outside."

Enid came forward. Evidently the intruder was no stranger to her. Williams started to explain
volubly. But Enid cut him short at once.

"A most extraordinary thing has happened," she said. "It is amazing that this man should come
here of all places. Williams, this is the man Van Sneck."

"What, the chap as was wounded in the hospital, miss?"

"The same. The man is not in full possession of his senses. And if Reginald Henson finds him
now it is likely to go hard with him. He must be taken into the house and looked after until
I can communicate with somebody I can trust. Mr. Steel, I think. He must be got back to the
hospital. It is the only place where he is safe."

Van Sneck seemed to be looking on with the vacant stare of the mindless. He suffered himself
to be led to the house, where he was fed like a child. It was in vain that Enid plied him with
all kinds of questions. He had lost something--he would have no peace till he had found it.
This was the one burden of his cry. Enid crossed to the window in some perplexity. The next
moment she had something else to occupy her mind. Reginald Henson was coming up the drive.
Just for an instant Enid felt inclined to despair.

"Williams," she cried, "Mr. Henson is here. On no account must he see our unfortunate visitor.
He cannot possibly know that Van Sneck is here; the whole thing is an accident. I am going
down into the hall. I shall contrive to get Mr. Henson into the drawing-room. Without delay
you must smuggle Mr. Van Sneck into your apartments over the stable. You will be perfectly
safe if you go down the back staircase. As soon as the drawing-room door closes, go."

Williams nodded. He was essentially a man of action rather than words. With all the coolness
she could summon up Enid descended to the hall. She gave a little gesture of surprise and disdain
as she caught sight of Henson.

"So you came down to welcome me?" Enid said, coldly.

A sudden light of rage lit up Henson's blue eyes. He caught Enid almost roughly by the shoulders
and pushed her into the drawing-room. There was something coming, she knew. It was a relief
a minute or two later to hear Williams's whistle as he crossed the courtyard. Henson knew nothing
of Van Sneck's presence, nor was he likely to do so now.

"You are forgetting yourself," Enid said. "How dare you touch me like that?"

"By heavens," Henson whispered, vehemently, "when I consider how I have been fooled by you
I wonder that I do not strike the life out of you. Where is your sister?"

Enid assumed an air of puzzled surprise. She raised her eyebrows, coldly. But it needed no
very brilliant intelligence to tell her that Henson had discovered something.

"I had only one sister," she said, "and she is--"

"Dead! Rot. No more dead than I am. A nice little scheme you had put up together with that
scribbling ass David Steel. But Steel is going to get a lesson not to interfere in my affairs,
and you are going to get one also. Where is your sister?"

Despite his bullying triumph there was something nervous and anxious about the tone of the
question. It was not quite like Henson to let his adversary see that he had scored a point.
But since the affair of the dogs Henson had not been quite his old self. It was easy to see
that he had found out a great deal, but he had not found out where Chris was yet.

"I know nothing," said Enid. "I shall answer no questions."

"Very well. But I shall find out. Accident put me on the trail first. And I have been to see
that man Walker. He never saw your sister after her 'death,' nor did the undertaker. And I
might have met my death at the fangs of that dog you put upon me. What a fool Walker was."

Enid looked up a little anxiously. Had Walker said anything about a second opinion? Had he
betrayed to Henson the fact that he had been backed up by Hatherly Bell? Because they had taken
a deal of trouble to conceal the fact that Bell had been in the house.

"Dr. Walker should have called in another opinion," she said, mockingly.

"The man was too conceited for that, and you know it," Henson growled; "and finely you played
upon his vanity."

Enid was satisfied. Walker had evidently said nothing about Bell; and Henson, though he had
just come from Littimer, knew nothing about Chris.

"You have made a statement," she said, "and in reply I say nothing. You have chosen to assume
that my sister is still alive. Well, it is a free country, and you are at liberty to think
as you please. If we had anything to gain by the course you suggest--"

"Anything to gain!" Henson burst out angrily.

"Everything to gain. One whom I deemed to be dead is free to follow me to pry into my affairs,
to rob me. That was part of Steel's precious scheme, I presume. If you and your sister and
Miss Gates hadn't talked so loudly that day in the garden I might not--"

"Have listened," said Enid, coldly. "Ears like a hare and head like a cat. But you don't know
everything, and you never will. You scoundrel, you creeping, crawling scoundrel! If I only
dared to speak. If I cared less for the honour of this unhappy family--"

"If you could only get the ring," said Henson, with a malicious sneer. "But the ring is gone.
The ruby ring lies at the bottom of the North Sea."

Some passionate, heedless words rose to Enid's lips, but she checked them. All she could do
now was to watch and wait till darkness. Van Sneck must be got out of the way before anything
else was done. She did not dare to use the telephone yet, though she had made up her mind to
ask Steel to come over and take Van Sneck away. Later on she could send the message.

Van Sneck had eaten a fairly good meal, so Williams said, and had fallen into a heavy sleep.
There was nothing for it but to wait and watch. Dinner came in due course, with Mrs. Henson,
ragged and unkempt as usual, taking no notice of Henson, who watched her furtively during the
meal. Enid escaped to her own room directly afterwards, and Henson followed his hostess to
the drawing-room.

Once there his manner changed entirely. His lips grew firm, his eyes were like points of steel.
Mrs. Henson was pacing the dusty floor, muttering and crooning to herself. Henson touched her
arm, at the same time holding some glittering object before her eyes. It was a massive ruby
ring with four black pearls on either side.

"Look here," he whispered. "Do you recognise it? Have you seen it before?"

A pitiful, wailing cry came from Mrs. Henson's lips. She was trembling from head to foot with
a strange agitation. She gazed at the ring as a thirsty man in a desert might have looked on
a draught of cold spring water. She stretched out her hand, but Henson drew back.

"I thought you had not forgotten it," he smiled. "It means much to you, honour, peace, happiness--your
son restored to his proper place in the world. Last time I was here I wanted money, a mere
bagatelle to you. Now I want £10,000."

"No, no," Mrs. Henson cried. "You will ruin me--£10,000! What do you do with all the money?
You profess to give it all to charity. But I know better. Much you give away that more may
come back from it. But that money you get from a credulous public. And I could expose you,
ah, how I could expose you, Reginald Henson."

"Instead of which you will let me have that £10,000."

"I cannot. You will ruin me. Have you not had enough? Give me the ring."

Henson smilingly held the gem aloft. Mrs. Henson raised her arm, with the dust rising in choking
clouds around her. Then with an activity astonishing in one of her years she sprang upon Henson
and tore the ring from his grasp. The thing was so totally unexpected from the usually gentle
lady that Henson could only gasp in astonishment.

"I have it," Mrs. Henson cried. "I have it, and I am free!"

Henson sprang towards her. With a quick, fleet step she crossed to the window and fled out
into the night. A raging madness seemed to have come over her again; she laughed and she cried
as she sped on into the bushes, followed by Henson. In his fear and desperation the latter
had quite forgotten the dogs. He was in the midst of them, they were clustered round himself
and Mrs. Henson, before he was aware of the fact.

"Give me the ring," he said. "You can't have it yet. Some day I will restore it to you. Be
sensible. If anybody should happen to see you." Mrs. Henson merely laughed. The dogs were gambolling
around her like so many kittens. They did not seem to heed Henson in the joy of her presence.
He came on again, he made a grab for her dress, but the rotten fabric parted like a cobweb
in his hand. A warning grunt came from one of the dogs, but Henson gave no heed.

"Give it me," he hissed; "or I will tear it from you."

CHAPTER XLIII

HEARING THE TRUTH

David Steel stood contemplating the weird scene with almost doubting eyes. In his wildest moments
he had never imagined anything more dramatic than this. The candle in its silver sconce that
Mrs. Henson had snatched up before her flight was perilously near her flimsy dress. Henson
caught her once more in a fierce grip. David could stand it no longer. As Henson came by him
his right arm flashed out, there was a dull thud, and Henson, without having the least idea
what had happened, fell to the ground, with a very hazy idea of his surroundings for a moment
or two.

Equally unconscious that she had a protector handy, Mrs. Henson turned and fled for the house.
A minute later and she was followed by Henson, still puzzling his racking head to know what
had happened. David would have followed, but the need for caution flashed upon him. If he stood
there perfectly still Henson would never know who his antagonist was. David stood there waiting.
As he glanced round he saw some little object glittering near to his feet. It was the ruby ring!

"Be you there, sir?" a rusty voice whispered close by.

"I am, Williams," David replied; "I have been waiting for some time."

Williams chuckled, making no kind of apology for his want of punctuality.

"I've been looking after our man, sir," he said. "That Dutch chap what Miss Enid said you'd
come for. And I saw all that business in the shrubbery just now. My! if I didn't feel good
when you laid out Henson on the grass. The sound of that smack was as good as ten years' wages
for me. And he's gone off to his room with a basin of vinegar and a ream of brown paper. Why
didn't you break his neck?"

David suggested that the law took a prejudiced view of that kind of thing, and that it would
be a pity to hang anyone for such a creature as Reginald Henson.

"Our man is all right?" he asked.

"As a trivet," said Williams. "Sleeping like a baby; he is in my own bed over the stable. I'll
show you into the harness-room, where Miss Enid's waiting for you, sir, and then I'll go and
see as Henson don't come prowling about. Not as he's likely to, considering the clump on the
side of the head you gave him. I take it kind of Providence to let me see that!"

Williams hobbled away, chuckling to himself and followed by David. There was a feeble oil-lamp
in the harness-room. Enid was waiting there anxiously.

"So you have put Henson out of the way for a time," she said. "He passed me just now using
awful language, and wondering how it had all come about. Wasn't it a strange thing that Van
Sneck should come here?"

"Not very," David said. "He is evidently looking for his master, Reginald Henson. I have not
the slightest doubt that he has been here many times before. Williams says he is asleep. Pity
to wake him just yet, don't you think?"

"Perhaps it is. But I am horribly afraid of our dear friend Reginald, all the same."

"Our dear Reginald will not trouble us just yet. He came down as far as London with Bell. Of
course he had heard the news of Van Sneck's flight. Was he disturbed?"

"I have never seen him in such a passion before, Mr. Steel. And not only was he in a passion,
but he was horribly afraid about something. And he has made a discovery."

"He hasn't found out that your sister--"

"Is at Littimer Castle? That is really the most consoling part of the business. He has been
at Littimer for a day or two, and he has not the remotest idea that Christabel Lee is our Chris."

"A feather in your sister's cap. She has quite captivated Littimer, Bell says."

"And she played her part splendidly. Mr. Steel, it is very, very good to know that Hatherly
has cleared himself in the eyes of Lord Littimer at last. Did Reginald suspect--"

"Nothing," Steel said. "He is utterly and hopelessly puzzled over the whole business. And Bell
has managed to convince him that he is not suspected at all. That business over the Rembrandt
was really a brilliant bit of comedy. But what has Henson found out?"

"That Chris is not dead. He has seen Walker and the undertaker. But he does not know yet that
Dr. Bell was in the house that eventful night, which is a blessing. As a matter of fact, Reginald
has not been quite the same man since Rollo nearly killed him that exciting evening. His nerves
seem to be greatly shaken."

"That is because the rascal feels the net closing round him," Steel said. "It was a fine stroke
on your sister's part to win over that fellow Merritt to her side. I supplied the details per
telephone, but the plot was really Miss Chris's. How on earth should we have managed without
the telephone over this business?"

"I am at a loss to say," Enid smiled. "But tell me about that plot. I am quite in the dark
as to that side of the matter."

David proceeded to explain his own and Chris's ingenious scheme for getting Merritt into their
power. Enid followed the story with vast enjoyment, tempered with the fact that Henson was so near.

"I should never have thought of that," she said; "but Chris was always so clever. But tell
me, what was Henson doing in the garden just now? Williams says he was illtreating my aunt,
but that seems hardly possible even for Reginald."

"It was over a ring that Mrs. Henson had," David explained. "She was running away with it,
and Henson was trying to get it back. You see--"

"A ring!" Enid gasped. "Did you happen to see it? Oh, if it is only--. But he would not be
so silly as that. A ring is the cause of all the trouble. Did you see it?"

"I not only saw it but I have it in my possession," David replied.

Enid turned up the flaring little lamp with a shaking hand. Quite unstrung, she held out her
fingers for the ring.

"It is just possible," she said, hoarsely, "that you possess the key of the situation. If that
ring is what I hope it is we can tumble Henson into the dust to-morrow. We can drive him out
of the country, and he will never, never trouble us again. How did you get it?"

"Mrs. Henson dropped it and I picked it up."

"Please let me see it," Enid said, pleadingly. "Let me be put out of my misery."

David handed the ring over; Enid regarded it long and searchingly. With a little sigh of regret
she passed it back to David once more.

"You had better keep it," she said. "At any rate, it is likely to be valuable evidence for
us later on. But it is not the ring I hoped to see. It is a clever copy, but the black pearls
are not so fine, and the engraving inside is not so worn as it used to be on the original.
It is evidently a copy that Henson has had made to tease my aunt with, to offer her at some
future date in return for the large sums of money that she gave him. No; the original of that
ring is popularly supposed to be at the bottom of the North Sea. If such had been the case--seeing
that Henson had never handled it before the Great Tragedy came--the original must be in existence."

"Why so?" David asked.

"Because the ring must have been copied from it," Enid said. "It is a very faithful copy indeed,
and could not have been made from mere directions--take the engraving inside, for instance.
The engraving forms the cipher of the house of Littimer, If Henson has the real ring, if we
can find it, the tragedy goes out of our lives for ever."

"I should like to hear the story," said Steel.

Enid paused and lowered the lamp as a step was heard outside. But it was only Williams.

"Mr. Henson is in his bedroom still," he said. "I've just taken him the cigars. He's got a
lump on his head as big as a billiard-ball. Thinks he hit it against a branch. And my lady
have locked herself in her room and refused to see anybody."

"Go and look at our patient," Enid commanded.

Williams disappeared, to return presently with the information that Van Sneck was still fast
asleep and lying very peacefully.

"Looks like waiting till morning, it do," he said. "And now I'll go back and keep my eye on
that 'ere distinguished philanthropist."

Williams disappeared, and Enid turned up the lamp again. Her face was pale and resolute. She
motioned David towards a chair.

"I'll tell you the story," she said. "I am going to confide in you the saddest and strangest
tale that ever appealed to an imaginative novelist."

CHAPTER XLIV

ENID SPEAKS

"I am going to tell you the story of the great sorrow that has darkened all our lives, but
I shall have to go a long way back to do it," Enid said. "I go back to the troublous day of
Charles, as far back as the disastrous fight at Naseby. Of course I am speaking more from a
Royalist point of view, for the Littimers were always followers of the Court.

"Mind you, there is doubtless a deal that is legendary about what I am going to tell you. But
the ring given to my ancestor Rupert Littimer by Prince Rupert himself is an actuality.

"Naseby was over, and, so the legend goes, Prince Rupert found himself desperately situated
and in dire peril of capture by Cromwell's troops, under one Colonel Carfax, a near neighbour
of Rupert Littimer; indeed, the Carfax estates still run parallel with the property round Littimer
Castle.

"Now, Carfax was hated by all those who were attached to the fortunes of the King. Seeing that
he was of aristocratic birth, it was held that he had violated his caste and creed by taking
sides with the Roundheads. History has told us that he was right, and that the Cavaliers, picturesque
as they were, were fighting a dubious cause. But I need not go into that. Carfax was a hard,
stern man who spared nobody, and many were the stories told of his cruelty.

"He and Rupert Littimer were especially at daggers drawn. I believe that both of them had been
in love with the same woman or something of that kind. And the fact that she did not marry
either made little difference to the bitterness between them.

"Well, Carfax was pressing close on Rupert, so close, indeed, that unless some strategy were
adopted the brilliant cavalry leader was in dire peril. It was there that my ancestor, Rupert
Littimer, came forward with his scheme. He offered to disguise himself and go into the camp
of Carfax and take him prisoner. The idea was to steal into the tent of Carfax and, by threatening
him with his life, compel him to issue certain orders, the result of which would be that Prince
Rupert could get away.

"'You will never come back again, friend,' the Prince said.

"Rupert Littimer said he was prepared to run all risk of that. 'And if I do die you shall tell
my wife, sir,' he said. 'And when the child is born, tell him that his father died as he should
have done for his King and for his country.'"

"'Oh, there is a child coming?' Rupert asked.

"Littimer replied that for aught he knew he was a father already. And then he went his way
into the camp of the foe with his curls cut short and in the guise of a countryman who comes
with valuable information. And, what is more, he schemed his way into Carfax's tent, and at
the point of a dagger compelled him to write a certain order which my ancestor's servant, who
accompanied him, saw carried into effect, and so the passage for Prince Rupert was made free."

"The ruse would have succeeded all round but for some little accident that I need not go into
now. Rupert Littimer was laid by the heels, his disguise was torn off, and he stood face to
face with his hereditary foe. He was told that he had but an hour to live."

"'If you have any favour to ask, say it,' Carfax said.

"'I have no favour to ask, properly so-called,' Littimer replied; 'but I am loth to die without
knowing whether or not I have left anybody to succeed me--anybody who will avenge the crime
upon you and yours in the years to come. Let me go as far as Henson Grange, and I pledge you
my word I will return in the morning!'

"But Carfax laughed the suggestion to scorn. The Court party were all liars and perjurers,
and their word was not to be taken.

"'It is as I say,' Rupert Littimer repeated. 'My wife lies ill at Henson Grange and in sore
trouble about me. And I should like to see my child before I die.'

"'Then you shall have the chance,' Carfax sneered. 'I will keep you a close prisoner here for
two days, and if at the end of that time nothing happens, you die. If, on the other hand, a
child is born to you, then you shall go from here a free man.'

"And so the compact was made. Unfortunately or fortunately, as the case may be, the story got
abroad, and some indiscreet person carried the news to Dame Littimer. Ill as she was, she insisted
upon getting up and going over to Carfax's camp at once. She had barely reached there before--well,
long ere Rupert Littimer's probation was over, he was the father of a noble boy. They say that
the Roundheads made a cradle for the child out of a leather breastplate, and carried it in
triumph round the camp. And they held the furious Carfax to his word, and the story spread
and spread until it came to the ears of Prince Rupert.

"Then he went to see Dame Littimer, and from his own hand he drew what is known in our family
as Prince Rupert's ring. He placed it on Dame Littimer's hand, there to remain for a year and
a day, and when the year was up it was to be put aside for the bride of the heir of the house
for ever, to be worn by her till a year and a day had elapsed after her first child was born.
And that has been done for all time, my aunt, Lady Littimer, being the last to wear it. After
Frank was born it was put carefully away for his bride. But the great tragedy came, and until
lately we fancied that the ring was lost to us for ever. There is, in a few words, the story
of Prince Rupert's ring. So far it is quite common property."

Enid ceased to speak for a time. But it was evident that she had more to say.

