At the ninth annual meeting, held at Oswego, Mrs. Burt was elected president; and in her first
annual address she recommended the establishing of a state paper. The recommendation was adapted,
and in December of that year the first number was issued. The paper was called Woman's Christian
Temperance Work. This proved to be too lengthy a name, and so it was shortened to Our Work.
Miss Margaret E. Winslow was editor and Mrs. C. C. Alford publisher, and through their efforts
over thirteen hundred subscribers were secured before it reached its first birthday. In 1887
the name was changed to Woman's Temperance Work, its present name. This motto for the state
paper was chosen when the paper was first decided upon: "O woman, great is thy faith; be it
unto thee even as thou wilt."

In 1884 the establishment of headquarters was recommended, and in 1886 the recommendation was
adopted, and rented headquarters were secured in New York City, with Mrs. R. A. Thurston, of
Poughkeepsie, as office secretary, her duties to include the publication of the state paper.
Mrs. Thurston was also made organizing secretary, and did valiant work as such for several
years. New York is the only state which has had an organizing secretary--a fact which is worthy
of note. Previous to Mrs. Thurston's appointment, Mrs. E. H. Griffith, of Fairport, had done
splendid work as organizing secretary, in connection with her work as state corresponding secretary.
In 1887 Mrs. C. C. Shaffer, of Newburgh, was made office secretary, and in 1888 Mrs. Ella C.
Viele was appointed, and continued as editor and publisher for two years. She was succeeded
by Miss Julia E. Dailey, of Rochester, in 1891, who still holds the office, doing faithful work.

In 1888 the president recommended that steps be taken to secure permanent headquarters. A committee
was appointed to consider the recommendation and plans were presented for raising funds. The
committee was continued with instructions to keep the matter before the people.

Evidently the white-ribboners believe not only in "praying," but in "watching" also, for in
1884 Mrs. Burt was presented with a beautiful gold watch as a testimonial of her years of service,
first as recording secretary, then as corresponding secretary, and after that as president.
In 1886 Miss Julia Colman was "watched" in the same manner, this being the tenth anniversary
of her superintendency of the Literature Department; and in 1888, at Binghamton, the convention
"set a watch" upon Mrs. G. M. Gardenier, the recording secretary. An elegant gold chain was
added by the executive committee. These facts show on the "face" of them that all "hands" approve
of "watchfulness."

In 1888 a handbook was prepared by a committee composed of Mrs. Ella A. Boole, Mrs. Helen L.
Bullock, and Mrs. E. H. Griffith, which proved very helpful to the workers. The following year
it was revised and enlarged, thus making it applicable to other states.

At Auburn two receptions were given the convention--one by the Young Men's Christian Association,
and one in the historic home of William H. Seward.

In Elmira the convention was invited to visit the art gallery of Mr. M. H. Arnot.

While the twenty-first annual convention does not properly belong to a twenty-years history,
still we feel it is fitting to mention here that we celebrated our majority by "going home"
to Chautauqua county, the meeting being held at Jamestown; and while it is not the intention
to report that meeting here, we desire to record the fact that, by vote of this convention,
New York State claims as its own the honor of the first crusade, and of the first Woman's Christian
Temperance Union ever organized. Never have we been more royally entertained than in Jamestown.
The Woman's and Young Woman's Christian Associations, the Political Equality Club, and the
Woman's Relief Corps gave us an elegant reception the first day, and on the day following the
close of the convention, through the generosity of the local Woman's Christian Temperance Union,
we were taken up the lake on a steamer to the far-famed Chautauqua Assembly grounds, the place
from which was issued the "crusade call" to the women of the country to convene at Cleveland,
Ohio, in November, 1874.

NATIONAL BANNERS.

In 1887 New York State received, through the president, a handsome banner presented by the
national union at Nashville as a reward for the largest membership of any state in the Union,
and in 1890 we received the beautiful prize banner awarded by Miss Willard at Atlanta to the
state making the largest increase in membership, New York being first in the Middle States.
At the Denver convention, in 1892, New York was again awarded the national prize banner for
the largest percentage of increase in membership.

In 1893 our state received two other national banners--one from Miss Lucia F. Kimball, national
superintendent of Sunday-school Work, for returning the largest number of signed autograph
pledge cards for the World's Fair, and the other from Mrs. Mary H. Hunt, national superintendent
of the Department of Scientific Temperance Instruction, for having the largest number of local
superintendents of this department of any State in the Union.

STATE BANNERS.

In 1889 Mrs. Ella C. Viele, publisher of our state paper, Woman's Temperance Work, presented
a banner to the county having the largest subscription list from January to September. Dutchess
county captured the prize, holding it until 1892, when Steuben received it; but in 1893 Dutchess
county came to the front and again claimed it for its own.

PRESIDENT'S PRIZE BANNERS.

Through the generosity of our president, the state has five banners which are awarded each
year to the counties showing the greatest increase in membership. The state is divided into
four tiers--northern, southern, eastern, and western--and a banner goes to the county in each
division which has rolled up the greatest increase. The fifth banner is for the Y's, and is
awarded to the county which has gained most in Y. membership, regardless of location.

The Loyal Temperance Legion also has a beautiful banner, which was first presented in 1891
to Suffolk county for having gained most in the number of Loyal Temperance Legions during the year.

These banners are each held for one year, being then brought to the annual meeting and "passed
along" or held over again, as the case may be.

EXHIBITS.

In 1885 our state was represented at the World's Exposition at New Orleans by a beautiful banner,
and that we were worthily represented is shown by the fact that to this banner was awarded
the first honorable mention.

The exhibit sent by our state to the Columbian Exposition, and which was placed in the Woman's
Christian Temperance Union exhibit, was a beautiful banner, five feet wide by seven feet in
length, of dark blue silk, telling in large gilt letters the name of our organization, with
legend of our membership, W. and Y., and honorary members; also the number of members of the
Loyal Temperance Legion, the location of headquarters, and name of state paper. It also gave
the laws which have been secured through the state's instrumentality. A sketch of the state
work was also prepared for the historical work published by the Chicago World Book Company,
and for the encyclopaedia published by the Board of Lady Managers of the World's Columbian
Commission.

SUMMER MEETINGS.

In 1883 our state for the first time held summer meetings--one at Thousand Island Park and
one at Round Lake, both being well attended.

