PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

August 6, 1892.

DRURIOLANUS IN (MUSIC) AULIS.

The Augustan Age is to be revived at the new Palace Theatre of Varieties, late CARTE's English
Opera House, for two of the imperial name of AUGUSTUS are foremost among the Directors of this
new enterprise--which word "enterprise" is preferable to "undertaking." Sir AUGUSTUS leads;
and GEORGIUS AUGUSTUS follows in the cast as Second Director,--with or without song is not
mentioned. In comparison with this transformation of an Opera House into a Theatre of Varieties,
no political combination of any sort or kind, no change either in the Ministry or in our home
or foreign policy, is so likely to cause trouble to The Empire; i.e., the Empire in Leicester
Square.

We understand that Sir AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS, in addition to his interest in Covent Garden,
Drury Lane, the Royal English Opera House, and various enterprises in town, country, and abroad,
is about to turn his attention to other matters. On dit that he is in treaty for St. Paul's
Cathedral, Westminster Abbey, and the City Temple, for a series of Sunday Oratorios. It is
also not improbable that he may become, for a short time, Lessee of Exeter Hall, Buckingham
Palace, and the Banqueting-hall of Hampton Court, for a series of Popular Picture-Shows. No
doubt he will bring from Russia a new and entire Cosmopolitan Opera Company, to give a performance
on the top of the Monument. Should there be an overflow, the audience turned away will be accommodated
with seats in the Duke of York's Column. He is said to be in negociation for novelties for
next year's London Season in various parts of the globe. It is possible that he may bring over
the entire "World's Show" from Chicago, to give a solitary performance on an eligible spot
recently acquired for this purpose in the neighbourhood of Primrose Hill. It is not unlikely
that he may re-erect the ancient Pyramids at the back of Olympia, if satisfactory arrangements
can be made with the Egyptian Government. Looking to the future, it is asserted that he has
undertaken to accept the stage-direction of the next European War with those nations bound
together in the Treaty of the Triple Alliance. Further--DRURIOLANUS MAXIMUS is considering
the transport to London of the North Pole, laying the Zoological Gardens under contribution
for a service of bears to climb it. Sir DRURIOLANUS mustn't overdo it. He holds a handful of
cards, but he is so good a prestidigitateur that he is pretty sure to transform them into trumps.
Likewise Sir DRURIO knows how to perform on the Trump of Fame.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOAST--We beg to propose the health of the liberal-minded purchaser of the Althorp Library,
who intends to keep the books in a building open to all readers, adapting the toastmaster's
phrase for the occasion, and giving, "Our Noble Shelves!"

       *       *       *       *       *

LAYS OF MODERN HOME.

NO. 4.--CHLOE'S APPROPRIATION CLAWS.

  A ye who bless the wedded state
    With tributes born of generous blindness,
  Bemourn the fate that well may wait
          Your gifted kindness.

  My CHLOE's ultra-modern mind
  Transforms your Dresden's grace and Chelsea's,
  The toys for special use designed,
          To something else's.

  For CHLOE reads each weekly print,
    Where Art's resource is blent with Scandal's,
  Where decorative females hint
          Their cure for Vandals.

  Your large, expensive Wedgwood bowls,
    She bids her "Lor!"-exclaiming waitress
  To cram with large, expensive coals,
          The pretty traitress!

  On daintiest overmantel's ledge
    She sets enshrined your prosy platter;
  Your salt-cellars she stocks with veg-
          etable matter.

  And when the Summer comes (if hail
    For once not hails the sunny swallows)
  Our fenders hold your statues pale
          Of chipped Apollos.

  With out-of-fashion toilet sets,
    Their sprigs of ringstands, bits of boxes,
  She picturesques her cabinet's
          Quaint heterodoxies.

  My blue tobacco-jar she'll hoard
    For party-nights, and on the basket
  Whereon my manuscripts are stored
          Will throne--a casket!

  "Ingenious" CHLOE, sure, opines
    Is Genius' proper derivation;
  "Appropriate" with her defines
          Appropriation.

  Poor STREPHON, fond, bewildered wight!
    He doubts, amazed by changes showy,
  If CHLOE's own be STREPHON quite,
          Or STREPHON's, CHLOE!

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRDS OF A FEATHER.

    ["He (Mr. GLADSTONE) has not as yet even secured the spoil,
    but the Vultures are already gathered together."--Mr.
    Chamberlain at Birmingham.]

  The Vultures, dear JOE? Nay, it needs no apology
  To say you are out in your new ornithology.
  The Vultures are carrion-birds, be it said;
  And the Man and the Cause you detest are not dead!
  Much as his decease was desired, he's alive,
  And the Cause is no carcase. So, JOE, you must strive
  To get nearer the truth. Shall we help you? All fowls
  Are not Vultures. For instance, dear JOE, there are Owls,
  (Like JESSE) and Ravens much given to croaking,
  (in Ulster they're noisy, though some think they're joking),
  Then Parrots are plentiful everywhere, JOE,
  (They keep on repeating your chatter, you know,
  As they did in the days when you railed about ransom;
  But Parrots are never wise birds, JOE, though handsome);
  Then Geese, Jays, and Daws; yet they're birds of a feather,
  And they, my dear JOSEPH, are gathered together,
  To hiss, squeal and peck at the Party they'd foil,
  But who're like to secure--as you phrase it--"the spoil."
  Yes, these be the birds most en évidence now;
  And by Jingo, my JOE, they are raising a row.
  They're full of cacophonous fuss, and loud spite;
  And they don't take their licking as well as they might.
  In fact, they're a rather contemptible crew;
  And--well, of which species, dear JOSEPH, are you?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"L'HOMME PROPOSE--."

    [Gentlemen are now coached "How to Propose."]

  They sat it out upon the stairs,
    Those dear old stairs! Ah me; how many
  A time they've cost, all unawares,
            A pretty penny!

  Why they were fools enough to go
    To sit on stairs, and miss the fun,
  Quite baffles me; but still, you know,
            It has been done.

  The lights were low--lights often are--
    I deem the fact though worth the noting,
  And strains of music from afar
            Came softly floating.

  So whilst she pondered what Mamma
    Would think, the band commenced to play
  The epidemical "Ta-ra-
            ra-boom-de-ay!"

  He gazed into her eyes (of blue),
    Sighed once as if it hurt him badly,
  Then told her how 'twas but too true
            He loved her madly.

  With highly creditable skill
    He turned the well-worn platitude--
  His own unworthiness  until
            You really could

  Not but admire each word, each look.
    His speech was quite unrivalled in its
  Intensity--in fact it took
            At least ten minutes.

  A peroration full of flowers,
    A moisture in his other eye,
  And then a pause--it seemed of hours--
            For her reply.

  Her answer came. He thought of it,
    It haunted him for long years after,
  She simply burst into a fit
            Of ribald laughter.

  And certainly it was absurd,
    She laughed till she could laugh no more;
  She'd heard the same thing, to a word,
            The day before.

  Two tyros in the Art of Love,
    Each ARABELLA's ardent suitor,
  Unluckily were pupils of
            The self-same tutor!

  So, should you fail to understand
    A maiden's answer, this may show
  Why sometimes Man proposes and
            The Girl says "No!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SKIRTS AND FIGURES.--M. JACOBI, of the Alhambra, has composed a "Skirt-dance," which has recently
appeared in the Figaro. That the skirts for which the Composer has written are brand-new, and
require no mending, is evident from the fact that, from first to last, there is no "Skirt-sew"--in
Italian, Scherzo--movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROLLICKING SHOW.

In the International Horticultural Exhibition is, as advertised, "the Kiosk of the Australian
Irrigation Colonies (CHAFFEY Bros.)." What fun the CHAFFEY Brothers must make of everything
in the Exhibition! As long as the other exhibitors don't mind the chaff of the CHAFFEY Brothers,
all will be harmonious. No doubt, round their Kiosk there are crowds all day, in roars of laughter,
at the chaffing perpetually going on. The travelling Cheap Jack, were he in the building, would
have some difficulty to hold his own against even one of the CHAFFEY Brothers, but pitted against
an unlimited number of CHAFFEY Brothers, for their number is not stated in the advertisement,
the unfortunate Cheap Jack would not be let, off cheaply. Apart from BUFFALO BILL, whose Show
with a variety of novelties, is still a very big attraction, and the other amusements, this
exhibit of CHAFFEY Brothers engaged in chaff-cutting, must be about one of the most attractive
things in the Horticultural. By the way, in this same advertisement, there is a mysterious
announcement "Stand 48." Of course, if in addition to their entertainment, they "stand 48 "--though
with this vintage we are not acquainted; perhaps it should be '84 Pommery,--then the Brothers
are simply hors de concours, and competition would be hopeless.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VERY PLACE FOR THE NEXT SPARRING MATCH.--"Box Hill."

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE SANDS.

(A SKETCH AT MARGATE.)

    Close under the Parade Watt a large circle has been formed,
    consisting chiefly of Women on chairs and camp-stools, with an
    inner ring of small children, who are all patiently awaiting
    the arrival of a troupe of Niggers. At the head of one of
    the flights of steps leading up to the Parade, a small and
    shrewish Child-nurse is endeavouring to detect and recapture
    a pair of prodigal younger Brothers, who have given her the
    slip.

Sarah (to herself). Wherever can them two plegs have got to? (Aloud; drawing a bow at a venture)
ALBERT! 'ENERY! Come up 'ere this minnit. I see yer!

'Enery (under the steps--to Albert). I say--d'ye think she do?--'cos if--

Albert. Not she! Set tight. [They sit tight.]

Sarah (as before). 'ENERY! ALBERT! You've bin and 'alf killed little GEORGIE between yer!

'Enery (moved, to Albert). Did you 'ear that, BERT? It wasn't me upset him--was it now?

Albert (impenitent). 'Oo cares! The Niggers'll be back direckly.

Sarah. AL-BERT! 'ENERY! Your father's bin down 'ere once after you. You'll ketch it!

Albert (sotto voce). Not till Father ketches us, we shan't. Keep still, 'ENERY--we're all right
under 'ere!

Sarah (more diplomatically). 'ENERY! ALBERT! Father's bin and left a 'ap'ny apiece for yer.
Ain't yer comin' up for it? If yer don't want it, why, stay where you are, that's all!

Albert (to 'Enery). I knoo we 'adn't done nothin'. An' I'm goin' up to git that ap'ny, I am.

'Enery. So'm I. [They emerge, and ascend the steps--to be pounced upon immediately by the ingenious
SARAH.

Sarah. 'Ap'ny, indeed! You won't git no 'apence 'ere, I can tell yer--so jest you come along
'ome with me!

    [Exeunt ALBERT and 'ENERY, in captivity, as the Niggers
    enter the circle.

Bones. We shall commence this afternoon by 'olding our Grand Annual Weekly Singing Competition,
for the Discouragement of Youthful Talent. Now then, which is the little gal to step out first
and git a medal? (The Children giggle, but remain seated.) Not one? Now I arsk you--What is
the use o' me comin' 'ere, throwin' away thousands and thousands of pounds on golden medals,
if you won't take the trouble to stand up and sing for them? Oh, you'll make me so wild, I
shall begin spittin' 'alf-sovereigns directly--I know I shall! (A little Girl in a sun-bonnet
comes forward.) Ah, 'ere's a young lady who's bustin' with melody, I can see. Your name, my
dear? Ladies and Gentleman, I have the pleasure to announce that Miss CONNIE COCKLE will now
appear. Don't curtsey till the Orchestra gives the chord. (Chord from the harmonium--the Child
advances, and curtsies with much aplomb.) Oh, lor! call that a curtsey--that's a cramp, that
is! Do it all over again! (The Child obeys, disconcerted.) That's worse! I can see the s'rimps
blushin' for yer inside their paper bags! Now see Me do it. (Bones executes a caricature of
a curtsey, which the little Girl copies with terrible fidelity.) That's ladylike--that's genteel.
Now sing out! (The Child sings the first verse of a popular Music-hall song, in a squeaky little
voice.) Talk about nightingales! Come 'ere, and receive the reward for extinguished incapacity.
On your knees! (The little Girl kneels before him while a tin medal is fastened upon her frock.)
Rise, Sir CONNIE COCKLE! Oh, you lucky girl!

    The Child returns, swelling with triumph, to her companions,
    several of whom come out, and go through the same performance,
    with more or less squeakiness and self-possession.

First Admiring Matron (in audience). I do like to see the children kep' out o' mischief like
this, instead o' goin' paddling and messing about the sands!

Second Ad. Mat. Just what I say, my dear--they're amused and edjucated 'ow to beyave at the
same time!

First Politician (with the "Standard"). No, but look here--when GLADSTONE was asked in the
House whether he proposed to give the Dublin Parliament the control of the Police, what was
his answer? Why....

The Niggers (striking up chorus). "Rum-tumty-diddly-umpty-doodah dey! Rum-tumty--diddly--um,"
was all that he could say! And the Members and the Speaker joined together in the lay. Of "Rum--tumty-diddly-umty
doodah-dey!"

Second Pol. (with the "Star"). Well, and what more would you have 'ad him say? Come, now!

Alf. (who has had quite enough ale at dinner--to his fiancée). These Niggers ain't up to much,
Loo. Can't sing for nuts!

Chorley (his friend--perfidiously). You'd better go in and show 'em how, old man. Me and Miss
SERGE'll stay and see you take the shine out of 'em!

Alf. P'raps you think I can't. But, if I was to go upon the 'Alls now, I should make my fortune
in no time! Loo's 'eard me when I've been in form, and she'll tell you--

Miss Serge. Well, I will say there's many a professional might learn a lesson from ALF--whether
Mr. PERKINS believes it or not.

    [Cuttingly, to "CHOH-LEY."

Chorley. Now reelly, Miss Loo, don't come down on a feller like that. I want to see him do
you credit, that's all, and he couldn't 'ave a better opportunity to distinguish himself--now
could he?

Miss Serge. I'm not preventing him. But I don't know--these niggers keep themselves very select,
and they might object to it.

Alf. I'll soon square them. You keep your eye on me, and I'll make things a bit livelier! [He
enters the Circle.

Miss Serge (admiringly). He has got a cheek, I must say! Look at him, dancing there along with
those two Niggers--they don't hardly know what to make of him yet!

Chorley. Do you notice how they keep kicking him beyind on the sly like? I wonder he puts up
with it!

Miss S. He'll be even with them presently--you see if he isn't.

    [ALF attempts to twirl a tambourine on his finger, and lets
    it fall; derision from audience; Bones pats him on the head,
    and takes the tambourine away--at which ALF only smiles
    feebly.

Chorley. It's a pity he gets so 'ot dancing, and he don't seem to keep in step with the others.

Miss S. (secretly disappointed). He isn't used to doing the double-shuffle on sand, that's all.

The Conductor. Bones, I observe we have a recent addition to our Company. Perhaps he'll favour
us with a solo. (Aside to Bones.) 'Oo is he? 'Oo let him in 'ere--you?

Bones. I dunno. I thought you did. Ain't he stood nothing?

Conductor. Not a brass farden!

Bones (outraged). All right, you leave him to me. (To ALF.) Kin it be? That necktie! them familiar
coat-buttons! that paper-dicky! You are--you are my long-lost Convick Son, 'ome from Portland!
Come to these legs! (He embraces ALF, and smothers him with kisses.) Oh, you've been and rubbed
off some of your cheek on my complexion--you dirty boy! (He playfully "bashes" ALF's hat in.)
Now show the comp'ny how pretty you can sing. (ALF attempts a Music-hall ditty, in which he,
not unnaturally, breaks down.) It ain't my son's fault, Ladies and Gentlemen, it's all this
little gal in front here, lookin' at him and makin' him shy! (To a small Child, severely.)
You oughter know worse, you ought! (Clumps of sea-weed and paper-balls are thrown at ALF, who
by this time is looking deplorably warm and foolish.) Oh, what a popilar fav'rite he is to be sure!

Charley (to Miss S.). Poor fellow, he ain't no match 'for those Niggers--not like he is now!
Hadn't I better go to the rescue, Miss Loo?

Miss S. (pettishly). I'm sure I don't care what you do.

    ["CHORLEY" succeeds, after some persuasion, in removing the
    unfortunate ALF.

Alf. (rejoining his fiancée with a grimy face, a smashed hat, and a pathetic attempt at a grin).
Well? I done it, you see!

Miss S. (crushingly). Yes, you have done it! And the best thing you can do now, is to go home
and wash your face. I don't care to be seen about with a laughing-stock, I can assure you!
I've had my dignity lowered quite enough as it is!

Alf. But look 'ere, my dear girl, I can't leave you here all by yourself, you know!

Miss S. I daresay Mr. PERKINS will take care of me.

    [Mr. P. assents, with effusion.

Alf. (watching them move away--with bitterness). I wish all Niggers were put down by Act of
Parliament, I do! Downright noosances--that's what they are!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Ulysses has been travelling again, and the record of his journeyings is set forth in The Modern
Odyssey, which CASSELL & Co. publish in one volume, with some charming illustrations in callotype.

My Baronite notes a quaint disposition on the part of the old gentleman to begin at the very
beginning. Thus, when he lands in New York, he furnishes a brief account of COLUMBUS, and how
he came to discover America. The early history of Australia, and eke of China, are dealt with
in the same instructive manner. This is all very well for ULYSSES, who comes fresh on the scene,
and learns for the first time all about the Genoese, about Captain COOK, and how "a little
more than a century ago eleven ships sailed from England," anchored in the Bay where now Sydney
stands, and--strange to say!--did not find a populous city, but only green fields and a river
running into the sea. Pour nous autres, age has somewhat withered the bloom of this story,
and it might have been left peacefully slumbering in the Encyclopædias. But it can be skipped,
and, for the rest, there will be found a swift succession of pictures of life and scenery in
the Greater Britain that girdles the world. ULYSSES must have been much struck with the change
since he first went a gipsying. But of that he discreetly says nothing.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

WE'VE GOT OUR LYNX EYE ON HIM!--In the Times' legal reports for Tuesday, July 26, 1892, Queen's
Bench Division, Colonel FITZGEORGE sued a Mr. ROLLS CALVERT LINK. Mr. CANNOT defended LINK.
But CANNOT Could Not do much for his client LINK, who did not appear. Evidently, "The Missing
Link."

       *       *       *       *       *

"COURT ON!"

The "Triple Bill" still going strong at the Court. The New Sub, a smartly-written little One-Act
Play, by SEYMOUR HICKS, notable for good performance all round, but especially for the rendering
of Mrs. Darlington, by Miss GERTRUDE KINGSTON, of Major Ensor, by BRANDON THOMAS, and of Second-Lieutenant
Darlington, by Mr. ERNEST BERTRAM--uncommonly Earnest BERTRAM. The Scene is in a Hut at Shorncliffe.
Hutcætera. If Lieutenant Crookendon's catch--phrase about "a funny world" were repeated just
about five times less frequently than it is, the piece, the part, and the public would be distinctly
gainers.

At 9:10, appears Faithful James, represented by Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH. It is a finished and
quietly droll performance. The author, Mr. B.C. STEPHENSON ("B.C." makes him quite a classic--date
uncertain, so his plot may have been done in collaboration, with PLAUTUS or TERENCE) has reproduced
from the French a neatly-constructed One-Act piece, in which are all the possibilities of a
Three-Act Criterion or Palais Royal Farcical Comedy. So rapid is the action, all over in about
forty-five minutes, and so much to the point of the plot is the dialogue, that an inattentive
auditor would soon lose the thread of the argument, never to pick it up again anywhere. Miss
ELLALINE TERRIS is just that very Mrs. Duncan. BRANDON THOMAS is a breezy, brusque, and Admirable
Admiral; and Mr. DRAYCOTT a hearty husband, very much in love with his pretty little wife.
Mr. LITTLE makes much, perhaps almost a Little too much, of his small but essentially important
part,--they are all important parts,--and of Miss SYBIL GREY can be said "Nous savons Gré à
Mlle. Sybil." Mr. SIDNEY WARDEN's Character Sketch of the young and rather raw German Waiter,
is excellent; the Waiter being "raw," is not overdone. Not a dull second in the farce. Will
our B.C. Author give us some of his adaptations from PLAUTUS, TERENCE (some good old Irish
plots of course, in the writings of this author), and a few other ancients with whom he was,
it is most probable, personally and intimately acquainted. To think that the Wandering Jew,
who can only sign himself "A.D.", is "not in it" in point of time with our STEPHENSON "B.C."!

After this comes the Pantomime Rehearsal, which everybody should see, and which nearly everybody
must have seen by this time. Success to the Triple Bill, which, in the political world, might
mean Sir WILLIAM HARCOURT and WILLIAM GLADSTONE, the latter WILLIAM "counting two on a division."

       *       *       *       *       *

EXACT.--"He is something in the Church," said Mrs. R., trying to describe the social position
of a clerical friend of hers. "I forget what it is, but it's a something like 'Dromedary;'
only, you needn't smile, of course I know it couldn't be that, as a Dromedary has two humps
on his back. Or, stop!" she exclaimed, suddenly, "am I confusing him with a Minor Camel?"

       *       *       *       *       *

 becos they're low!"

CHORUS.

    "Wot cher!" all the neighbours cried.
      "Who're yer goin' to meet, BILL?
      'Ave yer bought the street, BILL?"
    Missus, she the Shamrock waved with pride.
    Knock'd 'em in the West-min-is-ter Road!

  Some sez werry soon the moke'll stop;
  Not hup to our weight, but bound ter drop.
  No use whackin' 'im with pole or prop,
    'Cos the warmint wasn't made to go.
  Well, it ain't hexact a four-in-'and;
  But me and the Missus hunderstand,
  If we drive together we shall "land,"
    Wich to Tory toffs'll be a blow.
    Win? You bet! with BIDDY by my side.
    Knock'd in the West-min-is-ter Road!

  Wait till arter August four or five!
  Me and Missus, we will take a drive.
  Toffs say, "Wonderful they're still alive!"
    You shall see that little Donkey go!
  I'll soon show 'em wot we mean to do;
  Just wot my old Missus wants me to;
  And in spite of all that rowdy crew,
    'Ollerin' "Woa! Steady! Neddy, woa!"
    Laugh? We'll make 'em laugh on 'tother side,
    And knock 'em in the West-min-is-ter Road!

[Footnote 1: The Hibernian lady doubtless means "Broughams."]

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUNTEER VITTICISM.--Definition of "Marksmen"--Writers on the Financial News.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALONE IN LONDON!

    I found her crouching in the lonely street;
  Scarce six years' old she was: Her little feet
  Were worn with endless pacing, up and down,
  And round and round the cruel thoughtless town.
  Her limbs were shrunk, and in her large round eyes
  The light of coming madness seemed to rise.
  No word she spoke, but sat, a prey to scorn,
  Forsaken, friendless, feeble and forlorn.

    And, as I pondered on her sorry tale,
  One weird, unearthly, melancholy wail,
  Broke from her lips:--a cry of agony,
  Of hopeless, mad, despairing misery:
  Then grim starvation on her little head
  Laid his cold fingers, and she fell back dead!

    I raised her tenderly with pitying arms,
  And in a garden, far from Life's alarms,
  I buried her, and left her all alone,
  And wrote this epitaph upon the stone:--
  "Peace to her ashes, but not peace to those,
  Her erewhile friends, the cause of all her woes,
  Who fondled and caressed her for a space,
  Who loved to stroke her soft, confiding face,
  Who gave her food and shelter from her birth,
  Who joined in all her harmless youthful mirth;
  But, when they went for holidays to roam,
  Shut-to the door of what had been her home,
  And thoughtless left to die upon the mat,
  Their faithful but forgotten Tabby-cat."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT LOWE, VISCOUNT SHERBROOKE.

BORN, 1811. DIED, JULY 27, 1892.

  Great fighter of lost causes, gone at last!
  A meteoric course, by shade o'ercast
  Long ere its close, was thine. A star that slips
  At brightest into shadow of eclipse,
  Leaves watchers waiting for its flaming forth
  In a renewed refulgence. Wit and worth,
  Satire and sense, courage and judgment keen,
  Were thine. What flaw of weakness or of spleen,
  What lack of patience or persistence, doomed
  Thee to too early darkness? Seldom bloomed
  So sudden-swift a flower of fame as thine,
  When BRIGHT and GLADSTONE led the serried line
  Of resolute reformers to the attack,
  And dauntless DIZZY strove to hear them back.
  Then rose "White-headed BOB," and foined and smote,
  Setting his slashing steel against the throat
  Of his old friends, and wrung from them applause.
  The champion was valiant, though the cause
  Was doomed to failure, and betrayal. Yes!
  The subtle Chief thus aided in the press
  By an ally so stalwart, turned and rent
  The flag he fought for, and the valour spent
  In its defence by thee, was wasted all.
  Yet 'twas a sight when, back against the wall,
  White-headed BOB would wield that flashing blade,
  That BRIGHT scarce parried, and that GLADSTONE stayed
  Only with utmost effort.
            Yes, 'twill live
  In record, that fierce fight, and radiance give
  Through Time's dense mist, when lesser stars grow dim,
  And though the untimely ermine silenced him,
  The clear and caustic critic, though no more,
  That rhetoric, like the Greek's, now "fulmined o'er"
  Democracy's low flats, but silent sank
  In those dull precincts dedicate to Rank;
  Still its remembered echoes shall resound,
  For he with honour, if not love, was crowned,
  Whom those he served, and "slated," like to know,
  Less as Lord SHERBROOKE than as "BOBBY LOWE."

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S SELECTIONS.

"The Yacht" Jersey.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

You will see par mon adresse that I am encore une fois on my travels! At present, in fact,
the Channel Islands "claim me for their own," as Lord Marmion says in BULWER LYTTON. Pardonnez-moi,
if I occasionally lapse into French, for vraiment il y a such a mixture of tongues that we
might almost rename them the Babel Islands--even my noted Parisian accent is scarcely understood.
C'est étonnant! and were it not for EULALIE, I should quelquefois be in a fix agaçant.

I told you in my last letter that I should be unable to brighten Goodwood with the sunshine
of my smile. But what is Goodwood compared to racing at Jersey? Indeed, it was unfortunate
for Goodwood that the meetings clashed, and it should be avoided in future.

It has been blowing hard for some few days, and we had rather a rough passage, and though the
yacht was not a wreck, I was I am afraid, in spite of the compliment paid me by Mr. SPOOPENDYKE
K. SIDNEY, the well-known American Four Millionnaire, who said he thought me "a real smart
sailor!"--and he was very near the truth, too, for the salt water got in my eyes and they did
smart; but I resolutely declined to go "below," and hung on to "the shrouds," I think they
called them--a most unpleasantly suggestive name, when you are dreading a watery grave every
moment. However, we got to our "moorings" at last (as Othello would call them), and having
chartered the inevitable "sharry-bang" started for the course.

By the way, en passant (I have not dropped into French for a long time), what a strange thing
it is, that the moment you land at one of these islands you are immediately advised to proceed
to another.

I was told at Guernsey that I must on no account miss seeing "Sark." so I didn't--but was careful
to observe it from a distance--for really, in these days of eruptions one doesn't know what
might happen on such a volcanic-looking island!--and besides, I always carry a pocket "Ætna"
in my dressing-bag, so that I can have a flare-up whenever I like. But let me see, where was
I? Oh, yes! sharry-banging out to the races at Jersey. Well, really now, judging from some
of the lovely toilettes worn by the Jersey "Daughters of Eve" (an old-established journalistic
expression, and to my mind, most idiotic and insulting--we are not all tempting!)--they are
in front of a good many of their Main-land sisters!--and the Hospitality--(always a capital
H, I believe)--shown by the 1st South Lancashire Regiment is not to be beaten anywhere! The
Lawn was well patronised, and the enthusiasm was tremendous--seven events--all over two miles,
and two over hurdles, where one came down! What more could you want--together with a glorious
day, "and all the fun for the Fair!"

The great event of the day was "Her Majesty's Cup," for three years' old and upwards--(one
went downwards)--and it was won, for the --th time in succession by Jersey Lily (I won't tell
the exact number of times, as it is rude to hint at a lady's age)--amid a scene of excitement
almost as big as the Eclipse at Sandown!--she was "followed home"--(racing expression--patented)--by
Lady Westhill and Lady Steephill--so you see we were quite among the haut-ton--though some
of us had never heard of these aristocratic thorough-breds before!

And so the Jersey Goodwood is once more over!--and we have again from the springy turf of the
Solent--(a most insecure footing)--caught in the flush of the sunlight the gleaming white sails
of the vessels on the Goodwood Downs!--(this may sound a little wrong--but I prefer it to using
a more stereotyped and matter-of-fact description).

