Poor Mr. Jones had indeed received comfort from other sources more material than this. His
relatives had put their heads together, and had agreed to bear some part of the loss which
had fallen upon the estate; not the loss, that is, from the submerged meadows, which was indeed
Mr. Jones's own private concern, but from the injury done to him by the commissioners. Indeed,
as things went on, that injury appeared to be less extensive than had been imagined, though
the injustice, as it struck Mr. Jones's mind, was not less egregious. Where there was a shred
of a lease the sub-commissioners were powerless, and though attempts had been made to break
the leases they had failed; and men were beginning to say that the new law would be comparatively
powerless because it would do so little. The advocates for the law pointed out that, taking
the land of Ireland all through, not five per cent.,--and again others not two per cent.,--would
be affected by it. Whether it had been worth while to disturb the sanctity of contracts for
so small a result is another question; but our Mr. Jones certainly did feel the comfort that
came to him from the fact. Certain fragments of land had been reduced by the sub-commissioners
after ponderous sittings, very beneficial to the lawyers, but which Mr. Jones had found to
be grievously costly to him. He had thus agreed to other reductions without the lawyers, and
felt those also to be very grievous, seeing that since he had purchased the property with a
Parliamentary title he had raised nothing. There was no satisfaction to him when he was told
that a Parliamentary title meant nothing, because a following Parliament could undo what a
preceding Parliament had done. But as the arrangements went on he came to find that no large
proportion of the estates would be affected, and that gradually the rents would be paid. They
had not been paid as yet, but such he was told was the coming prospect. Pat Carroll had risen
up as a great authority at Ballintubber, and had refused to pay a shilling. He had also destroyed
those eighty acres of meadow-land which had sat so near Mr. Jones's heart. It had been found
impossible to punish him, but the impossibility was to be traced to that poor boy's delinquency.
As the owner of the property turned it all over within his own bosom, he told himself that
it was so. It was that that had grieved him most, that which still sat heavy on his heart.
But the boy was gone, and Pat Carroll was in prison, and Pat Carroll's brother had been murdered
in Galway court-house. Lax, too, was in prison, and Yorke Clayton swore by all his gods that
he should be hanged. It was likely that he would be hanged, and Yorke Clayton might find his
comfort in that. And now had come up this terrible affair at Kerrycullion, from which it was
probable that the whole mystery of the new aristocracy would be abandoned. Mr. Jones, as he
thought of it all, whispered to himself that if he would still hold up his head, life might
yet be possible at Castle Morony. "It will only be for myself,--only for myself and Ada," he
said, still mourning greatly over his fate. "And Ada will go, too. The beauty of the flock
will never be left to remain here with her father." But in truth his regrets were chiefly for
Edith. If that bloodthirsty Captain would have made himself satisfied with Ada, he might still
have been happy.

In these days he would walk down frequently to the meadows and see the work which the men were
doing. He had greatly enlarged them, having borrowed money for the purpose from the Government
Land Commissioners, and was once again allowing new hopes to spring in his heart. Though he
was a man so silent, and appearing to be so apathetic, he was intent enough on his own purposes
when they became clear before his eyes. From his first coming into this country his purport
had been to do good, as far as the radius of his circle went, to all whom it included. The
necessity of living was no doubt the same with him as with others,--and of living well. He
must do something for himself and his children. But together with this was the desire, nearly
equally strong, of being a benefactor to those around him. He had declared to himself when
he bought the property that with this object would he settle himself down upon it, and he had
not departed from it. He had brought up his children with this purpose; and they had learned
to feel, one and all, that it was among the pleasures and the duties of their life. Then had
come Pat Carroll, and everything had been embittered for him. All Ballintubber and all Morony
had seemed to turn against him. When he found that Pat Carroll was disposed to be hostile to
him, he made the man a liberal offer to take himself off to America. But Mr. Jones, in those
days, had heard nothing of Lax, and was unaware that Lax was a dominant spirit under whom he
was doomed to suffer.

"I did not know you so well then," said Captain Clayton to Mr. Jones, now some weeks hence,
"or I could have told you that Pat Carroll is nobody. Pat Carroll is considered nobody, because
he has not been to New York. Mr. Lax has travelled, and Mr. Lax is somebody. Mr. Lax settled
himself in County Mayo, and thus he allowed his influence to spread itself among us over here
in County Galway. Mr. Lax is a great man, but I rather think that he will have to be hanged
in Galway jail before a month has passed over his head."

Mr. Jones usually took his son with him when he walked about among the meadows, and he again
expressed his wishes to him as though Frank hereafter were to have the management of everything.
But on one occasion, towards the latter half of the afternoon, he went alone. There were different
wooden barriers, having sluice gates passing between them, over which he would walk, and at
present there were sheep on the upper meadows, on which the luxuriant grass had begun to grow
in the early summer. He was looking at his sheep now, and thinking to himself that he could
find a market for them in spite of all that the boycotters could do to prevent him. But in
one corner, where the meadows ceased, and Pat Carroll's land began, he met an old man whom
he had known well in former years, named Con Heffernan. It was absolutely the case that he,
the landlord, did not at the present moment know who occupied Pat Carroll's land, though he
did know that he had received no rent for the last three years. And he knew also that Con Heffernan
was a friend of Carroll's, or, as he believed, a distant cousin. And he knew also that Con
was supposed to have been one of those who had assisted at the destruction of the sluice gates.

"Well, Con; how are you?" he said.

"Why thin, yer honour, I'm only puirly. It's bad times as is on us now, indeed and indeed."

"Whose fault is that?" said the squire.

"Not yer honour's. I will allys say that for your honour. You never did nothing to none of us."

"You had land on the estate till some twelve months since, and then you were evicted for five
gales of rent."

"That's thrue, too, yer honour."

"You ought to be a rich man now, seeing that you have got two-and-a-half years' rent in your
pocket, and I ought to be poor, seeing that I've got none of it."

"Is it puir for yer honour, and is it rich for the like of me?"

"What have you done with the money, Con,--the five gales of rent?"

"'Deed, yer honour, and I don't be just knowing anything about it."

"I suppose the Landleaguers have had some of it."

"I suppose they have, thin; the black divil run away with them for Laaguers!"

"Have you quarrelled with the League, Con?"

"I have quarrelled with a'most of the things which is a-going at the present moment."

"I'm sorry for that, as quarrels with old friends are always bad."

