One of their leading pastors, and a man of as much learning as most among them, in his answer
to a pamphlet, entitled 'An Inquiry into the Occasional Conformity,' has these words, p. 27,
'Do the religion of the Church and the meeting-houses make two religions? Wherein do they differ?
The substance of the same religion is common to them both; and the modes and accidents are
the things in which only they differ.' P. 28: 'Thirty-nine articles are given us for the summary
of our religion; thirty-six contain the substance of it, wherein we agree; three the additional
appendices, about which we have some differences.'

Now, if, as by their own acknowledgment, the Church of England is a true Church, and the difference
between them is only in a few modes and accidents, why should we expect that they will suffer
galleys, corporeal punishment, and banishment for these trifles? There is no question but they
will be wiser; even their own principles will not bear them out in it; they will certainly
comply with the laws and with reason; and though at the first severity they may seem hard,
the next age will feel nothing of it; the contagion will be rooted out; the disease being cured,
there will be no need of the operation; but if they should venture to transgress and fall into
the pit, all the world must condemn their obstinacy, as being without ground from their own
principles.

Thus the pretence of cruelty will be taken off, and the party actually suppressed, and the
disquiets they have so often brought upon the nation prevented.

Their numbers and their wealth make them haughty, and that is so far from being an argument
to persuade us to forbear them, that it is a warning to us, without any delay, to reconcile
them to the unity of the Church or remove them from us.

At present, Heaven be praised, they are not so formidable as they have been, and it is our
own fault if ever we suffer them to be so. Providence and the Church of England seem to join
in this particular, that now the destroyers of the nation's peace may be overturned, and to
this end the present opportunity seems to be put into our hands.

To this end her present Majesty seems reserved to enjoy the crown, that the ecclesiastic as
well as civil rights of the nation may be restored by her hand. To this end the face of affairs
have received such a turn in the process of a few months as never has been before; the leading
men of the nation, the universal cry of the people, the unanimous request of the clergy, agree
in this, that the deliverance of our Church is at hand. For this end has Providence given us
such a Parliament, such a Convocation, such a gentry, and such a Queen as we never had before.
And what may be the consequences of a neglect of such opportunities? The succession of the
crown has but a dark prospect; another Dutch turn may make the hopes of it ridiculous and the
practice impossible. Be the house of our future princes never so well inclined, they will be
foreigners, and many years will be spent in suiting the genius of strangers to this crown and
the interests of the nation; and how many ages it may be before the English throne be filled
with so much zeal and candour, so much tenderness and hearty affection to the Church as we
see it now covered with, who can imagine?

It is high time, then, for the friends of the Church of England to think of building up and
establishing her in such a manner that she may be no more invaded by foreigners nor divided
by factions, schisms, and error.

If this could be done by gentle and easy methods, I should be glad; but the wound is corroded,
the vitals begin to mortify, and nothing but amputation of members can complete the cure; all
the ways of tenderness and compassion, all persuasive arguments, have been made use of in vain.

The humour of the Dissenters has so increased among the people that they hold the Church in
defiance, and the house of God is an abomination among them; nay, they have brought up their
posterity in such prepossessed aversions to our holy religion that the ignorant mob think we
are all idolaters and worshippers of Baal, and account it a sin to come within the walls of
our churches.

The primitive Christians were not more shy of a heathen temple or of meat offered to idols,
nor the Jews of swine's flesh, than some of our Dissenters are of the Church, and the divine
service selemnised therein.

This obstinacy must be rooted out with the profession of it; while the generation are less
at liberty daily to affront God Almighty and dishonour His holy worship, we are wanting in
our duty to God and our mother, the Church of England.

How can we answer it to God, to the Church, and to our posterity, to leave them entangled with
fanaticism, error, and obstinacy in the bowels of the nation; to leave them an enemy in their
streets, that in time may involve them in the same crimes, and endanger the utter extirpation
of religion in the nation?

What is the difference betwixt this and being subjected to the power of the Church of Rome,
from whence we have reformed? If one be an extreme on one hand, and one on another, it is equally
destructive to the truth to have errors settled among us, let them be of what nature they will.

Both are enemies of our Church and of our peace; and why should it not be as criminal to admit
an enthusiast as a Jesuit? Why should the Papist with his seven sacraments be worse than the
Quaker with no sacraments at all? Why should religious houses be more intolerable than meeting-houses?
Alas, the Church of England! What with Popery on one hand, and schismatics on the other, how
has she been crucified between two thieves!

Now let us crucify the thieves. Let her foundations be established upon the destruction of
her enemies. The doors of mercy being always open to the returning part of the deluded people,
let the obstinate be ruled with the rod of iron.

Let all true sons of so holy and oppressed a mother, exasperated by her afflictions, harden
their hearts against those who have oppressed her.

And may God Almighty put it into the hearts of all the friends of truth to lift up a standard
against pride and Antichrist, that the posterity of the sons of error may be rooted out from
the face of this land for ever.

III.--THE 'DRAPIER'S LETTERS'

(NOS. I AND 2)

BY JONATHAN SWIFT

(The two pamphlets entitled The Conduct of the Allies and The Public Spirit of the Whigs--which
are sometimes considered the capital examples of the political efforts of Swift's magnificent
genius--were the very Jachin and Boaz of the Tory administration in the last years of Anne,
and the effect of them has been admitted by such a violent Whig and such a good critic as Jeffrey.
They seemed, however, not wholly suitable for insertion here; first, because of their length
(for one would have occupied nearly a third, the other nearly a fourth of this volume), and
secondly, because the greater part of each does really, to some extent, underlie the charge
brought against political pamphlets generally, and, being occupied with a great number of personal
and particular matters, requires either much intimacy with the period or elaborate and probably
tedious comparison and elucidation, to make it intelligible. No such drawback attaches to the
almost more famous Drapier's Letters, of which I give the first and second. They were written
at the very zenith of their author's marvellous powers, and at the time when his sæva indignatio
was heated seven times hotter than usual by the conviction that his last hope of English promotion
was gone. Their circumstances are simple and well known. Wood had received a patent to coin
copper money for Ireland to the amount of £108,000. Most commentators seem to think that he
would have done this honestly enough; to me the simple fact that on the revocation of his patent
a pension of £3000 a year was given to him in compensation is proof enough of the contrary.
It is impossible to imagine any honest profit on a transaction of such a nature to such an
amount which could rise to the capital value of such a pension. That Swift was instigated to
take up his pen against the transaction by private griefs against the Ministry is extremely
probable; that the thing was not a job less so. As before, I must refer to biographers for
the details of the matter; the text is what interests us here.

Brethren, Friends, Countrymen, and Fellow Subjects--What I intend now to say to you, is, next
to your duty to God, and the care of your salvation, of the greatest concern to yourselves,
and your children; your bread and clothing, and every common necessary of life entirely depend
upon it. Therefore I do most earnestly exhort you as men, as Christians, as parents, and as
lovers of your country, to read this paper with the utmost attention, or get it read to you
by others; which that you may do at the less expence, I have ordered the printer to sell it
at the lowest rate.

It is a great fault among you, that when a person writes with no other intention than to do
you good you will not be at the pains to read his advices: one copy of this paper may serve
a dozen of you, which will be less than a farthing a-piece. It is your folly that you have
no common or general interest in your view, not even the wisest among you, neither do you know
or enquire, or care who are your friends or who are your enemies.

About four years ago, a little book was written, to advise all people to wear the manufactures
of this our own dear country: it had no other design, said nothing against the king or Parliament,
or any man, yet the poor printer was prosecuted two years, with the utmost violence, and even
some weavers themselves, for whose sake it was written, being upon the jury, found him guilty.
This would be enough to discourage any man from endeavouring to do you good, when you will
either neglect him or fly in his face for his pains, and when he must expect only danger to
himself and loss of money, perhaps to his ruin.

However, I cannot but warn you once more of the manifest destruction before your eyes, if you
do not behave yourselves as you ought.

I will therefore first tell you the plain story of the fact; and then I will lay before you
how you ought to act in common prudence, and according to the laws of your country.

The fact is thus, It having been many years since copper half-pence or farthings were last
coined in this kingdom, they have been for some time very scarce, and many counterfeits passed
about under the name of raps. Several applications were made to England, that we might have
liberty to coin new ones, as in former times we did; but they did not succeed. At last one
Mr. Wood a mean ordinary man, a hard-ware dealer, procured a patent under his Majesty's Broad
Seal to coin fourscore and ten thousand pounds in copper for this kingdom, which patent however
did not oblige any one here to take them, unless they pleased. For example, if a hatter sells
a dozen of hats for five shillings a-piece, which amounts to three pounds, and receives the
payment in Mr. Wood's coin, he really receives only the value of five shillings.

Perhaps you will wonder how such an ordinary fellow as this Mr. Wood could have so much interest
as to get his Majesty's Broad Seal for so great a sum of bad money to be sent to this poor
country, and that all the nobility and gentry here could not obtain the same favour, and let
us make our own half-pence, as we used to do. Now I will make that matter very plain. We are
at a great distance from the king's court, and have nobody there to solicit for us, although
a great number of lords and squires, whose estates are here, and are our countrymen, spend
all their lives and fortunes there. But this same Mr. Wood was able to attend constantly for
his own interest; he is an Englishman and had great friends, and it seems knew very well where
to give money to those that would speak to others that could speak to the king and could tell
a fair story. And his majesty, and perhaps the great lord or lords who advised him, might think
it was for our country's good; and so, as the lawyers express it, the king was deceived in
his grant, which often happens in all reigns. And I am sure if his majesty knew that such a
patent, if it should take effect according to the desire of Mr. Wood, would utterly ruin this
kingdom, which hath given such great proofs of its loyalty, he would immediately recall it,
and perhaps show his displeasure to somebody or other: but a word to the wise is enough. Most
of you must have heard, with what anger our honourable House of Commons receiv'd an account
of this Wood's patent. There were several fine speeches made upon it, and plain proofs that
it was all a wicked cheat from the bottom to the top, and several smart votes were printed,
which that same Wood had the assurance to answer likewise in print, and in so confident a way,
as if he were a better man than our whole Parliament put together.

This Wood, as soon as his patent was passed, or soon after, sends over a great many barrels
of those half-pence, to Cork and other seaport towns, and to get them off, offered an hundred
pounds in his coin for seventy or eighty in silver: but the collectors of the king's customs
very honestly refused to take them, and so did almost everybody else. And since the Parliament
hath condemned them, and desired the king that they might be stopped, all the kingdom do abominate
them.

But Wood is still working under hand to force his half-pence upon us, and if he can by help
of his friends in England prevail so far as to get an order that the commissioners and collectors
of the king's money shall receive them, and that the army is to be paid with them, then he
thinks his work shall be done. And this is the difficulty you will be under in such a case:
for the common soldier when he goes to the market or ale-house will offer this money, and if
it be refused, perhaps he will swagger and hector, and threaten to beat the butcher or ale-wife,
or take the goods by force, and throw them the bad half-pence. In this and the like cases the
shop-keeper, or victualler, or any other tradesman, has no more to do than to demand ten times
the price of his goods if it is to be paid in Wood's money; for example, twenty pence of that
money for a quart of ale, and so in all things else, and not part with his goods till he gets
the money.

For suppose you go to an ale-house with that base money, and the landlord gives you a quart
for four of these half-pence, what must the victualler do? His brewer will not be paid in that
coin, or if the brewer should be such a fool, the farmers will not take it from them for their
bere, because they are bound by their leases to pay their rents in good and lawful money of
England, which this is not, nor of Ireland neither, and the Squire their landlord will never
be so bewitched to take such trash for his land; so that it must certainly stop somewhere or
other, and where-ever it stops it is the same thing, and we are all undone.

The common weight of these half-pence is between four and five to an ounce; suppose five, then
three shillings and fourpence will weigh a pound, and consequently twenty shillings will weigh
six pounds butter weight. Now there are many hundred farmers who pay two hundred pound a year
rent. Therefore when one of these farmers comes with his half year's rent, which is one hundred
pound, it will be at least six hundred pound weight, which is three horses load.

If a squire has a mind to come to town to buy clothes and wine and spices for himself and family,
or perhaps to pass the winter here, he must bring with him five or six horses loaden with sacks
as the farmers bring their corn; and when his lady comes in her coach to our shops, it must
be followed by a car loaded with Mr. Wood's money. And I hope we shall have the grace to take
it for no more than it is worth.

They say Squire Conolly has sixteen thousand pounds a year; now if he sends for his rent to
town, as it is likely he does, he must have two hundred and fifty horses to bring up his half-year's
rent, and two or three great cellars in his house for stowage. But what the bankers will do
I cannot tell. For I am assured that some great bankers keep by them forty thousand pounds
in ready cash, to answer all payments, which sum, in Mr. Wood's money, would require twelve
hundred horses to carry it.

These half-pence, if they once pass, will soon be counterfeit, because it may be cheaply done,
the stuff is so base. The Dutch likewise will probably do the same thing, and send them over
to us to pay for our goods; and Mr. Wood will never be at rest but coin on: so that in some
years we shall have at least five times fourscore and ten thousand pounds of this lumber. Now
the current money of this kingdom is not reckoned to be above four hundred thousand pounds
in all; and while there is a silver sixpence left, these blood-suckers will never be quiet.

When once the kingdom is reduced to such a condition I will tell you what must be the end:
the gentlemen of estates will all turn off their tenants for want of payment, because, as I
told you before, the tenants are obliged by their leases to pay sterling, which is lawful current
money of England; then they will turn their own farmers, as too many of them do already, run
all into sheep where they can, keeping only such other cattle as are necessary; then they will
be their own merchants, and send their wool and butter and hides and linen beyond sea for ready
money and wine and spices and silks. They will keep only a few miserable cottiers. The farmers
must rob or beg, or leave their country. The shop-keepers in this and every other town must
break and starve: for it is the landed man that maintains the merchant, and shop-keeper, and
handicraftsman.

But when the squire turns farmer and merchant himself, all the good money he gets from abroad
he will hoard up to send for England, and keep some poor tailor or weaver and the like in his
own house, who will be glad to get bread at any rate.

I should never have done, if I were to tell you all the miseries that we shall undergo if we
be so foolish and wicked as to take this cursed coin. It would be very hard if all Ireland
should be put into one scale, and this sorry fellow Wood into the other, that Mr. Wood should
weigh down this whole kingdom, by which England gets above a million of good money every year
clear into their pockets, and that is more than the English do by all the world besides.

But your great comfort is, that, as his majesty's patent does not oblige you to take this money,
so the laws have not given the Crown a power of forcing the subjects to take what money the
king pleases: for then, by the same reason, we might be bound to take pebble-stones or cockle-shells,
or stamped leather for current coin, if ever we should happen to live under an ill prince,
who might likewise by the same power make a guinea pass for ten pounds, a shilling for twenty
shillings, and so on, by which he would in a short time get all the silver and gold of the
kingdom into his own hands, and leave us nothing but brass or leather or what he pleased. Neither
is anything reckoned more cruel or oppressive in the French Government than their common practice
of calling in all their money after they have sunk it very low, and then coining it a-new at
a much higher value, which however is not the thousandth part so wicked as this abominable
project of Mr. Wood. For the French give their subjects silver for silver, and gold for gold;
but this fellow will not so much as give us good brass or copper for our gold and silver, nor
even a twelfth part of their worth.

Having said this much, I will now go on to tell you the judgments of some great lawyers in
this matter, whom I fee'd on purpose for your sakes, and got their opinions under their hands,
that I might be sure I went upon good grounds.

A famous law-book call'd the Mirrour of Justice, discoursing of the articles (or laws) ordained
by our ancient kings, declares the law to be as follows: It was ordained that no king of this
realm should change, impair, or amend the money or make any other money than of gold or silver
without the assent of all the counties, that is, as my Lord Coke says, without the assent of
Parliament.

This book is very ancient, and of great authority for the time in which it was wrote, and with
that character is often quoted by that great lawyer my Lord Coke. By the laws of England, several
metals are divided into lawful or true metal and unlawful or false metal; the former comprehends
silver or gold, the latter all baser metals: that the former is only to pass in payments appears
by an Act of Parliament made the twentieth year of Edward the First, called the statute concerning
the passing of pence, which I give you here as I got it translated into English; for some of
our laws at that time were, as I am told, writ in Latin: Whoever in buying or selling presumeth
to refuse an half-penny or farthing of lawful money, bearing the stamp which it ought to have,
let him be seized on as a contemner of the king's majesty, and cast to prison.

By this statute, no person is to be reckoned a contemner of the king's majesty, and for that
crime to be committed to prison, but he who refuses to accept the king's coin made of lawful
metal, by which, as I observ'd before, silver and gold only are intended.

That this is the true construction of the Act, appears not only from the plain meaning of the
words, but from my Lord Coke's observation upon it. By this Act (says he) it appears that no
subject can be forc'd to take in buying or selling or other payments, any money made but of
lawful metal; that is, of silver or gold.

The law of England gives the king all mines of gold and silver, but not the mines of other
metals; the reason of which prerogative or power, as it is given by my Lord Coke, is, because
money can be made of gold and silver, but not of other metals.

Pursuant to this opinion half-pence and farthings were anciently made of silver, which is more
evident from the Act of Parliament of Henry the IVth. chap. 4, by which it is enacted as follows:
Item, for the great scarcity that is at present within the realm of England of half-pence and
farthings of silver, it is ordained and established that the third part of all the money of
silver plate which shall be brought to the bullion, shall be made in half-pence and farthings.
This shows that by the words half-penny and farthing of lawful money in that statute concerning
the passing of pence, is meant a small coin in half-pence and farthings of silver.

This is further manifest from the statute of the ninth year of Edward the IIId. chap. 3, which
enacts, That no sterling half-penny or farthing be molten for to make vessel, or any other
thing by the goldsmiths, nor others, upon forfeiture of the money so molten (or melted).

By another Act in this king's reign black money was not to be current in England, and by an
Act made in the eleventh year of his reign, chap. 5, galley half-pence were not to pass: what
kind of coin these were I do not know, but I presume they were made of base metal, and that
these Acts were no new laws, but further declarations of the old laws relating to the coin.

Thus the law stands in relation to coin, nor is there any example to the contrary, except one
in Davis's Reports, who tells us, that in the time of Tyrone's rebellion Queen Elizabeth ordered
money of mixt metal to be coined in the Tower of London, and sent over hither for payment of
the army, obliging all people to receive it, and commanding that all silver money should be
taken only as bullion, that is, for as much as it weighed. Davis tells us several particulars
in this matter too long here to trouble you with, and that the Privy Council of this kingdom
obliged a merchant in England to receive this mixt money for goods transmitted hither.

But this proceeding is rejected by all the best lawyers as contrary to law, the Privy Council
here having no such power. And, besides, it is to be considered that the Queen was then under
great difficulties by a rebellion in this kingdom, assisted from Spain, and whatever is done
in great exigences and dangerous times should never be an example to proceed by in seasons
of peace and quietness.

I will now, my dear friends, to save you the trouble, set before you, in short, what the law
obliges you to do, and what it does not oblige you to.

First, You are oblig'd to take all money in payments which is coin'd by the king and is of
the English standard or weight, provided it be of gold or silver.

Secondly, You are not oblig'd to take any money which is not of gold or silver, not only the
half-pence or farthings of England, or of any other country; and it is only for convenience,
or ease, that you are content to take them, because the custom of coining silver half-pence
and farthings hath long been left off, I will suppose on account of their being subject to be lost.

Thirdly, Much less are we oblig'd to take those vile half-pence of that same Wood, by which
you must lose almost eleven-pence in every shilling.

Therefore, my friends, stand to it one and all, refuse this filthy trash: it is no treason
to rebel against Mr. Wood; his majesty in his patent obliges nobody to take these half-pence;
our gracious prince hath no so ill advisers about him; or if he had, yet you see the laws have
not left it in the king's power, to force us to take any coin but what is lawful, of right
standard, gold and silver; therefore you have nothing to fear.

And let me in the next place apply myself particularly to you who are the poor sort of tradesmen:
perhaps you may think you will not be so great losers as the rich if these half-pence should
pass, because you seldom see any silver, and your customers come to your shops or stalls with
nothing but brass, which you likewise find hard to be got; but you may take my word, whenever
this money gains footing among you, you will be utterly undone; if you carry these half-pence
to a shop for tobacco or brandy, or any other thing you want, the shop-keeper will advance
his goods accordingly, or else he must break and leave the key under the door. Do you think
I will sell you a yard of tenpenny stuff for twenty of Mr. Wood's half-pence? No, not under
two hundred at least, neither will I be at the trouble of counting, but weigh them in a lump.
I will tell you one thing further, that if Mr. Wood's project should take it will ruin even
our beggars: for when I give a beggar an half-penny, it will quench his thirst, or go a good
way to fill his belly; but the twelfth part of a half-penny will do him no more service than
if I should give him three pins out of my sleeve.

In short those half-pence are like the accursed thing, which, as the Scripture tells us, the
children of Israel were forbidden to touch; they will run about like the plague and destroy
every one who lays his hands upon them. I have heard scholars talk of a man who told a king
that he had invented a way to torment people by putting them into a bull of brass with fire
under it, but the prince put the projector first into his own brazen bull to make the experiment;
this very much resembles the project of Mr. Wood; and the like of this may possibly be Mr.
Wood's fate, that the brass he contrived to torment this kingdom with, may prove his own torment,
and his destruction at last.

N.B.--The author of this paper is inform'd by persons who have made it their business to be
exact in their observations on the true value of these half-pence, that any person may expect
to get a quart of twopenny ale for thirty-six of them.

I desire all persons may keep this paper carefully by them to refresh their memories whenever
they shall have further notice of Mr. Wood's half-pence or any other the like imposture.

II.

In your news-letter of the first instant there is a paragraph dated from London, July 25th,
relating to Wood's half-pence; whereby it is plain, what I foretold in my letter to the shop-keepers,
etc., that this vile fellow would never be at rest, and that the danger of our ruin approaches
nearer, and therefore the kingdom requires new and fresh warning; however I take that paragraph
to be, in a great measure, an imposition upon the public, at least I hope so, because I am
informed that Wood is generally his own news-writer. I cannot but observe from that paragraph
that this public enemy of ours, not satisfied to ruin us with his trash, takes every occasion
to treat this kingdom with the utmost contempt. He represents several of our merchants and
traders upon examination before a committee of a council, agreeing that there was the utmost
necessity of copper-money here, before his patent, so that several gentlemen have been forced
to tally with their workmen, and give them bits of cards sealed and subscribed with their names.
What then? If a physician prescribe to a patient a dram of physic, shall a rascal apothecary
cram him with a pound, and mix it up with poison? And is not a landlord's hand and seal to
his own labourers a better security for five or ten shillings, than Wood's brass seven times
below the real value, can be to the kingdom, for an hundred and four thousand pounds?

But who are these merchants and traders of Ireland that make this report of the utmost necessity
we are under of copper money? They are only a few betrayers of their country, confederates
with Wood, from whom they are to purchase a great quantity of his coin, perhaps at half value,
and vend it among us to the ruin of the public and their own private advantage. Are not these
excellent witnesses, upon whose integrity the fate of a kingdom must depend, who are evidences
in their own cause, and sharers in this work of iniquity?

If we could have deserved the liberty of coining for ourselves, as we formerly did (and why
we have not is everybody's wonder as well as mine), ten thousand pounds might have been coined
here in Dublin of only one fifth below the intrinsic value, and this sum, with the stock of
half-pence we then had, would have been sufficient: but Wood by his emissaries, enemies to
God and this kingdom, hath taken care to buy up as many of our old half-pence as he could,
and from thence the present want of change arises; to remove which, by Mr. Wood's remedy, would
be, to cure a scratch on the finger by cutting off the arm. But supposing there were not one
farthing of change in the whole nation, I will maintain that five and twenty thousand pounds
would be a sum fully sufficient to answer all our occasions. I am no inconsiderable shop-keeper
in this town, I have discoursed with several of my own and other trades, with many gentlemen
both of city and country, and also with great numbers of farmers, cottagers, and labourers,
who all agree that two shillings in change for every family would be more than necessary in
all dealings. Now by the largest computation (even before that grievous discouragement of agriculture,
which hath so much lessened our numbers) the souls in this kingdom are computed to be one million
and a half, which, allowing but six to a family, makes two hundred and fifty thousand families,
and consequently two shillings to each family will amount only to five and twenty thousand
pounds, whereas this honest liberal hard-ware-man Wood, would impose upon us above four times
that sum.

Your paragraph relates further, that Sir Isaac Newton reported an assay taken at the Tower,
of Wood's metal, by which it appears that Wood had in all respects performed his contract.
His contract! With whom? Was it with the Parliament or people of Ireland? Are not they to be
the purchasers? But they detest, abhor, and reject it, as corrupt, fraudulent, mingled with
dirt and trash. Upon which he grows angry, goes to law, and will impose his goods upon us by force.

But your news-letter says that an assay was made of the coin. How impudent and insupportable
is this? Wood takes care to coin a dozen or two half-pence of good metal, sends them to the
Tower and they are approved, and these must answer all that he hath already coined or shall
coin for the future. It is true, indeed, that a gentleman often sends to my shop for a pattern
of stuff, I cut it fairly off, and if he likes it he comes or sends and compares the pattern
with the whole piece, and probably we come to a bargain. But if I were to buy an hundred sheep,
and the grazier should bring me one single weather fat and well fleeced by way of pattern,
and expect the same price round for the whole hundred, without suffering me to see them before
he was paid, or giving me good security to restore my money for those that were lean or shorn
or scabby, I would be none of his customer. I have heard of a man who had a mind to sell his
house, and therefore carried a piece of brick in his pocket, which he showed as a pattern to
encourage purchasers: and this is directly the case in point with Mr. Wood's assay.

The next part of the paragraph contains Mr. Wood's voluntary proposals for preventing any future
objections or apprehensions.

His first proposal is, that whereas he hath already coined seventeen thousand pounds, and has
copper prepared to make it up forty thousand pounds, he will be content to coin no more, unless
the exigences of trade require it, though his patent empowers him to coin a far greater quantity.

To which if I were to answer it should be thus: Let Mr. Wood and his crew of founders and tinkers
coin on till there is not an old kettle left in the kingdom; let them coin old leather, tobacco-pipe
clay, or the dirt in the streets, and call their trumpery by what name they please from a guinea
to a farthing, we are not under any concern to know how he and his tribe or accomplices think
fit to employ themselves. But I hope and trust that we are all to a man fully determined to
have nothing to do with him or his ware.

The king has given him a patent to coin half-pence, but hath not obliged us to take them, and
I have already shown in my Letter to the Shop-keepers, etc., that the law hath not left it
in the power of the prerogative to compel the subject to take any money, beside gold and silver
of the right sterling and standard.

Wood further proposes, (if I understand him right, for his expressions are dubious) that he
will not coin above forty thousand pounds unless the exigences of trade require it: First,
I observe that this sum of forty thousand pounds is almost double to what I proved to be sufficient
for the whole kingdom, although we had not one of our old half-pence left. Again I ask, who
is to be judge when the exigences of trade require it? Without doubt he means himself, for
as to us of this poor kingdom, who must be utterly ruined if his project should succeed, we
were never once consulted till the matter was over, and he will judge of our exigences by his
own; neither will these be ever at an end till he and his accomplices will think they have
enough: and it now appears that he will not be content with all our gold and silver, but intends
to buy up our goods and manufactures with the same coin.

I shall not enter into examination of the prices for which he now proposes to sell his half-pence
or what he calls his copper, by the pound; I have said enough of it in my former letter, and
it hath likewise been considered by others. It is certain that, by his own first computation,
we were to pay three shillings for what was intrinsically worth but one, although it had been
of the true weight and standard for which he pretended to have contracted; but there is so
great a difference both in weight and badness in several of his coins that some of them have
been nine in ten below the intrinsic value, and most of them six or seven.

His last proposal being of a peculiar strain and nature, deserves to be very particularly consider'd,
both on account of the matter and the style. It is as follows.

Lastly, in consideration of the direful apprehensions which prevail in Ireland, that Mr. Wood
will by such coinage drain them of their gold and silver, he proposes to take their manufactures
in exchange, and that no person be obliged to receive more than five-pence half-penny at one
payment.

First, observe this little impudent hard-ware-man turning into ridicule the direful apprehensions
of a whole kingdom, priding himself as the cause of them, and daring to prescribe what no king
of England ever attempted, how far a whole nation shall be obliged to take his brass coin.
And he has reason to insult; for sure there was never an example in history of a great kingdom
kept in awe for above a year in daily dread of utter destruction, not by a powerful invader
at the head of twenty thousand men, not by a plague or a famine, not by a tyrannical prince
(for we never had one more gracious) or a corrupt administration, but by one single, diminutive,
insignificant, mechanic.

But to go on. To remove our direful apprehensions that he will drain us of our gold and silver
by his coinage, this little arbitrary mock-monarch most graciously offers to take our manufactures
in exchange. Are our Irish understandings indeed so low in his opinion? Is not this the very
misery we complain of? That his cursed project will put us under the necessity of selling our
goods for what is equal to nothing. How would such a proposal sound from France or Spain, or
any other country we deal with, if they should offer to deal with us only upon this condition,
that we should take their money at ten times higher than the intrinsic value? Does Mr. Wood
think, for instance, that we will sell him a stone of wool for a parcel of his counters not
worth sixpence, when we can send it to England and receive as many shillings in gold and silver?
Surely there was never heard such a compound of impudence, villainy and folly.

His proposals conclude with perfect high-treason. He promises, that no person shall be obliged
to receive more than five-pence half-penny of his coin in one payment: by which it is plain
that he pretends to oblige every subject in this kingdom to take so much in every payment,
if it be offered; whereas his patent obliges no man, nor can the prerogative by law claim such
a power, as I have often observed; so that here Mr. Wood takes upon him the entire legislature,
and an absolute dominion over the properties of the whole nation.

Good God! Who are this wretch's advisers? Who are his supporters, abettors, encouragers, or
sharers? Mr. Wood will oblige me to take five-pence half-penny of his brass in every payment.
He has laid a tax upon the people of Ireland of seventeen shillings at least in the pound;
a tax, I say, not only upon lands, but interest-money, goods, manufactures, the hire of handicraftsmen,
labourers and servants. Shop-keepers, look to yourselves. Wood will oblige and force you to
take five-pence half-penny of his trash in every payment, and many of you receive twenty, thirty,
forty, payments in one day, or else you can hardly find bread: and pray consider how much that
will amount to in a year; twenty times five-pence half-penny is nine shillings and two-pence,
which is above an hundred and sixty pounds a year, whereof you will be losers of at least one
hundred and forty pounds by taking your payments in his money. If any of you be content to
deal with Mr. Wood on such conditions they may. But for my own particular, let his money perish
with him.

The paragraph concludes thus. N.B. (that is to say nota bene, or mark well) No evidence appeared
from Ireland or elsewhere, to prove the mischiefs complained of, or any abuses whatsoever committed
in the execution of the said grant.

The impudence of this remark exceeds all that went before. First, the House of Commons in Ireland,
which represents the whole people of the kingdom; and secondly the Privy Council, addressed
his majesty against these half-pence. What could be done more to express the universal sense
and opinion of the nation? If his copper were diamonds, and the kingdom were entirely against
it, would not that be sufficient to reject it? Must a committee of the House of Commons, and
our whole Privy Council go over to argue pro and con with Mr. Wood? To what end did the king
give his patent for coining of half-pence in Ireland? Was it not, because it was represented
to his sacred majesty, that such a coinage would be of advantage to the good of this kingdom,
and of all his subjects here? It is to the patentee's peril if his representation be false,
and the execution of his patent be fraudulent and corrupt. Is he so wicked and foolish to think
that his patent was given him to ruin a million and a half of people, that he might be a gainer
of three or fourscore thousand pounds to himself? Before he was at the charge of passing a
patent, much more of raking up so much filthy dross, and stamping it with his majesty's image
and superscription, should he not first in common sense, in common equity, and common manners,
have consulted the principal party concerned; that is to say, the people of the kingdom, the
House of Lords or Commons, or the Privy Council? If any foreigner should ask us, whose image
and superscription there is on Wood's coin, we should be ashamed to tell him, it was Cæsar's.
In that great want of copper half-pence, which he alleges we were, our city set up our Cæsar's
statue in excellent copper, at an expence that is equal in value to thirty thousand pounds
of his coin; and we will not receive his image in worse metal.

I observe many of our people putting a melancholy case on this subject. It is true say they,
we are all undone if Wood's half-pence must pass; but what shall we do, if his majesty puts
out a proclamation commanding us to take them? This has been often dinned in my ears. But I
desire my countrymen to be assured that there is nothing in it. The king never issues out a
proclamation but to enjoin what the law permits him. He will not issue out a proclamation against
law, or if such a thing should happen by a mistake, we are no more obliged to obey it than
to run our heads into the fire. Besides, his majesty will never command us by a proclamation,
what he does not offer to command us in the patent itself. There he leaves it to our discretion,
so that our destruction must be entirely owing to ourselves. Therefore let no man be afraid
of a proclamation, which will never be granted; and if it should, yet upon this occasion, will
be of no force. The king's revenues here are near four hundred thousand pounds a year, can
you think his ministers will advise him to take them in Wood's brass, which will reduce the
value to fifty thousand pounds? England gets a million sterl. by this nation, which, if this
project goes on, will be almost reduc'd to nothing: and do you think those who live in England
upon Irish estates will be content to take an eighth or a tenth part, by being paid in Wood's
dross?

If Wood and his confederates were not convinced of our stupidity, they never would have attempted
so audacious an enterprise. He now sees a spirit hath been raised against him, and he only
watches till it begins to flag, he goes about watching when to devour us. He hopes we shall
be weary of contending with him, and at last out of ignorance, or fear, or of being perfectly
tired with opposition, we shall be forced to yield. And therefore I confess it is my chief
endeavour to keep up your spirits and resentments. If I tell you there is a precipice under
you, and that if you go forwards you will certainly break your necks--if I point to it before
your eyes, must I be at the trouble of repeating it every morning? Are our people's hearts
waxed gross? Are their ears dull of hearing, and have they closed their eyes? I fear there
are some few vipers among us, who, for ten or twenty pounds' gain, would sell their souls and
their country, though at last it would end in their own ruin as well as ours. Be not like the
deaf adder, who refuses to hear the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely.

Though my letter be directed to you, Mr. Harding, yet I intend it for all my countrymen. I
have no interest in this affair but what is common to the public; I can live better than many
others, I have some gold and silver by me, and a shop well furnished, and shall be able to
make a shift when many of my betters are starving. But I am grieved to see the coldness and
indifference of many people with whom I discourse. Some are afraid of a proclamation, others
shrug up their shoulders, and cry, what would you have us to do? Some give out, there is no
danger at all. Others are comforted that it will be a common calamity and they shall fare no
worse than their neighbours. Will a man, who hears midnight-robbers at his door, get out of
bed, and raise his family for a common defence, and shall a whole kingdom lie in a lethargy,
while Mr. Wood comes at the head of his confederates to rob them of all they have, to ruin
us and our posterity for ever? If an high-way-man meets you on the road, you give him your
money to save your life; but, God be thanked, Mr. Wood cannot touch a hair of your heads. You
have all the laws of God and man on your side. When he or his accomplices offer you his dross,
it is but saying No, and you are safe. If a madman should come to my shop with a handful of
dirt raked out of the kennel, and offer it in payment for ten yards of stuff, I would pity
or laugh at him, or, if his behaviour deserved it, kick him out of my doors. And if Mr. Wood
comes to demand any gold or silver, or commodities for which I have paid my gold and silver,
in exchange for his trash, can he deserve or expect better treatment?

When the evil day is come (if it must come) let us mark and observe those who presume to offer
these half-pence in payment. Let their names and trades, and places of abode be made public,
that every one may be aware of them, as betrayers of their country, and confederates with Mr.
Wood. Let them be watched at markets and fairs, and let the first honest discoverer give the
word about, that Wood's half-pence have been offered, and caution the poor innocent people
not to receive them.

Perhaps I have been too tedious; but there would never be an end, if I attempt to say all that
this melancholy subject will bear. I will conclude with humbly offering one proposal, which
if it were put in practice, would blow up this destructive project at once. Let some skilful
judicious pen draw up an advertisement to the following purpose:

Whereas one William Wood, hard-ware-man, now or lately sojourning in the city of London, hath,
by many misrepresentations, procured a patent for coining an hundred and forty thousand pounds
in copper half-pence for this kingdom, which is a sum five times greater than our occasions
require: And whereas it is notorious that the said Wood hath coined his half-pence of such
base metal and false weight, that they are, at least, six parts in seven below the real value:
And whereas we have reason to apprehend that the said Wood may, at any time hereafter, clandestinely
coin as many more half-pence as he pleases: And whereas the said patent neither doth nor can
oblige his majesty's subjects to receive the said half-pence in any payment, but leaves it
to their voluntary choice, because, by law the subject cannot be obliged to take any money
except gold or silver: And whereas, contrary to the letter and meaning of the said patent,
the said Wood hath declared that every person shall be obliged to take five-pence half-penny
of his coin in every payment: And whereas the House of Commons and Privy Council have severally
addressed his most sacred majesty representing the ill consequences which the said coinage
may have upon this kingdom: And lastly, whereas it is universally agreed, that the whole nation
to a man (except Mr. Wood and his confederates) are in the utmost apprehensions of the ruinous
consequences that must follow from the said coinage. Therefore we, whose names are underwritten,
being persons of considerable estates in this kingdom, and residers therein, do unanimously
resolve and declare that we will never receive one farthing or half-penny of the said Wood's
coining, and that we will direct all our tenants to refuse the said coin from any person whatsoever;
of which, that they may not be ignorant, we have sent them a copy of this advertisement, to
be read to them by our stewards, receivers, etc.

I could wish, that a paper of this nature might be drawn up, and signed by two or three hundred
principal gentlemen of this kingdom, and printed copies thereof sent to their several tenants;
I am deceived, if anything could sooner defeat this execrable design of Wood and his accomplices.
This would immediately give the alarm, and set the kingdom on their guard. This would give
courage to the meanest tenant and cottager. How long, O Lord, righteous and true, etc.

I must tell you in particular, Mr. Harding, that you are much to blame. Several hundred persons
have enquired at your house for my Letter to the Shop-keepers, etc., and you had none to sell
them. Pray keep yourself provided with that letter and with this; you have got very well by
the former, but I did not then write for your sake, any more than I do now. Pray advertise
both in every news-paper, and let it not be your fault or mine if our countrymen will not take
warning. I desire you likewise to sell them as cheap as you can.--I am your Servant, M.B.

Aug. 4, 1724.

IV.--'SECOND LETTER ON A REGICIDE PEACE'

BY THE RIGHT HONOURABLE EDMUND BURKE

(I have found the selection of a suitable sample of Burke to be my most difficult task in this
volume. All his writings, as I have pointed out in the general introduction, are, after a sort,
pamphlets; and this of itself was an embarrassment. It was partly complicated and partly lessened
by the fact that the form of his speeches naturally excluded them. Many of his other works--notably
the Thoughts on the Present Discontents, the immortal Reflections on the French Revolution,
and the Appeal from the New Whigs to the Old--were much too long for a scheme in which I have
made it a rule to give in each case entire works or divisions of works. I at last reduced the
suitable candidates to three--the Letter to Sir Hercules Langrishe, that To a Noble Lord, and
the present number of the Letters on a Regicide Peace. The first went as being to some extent
identical in subject with the examples of another writer, Sydney Smith, which I had already
resolved on giving; the second as being too much in the nature of a personal apologia. With
the third, which I looked on at first with least favour, I have become increasingly well satisfied.
It has not the gorgeous rhetoric of The Letter to a Noble Lord, the Reflections, and others.
It has nothing so lively as the contrast between France and Algiers in its immediate predecessor.
It may even seem, to those who have accustomed themselves to think of Burke wholly or mainly
as a gorgeous rhetorician, rather tame as a whole. But if it does not soar, it never droops;
it is admirably proportioned, admirably written, and admirably argued throughout, and it shows
great knowledge and mastery of foreign politics--the point in which English statesmen have
always been weakest. I may add that it seems to me a triumphant refutation of the charge--constantly
brought against Burke not merely by extreme democrats, but by the usual advocate of the juste
milieu,--that in his later years, and especially in these very Letters, he became a mere raving
Gallophobe, with no sense of proportion or circumstance. For my part, I have read scores, probably
hundreds, of books--English, French, and German--on the French Revolution; I have never read
one that made Burke obsolete. Let it only be added that the author, who was born in 1730, was
very near the end of his career--he died next year--when he wrote these letters, and that the
peace proposals which he deprecated, and which he did not a little to avert, were dictated
on the one side by the sobering down of the first Revolutionary fervour under the Directory;
on the other by the persistent ill-success of the Allies, and the conflicts of interest and
principle which had arisen among them.)

My dear Sir--I closed my first letter with serious matter, and I hope it has employed your
thoughts. The system of peace must have a reference to the system of the war. On that ground,
I must therefore again recall your mind to our original opinions, which time and events have
not taught me to vary.

My ideas and my principles led me, in this contest, to encounter France, not as a state, but
as a faction. The vast territorial extent of that country, its immense population, its riches
of production, its riches of commerce and convention--the whole aggregate mass of what, in
ordinary cases, constitutes the force of a state, to me were but objects of secondary consideration.
They might be balanced; and they have been often more than balanced. Great as these things
are, they are not what make the faction formidable. It is the faction that makes them truly
dreadful. That faction is the evil spirit that possesses the body of France; that informs it
as a soul; that stamps upon its ambition, and upon all its pursuits, a characteristic mark,
which strongly distinguishes them from the same general passions, and the same general views,
in other men and in other communities. It is that spirit which inspires into them a new, a
pernicious, a desolating activity. Constituted as France was ten years ago, it was not in that
France to shake, to shatter, and to overwhelm Europe in the manner that we behold. A sure destruction
impends over those infatuated princes, who, in the conflict with this new and unheard-of power,
proceed as if they were engaged in a war that bore a resemblance to their former contests;
or that they can make peace in the spirit of their former arrangements of pacification. Here
the beaten path is the very reverse of the safe road.

As to me, I was always steadily of opinion, that this disorder was not in its nature intermittent.
I conceived that the contest, once begun, could not be laid down again, to be resumed at our
discretion; but that our first struggle with this evil would also be our last. I never thought
we could make peace with the system; because it was not for the sake of an object we pursued
in rivalry with each other, but with the system itself, that we were at war. As I understood
the matter, we were at war not with its conduct, but with its existence; convinced that its
existence and its hostility were the same.

The faction is not local or territorial. It is a general evil. Where it least appears in action,
it is still full of life. In its sleep it recruits its strength, and prepares its exertion.
Its spirit lies deep in the corruption of our common nature. The social order which restrains
it, feeds it. It exists in every country in Europe; and among all orders of men in every country,
who look up to France as to a common head. The centre is there. The circumference is the world
of Europe wherever the race of Europe may be settled. Everywhere else the faction is militant;
in France it is triumphant. In France it is the bank of deposit, and the bank of circulation,
of all the pernicious principles that are forming in every state. It will be folly scarcely
deserving of pity, and too mischievous for contempt, to think of restraining it in any other
country whilst it is predominant there. War, instead of being the cause of its force, has suspended
its operation. It has given a reprieve, at least, to the Christian world.

The true nature of a Jacobin war, in the beginning, was, by most of the Christian powers, felt,
acknowledged, and even in the most precise manner declared. In the joint manifesto, published
by the emperor and the king of Prussia, on the 4th of August, 1792, it is expressed in the
clearest terms, and on principles which could not fail, if they had adhered to them, of classing
those monarchs with the first benefactors of mankind. This manifesto was published, as they
themselves express it, 'to lay open to the present generation, as well as to posterity, their
motives, their intentions, and the disinterestedness of their personal views; taking up arms
for the purpose of preserving social and political order amongst all civilised nations, and
to secure to each state its religion, happiness, independence, territories, and real constitution.'--'On
this ground, they hoped that all empires and all states would be unanimous; and becoming the
firm guardians of the happiness of mankind, that they could not fail to unite their efforts
to rescue a numerous nation from its own fury, to preserve Europe from the return of barbarism,
and the universe from the subversion and anarchy with which it was threatened.' The whole of
that noble performance ought to be read at the first meeting of any congress which may assemble
for the purpose of pacification. In that piece 'these powers expressly renounce all views of
personal aggrandisement,' and confine themselves to objects worthy of so generous, so heroic,
and so perfectly wise and politic an enterprise. It was to the principles of this confederation,
and to no other, that we wished our sovereign and our country to accede, as a part of the commonwealth
of Europe. To these principles with some trifling exceptions and limitations they did fully
accede. And all our friends who took office acceded to the ministry (whether wisely or not),
as I always understood the matter, on the faith and on the principles of that declaration.

As long as these powers flattered themselves that the menace of force would produce the effect
of force, they acted on those declarations: but when their menaces failed of success, their
efforts took a new direction. It did not appear to them that virtue and heroism ought to be
purchased by millions of rix-dollars. It is a dreadful truth, but it is a truth that cannot
be concealed; in ability, in dexterity, in the distinctness of their views, the Jacobins are
our superiors. They saw the thing right from the very beginning. Whatever were the first motives
to the war among politicians, they saw that in its spirit, and for its objects, it was a civil
war; and as such they pursued it. It is a war between the partisans of the ancient, civil,
moral, and political order of Europe, against a sect of fanatical and ambitious atheists which
means to change them all. It is not France extending a foreign empire over other nations; it
is a sect aiming at universal empire, and beginning with the conquest of France. The leaders
of that sect secured the centre of Europe; and that secured, they knew, that whatever might
be the event of battles and sieges, their cause was victorious. Whether its territory had a
little more or a little less peeled from its surface, or whether an island or two was detached
from its commerce, to them was of little moment. The conquest of France was a glorious acquisition.
That once well laid as a basis of empire, opportunities never could be wanting to regain or
to replace what had been lost, and dreadfully to avenge themselves on the faction of their
adversaries.

They saw it was a civil war. It was their business to persuade their adversaries that it ought
to be a foreign war. The Jacobins everywhere set up a cry against the new crusade; and they
intrigued with effect in the cabinet, in the field, and in every private society in Europe.
Their task was not difficult. The condition of princes, and sometimes of first ministers too,
is to be pitied. The creatures of the desk, and the creatures of favour, had no relish for
the principles of the manifestoes. They promised no governments, no regiments, no revenues
from whence emoluments might arise by perquisite or by grant. In truth, the tribe of vulgar
politicians are the lowest of our species. There is no trade so vile and mechanical as government
in their hands. Virtue is not their habit. They are out of themselves in any course of conduct
recommended only by conscience and glory. A large, liberal, and prospective view of the interests
of states passes with them for romance; and the principles that recommend it, for the wanderings
of a disordered imagination. The calculators compute them out of their senses. The jesters
and buffoons shame them out of everything grand and elevated. Littleness in object and in means,
to them appears soundness and sobriety. They think there is nothing worth pursuit but that
which they can handle; which they can measure with a two-foot rule; which they can tell upon
ten fingers.

Without the principles of the Jacobins, perhaps without any principles at all, they played
the game of that faction. There was a beaten road before them. The powers of Europe were armed;
France had always appeared dangerous; the war was easily diverted from France as a faction,
to France as a state. The princes were easily taught to slide back into their old, habitual
course of politics. They were easily led to consider the flames that were consuming France,
not as a warning to protect their own buildings (which were without any party wall, and linked
by a contignation into the edifice of France,) but as a happy occasion for pillaging the goods,
and for carrying off the materials, of their neighbour's house. Their provident fears were
changed into avaricious hopes. They carried on their new designs without seeming to abandon
the principles of their old policy. They pretended to seek, or they flattered themselves that
they sought, in the accession of new fortresses, and new territories, a defensive security.
But the security wanted was against a kind of power which was not so truly dangerous in its
fortresses nor in its territories, as in its spirit and its principles. The aimed, or pretended
to aim, at defending themselves against a danger from which there can be no security in any
defensive plan. If armies and fortresses were a defence against Jacobinism, Louis the Sixteenth
would this day reign a powerful monarch over a happy people.

This error obliged them, even in their offensive operations, to adopt a plan of war, against
the success of which there was something little short of mathematical demonstration. They refused
to take any step which might strike at the heart of affairs. They seemed unwilling to wound
the enemy in any vital part. They acted through the whole, as if they really wished the conservation
of the Jacobin power, as what might be more favourable than the lawful government to the attainment
of the petty objects they looked for. They always kept on the circumference; and the wider
and remoter the circle was, the more eagerly they chose it as their sphere of action in this
centrifugal war. The plan they pursued, in its nature demanded great length of time. In its
execution, they, who went the nearest way to work, were obliged to cover an incredible extent
of country. It left to the enemy every means of destroying this extended line of weakness.
Ill success in any part was sure to defeat the effect of the whole. This is true of Austria.
It is still more true of England. On this false plan, even good fortune, by further weakening
the victor, put him but the further off from his object.

As long as there was any appearance of success, the spirit of aggrandisement, and consequently
the spirit of mutual jealousy, seized upon all the coalesced powers. Some sought an accession
of territory at the expense of France, some at the expense of each other, some at the expense
of third parties; and when the vicissitude of disaster took its turn, they found common distress
a treacherous bond of faith and friendship.

The greatest skill conducting the greatest military apparatus has been employed; but it has
been worse than uselessly employed, through the false policy of the war. The operations of
the field suffered by the errors of the cabinet. If the same spirit continues when peace is
made, the peace will fix and perpetuate all the errors of the war; because it will be made
upon the same false principle. What has been lost in the field, in the field may be regained.
An arrangement of peace in its nature is a permanent settlement; it is the effect of counsel
and deliberation, and not of fortuitous events. If built upon a basis fundamentally erroneous,
it can only be retrieved by some of those unforeseen dispensations, which the all-wise but
mysterious Governor of the world sometimes interposes, to snatch nations from ruin. It would
not be pious error, but mad and impious presumption, for any one to trust in an unknown order
of dispensations, in defiance of the rules of prudence, which are formed upon the known march
of the ordinary providence of God.

It was not of that sort of war that I was amongst the least considerable, but amongst the most
zealous advisers; and it is not by the sort of peace now talked of, that I wish it concluded.
It would answer no great purpose to enter into the particular errors of the war. The whole
has been but one error. It was but nominally a war of alliance. As the combined powers pursued
it there was nothing to hold an alliance together. There could be no tie of honour, in a society
for pillage. There could be no tie of a common interest where the object did not offer such
a division amongst the parties as could well give them a warm concern in the gains of each
other, or could indeed form such a body of equivalents, as might make one of them willing to
abandon a separate object of his ambition for the gratification of any other member of the
alliance. The partition of Poland offered an object of spoil in which the parties might agree.
They were circumjacent, and each might take a portion convenient to his own territory. They
might dispute about the value of their several shares, but the contiguity to each of the demandants
always furnished the means of an adjustment. Though hereafter the world will have cause to
rue this iniquitous measure, and they most who were the most concerned in it, for the moment
there was wherewithal in the object to preserve peace amongst confederates in wrong. But the
spoil of France did not afford the same facilities for accommodation. What might satisfy the
house of Austria in a Flemish frontier, afforded no equivalent to tempt the cupidity of the
king of Prussia. What might be desired by Great Britain in the West Indies, must be coldly
and remotely, if at all, felt as an interest at Vienna; and it would be felt as something worse
than a negative interest at Madrid. Austria, long possessed with unwise and dangerous designs
on Italy, could not be very much in earnest about the conservation of the old patrimony of
the house of Savoy; and Sardinia, who owed to an Italian force all her means of shutting out
France from Italy, of which she has been supposed to hold the key, would not purchase the means
of strength upon one side by yielding it on the other. She would not readily give the possession
of Novara for the hope of Savoy. No continental power was willing to lose any of its continental
objects for the increase of the naval power of Great Britain; and Great Britain would not give
up any of the objects she sought for as the means of an increase to her naval power, to further
their aggrandisement.

The moment this war came to be considered as a war merely of profit, the actual circumstances
are such that it never could become really a war of alliance. Nor can the peace be a peace
of alliance, until things are put upon their right bottom.

I do not find it denied that when a treaty is entered into for peace, a demand will be made
on the regicides to surrender a great part of their conquests on the continent. Will they,
in the present state of the war, make that surrender without an equivalent? This continental
cession must of course be made in favour of that party in the alliance that has suffered losses.
That party has nothing to furnish towards an equivalent. What equivalent, for instance, has
Holland to offer, who has lost her all? What equivalent can come from the Emperor, every part
of whose territories contiguous to France is already within the pale of the regicide dominions?
What equivalent has Sardinia to offer for Savoy and for Nice, I may say for her whole being?
What has she taken from the faction of France? she has lost very near her all; and she has
gained nothing. What equivalent has Spain to give? Alas! she has already paid for her own ransom
the fund of equivalent, and a dreadful equivalent it is, to England and to herself. But I put
Spain out of the question; she is a province of the Jacobin empire, and she must make peace
or war according to the orders she receives from the directory of assassins. In effect and
substance, her crown is a fief of regicide.

Whence then can the compensation be demanded? Undoubtedly from that power which alone has made
some conquests. That power is England. Will the allies then give away their ancient patrimony,
that England may keep islands in the West Indies? They never can protract the war in good earnest
for that object; nor can they act in concert with us, in our refusal to grant anything towards
their redemption. In that case we are thus situated. Either we must give Europe, bound hand
and foot, to France; or we must quit the West Indies without any one object, great or small,
towards indemnity and security. I repeat it, without any advantage whatever: because, supposing
that our conquest could comprise all that France ever possessed in the tropical America, it
never can amount in any fair estimation to a fair equivalent for Holland, for the Austrian
Netherlands, for the lower Germany, that is, for the whole ancient kingdom or circle of Burgundy,
now under the yoke of regicide, to say nothing of almost all Italy under the same barbarous
domination. If we treat in the present situation of things, we have nothing in our hands that
can redeem Europe. Nor is the Emperor, as I have observed, more rich in the fund of equivalents.

If we look to our stock in the eastern world, our most valuable and systematic acquisitions
are made in that quarter. Is it from France they are made? France has but one or two contemptible
factories, subsisting by the offal of the private fortunes of English individuals to support
them, in any part of India. I look on the taking of the Cape of Good Hope as the securing of
a post of great moment. It does honour to those who planned, and to those who executed, that
enterprise: but I speak of it always as comparatively good; as good as anything can be in a
scheme of war that repels us from a centre, and employs all our forces where nothing can be
finally decisive. But giving, as I freely give, every possible credit to these eastern conquests,
I ask one question,--on whom are they made? It is evident, that if we can keep our eastern
conquests we keep them not at the expense of France, but at the expense of Holland our ally;
of Holland, the immediate cause of the war, the nation whom we had undertaken to protect, and
not of the republic which it was our business to destroy. If we return the African and the
Asiatic conquests, we put them into the hands of a nominal state (to that Holland is reduced)
unable to retain them; and which will virtually leave them under the direction of France. If
we withhold them, Holland declines still more as a state. She loses so much carrying trade,
and that means of keeping up the small degree of naval power she holds; for which policy alone,
and not for any commercial gain, she maintains the Cape, or any settlement beyond it. In that
case, resentment, faction, and even necessity, will throw her more and more into the power
of the new, mischievous republic. But on the probable state of Holland I shall say more, when
in this correspondence I come to talk over with you the state in which any sort of Jacobin
peace will leave all Europe.

So far as to the East Indies.

As to the West Indies, indeed as to either, if we look for matter of exchange in order to ransom
Europe, it is easy to show that we have taken a terribly roundabout road. I cannot conceive,
even if, for the sake of holding conquests there, we should refuse to redeem Holland, and the
Austrian Netherlands, and the hither Germany, that Spain, merely as she is Spain, (and forgetting
that the regicide ambassador governs at Madrid,) will see, with perfect satisfaction, Great
Britain sole mistress of the isles. In truth it appears to me, that, when we come to balance
our account, we shall find in the proposed peace only the pure, simple, and unendowed charms
of Jacobin amity. We shall have the satisfaction of knowing, that no blood or treasure has
been spared by the allies for support of the regicide system. We shall reflect at leisure on
one great truth, that it was ten times more easy totally to destroy the system itself, than,
when established, it would be to reduce its power; and that this republic, most formidable
abroad, was of all things the weakest at home; that her frontier was terrible, her interior
feeble; that it was matter of choice to attack her where she is invincible, and to spare her
where she was ready to dissolve by her own internal disorders. We shall reflect, that our plan
was good neither for offence nor defence.

It would not be at all difficult to prove, that an army of a hundred thousand men, horse, foot,
and artillery, might have been employed against the enemy on the very soil which he has usurped,
at a far less expense than has been squandered away upon tropical adventures. In these adventures
it was not an enemy we had to vanquish, but a cemetery to conquer. In carrying on the war in
the West Indies, the hostile sword is merciful; the country in which we engage is the dreadful
enemy. There the European conqueror finds a cruel defeat in the very fruits of his success.
Every advantage is but a new demand on England for recruits to the West Indian grave. In a
West India war, the regicides have, for their troops, a race of fierce barbarians, to whom
the poisoned air, in which our youth inhale certain death, is salubrity and life. To them the
climate is the surest and most faithful of allies.

Had we carried on the war on the side of France which looks towards the Channel or the Atlantic,
we should have attacked our enemy on his weak and unarmed side. We should not have to reckon
on the loss of a man who did not fall in battle. We should have an ally in the heart of the
country, who, to our hundred thousand, would at one time have added eighty thousand men at
the least, and all animated by principle, by enthusiasm, and by vengeance; motives which secured
them to the cause in a very different manner from some of those allies whom we subsidised with
millions. This ally, (or rather this principal in the war,) by the confession of the regicide
himself, was more formidable to him than all his other foes united. Warring there, we should
have led our arms to the capital of Wrong. Defeated, we could not fail (proper precautions
taken) of a sure retreat. Stationary, and only supporting the royalists, an impenetrable barrier,
an impregnable rampart, would have been formed between the enemy and his naval power. We are
probably the only nation who have declined to act against an enemy, when it might have been
done in his own country; and who having an armed, a powerful, and a long-victorious ally in
that country, declined all effectual co-operation, and suffered him to perish for want of support.
On the plan of a war in France, every advantage that our allies might obtain would be doubled
in its effect. Disasters on the one side might have a fair chance of being compensated by victories
on the other. Had we brought the main of our force to bear upon that quarter, all the operations
of the British and Imperial crowns would have been combined. The war would have had system,
correspondence, and a certain direction. But as the war has been pursued, the operations of
the two crowns have not the smallest degree of mutual bearing or relation.

Had acquisitions in the West Indies been our object, on success in France, everything reasonable
in those remote parts might be demanded with decorum, and justice, and a sure effect. Well
might we call for a recompence in America, for those services to which Europe owed its safety.
Having abandoned this obvious policy connected with principle, we have seen the regicide power
taking the reverse course, and making real conquests in the West Indies, to which all our dear-bought
advantages (if we could hold them) are mean and contemptible. The noblest island within the
tropics, worth all that we possess put together, is, by the vassal Spaniard, delivered into
her hands. The island of Hispaniola (of which we have but one poor corner, by a slippery hold)
is perhaps equal to England in extent, and in fertility is far superior. The part possessed
by Spain, of that great island, made for the seat and centre of a tropical empire, was not
improved, to be sure, as the French division had been, before it was systematically destroyed
by the cannibal republic; but it is not only the far larger, but the far more salubrious and
more fertile part.

It was delivered into the hands of the barbarians without, as I can find, any public reclamation
on our part, not only in contravention to one of the fundamental treaties that compose the
public law of Europe, but in defiance of the fundamental colonial policy of Spain herself.
This part of the treaty of Utrecht was made for great general ends unquestionably; but whilst
it provided for those general ends, it was in affirmance of that particular policy. It was
not to injure, but to save Spain by making a settlement of her estate, which prohibited her
to alienate to France. It is her policy not to see the balance of West Indian power overturned
by France or by Great Britain. Whilst the monarchies subsisted, this unprincipled cession was
what the influence of the elder branch of the house of Bourbon never dared to attempt on the
younger: but cannibal terror has been more powerful than family influence. The Bourbon monarchy
of Spain is united to the republic of France, by what may be truly called the ties of blood.

By this measure the balance of power in the West Indies is totally destroyed. It has followed
the balance of power in Europe. It is not alone what shall be left nominally to the assassins
that is theirs. Theirs is the whole empire of Spain in America. That stroke finishes all. I
should be glad to see our suppliant negotiator in the act of putting his feather to the ear
of the directory, to make it unclinch the fist; and, by his tickling, to charm that rich prize
out of the iron gripe of robbery and ambition! It does not require much sagacity to discern
that no power wholly baffled and defeated in Europe can flatter itself with conquests in the
West Indies. In that state of things it can neither keep nor hold. No! It cannot even long
make war if the grand bank and deposit of its force is at all in the West Indies. But here
a scene opens to my view too important to pass by, perhaps too critical to touch. Is it possible
that it should not present itself in all its relations to a mind habituated to consider either
war or peace on a large scale, or as one whole?

Unfortunately other ideas have prevailed. A remote, an expensive, a murderous, and, in the
end, an unproductive adventure, carried on upon ideas of mercantile knight-errantry, without
any of the generous wildness of Quixotism, is considered as sound, solid sense; and a war in
a wholesome climate, a war at our door, a war directly on the enemy, a war in the heart of
his country, a war in concert with an internal ally, and in combination with the external,
is regarded as folly and romance.

My dear friend, I hold it impossible that these considerations should have escaped the statesmen
on both sides of the water, and on both sides of the House of Commons. How a question of peace
can be discussed without having them in view, I cannot imagine. If you or others see a way
out of these difficulties I am happy. I see, indeed, a fund from whence equivalents will be
proposed. I see it. But I cannot just now touch it. It is a question of high moment. It opens
another Iliad of woes to Europe.

Such is the time proposed for making a common political peace, to which no one circumstance
is propitious. As to the grand principle of the peace, it is left, as if by common consent,
wholly out of the question.

Viewing things in this light, I have frequently sunk into a degree of despondency and dejection
hardly to be described; yet out of the profoundest depths of this despair, an impulse, which
I have in vain endeavoured to resist, has urged me to raise one feeble cry against this unfortunate
coalition which is formed at home, in order to make a coalition with France, subversive of
the whole ancient order of the world. No disaster of war, no calamity of season, could ever
strike me with half the horror which I felt from what is introduced to us by this junction
of parties, under the soothing name of peace. We are apt to speak of a low and pusillanimous
spirit as the ordinary cause by which dubious wars terminated in humiliating treaties. It is
here the direct contrary. I am perfectly astonished at the boldness of character, at the intrepidity
of mind, the firmness of nerve, in those who are able with deliberation to face the perils
of Jacobin fraternity.

This fraternity is indeed so terrible in its nature, and in its manifest consequences, that
there is no way of quieting our apprehensions about it, but by totally putting it out of sight,
by substituting for it, through a sort of periphrasis, something of an ambiguous quality, and
describing such a connexion under the terms of 'the usual relations of peace and amity.' By
this means the proposed fraternity is hustled in the crowd of those treaties, which imply no
change in the public law of Europe, and which do not upon system affect the interior condition
of nations. It is confounded with those conventions in which matters of dispute among sovereign
powers are compromised, by the taking off a duty more or less, by the surrender of a frontier
town, or a disputed district, on the one side or the other; by pactions in which the pretensions
of families are settled, (as by a conveyancer, making family substitutions and successions,)
without any alterations in the laws, manners, religion, privileges, and customs, of the cities,
or territories, which are the subject of such arrangements.

All this body of old conventions, composing the vast and voluminous collection called the corps
diplomatique, forms the code or statute law, as the methodised reasonings of the great publicists
and jurists from the digest and jurisprudence of the Christian world. In these treasures are
to be found the usual relations of peace and amity in civilised Europe; and there the relations
of ancient France were to be found amongst the rest.

The present system in France is not the ancient France. It is not the ancient France with ordinary
ambition and ordinary means. It is not a new power of an old kind. It is a new power of a new
species. When such a questionable shape is to be admitted for the first time into the brotherhood
of Christendom, it is not a mere matter of idle curiosity to consider how far it is in its
nature alliable with the rest, or whether 'the relations of peace and amity' with this new
state are likely to be of the same nature with the usual relations of the states of Europe.

The Revolution in France had the relation of France to other nations as one of its principal
objects. The changes made by that Revolution were not the better to accommodate her to the
old and usual relations, but to produce new ones. The Revolution was made, not to make France
free, but to make her formidable; not to make her a neighbour, but a mistress; not to make
her more observant of laws, but to put her in a condition to impose them. To make France truly
formidable it was necessary that France should be new modelled. They, who have not followed
the train of the late proceedings, have been led by deceitful representations (which deceit
made a part in the plan) to conceive that this totally new model of a state, in which nothing
escaped a change, was made with a view to its internal relations only.

In the Revolution of France two sorts of men were principally concerned in giving a character
and determination to its pursuits: the philosophers and the politicians. They took different
ways, but they met in the same end. The philosophers had one predominant object, which they
pursued with a fanatical fury, that is, the utter extirpation of religion. To that every question
of empire was subordinate. They had rather domineer in a parish of atheists, than rule over
a Christian world. Their temporal ambition was wholly subservient to their proselytising spirit,
in which they were not exceeded by Mahomet himself.

They, who have made but superficial studies in the natural history of the human mind, have
been taught to look on religious opinions as the only cause of enthusiastic zeal and sectarian
propagation. But there is no doctrine whatever, on which men can warm, that is not capable
of the very same effect. The social nature of man impels him to propagate his principles, as
much as physical impulses urge him to propagate his kind. The passions give zeal and vehemence.
The understanding bestows design and system. The whole man moves under the discipline of his
opinions. Religion is among the most powerful causes of enthusiasm. When anything concerning
it becomes an object of much meditation, it cannot be indifferent to the mind. They who do
not love religion, hate it. The rebels to God perfectly abhor the author of their being. They
hate Him 'with all their heart, with all their mind, with all their soul, and with all their
strength.' He never presents Himself to their thoughts but to menace and alarm them. They cannot
strike the sun out of heaven, but they are able to raise a smouldering smoke that obscures
Him from their own eyes. Not being able to revenge themselves on God, they have a delight in
vicariously defacing, degrading, torturing, and tearing in pieces, His image in man. Let no
one judge of them by what he has conceived of them, when they were not incorporated, and had
no lead. They were then only passengers in a common vehicle. They were then carried along with
the general motion of religion in the community, and, without being aware of it, partook of
its influence. In that situation, at worst, their nature was left free to counterwork their
principles. They despaired of giving any very general currency to their opinions. They considered
them as a reserved privilege for the chosen few. But when the possibility of dominion, lead,
and propagation, presented itself, and that the ambition, which before had so often made them
hypocrites, might rather gain than lose by a daring avowal of their sentiments, then the nature
of this infernal spirit, which has 'evil for its good,' appeared in its full perfection. Nothing
indeed but the possession of some power can with any certainty discover what at the bottom
is the true character of any man. Without reading the speeches of Vergniaux, Françias of Nantz,
Isnard, and some others of that sort, it would not be easy to conceive the passion, rancour,
and malice of their tongues and hearts. They worked themselves up to a perfect phrensy against
religion and all its professors. They tore the reputation of the clergy to pieces by their
infuriated declamations and invectives, before they lacerated their bodies by their massacres.
This fanatical atheism left out, we omit the principal feature in the French Revolution, and
a principal consideration with regard to the effects to be expected from a peace with it.

The other sort of men were the politicians. To them, who had little or not at all reflected
on the subject, religion was in itself no object of love or hatred. They disbelieved it, and
that was all. Neutral with regard to that object, they took the side which in the present state
of things might best answer their purposes. They soon found that they could not do without
the philosophers; and the philosophers soon made them sensible that the destruction of religion
was to supply them with means of conquest first at home, and then abroad. The philosophers
were the active internal agitators, and supplied the spirit and principles: the second gave
the practical direction. Sometimes the one predominated in the composition, sometimes the other.
The only difference between them was in the necessity of concealing the general design for
a time, and in their dealing with foreign nations; the fanatics going straight forward and
openly, the politicians by the surer mode of zigzag. In the course of events this, among other
causes, produced fierce and bloody contentions between them. But at the bottom they thoroughly
agreed in all the objects of ambition and irreligion, and substantially in all the means of
promoting these ends. Without question, to bring about the unexampled event of the French Revolution,
the concurrence of a very great number of views and passions was necessary. In that stupendous
work, no one principle, by which the human mind may have its faculties at once invigorated
and depraved, was left unemployed; but I can speak it to a certainty, and support it by undoubted
proofs, that the ruling principle of those who acted in the Revolution as statesmen, had the
exterior aggrandisement of France as their ultimate end in the most minute part of the internal
changes that were made. We, who of late years have been drawn from an attention to foreign
affairs by the importance of our domestic discussions, cannot easily form a conception of the
general eagerness of the active and energetic part of the French nation, itself the most active
and energetic of all nations, previous to its Revolution, upon that subject. I am convinced
that the foreign speculators in France, under the old government, were twenty to one of the
same description then or now in England; and few of that description there were, who did not
emulously set forward the Revolution. The whole official system, particularly in the diplomatic
part, the regulars, the irregulars, down to the clerks in office, (a corps, without comparison,
more numerous than the same amongst us,) co-operated in it. All the intriguers in foreign politics,
all the spies, all the intelligencers, actually or late in function, all the candidates for
that sort of employment, acted solely upon that principle.

On that system of aggrandisement there was but one mind: but two violent factions arose about
the means. The first wished France, diverted from the politics of the continent, to attend
solely to her marine, to feed it by an increase of commerce, and thereby to overpower England
on her own element. They contended, that if England were disabled, the powers on the continent
would fall into their proper subordination; that it was England which deranged the whole continental
system of Europe. The others, who were by far the more numerous, though not the most outwardly
prevalent at court, considered this plan for France as contrary to her genius, her situation,
and her natural means. They agree as to the ultimate object, the reduction of the British power,
and, if possible, its naval power; but they considered an ascendency on the continent as a
necessary preliminary to that undertaking. They argued, that the proceedings of England herself
had proved the soundness of this policy. That her greatest and ablest statesmen had not considered
the support of a continental balance against France as a deviation from the principle of her
naval power, but as one of the most effectual modes of carrying it into effect. That such had
been her policy ever since the Revolution, during which period the naval strength of Great
Britain had gone on increasing in the direct ratio of her interference in the politics of the
continent. With much stronger reason ought the politics of France to take the same direction;
as well for pursuing objects which her situation would dictate to her, though England had no
existence, as for counteracting the politics of that nation; to France continental politics
are primary; they looked on them only of secondary consideration to England, and, however necessary,
but as means necessary to an end.

What is truly astonishing, the partisans of those two opposite systems were at once prevalent,
and at once employed, and in the very same transactions--the one ostensibly, the other secretly,
during the latter part of the reign of Louis XV. Nor was there one court in which an ambassador
resided on the part of the ministers, in which another, as a spy on him, did not also reside
on the part of the king. They who pursued the scheme for keeping peace on the continent, and
particularly with Austria, acting officially and publicly, the other faction counteracting
and opposing them. These private agents were continually going from their function to the Bastile,
and from the Bastile to employment, and favour again. An inextricable cabal was formed, some
of persons of rank, others of subordinates. But by this means the corps of politicians was
augmented in number, and the whole formed a body of active, adventuring, ambitious, discontented
people, despising the regular ministry, despising the courts at which they were employed, despising
the court which employed them.

The unfortunate Louis the Sixteenth was not the first cause of the evil by which he suffered.
He came to it, as to a sort of inheritance, by the false politics of his immediate predecessor.
This system of dark and perplexed intrigue had come to its perfection before he came to the
throne: and even then the Revolution strongly operated in all its causes.

There was no point on which the discontented diplomatic politicians so bitterly arraigned their
cabinet, as for the decay of French influence in all others. From quarrelling with the court,
they began to complain of monarchy itself, as a system of government too variable for any regular
plan of national aggrandisement. They observed, that in that sort of regimen too much depended
on the personal character of the prince; that the vicissitudes produced by the succession of
princes of a different character, and even the vicissitudes produced in the same man, by the
different views and inclinations belonging to youth, manhood, and age, disturbed and distracted
the policy of a country made by nature for extensive empire, or, what was still more to their
taste, for that sort of general over-ruling influence which prepared empire or supplied the
place of it. They had continually in their hands the observations of Machiavel on Livy. They
had Montesquieu's Grandeur et Décadence des Romains as a manual; and they compared, with mortification,
the systematic proceedings of a Roman senate with the fluctuations of a monarchy. They observed
the very small additions of territory which all the power of France, actuated by all the ambition
of France, had acquired in two centuries. The Romans had frequently acquired more in a single
year. They severely and in every part of it criticised the reign of Louis XIV., whose irregular
and desultory ambition had more provoked than endangered Europe. Indeed, they who will be at
the pains of seriously considering the history of that period will see that those French politicians
had some reason. They who will not take the trouble of reviewing it through all its wars and
all its negotiations, will consult the short but judicious criticism of the Marquis de Montalembert
on that subject. It may be read separately from his ingenious system of fortification and military
defence, on the practical merit of which I am unable to form a judgment.

The diplomatic politicians of whom I speak, and who formed by far the majority in that class,
made disadvantageous comparisons even between their more legal and formalising monarchy, and
the monarchies of other states, as a system of power and influence. They observed that France
not only lost ground herself, but, through the languor and unsteadiness of her pursuits, and
from her aiming through commerce at naval force which she never could attain without losing
more on one side than she could gain on the other, that three great powers, each of them (as
military states) capable of balancing her, had grown up on the continent. Russia and Prussia
had been created almost within memory; and Austria, though not a new power, and even curtailed
in territory, was, by the very collision in which she lost that territory, greatly improved
in her military discipline and force. During the reign of Maria Theresa the interior economy
of the country was made more to correspond with the support of great armies than formerly it
had been. As to Prussia, a merely military power, they observed that one war had enriched her
with as considerable a conquest as France had acquired in centuries. Russia had broken the
Turkish power by which Austria might be, as formerly she had been, balanced in favour of France.
They felt it with pain, that the two northern powers of Sweden and Denmark were in general
under the sway of Russia; or that, at best, France kept up a very doubtful conflict, with many
fluctuations of fortune, and at an enormous expense, in Sweden. In Holland, the French party
seemed, if not extinguished, at least utterly obscured, and kept under by a stadtholder, leaning
for support sometimes on Great Britain, sometimes on Prussia, sometimes on both, never on France.
Even the spreading of the Bourbon family had become merely a family accommodation; and had
little effect on the national politics. This alliance, they said, extinguished Spain by destroying
all its energy, without adding anything to the real power of France in the accession of the
forces of its great rival. In Italy, the same family accommodation, the same national insignificance,
were equally visible. What cure for the radical weakness of the French monarchy, to which all
the means which wit could devise, or nature and fortune could bestow, towards universal empire,
was not of force to give life, or vigour, or consistency,--but in a Republic? Out the word
came; and it never went back.

Whether they reasoned, right or wrong, or that there was some mixture of right and wrong in
their reasoning, I am sure, that in this manner they felt and reasoned. The different effects
of a great military and ambitious republic, and of a monarchy of the same description, were
constantly in their mouths. The principle was ready to operate when opportunities should offer,
which few of them indeed foresaw in the extent in which they were afterwards presented; but
these opportunities, in some degree or other, they all ardently wished for.

When I was in Paris in 1773, the treaty of 1756 between Austria and France was deplored as
a national calamity; because it united France in friendship with a power at whose expense alone
they could hope any continental aggrandisement. When the first partition of Poland was made,
in which France had no share, and which had further aggrandised every one of the three powers
of which they were most jealous, I found them in a perfect phrensy of rage and indignation:
not that they were hurt at the shocking and uncoloured violence and injustice of that partition,
but at the debility, improvidence, and want of activity, in their government, in not preventing
it as a means of aggrandisement to their rivals, or in not contriving, by exchanges of some
kind or other, to obtain their share of advantage from that robbery.

In that or nearly in that state of things and of opinions, came the Austrian match; which promised
to draw the knot, as afterwards in effect it did, still more closely between the old rival
houses. This added exceedingly to their hatred and contempt of their monarchy. It was for this
reason that the late glorious queen, who on all accounts was formed to produce general love
and admiration, and whose life was as mild and beneficent as her death was beyond example great
and heroic, became so very soon and so very much the object of an implacable rancour, never
to be extinguished but in her blood. When I wrote my letter in answer to M. de Menonville,
in the beginning of January, 1791, I had good reason for thinking that this description of
revolutionists did not so early nor so steadily point their murderous designs at the martyr
king as at the royal heroine. It was accident, and the momentary depression of that part of
the faction, that gave to the husband the happy priority in death.

From this their restless desire of an over-ruling influence, they bent a very great part of
their designs and efforts to revive the old French party, which was a democratic party in Holland,
and to make a revolution there. They were happy at the troubles which the singular imprudence
of Joseph the Second had stirred up in the Austrian Netherlands. They rejoiced when they saw
him irritate his subjects, profess philosophy, send away the Dutch garrisons, and dismantle
his fortifications. As to Holland, they never forgave either the king or the ministry, for
suffering that object, which they justly looked on as principal in their design of reducing
the power of England, to escape out of their hands. This was the true secret of the commercial
treaty, made, on their part, against all the old rules and principles of commerce, with a view
of diverting the English nation, by a pursuit of immediate profit, from an attention to the
progress of France in its designs upon that republic. The system of the economists, which led
to the general opening of commerce, facilitated that treaty, but did not produce it. They were
in despair when they found that by the vigour of Mr. Pitt, supported in this point by Mr. Fox
and the opposition, the object to which they had sacrificed their manufactures was lost to
their ambition.

This eager desire of raising France from the condition into which she had fallen, as they conceived,
from her monarchical imbecility, had been the main-spring of their precedent interference in
that unhappy American quarrel, the bad effects of which to this nation have not, as yet, fully
disclosed themselves. These sentiments had been long lurking in their breasts, though their
views were only discovered now and then, in heat and as by escapes; but on this occasion they
exploded suddenly. They were professed with ostentation and propagated with zeal. These sentiments
were not produced, as some think, by their American alliance. The American alliance was produced
by their republican principles and republican policy. This new relation undoubtedly did much.
The discourses and cabals that it produced, the intercourse that it established, and, above
all, the example, which made it seem practicable to establish a republic in a great extent
of country, finished the work, and gave to that part of the revolutionary faction a degree
of strength which required other energies than the late king possessed, to resist, or even
to restrain. It spread everywhere; but it was nowhere more prevalent than in the heart of the
court. The palace of Versailles, by its language, seemed a forum of democracy. To have pointed
out to most of those politicians, from their dispositions and movements, what has since happened,
the fall of their own monarchy, of their own laws, of their own religion, would have been to
furnish a motive the more for pushing forward a system on which they considered all these things
as encumbrances. Such in truth they were. And we have seen them succeed not only in the destruction
of their monarchy, but in all the objects of ambition that they proposed from that destruction.
When I contemplate the scheme on which France is formed, and when I compare it with these systems,
with which it is, and ever must be, in conflict, those things which seem as defects in her
polity are the very things which make me tremble. The states of the Christian world have grown
up to their present magnitude in a great length of time, and by a great variety of accidents.
They have been improved to what we see them with greater or less degrees of felicity and skill.
Not one of them has been formed upon a regular plan or with any unity of design. As their constitutions
are not systematical, they have not been directed to any peculiar end, eminently distinguished,
and superseding every other. The objects which they embrace are of the greatest possible variety,
and have become in a manner infinite. In all these old countries the state has been made to
the people, and not the people conformed to the state. Every state has pursued not only every
sort of social advantage, but it has cultivated the welfare of every individual. His wants,
his wishes, even his tastes, have been consulted. This comprehensive scheme virtually produced
a degree of personal liberty in forms the most adverse to it. That liberty was found, under
monarchies styled absolute, in a degree unknown to the ancient commonwealths. From hence the
powers of all our modern states meet, in all their movements, with some obstruction. It is
therefore no wonder, that, when these states are to be considered as machines to operate for
some one great end, this dissipated and balanced force is not easily concentred, or made to
bear with the whole force of the nation upon one point.

The British state is, without question, that which pursues the greatest variety of ends, and
is the least disposed to sacrifice any one of them to another, or to the whole. It aims at
taking in the entire circle of human desires, and securing for them their fair enjoyment. Our
legislature has been ever closely connected, in its most efficient part, with individual feeling,
and individual interest. Personal liberty, the most lively of these feelings and the most important
of these interests, which in other European countries has rather arisen from the system of
manners and the habitudes of life than from the laws of the state, (in which it flourished
more from neglect than attention,) in England has been a direct object of government.

On this principle England would be the weakest power in the whole system. Fortunately, however,
the great riches of this kingdom, arising from a variety of causes, and the disposition of
the people, which is as great to spend as to accumulate, has easily afforded a disposable surplus
that gives a mighty momentum to the state. This difficulty, with these advantages to overcome
it, has called forth the talents of the English financiers, who, by the surplus of industry
poured out by prodigality, have outdone everything which has been accomplished in other nations.
The present minister has outdone his predecessors; and, as a minister of revenue, is far above
my power of praise. But still there are cases in which England feels more than several others
(though they all feel) the perplexity of an immense body of balanced advantages, and of individual
demands, and of some irregularity in the whole mass.

France differs essentially from all those governments, which are formed without system, which
exist by habit, and which are confused with the multitude, and with the complexity of their
pursuits. What now stands as government in France is struck out at a heat. The design is wicked,
immoral, impious, oppressive; but it is spirited and daring; it is systematic; it is simple
in its principle; it has unity and consistency in perfection. In that country entirely to cut
off a branch of commerce, to extinguish a manufacture, to destroy the circulation of money,
to violate credit, to suspend the course of agriculture, even to burn a city, or to lay waste
a province of their own, does not cost them a moment's anxiety. To them the will, the wish,
the want, the liberty, the toil, the blood of individuals, is as nothing. Individuality is
left out of their scheme of government. The state is all in all. Everything is referred to
the production of force; afterwards, everything is trusted to the use of it. It is military
in its principle, in its maxims, in its spirit, and in all its movements. The state has dominion
and conquest for its sole objects; dominion over minds by proselytism, over bodies by arms.

Thus constituted, with an immense body of natural means which are lessened in their amount
only to be increased in their effect, France has, since the accomplishment of the Revolution,
a complete unity in its direction. It has destroyed every resource of the state which depends
upon opinion and the good-will of individuals. The riches of convention disappear. The advantages
of nature in some measure remain: even these, I admit, are astonishingly lessened; the command
over what remains is complete and absolute. We go about asking when assignats will expire,
and we laugh at the last price of them. But what signifies the fate of those tickets of despotism?
The despotism will find despotic means of supply. They have found the short cut to the productions
of nature, while others, in pursuit of them, are obliged to wind through the labyrinth of a
very intricate state of society. They seize upon the fruit of the labour; they seize upon the
labourer himself. Were France but half of what it is in population, in compactness, in applicability
of its force, situated as it is, and being what it is, it would be too strong for most of the
states of Europe, constituted as they are, and proceeding as they proceed. Would it be wise
to estimate what the world of Europe, as well as the world of Asia, had to dread from Genghiz
Khân, upon a contemplation of the resources of the cold and barren spot in the remotest Tartary,
from whence first issued that scourge of the human race? Ought we to judge from the excise
and stamp duties of the rocks, or from the paper circulation of the sands of Arabia, the power
by which Mahomet and his tribes laid hold at once on the two most powerful empires of the world;
beat one of them totally to the ground, broke to pieces the other, and, in not much longer
space of time than I have lived, overturned governments, laws, manners, religion, and extended
an empire from the Indus to the Pyrenees?

Material resources never have supplied, nor ever can supply, the want of unity in design, and
constancy in pursuit. But unity in design, and perseverance and boldness in pursuit, have never
wanted resources, and never will. We have not considered as we ought the dreadful energy of
a state in which the property has nothing to do with the government. Reflect, my dear Sir,
reflect again and again, on a government, in which the property is in complete subjection,
and where nothing rules but the mind of desperate men. The condition of a commonwealth not
governed by its property was a combination of things which the learned and ingenious speculator
Harrington, who has tossed about society into all forms, never could imagine to be possible.
We have seen it; the world has felt it; and if the world will shut their eyes to this state
of things, they will feel it more. The rulers there have found their resources in crimes. The
discovery is dreadful; the mine exhaustless. They have everything to gain, and they have nothing
to lose. They have a boundless inheritance in hope; and there is no medium for them, betwixt
the highest elevation, and death with infamy. Never can they, who; from the miserable servitude
of the desk, have been raised to empire, again submit to the bondage of a starving bureau,
or the profit of copying music, or writing plaidoyers by the sheet. It has made me often smile
in bitterness, when I have heard talk of an indemnity to such men, provided they return to
their allegiance.

From all this, what is my inference? It is, that this new system of robbery in France cannot
be rendered safe by any art; that it must be destroyed, or that it will destroy all Europe;
that to destroy that enemy, by some means or other, the force opposed to it should be made
to bear some analogy and resemblance to the force and spirit which that system exerts; that
war ought to be made against it, in its vulnerable parts. These are my inferences. In one word,
with this republic nothing independent can co-exist The errors of Louis XVI. were more pardonable
to prudence, than any of those of the same kind into which the allied courts may fall. They
have the benefit of his dreadful example.

The unhappy Louis XVI. was a man of the best intentions that probably ever reigned. He was
by no means deficient in talents. He had a most laudable desire to supply by general reading,
and even by the acquisition of elemental knowledge, an education in all points originally defective;
but nobody told him, (and it was no wonder he should not himself divine it,) that the world
of which he read, and the world in which he lived, were no longer the same. Desirous of doing
everything for the best, fearful of cabal, distrusting his own judgment, he sought his ministers
of all kinds upon public testimony. But as courts are the field for caballers, the public is
the theatre for mountebanks and impostors. The cure for both those evils is in the discernment
of the prince. But an accurate and penetrating discernment is what in a young prince could
not be looked for.

His conduct in its principle was not unwise; but, like most other of his well-meant designs,
it failed in his hands. It failed partly from mere ill-fortune, to which speculators are rarely
pleased to assign that very large share to which she is justly entitled in all human affairs.
The failure, perhaps, in part was owing to his suffering his system to be vitiated and disturbed
by those intrigues, which it is, humanly speaking, impossible wholly to prevent in courts,
or indeed under any form of government. However, with these aberrations, he gave himself over
to a succession of the statesmen of public opinion. In other things he thought that he might
be a king on the terms of his predecessors. He was conscious of the purity of his heart and
the general good tendency of his government. He flattered himself, as most men in his situation
will, that he might consult his ease without danger to his safety. It is not at all wonderful
that both he and his ministers, giving way abundantly in other respects to innovation, should
take up in policy with the tradition of their monarchy. Under his ancestors the monarchy had
subsisted, and even been strengthened, by the generation or support of republics. First, the
Swiss republics grew under the guardianship of the French monarchy. The Dutch republics were
hatched and cherished under the same incubation. Afterwards, a republican constitution was,
under the influence of France, established in the empire against the pretensions of its chief.
Even whilst the monarchy of France, by a series of wars and negotiations, and lastly by the
treaties of Westphalia, had obtained the establishment of the Protestants in Germany as a law
of the empire, the same monarchy under Louis XIII. had force enough to destroy the republican
system of the Protestants at home.

Louis XVI. was a diligent reader of history. But the very lamp of prudence blinded him. The
guide of human life led him astray. A silent revolution in the moral world preceded the political,
and prepared it. It became of more importance than ever what examples were given, and what
measures were adopted. Their causes no longer lurked in the recesses of cabinets, or in the
private conspiracies of the factious. They were no longer to be controlled by the force and
influence of the grandees, who formerly had been able to stir up troubles by their discontents,
and to quiet them by their corruption. The chain of subordination, even in cabal and sedition,
was broken in its most important links. It was no longer the great and the populace. Other
interests were formed, other dependencies, other connexions, other communications. The middle
classes had swelled far beyond their former proportion. Like whatever is the most effectively
rich and great in society, these classes became the seat of all the active politics; and the
preponderating weight to decide on them. There were all the energies by which fortune is acquired;
there the consequence of their success. There were all the talents which assert their pretensions,
and are impatient of the place which settled society prescribes to them. These descriptions
had got between the great and the populace; and the influence on the lower classes was with
them. The spirit of ambition had taken possession of this class as violently as ever it had
done of any other. They felt the importance of this situation. The correspondence of the monied
and the mercantile world, the literary intercourse of academies, but, above all, the press,
of which they had in a manner entire possession, made a kind of electric communication everywhere.
The press in reality has made every government, in its spirit, almost democratic. Without it
the great, the first movements in this Revolution could not, perhaps, have been given. But
the spirit of ambition, now for the first time connected with the spirit of speculation, was
not to be restrained at will. There was no longer any means of arresting a principle in its
course. When Louis XVI., under the influence of the enemies to monarchy, meant to found but
one republic, he set up two. When he meant to take away half the crown of his neighbour, he
lost the whole of his own. Louis XVI. could not with impunity countenance a new republic: yet
between his throne and that dangerous lodgment for an enemy, which he had erected, he had the
whole Atlantic for a ditch. He had for an out-work the English nation itself, friendly to liberty,
adverse to that mode of it. He was surrounded by a rampart of monarchies, most of them allied
to him, and generally under his influence. Yet even thus secured, a republic erected under
his auspices, and dependent on his power, became fatal to his throne. The very money which
he had lent to support this republic, by a good faith, which to him operated as perfidy, was
punctually paid to his enemies, and became a resource in the hands of his assassins.

With this example before their eyes, do any ministers in England, do any ministers in Austria,
really flatter themselves that they can erect, not on the remote shores of the Atlantic, but
in their view, in their vicinity, in absolute contact with one of them, not a commercial but
a martial republic--a republic not of simple husbandmen or fishermen, but of intriguers, and
of warriors--a republic of a character the most restless, the most enterprising, the most impious,
the most fierce and bloody, the most hypocritical and perfidious, the most bold and daring,
that ever has been seen, or indeed that can be conceived to exist, without bringing on their
own certain ruin?

Such is the republic to which we are going to give a place in civilised fellowship: the republic,
which, with joint consent, we are going to establish in the centre of Europe, in a post that
overlooks and commands every other state, and which eminently confronts and menaces this kingdom.

You cannot fail to observe that I speak as if the allied powers were actually consenting, and
not compelled by events to the establishment of this faction in France. The words have not
escaped me. You will hereafter naturally expect that I should make them good. But whether in
adopting this measure we are madly active, or weakly passive, or pusillanimously panic struck,
the effects will be the same. You may call this faction, which has eradicated the monarchy,--expelled
the proprietary, persecuted religion, and trampled upon law,--you may call this France if you
please: but of the ancient France nothing remains but its central geography; its iron frontier;
its spirit of ambition; its audacity of enterprise; its perplexing intrigue. These, and these
alone, remain: and they remain heightened in their principle and augmented in their means.
All the former correctives, whether of virtue or of weakness, which existed in the old monarchy,
are gone. No single new corrective is to be found in the whole body of the new institutions.
How should such a thing be found there, when everything has been chosen with care and selection
to forward all those ambitious designs and dispositions, not to control them? The whole is
a body of ways and means for the supply of dominion, without one heterogeneous particle in it.

Here I suffer you to breathe, and leave to your meditation what has occurred to me on the genius
and character of the French Revolution. From having this before us, we may be better able to
determine on the first question I proposed, that is, how far nations, called foreign, are likely
to be affected with the system established within that territory. I intended to proceed next
on the question of her facilities, from the internal state of other nations, and particularly
of this, for obtaining her ends: but I ought to be aware that my notions are controverted.--I
mean, therefore, in my next letter, to take notice of what, in that way, has been recommended
to me as the most deserving of notice. In the examination of those pieces, I shall have occasion
to discuss some others of the topics to which I have called your attention. You know that the
letters which I now send to the press, as well as a part of what is to follow, have been in
their substance long since written. A circumstance which your partiality alone could make of
importance to you, but which to the public is of no importance at all, retarded their appearance.
The late events which press upon us obliged me to make some additions; but no substantial change
in the matter.

This discussion, my friend, will be long. But the matter is serious; and if ever the fate of
the world could be truly said to depend on a particular measure, it is upon this peace. For
the present, farewell.

V.--'PETER PLYMLEY'S LETTERS'

BY SYDNEY SMITH

(LETTERS II., VI., VII., IX.)

(The pamphleteering spirit is strong in almost all Sydney Smith's 'Contributions to the Edinburgh
Review,' but the form and subjects of those contributions exclude them here. Of his two great
pamphlet issues proper, Peter Plymley's Letters and those To Archdeacon Singleton, the former
are, though perhaps of less polished and perfect wit than the latter, more distinctly political,
and have more of that diable au corps which Voltaire considered necessary to success in the
arts. They have also the advantage that, while the Letters to Archdeacon Singleton, though
not an avowed recantation, are in the nature of a palinode--always an awkward thing--Plymley
is frankly and confidently, not to say wantonly, aggressive. These Letters, ten in number,
were written just after the fall of the mainly Whig Ministry of 'All the Talents,' to which
Sydney had been indebted for his preferment of Foston, and which lost its position not least
owing to its intended support of the 'Catholic' claims. Those claims were not admitted for
twenty years later; and Sydney's advocacy of them was regarded as a little too exuberant by
some even of his own party. But there is no doubt that the Letters had a great influence in
laughing if not in arguing sections of the public round to the Emancipation side.)

LETTER II.

Dear Abraham--The Catholic not respect an oath! why not? What upon earth has kept him out of
Parliament, or excluded him from all the offices whence he is excluded, but his respect for
oaths? There is no law which prohibits a Catholic to sit in Parliament. There could be no such
law; because it is impossible to find out what passes in the interior of any man's mind. Suppose
it were in contemplation to exclude all men from certain offices who contended for the legality
of taking tithes: the only mode of discovering that fervid love of decimation which I know
you to possess would be to tender you an oath "against that damnable doctrine, that it is lawful
for a spiritual man to take, abstract, appropriate, subduct, or lead away the tenth calf, sheep,
lamb, ox, pigeon, duck," etc., etc., etc., and every other animal that ever existed, which
of course the lawyers would take care to enumerate. Now this oath I am sure you would rather
die than take; and so the Catholic is excluded from Parliament because he will not swear that
he disbelieves the leading doctrines of his religion! The Catholic asks you to abolish some
oaths which oppress him; your answer is that he does not respect oaths. Then why subject him
to the test of oaths? The oaths keep him out of Parliament; why, then, he respects them. Turn
which way you will, either your laws are nugatory, or the Catholic is bound by religious obligations
as you are; but no eel in the well-sanded fist of a cook-maid, upon the eve of being skinned,
ever twisted and writhed as an orthodox parson does when he is compelled by the gripe of reason
to admit anything in favour of a dissenter.

I will not dispute with you whether the Pope be or be not the Scarlet Lady of Babylon. I hope
it is not so; because I am afraid it will induce His Majesty's Chancellor of the Exchequer
to introduce several severe bills against popery, if that is the case; and though he will have
the decency to appoint a previous committee of inquiry as to the fact, the committee will be
garbled, and the report inflammatory. Leaving this to be settled as he pleases to settle it,
I wish to inform you, that, previously to the bill last passed in favour of the Catholics,
at the suggestion of Mr. Pitt, and for his satisfaction, the opinions of six of the most celebrated
of the foreign Catholic universities were taken as to the right of the Pope to interfere in
the temporal concerns of any country. The answer cannot possibly leave the shadow of a doubt,
even in the mind of Baron Maseres; and Dr. Rennel would be compelled to admit it, if three
Bishops lay dead at the very moment the question were put to him. To this answer might be added
also the solemn declaration and signature of all the Catholics in Great Britain.

I should perfectly agree with you, if the Catholics admitted such a dangerous dispensing power
in the hands of the Pope; but they all deny it, and laugh at it, and are ready to abjure it
in the most decided manner you can devise. They obey the Pope as the spiritual head of their
Church; but are you really so foolish as to be imposed upon by mere names? What matters it
the seven-thousandth part of a farthing who is the spiritual head of any Church? Is not Mr.
Wilberforce at the head of the Church of Clapham? Is not Dr. Letsom at the head of the Quaker
Church? Is not the General Assembly at the head of the Church of Scotland? How is the government
disturbed by these many-headed Churches? or in what way is the power of the Crown augmented
by this almost nominal dignity?

The King appoints a fast-day once a year, and he makes the bishops: and if the government would
take half the pains to keep the Catholics out of the arms of France that it does to widen Temple
Bar, or improve Snow Hill, the King would get into his hands the appointments of the titular
Bishops of Ireland. Both Mr. C----'s sisters enjoy pensions more than sufficient to place the
two greatest dignitaries of the Irish Catholic Church entirely at the disposal of the Crown.
Everybody who knows Ireland knows perfectly well, that nothing would be easier, with the expenditure
of a little money, than to preserve enough of the ostensible appointment in the hands of the
Pope to satisfy the scruples of the Catholics, while the real nomination remained with the
Crown. But, as I have before said, the moment the very name of Ireland is mentioned, the English
seem to bid adieu to common feeling, common prudence, and common sense, and to act with the
barbarity of tyrants and the fatuity of idiots.

Whatever your opinion may be of the follies of the Roman Catholic religion, remember they are
the follies of four millions of human beings, increasing rapidly in numbers, wealth, and intelligence,
who, if firmly united with this country, would set at defiance the power of France, and if
once wrested from their alliance with England, would in three years render its existence as
an independent nation absolutely impossible. You speak of danger to the Establishment: I request
to know when the Establishment was ever so much in danger as when Hoche was in Bantry Bay,
and whether all the books of Bossuet, or the arts of the Jesuits, were half so terrible? Mr.
Perceval and his parsons forget all this, in their horror lest twelve or fourteen old women
may be converted to holy water and Catholic nonsense. They never see that, while they are saving
these venerable ladies from perdition, Ireland may be lost, England broken down, and the Protestant
Church, with all its deans, prebendaries, Percevals, and Rennels, be swept into the vortex
of oblivion.

Do not, I beseech you, ever mention to me again the name of Dr. Duigenan. I have been in every
corner of Ireland, and have studied its present strength and condition with no common labour.
Be assured Ireland does not contain at this moment less than five millions of people. There
were returned in the year 1791 to the hearth tax 701,000 houses, and there is no kind of question
that there were about 50,000 houses omitted in that return. Taking, however, only the number
returned for the tax, and allowing the average of six to a house (a very small average for
a potato-fed people), this brings the population to 4,200,000 people in the year 1791: and
it can be shown from the clearest evidence (and Mr. Newenham in his book shows it), that Ireland
for the last fifty years has increased in its population at the rate of 50 or 60,000 per annum;
which leaves the present population of Ireland at about five millions, after every possible
deduction for existing circumstances, just and necessary wars, monstrous and unnatural rebellions,
and all other sources of human destruction. Of this population, two out of ten are Protestants;
and the half of the Protestant population are Dissenters, and as inimical to the Church as
the Catholics themselves. In this state of things thumbscrews and whipping--admirable engines
of policy as they must be considered to be--will not ultimately avail. The Catholics will hang
over you; they will watch for the moment, and compel you hereafter to give them ten times as
much, against your will, as they would now be contented with, if it were voluntarily surrendered.
Remember what happened in the American war, when Ireland compelled you to give her everything
she asked, and to renounce, in the most explicit manner, your claim of Sovereignty over her.
God Almighty grant the folly of these present men may not bring on such another crisis of public
affairs!

What are your dangers which threaten the Establishment?--Reduce this declamation to a point,
and let us understand what you mean. The most ample allowance does not calculate that there
would be more than twenty members who were Roman Catholics in one house, and ten in the other,
if the Catholic emancipation were carried into effect. Do you mean that these thirty members
would bring in a bill to take away the tithes from the Protestant, and to pay them to the Catholic
clergy? Do you mean that a Catholic general would march his army into the House of Commons,
and purge it of Mr. Perceval and Dr. Duigenan? or, that the theological writers would become
all of a sudden more acute or more learned, if the present civil incapacities were removed?
Do you fear for your tithes, or your doctrines, or your person, or the English Constitution?
Every fear, taken separately, is so glaringly absurd, that no man has the folly or the boldness
to state it. Every one conceals his ignorance, or his baseness, in a stupid general panic,
which, when called on, he is utterly incapable of explaining. Whatever you think of the Catholics,
there they are--you cannot get rid of them; your alternative is to give them a lawful place
for stating their grievances, or an unlawful one: if you do not admit them to the House of
Commons, they will hold their parliament in Potatoe Place, Dublin, and be ten times as violent
and inflammatory as they would be in Westminster. Nothing would give me such an idea of security
as to see twenty or thirty Catholic gentlemen in Parliament, looked upon by all the Catholics
as the fair and proper organ of their party. I should have thought it the height of good fortune
that such a wish existed on their part, and the very essence of madness and ignorance to reject
it. Can you murder the Catholics? Can you neglect them? They are too numerous for both these
expedients. What remains to be done is obvious to every human being--but to that man who, instead
of being a Methodist preacher, is, for the curse of us and our children, and for the ruin of
Troy and the misery of good old Priam and his sons, become a legislator and a politician.

A distinction, I perceive, is taken by one of the most feeble noblemen in Great Britain, between
persecution and the deprivation of political power; whereas, there is no more distinction between
these two things than there is between him who makes the distinction and a booby. If I strip
off the relic-covered jacket of a Catholic, and give him twenty stripes ... I persecute; if
I say, Everybody in the town where you live shall be a candidate for lucrative and honourable
offices, but you, who are a Catholic ... I do not persecute! What barbarous nonsense is this!
as if degradation was not as great an evil as bodily pain or as severe poverty: as if I could
not be as great a tyrant by saying, You shall not enjoy--as by saying, You shall suffer. The
English, I believe, are as truly religious as any nation in Europe: I know no greater blessing;
but it carries with it this evil in its train, that any villain who will bawl out, 'The Church
is in danger!' may get a place and a good pension; and that any administration who will do
the same thing may bring a set of men into power who, at a moment of stationary and passive
piety, would be hooted by the very boys in the streets. But it is not all religion; it is,
in great part, the narrow and exclusive spirit which delights to keep the common blessings
of sun and air and freedom from other human beings. 'Your religion has always been degraded;
you are in the dust, and I will take care you never rise again. I should enjoy less the possession
of an earthly good by every additional person to whom it was extended.' You may not be aware
of it yourself, most reverend Abraham, but you deny their freedom to the Catholics upon the
same principle that Sarah your wife refuses to give the receipt for a ham or a gooseberry dumpling:
she values her receipts, not because they secure to her a certain flavour, but because they
remind her that her neighbours want it:--a feeling laughable in a priestess, shameful in a
priest; venial when it withholds the blessings of a ham, tyrannical and execrable when it narrows
the boon of religious freedom.

You spend a great deal of ink about the character of the present prime minister. Grant you
all that you write--I say, I fear he will ruin Ireland, and pursue a line of policy destructive
to the true interest of his country: and then you tell me, he is faithful to Mrs. Perceval,
and kind to the Master Percevals! These are, undoubtedly, the first qualifications to be looked
to in a time of the most serious public danger; but somehow or another (if public and private
virtues must always be incompatible), I should prefer that he destroyed the domestic happiness
of Wood or Cockell, owed for the veal of the preceding year, whipped his boys, and saved his
country.

The late administration did not do right; they did not build their measures upon the solid
basis of facts. They should have caused several Catholics to have been dissected after death
by surgeons of either religion; and the report to have been published with accompanying plates.
If the viscera, and other organs of life, had been found to be the same as in Protestant bodies;
if the provisions of nerves, arteries, cerebrum, and cerebellum, had been the same as we are
provided with, or as the Dissenters are now known to possess; then, indeed, they might have
met Mr. Perceval upon a proud eminence, and convinced the country at large of the strong probability
that the Catholics are really human creatures, endowed with the feelings of men, and entitled
to all their rights. But instead of this wise and prudent measure, Lord Howick, with his usual
precipitation, brings forward a bill in their favour, without offering the slightest proof
to the country that they were anything more than horses and oxen. The person who shows the
lama at the corner of Piccadilly has the precaution to write up--Allowed by Sir Joseph Banks
to be a real quadruped, so his Lordship might have said--Allowed by the bench of Bishops to
be real human creatures.... I could write you twenty letters upon this subject; but I am tired,
and so I suppose are you. Our friendship is now of forty years' standing; you know me to be
a truly religious man; but I shudder to see religion treated like a cockade, or a pint of beer,
and made the instrument of a party. I love the king, but I love the people as well as the king;
and if I am sorry to see his old age molested, I am much more sorry to see four millions of
Catholics baffled in their just expectations. If I love Lord Grenville, and Lord Howick, it
is because they love their country; if I abhor ... it is because I know there is but one man
among them who is not laughing at the enormous folly and credulity of the country, and that
he is an ignorant and mischievous bigot. As for the light and frivolous jester, of whom it
is your misfortune to think so highly, learn, my dear Abraham, that this political Killigrew,
just before the breaking-up of the last administration, was in actual treaty with them for
a place; and if they had survived twenty-four hours longer, he would have been now declaiming
against the cry of No Popery! instead of inflaming it. With this practical comment on the baseness
of human nature, I bid you adieu!

LETTER VI.

Dear Abraham--What amuses me the most is to hear of the indulgences which the Catholics have
received, and their exorbitance in not being satisfied with those indulgences: now if you complain
to me that a man is obtrusive and shameless in his requests, and that it is impossible to bring
him to reason, I must first of all hear the whole of your conduct towards him; for you may
have taken from him so much in the first instance that, in spite of a long series of restitution,
a vast latitude for petition may still remain behind.

There is a village, no matter where, in which the inhabitants, on one day in the year, sit
down to a dinner prepared at the common expense: by an extraordinary piece of tyranny, which
Lord Hawkesbury would call the wisdom of the village ancestors, the inhabitants of three of
the streets, about a hundred years ago, seized upon the inhabitants of the fourth street, bound
them hand and foot, laid them upon their backs, and compelled them to look on while the rest
were stuffing themselves with beef and beer; the next year the inhabitants of the persecuted
street, though they contributed an equal quota of the expense, were treated precisely in the
same manner. The tyranny grew into a custom; and, as the manner of our nature is, it was considered
as the most sacred of all duties to keep these poor fellows without their annual dinner. The
village was so tenacious of this practice, that nothing could induce them to resign it; every
enemy to it was looked upon as a disbeliever in Divine Providence, and any nefarious churchwarden
who wished to succeed in his election had nothing to do but to represent his antagonist as
an abolitionist, in order to frustrate his ambition, endanger his life, and throw the village
into a state of the most dreadful commotion. By degrees, however, the obnoxious street grew
to be so well peopled, and its inhabitants so firmly united, that their oppressors, more afraid
of injustice, were more disposed to be just. At the next dinner they are unbound, the year
after allowed to sit upright, then a bit of bread and a glass of water; till at last, after
a long series of concessions, they are emboldened to ask, in pretty plain terms, that they
may be allowed to sit down at the bottom of the table, and to fill their bellies as well as
the rest. Forthwith a general cry of shame and scandal: 'Ten years ago, were you not laid upon
your backs? Don't you remember what a great thing you thought it to get a piece of bread? How
thankful you were for cheese parings? Have you forgotten that memorable era, when the lord
of the manor interfered to obtain for you a slice of the public pudding? And now, with an audacity
only equalled by your ingratitude, you have the impudence to ask for knives and forks, and
to request, in terms too plain to be mistaken, that you may sit down to table with the rest,
and be indulged even with beef and beer: there are not more than half a dozen dishes which
we have reserved for ourselves; the rest has been thrown open to you in the utmost profusion;
you have potatoes, and carrots, suet dumplings, sops in the pan, and delicious toast and water
in incredible quantities. Beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and veal are ours; and if you were not
the most restless and dissatisfied of human beings, you would never think of aspiring to enjoy
them.'

Is not this, my dainty Abraham, the very nonsense and the very insult which is talked to and
practised upon the Catholics? You are surprised that men who have tasted of partial justice
should ask for perfect justice; that he who has been robbed of coat and cloak will not be contented
with the restitution of one of his garments. He would be a very lazy blockhead if he were content,
and I (who, though an inhabitant of the village, have preserved, thank God, some sense of justice)
most earnestly counsel these half-fed claimants to persevere in their just demands, till they
are admitted to a more complete share of a dinner for which they pay as much as the others;
and if they see a little attenuated lawyer squabbling at the head of their opponents, let them
desire him to empty his pockets, and to pull out all the pieces of duck, fowl, and pudding
which he has filched from the public feast, to carry home to his wife and children.

You parade a great deal upon the vast concessions made by this country to the Irish before
the Union. I deny that any voluntary concession was ever made by England to Ireland. What did
Ireland ever ask that was granted? What did she ever demand that was not refused? How did she
get her Mutiny Bill--a limited Parliament--a repeal of Poyning's Law--a constitution? Not by
the concessions of England, but by her fears. When Ireland asked for all these things upon
her knees, her petitions were rejected with Percevalism and contempt; when she demanded them
with the voice of 60,000 armed men, they were granted with every mark of consternation and
dismay. Ask of Lord Auckland the fatal consequences of trifling with such a people as the Irish.
He himself was the organ of these refusals. As secretary to the Lord Lieutenant, the insolence
and the tyranny of this country passed through his hands. Ask him if he remembers the consequences.
Ask him if he has forgotten that memorable evening when he came down booted and mantled to
the House of Commons, when he told the House he was about to set off for Ireland that night,
and declared before God, if he did not carry with him a compliance with all their demands,
Ireland was for ever lost to this country. The present generation have forgotten this; but
I have not forgotten it; and I know, hasty and undignified as the submission of England then
was, that Lord Auckland was right, that the delay of a single day might very probably have
separated the two peoples for ever. The terms submission and fear are galling terms when applied
from the lesser nation to the greater; but it is the plain historical truth, it is the natural
consequence of injustice, it is the predicament in which every country places itself which
leaves such a mass of hatred and discontent by its side. No empire is powerful enough to endure
it; it would exhaust the strength of China, and sink it with all its mandarins and tea-kettles
to the bottom of the deep. By refusing them justice now when you are strong enough to refuse
them anything more than justice, you will act over again, with the Catholics, the same scene
of mean and precipitate submission which disgraced you before America, and before the volunteers
of Ireland. We shall live to hear the Hampstead Protestant pronouncing such extravagant panegyrics
upon holy water, and paying such fulsome compliments to the thumbs and offals of departed saints,
that parties will change sentiments, and Lord Henry Petty and Sam Whitbread take a spell at
No Popery. The wisdom of Mr. Fox was alike employed in teaching his country justice when Ireland
was weak, and dignity when Ireland was strong. We are fast pacing round the same miserable
circle of ruin and imbecility. Alas! where is our guide?

You say that Ireland is a millstone about our necks; that it would be better for us if Ireland
were sunk at the bottom of the sea; that the Irish are a nation of irreclaimable savages and
barbarians. How often have I heard these sentiments fall from the plump and thoughtless squire,
and from the thriving English shopkeeper, who has never felt the rod of an Orange master upon
his back. Ireland a millstone about your neck! Why is it not a stone of Ajax in your hand?
I agree with you most cordially that, governed as Ireland now is, it would be a vast accession
of strength if the waves of the sea were to rise and engulf her to-morrow. At this moment,
opposed as we are to all the world, the annihilation of one of the most fertile islands on
the face of the globe, containing five millions of human creatures, would be one of the most
solid advantages which could happen to this country. I doubt very much, in spite of all the
just abuse which has been lavished upon Bonaparte, whether there is any one of his conquered
countries the blotting out of which would be as beneficial to him as the destruction of Ireland
would be to us: of countries I speak differing in language from the French, little habituated
to their intercourse, and inflamed with all the resentments of a recently conquered people.
Why will you attribute the turbulence of our people to any cause but the right--to any cause
but your own scandalous oppression? If you tie your horse up to a gate, and beat him cruelly,
is he vicious because he kicks you? If you have plagued and worried a mastiff dog for years,
is he mad because he flies at you whenever he sees you? Hatred is an active, troublesome passion.
Depend upon it, whole nations have always some reason for their hatred. Before you refer the
turbulence of the Irish to incurable defects in their character, tell me if you have treated
them as friends and equals? Have you protected their commerce? Have you respected their religion?
Have you been as anxious for their freedom as your own? Nothing of all this. What then? Why
you have confiscated the territorial surface of the country twice over: you have massacred
and exported her inhabitants: you have deprived four-fifths of them of every civil privilege:
you have at every period made her commerce and manufactures slavishly subordinate to your own:
and yet the hatred which the Irish bear to you is the result of an original turbulence of character,
and of a primitive, obdurate wildness, utterly incapable of civilisation. The embroidered inanities
and the sixth-form effusions of Mr. Canning are really not powerful enough to make me believe
this; nor is there any authority on earth (always excepting the Dean of Christ Church) which
could make it credible to me. I am sick of Mr. Canning. There is not a 'ha'porth of bread to
all this sugar and sack.' I love not the cretaceous and incredible countenance of his colleague.
The only opinion in which I agree with these two gentlemen is that which they entertain of
each other. I am sure that the insolence of Mr. Pitt, and the unbalanced accounts of Melville,
were far better than the perils of this new ignorance:--

    Nonne fuit satiùs, tristes Amaryllidis iras
    Atque superba pati fastidia? nonne Menalcan?
    Quamvis ille niger?

In the midst of the most profound peace, the secret articles of the Treaty of Tilsit, in which
the destruction of Ireland is resolved upon, induce you to rob the Danes of their fleet. After
the expedition sailed comes the Treaty of Tilsit, containing no article, public or private,
alluding to Ireland. The state of the world, you tell me, justified us in doing this. Just
God! do we think only of the state of the world when there is an opportunity for robbery, for
murder, and for plunder; and do we forget the state of the world when we are called upon to
be wise, and good, and just? Does the state of the world never remind us that we have four
millions of subjects whose injuries we ought to atone for, and whose affections we ought to
conciliate? Does the state of the world never warn us to lay aside our infernal bigotry, and
to arm every man who acknowledges a God, and can grasp a sword? Did it never occur to this
administration that they might virtuously get hold of a force ten times greater than the force
of the Danish fleet? Was there no other way of protecting Ireland but by bringing eternal shame
upon Great Britain, and by making the earth a den of robbers? See what the men whom you have
supplanted would have done. They would have rendered the invasion of Ireland impossible, by
restoring to the Catholics their long-lost rights: they would have acted in such a manner that
the French would neither have wished for invasion nor dared to attempt it: they would have
increased the permanent strength of the country while they preserved its reputation unsullied.
Nothing of this kind your friends have done, because they are solemnly pledged to do nothing
of this kind; because, to tolerate all religions, and to equalise civil rights to all sects,
is to oppose some of the worst passions of our nature--to plunder and to oppress is to gratify
them all. They wanted the huzzas of mobs, and they have for ever blasted the fame of England
to obtain them. Were the fleets of Holland, France, and Spain destroyed by larceny? You resisted
the power of 150 sail of the line by sheer courage, and violated every principle of morals
from the dread of fifteen hulks, while the expedition itself cost you three times more than
the value of the larcenous matter brought away. The French trample on the laws of God and man,
not for old cordage, but for kingdoms, and always take care to be well paid for their crimes.
We contrive, under the present administration, to unite moral with intellectual deficiency,
and to grow weaker and worse by the same action. If they had any evidence of the intended hostility
of the Danes, why was it not produced? Why have the nations of Europe been allowed to feel
an indignation against this country beyond the reach of all subsequent information? Are these
times, do you imagine, when we can trifle with a year of universal hatred, dally with the curses
of Europe, and then regain a lost character at pleasure, by the parliamentary perspirations
of the Foreign Secretary, or the solemn asseverations of the pecuniary Rose? Believe me, Abraham,
it is not under such ministers as these that the dexterity of honest Englishmen will ever equal
the dexterity of French knaves; it is not in their presence that the serpent of Moses will
ever swallow up the serpents of the magician.

Lord Hawkesbury says that nothing is to be granted to the Catholics from fear. What! not even
justice? Why not? There are four millions of disaffected people within twenty miles of your
own coast. I fairly confess that the dread which I have of their physical power is with me
a very strong motive for listening to their claims. To talk of not acting from fear is mere
parliamentary cant. From what motive but fear, I should be glad to know, have all the improvements
in our constitution proceeded? I question if any justice has ever been done to large masses
of mankind from any other motive. By what other motives can the plunderers of the Baltic suppose
nations to be governed in their intercourse with each other? If I say, Give this people what
they ask because it is just, do you think I should get ten people to listen to me? Would not
the lesser of the two Jenkinsons be the first to treat me with contempt? The only true way
to make the mass of mankind see the beauty of justice is by showing to them, in pretty plain
terms, the consequences of injustice. If any body of French troops land in Ireland, the whole
population of that country will rise against you to a man, and you could not possibly survive
such an event three years. Such, from the bottom of my soul, do I believe to be the present
state of that country; and so far does it appear to me to be impolitic and unstatesman-like
to conceed anything to such a danger, that if the Catholics, in addition to their present just
demands, were to petition for the perpetual removal of the said Lord Hawkesbury from his Majesty's
councils, I think, whatever might be the effect upon the destinies of Europe, and however it
might retard our own individual destruction, that the prayer of the petition should be instantly
complied with. Canning's crocodile tears should not move me; the hoops of the maids of honour
should not hide him. I would tear him from the banisters of the back stairs, and plunge him
in the fishy fumes of the dirtiest of all his Cinque Ports.

LETTER VII.

Dear Abraham--In the correspondence which is passing between us, you are perpetually alluding
to the Foreign Secretary; and in answer to the dangers of Ireland, which I am pressing upon
your notice, you have nothing to urge but the confidence which you repose in the discretion
and sound sense of this gentleman. I can only say, that I have listened to him long and often
with the greatest attention; I have used every exertion in my power to take a fair measure
of him, and it appears to me impossible to hear him upon any arduous topic without perceiving
that he is eminently deficient in those solid and serious qualities upon which, and upon which
alone, the confidence of a great country can properly repose. He sweats and labours, and works
for sense, and Mr. Ellis seems always to think it is coming, but it does not come; the machine
can't draw up what is not to be found in the spring; Providence has made him a light, jesting,
paragraph-writing man, and that he will remain to his dying day. When he is jocular he is strong,
when he is serious he is like Samson in a wig; any ordinary person is a match for him: a song,
an ironical letter, a burlesque ode, an attack in the newspaper upon Nicoll's eye, a smart
speech of twenty minutes, full of gross misrepresentations and clever turns, excellent language,
a spirited manner, lucky quotation, success in provoking dull men, some half information picked
up in Pall Mall in the morning; these are your friend's natural weapons; all these things he
can do: here I allow him to be truly great; nay, I will be just, and go still further, if he
would confine himself to these things, and consider the facete and the playful to be the basis
of his character, he would, for that species of man, be universally regarded as a person of
a very good understanding; call him a legislator, a reasoner, and the conductor of the affairs
of a great nation, and it seems to me as absurd as if a butterfly were to teach bees to make
honey. That he is an extraordinary writer of small poetry, and a diner out of the highest lustre,
I do most readily admit. After George Selwyn, and perhaps Tickell, there has been no such man
for this half-century. The Foreign Secretary is a gentleman, a respectable as well as a highly
agreeable man in private life; but you may as well feed me with decayed potatoes as console
me for the miseries of Ireland by the resources of his sense and his discretion. It is only
the public situation which this gentleman holds which entitles me or induces me to say so much
about him. He is a fly in amber, nobody cares about the fly; the only question is, How the
devil did it get there? Nor do I attack him for the love of glory, but from the love of utility,
as a burgomaster hunts a rat in a Dutch dyke for fear it should flood a province.

The friends of the Catholic question are, I observe, extremely embarrassed in arguing when
they come to the loyalty of the Irish Catholics. As for me, I shall go straight forward to
my object, and state what I have no manner of doubt, from an intimate knowledge of Ireland,
to be the plain truth. Of the great Roman Catholic proprietors, and of the Catholic prelates,
there may be a few, and but a few, who would follow the fortunes of England at all events:
there is another set of men who, thoroughly detesting this country, have too much property
and too much character to lose, not to wait for some very favourable event before they show
themselves; but the great mass of Catholic population, upon the slightest appearance of a French
force in that country, would rise upon you to a man. It is the most mistaken policy to conceal
the plain truth. There is no loyalty among the Catholics: they detest you as their worst oppressors,
and they will continue to detest you till you remove the cause of their hatred. It is in your
power in six months' time to produce a total revolution of opinions among this people; and
in some future letter I will show you that this is clearly the case. At present, see what a
dreadful state Ireland is in. The common toast among the low Irish is, the feast of the passover.
Some allusion to Bonaparte, in a play lately acted at Dublin, produced thunders of applause
from the pit and the galleries; and a politician should not be inattentive to the public feelings
expressed in theatres. Mr. Perceval thinks he has disarmed the Irish: he has no more disarmed
the Irish than he has resigned a shilling of his own public emoluments. An Irish peasant fills
the barrel of his gun full of tow dipped in oil, butters up the lock, buries it in a bog, and
allows the Orange bloodhound to ransack his cottage at pleasure. Be just and kind to the Irish,
and you will indeed disarm them; rescue them from the degraded servitude in which they are
held by a handful of their own countrymen, and you will add four millions of brave and affectionate
men to your strength. Nightly visits, Protestant inspectors, licenses to possess a pistol,
or a knife and fork, the odious vigour of the evangelical Perceval--acts of Parliament, drawn
up by some English attorney, to save you from the hatred of four millions of people--the guarding
yourselves from universal disaffection by a police; a confidence in the little cunning of Bow
Street, when you might rest your security upon the eternal basis of the best feelings: this
is the meanness and madness to which nations are reduced when they lose sight of the first
elements of justice, without which a country can be no more secure than it can be healthy without
air. I sicken at such policy and such men. The fact is, the Ministers know nothing about the
present state of Ireland; Mr. Perceval sees a few clergymen, Lord Castlereagh a few general
officers, who take care, of course, to report what is pleasant rather than what is true. As
for the joyous and lepid consul, he jokes upon neutral flags and frauds, jokes upon Irish rebels,
jokes upon northern and western and southern foes, and gives himself no trouble upon any subject;
nor is the mediocrity of the idolatrous deputy of the slightest use. Dissolved in grins, he
reads no memorials upon the state of Ireland, listens to no reports, asks no questions, and is the

    "Bourn from whom no traveller returns."

The danger of an immediate insurrection is now, I believe, blown over. You have so strong an
army in Ireland, and the Irish are become so much more cunning from the last insurrection,
that you may perhaps be tolerably secure just at present from that evil: but are you secure
from the efforts which the French may make to throw a body of troops into Ireland? and do you
consider that event to be difficult and improbable? From Brest Harbour to Cape St. Vincent,
you have above three thousand miles of hostile sea coast, and twelve or fourteen harbours quite
capable of containing a sufficient force for the powerful invasion of Ireland. The nearest
of these harbours is not two days' sail from the southern coast of Ireland, with a fair leading
wind; and the furthest not ten. Five ships of the line, for so very short a passage, might
carry five or six thousand troops with cannon and ammunition; and Ireland presents to their
attack a southern coast of more than 500 miles, abounding in deep bays, admirable harbours,
and disaffected inhabitants. Your blockading ships may be forced to come home for provisions
and repairs, or they may be blown off in a gale of wind and compelled to bear away for their
own coast; and you will observe that the very same wind which locks you up in the British Channel,
when you are got there, is evidently favourable for the invasion of Ireland. And yet this is
called Government, and the people huzza Mr. Perceval for continuing to expose his country day
after day to such tremendous perils as these; cursing the men who would have given up a question
in theology to have saved us from such a risk. The British empire at this moment is in the
state of a peach-blossom--if the wind blows gently from one quarter, it survives; if furiously
from the other, it perishes. A stiff breeze may set in from the north, the Rochefort squadron
will be taken, and the Minister will be the most holy of men: if it comes from some other point,
Ireland is gone; we curse ourselves as a set of monastic madmen, and call out for the unavailing
satisfaction of Mr. Perceval's head. Such a state of political existence is scarcely credible:
it is the action of a mad young fool standing upon one foot, and peeping down the crater of
Mount Ætna, not the conduct of a wise and sober people deciding upon their best and dearest
interests: and in the name, the much-injured name, of heaven, what is it all for that we expose
ourselves to these dangers? Is it that we may sell more muslin? Is it that we may acquire more
territory? Is it that we may strengthen what we have already acquired? No; nothing of all this;
but that one set of Irishmen may torture another set of Irishmen--that Sir Phelim O'Callaghan
may continue to whip Sir Toby M'Tackle, his next door neighbour, and continue to ravish his
Catholic daughters; and these are the measures which the honest and consistent Secretary supports;
and this is the Secretary whose genius in the estimation of Brother Abraham is to extinguish
the genius of Bonaparte. Pompey was killed by a slave, Goliath smitten by a stripling. Pyrrhus
died by the hand of a woman; tremble, thou great Gaul, from whose head an armed Minerva leaps
forth in the hour of danger; tremble, thou scourge of God, a pleasant man is come out against
thee, and thou shall be laid low by a joker of jokes, and he shall talk his pleasant talk against
thee, and thou shall be no more!

You tell me, in spite of all this parade of sea-coast, Bonaparte has neither ships nor sailors:
but this is a mistake. He has not ships and sailors to contest the empire of the seas with
Great Britain, but there remains quite sufficient of the navies of France, Spain, Holland,
and Denmark, for these short excursions and invasions. Do you think, too, that Bonaparte does
not add to his navy every year? Do you suppose, with all Europe at his feet, that he can find
any difficulty in obtaining timber, and that money will not procure for him any quantity of
naval stores he may want? The mere machine, the empty ship, he can build as well, and as quickly,
as you can; and though he may not find enough of practised sailors to man large fighting-fleets--it
is not possible to conceive that he can want sailors for such sort of purposes as I have stated.
He is at present the despotic monarch of above twenty thousand miles of sea-coast, and yet
you suppose he cannot procure sailors for the invasion of Ireland. Believe, if you please,
that such a fleet met at sea by any number of our ships at all comparable to them in point
of force, would be immediately taken, let it be so; I count nothing upon their power of resistance,
only upon their power of escaping unobserved. If experience has taught us anything, it is the
impossibility of perpetual blockades. The instances are innumerable, during the course of this
war, where whole fleets have sailed in and out of harbour, in spite of every vigilance used
to prevent it. I shall only mention those cases where Ireland is concerned. In December, 1796,
seven ships of the line, and ten transports, reached Bantry Bay from Brest, without having
seen an English ship in their passage. It blew a storm when they were off shore, and therefore
England still continues to be an independent kingdom. You will observe that at the very time
the French fleet sailed out of Brest Harbour, Admiral Colpoys was cruising off there with a
powerful squadron, and still, from the particular circumstances of the weather, found it impossible
to prevent the French from coming out. During the time that Admiral Colpoys was cruising off
Brest, Admiral Richery, with six ships of the line, passed him, and got safe into the harbour.
At the very moment when the French squadron was lying in Bantry Bay, Lord Bridport with his
fleet was locked up by a foul wind in the Channel, and for several days could not stir to the
assistance of Ireland. Admiral Colpoys, totally unable to find the French fleet, came home.
Lord Bridport, at the change of the wind, cruised for them in vain, and they got safe back
to Brest, without having seen a single one of those floating bulwarks, the possession of which
we believe will enable us with impunity to set justice and common sense at defiance. Such is
the miserable and precarious state of an anemocracy, of a people who put their trust in hurricanes,
and are governed by wind. In August, 1798, three forty-gun frigates landed 1100 men under Humbert,
making the passage from Rochelle to Killala without seeing any English ship. In October of
the same year, four French frigates anchored in Killala Bay with 2000 troops; and though they
did not land their troops they returned to France in safety. In the same month, a line-of-battle
ship, eight stout frigates, and a brig, all full of troops and stores, reached the coast of
Ireland, and were fortunately, in sight of land, destroyed, after an obstinate engagement,
by Sir John Warren.

If you despise the little troop which, in these numerous experiments, did make good its landing,
take with you, if you please, this précis of its exploits: eleven hundred men, commanded by
a soldier raised from the ranks, put to rout a select army of 6000 men, commanded by General
Lake, seized their ordnance, ammunition, and stores, advanced 150 miles into a country containing
an armed force of 150,000 men, and at last surrendered to the Viceroy, an experienced general,
gravely and cautiously advancing at the head of all his chivalry and of an immense army to
oppose him. You must excuse these details about Ireland, but it appears to me to be of all
other subjects the most important. If we conciliate Ireland, we can do nothing amiss; if we
do not, we can do nothing well. If Ireland was friendly, we might equally set at defiance the
talents of Bonaparte and the blunders of his rival, Mr. Canning; we could then support the
ruinous and silly bustle of our useless expeditions, and the almost incredible ignorance of
our commercial orders in council. Let the present administration give up but this one point,
and there is nothing which I would not consent to grant them. Mr. Perceval shall have full
liberty to insult the tomb of Mr. Fox, and to torment every eminent Dissenter in Great Britain;
Lord Camden shall have large boxes of plums; Mr. Rose receive permission to prefix to his name
the appellative of virtuous; and to the Viscount Castlereagh a round sum of ready money shall
be well and truly paid into his hand. Lastly, what remains to Mr. George Canning, but that
he ride up and down Pall Mall glorious upon a white horse, and that they cry out before him,
Thus shall it be done to the statesman who hath written 'The Needy Knife-Grinder,' and the
German play? Adieu only for the present; you shall soon hear from me again; it is a subject
upon which I cannot long be silent.

LETTER IX.

Dear Abraham--No Catholic can be chief Governor or Governor of this kingdom, Chancellor or
Keeper of the Great Seal, Lord High Treasurer, Chief of any of the Courts of Justice, Chancellor
of the Exchequer, Puisne Judge, Judge in the Admiralty, Master of the Rolls, Secretary of State,
Keeper of the Privy Seal, Vice-Treasurer or his Deputy, Teller or Cashier of Exchequer, Auditor
or General, Governor or Gustos Rotulorum of Counties, Chief Governor's Secretary, Privy Councillor,
King's Counsel, Serjeant, Attorney, Solicitor-General, Master in Chancery, Provost or Fellow
of Trinity College, Dublin, Postmaster-General, Master and Lieutenant-General of Ordnance,
Commander-in-Chief, General on the Staff, Sheriff, Sub-Sheriff, Mayor, Bailiff, Recorder, Burgess,
or any other officer in a City, or a Corporation. No Catholic can be guardian to a Protestant,
and no priest guardian at all; no Catholic can be a gamekeeper, or have for sale, or otherwise,
any arms or warlike stores; no Catholic can present to a living, unless he choose to turn Jew
in order to obtain that privilege; the pecuniary qualification of Catholic jurors is made higher
than that of Protestants, and no relaxation of the ancient rigorous code is permitted, unless
to those who shall take an oath prescribed by 13 and 14 George III. Now if this is not picking
the plums out of the pudding and leaving the mere batter to the Catholics, I know not what
is. If it were merely the Privy Council, it would be (I allow) nothing but a point of honour
for which the mass of Catholics were contending, the honour of being chief-mourners or pall-bearers
to the country; but surely no man will contend that every barrister may not speculate upon
the possibility of being a Puisne Judge; and that every shopkeeper must not feel himself injured
by his exclusion from borough offices.

One of the greatest practical evils which the Catholics suffer in Ireland is their exclusion
from the offices of Sheriff and Deputy Sheriff. Nobody who is unacquainted with Ireland can
conceive the obstacles which this opposes to the fair administration of justice. The formation
of juries is now entirely in the hands of the Protestants; the lives, liberties, and properties
of the Catholics in the hands of the juries; and this is the arrangement for the administration
of justice in a country where religious prejudices are inflamed to the greatest degree of animosity!
In this country, if a man be a foreigner, if he sell slippers, and sealing wax, and artificial
flowers, we are so tender of human life that we take care half the number of persons who are
to decide upon his fate should be men of similar prejudices and feelings with himself: but
a poor Catholic in Ireland may be tried by twelve Percevals, and destroyed according to the
manner of that gentleman in the name of the Lord, and with all the insulting forms of justice.
I do not go the length of saying that deliberate and wilful injustice is done. I have no doubt
that the Orange Deputy Sheriff thinks it would be a most unpardonable breach of his duty if
he did not summon a Protestant panel. I can easily believe that the Protestant panel may conduct
themselves very conscientiously in hanging the gentlemen of the crucifix; but I blame the law
which does not guard the Catholic against the probable tenor of those feelings which must unconsciously
influence the judgments of mankind. I detest that state of society which extends unequal degrees
of protection to different creeds and persuasions; and I cannot describe to you the contempt
I feel for a man who, calling himself a statesman, defends a system which fills the heart of
every Irishman with treason, and makes his allegiance prudence, not choice.

I request to know if the vestry taxes in Ireland are a mere matter of romantic feeling which
can affect only the Earl of Fingal? In a parish where there are four thousand Catholics and
fifty Protestants, the Protestants may meet together in a vestry meeting at which no Catholic
has the right to vote, and tax all the lands in the parish 1s. 6d. per acre, or in the pound,
I forget which, for the repairs of the church--and how has the necessity of these repairs been
ascertained? A Protestant plumber has discovered that it wants new leading; a Protestant carpenter
is convinced the timbers are not sound; and the glazier who hates holy water (as an accoucheur
hates celibacy, because he gets nothing by it) is employed to put in new sashes.

The grand juries in Ireland are the great scene of jobbing. They have a power of making a county
rate to a considerable extent for roads, bridges, and other objects of general accommodation.
'You suffer the road to be brought through my park, and I will have the bridge constructed
in a situation where it will make a beautiful object to your house. You do my job, and I will
do yours.' These are the sweet and interesting subjects which occasionally occupy Milesian
gentlemen while they are attendant upon this grand inquest of justice. But there is a religion,
it seems, even in jobs; and it will be highly gratifying to Mr. Perceval to learn that no man
in Ireland who believes in seven sacraments can carry a public road, or bridge, one yard out
of the direction most beneficial to the public, and that nobody can cheat the public who does
not expound the Scriptures in the purest and most orthodox manner. This will give pleasure
to Mr. Perceval: but, from his unfairness upon these topics I appeal to the justice and the
proper feelings of Mr. Huskisson. I ask him if the human mind can experience a more dreadful
sensation than to see its own jobs refused, and the jobs of another religion perpetually succeeding?
I ask him his opinion of a jobless faith, of a creed which dooms a man through life to a lean
and plunderless integrity. He knows that human nature cannot and will not bear it; and if we
were to paint a political Tartarus, it would be an endless series of snug expectations and
cruel disappointments. These are a few of many dreadful inconveniences which the Catholics
of all ranks suffer from the laws by which they are at present oppressed. Besides, look at
human nature: what is the history of all professions? Joel is to be brought up to the bar:
has Mrs. Plymley the slightest doubt of his being Chancellor? Do not his two shrivelled aunts
live in the certainty of seeing him in that situation, and of cutting out with their own hands
his equity habiliments? And I could name a certain minister of the Gospel who does not, in
the bottom of his heart, much differ from these opinions. Do you think that the fathers and
mothers of the holy Catholic Church are not as absurd as Protestant papas and mammas? The probability
I admit to be, in each particular case, that the sweet little blockhead will in fact never
get a brief;--but I will venture to say there is not a parent from the Giant's Causeway to
Bantry Bay who does not conceive that his child is the unfortunate victim of the exclusion,
and that nothing short of positive law could prevent his own dear, pre-eminent Paddy from rising
to the highest honours of the State. So with the army and parliament; in fact, few are excluded;
but, in imagination, all: you keep twenty or thirty Catholics out, and you lose the affections
of four millions; and, let me tell you, that recent circumstances have by no means tended to
diminish in the minds of men that hope of elevation beyond their own rank which is so congenial
to our nature: from pleading for John Roe to taxing John Bull, from jesting for Mr. Pitt and
writing in the Anti-Jacobin, to managing the affairs of Europe--these are leaps which seem
to justify the fondest dreams of mothers and of aunts.

I do not say that the disabilities to which the Catholics are exposed amount to such intolerable
grievances, that the strength and industry of a nation are overwhelmed by them: the increasing
prosperity of Ireland fully demonstrates to the contrary. But I repeat again, what I have often
stated in the course of our correspondence, that your laws against the Catholics are exactly
in that state in which you have neither the benefits of rigour nor of liberality: every law
which prevented the Catholic from gaining strength and wealth is repealed; every law which
can irritate remains; if you were determined to insult the Catholics you should have kept them
weak; if you resolved to give them strength, you should have ceased to insult them--at present
your conduct is pure, unadulterated folly.

Lord Hawkesbury says, 'We heard nothing about the Catholics till we began to mitigate the laws
against them; when we relieved them in part from this oppression they began to be disaffected.'
This is very true; but it proves just what I have said, that you have either done too much
or too little; and as there lives not, I hope, upon earth, so depraved a courtier that he would
load the Catholics with their ancient chains, what absurdity it is, then, not to render their
dispositions friendly, when you leave their arms and legs free!

You know, and many Englishmen know, what passes in China; but nobody knows or cares what passes
in Ireland. At the beginning of the present reign no Catholic could realise property, or carry
on any business; they were absolutely annihilated, and had no more agency in the country than
so many trees. They were like Lord Mulgrave's eloquence and Lord Camden's wit; the legislative
bodies did not know of their existence. For these twenty-five years last past the Catholics
have been engaged in commerce; within that period the commerce of Ireland has doubled--there
are four Catholics at work for one Protestant, and eight Catholics at work for one Episcopalian.
Of course, the proportion which Catholic wealth bears to Protestant wealth is every year altering
rapidly in favour of the Catholics. I have already told you what their purchases of land were
the last year: since that period I have been at some pains to find out the actual state of
the Catholic wealth: it is impossible upon such a subject to arrive at complete accuracy; but
I have good reason to believe that there are at present 2000 Catholics in Ireland possessing
an income of £500 and upwards, many of these with incomes of one, two, three, and four thousand,
and some amounting to fifteen and twenty thousand per annum:--and this is the kingdom, and
these the people, for whose conciliation we are to wait Heaven knows when, and Lord Hawkesbury
why! As for me, I never think of the situation of Ireland without feeling the same necessity
for immediate interference as I should do if I saw blood flowing from a great artery. I rush
towards it with the instinctive rapidity of a man desirous of preventing death, and have no
other feeling but that in a few seconds the patient may be no more.

I could not help smiling, in the times of No Popery, to witness the loyal indignation of many
persons at the attempt made by the last ministry to do something for the relief of Ireland.
The general cry in the country was, that they would not see their beloved Monarch used ill
in his old age, and that they would stand by him to the last drop of their blood. I respect
good feelings, however erroneous be the occasions on which they display themselves; and therefore
I saw in all this as much to admire as to blame. It was a species of affection, however, which
reminded me very forcibly of the attachment displayed by the servants of the Russian ambassador
at the beginning of the last century. His Excellency happened to fall down in a kind of apoplectic
fit, when he was paying a morning visit in the house of an acquaintance. The confusion was
of course very great, and messengers were despatched in every direction to find a surgeon:
who, upon his arrival, declared that his Excellency must be immediately blooded, and prepared
himself forthwith to perform the operation: the barbarous servants of the embassy, who were
there in great numbers, no sooner saw the surgeon prepared to wound the arm of their master
with a sharp, shining instrument, than they drew their swords, put themselves in an attitude
of defence, and swore in pure Sclavonic, 'that they would murder any man who attempted to do
him the slightest injury: he had been a very good master to them, and they would not desert
him in his misfortunes, or suffer his blood to be shed while he was off his guard, and incapable
of defending himself.' By good fortune, the secretary arrived about this period of the dispute,
and his Excellency, relieved from superfluous blood and perilous affection, was, after much
difficulty, restored to life.

There is an argument brought forward with some appearance of plausibility in the House of Commons,
which certainly merits an answer: You know that the Catholics now vote for members of parliament
in Ireland, and that they outnumber the Protestants in a very great proportion; if you allow
Catholics to sit in parliament, religion will be found to influence votes more than property,
and the greater part of the 100 Irish members who are returned to parliament will be Catholics.
Add to these the Catholic members who are returned in England, and you will have a phalanx
of heretical strength which every minister will be compelled to respect, and occasionally to
conciliate by concessions incompatible with the interests of the Protestant Church. The fact
is, however, that you are at this moment subjected to every danger of this kind which you can
possibly apprehend hereafter. If the spiritual interests of the voters are more powerful than
their temporal interests, they can bind down their representatives to support any measures
favourable to the Catholic religion, and they can change the objects of their choice till they
have found Protestant members (as they easily may do) perfectly obedient to their wishes. If
the superior possessions of the Protestants prevent the Catholics from uniting for a common
political object, then danger you fear cannot exist: if zeal, on the contrary, gets the better
of acres, then the danger at present exists, from the right of voting already given to the
Catholics, and it will not be increased by allowing them to sit in parliament. There are, as
nearly as I can recollect, thirty seats in Ireland for cities and counties, where the Protestants
are the most numerous, and where the members returned must of course be Protestants. In the
other seventy representations the wealth of the Protestants is opposed to the number of the
Catholics; and if all the seventy members returned were of the Catholic persuasion, they must
still plot the destruction of our religion in the midst of 588 Protestants. Such terrors would
disgrace a cook-maid, or a toothless aunt--when they fall from the lips of bearded and senatorial
men, they are nauseous, antiperistaltic, and emetical.

How can you for a moment doubt of the rapid effects which would be produced by the emancipation?
In the first place, to my certain knowledge the Catholics have long since expressed to his
Majesty's Ministers their perfect readiness to vest in his Majesty, either with the consent
of the Pope, or without it if it cannot be obtained, the nomination of the Catholic prelacy.
The Catholic prelacy in Ireland consists of twenty-six bishops and the warden of Galway, a
dignitary enjoying Catholic jurisdiction. The number of Roman Catholic priests in Ireland exceeds
one thousand. The expenses of his peculiar worship are, to a substantial farmer or mechanic,
five shillings per annum; to a labourer (where he is not entirely excused) one shilling per
annum; this includes the contribution of the whole family, and for this the priest is bound
to attend them when sick, and to confess them when they apply to him; he is also to keep his
chapel in order, to celebrate divine service, and to preach on Sundays and holydays. In the
northern district a priest gains from £30 to £50; in the other parts of Ireland from £60 to
£90 per annum. The best paid Catholic bishops receive about £400 per annum; the others from
£300 to £350. My plan is very simple: I would have 300 Catholic parishes at £100 per annum,
300 at £200 per annum, and 400 at £300 per annum; this, for the whole thousand parishes, would
amount to £190,000. To the prelacy I would allot £20,000 in unequal proportions, from £1000
to £500; and I would appropriate £40,000 more for the support of Catholic Schools, and the
repairs of Catholic churches; the whole amount of which sum is £250,000, about the expense
of three days of one of our genuine, good English just and necessary wars. The clergy should
all receive their salaries at the Bank of Ireland, and I would place the whole patronage in
the hands of the Crown. Now, I appeal to any human being, except Spencer Perceval, Esq., of
the parish of Hampstead, what the disaffection of a clergy would amount to, gaping after this
graduated bounty of the Crown, and whether Ignatius Loyola himself, if he were a living blockhead
instead of a dead saint, could withstand the temptation of bouncing from £100 a year at Sligo,
to £300 in Tipperary? This is the miserable sum of money for which the merchants and landowners
and nobility of England are exposing themselves to the tremendous peril of losing Ireland.
The sinecure places of the Roses and the Percevals, and the 'dear and near relations,' put
up to auction at thirty years' purchase, would almost amount to the money.

I admit that nothing can be more reasonable than to expect that a Catholic priest should starve
to death, genteelly and pleasantly, for the good of the Protestant religion; but is it equally
reasonable to expect that he should do so for the Protestant pews, and Protestant brick and
mortar? On an Irish Sabbath the bell of a neat parish church often summons to church only the
parson and an occasionally conforming clerk; while, two hundred yards off, a thousand Catholics
are huddled together in a miserable hovel, and pelted by all the storms of heaven. Can anything
be more distressing than to see a venerable man pouring forth sublime truths in tattered breeches,
and depending for his food upon the little offal he gets from his parishioners? I venerate
a human being who starves for his principles, let them be what they may; but starving for anything
is not at all to the taste of the honourable flagellants: strict principles, and good pay,
is the motto of Mr. Perceval: the one he keeps in great measure for the faults of his enemies,
the other for himself.

There are parishes in Connaught in which a Protestant was never settled nor even seen. In that
province, in Munster, and in parts of Leinster, the entire peasantry for sixty miles are Catholics;
in these tracts the churches are frequently shut for want of a congregation, or opened to an
assemblage of from six to twenty persons. Of what Protestants there are in Ireland, the greatest
part are gathered together in Ulster, or they live in towns. In the country of the other three
provinces the Catholics see no other religion but their own, and are at the least as fifteen
to one Protestant. In the diocese of Tuam they are sixty to one; in the parish of St. Mulins,
diocese of Leghlin, there are four thousand Catholics and one Protestant; in the town of Grasgenamana,
in the county of Kilkenny, there are between four and five hundred Catholic houses, and three
Protestant houses. In the parish of Allen, county Kildare, there is no Protestant, though it
is very populous. In the parish of Arlesin, Queen's County, the proportion is one hundred to
one. In the whole county of Kilkenny, by actual enumeration, it is seventeen to one; in the
diocese of Kilmacduagh, province of Connaught, fifty-two to one, by ditto. These I give you
as a few specimens of the present state of Ireland; and yet there are men impudent and ignorant
enough to contend that such evils require no remedy, and that mild family man who dwelleth
in Hampstead can find none but the cautery and the knife.

    ----'Omne per ignem
    Excoquitur vitium.'

I cannot describe the horror and disgust which I felt at hearing Mr. Perceval call upon the
then Ministry for measures of vigour in Ireland. If I lived at Hampstead upon stewed meats
and claret; if I walked to church every Sunday before eleven young gentlemen of my own begetting,
with their faces washed, and their hair pleasingly combed; if the Almighty had blessed me with
every earthly comfort--how awfully would I pause before I sent forth the flame and the sword
over the cabins of the poor, brave, generous, open-hearted peasants of Ireland! How easy it
is to shed human blood; how easy it is to persuade ourselves that it is our duty to do so,
and that the decision has cost us a severe struggle; how much in all ages have wounds and shrieks
and tears been the cheap and vulgar resources of the rulers of mankind; how difficult and how
noble it is to govern in kindness and to found an empire upon the everlasting basis of justice
and affection! But what do men call vigour? To let loose hussars and to bring up artillery,
to govern with lighted matches, and to cut, and push, and prime; I call this not vigour, but
the sloth of cruelty and ignorance. The vigour I love consists in finding out wherein subjects
are aggrieved, in relieving them, in studying the temper and genius of a people, in consulting
their prejudices, in selecting proper persons to lead and manage them, in the laborious, watchful,
and difficult task of increasing public happiness by allaying each particular discontent. In
this way Hoche pacified La Vendée--and in this way only will Ireland ever be subdued. But this,
in the eyes of Mr. Perceval, is imbecility and meanness. Houses are not broken open, women
are not insulted, the people seem all to be happy; they are not rode over by horses, and cut
by whips. Do you call this vigour? Is this government? This latter, however, he himself for
a time actually entitled The Weekly Political Pamphlet, while he alluded to it under that name
even at other times; and his whole work was imbued even more deeply than that of Defoe with
the pamphlet character. I have selected two examples from the critical time when he was still
exasperated by his imprisonment, and stung into fresh efforts by debt and the prospect of fresh
difficulties. They exhibit in the most striking form all Cobbett's pet hatreds--of the unreformed
Parliament, of paper money, of political economy, of potatoes, and of many other things. The
first is the Register of 2d November 1816, the first number of the cheapened form, which was
sold at twopence, and so acquired the name of 'Twopenny Trash,' from a phrase of, as some say,
Canning's, others Castlereagh's. The second is an early number of the papers written from America.
They will, with the notes, explain themselves.)

LETTER TO THE JOURNEYMEN AND LABOURERS OF ENGLAND, WALES, SCOTLAND, AND IRELAND, ON THE CAUSE
OF THEIR PRESENT MISERIES; ON THE MEASURES WHICH HAVE PRODUCED THAT CAUSE; ON THE REMEDIES
WHICH SOME FOOLISH AND SOME CRUEL AND INSOLENT MEN HAVE PROPOSED; AND ON THE LINE OF CONDUCT
WHICH JOURNEYMEN AND LABOURERS OUGHT TO PURSUE, IN ORDER TO OBTAIN EFFECTUAL RELIEF, AND TO
ASSIST IN PROMOTING THE TRANQUILLITY AND RESTORING THE HAPPINESS OF THEIR COUNTRY.

Friends And Fellow-countrymen--Whatever the pride of rank, of riches, or of scholarship may
have induced some men to believe, or to affect to believe, the real strength and all the resources
of a country ever have sprung and ever must spring from the labour of its people; and hence
it is that this nation, which is so small in numbers and so poor in climate and soil compared
with many others, has, for many ages, been the most powerful nation in the world: it is the
most industrious, the most laborious, and, therefore, the most powerful. Elegant dresses, superb
furniture, stately buildings, fine roads and canals, fleet horses and carriages, numerous and
stout ships, warehouses teeming with goods; all these, and many other objects that fall under
our view, are so many marks of national wealth and resources. But all these spring from labour.
Without the journeyman and the labourer none of them could exist; without the assistance of
their hands the country would be a wilderness, hardly worth the notice of an invader.

As it is the labour of those who toil which makes a country abound in resources, so it is the
same class of men, who must, by their arms, secure its safety and uphold its fame. Titles and
immense sums of money have been bestowed upon numerous Naval and Military Commanders. Without
calling the justice of these in question, we may assert that the victories were obtained by
you and your fathers and brothers and sons, in co-operation with those Commanders, who, with
your aid, have done great and wonderful things; but who, without that aid, would have been
as impotent as children at the breast.

With this correct idea of your own worth in your minds, with what indignation must you hear
yourselves called the Populace, the Rabble, the Mob, the Swinish Multitude; and with what greater
indignation, if possible, must you hear the projects of those cool and cruel and insolent men,
who, now that you have been, without any fault of yours, brought into a state of misery, propose
to narrow the limit of parish relief, to prevent you from marrying in the days of your youth,
or to thrust you out to seek your bread in foreign lands, never more to behold your parents
or friends? But suppress your indignation, until we return to this topic, after we have considered
the cause of your present misery, and the measures which have produced that cause.

The times in which we live are full of peril. The nation, as described by the very creatures
of Government, is fast advancing to that period when an important change must take place. It
is the lot of mankind that some shall labour with their limbs and others with their minds;
and, on all occasions, more especially on an occasion like the present, it is the duty of the
latter to come to the assistance of the former. We are all equally interested in the peace
and happiness of our common country. It is of the utmost importance that, in the seeking to
obtain these objects, our endeavours should be uniform, and tend all to the same point. Such
an uniformity cannot exist without an uniformity of sentiment as to public matters, and to
produce this latter uniformity amongst you is the object of this address.

As to the cause of our present miseries, it is the enormous amount of the taxes which the Government
compels us to pay for the support of its army, its placemen, its pensioners, etc., and for
the payment of the interest of its debt. That this is the real cause has been a thousand times
proved; and it is now so acknowledged by the creatures of the Government themselves. Two hundred
and five of the Correspondents of the Board of Agriculture ascribe the ruin of the country
to taxation. Numerous writers, formerly the friends of the Pitt system, now declare that taxation
has been the cause of our distress. Indeed, when we compare our present state to the state
of the country previous to the wars against France, we must see that our present misery is
owing to no other cause. The taxes then annually raised amounted to about fifteen millions:
they amounted last year to seventy millions. The nation was then happy; it is now miserable.

The writers and speakers who labour in the cause of corruption, have taken great pains to make
the labouring classes believe that they are not taxed; that the taxes which are paid by the
landlords, farmers, and tradesmen, do not affect you, the journeymen and labourers; and that
the tax-makers have been very lenient towards you. But, I hope that you see to the bottom of
these things now. You must be sensible that if all your employers were totally ruined in one
day, you would be wholly without employment and without bread; and, of course, in whatever
degree your employers are deprived of their means, they must withhold means from you. In America
the most awkward common labourer receives five shillings a day, while provisions are cheaper
in that country than in this. Here, a carter, boarded in the house, receives about seven pounds
a year; in America, he receives about thirty pounds a year. What is it that makes this difference?
Why, in America the whole of the taxes do not amount to more than about ten shillings a head
upon the whole of the population; while in England they amount to nearly six pounds a head!
There, a journeyman or labourer may support his family well, and save from thirty to sixty
pounds a year: here, he amongst you is a lucky man, who can provide his family with food and
with decent clothes to cover them, without any hope of possessing a penny in the days of sickness
or of old age. There, the Chief Magistrate receives six thousand pounds a year; here, the civil
list surpasses a million of pounds in amount, and as much is allowed to each of the Princesses
in one year, as the chief magistrate of America receives in two years, though that country
is nearly equal to this in population.

A Mr. Preston, a lawyer of great eminence, and a great praiser of Pitt, has just published
a pamphlet, in which is this remark: 'It should always be remembered, that the eighteen pounds
a year paid to any placeman or pensioner, withdraws from the public the means of giving active
employment to one individual as the head of a family; thus depriving five persons of the means
of sustenance from the fruits of honest industry and active labour, and rendering them paupers.'
Thus this supporter of Pitt acknowledges the great truth that the taxes are the cause of a
people's poverty and misery and degradation. We did not stand in need of this acknowledgment;
the fact has been clearly proved before; but it is good for us to see the friends and admirers
of Pitt brought to make this confession.

It has been attempted to puzzle you with this sort of question: 'If taxes be the cause of the
people's misery, how comes it that they were not so miserable before the taxes were reduced
as they are now?' Here is a fallacy which you will be careful to detect. I know that the taxes
have been reduced; that is to say, nominally reduced, but not so in fact; on the contrary,
they have, in reality, been greatly augmented. This has been done by the sleight-of-hand of
paper money. Suppose, for instance, that four years ago, I had a hundred pounds to pay in taxes,
then a hundred and thirty bushels of wheat would have paid my share. If I have now seventy-five
pounds to pay in taxes, it will require a hundred and ninety bushels of wheat to pay my share
of taxes. Consequently, though my taxes are nominally reduced, they are, in reality, greatly
augmented. This has been done by the legerdemain of paper money. In 1812, the pound-note was
worth only thirteen shillings in silver. It is now worth twenty shillings. Therefore, when
we now pay a pound-note to the tax-gatherer, we really pay him twenty shillings where we before
paid him thirteen shillings; and the Landholders who lent pound-notes worth thirteen shillings
each, are now paid their interest in pounds worth twenty shillings each. And the thing is come
to what Sir Francis Burdett told the Parliament it would come to. He told them in 1811, that
if they ever attempted to pay the interest of their debt in gold and silver, or in paper money
equal in value to gold and silver, the farmers and tradesmen must be ruined, and the journeymen
and labourers reduced to the last stage of misery.

Thus, then, it is clear that it is the weight of the taxes, under which you are sinking, which
has already pressed so many of you down into the state of paupers, and which now threatens
to deprive many of you of your existence. We next come to consider what have been the causes
of this weight of taxes. Here we must go back a little in our history, and you will soon see
that this intolerable weight has all proceeded from the want of a Parliamentary Reform.

In the year 1764, soon after the present king came to the throne, the annual interest of the
Debt amounted to about five millions, and the whole of the taxes to about nine millions. But,
soon after this, a war was entered on to compel the Americans to submit to be taxed by the
Parliament, without being represented in that Parliament. The Americans triumphed, and, after
the war was over, the annual interest of the Debt amounted to about nine millions, and the
whole of the taxes to about fifteen millions. This was our situation when the French people
began their Revolution. The French people had so long been the slaves of a despotic government,
that the friends of freedom in England rejoiced at their emancipation. The cause of Reform,
which had never ceased to have supporters in England for a great many years, now acquired new
life, and the Reformers urged the Parliament to grant reform, instead of going to war against
the people of France. The Reformers said: 'Give the nation reform, and you need fear no revolution.'
The Parliament, instead of listening to the Reformers, crushed them, and went to war against
the people of France; and the consequence of these wars is, that the annual interest of the
Debt now amounts to forty-five millions, and the whole of the taxes, during each of the last
several years, to seventy millions. So that these wars have ADDED thirty-six millions a year
to the interest of the Debt, and fifty-five millions a year to the amount of the whole of the
taxes! This is the price that we have paid for having checked (for it is only checked) the
progress of liberty in France; for having forced upon that people the family of Bourbon, and
for having enabled another branch of that same family to restore the bloody Inquisition, which
Napoleon had put down.

Since the restoration of the Bourbons and of the old Government of France has been, as far
as possible, the grand result of the contest; since this has been the end of all our fightings
and all our past sacrifices and present misery and degradation; let us see (for the inquiry
is now very full of interest) what sort of Government that was which the French people had
just destroyed, when our Government began its wars against that people.

If, only twenty-eight years ago, any man in England had said that the Government of France
was one that ought to be suffered to exist, he would have been hooted out of any company. It
is notorious that that Government was a cruel despotism; and that we and our forefathers always
called it such. This description of that Government is to be found in all our histories, in
all our Parliamentary debates, in all our books on Government and politics. It is notorious,
that the family of Bourbon has produced the most perfidious and bloody monsters that ever disgraced
the human form. It is notorious that millions of Frenchmen have been butchered, and burnt,
and driven into exile by their commands. It is recorded, even in the history of France, that
one of them said that the putrid carcass of a Protestant smelt sweet to him. Even in these
latter times, so late as the reign of Louis XIV., it is notorious that hundreds of thousands
of innocent people were put to the most cruel death. In some instances, they were burnt in
their houses; in others they were shut into lower rooms, while the incessant noise of kettle-drums
over their heads, day and night, drove them to raving madness. To enumerate all the infernal
means employed by this tyrant to torture and kill the people, would fill a volume. Exile was
the lot of those who escaped the swords, the wheels, the axes, the gibbets, the torches of
his hell-hounds. England was the place of refuge for many of these persecuted people. The grandfather
of the present Earl of Radnor, and the father of the venerable Baron Maseres were amongst them;
and it is well known that England owes no inconsiderable part of her manufacturing skill and
industry to that atrocious persecution. Enemies of freedom, wherever it existed, this family
of Bourbon, in the reign of Louis XIV. and XV., fitted out expeditions for the purpose of restoring
the Stuarts to the throne of England, and thereby caused great expense and blood-shed to this
nation; and, even the Louis who was beheaded by his subjects, did, in the most perfidious manner,
make war upon England, during her war with America. No matter what was the nature of the cause,
his conduct was perfidious; he professed peace while he was preparing for war. His object could
not be to assist freedom, because his own subjects were slaves.

Such was the family that were ruling in France when the French Revolution began. After it was
resolved to go to war against the people of France, all the hirelings of corruption were set
to work to gloss over the character and conduct of the old Government, and to paint in the
most horrid colours the acts of vengeance which the people were inflicting on the numerous
tyrants, civil, military, and ecclesiastical, whom the change of things had placed at their
mercy. The people's turn was now come, and, in the days of their power, they justly bore in
mind the oppressions which they and their forefathers had endured. The taxes imposed by the
Government became at last intolerable. It had contracted a great debt to carry on its wars.
In order to be able to pay the interest of this debt, and to support an enormous standing army
in time of peace, it laid upon the people burdens which they could no longer endure. It fined
and flogged fathers and mothers if their children were detected in smuggling. Its courts of
justice were filled with cruel and base judges. The nobility treated the common people like
dogs; these latter were compelled to serve as soldiers, but were excluded from all share, or
chance of honour and command, which were engrossed by the nobility.

Now, when the time came for the people to have the power in their hands, was it surprising
that the first use they made of it was to take vengeance on their oppressors? I will not answer
this question myself. It shall be answered by Mr. Arthur Young, the present Secretary of the
Board of Agriculture. He was in France at the time, and living upon the very spot, and having
examined into the causes of the Revolution, he wrote and published the following remarks, in
his Travels, vol. i. page 603:--

     'It is impossible to justify the excesses of the people on
     their taking up arms; they were certainly guilty of
     cruelties; it is idle to deny the facts, for they have been
     proved too clearly to admit of doubt. But is it really the
     people to whom we are to impute the whole? Or to their
     oppressors, who had kept them so long in a state of bondage?
     He who chooses to be served by slaves and by ill-treated
     slaves, must know that he holds both his property and his
     life by a tenure far different from those who prefer the
     service of well-treated freemen; and he who dines to the
     music of groaning sufferers, must not, in the moment of
     insurrection, complain that his sons' throats are cut. When
     such evils happen, they surely are more imputable to the
     tyranny of the master than to the cruelty of the servant. The
     analogy holds with the French peasants. The murder of a
     seigneur, or a country seat in flames, is recorded in every
     newspaper; the rank of the person who suffers attracts
     notice; but where do we find the registers of that seigneur's
     oppressions of his peasantry, and his exactions of feudal
     services from those whose children were dying around them for
     want of bread? Where do we find the minutes that assigned
     these starving wretches to some vile pettifogger, to be
     fleeced by impositions, and mockery of justice, in the
     seigneural courts? Who gives us the awards of the Intendant
     and his sub-delegues, which took off the taxes of a man of
     fashion, and laid them with accumulated weight on the poor,
     who were so unfortunate as to be his neighbours? Who has
     dwelt sufficiently upon explaining all the ramifications of
     despotism, regal, aristocratical, and ecclesiastical,
     pervading the whole mass of the people; reaching, like a
     circulating fluid, the most distant capillary tubes of
     poverty and wretchedness? In these cases the sufferers are
     too ignoble to be known; and the mass too indiscriminate to
     be pitied. But should a philosopher feel and reason thus?
     Should he mistake the cause for the effect? and, giving all
     his pity to the few, feel no compassion for the many, because
     they suffer in his eyes not individually but by millions? The
     excesses of the people cannot, I fear, be justified; it would
     undoubtedly have done them credit, both as men and as
     Christians, if they had possessed their new acquired power
     with moderation. But let it be remembered that the populace
     in no country ever use power with moderation; excess is
     inherent in their aggregate constitution: and as every
     Government in the world knows that violence infallibly
     attends power in such hands, it is doubly bound in common
     sense, and for common safety, so to conduct itself, that the
     people may not find an interest in public confusions. They
     will always suffer much and long, before they are effectually
     roused; nothing, therefore, can kindle the flame but such
     oppressions of some classes or order in society as give able
     men the opportunity of seconding the general mass; discontent
     will diffuse itself around; and if the Government take not
     warning in time, it is alone answerable for all the burnings
     and all the plunderings and all the devastation and all the
     blood that follow.'

Who can deny the justice of these observations? It was the Government alone that was justly
chargeable with the excesses committed in this early stage, and, in fact, in every other stage,
of the Revolution of France. If the Government had given way in time, none of these excesses
would have been committed. If it had listened to the complaints, the prayers, the supplications,
the cries of the cruelly-treated and starving people; if it had changed its conduct, reduced
its expenses, it might have been safe under the protection of the peace-officers, and might
have disbanded its standing army. But it persevered; it relied upon the bayonet, and upon its
judges and hangmen. The latter were destroyed, and the former went over to the side of the
people. Was it any wonder that the people burnt the houses of their oppressors, and killed
the owners and their families? The country contained thousands upon thousands of men that had
been ruined by taxation, and by judgments of infamous courts of justice, 'a mockery of justice';
and, when these ruined men saw their oppressors at their feet, was it any wonder that they
took vengeance upon them? Was it any wonder that the son, who had seen his father and mother
flogged, because he, when a child, had smuggled a handful of salt, should burn for an occasion
to shoot through the head the ruffians who had thus lacerated the bodies of his parents? Moses
slew the insolent Egyptian who had smitten one of his countrymen in bondage. Yet Moses has
never been called either a murderer or a cruel wretch for this act; and the bondage of the
Israelites was light as a feather compared to the tyranny under which the people of France
had groaned for ages. Moses resisted oppression in the only way that resistance was in his
power. He knew that his countrymen had no chance of justice in any court; he knew that petitions
against his oppressors were all in vain; and 'looking upon the burdens' of his countrymen,
he resolved to begin the only sort of resistance that was left him. Yet it was little more
than a mere insult that drew forth his anger and resistance; and, if Moses was justified, as
he clearly was, what needs there any apology for the people of France?

It seems at first sight very strange that the Government of France should not have 'taken warning
in time.' But it had so long been in the habit of despising the people that its mind was incapable
of entertaining any notion of danger from the oppressions heaped upon them. It was surrounded
with panders and parasites who told it nothing but flattering falsehoods; and it saw itself
supported by two hundred and fifty thousand bayonets, which it thought irresistible; though
it found in the end that those who wielded those bayonets were not long so base as to be induced,
either by threats or promises, to butcher their brothers and sisters and parents. And, if you
ask me how it came to pass that they did not 'take warning in time,' I answer that they did
take warning, but that, seeing that the change which was coming would deprive them of a great
part of their power and emoluments, they resolved to resist the change, and to destroy the
country, if possible, rather than not have all its wealth and power to themselves. The ruffian
whom we read of, a little time ago, who stabbed a young woman because she was breaking from
him to take the arm of another man whom she preferred, acted upon the principle of the ministers,
the noblesse, and the clergy of France. They could no longer unjustly possess, therefore they
would destroy. They saw that if a just government were established; that if the people were
fairly represented in a national council; they saw that if this were to take place, they would
no longer be able to wallow in wealth at the expense of the people; and, seeing this, they
resolved to throw all into confusion, and, if possible, to make a heap of ruins of that country
which they could no longer oppress, and the substance of which they could no longer devour.

Talk of violence indeed! Was there anything too violent, anything too severe to be inflicted
on these men? It was they who produced confusion; it was they who caused the massacres and
guillotinings; it was they who destroyed the kingly government; it was they who brought the
king to the block. They were answerable for all and for every single part of the mischief,
as much as Pharaoh was for the plagues in Egypt, which history of Pharaoh seems, by the bye,
to be intended as a lesson to all future tyrants. He 'set taskmasters over the Israelites to
afflict them with burdens; and he made them build treasure cities for him; he made them serve
with rigour; he made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar and in brick, and in all
manner of service of the field; he denied them straw, and insisted upon their making the same
quantity of bricks, and because they were unable to obey, the taskmasters called them idle
and beat them.' Was it too much to scourge and to destroy all the first-born of men who could
tolerate, assist, and uphold a tyrant like this? Yet was Pharaoh less an oppressor than the
old government of France.

Thus, then, we have a view of the former state of that country, by wars against the people
of which we have been brought into our present state of misery. There are many of the hirelings
of corruption, who actually insist on it that we ought now to go to war again for the restoring
of all the cruel despotism which formerly existed in France. This is what cannot be done, however.
Our wars have sent back the Bourbons; but the tithes, the seigneurs, and many other curses
have not been restored. The French people still enjoy much of the benefit of the Revolution;
and great numbers of their ancient petty tyrants have been destroyed. So that even were things
to remain as they are, the French people have gained greatly by their Revolution. But things
cannot remain as they are. Better days are at hand.

In proceeding now to examine the remedies for your distresses, I shall first notice some of
those which foolish, or cruel and insolent men have proposed. Seeing that the cause of your
misery is the weight of taxation, one would expect to hear of nothing but a reduction of taxation
in the way of remedy; but from the friends of corruption never do we hear of any such remedy.
To hear them, one would think that you had been the guilty cause of the misery you suffer;
and that you, and you alone, ought to be made answerable for what has taken place. The emissaries
of corruption are now continually crying out against the weight of the Poor-rates, and they
seem to regard all that is taken in that way as a dead loss to the Government! Their project
is to deny relief to all who are able to work. But what is the use of your being able to work,
if no one will, or can, give you work? To tell you that you must work for your bread, and,
at the same time, not to find any work for you, is full as bad as it would be to order you
to make bricks without straw. Indeed, it is rather more cruel and insolent; for Pharaoh's taskmasters
did point out to the Israelites that they might go into the fields and get stubble. The Courier
newspaper of the 9th of October, says, 'We must thus be cruel only to be kind.' I am persuaded
that you will not understand this kindness, while you will easily understand the cruelty. The
notion of these people seems to be that everybody that receives money out of the taxes has
a right to receive it, except you. They tremble at the fearful amount of the Poor-rates: they
say, and very truly, that those rates have risen from two and a half to eight or ten millions
since the beginning of the wars against the people of France; they think, and not without reason,
that these rates will soon swallow up nearly all the rent of the land. These assertions and
apprehensions are perfectly well founded; but how can you help it? You have not had the management
of the affairs of the nation. It is not you who have ruined the farmers and tradesmen. You
only want food and raiment: you are ready to work for it; but you cannot go naked and without food.

But the complaints of these persons against you are the more unreasonable, because they say
not a word against the sums paid to sinecure placemen and pensioners. Of the five hundred and
more Correspondents of the Board of Agriculture, there are scarcely ten who do not complain
of the weight of the Poor-rates, of the immense sums taken away from them by the poor, and
many of them complain of the idleness of the poor. But not one single man complains of the
immense sums taken away to support sinecure placemen, who do nothing for their money, and to
support pensioners, many of whom are women and children, the wives and daughters of the nobility
and other persons in high life, and who can do nothing, and never can have done anything for
what they receive. There are of these places and pensions all sizes, from twenty pounds to
thirty thousand and nearly forty thousand pounds a year! And surely these ought to be done
away before any proposition be made to take the parish allowance from any of you who are unable
to work, or to find work to do. There are several individual placemen, the profits of each
of which would maintain a thousand families. The names of the ladies upon the pension list
would, if printed, one under another, fill a sheet of paper like this. And is it not, then,
base and cruel at the same time in these Agricultural correspondents to cry out so loudly against
the charge of supporting the unfortunate poor, while they utter not a word of complaint against
the sinecure places and pensions?

The unfortunate journeymen and labourers and their families have a right, they have a just
claim, to relief from the purses of the rich. For there can exist no riches and no resources
which they by their labour have not assisted to create. But I should be glad to know how the
sinecure placemen and lady pensioners have assisted to create food and raiment, or the means
of producing them. The labourer who is out of work or ill, to-day, may be able to work, and
set to work to-morrow. While those placemen and pensioners never can work; or, at least, it
is clear that they never intend to do it.

You have been represented by the Times newspaper, by the Courier, by the Morning Post, by the
Morning Herald, and others, as the scum of society. They say that you have no business at public
meetings; that you are rabble, and that you pay no taxes. These insolent hirelings, who wallow
in wealth, would not be able to put their abuse of you in print were it not for your labour.
You create all that is an object of taxation; for even the land itself would be good for nothing
without your labour. But are you not taxed? Do you pay no taxes? One of the correspondents
of the Board of Agriculture has said that care has been taken to lay as little tax as possible
on the articles used by you. One would wonder how a man could be found impudent enough to put
an assertion like this upon paper. But the people of this country have so long been insulted
by such men, that the insolence of the latter knows no bounds.

The tax gatherers do not, indeed, come to you and demand money of you: but there are few articles
which you use, in the purchase of which you do not pay a tax.

On your shoes, salt, beer, malt, hops, tea, sugar, candles, soap, paper, coffee, spirits, glass
of your windows, bricks and tiles, tobacco: on all these, and many other articles you pay a
tax, and even on your loaf you pay a tax, because everything is taxed from which the loaf proceeds.
In several cases the tax amounts to more than one half of what you pay for the article itself;
these taxes go in part to support sinecure placemen and pensioners; and the ruffians of the
hired press call you the scum of society, and deny that you have any right to show your faces
at any public meeting to petition for a reform, or for the removal of any abuse whatever!

Mr. Preston, whom I quoted before, and who is a member of Parliament and has a large estate,
says upon this subject, 'Every family, even of the poorest labourer, consisting of five persons,
may be considered as paying, in indirect taxes, at least ten pounds a year, or more than half
his wages at seven shillings a week!' And yet the insolent hirelings call you the mob, the
rabble, the scum, the swinish multitude, and say that your voice is nothing; that you have
no business at public meetings; and that you are, and ought to be considered as nothing in
the body politic! Shall we never see the day when these men will change their tone! Will they
never cease to look upon us [as on] brutes! I trust they will change their tone, and that the
day of the change is at no great distance!

The weight of the Poor-rate, which must increase while the present system continues, alarms
the corrupt, who plainly see that what is paid to relieve you, they cannot have. Some of them,
therefore, hint at your early marriages as a great evil, and a clergyman named Malthus has
seriously proposed measures for checking you in this respect; while one of the correspondents
of the Board of Agriculture complains of the increase of bastards, and proposes severe punishment
on the parents! How hard these men are to please! What would they have you do? As some have
called you the swinish multitude, would it be much wonder if they were to propose to serve
you as families of young pigs are served? Or if they were to bring forward the measure of Pharaoh,
who ordered the midwives to kill all the male children of the Israelites?

But, if you can restrain your indignation at these insolent notions and schemes, with what
feelings must you look upon the condition of your country, where the increase of the people
is now looked upon as a curse! Thus, however, has it always been, in all countries where taxes
have produced excessive misery. Our countryman, Mr. Gibbon, in his History of the Decline and
Fall of the Roman Empire, has the following passage: 'The horrid practice of murdering their
new-born infants was become every day more frequent in the provinces. It was the effect of
distress, and the distress was principally occasioned by the intolerable burden of taxes, and
by the vexatious as well as cruel prosecutions of the officers of the revenue against their
insolvent debtors. The less opulent or less industrious part of mankind, instead of rejoicing
at an increase of family, deemed it an act of paternal tenderness to release the children from
the impending miseries of a life which they themselves were unable to support.'

But that which took place under the base Emperor Constantine will not take place in England.
You will not murder your new-born infants, nor will you, to please the corrupt and insolent,
debar yourselves from enjoyments to which you are invited by the very first of Nature's laws.
It is, however, a disgrace to the country that men should be found in it capable of putting
ideas so insolent upon paper. So, then, a young man arm-in-arm with a rosy-cheeked girl must
be a spectacle of evil omen! What! and do they imagine that you are thus to be extinguished,
because some of you are now (without any fault of yours) unable to find work? As far as you
were wanted to labour, to fight, or to pay taxes, you were welcome, and they boasted of your
numbers; but now that your country has been brought into a state of misery, these corrupt and
insolent men are busied with schemes for getting rid of you. Just as if you had not as good
a right to live and to love and to marry as they have! They do not propose, far from it, to
check the breeding of sinecure placemen and pensioners, who are supported in part by the taxes
which you help to pay. They say not a word about the whole families who are upon the pension
list. In many cases there are sums granted in trust for the children of such a lord or such
a lady. And while labourers and journeymen who have large families too, are actually paying
taxes for the support of these lords' and ladies' children, these cruel and insolent men propose
that they shall have no relief, and that their having children ought to be checked! To such
a subject no words can do justice. You will feel as you ought to feel; and to the effect of
your feelings I leave these cruel and insolent men.

There is one more scheme to notice, which, though rather less against nature is not less hateful
and insolent; namely, to encourage you to emigrate to foreign countries. This scheme is distinctly
proposed to the Government by one of the correspondents of the Board of Agriculture. What he
means by encouragement must be to send away by force, or by paying for the passage; for a man
who has money stands in no need of relief. But, I trust, that not a man of you will move, let
the encouragement be what it may. It is impossible for many to go, though the prospect be ever
so fair. We must stand by our country, and it is base not to stand by her, as long as there
is a chance of seeing her what she ought to be. But the proposition is, nevertheless, base
and insolent This man did not propose to encourage the sinecure placemen and pensioners to
emigrate; yet, surely, you who help to maintain them by the taxes which you pay, have as good
a right to remain in the country as they have! You have fathers and mothers and sisters and
brothers and children and friends as well as they; but this base projector recommends that
you may be encouraged to leave your relations and friends for ever; while he would have the
sinecure placemen and pensioners remain quietly where they are!

No: you will not leave your country. If you have suffered much and long, you have the greater
right to remain in the hope of seeing better days.

We have seen that the cause of our miseries is the burden of taxes occasioned by wars, by standing
armies, by sinecures, by pensions, etc. It would be endless and useless to enumerate all the
different heads or sums of expenditure. The remedy is what we have now to look to, and that
remedy consists wholly and solely of such a reform in the Commons' or People's House of Parliament,
as shall give to every payer of direct taxes a vote at elections, and as shall cause the Members
to be elected annually.

In a late Register I have pointed out how easily, how peaceably, how fairly, such a Parliament
might be chosen. I am aware that it may, and not without justice, be thought wrong to deprive
those of the right of voting who pay indirect taxes. Direct taxes are those which are directly
paid by any person into the hands of the tax-gatherers, as the assessed rates and taxes. Indirect
taxes are those which are paid indirectly through the maker or seller of goods, as the tax
on soap or candles or salt or malt. And, as no man ought to be taxed without his consent, there
has always been a difficulty upon this head. There has been no question about the right of
every man who is free to exercise his will, who has a settled place in society, and who pays
a tax of any sort, to vote for Members of Parliament. The difficulty is in taking the votes
by any other means than by the Rate-book; for if there be no list of tax-payers in the hands
of any person, mere menial servants, vagrants, pickpockets, and scamps of all sorts might not
only come to the poll, but they might poll in several parishes or places, on one and the same
day. A corrupt rich man might employ scores of persons of this description, and in this way
would the purpose of reform be completely defeated. In America, where one branch of the Congress
is elected for four years and the other for two years, they have still adhered to the principle
of direct taxation, and in some of the States they have made it necessary for a voter to be
worth one hundred pounds. Yet they have, in that country, duties on goods, custom duties, and
excise duties also; and, of course, there are many persons who really pay taxes, and who, nevertheless,
are not permitted to vote. The people do not complain of this. They know that the number of
votes is so great that no corruption can take place, and they have no desire to see livery
servants, vagrants, and pickpockets take part in their elections. Nevertheless it would be
very easy for a reformed Parliament, when once it had taken root, to make a just arrangement
of this matter. The most likely method would be to take off the indirect taxes, and to put
a small direct tax upon every master of a house, however low his situation in life.

But this and all other good things, must be done by a reformed Parliament. We must have that
first, or we shall have nothing good; and any man who would beforehand take up your time with
the detail of what a reformed Parliament ought to do in this respect, or with respect to any
changes in the form of government, can have no other object than that of defeating the cause
of reform; and, indeed, the very act must show, that to raise obstacles is his wish.

Such men, now that they find you justly irritated, would persuade you that, because things
have been perverted from their true ends, there is nothing good in our constitution and laws.
For what, then, did Hampden die in the field, and Sydney on the scaffold? And has it been discovered
at last that England has always been an enslaved country from top to toe? The Americans, who
are a very wise people, and who love liberty with all their hearts, and who take care to enjoy
it too, took special care not to part with any of the great principles and laws which they
derived from their forefathers. They took special care to speak with reverence of, and to preserve
Magna Charta, the Bill of Rights, the Habeas Corpus, and not only all the body of the Common
Law of England, but most of the rules of our courts, and all our form of jurisprudence. Indeed
it is the greatest glory of England that she has thus supplied with sound principles of freedom
those immense regions which will be peopled perhaps by hundreds of millions.

I know of no enemy of reform and of the happiness of the country so great as that man who would
persuade you that we possess nothing good, and that all must be torn to pieces. There is no
principle, no precedent, no regulations (except as to mere matter of detail), favourable to
freedom, which is not to be found in the Laws of England or in the example of our ancestors.
Therefore I say we may ask for, and we want nothing new. We have great constitutional laws
and principles to which we are immovably attached. We want great alteration, but we want nothing
new. Alteration, modification, to suit the times and circumstances; but the great principles
ought to be and must, be the same, or else confusion will follow.

It was the misfortune of the French people that they had no great and settled principles to
refer to in their laws or history. They sallied forth and inflicted vengeance on their oppressors;
but, for want of settled principles to which to refer they fell into confusion; they massacred
each other; they next flew to a military chief to protect them even against themselves; and
the result has been what we too well know. Let us therefore congratulate ourselves that we
have great constitutional principles and laws, to which we can refer, and to which we are attached.

That reform will come I know, if the people do their duty; and all that we have to guard against
is confusion, which cannot come if reform take place in time. I have before observed to you
that when the friends of corruption in France saw that they could not prevent a change, they
bent their endeavours to produce confusion, in which they fully succeeded. They employed numbers
of unprincipled men to go about the country proposing all sorts of mad schemes. They produced
first a confusion in men's minds, and next a civil war between provinces, towns, villages and
families. The tyrant Robespierre, who was exceeded in cruelty only by some of the Bourbons,
was proved to have been in league with the open enemies of France. He butchered all the real
friends of freedom whom he could lay his hands on, except Paine, whom he shut up in a dungeon
till he was reduced to a skeleton. This monster was at last put to death himself; and his horrid
end ought to be a warning to any man who may wish to walk in the same path. But I am, for my
part, in little fear of the influence of such men. They cannot cajole you as Robespierre cajoled
the people of Paris. It is, nevertheless, necessary for you to be on your guard against them,
and when you hear a man talking big and hectoring about projects which go further than a real
and radical reform of the Parliament, be you well assured that that man would be a second Robespierre
if he could, and that he would make use of you and sacrifice the life of the very last man
of you; that he would ride upon the shoulders of some through rivers of the blood of others,
for the purpose of gratifying his own selfish and base and insolent ambition.

In order effectually to avoid the rock of confusion, we should keep steadily in our eye not
only what we wish to be done but what can be done now. We know that such a reform as would
send up a Parliament, chosen by all payers of direct taxes, is not only just and reasonable,
but easy of execution. I am therefore for accomplishing that object first; and I am not at
all afraid that a set of men who would really hold the purse of the people, and who had been
just chosen freely by the people, would very soon do everything that the warmest friend of
freedom could wish to see done.

While, however, you are upon your guard against false friends, you should neglect no opportunity
of doing all that is within your power to give support to the cause of reform. Petition is
the channel for your sentiments, and there is no village so small that its petition would not
have some weight. You ought to attend at every public meeting within your reach. You ought
to read to and to assist, each other in coming at a competent knowledge of all public matters.
Above all things, you ought to be unanimous in your object, and not suffer yourselves to be
divided.

The subject of religion has nothing to do with this great question of reform. A reformed Parliament
would soon do away with all religious distinctions and disabilities. In their eyes, a Catholic
and a Protestant would both appear in the same light.

The Courier, the Times, and other emissaries of corruption, are constantly endeavouring to
direct your wrath against bakers, brewers, butchers, and other persons who deal in the necessaries
of life. But, I trust that you are not to be stimulated to such a species of violence. These
tradesmen are as much in distress as you. They cannot help their malt and hops and beer and
bread and meat being too dear for you to purchase. They all sell as cheap as they can, without
being absolutely ruined. The beer you drink is more than half tax, and when the tax has been
paid by the seller he must have payment back again from you who drink, or he must be ruined.
The baker has numerous taxes to pay, and so has the butcher, and so has the miller and the
farmer. Besides, all men are eager to sell, and, if they could sell cheaper they certainly
would, because that would be the sure way of getting more custom. It is the weight of the taxes
which presses us all to the earth, except those who receive their incomes out of those taxes.
Therefore I exhort you most earnestly not to be induced to lay violent hands on those who really
suffer as much as yourselves.

On the subject of lowering wages too, you ought to consider that your employers cannot give
to you that which they have not. At present, corn is high in price, but that high price is
no benefit to the farmer, because it has risen from the badness of the crop, which Mr. Hunt
foretold at the Common Hall, and for the foretelling of which he was so much abused by the
hirelings of the press, who, almost up to this very moment, have been boasting and thanking
God for the goodness of the crop! The farmer whose corn is half destroyed, gains nothing by
selling the remaining half for double the price at which he would have sold the whole. If I
grow 10 quarters of wheat, and if I save it all and sell it for two pounds a quarter, I receive
as much money as if I had sold the one-half of it for four pounds a quarter. And I am better
off in the former case, because I want wheat for seed, and because I want some to consume myself.
These matters I recommend to your serious consideration; because it being unjust to fall upon
your employers to force them to give that which they have not to give, your conduct in such
cases must tend to weaken the great cause in which we ought all now to be engaged, namely the
removal of our burdens through the means of a reformed Parliament. It is the interest of vile
men of all descriptions to set one part of the people against the other part; and therefore
it becomes you to be constantly on your guard against their allurements.

When journeymen find their wages reduced, they should take time to reflect on the real cause,
before they fly on their employers, who are in many cases in as great or greater distress than
themselves. How many of those employers have of late gone to jail for debt and left helpless
families behind them! The employer's trade falls off. His goods are reduced in price. His stock
loses the half of its value. He owes money. He is ruined; and how can he continue to pay high
wages? The cause of his ruin is the weight of the taxes, which presses so heavily on us all,
that we lose the power of purchasing goods. But it is certain that a great many, a very large
portion of the farmers, tradesmen, and manufacturers, have, by their supineness and want of
public spirit, contributed towards the bringing of this ruin upon themselves and upon you.
They have skulked from their public duty. They have kept aloof from, or opposed all measures
for a redress of grievances; and indeed, they still skulk, though ruin and destruction stare
them in the face. Why do they not now come forward and explain to you the real cause of the
reduction of your wages? Why do they not put themselves at your head in petitioning for redress?
This would secure their property much better than the calling in of troops, which can never
afford them more than a short and precarious security. In the days of their prosperity they
were amply warned of what has now come to pass; and the far greater part of them abused and
calumniated those who gave them the warning. Even if they would now act the part of men worthy
of being relieved, the relief to us all would speedily follow. If they will not; if they will
still skulk, they will merit all the miseries which they are destined to suffer.

Instead of coming forward to apply for a reduction of those taxes which are pressing them as
well as you to the earth, what are they doing? Why, they are applying to the Government to
add to their receipts by passing Corn Bills, by preventing foreign wool from being imported;
and many other silly schemes. Instead of asking for a reduction of taxes they are asking for
the means of paying taxes! Instead of asking for the abolition of sinecure places and pensions,
they pray to be enabled to continue to pay the amount of those places and pensions! They know
very well that the salaries of the judges and of many other persons were greatly raised, some
years ago, on the ground of the rise in the price of labour and provisions, why then do they
not ask to have those salaries reduced, now that labour is reduced? Why do they not apply to
the case of the judges and others the arguments which they apply to you? They can talk boldly
enough to you; but they are too great cowards to talk to the Government, even in the way of
petition! Far more honourable is it to be a ragged pauper than to be numbered among such men.

