[Footnote 1: The Lives of those eminent Antiquaries, Elias Ashmole, Esquire, and Mr. William
Lilly, written by themselves; containing first, William Lilly's History of his Life and Times,
with Notes by Mr Ashmole; secondly, Lilly's Life and Death of Charles I; and lastly, the Life
of Elias Ashmole, Esq., by way of Diary, etc. London, 1774.]

[Footnote 2: Lilly's Life and Death of King Charles I.]

[Footnote 3: The Lives of those eminent Antiquaries, Ellas Ashmole and William Lilly, &c. London,
1774.]

[Footnote 4: See Pepys' Diary and Correspondence. London, 1858. CON.]

JEFFERSON DAVIS--REPUDIATION, RECOGNITION, AND SLAVERY. It was then shown that the High Court
of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi, the tribunal designated by the Constitution of the State,
had unanimously decided that these bonds were constitutional and valid, and that more than
seven years thereafter, Mr. Jefferson Davis had nevertheless sustained the repudiation of those
bonds.

In his letter before quoted, of the 23d March last, Mr. Slidell, the minister of Jefferson
Davis at Paris, says, 'There is a wide difference between these (Union) bonds and those of
the Planters' Bank, for the repudiation of which neither excuse nor palliation can be offered.'
And yet I shall now proceed to prove, that Mr. Jefferson Davis did not only palliate and excuse,
but justified the repudiation, in fact, of those bonds by the State of Mississippi. First,
then, has Mississippi repudiated those bonds? The principal and interest now due on those bonds
exceed $5,000,000 (£1,000,000), and yet, for a quarter of a century, the State has not paid
one dollar of principal or interest. 2. The State, by act of the Legislature (ch. 17), referred
the question of taxation for the payment of those bonds to the vote of the people, and their
decision was adverse. As there was no fund available for the payment, except one to be derived
from taxation, this popular vote (to which the question was submitted by the Legislature) was
a decision of the State for repudiation, and against payment. 3. The State, at one time (many
years after the sale of the bonds), had made them receivable in purchase of certain State lands,
but, as this was 'at three times its current value,' as shown by the London Times, in its article
heretofore quoted by me, this was only another form of repudiation. 4. When a few of the bondholders
commenced taking small portions of these lands in payment, because they could get nothing else,
the State repealed the law (ch. 22), and provided no substitute. 5. The State, by law, deprived
the bondholders of the stock of the Planters' Bank ($2,000,000), and of the sinking fund pledged
to the purchasers for the redemption of these bonds when they were sold by the State. Surely
there is here ample evidence of repudiation and bad faith.

The bonds issued by the State of Mississippi to the Planters' Bank were based upon a law of
the State, and affirmed, by name, in a specific provision of the State Constitution of 1832.
The State, through its agent, received the money, and loaned it to the citizens of the State,
and the validity of these obligations is conceded by Mr. Slidell and Mr. Davis.

These bonds were for $2,000,000, bearing an interest of six per cent. per annum, and were sold
at a premium of 13-1/2 per cent For those bonds, besides the premium, the State received $2,000,000
of stock of the Planters' Bank, upon which, up to 1838, the State realized ten per cent. dividends,
being $200,000 per annum. In January, 1841, the Legislature of Mississippi unanimously adopted
resolutions affirming the validity of these bonds, and the duty of the State to pay them. (Sen.
Jour. 314.)

In his message to the Legislature of 1843, Governor Tucker says:

     'On the 1st of January, 1838, the State held stock in the Planters'
     Bank for $2,000,000, which stock had, prior to that time, yielded
     to the State a dividend of $200,000 per annum. I found also the
     first instalment of the bonds issued on account of the Planters'
     Bank, $125,000, due and unpaid, as well as the interest for several
     years on said bonds.' (Sen. Jour. 25.)

The Planters' Bank (as well as the State), by the express terms of the law, was bound for the
principal and interest of these bonds. Now, in 1839, Mississippi passed an act (Acts, ch. 42),
'to transfer the stock now held by the State in the Planters' Bank, and invest the same in
stock of the Mississippi Railroad Company.' By the first section of this act, the Governor
was directed to subscribe for $2,000,000 of stock in the railroad company for the State, and
to pay for it by transferring to the company the Planters' Bank stock, which had been secured
to the State by the sale of the Planters' Bank bonds. The 10th section released the Planters'
Bank from the obligation to provide for the payment of these bonds or interest. Some enlightened
members, including Judge Gholson, afterward of the Federal Court, protested against this act
as unconstitutional, by impairing the obligation of contracts, and as a fraud on the bondholders.

They say in this protest:

     'The money which paid for the stock proposed to be transferred from
     the Planters' Bank to the Mississippi Railroad Company, was, under
     the provisions of the charter, obtained by loans on the part of the
     State, for the payment of which the stock, in addition to the faith
     of the Government, was pledged to the holders of the bonds of the
     State. By the terms of the contract between the commissioners on
     the part of the State and the purchasers of the bonds, the interest
     on the loans is required to be paid semiannually out of the
     semiannual dividends accruing upon the said stock; and the
     surplus of such dividends, after paying the said interest, is to be
     converted into a sinking fund for the payment and liquidation of
     said loans. The bill, as the title purports, simply provides for
     the transfer of the stock now held by the State in the Planters'
     Bank, and that the same shall be invested in the stock of the
     Mississippi Railroad Company, leading from Natchez to Canton, which
     has banking privileges to twice the amount of capital stock paid
     in. The transferring of the stock and dividend to another
     irresponsible corporation, and the appropriation of the same to the
     construction of a road, is a violation of and impairing the
     obligation of the contract made and entered into with the
     purchasers or holders of the bonds of the State, under a solemn act
     of the Legislature. If it should be thought that a people, composed
     of so much virtue, honor, and chivalry, as the noble and generous
     Mississippians, would disdain, and consequently refrain, from
     repealing or violating their plighted faith, it may be answered,
     that the faith of the State, solemnly and sacredly pledged by an
     act of the Legislature, with all the formality and solemnity of a
     constitutional law, is violated by the provisions of this very bill
     under consideration. The faith of the State is pledged to the
     holders of the bonds, by the original and subsequent acts
     incorporating the Planters' Bank, as solemnly as national or
     legislative pledges can be made, that the stock and dividends
     accruing thereon shall be faithfully appropriated to the redemption
     and payment of said loans and all interest thereon, as they
     respectively become due; the appropriation of this fund to an other
     purpose is, therefore, a violation of the faith of the State.'
     (House Jour. 443.)

Thus was it, that the stock of the bank, which for so many years had been yielding a dividend
far exceeding the interest on the loan, and which stock had been pledged for the redemption
of the loan, was diverted to the building of a railroad, which never did or could yield a single
dollar, and the company soon became insolvent. By another clause of this act of 1839, the Planters'
Bank, which, by the loan act, was made responsible (together with the State) for the payment
of these bonds, was released from the obligation to make such payments.

And now, what is the answer of Jefferson Davis on this subject? He says, in his letter of the
25th May, 1849, before quoted:

     'A smaller amount is due for what are termed Planters' Bank bonds
     of Mississippi. These evidences of debt, as well as the coupons
     issued to cover accruing interest, are receivable for State lands,
     and no one has a right to assume they will not be provided for
     otherwise, by or before the date at which the whole debt becomes
     due.'

To this the London Times replied, in its editorial of the 13th July, 1849, before quoted, as
follows:

     'The assurance in this statement that the Planters' Bank, or
     non-repudiated bonds, are receivable for State lands, requires this
     addition, which Mr. Jefferson Davis has omitted, that they are only
     so receivable upon land being taken at three times its current
     value. The affirmation afterward, that no one has a right to assume
     that these bonds will not be fully provided for before the date at
     which the principal falls due, is simply to be met by the fact,
     that portions of them fell due in 1841 and 1846, and that on these,
     as well as on all the rest, both principal and interest remain
     wholly unpaid.'

Mr. Davis's 'palliation and excuse' for the non-payment of these bonds was: 1st. That the principal
was not due. If this were true, it would be no excuse for the non-payment of the semi-annual
interest. But the statement of Jefferson Davis as to the principal was not true, as shown by
the Times, and as is clear upon the face of the law. Then, as to the lands. The bonds, principal
aid interest, were payable in money, and it was a clear case of repudiation to substitute lands.
But when, as stated by the Times, this land was only receivable 'at three times its current
value,' Mr. Davis's defence of the repudiation of the Planters' Bank bonds by Mississippi,
is exposed in all its deformity. When, however, we reflect, as heretofore shown, that the law
authorizing the purchase of these lands by these bonds was repealed, and the bondholders left
without any relief, and the proposition for taxation to pay the bonds definitively rejected,
it is difficult to imagine a case more atrocious than this.

The whole debt, principal and interest, now due by the State of Mississippi, including the
Planters' and Union Bank bonds, exceeds $11,250,000 (£2,250,000). Not a dollar of principal
or interest has been paid by the State for more than a fourth of a century on any of these
bonds. The repudiation is complete and final, so long as slavery exists in Mississippi. Now,
would it not seem reasonable that, before Mississippi and the other Confederate States, including
Florida and Arkansas, ask another loan from Europe, they should first make some provision for
debts now due, or, at least, manifest a disposition to make some arrangement for it at some
future period. If a debtor fails to meet his engagements, especially if he repudiates them
on false and fraudulent pretexts, he can borrow no more money, and the same rule surely should
apply to states or nations. Nor can any pledge of property not in possession of such a borrower,
or, if so, not placed in the hands of the lender, change the position. It is (even if the power
to pay exists) still a question of good faith, and where that has been so often violated, all
subsequent pledges or promises should be regarded as utterly worthless.

The Times, in reference to the repudiation of its Union Bank bonds by Mississippi, and the
justification of that act by Jefferson Davis, says:

     'Let it circulate throughout Europe that a member of the United
     States Senate in 1849 has openly proclaimed, that at a recent
     period the Governor and legislative assemblies of his own State
     deliberately issued fraudulent bonds for five millions of dollars
     to 'sustain the credit of a rickety bank;' that, the bonds in
     question having been hypothecated abroad to innocent holders, such
     holders have not only no claim against the community by whose
     executive and representatives this act was committed, but that they
     are to be taunted for appealing to the verdict of the civilized
     world rather than to the judgment of the legal officers of the
     State by whose functionaries they have been already robbed; and
     that the ruin of toil-worn men, of women, of widows, and of
     children, and the 'crocodile tears' which that ruin has occasioned,
     is a subject of jest on the part of those by whom it has been
     accomplished; and then let it be asked if any foreigner ever penned
     a libel on the American character equal to that against the people
     of Mississippi by their own Senator.'

Such was the opinion then expressed by the London Times of Jefferson Davis and of the repudiation
advocated by him. It was denounced as robbery, 'the ruin of toil-worn men, of women, of widows,
and of children.' And what is to be thought of the 'faith' of a so-called Government, which
has chosen this repudiator as their chief, and what of the value of the Confederate bonds now
issued by him? Why, the legal tender notes of the so-called Confederate Government, fundable
in a stock bearing eight per cent, interest, is now worth in gold at their own capital of Richmond,
less than ten cents on the dollar (2s., on the pound), whilst in two thirds of their territory
such notes are utterly worthless; and it is TREASON for any citizen of the United States, North
or South, or any ALIEN resident there, to deal in them, or in Confederate bonds, or in the
cotton pledged for their payment. No form of Confederate bonds, or notes, or stock, will ever
be recognized by the Government of the United States, and the cotton pledged by slaveholding
traitors for the payment of the Confederate bonds is all forfeited for treason, and confiscated
to the Federal Government by act of Congress. As our armies advance, this cotton is either
burned by the retreating rebel troops, or seized by our forces, and shipped and sold from time
to time, for the benefit of the Federal Government. By reference to the census of 1860, it
will be seen that three fourths of the whole cotton crop was raised in States (now held by
the Federal army and navy) touching the Mississippi and its tributaries, and all the other
ports are either actually held or blockaded by the Federal forces. The traitor pledge of this
cotton is, then, wholly unavailing; the bonds are utterly worthless; they could not be sold
at any price in the United States, and those who force them on the London market, in the language
of the Times, before quoted, will only accomplish 'the ruin of toil-worn, men, of women, of
widows, and of children.'

But the advocacy of repudiation by Jefferson Davis has not been confined to his own State,
as I shall proceed to demonstrate in my next letter.

R.J. WALKER.

DIARY OF FRANCES KRASINSKA;

OR, LIFE IN POLAND DURING THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY,

Tuesday, March 19th.

The Prince and Princess Lubomirski left us about half an hour ago; they had decided upon going
yesterday, but my father told them that Monday was an unfortunate day, and fearing that this
argument would not possess sufficient weight, he ordered the wheels to be taken off their carriage.

They overwhelmed me with kindness during their sojourn in the castle; the princess, especially,
treated me with great affability. Both she and the prince take a deep interest in my future
lot; they endeavored to persuade my parents to send me to Warsaw to finish my education.

A foreigner, Miss Strumle, who, however, receives universally the title of madame, has recently
opened a young ladies' boarding school in Warsaw. This school enjoys a high reputation, and
all the young ladies of distinction are sent there to finish their education. It is the same
for a young lady to have been some time at Madame Strumle's as for a young gentlemen to have
been at Luneville. The prince palatine advised my mother to send me for a year to Madame Strumle.
My parents prefer the Sisters of the Holy Sacrament; they say that nothing can be better than
a convent.

I do not know what will be their final decision, but I feel restless and agitated. I no longer
find pleasure in my reading; my work is tedious to me, and not so well executed as formerly;
the future occupies my mind much more than the present; in short, I am in a constant state
of excitement, as if awaiting some great event. Since the visit of the prince and princess
I have an entirely different opinion of myself, and I am by no means so happy as I was before....
In truth, I no longer understand myself.

Sunday, March 24th.

Ah I God be praised, my suspense is over, and we leave day after to-morrow for Warsaw. My parents
have been suddenly called there on matters of business connected with the recent death of my
uncle, Blaise Krasinski, who has left a large fortune and no children. I do not yet know whether
I am to be placed at a boarding school or not, but I believe it will be a long time before
I return to Maleszow.

Ah! how happy the idea of this journey makes me! We will go a little out of our way, that we
may stop at Sulgostow. Her ladyship the starostine has at length, after a very agreeable tour,
returned to her palace. The starost has introduced her to all his cousins, friends, and neighbors;
she was everywhere admirably received, and will now settle down in her own mansion, at which
prospect she is very well pleased; she has all the necessary qualifications for becoming a
good housekeeper. The Palatine Swidzinski spoke of her so affectionately in one of his letters
that my parents wept hot tears, but tears of joy, so sweet and go rare. Barbara has always
been a source of happiness to her parents.

Warsaw, Sunday, April 7th.

I can scarcely believe it, but here I am fairly installed in Madame Strumle's famous boarding
school. The princess palatine's advice has prevailed, and Madame Strumle has received the preference
over the Sisters of the Holy Sacrament. God be praised, for I really was very anxious to come
here. I received a most flattering reception.

On our way to Warsaw we stopped at Sulgustow. We found her ladyship the starostine gay and
most hospitable; the presence of our dear parents filled the measure of her happiness. She
assured me that the delight of receiving one's parents in one's own house could be neither
expressed nor understood. 'You must yourself experience it,' added she, 'before you can form
any idea of it.'

On the table were all the dishes, confections, and beverages preferred by our parents. Barbara
forgot nothing which could be agreeable to them, and the starost aided her wonderfully in all
her efforts. My mother remarked that Barbara was still better since her marriage than before,
to which the starost replied:

'Indeed, she is no better, for thus did I receive her from the hands of your highnesses. But
she gladly profits by the present opportunity to testify her gratitude; she shows here those
lovely and precious qualities which you have cultivated in her soul, and during the past three
days she has been for her parents what she is every day for me.'

There was no flattery in what the starost said--it came really from his heart. He adores Barbara,
and she respects, honors, and obeys him as if he were her father.

She understands perfectly the whole management of a household, and does the honors of her mansion
most gracefully. Every one praises her, and the young ladies and waiting women who followed
her from Maleszow are delighted with their new position.

My parents regretted the necessity of parting from their daughter; they would willingly have
remained longer; but I must confess I was very anxious to see Warsaw, and was charmed when
they received letters obliging them to hasten their departure.

It was really a true instinct which gave me a preference for this place. I study well, and
must improve. My education will be complete, and I may perhaps become a superior woman, as
I have always desired to do; but I need much study and close application to bring me to that
point; above all, must I chain my wandering fancies, and not suffer them to stray about so
vaguely as I have hitherto done.

Yesterday my mother came to take me to church. I made my confession, and communed for the intention
of using well the new acquirements which I have now the opportunity of making.

When I am well established here, I will write in my journal every day as I did at Maleszow;
but I am still in a state of excitement from all I have seen, and I must first become better
acquainted with my new dwelling.

Wednesday, April 17th.

I am already quite familiar with all the regulations of the school. I am very well pleased
with Madame Strumle; she has excellent manners, and is very kind to me. I might perhaps regret
our court, the magnificence, bustle, and gayety of our castle, but there comes a time for everything,
and we live here very happily and comfortably.

That which seems most strange and entirely new to me is, that there is not even a little boy
in the house, no men servants, women always, and only women; they wait upon us even at table.

There are about fifteen boarders, all young, and belonging to the best families.

Every one speaks highly of Miss Marianne, the Starost Swidzinski's sister, now married to the
Castellan of Polaniec; she spent two years at the school, and has left an ineffaceable impression
in the hearts of Madame Strumle and her young companions. They say she was very accomplished,
very good and sensible, very gay, and very studious.

My parents, after having made a thorough examination of the school, felt quite satisfied; and
truly they might well be so, for no one could be more securely guarded in a convent than here.
Madame keeps the key of the front door always in her pocket; no one can go out or come in without
her knowledge, and were it not for two or three aged masters of music and the languages, we
might be in danger of forgetting the very existence of man-kind.

It is expressly forbidden to receive visits even from one's male cousins within the walls of
the school. The dancing master desired that the young potockis should come and learn quadrilles
with their sisters and myself, but madame rejected this proposition at once, saying, 'These
gentlemen are not the brothers of all my boarders, and I cannot permit them to enter my school.'

We have masters in French and German, as also in drawing, music, and embroidery. We learn music
on a fine piano of five octaves and a half. What an improvement on that of Maleszow! Some of
the scholars play polonaises very well, but not by rote; they read them from the notes. My
master tells me that in six months I will have reached this perfection; but then I already
had some ideas of music when I came.

I draw quite well from the patterns set before me, but ere I proceed any further, I wish to
paint a tree in oil colors. On one of the branches I will hang a garland of flowers, encircling
the cypher of my parents, and will thus testify to them my gratitude for all they have done
for me, and especially for the care they have bestowed upon my education.

The young Princess Sapieha, who has been here a year, is at present employed upon such a picture,
and I envy her her pleasure every time my eyes fall upon the work.

What a fine effect my picture will make in our hall at Maleszow, beneath the portrait of our
good uncle, the Bishop of Kamieniec!

Our dancing master, besides the minuet and quadrilles, teaches us to walk and courtesy gracefully.
To tell the truth, I was so ignorant when I came, that I knew but one mode of making a salutation;
but there are several kinds, which must be employed toward personages of different ranks; one
for the king, another for the princes of the blood, and still another for lords and ladies of rank.

I learned first how to salute the prince royal, and succeeded quite well; some day, perhaps,
this knowledge may be useful to me.

My lessons follow one another regularly, and I am so anxious to learn that the time passes
rapidly and agreeably.

My mother is very much occupied with family affairs, and has been only once to see me.

When I first entered the school, everything surprised me, but what seemed to me most strange
was that I was continually reproved, and even obliged to undergo real penance. An iron cross
was placed at my back to make me hold myself upright, and my limbs were enclosed in a kind
of wooden box, to straighten them. I must however think that they were already quite straight
enough. All that was not very amusing for me, who thought myself already a young lady. Since
Barbara's marriage I had myself been asked in marriage, and the prince palatine had not treated
me as if I were a child!

Madame Strumle has commanded me to omit in future these words from my prayers: 'O my God, give
me a good husband,' and to say instead, 'Give me the grace to profit by the good education
I am receiving.'

One must here work continually, or think of one's work, and of nothing else.

Sunday, April 28th.

I have been nearly three weeks at Madame Strumle's school, and my poor journal has been quite
neglected during all that time; but the uniformity of my life, these monotonous hours, all
passed in the constant repetition of the same occupations, afford no matter for interesting
details or descriptions.

At this very moment, when I hold the pen in my hand, I am ready to lay it down, so great is
the poverty of my observations.

My parents will soon leave. The princess palatiness has honored me with a visit; she remarked
that my carriage was much improved. My masters are all satisfied with the closeness of my application.
Madame is especially kind to me, and my companions are polite and friendly.... But is all this
worth the trouble of writing?

I sometimes fancy that I am not really in Warsaw, so ignorant am I with regard to all political
events. I have seen neither the king nor the royal family. At Maleszow we at least hear the
news, and occasionally see Borne distinguished men.

The Duke of Courland is absent, and will not return for some time.

Sunday, June 9th

If I were to live forever in this school, I should give up writing in my journal, and it really
serves one very valuable purpose; for I find I am in great danger of forgetting Polish. With
the exception of the letters I write to my parents, and the few words I say to my maid, I always
write and speak French.

I progress in all my studies, and if I am sometimes melancholy, at least my time is not lost.

The princess palatiness has again been to see me. A month had passed since her last visit;
she found me considerably taller, and was kind enough to praise my manners and bearing.

I am the tallest of all our boarders, and it really pleases me exceedingly to find that my
waist is not quite a half yard round.

Summer has come, the fine weather has returned, but I cannot go out--a privation which is really
quite vexatious. Ah! how I wish I were a little bird! I would fly away, far away--and then
I would return to my cage.

But my days and my nights must all be spent in this dull house and in this ugly street; I believe
that Cooper street (ulika Bednarska) is the darkest, dingiest, and dirtiest street in Warsaw.
God willing, next year I shall be no longer here.

Friday, July 28th.

Labor has at least the good quality of making the time pass more rapidly; our days vanish one
by one, without distractions or news from without.

I just now felt a desire to write in my journal, and when I consulted the almanac to find out
the day of the month, I was quite surprised to find that seven whole weeks had passed since
I had written a single word in my poor diary.

This day certainly deserves to be noted down, for never since I was born did such a thing happen
to me as I experienced this morning. I received a letter by the mail, and the world is no longer
ignorant that the Countess Frances Krasinska is now living in Warsaw! I danced with joy when
I saw my letter, my own letter! It came from her ladyship, the Starostine Swidzinska; I shall
keep it as a precious and delightful remembrance. My sister writes to me that she is quite
well, and happy beyond all I can imagine; she was kind enough to send me four gold ducats,
which she has saved from her own private purse.

For the first time in my life I have money to spend as I will, which gives me great pleasure.
With the money came the desire to spend, and a variety of projects; it seemed to me as if I
could buy the whole city.

Thanks to my parents, I need nothing, and I will buy nothing for myself; but I would have liked
to leave a pretty remembrance to each of my companions, a gold ring, for example; but madame
quite distressed me by telling me that my four ducats would only buy four rings-a real affliction
to me, who had hope to purchase, besides the rings, a blonde mantle for Madame Strumle herself....
All my projects are overturned; I have learned that the mantle will cost at least a hundred
ducats, and have thence determined to give one ducat to the parish church, to have a mass said
in the chapel of Jesus to draw the blessing of Heaven upon the affairs now occupying my parents,
and for the continuation of the happiness of her ladyship the starostine. I will have another
ducat changed into small coin, to be distributed among all the servants in the house; there
will still remain two ducats, which will buy a charming collation for my companions on Sunday
next. We will have coffee, an excellent beverage, which we never see here, cakes, and fruit.
Madame Strumle willingly consented to this last project.

May God reward my dear starostine for the happiness she has bestowed upon me! There can be
no greater pleasure than that of making presents and regaling one's friends. If I am anxious
to have a husband richer than I am myself, it is solely that I may be very generous.

I am not losing my time; I improve daily. I can already play several minuets and cotillons
from the notes, and will soon learn a polonaise. The most fashionable one just now has a very
strange name; it is called the Thousand Fiends.

In one month more I shall begin my tree in oil colors, with its allegoric garland.

Notwithstanding my more serious studies, I by no means neglect my little feminine occupations.
I am embroidering on canvas a huntsman carrying a gun, and holding his hound by a leash.

I read a great deal, I write under dictation, I copy good works, an excellent method of forming
one's own style. I speak French quite as well as Polish, perhaps even better; in short, I think
I will soon be fitted to make my appearance in the best society.

As for dancing, I need scarcely say that that progresses wonderfully; my master, who has no
reason to flatter me, assures me that in all Warsaw no one dances better than I do.

I occasionally visit the Prince and Princess Lubomirski, but at times when they have no company.
I always hear there many agreeable and flattering things, especially from the prince. He is
desirous that I should leave school now, but the princess and my parents wish me to remain
here during the winter. It is now only the end of July! How many hours and days must pass before
the winter sets in! Will that time ever come?

Thursday, December 26th.

Finally, God be praised, the time has come for leaving school; a new existence is opening before
me; my journal will be overflowing, and I shall have no lack of matter, but plenty of charming
things to say.

The prince and princess are so kind to me; they have obtained permission from my parents for
me to pass the winter with them, and they will introduce me into society. I shall leave this
place day after to-morrow, and will reside with the Princess Lubomirska. I am quite sorry to
part from Madame Strumle and my companions, to many of whom I am sincerely attached, but my
joy is greater than my sorrow, for I shall see the world, and fly away from this narrow cage.

I shall be taken to court and presented to the king and the royal family; the Duke of Courland
is expected daily; I shall see him at last!

The days have become intolerably long since I knew I was to leave school.

WARSAW, Saturday, December 28th, 1759.

Never, never can I forget this day. The Princess Lubomirska came for me quite early. I bade
adieu to Madame Strumle and my companions. I was glad to go, and yet I wept when I parted from
them!

Before going to her own house, the princess took me to church; but I could scarcely force my
recollection; there was a whole future in my brain, a whole world in my thoughts.

I am now established with the princess; her palace is situated in the quarter named after Cracow,
nearly opposite to the residence of the Prince Palatine of Red-Russia, Czartoryski.

The palace in which we live is not very large, but very elegant; the windows upon one side
overlook the Vistula and a handsome garden. My chamber is delightful, and will be still more
agreeable in summer; it communicates on the right with the apartments of the princess, and
on the left with my waiting maid's room.

The tailor came yesterday to take my measure; he is to make me several dresses. I do not know
what they will be, as the princess has ordered them without consulting my taste. She inspires
me with so much respect, or perhaps awe, that I do not venture to ask her the least question.
I am much less afraid of the prince; his manners are so gentle and engaging. He has gone to
Bialystok, where he expects to meet the Duke of Courland; he is in high favor with the duke.

We are to make some visits to-morrow, when the princess will introduce me into some of the
most distinguished houses; one must thus make one's appearance, if one desires to be invited
to balls and parties. I am glad, and yet I am a little frightened at the idea of these visits:
I shall be so looked at, perhaps criticized; however, I shall see many new things and will
have much to observe, which thought affords me much consolation in my new and trying position.

Sunday, December 29th.

At least, now I have some news to tell, and my journal will no longer be so dry and uninteresting.
The prince royal, accompanied by the prince palatine, arrived yesterday about one o'clock.
Indeed I am quite confused by the palatine's overwhelming kindness; he received me as if I
had been his daughter, and there is no kind of friendship or interest which he has not testified
toward me.

We accomplished our visits and went to about fifteen different houses, but were not everywhere
admitted. At the French and Spanish ambassadors' and the prince primate's, etc., the princess
merely left cards.

Our first visit was to Madame Humiecka, wife of the swordbearer to the crown; this lady is
my aunt. We then went to see the Princess Lubomirska, wife of the general of the advance guard
of the royal armies; she is a full cousin to the princess palatine. She was born a Princess
Czartoryska, is very young and very beautiful; she holds the first rank among the younger ladies,
and loves passionately everything French. I am so glad I am a proficient in the French language;
besides being very useful, it will cause me to be much more sought after in society.

French is here spoken in nearly all the more distinguished houses; only the older men retain
the tiresome custom of mingling Latin in their conversation; the young people avoid this pedantry
and speak French, which is much better; at least, I can understand them, which I cannot the others.

We also went to see the wife of the Grand-General Branicki. Her husband is one of the most
wealthy lords of Poland, but is not very favorably regarded at court.

We then visited the Princess Czartoryska, Palatiness of Red-Russia. The conversation there
was held entirely in Polish; she is quite aged, and consequently no admirer of new fashions.
She introduced to us her only son, a very handsome young man, with polished and elegant manners;
he overwhelmed me with the most graceful compliments. This visit was more agreeable than any
of the others. But no--I think I was quite as much pleased at the palace of the Castellane
of Cracow, Poniatowska. She is a very superior person; she talks a great deal, it is true,
but then she speaks with enthusiasm and in a very interesting manner. We found her quite elated
with the pleasure of welcoming her son after a long absence. Many think that this much-loved
son may one day be king of Poland; I do not believe that will ever be, but I did not the less
examine him with great attention. I frankly confess that I was not pleased with him, and yet
he is handsome and amiable; but he has a kind of stiffness in his manners, a pretension to
dignity and to airs of grandeur, which injure his bearing.

I must not forget, in enumerating our visits, to mention that paid to the Palatiness of Podolia,
Rzewuska. This visit possessed a doubled interest for me; I was anxious to see Rzewuski, the
vice-grand-general of the crown, because I had heard my father speak of him so often.

The vice-grand-general, although belonging to an illustrious family, was brought up among the
children of the common people; he went barefooted as they did, and shared all their pleasures
(very rustic indeed, it seems to me). This strange education has given him great strength and
a wonderful constitution. He is now quite aged; he is more than fifty years old, and yet he
walks and rides like a young man. Following the old Polish custom, he permits his beard to
grow, and this gives him a very grave appearance.

They say he has composed some very fine tragedies. We also called upon Madame Brühl, who received
us most politely. Her husband, the king's favorite minister, is not much esteemed, but they
are visited for the sake of etiquette, and likewise for that of Madame Brühl, who is very amiable.

We saw too Madame Soltyk, Castellane of Sandomir; she is a widow, but still young and beautiful.
Her son is nine years old; he is a charming child, already possessing all the manners of the
best society. As we entered, he offered me a chair, and made me, at the same time, a very graceful
compliment; the castellane was kind enough to say that he was a great admirer of pretty faces
and black eyes. The Bishop of Cracow is this child's uncle; he was anxious to have the charge
of him, but his mother was not willing to part with him.

Of all the persons whom I saw, I was the most pleased with Madame Moszynska, the widow of the
grand-treasurer of the crown. She received me most affectionately, and I feel a strong attraction
toward her. She expressed much admiration for me; but indeed, I received commendation everywhere,
and everywhere did I hear that I was beautiful. Perhaps I owe a great part of these praises
to my costume; I was so well dressed! ... much better than at Barbara's wedding! I wore a white
silk dress with gauze flounces, and my hair was dressed with pearls.

If I had seen the Duke of Courland, I should have been perfectly satisfied; but I met him in
none of the houses to which I went. They say he is so happy to be once more with his family
that he devotes all his time to them. This feeling seems very natural to me, for when I was
at boarding school, I was very melancholy whenever I thought of my parents, and I felt an imperative
desire to see them, surpassing anything I had before experienced.

The carnival will soon begin; every one says it will be very brilliant, and that there will
be many balls; it is impossible that I should not somewhere meet the Duke of Courland.

Wednesday, January 1st, 1750.

All my desires have been gratified, and far beyond my hopes; I have seen the prince royal!
I have seen and spoken to him! ... I must indeed be dreaming; my mind is filled with the most
lively impressions, strange and wild fancies surge through my brain, and I feel at once exalted
and depressed, transported with joy and tremulous through fear. I would not dare to confide
to any one that which I am about to write; it is all perhaps only illusion, deception, error....
But yet, I have always hitherto judged correctly of the effect which I produced; I instinctively
divined the degree in which I pleased; I have never been deceived; can I be mistaken now? ...
And indeed, why should not a prince find me beautiful, when all other men tell me that I am
so? But there was more than admiration in the prince royal's eyes, which have a peculiarly
penetrating expression; his look was more kind than ordinary glances, and said more than any
words. Perhaps all princes may be thus!

But that I may remember during my whole life, or rather that I may one day read all this again,
I will now write down a detailed account of last evening and of the few hours immediately preceding.

Yesterday morning the Princess Lubomirska sent for me and said, 'To-day is the last of the
year, and there will be to-night a grand festival, a masked ball; all the nobility will be
there, and even the king and his sons; at least, I think so. I have selected a dress for you;
you will go as a virgin of the sun.'

I was so charmed with the choice of this costume, that I kissed the hand of the princess.

After dinner all the maids came to assist at my toilet, and most assuredly it was no ordinary
toilet. My hair was not powdered and I wore no hoop, whence the prince said to me, quite gravely,
'This costume is not at all in accordance with received notions and fashions; any other woman
would certainly be lost were she to wear it; but I am sure you will supply by the severity
of your deportment and the propriety of your manners whatever may be lacking in dignity, or
too light, in your dress.'

I did not forget his advice: notwithstanding my vivacity, I can assume upon occasion a very
majestic air; and indeed, I overheard some one saying at the ball, 'Who is that queen in disguise?'

Ah! I know that I was more beautiful than I usually am. My hair, without powder and black as
ebony, fell in curls over my forehead, my neck, and my shoulders; my dress was made of white
gauze, and had not that long train which hides the feet and impedes the motions. I wore a zone
of gold and precious stones round my waist, and was entirely enveloped in a transparent white
veil; I seemed to be in a cloud. When I looked in my mirror, I could scarcely recognize myself.

The ball room, brilliantly lighted, and glittering with gold and the most gorgeous costumes,
presented a dazzling spectacle; the women, nearly all robed in fancy dresses, were charming;
I did not know to which one I should give the preference.

A few moments after our arrival, we learned that the Duke of Courland was in the hall; my eyes
sought and found him, surrounded by a brilliant group of young men. His dress differed but
little from that of the lords of his court; but I could distinguish him among them all. His
figure is tall and dignified, his air noble and affable; his beautiful blue eyes and his charming
smile eclipse all that approach him; where he is, no one can see anything but himself.

I looked at him until our eyes met; then I avoided his gaze, but found it always fixed upon
me. But what was my confusion when I understood that he was asking the Prince Palatine Lubomirski
who I was! His face lighted up with joy when he heard the answer; be made no delay in approaching
the Princess Lubomirska, and saluted her with a grace peculiar to himself. After the exchange
of the preliminary compliments, the princess introduced me as her niece. I do not know what
kind of a courtesy I made, doubtless quite different from that which I had learned from my
dancing master; I was so agitated, and still am so much so, that I cannot remember the words
used by the prince as he saluted me; but the impression is not fugitive like the words.

What an evening! The prince opened the ball with the princess palatiness, and danced the second
polonaise--with me; he had then time to speak to me; and I, at first so timid, embarrassed,
and agitated, found myself replying to him with inconceivable assurance. He questioned me about
my parents, my sister the starostine, and all the details of her marriage. I was surprised
to find him so well acquainted with my family affairs; but then I remembered that Kochanowski,
son of the castellan, is his favorite. What a good, forgiving soul that Kochanowski must have;
not only has he digested the goose dressed with the black sauce, but he has said so many kind
things of us all!

The prince danced with me nearly the whole evening, and talked all the time ... The words would
seem insignificant and absurd, were I to write them down; but with him, tone, manner, expression,
all speak and say more than words, and yet his very words signify more, depict better, and
penetrate more deeply than those of others. I keep them in my memory, and fear to weaken their
impression should I write them.

When, at midnight, the cannon were fired to announce the end of one year and the beginning
of another, the prince said to me, 'Ah! never can I forget the hours I have just passed; this
is not a new year which I am beginning, but a new life which I am receiving.'

This is but one of the many things he said to me; but as he always spoke French, I should find
great difficulty, in my present agitated state of mind, in translating his conversation into
Polish.

All that I have read in Mademoiselle Scudery, or in Madame de Lafayette, is flat, compared
with what the prince himself said to me; but perhaps this may all be nothing more than simple
politeness. Ah! merciful Heaven, if it should be indeed an illusion, a mere court flattery,
applicable to all women, or, perhaps,--a series of empty compliments, due solely to my dress,
which became me wonderfully well! I am a prey to the most inconceivable perplexities, and dare
confide in no one; I should not venture to say to any one: 'Has he a real preference for me?'

My parents are far away, and the princess does not invite my confidence; I fear her as a cold,
severe, and uninterested judge.... The prince palatine is very kind, but can one expose to
a man all the weakness of a woman's heart? ... I am then abandoned to myself, without a standard
of judgment, without experience or advice.... Yesterday, I was at school, studying as a child,
and now I am thrown into a world entirely new, and in which I am playing a part envied by all
my sex.... I surely dream, or I have lost my reason.

In ten days Barbara will be here, and she must be my good angel; she will guide and protect
me: she is so wise, and has so much judgment! I will be so glad to lay my soul bare before
her; I have no fear of her, she is so compassionate; she is beautiful and happy, and I have
always remarked that such women are the best.

I have not seen my dear sister for nine months; but I see from her letters that she is every
day more and more loved by her husband, and satisfied with her destiny.

Shall I again see the prince royal? Will he recognize me in my ordinary dress, and will he
still think me beautiful?...

MAIDEN'S DREAMING.

  Fast the sunset light is fading,
    Nearer comes the lonely night,
  On a maid intently dreaming
    Dimly falls the evening light.

  Far into the future gazing,
    Heeds she not the waning light;
  By the fireside softly dreaming,
    Heeds she not the minutes' flight.

  Heeds she not the firelight flickering
    Bright upon her dark brown hair,
  Tresses where the gold still lingers--
    Loth to quit a home so fair.

  On her lap a book is lying,
    Clasped her hands upon her knee;
  Dreaming of the distant future--
    Wonders what her fate will be.

  Dreams of knights of manly bearing,
    Nodding plumes and shining casques,
  Wearing all her favorite colors,
    Quick to do whate'er she asks.

  Dreams of castles old and stately,
    Vaulted halls all life and light,
  Courtly nobles stepping through them,
    Smiling dames with jewels bright.

  Round her own brow, in her dreaming,
    She a coronet has bound;
  Round her waist, so lithe and slender,
    Venus' girdle she has wound.

  Charms the knights of manly bearing,
    Courtly nobles seek her grace,
  Maidens free from envious passions
    Love her kind and smiling face.

  Now her dreams are growing fainter,
    And her eyelids heavy grow;
  Dull the waning firelight flickers
    On her brow as white as snow.

  Lower droop the heavy eyelids--
    Weary eyes they cover quite--
  And the dreamy girl is sleeping
    Softly in the red firelight.

THIRTY DAYS WITH THE SEVENTY-FIRST REGIMENT.

The 71st Regiment N.Y.S.N.G. left New York to aid in repelling the invasion of Pennsylvania
on the 17th of June. On the 19th, having meantime determined to 'go to the wars,' Dick and
I presented ourselves at the armory, inquiring whether we could follow and join the regiment,
and were told briefly to report there at one o'clock on Monday next, and go on with a squad.

So at one o'clock on Monday we stood ready in the armory, duly clothed in blue and buttons;
but long after the appointed hour we waited without moving, I taking the chance to practise
in putting on my knapsack and accoutrements, whose various straps and buckles seemed at first
as intricate as a ship's rigging, and benefiting by the kindly hints of regular members who
sent substitutes this trip.

At length came the word, 'Fall in,' and the squad formed, about a hundred. A few minutes' drill
ensued, sufficing to show me that I needed considerably more, and then out--down Broadway to
Cortlandt street--aboard the ferry boat--into the cars, and about half past seven actually
off, amid the cheers and wavings of the bystanders, men, women, and children.

'Gone for a soger!' Should I ever come back? Perhaps I should wish myself home again soon enough.
However, that couldn't be now, so good-by everything and everybody, and into it head and heels.

I went, among other reasons, chiefly to see what it was like, and I will record my experience;--for
though, since the war began, tales and sketches of military life have been written and read
without number, and we have all become sufficiently learned in warlike matters to see how ignorant
of, and unprepared for war the nation was at the outbreak of the rebellion; yet, all I saw
and learned was new to me, and may prove interesting to some others.

Tuesday morning by daylight we were in Harrisburg, and marched from the cars to the Capitol
grounds through the just awaking town, escorted by one policeman armed with a musket. There
a wash at a hydrant refreshed me--then to breakfast in a temporary shed-like erection near
the depot.

An army breakfast! Huge lumps of bread and salt junk, and coffee. To this I knew it must come;
but just then, after spending the night in the cars, the most I could do was to swallow some
coffee, scorning however to join those who dispersed through the town for a civilized breakfast--wherein
I intended to be soldierly, though before long I learned that your old soldier is the very
man who goes upon the plan of snatching comfort whenever he can.

But the regiment was at Chambersburg; so for Chambersburg we took the cars, a distance, I believe,
of about fifty miles.

Chambersburg, however, we were not destined to reach. Along the route we met all sorts of rumors:
71st cut up; six men in the 8th killed; fighting still going on a little in front, &c., &c.;--a
prospect of immediate work. So in ignorance and doubt we came to Carlisle. Here we were greeted
by part of the 71st, and the truth proved to be that the 8th and 71st had retreated to this
place the night before. 'Not, not the six hundred,' however, for the left wing of our regiment
had somehow been left behind, and nothing was certainly known of it. At all events, we were
to go no farther, and out of the cars we came. Old members exchanged greetings, and recruits
made acquaintances.

But what were we going to do? I could not learn. We waited, having stacked arms, some sleeping
beneath the trees in the College grounds, until the lieutenant-colonel appeared upon the scene.
Then we marched, back and forth; toward the cars--'going back to Harrisburg;' past the cars--'no,
not to Harrisburg'--through the main street, and turned away from the town, still unconscious
of officers' intentions. We privates never know anything of plans or objects. We never know
where we are going till we get there, nor what we are to do till we do it, and then we don't
know what we are going to do next. I soon got used to this; and although conjectures and prophecies
fly through the ranks, of all kinds, from shrewd to ridiculous, I very early learned it was
sheer bother of one's brains attempting to discover anything, and ceased to ask questions or
form theories--getting up when I heard 'Company I, fall in,' without seeking to know whether
it was for march, drill, picket duty, or what not. Company officers seldom know more about
the matter than their men, and I speedily came to content myself with trying to extract from
past work and present position some general notion of the 'strategy' of our movements. Nor
is this ignorance wholly unblissful, as leaving always room for hope that the march is to be
short or the coming work pleasant. Well, in the present case, just out of the town we halted
in the Fair grounds; an ample field, a high tight face around it, a large shed in the centre.
We all stacked arms--most went to sleep. I always took sleep when I could, because, in a regiment
constantly on the move as ours was, if you don't want it now, you will before long.

By and by, in came the left wing, weary but safe, and were greeted with three tremendous cheers.
I hastened to find Company I. The first lieutenant had come on with us--the captain I had not
yet seen. To him I was now introduced.

Very soon the Fair ground was a camp; we on one side--the 8th N.Y., Colonel Varian, opposite.
Tents were up, fires blazing, and cooking and eating going on. As I had not started with the
regiment, I had no tent, and none could be had here, so my camping consisted of piling my traps
in a heap. But I needed none, and indeed, throughout the whole time was under one but twice.
Tents are all very well, when you are quietly encamped for any length, of time; but when, as
with us, you are on the more continually, I consider them a humbug and nuisance. You must carry
half a one all day, and at night join it with your comrade's half. The common shelter tent,
which is the only one that can be so carried, is a poor protection against heavy rain, for
the water can beat in at the sides and form pools beneath you; against midday sun you can guard
with a blanket and two muskets, and at any other time you need no shelter.

That night I went on guard. Two hours you watch, four for sleep, and then two hours you watch
again. All quiet, save that two or three prisoners are brought in from the front to be deposited
in limbo, and gazed at in the morning by recruits who have never seen a live rebel.

The most surprising thing I learned in these first days, was that everything one has will certainly
be stolen by his own regiment, even by his own company, if he does not watch it carefully.
This practice is styled 'winning.' It is simple, naked stealing, in no wise to be excused or
palliated, and utterly disgraceful. It imposes, moreover, the grievous nuisance of remaining
to guard your property when you would be loafing about, or of carrying everything--no light
load--with you, wherever you go. Of course, all colonels should prevent this, and one of any
force and energy could easily do so; but Colonel ---- is not of that kind. An excellent company
officer, as I judge, he has not the activity and nerve required in the commander of a regiment,
and many a wish did I hear expressed in those thirty days that his predecessor, Colonel Martin,
were still in command. Confidence in his bravery before the enemy, was universal; but many
things necessary to the decorum, discipline, health, &c., of the regiment devolve duties finally
upon the colonel, for whose discharge other qualities than bravery are needed.

The next afternoon, the 24th, our laziness is disturbed by orders to take three days' rations;
our knapsacks are to be sent to Harrisburg; we are to pack up everything, to be ready to move,
Nobody knows, of course, what it means; but a decided conviction prevails that 'something heavy
is up.' Presently a hollow square is 'up,' formed of the 8th and ourselves, field officers
in the centre. Colonel Varian advances. Unquestionably a speech. Perhaps a few Napoleonic words
on the eve of battle. No; Colonel Varian wishes to explain that it was nobody's fault that
our left wing was deserted at Chambersburg, in order to prevent ill feeling between the regiments.
He does so, and appeals to our lieutenant-colonel. Our lieutenant-colonel verifies and indorses.
Perfectly satisfactory; in evidence of which the two commands exchange cheers.

Henceforth we and the 8th are fast friends. We have other friends also--Captain Miller's battery,
of Pennsylvania, has been in front with us, and though out for 'the emergency,' declares it
will stay as long as the 71st. So we all fraternize, hailing any member as '8th,' '71st,' or
'Battery,' and cheer when we pass each other. The 8th are good cheerers, and though we outnumbered
them, I think they outdid us in three times three and a 'tiger,' the inevitable refrain. The
'tiger' (sounding tig-a-h-h) is the test of a cheer. If the cheer be a spontaneous burst of
hearty good feeling, the tiger concentrates its energy, and is full and prolonged--if it be
only the cheer courteous or the cheer civil, the tiger will fall off and die prematurely.

Just at dark we left camp, passed rapidly through the town, along the turnpike about two miles,
and halted in a cornfield beside the road, where we formed line of battle. We received orders
to 'load at will,' and fire low. The 8th were on the opposite side of the road, and their battery
somewhere near us. After some time, nobody appearing, permission was given to thrust our muskets
by the bayonets in the ground; and soon after, one by one, the men dropped off asleep. The
evening had been extremely sensational. The sudden departure, the rapid march, whither and
for what we knew not, yet full of momentary expectation; the orders and preparations indicating
the imminence of grim, perhaps ghastly work, in the night hours; the line of men, stretching
beyond sight in the darkness, far from home, and, it might be, near to death, sleeping yet
waiting:--the total was singularly impressive.

Nevertheless, I too was soon asleep, and slept undisturbed till morning. Then, rebels or no
rebels, we must have breakfast. There was none to be had in the regiment; but the farmhouses
supplied us, and an ancient dame intermitted packing her goods for flight, to cook the pork
which made part of my three days' rations. Then I stretched myself beneath the shade of a roadside
house within sound of orders, and having nothing else on hand, went to sleep again.

I was now broken in. Camp rations I could eat; camp coffee, though always sans milk and often
sans sugar, I deemed good; a wash was a luxury, not a necessity; and I could sleep anywhere.

When I was aroused, I found a barricade thrown up across the road, and a force of contrabands
digging a trench across the field. A cavalry picket reported the enemy within half a mile,
advancing. The citizens came out from Carlisle to aid us, and we went in line into the trenches.
Two men were detailed from each company to carry off the wounded; the red hospital flag fluttered
upon a house behind us, and the colonel, passing in front, told us they were very near, and
exhorted us not to let them pass. But the day wore on to evening, and no rebels appeared, and
at dark we moved again. Starting in a heavy rain, we marched nine miles to the borders of a
town known as New Kingston. Here we halted while quarters were hunted up. Every man, tired
with the rapid walking through rain and mud, squatted at once in the road, no matter where,
and then along the whole column singing began. A soldier will sing under all circumstances,
comfortable or uncomfortable.

At length we moved into the town and took possession of a church, distributing ourselves in
aisles, pews, and pulpit. What little remained of the night, we were glad to have in quiet.
It had been questionable whether we could reach Kingston, for on the march it was rumored that
we were flanked; and a man, emerging from the shade as we passed, had asked a question of the
chaplain, and, receiving no answer, had retreated a few yards, and fired his piece in the air,
which looked very like a signal. The next morning, the 26th, we went into camp in woods just
in front of the town, while the general and the surgeon established headquarters in the town.

Here we repeated substantially the programme of the day before, except that continuous rain
was substituted for the baking sun, and proved far more endurable.

On the afternoon of the 27th we marched some seven or eight miles, and encamped at night in
Oyster Point, about two miles from Harrisburg.

Sunday! the 28th of June. My first Sunday with the regiment. No rumors of the enemy reach us,
and to us privates the prospect is of a quiet day. The boys gather round the chaplain for divine
service. And as for a few minutes we renew our connection with civilization, and, amid stacked
arms, tents, camp fires, and the paraphernalia of war, sing psalms and hymns, and listen to
the chaplain's prayer, I decide that this surpasses all luxury possible in camp. I shall never
forget that 'church.'

But no Sunday in camp. Hardly were the services concluded, when we went forward a little to
an orchard, and then line of battle again. This performance of 'laying for a fight' which never
came, had by this time grown tame, in fact intolerably stupid, and I for one was growing tired
of sitting in silence, when boom! crash! a cannon shot in front of us, the smoke visible too,
curling above the woods, and showing how near it had been fired. A smothered 'Ah!' and 'Now
you've got it, boys,' went through the ranks. It was no humbug this time. The rebels were shelling
the woods as they advanced.

But it appeared we were not to receive them at that spot, for suddenly we were ordered off
again, and marched across lots, to the destruction of many a bushel of wheat, clear into the
intrenchments in front of Harrisburg. There for the remainder of the day we waited in line.
Other regiments, we knew not what, were near us in different positions. The signal flags were
waving, and officers galloping by constantly, of whom the quartermaster was hailed with shouts
of 'Grub, grub.'

That night my company and two others went out on picket, taking position near our camp of the
day before. In the morning we advanced a little to a lane--a cobbler's stall was converted
into headquarters, and the half of the company not on duty went foraging for dinner. Pigs and
chickens were captured, and cooking began in the kitchen of a deserted house close by. Apple
butter, too, the prevalent institution in Pennsylvania, was found in plenty. So the two halves
of the company relieved each other in standing guard and picnicking. Meantime, however, the
rebels, from the woods just in front, were paying their respects with two-inch shell, which
shrieked and crashed through the branches, bursting over us, around us, and many of them altogether
too near to be pleasant. Moreover, by one of those blunders which cannot always be avoided,
some of our own men, mistaking us, opened fire on our rear; but to this a stop was speedily
put by a flag of truce, improvised from a ramrod and a white handkerchief. We were allowed
to fire only three or four volleys in return. This skirmishing tries courage, I believe, more
than a pitched battle. To lie on the ground for hours, two or three miles in front of your
main body, ten feet from the nearest man, and be fired at without firing yourself or making
any noise, is a different thing from standing in your place amid the throng and all the noise,
excitement, and enthusiasm of a battle, earnestly occupied in firing as fast as you can. In
a battle all the circumstances combine to produce high excitement and drive fear out of a man,
leaving room only for that kind of courage properly called fearlessness or intrepidity, belonging
to men like Governor Pickens, 'born insensible to fear.' But the highest grade of courage is
that which, despite of fear, stands firm. That is the courage of principle, of morale, as opposed
to purely physical courage. It is the last degree--at the next step we rise into heroism.

In the afternoon we were relieved by a Pennsylvania company, and as we retired in full sight
of the rebels, the rascals yelled at us, and gave us several volleys, from which it is wonderful
that every man escaped.

That evening we moved to the extreme rear, into Fort Washington, on the bank of the river in
front of Harrisburg. Here it was said our advance work was over, and we were promised comfortable
quarters and rest.

Any one nowadays can see a camp, but only one who has seen it can understand how picturesque
it is. The night scene at Harrisburg was beautiful in the extreme. Behind us slept the city--we
guarded it in front, and the river rolled between. The moonlight, illuminating a most exquisite
scenery, between the foliage gave glimpses of that placid stream, and shone upon the tents
and bayonets of some six thousand men within the formidable works; the expiring fires sent
up wreaths of smoke; grim guns looked over the ramparts down the gentle slope in front and
up the beautiful Cumberland Valley; and only the occasional call of the sentry for the corporal
of the guard broke the serene stillness.

Here were our friends of the 8th, and here we regained our knapsacks. Many of them had been
'gone through,' and everything 'won.' The 56th and 22d New York, the 23d and 18th Brooklyn,
besides others, were encamped inside.

Here we were sworn into the United States service for thirty days from the 17th June.

On Wednesday, July 1st, all our prospect of camp life, with its regularity of drill, inspection,
and, above all, of rations, was dashed by orders to move in the morning to Carlisle. General
Knipe, riding through camp, was asked where he was going to take us. 'Right into the face of
the enemy,' said he. 'Hi, hi!' shouted the men.

So away we went again. I was detailed to guard baggage, and remained, loading wagons, &c.,
subject to the quartermaster, and went on in the cars to Carlisle, where, on the evening of
the 3d, I joined the regiment when it came in.

Since we left Carlisle the rebels had been there and burned the barracks. They had shelled
the town the night before, and the 37th had had a sharp skirmish with them.

On the morning of the 4th July we started about ten thousand strong--a movement in force. The
battle of Gettysburg had been fought, the danger to Harrisburg was past, and, without knowing
exactly where we were bound, it was plain that we were to cooperate with Meade. That day we
made a long march. Our knapsacks were left behind. The first six miles were well enough. We
move on slowly, the sun overclouded, the road good, and marching, as always is allowed on a
long march (save when we pass through a town), without order or file. The men talk, laugh,
and sing, get water and tobacco from the roadside dwellers, and chaff them with all sorts of
absurd questions. The first six miles are pleasant. At the foot of the South Mountains we rest.
This is Papertown. Papertown, as far as visible, consists of one house. From the piazza of
said house, an 8th makes a speech: I am not near enough to hear, but suppose it funny, for
colonels and all laugh. Some go to eating, some to sleep, some take the chance, as is wise,
to wash their feet at the stream below, the best preventive of blisters.

In an hour it begins to rain, and we start to go through the Gap, along which we meet squads
of prisoners and deserters from Lee's army. Eleven miles through that rain. I have never seen
such rain before; it is credited to the cannonading which for days past has been going on all
around. Trudge, trudge; in fifteen minutes soaked through, in half an hour walking in six inches
of water, in two hours walking in six inches of mud. Then throw away blankets and overcoats--men
fall behind done up--men can go no farther for sore feet.

At Pine Grove, that night, Company I, out of seventy men, musters thirty at roll call. The
different regiments scatter over half a mile of ground. Every fence about is converted into
fuel. The cattle and hogs in the fields are levied upon--shot, dressed, cooked, and eaten.
There is nothing else to be had, and the wagons cannot follow us for some time over such roads.
So officers shut their eyes. It rains still, but we can be no wetter than we are, so we lie
down and take it. This is our glorious Fourth!

In the morning--Sunday morning again--there is nothing to eat. In the town, which comprises
half a dozen houses and an old foundery, the answer is, 'The rebels has eat us all out.' A
few secure loaves of bread, paying as high as a dollar; another few boil what coffee they had
carried with them and contrived to save from the rain. The rest have nothing. Henceforth the
order of the day is march and starve, and the story is only of ceaseless fatigue, hunger, and
rain. Thus far we have stood stiff and taken it cheerfully. There was growling before we got
through.

Off again over the mountains.

If I have enough to eat, I can stand anything--if not, I break down. In two miles I 'caved
in.' The captain thought the regiment would return shortly. So I staid behind. On Monday afternoon,
however, they had not come back, and I started after them. I got a meal and passed the night
in a house on the mountain, and, after some sixteen miles' walking, caught them on the broad
turnpike the next day, and marched some seven miles farther, to Funkstown, Pennsylvania.

Here an episode. As we started the next morning (in the rain, of course), I was sent to the
rear to report to a sergeant. The sergeant, with nine besides me, reported to the brigade quartermaster.
The quartermaster distributed the ten, with an equal number of the 23d, through ten army wagons,
to drive and guard. We went through Chambersburg to Shippensburg, where we loaded with provisions.
Here I heard abundance of the doings of the rebels, who loaded seven hundred wagons at this
place. I bought Confederate money and got meals at a hotel--at my own expense.

On Friday evening, the 10th, we rejoined the column at Waynesboro', a welcome arrival, for
grub was terribly scarce. Here was the Sixth Corps, Army of the Potomac, under General Neal--'Bucky
Neal,' a 'Potomaker' called him. For a time we belonged to it, and adorned our caps with the
badge of the corps, cut out of cracker.

On Saturday evening we crossed the line into Maryland, fording the Antietam creek, the bridge
over which the rebs had burned; and Sunday we footed it back and forth over roads and across
lots, bringing up at Cavetown.

'Earthquakes, as usual,' wrote Lady Sale, in her 'Diary.' 'Rain, as usual,' wrote we. And such
rain! They do a heavy business in rain in that region, and in thunder and lightning, too. I
have heard Western thunder storms described, but I doubt if they surpass such as are common
beneath these mountains. Four poor fellows of the 56th, who were sitting beneath a tree, were
struck by lightning--one of them killed.

On Monday we camped at Boonsboro', and on Tuesday beside a part of Meade's army. When I saw
all the wagons here, and what an immense job it is to move any considerable force, with all
the delays that may come from broken wheels, lame horses, and bad roads, I could not but smile
at the military critics at home, who show you how general this should have made a rapid movement
so; or general that hurled a force upon that point, &c.

Here, near Boonsboro', on Tuesday night, the 14th, news of the riot in New York reached us.
The near approach of the expiration of our time had already made much talk of home, and now
anxiety was doubled. Rumors flew through camp, and all ears and mouths were open, and before
we settled for the night it came. Orderlies carried directions through the ranks to have all
ready and clean up pieces to go home.

In the morning our Battery friends came up to say good-by. Seventy-first buttons were exchanged
for their crossed-cannon badges, songs sung and cheers given ad lib.

Soon we all started, bound, we knew, for the cars at Frederick City. The last march! It was
very warm, and the road across the mountains often steep, but there was little straggling.

Most incidents of soldier life grow tame, but to the last the spectacle of the column on march
retained its impressiveness for me.

We passed through Frederick just at dusk--ejaculating tenderly 'Ah! ah!' as fair damsels waved
handkerchiefs at us--and went out to the junction. The cars were ready. We had done the last
march. Twenty-five miles that day! And I had gone through this month of walking without foot
trouble, for which I am indebted to my 'pontoons,' i.e., Government shoes. Take them large
enough, and they are the only things to walk in.

Marching is the hardest thing I met with. I have always been a regular and good walker. But
ordinary walking is no preparation for marching. The weight of musket and accoutrements, the
dust (rain and mud in our case), the inability to see before you, and the necessity of keeping
up in place, are all wearing and nervously exhausting.

We did not get off at once. Red tape delayed us, and we growled savagely. But we had plenty
to eat, and a river beside us. So, bathing and eating, we passed Thursday in sight of the train.
At length red tape was untied, and Thursday night the 8th and 71st set off, in cattle cars.
This time the advance was a privilege. In Baltimore we were beset by women trying to sell cakes,
and boys trying to beg cartridges. Along the road we ate, smoked, and slept. In Philadelphia
we had 'supper' in the 'United States Volunteers' Refreshment Saloon.' I remember a bright
girl there, who got me a second cup of coffee.

And so, Saturday morning, the 18th, we took the boat at Amboy, within two hours of home! But
there was less hilarity than usual on the return of a regiment. Our news from the city was
not the latest, and our grimmest work might be to come--and in New York! Woe to any show of
a mob we had met! The indignation was deep and intense.

But in two minutes after we landed on the Battery, papers were circulated through the ranks,
and we knew all was quiet.

So up Broadway. We were too early in the street to gather much of a crowd. Those who were out
hailed us heartily, and at the corner of Grand street or thereabouts an ardent individual from
a fourth-story window, plying two boards cymbal-wise (clap-boards, say), initiated a respectable
noise. And so round the corner and into the armory at Centre Market. The campaign was over,
and a few days after we were paid off and mustered out.

As I said, I went to see what it was like, and I saw. It is a strange life, but a wholesome
one, if you get a tolerable sufficiency to eat, and not too heavy a dose of marching. So severe
a time as we had is terribly physical, and benumbs the brain somewhat. The campaign was short,
but the utmost was crowded into those thirty days.

The first portion was advance work, always arduous. General Knipe's work was to check the rebel
advance. He did so by going to the front and meeting them, and then retreating slowly before
them, making a stand and demonstration of fight, at which their advance would fall back on
the main body, at whose approach he would up stakes, run a few miles, and make another show.
Thus he gained ten days' time, which enabled General Couch, in command of the department, to
fortify, and collect and organize troops, and probably saved Harrisburg. And for the manner
in which he did it, without, too, the loss of a man, he deserves credit.

On the whole, did I like it? Well, I am glad I have been. But the exact answer to that question
is a sentence of Winthrop's, in his paper 'Washington as a Camp': 'It is monotonous, it is
not monotonous, it is laborious, it is lazy, it is a bore, it is a lark, it is half war, half
peace, and totally attractive, and not to be dispensed with from one's experience in the nineteenth
century.'

REASON, RHYME, AND RHYTHM.

CHAPTER VI.--TRUTH AND LOVE.

The Divine Attributes, the base of all true Art.

Art must be based upon a study of Nature, upon a clear and comprehensive knowledge of natural laws.

Nature may be regarded either as the home of man, and consequently associated with all the
phases of his existence; or as an assemblage of symbols, manifesting the thoughts of the Creator.
In accordance with the first view, the poet may give it its place in the different scenes of
human life, animated with our passions, sympathizing with us, and expressing our feelings;
in the second, he must try to interpret this divine language, to seize the idea gleaming through
the veil of the material envelope, for there is an established harmony between material nature
and intellectual. Every thought has its reflection in a visible object which repeats it like
an echo, reflects it like a mirror, rendering it sensible first to the senses by the visible
image, then to the thought by the thought.

Genius is the instinct of discovering some more of the words in this divine language of universal
analogies, the key of which God alone possesses, but some portions of whose stores he sometimes
deigns to unclose for man. Therefore in earlier times the Prophet, an inspired poet; and the
poet, an uninspired prophet--were both considered holy. They are now looked upon as insane
or useless; and indeed, this is but a logical consequence of the so-called utilitarian views.
If only the material and palpable part of nature which may be calculated, percented, turned
into gold, or made to minister to sensual pleasures, is to be regarded with interest; if the
lessons of the harvest, with its 'good seed and tares,' and the angels, its reapers; the teachings
of the sparrow and the Divine Love which watched over them; the grass and the lilies of the
field clothed in splendor by their Creator, are to awaken neither hope nor fear--then men are
right in despising those who preserve a deep reverence for moral beauty; the idea of God in
his creation; and respect the language of images, the mysterious relations between the visible
and invisible worlds. Is it asked what does this language prove? The answer is, God and Immortality!
Alas! they are worth nothing on 'Change!

Yet let him who would study his own happiness and well-being, follow the advice given in the
Good Book:

     'Look upon the rainbow, and bless Him that made it, for it is very
     beautiful.

     'It encompasseth the heavens about with the circle of its glory;
     the hands of the Most High have displayed it.'

As creation is symbolic, and the province of the poet is humbly to imitate the works of the
Great Artist, we must expect to find him also make use of symbolic language, imagery.

Metaphor (metapherô) is the application of a physical fact to the moral order; the association
of an external material fact to one internal and intellectual. As this association is not reflective,
but spontaneous, and is found pervading the infancy of languages; as it is intuitively and
generally understood; it must take place in accordance with a mental law which establishes
natural relations of analogy between the moral world and the physical. To become perceptible,
thought must be imaged, reflected upon a sensuous form; the definition by an image is generally
the most clear and complete. We may have clear enough ideas of some invisible truth in our
own minds, but if we would convey our conception to another, we cannot give it to him by a
pure idea, for then we would still be in the internal world of intellect; we must go out from
this internal world, we must seek a sign in the physical world that he can see and contemplate;
we select some phenomenon which can be easily observed, and in accordance with the law of analogy
of which we have just spoken, we associate our thought with it, and in this manner we can clearly
communicate the thought we have conceived.

Almost all the ideas we have of the moral world are expressed through metaphors: thus we say
the movements or emotions of the soul; the clearness or coloring of a style; the heat or warmth
of a discourse; the hardness or softness of the heart, &c., &c. Language expresses the invisible
thought of the soul; in accordance with the etymology of the word (exprimere) it presses them
from the soul, from the realm of internal thought, to transport them to the visible sphere.
But the etymology itself is nothing but a metaphor, for the immaterial facts of the soul always
remain in their own region inaccessible to the senses, and the instinctive facts of the organism
always remain in the visible world, so that there can be no actual passage from one to the
other, for an immaterial fact cannot be changed into a material one:--association, simultaneousness,
correlation may obtain between them, but nothing more.

Saint Thomas Aquinas asserts 'that in our present state of degradation the intellect comprehends
nothing without an image.' Language is in reality the association of material facts to facts
of the will, heart, and intellect. Apparently insufficient to give a full idea of material
things alone, it would seem almost impossible that it should ever be able to express the facts
of the invisible world; but the human spirit, in accordance with the mental law impressed upon
it by the Hand Divine, seizes the analogies of the moral phenomena with the phenomena of nature,
and, seeing physical facts used as symbols by the Creator to convey ethical, also instinctively
uses them to express the facts of the moral world; and thus is born the human Word which, invisibly
ploughing the waves of the unseen air, can convey the most subtile thought, the most evanescent
shade of feeling, the wildest, darkest, and deepest emotion. Language is man's expression of
the finite, with its infinite meanings modified by the extent of his intelligence and his power
of expression. It is truly a universal possession, but every man gifts it with his own individualities,
his own idiosyncrasies. The style, one might almost say, is the man.

Thus the imagery of language finds its base in the very essence of our being. The poet is one
gifted to seize upon these hidden analogies, to read these mystic symbols, and, through the
force of his own imagination, to reveal them to his brethren in truth and love.

The imagination has two distinct functions. It combines, and by combination creates new forms;
it penetrates, analyzes, and realizes truths discoverable by no other faculty.

An imagination of high power of combination seizes and associates at the same moment all the
important ideas of its work or poem, so that while it is working with any one of them, it is
at the same instant working with and modifying them all in their several relations to it. It
never once loses sight of their bearings upon each other--as the volition moves through every
part of the body of a snake at the same moment, uncoiling some of its involute rings at the
very instant it is coiling others. This faculty is indeed something that looks as if its possessor
were made in the Divine image!

By the power of the combining imagination various ideas are chosen from an infinite mass, ideas
which are separately imperfect, but which shall together be perfect, and of whose unity therefore
the idea must be formed at the very moment they are seized, as it is only in that unity that
their appropriateness consists, and therefore only the conception of that unity can prompt
the preference. Therefore he alone can conceive and compose who sees the whole at once before him.

Shakspeare is the great example of this marvellous power. Not only is every word which falls
from the lips of his various characters true to his first conception of them, so true that
we always know how they will act under any given circumstances, and we could substitute no
other words than the words used by them without contradicting our first impression of them;
but every character with which they come in contact is not only ever true to itself, but is
precisely of the nature best fitted to develop the traits, vices, or virtues of the main figure.
So perfect and complete is this lifelike unity, that we can scarcely think of one of his leading
characters without recalling all those with whom it is associated. If we name Juliet, for instance,
not only is her idea inseparable from that of Romeo, but the whole train of Montagues and Capulets,
Mercutio, Tybalt, the garrulous nurse, the lean apothecary, the lonely friar, sweep by. The
men and women of Shakspeare live and love, and we cannot think of them without at the same
time thinking of those with whom they lived and whom they loved. Indeed, when we can wrest
any character in a drama from those which surround it, and study it apart, the unity of the
whole is but apparent, never vital. Simplicity, harmony, life, power, truth, and love, are
all to be found in any high work of the associative imagination.

We now proceed to characterize the penetrative imagination, 'which analyzes and realizes truths
discoverable by no other faculty.' Of this faculty Shakspeare is also master. Hence there is
in every word set down by the Imagination an awful undercurrent of meaning--an evidence and
shadow upon it of the deep places out of which it has come.

In this it utterly differs from the Fancy, with which it is often confounded. The Imagination
sees the heart and inner nature, and makes them felt; but in the clear seeing of things beneath,
is often impatient of detailed interpretation, being sometimes obscure, mysterious, and abrupt.
Fancy, as she stays at the externals, never feels. The power of an imagination may almost be
tested by its accompanying degree of tenderness; thus there is no tenderness like Dante's,
nor any seriousness like his--such seriousness that he is quite incapable of perceiving that
which is commonplace or ridiculous. From these simple points she can strike out analogies and
catch resemblances, which are true so far as the point from which she looks is concerned, but
would be false, could she see through to the other side. This, however, she does not care to
do--the point of contact is enough for, her; and even if there be a great gap between two things,
she will spring from one to the other like an electric spark, and glitter the most brightly
in her leaping. Fancy loves to follow long chains of circumstance from link to link; but the
Imagination grasps a link in the middle that implies all the rest, and settles there.

  'Bring the rathe primrose that forsaken dies,
                                  [Imagination.

  The tufted crowtoe and pale jessamine,
                                     [Nugatory.

                                      MILTON.

In these examples the reader will not fail to remark that the Imagination seems to gain much
of its power from its love for and sympathy with the objects described. Not only are the objects
with which it presents us truthfully rendered, but always lovingly treated.

With the Greeks, the Graces were also the Charities or Loves. It is the love for living things
and the sympathy felt in them that induce the poet to give life and feeling to the plant, as
Shelley to the 'Sensitive Plant;' as Shakspeare, when he speaks to us through the sweet voices
of Ophelia and Perdita; as Wordsworth, in his poems to the Daisy, Daffodil, and Celandine;
as Burns in his Mountain Daisy. As a proof of the power of the Imagination, through its Truth,
and Love, to invest the lowest of God's creatures with interest, we offer the reader one of
these simple songs of the heart.

TO A MOUSE.

On turning her up in her nest with the plough, November, 1785.

Poor Burns! Seventy years and more have passed since that cold November morning on which he
sang this simple and tender song, yet it is as fresh in its rustic pathos, bathed in the quickening
dews of the poet's heart, as if it had sprung from the soul but an hour since: and fresh it
will still be long after the fragile hand now tracing this tribute to the heart of love from
which it flowed shall have been cold in an unknown grave!

Such poems are worth folios of the erudite and stilted pages which are now so rapidly pouring
their scoria around us. Men seem ashamed now to be simply natural. Either they have ceased
to love, or to believe in the dignity of loving. While this spirit lasts, there can be no hope
of the achievement of high things, for men will not open the secrets of their hearts to us,
if we intend to desecrate the holy, or to broil themselves upon a fire of thorns.

As the poet is full of love for all that God has made, because his imagination enables him
to seize it by the heart, he would in this love fain gift the inanimate things of creation
with life, that he might find in them that happiness which pertains to the living; hence the
constant personification of all that is in his pages. For the Imagination, unperverted, is
essentially loving, and abhors all utility based on the pain or destruction of any creature.
It takes delight in such ministering of objects to each other as is consistent with the essence
and energy of both, as in the clothing of the rock by the herbage, and the feeding of the herbage
by the stream.

As to its love, that is not only seen in its wish and struggle to quicken all with the warm
throb of happy life, but is also clearly manifested in the lingering over its creations with
clinging fondness, 'hating nothing that it maketh,' pruning, elaborating, and laboring to gift
with beauty the works of its patient hands, finishing every line in love, that it too may feel
its creations to be 'good.' For Love not only gives wings, but also vital heat and life, to Genius.

Thus we again arrive at the fact that the two Divine attributes of Truth and Love, in their
finite form indeed, but still 'images,' are absolutely necessary for the creation of any true
work of Art. No work can be great without their manifestation; unless they have brooded with
their silvery wings over its progress to perfection; and in exact proportion to their manifestation
will be its greatness. On these two attributes in God repose in holy trust the universes He
hath made; and that which typifies or suggests His faithfulness and love to the soul created
to enjoy Him, must be a source, not only of Beauty, but of Delight. We hope we have turned
his attention to the fact that every Letter in this sacred Language is full of meaning; enough
to induce him to investigate the glorious mysteries of the 'Open Secret.'

Whatever may be the decisions of the men of the senses, or the men of the schools, let him
fearlessly condemn any work in which he cannot find wrought into its very heart suggestions
or manifestations of the Divine attributes, or an earnest effort on the part of its author,
naive and unconscious as it may be, to imitate the Spirit of the Great Artist.

We have placed the Rosetta stone of Art, with its threefold inscriptions in Sculpture, Painting
and Music, with their union or resumé in Poetry, before him; we have given him the key to some
of its wondrous hieroglyphics; let him study the remaining letters of this mystical alphabet
for himself! These inscriptions are indeed trilingual, phonetic, and sacred, yet the simple
and loving soul may decipher them without the genius of Champollion; their meaning is written
within it. It will readily learn to connect the sign with the thing signified, and under the
fleeting forms of rhythmed time and measured space, learn to detect the immutable principles
which are to be its glory and joy for eternity!

CURRENCY AND THE NATIONAL FINANCES.

1. History of the Bank of England, its Times and Traditions, from 1694 to 1844. By JOHN FRANCIS.
First American Edition. With Notes, Additions, and an Appendix, including Statistics of the
Bank to the close of the year 1861. By J. SMITH HOMANS, Author of the 'Cyclopædia of Commerce
and Commercial Navigation.' New York. 8vo, pp.476.

2. Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means,
in relation to the Issue of an Additional Amount of United States Treasury Notes.

3. Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the State of the Finances of the United States
for the Year ending June 30, 1862.

4. By ERASTES B. BIGELOW. Boston: Little, Brown & Co. 4to, pp. 103 and 242.

5. The Bankers' Magazine and Statistical Register. New York, monthly, 1861-2. Edited by J.
SMITH HOMANS, jr.

The Bank of England was created during the urgent necessities of national finance. It was a
concession of a valuable privilege to a few rich men, in consideration of their loaning the
capital to the treasury. 'The estimates of Government expenditure in the year 1694 were enormous,'
says Macaulay, in his fourth volume. King William asked to have the army increased to ninety-four
thousand, at an annual expense of about two and a half millions sterling--a small sum compared
with what it costs in the year 1862 to maintain an army of equal numbers.

At the period of the charter of the bank, the minds of men were on the rack to conceive new
sources of revenue with which to meet the increased expenditures of the nation. The land tax
was renewed at four shillings in the pound, and yielded a revenue of two millions. A poll tax
was established. Stamp duties, which had prevailed in the time of Charles II had been allowed
to expire, but were now revived, and have ever since been among the most prolific sources of
income, yielding to the British Government in the year 1862 no less than £8,400,000 sterling.
Hackney coaches were taxed, notwithstanding the outcries of the coachmen and the resistance
of their wives, who assembled around Westminster Hall and mobbed the members. A new duty on
salt was imposed, and finally resort was had to the lottery, whereby one million sterling was
raised. All these resources were not sufficient for the growing wants of the Government, and
the plan of the Bank of England was devised to furnish immediate relief to the finances. In
1691, when England was at war with France, the national debt unfunded was £3,130,000, at an
annual interest of £232,000. In 1697, at the Peace of Ryswick, this debt had swollen to £14,522,000.
At the Peace of Utrecht, in 1713, it had reached £34,000,000. The war with Spain in 1718 brought
it up to forty millions sterling. And here it might have rested, had the advice of Shakspeare
been followed:

  'Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace.'

But England went to war with Spain 'on the right of search.' From 1691 to this time the debt
had increased on an average about a million sterling per year. As early as 1745 the credit
of the bank was so identified with that of the state, that during the invasion of the Pretender,
whose forces were at Derby, only one hundred and twenty miles from London, the creditors of
the bank flocked in crowds to its counter to obtain specie for its notes. The merchants intervened
and signed an agreement to make the bank's notes receivable in all business transactions.

The war of the Austrian succession followed in 1742, and at the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, in
1748, 'forever to be maintained,' the English were saddled with a debt of £75,000,000.

  'Peace hath her victories,
  No less renowned than war.'

It was early in the last century that the abuse of paper money gave a lasting and unfavorable
impression against such issues. The scheme of John Law and the South Sea Bubble about the same
time broke and scattered their fragments over both England and France. It was in the latter
scheme or folly that Pope lost a large portion of his earnings, from which we may infer that
his temper was not improved.

England's enormous debt, which should have warned the Georges against further war, was not
contracted without severe sacrifices. The legal rate of interest at the opening of the funding
system was six per cent. In 1714 it was reduced to five per cent. Loans during the early wars
of the eighteenth century were raised on annuities for lives on very high terms, fourteen per
cent. being granted for single lives, twelve per cent. for two lives, and ten per cent. for
three lives. But so far was England from being awake to the enormous debt she was creating
by her expensive wars, that the seventy-five millions existing in 1748 became £132,000,000
at the close of the Seven Years' War in 1763. This volume was enlarged at the end of the American
Revolution to £231,000,000. During all this time the bank was the lever with which these enormous
sums were raised; but the end was not yet.

The French war with Napoleon became more exhaustive, and within twenty years from the peace
with America to the Peace of Amiens, in 1802, the debt went up from £231,000,000 to £537,000,000
sterling. From this period to 1815 the debt accumulated annually, until it reached its maximum,
or eight hundred and sixty-one millions sterling.

During these severe changes, reverses, extravagance, and extraordinary governmental expenditure,
the bank was considered the prop of national finance. The French Revolution and its consequent
war with England led to many heavy outlays by the British Government. In 1795 the bank desired
the chancellor of the exchequer to make his arrangements for the year without 'any further
assistance' from the bank. This was again urged in 1796, and the bank appealed again to Mr. Pitt.

     'The only reply from Mr. Pitt was a request for a further
     accommodation, on the credit of the consolidated fund, which the
     court refused to sanction, until they had received satisfaction on
     the topic of the treasury bills, and requested Mr. Pitt to enter
     into a full explanation on this subject, which was not even touched
     upon in his letter. This resolution being communicated, Mr. Pitt
     wrote to the governor and deputy-governor on the 12th August, that
     'they might depend upon measures being immediately taken for the
     payment of one million, and a further payment, to the amount of one
     million, being made in September, October, and November, in such
     proportions as might be found convenient. But, as fresh bills might
     arrive, he was under the necessity of requesting a latitude to an
     amount not exceeding one million.' About the same period the court
     'desired the governor and deputy-governor would express their
     earnest desire that some other means might be adopted for the
     future payment of bills of exchange drawn on the treasury.' (Vide
     'History Bank of England,' pp. 114, 115.)

The circumstances of the nation and of the bank were known to the capitalists and to the people.
Hence various causes of uneasiness and distress. The bank loaned the public treasury seven
and a half millions in the years 1794, 1795, 1796, and the more they loaned to the exchequer,
the less they could loan to the people. Thus followed a diminution of gold in the bank, and
hoarding by the people. Gold was exported more freely to the Continent, and reduced accommodation
was given to the merchants. Finally, on the 26th February, 1797, the king's council passed
an order for the suspension of cash payments.

The bank was on the eve of suspension in the year 1847. On the 25th of October the cabinet
authorized a violation of the charter, thereby acknowledging the inability of the bank to maintain
specie payments. This order of Lord John Russell inspired fresh confidence, and the bank immediately
recovered strength, and reduced the rate of interest from 8 per cent. in October to 7 per cent.
in November, to 6 and 5 per cent. in December, to 4 per cent. in January, and to 3-1/2 in June
following. The distress and revulsion of 1847 were consequent upon the over-trading and railway
mania of 1844, 1845, and 1846, and the failure of crops in Ireland and England in 1847.

The distress of England in 1847 was scarcely over when France was more severely affected than
at any period since the Continental War. Louis Philippe abdicated in February, 1848, when consols
closed at 88-7/8. By the close of the week they fell to 83, upon the formation of a provisional
government. The political dissensions and commercial revulsion led to a large withdrawal of
gold from the Bank of France, and finally the Government authorized, in March, the suspension
of the bank, which was followed by the suspension of the Bank of Belgium and by the Société
Generale.

Again, in 1857, the Bank of England was on the verge of suspension. Lord Palmerston and the
then cabinet issued an order, November 12, authorizing the bank, if they thought it advisable,
again to violate the charter; but it was found at the last moment unnecessary.

November was the critical period of the year 1857. The Times of November 12, 1857, contained
these announcements:

1. Bank charter suspended.

2. Interest in London, 10 per cent.

3.    "     in Hamburg, 10 per cent.

4.    "     in Paris, 8-1/2 per cent.

5.    "     in New York, 25 per cent.

6. Suspension of cash payments generally by all banks in the United States.

7. Two banks stopped in Glasgow, and one in Liverpool, and a great bill panic in London.

8. Commercial credit and transactions almost suspended in the country.

9. Bullion in the bank, £7,170,000.

10. Reserve notes in the bank, £975,000.

11. Bank liabilities, £40,875,000.

     'One gentleman, during the heat of the excitement at Glasgow, went
     into the Union Bank and presented a check for £500. The teller
     asked him if he wished gold. 'Gold!' replied he, 'no; give me
     notes, and let the fools who are frightened get the gold,' Another
     gentleman rushed into the same bank in a great state of excitement,
     with a check for £1,400. On being asked if he wished gold he
     replied, 'Yes.' 'Well,' said the teller, 'there is £1,000 in that
     bag and £400 in this one.' The gentleman was so flurried by the
     readiness with which the demand was granted that he lifted up the
     bag with the £400 only, and walked off, leaving the £1,000 on the
     counter. The teller, on discovering the bag, laid it aside for the
     time. Late in the day the gentleman returned to the bank in great
     distress, stating he had lost the bag with the £1,000, and could
     not tell whether he dropped it in the crowd or left it behind him
     on leaving the bank. 'Oh, you left it on the counter,' said the
     teller, quietly, 'and if you call to-morrow you will get your
     £1,000.' (Vide 'History Bank of England,' p. 429.)

The facts and statistics from the year 1844 to 1860 relating to the bank are superadded to
the English work by the American editor. Of the important phases of this period the editor
gives a slight sketch in the following paragraphs. The prominent financial movements in England,
France, and the United States are given in the subsequent pages of the volume.

     'The sixteen years which followed the last charter of the bank have
     been pregnant with important events of a financial character; the
     most important, perhaps, during the whole history of the
     institution. The bank has twice, during this short period, been on
     the brink of suspension, and was relieved only by the interference
     of Government. The second instance occurred after new gold, to the
     extent of one hundred millions sterling, or more, had been poured
     into Western Europe from California and Australia. The Bank of
     France had, during the same period, suspended specie payment. Two
     financial revulsions have occurred in the United States, when, with
     few exceptions, the banks of the whole country suspended specie
     payments. The production of gold and silver throughout the world,
     which, up to 1844, was annually about ten or twelve millions
     sterling, had recently advanced from twenty-five to thirty millions
     sterling per annum, thus stimulating industry and production
     largely throughout Europe and America. Sir Robert Peel, the author
     of the new charter of the bank, has left the world's stage, after
     witnessing the failure of the charter to fully accomplish the end
     promised; Europe and America, Asia and Europe, have been knit
     together by a wire cord, and capital is now subscribed to

         'Put a girdle round about the earth,'

     whereby London may speak to San Francisco (the prospective
     commercial centre of the world) in less than 'forty minutes.'
     During the same short space of sixteen years the suspended States
     of this Union (five at least) have resumed payment of their
     obligations; two violent wars, with sundry revolutions, have
     occurred in Europe; the ancient city of the Cortez has been
     conquered by the 'hordes of the North,' and magnanimously given up
     by the captors to the possession of their weaker enemy, and
     millions were paid to the latter for portions of their territory;
     the northwest passage of the American continent has been
     discovered; steam has accomplished wonders between Europe and
     America, and between Europe and their distant colonies of Asia,
     Africa, and Australia; Ireland has been on the verge of
     starvation,[6] when 600,000 of her people died from hunger alone
     and its effects, and her population was reduced two millions by
     emigration and privation; England's minister has been expelled from
     the capital of the United States; speculation has been rife in
     Europe and America, and its inevitable effects, revulsion and
     bankruptcy, have followed in its train; the railway and the
     telegraph have brought remote regions together; China, with her
     four hundred millions of people, has been conquered by the united
     forces of the English and the French.

     'The Bank of England, instead of pursuing one even course, with a
     view to permanent commercial interests, has unfortunately, and, we
     fear, from selfish and individual views, fostered speculation by
     reducing her rate of discount to 2 per cent., and soon after, but
     too late, discovered the error, and forced her borrowers to pay
     from 6 to 10 per cent.

     'We propose to give the leading events of each year, from 1844 to
     1861, referring the reader to authorities where more copious
     information can be gained by those who wish to study the invariable
     connection between commerce and money.

     'The bank shares in the depressed period of 1847-8 fell to 180,
     after having reached, in the flattering times of 1844-'5, 215 per
     share, or 115 per cent. advance. Consols, at the same depressed
     period, fell to 78-3/4, when starvation stared Ireland in its face,
     and the bank simultaneously sought protection from the Cabinet.'

Attention has been recently directed in this country to the premium on gold, or to the alleged
fall in the value of bank paper and Government notes. Although the premium on gold as an article
of merchandise has reached a high rate during the present year, it will be seen, on reference
to the reliable tables in the History of the Bank of England, that a great difference occurred
during the suspension of the bank in 1797 to 1819. Gold at one time (1812) reached £5 8s.,
a difference of 30 per cent. The annexed table shows the changes from 1809 to 1821.

YEARS                   |Price of    |Difference| Nominal  |Amount in
                        |Gold.       |from Mint | Taxes.   |Gold
                        |            |prices.   |          |Currency.
------------------------|------------|----------|----------|----------
                        | £ s. d.    |per cent. |   £      |    £
                        |            |          |          |
1809,                   | 4 9  10    | 16-1/3   |71,887,000|60,145,000
1810,                   | 4 5   0    |  9-1/10  |74,815,000|68,106,000
1811,                   | 4 17  1    | 24-1/2   |73,621,000|55,583,000
1812,                   | 5 1   4    | 30       |73,707,000|51,595,000
Sept. to Dec. 1812,     | 5 8   0    | 38-1/2   |   ...    |   ...
1813,                   | 5 6   2    | 36-1/10  |81,745,000|52,236,000
Nov. 1812, to Mch. 1813 | 5 10  0    | 41       |   ...    |   ...
1814,                   | 5  1  8    | 30-1/3   |83,726,000|58,333,000
1815,                   | 4 12  9    | 18-8/9   |88,394,000|66,698,000
1816,                   | 4  0  0    |  2-1/2   |78,909,000|72,062,000
Oct. to Dec. 1816       | 3 18  6    | under 1  |   ...    |   ...
1817,                   | 4  0  0    |  2-1/2   |58,757,000|57,259,000
1818,                   | 4  1  5    |  5       |59,391,000|56,025,000
1819, 4th Feb.          | 4  3  0    |  6-1/3   |58,288,000|54,597,000
1820,                   | 3 17 10-1/2|   par.   |59,812,000|59,812,000
1821,                   | 3 17 10-1/2|   par.   |61,000,000|61,000,000

The increased volume of Government and bank paper afloat in the United States since the 1st
January, 1862, is conceded to be only temporary. The Government is engaged in crushing the
greatest rebellion known to history; in doing this, the national expenditures are six or seven
fold what they ever were before, in a time of peace. During the four years 1813 to 1816, when
war raged with England, the whole expenses of the Government were $108,537,000. During the
Mexican war, when the disbursements of the treasury were much heavier, the average annual expenses
of the Government were about 35 to 48 millions. It will be well to recur to these tabular details
for future history. They are presented as follows, for the whole period of the General Government.

EXPENDITURES of the United States, exclusive of Payments on account of the Public Debt.

Years 1789-1792,  Washington,           $3,797,000
  "   1793-1796,      "                 12,083,000
  "   1797-1800,  John Adams,           21,338,000
  "   1800-1804,  Jefferson,            17,174,000
  "   1805-1808,      "                 23,927,000
  "   1809-1812,  Madison,              36,147,000
  "   1813-1816,     "                 108,537,000
  "   1817-1821,  Monroe,               58,698,000
  "   1821-1824,    "                   45,665,000
  "   1825-1828,  John Quincy Adams,    49,313,000
  "   1829-1832,  Jackson,              56,249,000
  "   1833-1836,     "                  87,130,000
  "   1837-1840,  Van Buren,           112,188,000
  "   1841-1844,  Harrison and Tyler,   81,216,000
  "   1846-1848,  Polk,                146,924,000
  "   1849-1852,  Taylor and Fillmore, 194,647,000
  "   1853-1856,  Pierce,              211,099,000
  "   1857-1860,  Buchanan,            262,974,000

During the past fiscal year, 1862-3 and the year 1863-4, the Government expenditures are estimated
at ten hundred millions of dollars. These heavy disbursements cannot be carried on merely by
the ordinary bank paper and the gold and silver of the country. Instead of sixty-five millions
of dollars, the average annual expenditures of the Government during the last administration,
these now involve the sum of five hundred millions annually. Hence the obvious obligation on
the part of the Government of putting in circulation the most reliable currency, and of avoiding
those of local banks, which do not possess the confidence of the people at a distance. This
can be done only by maintaining a currency of Government paper which every holder will have
full confidence in, and in which no loss can be sustained.

There is here no conflict or competition between the Government and the State banks. The latter
have the benefit of their legitimate circulation in their own respective localities; while
the national treasury furnishes to the troops and to the creditors of the nation a circulation
of treasury notes which must possess confidence as long as the Government lasts.

The policy of the English Government in this respect was a wise one. At the adoption of the
last charter of the bank (1844) the Government allowed the country banks to maintain from that
time forward the circulation then outstanding, which was not to be increased; and as fast as
the banks failed or were wound up voluntarily, their circulation was retired and the vacuum
became filled by the notes of the Bank of England. The latter was forbidden by its new charter
to exceed certain prescribed limits in its issues. They could issue to the amount of their
capital, £14,000,000, and beyond that to the extent of gold in the vaults. Thus the bank circulation
of England, Scotland, and Ireland is less now than in 1844, when the new principle was established,
viz.:

BANK CIRCULATION.

      Bank of England. Country Banks.  Ireland.   Scotland.  TOTAL.

1844,   £22,015,000     £7,797,000    £7,716,000 £3,804,000 £41,325,000 1862,    20,190,000
5,680,000     5,519,000  4,053,000  35,442,000

Had this principle been adopted in the United States at the same period, the excesses and extravagance
of 1856-'7 might have been obviated, as well as the revulsion of the latter year, and the distress
which followed.

Let us recur to the eventful history of the bank. Although a private institution, owned and
controlled by private capital, its large profits accruing for the benefit of its own shareholders,
yet it became so closely interwoven with the commerce, manufactures, trade, and the public
finances of the nation, that it may be considered as in reality a national institution. At
its inception its whole capital was swallowed by the treasury. This was a part of the contract
of charter. Its subsequent accumulations of capital, from £1,200,000, have likewise been absorbed
by the Government, until now the bank reports the Government debt to them to be £11,015,100,
and the Government securities held, to be £11,064,000. Without the aid of the bank, the national
treasury could not, probably, have made the enormous disbursements which were actually made
between the commencement of the American Revolution in 1776, and the termination of the continental
war of 1815. The bank here furnished, almost alone, 'the sinews of war.'

During this eventful period there were large numbers of provincial banks of issue created in
England and Ireland. These were managed mainly with a view to private profit, while the public
interests have suffered severely from the frequent expansions and contractions of the volume
of the currency through such private management, and from the numerous failures of these concerns.
The evils of this system were for many years the subject of discussion in Parliament and among
prominent journals. In 1826 the Edinburgh Review expressed the opinion that

     'So long, therefore, as any individual, or association of
     individuals, may issue notes of a low value, to be used in the
     common transactions of life, without lodging any security for their
     ultimate payment, so long is it certain that those panics which
     must necessarily occur every now and then, and against which no
     effectual precaution can be devised, must occasion the destruction
     of a greater or smaller number of banking establishments, and by
     consequence a ruinous fluctuation in the supply and value of
     money.' (Edinburgh Review, February, 1826.)

This was a period of great speculation in England. In the year 1823 no less than 532 companies
were chartered, with a nominal capital of 441 millions sterling. These speculations were fostered
by the increasing volume of bank paper. The evil increased, and was allowed to exist until
the year 1844, when a stop was put to the further increase of the volume of bank circulation,
and to the further incorporation of joint stock banks.

We learn one lesson here, which may have a good effect upon us if we will bear it in mind in
our future legislation, and take warning from the experiences of our contemporaries. We allude
to the obvious necessity in a country like ours, and, indeed, in any country, of maintaining
a national moneyed institution as a check upon the vacillation, expansions, and contractions
which mark the policy of small banks of issue. This national institution, while free from individual
profit, and without power to grant individual favors, should create and perform the functions
of a national currency, and execute all the details required by or for the national treasury.
Its chief utility would be as a check upon the excess to which all joint stock banks are liable--a
sort of controlling and conservative power to prevent that mischief which our past experience
shows has been the result of paper money when issued merely for private gain.

The advantage, the convenience, we may say the necessity, of a national circulation of paper
money, are fully demonstrated by our own past history, and by the history of European nations.
This circulation should be dictated by the wants of the National Government, and convertible,
at the will of the holder, into specie. With these obvious restraints it would accomplish its
ends and aims.

The Bank of England, in its early stages, was endangered by various and extraordinary circumstances.
Within three years of its establishment it was compelled to suspend payment to its depositors
in cash, and issued certificates therefor payable ten per cent. every fortnight. In 1709 the
Sacheverell riots occurred in London, and fears were felt that the bank would be sacked; but
this violence was obviated by well-trained troops. In 1718 John Law's bank was established
in France, and for two years kept the people in a ferment. This was followed by the South Sea
scheme in England, in 1720, 'a year (the historian Anderson says) remarkable beyond any other
which can be pitched upon for extraordinary and romantic projects.' The bank, of course, suffered
by these speculative measures, and was repeatedly exposed to a run upon its specie resources.

In 1722 the rest (or reserve fund) was established by the bank, as a measure to cover extraordinary
losses in the future, and to inspire more confidence among the public as to the ability of
the bank to meet reverses. This fund, in July, 1862, had accumulated to £3,132,500 sterling,
or about twenty-one and a half per cent. of the capital.

The first forged note of the Bank of England was presented in the year 1758, or sixty-four
years after the bank was established. In 1780 these forgeries became more numerous, and were
so well executed as to deceive the officers of the bank.

Let us now recur to some of the incidents connected with the bank in early ages. Of these,
the author, Mr. Francis, furnishes numerous instances.

Among other frauds upon the bank was that of clipping the guineas, by one of the clerks employed
in the bullion office. This occurred in 1767.

The forgery of its notes having been made a capital offence, the waste of life in consequence
was severe. During the eight years, 1795 to 1803, there were one hundred and forty executions
for this crime; and two hundred and nine between 1795 and 1809; and from 1797 to 1811 the executions
were 469. 'The visible connection between the issue of small notes and the effusion of blood,
is one of the most frightful parts of this case.'

In 1803 a fraud on the bank to the extent of £320,000 was perpetrated by Mr. Robert Astlett,
a cashier of the bank. This was in the re-issue of exchequer bills that had been previously
redeemed, but which were not cancelled. This fraud amounted to about 2-1/2 per cent. of the
capital, and although it did not prevent a dividend, it prevented the distribution of a bonus
which would otherwise have been paid to the shareholders.

In the year 1822 another fraud on the bank came to light. This was perpetrated by a bookkeeper,
and amounted to £10,000. In 1824 the fraud of Mr. Fauntleroy on the bank was discovered, amounting
to £360,000. This was done by forged powers of attorney for the transfer of Government consols.

The bank was brought near suspension again in 1825 by the imprudent expansion of its notes.
After the resumption of specie payments in 1820-'21, the true policy of the bank would have
been to maintain an even tenor of its way; instead of which it increased its circulation twenty-five
per cent. in the year 1825 (or from £18,292,000 to £25,709,000), while the issues of the country
banks were equally enlarged, giving encouragement to violent speculation among the people.
The specie reserve of the Bank of England fell from £14,200,000 in January 1824 to £1,024,000
in December, 1825. This difficulty of the bank was relieved by the issue of a few thousand
bills of £1 and £2.

Speculation had been rife in 1824; no less than 624 companies were started with a nominal capital
of £372,000,000, including mining, gas, insurance, railroad, steam, building, trading, provision,
and other companies. At the same time foreign loans were contracted in England to the extent
of £32,000,000, of which over three fourths were advanced in cash.

The country banks of England had increased their circulation from £9,920,000 in 1823 to £14,980,000
in 1825, or over fifty per cent., thus stimulating prices, and promoting speculation widely
throughout the country.

Immediately following the revulsion at the close of the year 1825, Mr. Huskisson's free trade
policy was advocated in the House of Commons by a vote of 223 to 40. In the same year lotteries
were suppressed in England. In 1828 branches of the Bank of England were established--a measure,
of course, unpopular among the provincial joint stock banks.

In the year 1832-'3 were brought forward three important measures in Parliament. One was the
abolishment of the death penalty for forgery; another was the modification of the usury laws;
the third was the re-charter of the bank.

The last criminal executed for forgery was a man by the name of Maynard, in December, 1829.
Public sentiment had long been opposed to the infliction of this punishment for the offence
of forgery, and transportation was now substituted in the prominent cases. England, at the
same time, opened the way for a gradual abolishment of the usury laws. At first the relief
was extended to short commercial paper, afterward to all paper having not over twelve months
to run, 1837; and finally, in 1854, the usury laws were removed from all negotiable paper,
as well as from bonds and mortgages.

By the new charter of 1833, Bank of England notes were, for the first time, made a legal tender,
except at the bank itself. Joint stock banks were authorized in the metropolis, but were prohibited
from issuing notes.

The English work of Mr. Francis is anecdotical in its character. The American edition conveys
to the reader, for the first time, a resumé of the leading movements in Parliament on the subject
of the bank, and its close connection with the Government finances. The part which Mr. Pitt,
Mr. Canning, Sir Robert Peel, and other distinguished statesmen took in the relations between
the bank and the exchequer, is in the supplementary portion of the new edition shown, as well
as the views of Lord Althorpe, Lord Ashburton, Lord Geo. Bentinck, Mr. Thomas Baring, Lord
Brougham, Mr. Gilbart, Sir James Graham, Lord King, Earl of Liverpool, Jones Loyd, Lord Lyndhurst,
Mr. Rothschild, and others who exercised a large influence over the monetary interests of their
day.

In the consideration of the banking and currency questions of the day and of the last and present
century, it is desirable to have thus brought together in a single work, a continuous history
of the institution which has had so large an influence upon the public interests of Europe,
and a review of the important circumstances which marked the progress of the bank in its successful
efforts to sustain England against foreign enemies and domestic revulsions, an index to the
speculative movements of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, when commerce, trade, and
the vast monetary interests of Europe and America have been unnecessarily and cruelly involved.

The letter addressed by Secretary Chase, of the Treasury Department, to the chairman of the
Committee of Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and to the chairman of the Senate
Committee on Finance, under date June 7th, 1862, suggested the power by Congress to the treasury
to issue $150,000,000 in treasury notes, in addition to this sum, authorized by the act of
February 25th, 1862; also, authority to receive fifty millions of dollars on deposit, in addition
to fifty millions previously authorized by Congress. These suggestions were favorably considered
in both Houses, and the recommendations of the Secretary were adopted fully, leading to the
adoption of a national system of finance, which will eventually reëstablish and preserve national
credit. Fears have been expressed in some quarters that this increased volume of paper money
would be a public evil, and serve to disturb the value of property and the price of labor.
This might be reasonably anticipated if the country were at peace, and the Government expenditures
were upon a peace footing.

But a state of things exists now in this country hitherto unknown. The contracts of the Government
involve the expenditure of larger sums than were ever paid before in the same space of time
by this or any other Government. In the disbursements of these large sums it is an obvious
duty of Congress to provide a national circulation of uniform value throughout the whole country--a
circulation of a perfectly reliable character, not subject in the least to the ordinary vicissitudes
of trade or to the revulsions which have frequently marked our history. These revulsions have
been witnessed, and their results seen by the leading public men of the century. Mr. Madison
saw at an early day the importance of creating and sustaining a government circulation. On
this principle it interferes to prevent the circulation of spurious coin.' Counterfeit coin
is more readily detected than a fictitious paper currency, yet no sane man would advocate the
repeal of the laws which prohibit it. Why, then, permit the unlimited manufacture of paper
money of an unreliable character?

In the consideration of this subject we should divest ourselves of all selfish views of private
profit and advantage. We should look only to the public good, to stability in trade and commerce,
and to the general interests of the people at large as distinguished from those of a few individuals.
It is clearly then the province of government to establish and to regulate the paper money
of the nation, so that it shall possess the following attributes:

I. To be uniform in value throughout all portions of the country.

II. To be perfectly reliable at all times as a medium for the payment of debts.

III. To be issued in limited amounts, and under the control of the Government only.

IV. To be convertible, at the pleasure of the holder, into gold or silver.

It must be conceded that these requisites do not belong, and never can belong, to paper issued
by joint stock banks, which are governed with a view to the largest profit, and which are but
little known beyond their own immediate localities.

Recent history assures us that abuses have been practised in reference to the bank circulation
of the country, which have led to violent revulsions and severe loss. England experienced the
same results between the years 1790 and 1840, and to such an extent that in the year 1844 her
statesmen devised a system whereby no further expansion of paper money should occur. The amount
then existing was assumed to be a minimum of the amount required for commercial transactions,
and it was ordered that all bank issues beyond that sum shall be represented by a deposit of gold.

If the Bank of England had been governed by considerations of public welfare, and not by those
of private interest, it would not have reduced the rate of interest to 2-1/2 per cent. in 1844-'5,
thus producing violent speculation, and leading to the revulsion of 1849. Nor would the bank
have established low rates of interest only in the year 1857, thus leading this powerful institution
to the verge of bankruptcy, and to the clemency of the British Cabinet in November of that year.

England has checked the paper circulation of the country, but has not withdrawn from the bank
the power to promote speculation by extravagant loans at a low rate of discount.

The Governments of France and England have both assumed control of the paper currency of their
respective countries. This is sound policy, and it is one of the prerogatives that must be
exercised, in its full force, by the Government of the United States and by all other governments,
if stability, permanency, consistency are to be observed or maintained for the people. This
is obviously necessary in a time of peace and prosperity; it is perhaps more so in a time of
rebellion or war, like the present. Circumstances may arise where it will be the course of
wisdom and safety to suspend specie payment; and, in some extreme exigencies, to forbid the
export of specie.

This position was well explained by Mr. J.W. Gilbart, manager of the London and Westminster
Bank, who, in his testimony before Sir Robert Peel, in 1843, said, 'If I were prime minister,
I would immediately, on the commencement of war, issue an order in council for the bank to
stop payment. I stated also that I spoke as a politician, not as a banker. * * * I came to
the conclusion that, under the circumstances of the war of 1797, a suspension of cash payments
was not a matter of choice, but of necessity.' (Vide 'History of the Bank of England,' New
York edition, p. 130.)

We come now to consider what is necessary, in order to restore the currency of the United States
to a specie footing. This restoration is demanded alike by motives of justice and sound policy.
No contracts can be well entered into, unless the currency of the country is upon a substantial
and permanent footing of redemption. It is a matter which concerns every individual in the
community; it is especially so to the General Government in view of its extraordinary expenditures:
and no commercial prosperity can be maintained without it.

A restoration of public and private credit can be accomplished only by an observance of those
sound principles of finance that have been announced by the wise men of our own and other countries.
Mr. Alexander Hamilton, Mr. Gallatin, Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madison, each in his turn advocated
a national institution, by which the currency of the country could be placed upon a reliable
and permanent footing. Such an institution should control the currency and receive surplus
capital on deposit; but need not interfere with the legitimate operations of the State banks
as borrowers and lenders of money, nor encourage in the slightest degree, through loans, any
speculative movements among the people.

In the next place our people must resort to and maintain more economy in their individual expenditure,
and thus preserve a balance of foreign trade in our own favor. It is shown that, during the
fiscal year ending 30 June, 1860, there were imported into the United States goods, wholly
manufactured, of the value of ... $166,073,000, partially manufactured, 62,720,000.

We can dispense with two thirds of such articles during our present national reverses, and
rely upon our own domestic labor for similar products, viz.:

  Manufactures of Wool,                       $37,937,000
      "        of Silk,                        32,948,000
      "        of Cotton,                      32,558,000
      "        of Flax,                        10,736,000
  Laces and Embroideries,                       4,017,000
  Gunny Cloths, Mattings,                       2,386,000
  Clothing,                                     2,101,000
  Iron, and Manufactures of Iron and Steel,    18,694,000
  China and Earthenware,                        4,387,000
  Clocks, Chronometers, Watches,                2,890,000
  Boots, Shoes, and Gloves,                     2,230,000
  Miscellaneous,                               15,189,000
                                              -----------
                                              166,073,000

besides other articles exceeding one hundred millions in value.

Rather than send abroad thirty or forty millions in gold annually, as we have done of late
years, let us dispense with foreign woollen goods, silk and cotton goods, laces, &c., and encourage
our own mills, at least until the war and its debt are over.

Mr. Madison said much in a few words, when he said:

     'The theory of 'let us alone' supposes that all nations concur in
     a perfect freedom of commercial intercourse. Were this the case,
     they would, in a commercial view, be but one nation, as much as the
     several districts composing a particular nation; and the theory
     would be as applicable to the former as the latter. But this golden
     age of free trade has not yet arrived, nor is there a single nation
     that has set the example. No nation can, indeed, safely do so,
     until a reciprocity, at least, be insured to it. * * A nation,
     leaving its foreign trade, in all cases, to regulate itself, might
     soon find it regulated by other nations into subserviency to a
     foreign interest.'

There is much good sense, too, in the views promulgated by another president, who said, in
relation to our independence of other nations:

     'The tariff bill before us, embraces the design of fostering,
     protecting, and preserving within ourselves the means of national
     defence and independence, particularly in a state of war. * *
     *The experience of the late war (1812) taught us a lesson, and one
     never to be forgotten. If our liberty and republican form of
     government, procured for us by our Revolutionary fathers, are worth
     the blood and treasure at which they were obtained, it surely is
     our duty to protect and defend them. * * * What is the real
     situation of the agriculturist? Where has the American farmer a
     market for his surplus product? Common sense points out the remedy. Draw from
     agriculture the superabundant labor; employ it in mechanism and
     manufactures; thereby creating a home-market for your
     bread-stuffs, and distributing labor to the most profitable account
     and benefits to the country. Take from agriculture in the United
     States six hundred thousand men, women and children, and you will
     at once give a home-market for more bread-stuffs than all Europe
     now furnishes us. * * * It is
     the nation of great internal resources, of vigorous productive
     power and self-dependent strength, which is always best prepared
     and most able, not only to defend itself, but to lend others a
     helping hand.'

If our people would maintain their own national integrity, their own individual independence,
and their true status in the great family of nations of the earth, they will [at least until
the present rebellion is crushed, and until the public debt thereby created shall be extinguished]
pursue a strict course of public and private economy. Let us encourage and support our own
manufactures, and thereby contribute to the subsistence and wealth of our own laborers instead
of contributing millions annually to the pauper labor of European nations; especially of those
nations that have failed to give us countenance in the present struggle and that have, on the
contrary, given both direct and indirect aid to the rebels of the South.

The United States have within themselves, in great abundance, contributed by a bountiful Providence,
the leading products of the earth. In metals and in agricultural products, we exceed any and
all other countries of the earth. If we encourage the labor of our own people in the development
of the great resources of the country, we shall not only preserve our own commercial independence,
but we shall soon be, as we ought to be in view of such advantages, the creditor nation of
the world, and compel other countries to resort to us for the raw materials for their own manufacturing
districts.

With the aid of the vast iron and coal mines of our own country, we can construct and keep
in force an adequate navy for peace or for war. Our skilled industry can produce firearms equal
to any in the world. The vast agricultural resources of the West yield abundance for ourselves
and a large surplus for other countries. The breadstuffs of the West and Northwest; the tobacco
of the Middle States, and the cotton of the South are in demand, throughout nearly all Europe.
Let us then be independent ourselves of foreign manufacturers, and endeavor to place the rest
of the world under obligations to our own country for the necessaries of life. This will do
more to preserve peace than all the arguments of cabinets or the combined navies and armies
of the world.

Lord Palmerston and Lord John Russell said,[7] in parliament, in 1842, five years before the
famine in Ireland: 'We are not, we cannot be, independent of foreign nations, any more than
they can of us: * * * two millions of our people have been dependent on foreign countries for
their daily food. At least five millions of our people are dependent on the supplies of cotton
from America, of foreign wool or foreign silk. * * * The true independence of a great commercial
nation is to be found, not in raising all the produce it requires within its own bound, but
in attaining such a preëminence in commerce that the time can never arise when other nations
will not be compelled, for their own sales, to minister to its wants.'

Now this principle, enunciated twenty years ago by men, who now hold the reins of the English
Government, is especially one for us to bear in mind. While England, from her limited surface,
can never be independent of other countries for the supply of food, we may say, and we can
demonstrate, that the United States can reach that preëminence to which the great English statesman
alluded--a preëminence which he would gladly attain for his own countrymen.

To the General Government was confided by the framers of the Constitution the power to 'coin
money, and regulate the value thereof;' and the States were forbidden to 'emit bills of credit;'
from which we may infer that it was intended to place the control of the currency in the hands
of the General Government. It will be generally conceded that it would be wiser to have one
central point of issue than several hundred as at present. There should be but one form for,
and one source of, the currency. It should emanate from a source where the power cannot be
abused, and where the interests of the people at large, and not of individuals, will be consulted.

The people have thus an interest at stake. It is for their benefit that a national circulation,
of a perfectly reliable character, should be established. The remark made by Sir Robert Peel,
in parliament, in May, 1844, at the time of the recharter of the bank, applies with equal force
to the national currency of this or any other country.

     'There is no contract, public or private, national or individual,
     which is unaffected by it. The enterprises of trade--the
     arrangements made in all the domestic relations of society--the
     wages of labor--pecuniary transactions of the highest amount and
     the lowest--the payment of the national debt--the provision for the
     national expenditure--the command which the coin of the lowest
     denomination has over the necessaries of life--are all affected by
     the decision to which we may come.'

Sir Robert Peel wisely comprehended the powers and attributes of a national currency, and we
may wisely adopt his idea that such a national currency, controlled by the national legislature,
for the use and benefit of the people, is the only one that can be safely adopted.

       *       *       *       *       *

The national banking system established by Congress, in the year 1863, at the suggestion of
Secretary Chase, of the Treasury Department, is the initiatory step toward a highly desirable
reform in the paper currency of the country. Already over seventy national banks have been
organized, under the act of Congress, with a combined capital of ten millions of dollars, whose
circulation will have not only a uniform appearance, but a uniform value throughout the whole
country. Numerous others are in process of organization. To the community at large the new
system is desirable, because it secures to the people a currency of uniform value and perfect
reliability. The notes of these institutions will be at par in every State in the Union, and
holders may rely upon the certainty of redemption upon demand: whether the institution be solvent
or not--in existence or not--the Government holds adequate security for instant redemption
of all notes issued under the law.

This feature of the paper currency of the country is one that has long been needed. For the
want of it the States have been for many years crowded with a currency of unequal market value,
and of doubtful security. Added to this is a marked feature of the new system which did not
pertain to the Bank of the United States in its best days. Its workings are free from individual
favoritism. No loans are granted to political or personal friends, at the risk of the Government,
and all temptation to needless and hurtful expansion is thus destroyed. There is no mammoth
institution, under the control of one or a few individuals, liable at times to be prostituted
to political and personal ends of an objectionable character. While the banks under the new
system are spread over a large space, they perform what is needed of the best managed institutions;
and although perfectly independent of each other in their liabilities, expenses, losses, and
in their action generally, yet together they form a practical unit, and will be serviceable
in counteracting that tendency to inflation and speculation which has marked many years in
the commercial history of this country.

We consider the Bank Act of 1863 as one of the most important features of the Thirty-seventh
Congress, and of this Administration. It will create a link long wanted between the States
and Territories, and do much to strengthen the Union and maintain commercial prosperity. The
country will hereafter honor Secretary Chase for the conception and success of this scheme,
even if there were no other distinguished traits in his administration of the Treasury and
the Government finances.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 6: 'The scenes exhibited far exceeded in horror anything yet recorded in European
history.' (Alison.) America, in her own fulness, sent succor to famished Ireland, in 1847,
and when her own day of travail came near, in 1861, England volunteered no helping hand to
her kindred.]

[Footnote 7: See 'History of the Bank of England,' p. 851.]

OCTOBER AFTERNOON IN THE HIGHLANDS.

  Slowly toward the western mountains
    Sinks the gold October sun;
  Longer grow the deepening shadows,
    And the day is nearly done.

  Rosy gleams the quiet River
    'Neath the crimson-tinted sky;
  White-winged vessels, wind-forsaken,
    On the waveless waters lie.

  Glow the autumn-tinted valleys,
    On the hills soft shadows rest,
  Growing warmer, purple glowing,
    As the sun sinks toward the west.

  Slanting sunlight through the Cedars,
    Scarlet Maples all aglow,
  Long rays streaming through the forests,
    Gleam the dead leaves lying low.

  Golden sunshine on the cornfields,
    Glittering ripples on the stream.
  And the still pools in the meadows
    Catch the soft October gleam.

  Warmer grows the purple mountains,
    Lower sinks the glowing sun,
  Soon will fade the streaming sunlight--
    See, the day is nearly done!

THE ISLE OF SPRINGS.

CHAPTER III.

THE COUNTRY

After having been detained in town several days longer than I had reckoned on, by heavy rains,
which ran through the streets in rivers, and filled the bed of Sandy Gully, through which we
must pass, with a rushing torrent of irresistible strength, a small party of us left Kingston
one morning for the mountains of St. Andrew and Metcalfe, among which lie the stations of the
American missionaries whom we had come to join. We were mounted on the small horses of the
country, whose first appearance excited some doubts in the mind of a friend whether he was
to carry the horse or the horse him. However, they are not quite ponies, and their blood is
more noble than their size, being a good deal of it Arab. They are decidedly preferable for
mountain travel to larger animals.

We directed our course over the hot plains towards the mountains which rose invitingly before
us, ready to receive us into their green depths. On leaving the town, we passed first through
sandy lanes bordered by cactus hedges, rising in columnar rows, and then came out upon the
excellent macadamized road over which thirteen of the sixteen miles of our journey lay. As
we went along we met a continual succession of groups of the country people, mostly women and
children, coming into Kingston with their weekly load of provisions to sell. They eyed us with
expressions varying from good-natured cordiality to sullenness, and occasionally we heard a
rude remark at the expense of the 'Buckras;' but for the most part their demeanor was civil
and pleasant. Most of them had the headloads without which a negro woman seems hardly complete
in the road, varying in dimensions from a huge basket of yams or bananas to an ounce vial.
How such a slight thing manages to keep its perpendicular with their careless, swinging gait,
is something marvellous, but they manage it to perfection. Almost every group, in addition,
had a well-laden donkey--comical little creatures, looking hardly bigger under their huge hampers
than well-sized Newfoundland dogs, and hurrying nimbly along, with a speed that betokened a
wholesome remembrance of a good many hard thrashings in the past and a reasonable dread of
similar ones in the future. If I held the doctrine of transmigration, I should be firmly persuaded
that the souls of parish beadles, drunken captains, and other petty tyrants, shifted quarters
into the bodies of Jamaica negroes' donkeys. One patriotic black woman, whose donkey was rather
refractory, relieved her mind by exclaiming, in a tone of infinite disgust, 'O-h-h you Roo-shan!'
accompanying her objurgation by several emphatic demonstrations on his hide of how she was
disposed to treat a 'Rooshan' at that present moment.[8]

Going on, we passed several beautiful 'pens,' as farms devoted to grazing are called. These
near town are little more than mere pieces of land surrounding elegant villas, the residence
of wealthy gentlemen whose business lies in Kingston. Here you see 'the one-storied house of
the tropics, with its green jalousies and deep veranda,' surrounded by handsomely kept meadows
of the succulent Guinea grass, which clothes so large a part of the island with its golden
green, and enclosed by wire fences or by the intricate but delicate logwood hedges, or else
by stone walls. On either side of the carriage road which swept round before the most elegant
of these villas, that of Mr. Porteous, we noticed rows of the mystic century plant.

At last we left the comparatively arid plain, with its scantier vegetation, and began to ascend
Stony Hill, which is 1,360 feet high where the road passes over it. The cool air passing through
the gap, and our increasing elevation, now began to temper the heat, and soon the clouds began
to gather again, and a slight rain fell. But I did not notice it, for every step of the journey
now seemed to bring me farther into the heart of fairyland. It was not any variety of colors,
but the unutterable depth of green, enclosing us, as we ascended, more and more completely
in its boundless exuberance. From that moment the richest verdure of my native country has
seemed pale and poor. Reaching the top of the hill, we saw above us the higher range, looking
down on us through the shifting mists, with that inexpressible gracefulness which tempers the
grandeur of tropical mountains.

We descended the hill on the other side into a small inland valley, containing the two estates
of Golden Spring and Temple Hall. The former, which presented nothing very noticeable then,
has since passed under the management of a gentleman who to a judicious and energetic personal
oversight has added a kindliness and strict honesty in his dealings with the laborers much
more desirable than frequent in the island. As a result of this, Golden Spring has become a
garden. A great many more dilapidated estates would become gardens under the same efficacious
mode of treatment.

The streams were so swollen by the rain that on coming to what is commonly a trifling rivulet,
we found it so high as to cost us some trouble to cross. However, we all got over, although
one servant boy with his pack horse was caught by the current and carried down several rods
almost into the river, which was rushing by in a turbid torrent. I ought to have been much
alarmed, but having a happy way, in new circumstances, of taking it for granted that everything
which happens is just what ought to happen then and there, I stood composedly on the farther
bank, nothing doubting that the boy and the beast had their own good reasons for striking out
a new track, and it was not till they were both safe on land that I learned with some consternation
that they had come within an inch of being drowned.

At length we turned aside into a byroad leading up a steep hill, slippery with mud, and left
this pleasant valley. I passed through it many a time afterwards, and never lost the impression
of its peaceful richness.

We now found ourselves in the wild country in which our missionary stations lie. Hills rose
around on every side; their surfaces broken and furrowed into every fantastic variety of shape,
with only distance enough between their bases for the mountain streams to flow. In our latitude
such a country would be much of the time a bleak desolation. But here the mantle of glorious
and everlasting green softens and enriches the broken and fluctuating surfaces into luxuriant
and cloying beauty. In such an ocean of verdure we now found ourselves, its emerald waves rolling
above, below, and around us. Our road, when once we had surmounted the short hill, was a narrow,
winding bridle path, which kept along almost upon a level over a continual succession of natural
causeways, spanning the gullies with such an appearance of art as I have never seen elsewhere.
I afterward learned that these are dikes of trap, from which the softer rock has been gradually
disintegrated, leaving them thus happily arranged for human convenience.

After three miles' travel over these roads of nature's making, in a rain which at last became
quite uncomfortable, we came finally to Oberlin Mission House. A West Indian country house,
without fire or carpets, must be very pleasingly fitted up not to look dreary in a wet day,
and Oberlin House appeared rather cheerless as we alighted with streaming garments, the romance
pretty well soaked out of us for the time. But after supper and a change of clothes, and the
clearing away of the clouds, our dismal spirits cleared up too, and we went out into the garden
to enjoy the rare flowers and plants--the crimson-leaved ponsetto, the Bleeding Heart, with
its ensanguined centre, the curiously pied and twisted Croton Pictum, the Plumbago, well named
from the leaden hue of its flowers, the long, deep-red leaves of the Dragon's Blood, the purple
magnificence of the Passion flower, relieved by the more familiar beauty of the Four o'clock
and of the Martinique rose. Seeing something that pleased me, I stepped forward to view it
more narrowly, when a sudden access of acute pain in one foot, quickly spreading to the knee,
admonished me that I had got into mischief in the shape of an ant's nest, and gave me the first
instalment of a lesson I learned in due time very thoroughly, that the beauties of Jamaica
are to be enjoyed with a very cautious regard to the paramount rights of the insect creation.

When I went to bed, I found the bedclothes saturated with dampness. But I learned that it was
like a Newport fog, too saline to be mischievous. The atmosphere of the island, even in the
brightest and most elastic weather, is so impregnated with moisture, that a Leyden jar will
lose its charge in being taken across the room, and an electrical machine will not work without
a pan of coals under the cylinder. But as no part of the island is more than twenty-five miles
from the sea, this continual moisture appears to be quite innocuous, its worst effect being
the musty smell which it causes in everything in the mountains, where there is the most rain.
Use fortunately takes from us the perception of this, or it would be quite intolerable. Perpetual
summer, and the utmost glory of earth, sky, and sea, are not to be enjoyed without drawbacks
that would make a careful housekeeper very doubtful about the desirableness of the exchange.
And so ended my first day in the country.

CHAPTER IV.

GEOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE ISLAND

I had intended writing some of my first impressions about Jamaica, particularly its negro population.
But I find, on reviewing my residence of five years and a half in the tranquil island, that
first impressions melt so imperceptibly into final conclusions, that it appears best not to
attempt a too formal separation of them. Before recounting the results of my own experience,
however, in any form, it will not be amiss to attempt some general description of the island
and of its population, and to give a slight sketch of its history.

The parallel of 18° N lat. passes through the island of Jamaica, which has thus a true tropical
climate. It is 160 miles in length and 40 in average breadth, having thus a plane area of 6,400
square miles, being about equal to the united area of Connecticut and Rhode Island. Although
the third in size of the Greater Antilles, it comes at a great remove after Hayti, the second,
being not more than one-fourth as large. Nor does it compare in fertility with either Hayti
or Cuba. The former island is the centre of geological upheaval, and the great rounded masses,
sustaining a soil of inexhaustible depth, run off from thence splintering into sharp ridges,
which in Jamaica become veritable knife edges, sustaining a soil comparatively thin. The character
of the island is that of a mountain mass, which, as the ancient watermark on the northern coast
shows, has at some remote period been tilted over, and has shot out an immense amount of detritus
on its southern side, forming thus the plains which extend along a good part of that coast,
varying in breadth from ten to twenty miles, besides the alluvial peninsula of Vere. In the
interior, also, there is an upland basin of considerable extent, looking like the dry bed of
a former lake, which now forms the chief part of the parish of St. Thomas-in-the-Vale. The
mountain mass which makes the body of the island, running in various ranges through its whole
length, culminates in the eastern part of it in the Blue Mountains, whose principal summit,
the Blue Mountain Peak, is 7,500 feet high. It is said that Columbus, wishing to give Queen
Isabella an impression of the appearance of these, took a sheet of tissue paper, and crumpling
it up in his hand, threw it on a table, exclaiming, 'There! such is their appearance.' The
device used by the great discoverer to convey to the mind of the royal Mother of America some
image of her new-found realms, forcibly recurs to the mind of the traveller as he sails along
the southeastern coast, and notices the strange contortions of the mountain surfaces. But seen
from the northern shore, at a greater distance, through the purple haze which envelops them,
their outlines leave a different impression. I shall always remember their aspect of graceful
sublimity, as seen from Golden Vale, in Portland, and of massive sweetness, as seen from Hermitage
House, in the parish of St. George. The gray buttresses of their farthest western peak, itself
over 5,000 feet in height, rose in full view of a station where I long resided, and the region
covered by their lower spurs, ranging in elevation from seven to ten and twelve hundred feet,
is that which especially deserves the name of the 'well-watered land,' or, as it is poetically
rendered, the 'isle of springs,' of which Jamaica, or perhaps more exactly Xaymaca, is the
Indian equivalent. There you meet in most abundance with those crystal rivulets, every few
hundred yards threading the road, and going to swell the wider streams which every mile or
two cross the traveller's way, laving his horse's sides with refreshing coolness, as they hurry
on in their tortuous course from the mountain heights to the sea. Farther west the mountains
and hills assume gentler and more rounded forms, particularly in the parish of St. Anne, the
Garden of Jamaica. I regret that I know only by report the scenes of Eden-like loveliness of
this delightful parish. It is principally devoted to grazing, and its pastures are maintained
in a park-like perfection. Grassy eminences, crowned with woods, and covered with herds of
horses and the handsome Jamaica cattle, descend, in successive undulations, to the sea. Over
these, from the deck of a vessel a few miles out, may be seen falling the silver threads of
many cascades. Excellent roads traverse the parish, which is inhabited by a gentry in easy
circumstances, and by a contented and thriving yeomanry. St. Anne appears to be truly a Christian
Arcadia.

In respect of climate and vegetation, there are three Jamaicas--Jamaica of the plains, Jamaica
of the uplands, and Jamaica of the high mountains. The highest summit of the mountain region,
is below the line at which snow is ever formed in this latitude, and it is disputed whether
an evanescent hoarfrost even is sometimes seen upon it. As high as four and five thousand feet
there are residences, which, however, purchase freedom from the lowland heats at the expense
of being a large part of the time enveloped in chilling fogs. Here the properly tropical productions
cease to thrive, and melancholy caricatures of northern vegetables and fruits take their place.
You see in the Kingston market diminutive and watery potatoes and apples, that have come down
from the clouds, and on St. Catherine's Peak I once picked a few strawberries, which had about
as much savor as so many chips. The noble forest trees of the lower mountains, as you go up,
give way to an exuberant but spongy growth of tree-ferns and bushes. Great herds of wild swine,
descended from those introduced by the Spaniards, roam these secluded thickets, and once furnished
subsistence to the runaway negroes who, under the name of Maroons, for several generations
annoyed and terrified the island.

In these high mountains the sense of deep solitude is at once heightened and softened by the
flute-like notes of the solitaire. I shall never forget the impression produced by first hearing
this. It was on the top of St. Catherine's Peak, fifty-two hundred feet above the sea, in the
early morning, when the mountain solitude seemed most profound, that my companion and I heard
from the adjacent woods its mysterious note. It was a soft and clear tone, somewhat prolonged,
and ending in a modulation which imparted to it an indescribable effect, as if of supernal
melancholy. It seemed almost as if some mild angel were lingering pensively upon the mountain
tops, before pursuing his downward flight among the unhappy sons of men.

The uplands of the island, from 800 to 1,500 feet above the sea, are a cheerful, sunny region,
in which the tropical heat is tempered by almost constant refreshing breezes, and, in the eastern
part at least, by abundant showers. Some of the western parishes not unfrequently suffer terribly
from drought. There are two or three which have not even a spring, depending wholly upon rain
water collected in tanks. These sometimes become dry, causing unutterable distress both to
man and beast. We hear even sometimes of poor people starving during these seasons of drought.
But our more favored region in the east scarcely knows dearth. Our mighty mountain neighbors
seldom permitted us even to fear it, and were more apt to send us a deluge than a drought.

In the uplands our winter temperature was commonly about 75° in the shade at noon, and the
summer temperature about ten degrees higher. The nights are almost always agreeably cool, and
frequent showers and breezes allay the sultriness of the days. I never saw the thermometer
above 90° in the shade, and seldom below 65°. It once fell to 54°, to the lamentable discomfort
of our feelings and fingers. Of course, where the sun for months is nearly vertical, and twice
in the summer actually so, the heat of his direct beams is intense. But those careful precautions
of avoiding travelling in the middle of the day, on which some lay such stress, we never concerned
ourselves with in Jamaica, and I could not discover that we were ever the worse for it. An
umbrella was enough to stand between us and mischief.

On the whole, it may safely be said that there is no climate more like that which we imagine
of Eden than that of the highland region of Jamaica during a large part of the year. It is
true that after a while northern constitutions begin to miss the stimulus of occasional cold.
But for a few years nothing could be more delightful. The chief drawback is that at uncertain
cycles there come incessant deluges of rain for months together, making it dreary and uncomfortable
both in doors and out. Years will sometimes pass before there is any excessive amount of these,
and then sometimes for years together they will prevail to a most disagreeable extent. They
break up the mountain roads and swell the mountain streams to such a degree as to render travelling
almost impossible, and in a country where your friends are few, you do not like to be kept
back from seeing them by the imminent risk of finding no road at all on the side of a hill
where at best there is barely room enough between the bank and the gully for one horse to pass
another, or of finding yourself between two turns of a stream, with a sudden shower making
it impossible for you to get either forward or back. But during my residence I had just enough
of these adventures to give a pleasant zest to life. And after a tremendous rain of hours,
when the sun reappeared, and the banks of fleecy cloud were once more seen floating tranquilly
in heaven, and the streams ran again crystal clear, and the hills smiled again in all the glory
of their brilliant green, and the air had again its wonted temper, at once balmy and elastic,
it was enough to make amends for all previous discomfort.

Although no part of the island is peculiarly favorable to constitutions of the European race,
yet with prudence and temperance foreigners find this midland region reasonably healthy. The
missionaries, who have mostly resided in the uplands, have but seldom fallen victims to fevers.
Foreigners must not expect to live here without occasional attacks of fever; but with care,
there need be little apprehension of a fatal result, except to those of a sanguine temperament
or of a corpulent habit. And the general exemption from the dreadful ravages of consumption
may well be thought to compensate the somewhat greater risks from fever. Even on the plains,
that immense mortality of whites from the mother country which once gave to Jamaica the ominous
name of 'The Grave of Europeans,' was caused as much by their reckless intemperance as by any
necessity of the climate. Or, rather, habits which in Great Britain might have been indulged
in with comparative impunity, in Jamaica were rapidly fatal. It is said that another cause
of the excessive mortality among the overseers was that they were often secretly poisoned by
the blacks. On some plantations, I have heard it said, overseer after overseer was poisoned
off, almost as soon as he arrived. In most cases, I dare say, it would be found that over-liberal
potations of Jamaica rum were the poison that did the mischief. But the reports have probably
some foundation in truth. An oppressed race, seldom daring to strike openly, would be very
apt to devise subtle ways of vengeance. It will be remembered that one of the most frequent
items in our own Southern newspapers used to be accounts of attempts made by slave girls to
poison their masters' families. Arsenic, which they commonly used, is a clumsy means, almost
sure to be detected; but in the West Indies, where the proportion of native Africans was always
very large, the African sorcerers, the dreaded Obi-men, who exercise so baleful a power over
the imaginations of the blacks, appear also to have availed themselves of other than imaginary
charms to keep up their credit as the disposers of life and death, and to have often gained
such a knowledge of slow vegetable poisons as made them formidable helpers of revenge, whether
against their own race or against the race of their oppressors. In a recent Jamaica story of
Captain Mayne Reid's, the plot centres in the hideous figure of an old Obi-man, who wreaks
his revenge for former wrongs in this secret way, destroying victim after victim from among
the lords of the soil. The piece is stocked with horrors enough for the most ravenous devourer
of yellow-covered literature, but nevertheless it is so true to the conditions of life in the
old days of Jamaica, that it is well worth reading for a lively sense of the time when the
fearful influences of savage heathenism, slavery, and tropical passion were working together
in that land of rarest beauty and of foulest sin. Evil enough remains, but, thank God, the
hideous shadows of the past have fled away forever.

But these tragical remembrances and suspicions belong rather to the plains, into which we are
about to descend. Here we feel distinctly that we are in the tropics. The sweltering heat,
tempered, indeed, by the land and sea breezes, but still sufficiently oppressive, and almost
the same day and night, leaves no doubt of this fact. Vegetation, too, appears more distinctly
tropical. The character of the landscape in the two regions is quite different. In the uplands
the wealth of glowing green swallows up peculiarities of form, and presents little difference
of color except the endless diversity of its own shades. There are, however, some distinct
features of the landscape. Conspicuous on every hillside are the groves 'where the mango apples
grow,' their mass of dense rounded foliage looking not unlike our maples, and giving a pleasant
sense of home to the northern sojourner. The feathery bamboo, most gigantic of grasses, runs
in plumy lines across the country. Around the negro cottages, here and there, rise groups of
the cocoanut palms, giving, more than anything else, a tropical character to the landscape.
On a distant eminence may perhaps be seen a lofty ceiba or cotton tree, its white trunk rising
sixty or seventy feet from the ground without a limb, and then putting out huge, scraggy arms,
loaded with parasites. Every lesser feature is swamped in verdure, except that here and there
the whitewashed walls of a negro cottage of the better sort gleam pleasantly forth from embowering
hedges and fruit trees. I do not know how Wordsworth's advice to make country houses as much
as possible of the color of the surrounding country may apply among the gray hills of Westmoreland;
but among the green hills of Jamaica, the white which he deprecates forms a welcome relief
to the splendid monotony of glowing emerald. It is not amiss to call it emerald, for there
are so many plants here with glossy leaves, that under the brilliant sunlight the lustre of
the green is almost more than the eye can bear. To the southward of Oberlin station, formerly
belonging to our mission, rises a range of verdant hills, which in some lights has so much
the pure, continuous color of a gem, as almost to realize Arabian fables to the eye. Indeed,
I have gazed at it sometimes with such a feeling as Aladdin had when the magician had left
him confined in the Hall of Jewels, and have almost wished for an earthquake to cleave its
oppressive superbness and give a refreshing sight of the blue sea beyond.

But on descending to the plains, where there is less moisture, and where vegetation therefore
is scantier, we find the unwonted forms of growth more distinct, and have the full sense of
being in a southern land. Here the thorn palms, the cactus hedges, the penguin fences, resembling
huge pineapple plants, and various trees and shrubs, being seen more isolated, make a stronger
impression of the peculiarities of tropical forms. Here too we meet in greater abundance with
the cocoanut tree, occasionally forming long avenues of lofty palms on the estates. And here
we see more frequently the huge squares of many acres, heavy with the luxuriant wealth of the
cane, and thronged by dusky laborers. The heat, which in the uplands is pleasant, though rather
too steady in the plains, becomes oppressive and enervating. The distinction between the wet
and dry seasons, also, is much more distinctly marked, and, in short, everything corresponds
more fully with the usual idea of a tropical land.

The luxuriance and the glory of nature are the same now as ever; but everywhere over the island
the traveller sees the melancholy evidences of the decay of former wealth. You may travel over
miles and miles on the plains once rich with the cane, or ridge after ridge in the uplands
once covered with the dark-green coffee plantations, which now are almost a wilderness. To
quote the language of another, 'ridges, overgrown with guava bushes, mark the cornfields; rank
vegetation fills the courtyard, and even bursts through the once hospitable roof. A curse seems
to have fallen upon the land, as if this generation were atoning for the sins of the past.
For while we lament the ruin of the present proprietors, we cannot forget the unrequited toil
which in times gone by created the wealth they have lost; nor that hapless race, the original
owners of the soil, whose fate darkens the saddest page in history.'

A passing traveller will see little to compensate the sadness occasioned by old magnificence
thus in ruins, strewing the whole island with its melancholy wrecks. What there is to set off
against it, we shall consider hereafter.

What survives of the agriculture and commerce of Jamaica is still, as formerly, mainly dependent
on the two great staples, sugar and coffee; the former being raised chiefly in the plains and
valleys, the latter in the uplands and mountains. There was, it is said, an indigenous sugar
cane in the West Indies, when first discovered; but if so, it has long been supplanted by the
Mauritius cane, which is now cultivated. The joints of the cane, being cut and laid horizontally
in furrows, which are then covered over, spring up in a crop which comes to maturity in about
a year; and when this is cut, the roots rattoon, or send up shoots for five or six years in
succession. This is one reason why Jamaica sugar planters find it so hard to compete with Cuban
production. On the deep soil of Cuba the cane rattoons, it is said, not five or six, but forty
years in succession.

The coffee plant is a beautiful shrub. Left to itself, it would grow twenty or thirty feet
high; but it is kept down to such a height as that the berries can easily be picked by the
hand. Its glossy, dark-green leaves resemble a good deal the jessamine; and the resemblance
is increased during the time of flowering, by the beautiful white blossoms, of a faint, delicate
fragrance, which are scattered over the branches like a light powdering of snow. It thrives
well in a moist air; and coffee plantations may be seen clothing the sides of mountains three,
four, and even five thousand feet above the sea. The history of the way in which coffee was
introduced to the West Indies is really quite a little romance, though an authentic one. It
is well known that Holland used to practise the most odious commercial monopoly ever known
among Christian nations. Her spice islands were guarded with a cruel jealousy rivalling the
fables of the dragon that guarded the golden apples; and her great coffee island, Java, was
equally locked up from the world. To give a spice plant or a coffee plant to a stranger, was
an offence inexorably punished with death. A single coffee plant, however, was allowed to come
to Europe as an ornament to the conservatory of a wealthy Amsterdam burgomaster. This was still
more jealously watched than its fellows in the East Indies; but at length a French visitor
managed to secrete a living berry, and, taking it with him to Paris, to raise a plant. From
this again a young plant was taken to Martinique, one of the French West Indies. When the young
stranger, freighted with such possibilities of wealth, arrived there, it was found that the
exposure of the voyage had nearly extinguished its vitality. It was tended with the most anxious
care; but for two or three years it continued to languish, and threatened by an untimely death
to give Dutch selfishness a triumph after all. At last, however, it took a happy start, and
from that plant the whole West Indies have derived their coffee. It was introduced into Jamaica
in 1720, and Temple Hall, one of the two estates which I have mentioned as being in the beautiful
valley between Kingston and the American Mission, has the honor of showing the oldest coffee
walk in the island.

Jamaica coffee is of an excellent quality; the berries, it is said, if kept two years, being
equal to the best Mocha. As some one laments that the cooks and grooms of the Romans spoke
better Latin than even Milton among the moderns could write, so I can boast in behalf of the
Jamaica negroes, that even Delmonico, unless he could secure the services of one of them who
understands the true method of reducing the browned berry to an impalpable powder, by pulverizing
it between a flat stone and a round one, must give up all hopes of presenting his guests with
the ideal cup of coffee. I would give the whole process by which an amber-colored stream, of
perfect flavor, might be poured out, without a trace of sediment, to the very last drop, did
I not reflect with pity that probably in all the wide extent of my country there is neither
the apparatus of grinding nor the sable domestic with skill to use it. Nay, even in Jamaica,
where one would think they could afford to be slow for a good thing, since they are so amazingly
slow to every good thing, I grieve to say that the barbarous mill, hacking and mangling the
fragrant berry, has almost universally supplanted the more laborious ancient method by which
it was gently reduced to its most perfect attrition, yielding up every particle of its aromatic
strength. Thus the modern demon of expedition, to whom quickness is so much more than quality,
has invaded even the slumberous repose of our fair island, bringing under his arm, not a locomotive,
but a coffee mill. There are, to be sure, two or three locomotives on the twelve-mile railway
between Kingston and Spanishtown, but it would be a cruel sarcasm to intimate that the genius
of expedition ever brought them.

There are several other vegetable products of Jamaica, which it owes likewise to a happy accident.
The mango, for instance, which now grows in such profusion on uplands and plains, that if the
groves should be cut down, the face of the country would seem naked, was a spoil of war, being
brought from a French ship destined for Martinique, somewhere about 1790. At first it is said
the mangoes sold for a guinea a piece, with the express stipulation that the seed should be
returned. Now, in a good bearing season, I have actually seen a narrow mountain road fetlock
deep with decaying mangoes, besides the thousands consumed by man and beast. During the summer,
in the good years, they furnish the main subsistence to the negro children, and a large part
of the subsistence of the adults, and make a grateful and wholesome change from the yam and
salt fish which constitute the staples of their diet the rest of the time. It is this, probably,
which has given rise to the absurd report that the negroes live principally on fruits spontaneously
growing.

The young leaves of the mango are of a brownish red; and amid the general profusion of green,
they impart a not ungrateful relief to the eye. Even their russet blossoms have a pleasant
look. But in a good season, when the fruit is ripe, the groves have a magnificently rich appearance.
Rows upon rows of yellow fruit look like lines of golden apples. Most people are extravagantly
fond of them; but for myself I must say that, excepting the superb 'No. 11'--so named from
being thus numbered on the captured French ship--and one or two other rare kinds, I concur
with the late Prof. Adams, of Amherst, in thinking that a very good mango might be made by
steeping raw cotton in turpentine, and sprinkling a little sugar over it.

Another fortuitous gift to Jamaica, so far as human intention is concerned, was the invaluable
donation of the Guinea grass. Toward a century ago some African birds were brought as a present
to a gentleman in the west of the island. Some grass seeds had been brought along for their
feed; and when they reached their journey's end, the seeds were thrown away. After a while
it was noticed that the cattle were very eager to reach the grass growing on a certain spot,
and on examination it was found that the seeds thrown away had come up as a grass of remarkable
succulence and nutritiousness. It was soon distributed, and now it is spread over the island.
You pass rich meadows of it on every lowland estate; and it clothes hundreds of hills to their
tops with its yellowish green. I do not see what the island would do without it. The pens or
grazing farms in particular have been almost wholly created by it.

Jamaica has, of course, the usual West Indian fruits, the orange, the shaddock, the lime, the
pineapple, the guava, the nispero, the banana, the cocoanut, and many others not much known
abroad. But the lusciousness of tropical fruits compares ill with the thousand delicate flavors
which cultivation has extended through our temperate clime; while, at the same time, steam
makes nearly all the best fruits of the West Indies familiar to our markets. The resident of
New York or Philadelphia, and still more of Baltimore has small occasion to wish himself in
the tropics for the sake of fruit.

The great staple of negro existence, and therefore the great staple of existence to the immense
majority of the inhabitants, is the yam. There are some indigenous kinds; but the species most
in use appear to have been brought in by the imported African slaves. This solid edible dwarfs
our potatoes, a single root varying in weight from five to ten pounds, and sometimes even reaching
the weight of fifty pounds. They are of all shapes, globular, finger shaped, and long; and
the latter, with their thick, brown rinds, look more like billets of wood, crusted with earth,
than anything else. People in this country are apt to imagine them to be a huge kind of sweet
potato, with which they have no other connection than that both are edible roots. The white
yams, boiled and mashed, are scarcely distinguishable from very superior white potatoes. Above
ground the plant is a vine, requiring to be trained on a pole, and a yamfield looks precisely
like a vineyard. But oh, the difference! while the vineyard calls up a thousand recollections
of laughing girls treading the grape, and the sunny lands of story, a yamfield reminds you
only that under the ground is a bulky esculent, which some months hence will be put into a
negro pot, and boiled and eaten, with an utter absence of poetry, or of anything but appetite
and salt. It is plain that in this case solid usefulness stands no chance with erratic and
rather loose-mannered brilliancy. And yet some kinds of yam in flower diffuse a fragrance more
exquisite, I am persuaded, than comes from any vineyard. So that, after all, their homely prose
has some flavor of poetry, which, when African poets arise, will doubtless be duly canonized
in song.

As yet the small freeholders have chiefly occupied themselves in raising these 'ground provisions,'
as yams, plantains, bananas, and the various vegetables are called. But they are more and more
largely planting cane and coffee, greatly to their own advantage and that of the island.

If in this favored zone the earth is pleasant underneath, nothing can be more glorious than
the heavens above. Being under the parallel of 18° N. lat., of course we have a full view of
all the northern heavens, and of all the southern heavens, except 18° about the South Pole.
The rarefied atmosphere gives peculiar brilliancy to the stars; and on a clear night--and most
nights are clear--the heavens are indeed flooded with white fire, while, according to the season
of the year, Orion and his northern company appear with a lustre unwonted to us, or the Scorpion
unfolds his sparkling length, or the Ship displays its glittering confusion of stars, or the
Southern Cross rears aloft its sacred symbol. Meanwhile, well down toward the northern horizon,
the pole star holds its fixed position, and the Great and the Little Bear, dipping toward the
ocean wave, but not yet dipping in it, pursue their nightly revolutions. Long after sunset,
and long before sunrise, night after night, the faint, nebulous gleam of the zodiacal lights
stretches up toward the zenith. The shortness of the twilight frequently leaves the fugacious
planet, Mercury, so seldom seen at the north, in distinct view. While Venus not merely casts
a shadow in a clear night, as she does with us, but when she is brightest, actually shines
through the clouds with an illumining power.

Alternating with these glories of the starry firmament, the moon at the full fills the lower
air with a soft, yet bright light, in which you can read without difficulty the smallest print.
Under this milder illumination, the overpowering luxuriance of the landscape loses its oppressiveness,
the hills assume more rounded forms, and from the general obscurity, the palms, a tree made
for moonlight, stand out in soft distinctness. At such a time we forget the foul crimes which
disfigure the past, and the vices which degrade the present of this fair land, and can easily
imagine ourselves in the garden where the yet unfallen progenitors of mankind walked under
a firmament 'glowing with living sapphires,' and together hymned the praises of their Creator.
Daylight chases away this illusion, but brings back the reality of Christian work, whose rugged
but cheerful tasks replace the delicious but ineffectual dreams of Paradise Lost, by the hope
of contributing, in some humble measure, toward restoring in a province of fallen earth the
lineaments of Paradise Regained.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: This was during the Crimean war.]

THE RESTORATION OF THE UNION.

God is on the side of our country. Let us reverently thank him that he has favored the general
march of our arms toward the sacred end of our exertions--the defeat of the daring attempt
against the unity of our national power and the integrity of our free institutions. Not always
in human affairs has the cause of right and freedom prevailed. In the gradual development of
human society, as unfolded in the lapse of long ages, the oppressor has generally triumphed,
and history has full often been compelled to record the failure of the noblest efforts, and
the downfall of the most righteous designs conceived for the benefit of man. Such has been
the experience of the race in those parts of the world which have longest been the theatre
of human enterprise and of established government. But the American continent seems to present
an exception to this uniformity of sinister events: it is destined to be the seat of civil
liberty. The success of our institutions in withstanding the awful trial to which they have
just been subjected, indicates the existence of providential designs toward our favored country,
not to be thwarted by any mortal agency at home or abroad. Such a combination of hostile elements,
so powerful and determined, has never before assailed any political structure without overthrowing
it. The failure in the present instance shows that our great destiny will be accomplished in
the face of all obstacles, however insurmountable they may appear to be.

Providence always accomplishes its ends by appropriate instrumentalities; and in our case there
are natural causes adequate to the great result which seems to be inevitable. In North America
the principle of equal rights and of unobstructed individual progress has become the fundamental
law of society. It is needless to trace the origin and growth of this principle; but its operation
has been so powerful and productive, so fully imbued with moral and intellectual power, so
solid and safe as a basis of national organization, as shown in the marvellous history of the
United States, that no uncongenial principle is capable of resisting it, or even of maintaining
an existence by its side. This is true not only with regard to that antagonistic principle
which is now desperately but hopelessly waging a suicidal war within the bosom of the great
republic; but it is equally true with regard to that insidious germ of despotism, which threatens
to push its way through the soil of a neighboring country, displacing the free institutions
which have long and sadly languished amid the civil wars of a most unhappy people. The same
vigorous vitality which will renew the growth of our national authority and maintain it in
the Union, will, at the same time, establish its predominant influence on the continent. Having
overborne and rooted out every opposing principle within the boundaries of our own imperial
domain, its growth will be so majestic that every unfriendly influence which may possibly have
secured a feeble foothold in its vicinity during its perilous struggle, will soon wither in
the shadow of its greatness and disappear from around it. Foreign nations may exert their sinister
authority in the Old World, and plant their peculiar institutions in that congenial soil, with
their accustomed success; but no amount of skilful manipulation will preserve these exotics
when transplanted in the American soil. The prevailing elements are not suited to their organization;
they cannot be naturalized and acclimated. This continent, with its peculiar population and
antecedents, has its own political fauna and flora, fixed by nature and destiny, which cannot
be utterly changed at the will of any human authority.

The most wicked and disastrous experiment of the age has been tried upon the grandest scale.
It was a bold undertaking to break up the American Union, and to arrest the progress of its
benign principles. To the great relief and joy of almost universal humanity, the monstrous
attempt is about to result in disgraceful failure. Yet this prodigious enterprise of destruction
was initiated under the most favorable circumstances, with the most auspicious promise for
its fatal success. The malignant envy of all the instruments of despotism throughout the whole
civilized world were brought to bear against us for the accomplishment of a work of stupendous
ruin--the annihilation of American nationality, American power, and American freedom. All the
bad, restless, retrogressive elements of our own population sought alliance with the foreign
enemies of human liberty; and, for the most selfish and detestable of all social and political
schemes, attempted to prostrate the paternal government of their country, before the expiration
of the first century of its unexampled career. Vast armies of deluded citizens, led by degenerate
sons of the republic--ingrates, educated at her own military schools--have impiously defied
her lawful authority, and sometimes assailed her with unnatural triumph over her arms; while
foreign capital, subsidized by prospective piratical plunder, has filled the ocean with daring
cruisers to destroy her commerce, and thus to weaken the right hand of her power. Feathers
from the wing of her own eagle have plumed the arrows directed at her heart; while the barb
has been steeled and sharpened by the aid of mercenary enemies in distant lands--aid purchased
by means of the robberies which have desolated one half the land. Deep and dangerous have been
the wounds inflicted on our unhappy country through this shameless combination of traitors
at home and enemies of humanity abroad; but she still stands erect, though bleeding, with her
great strength yet comparatively undiminished, and with her foot uplifted ready to be planted
on the breast of her prostrate foes. She holds aloft the glorious banner, its stars still undimmed,
and with her mild but penetrating voice, she still proclaims the principles of universal freedom
to all who may choose to claim it; and with the sublimity of the most exalted human charity,
she invites even the fallen enemy--the misguided betrayers of their country--to return to her
bosom and share the protection of her generous institutions. In the hour of her triumph she
seeks no bloody vengeance, but tenders a magnanimous forgiveness to her repenting children,
wooing them back to the shelter of re-established liberty and vindicated law. All hail to the
republic in the splendor of her coming triumph and the renewal of her beneficent power!

It has not been within the ability of reckless treason and armed rebellion to break down the
Constitution of the country and permanently destroy its institutions; so will it be as far
beyond the capacity, as it ought to be distant from the thoughts of the men now wielding the
Federal authority, to operate unauthorized changes in the fundamental law which they have solemnly
sworn to support. The strength of the people has been put forth, through the Government--their
blood has been profusely poured out, for the sole purpose of maintaining its legitimate ascendency,
and of overthrowing and removing the obstacles opposed by the hand of treason to its constitutional
action. To uphold the supremacy of the Constitution and laws, is the very object of the war;
and it would be a gross perversion of the authority conferred and a palpable misuse of the
means so amply provided by Congress, to use them for the purpose of defeating the very end
intended to be accomplished. Neither the legislative nor the executive department of the Government
could legitimately undertake to destroy or change the Constitution, from which both derive
their existence and all their lawful power. It is true that pending a war, either foreign or
civil, the Constitution itself confers extraordinary powers upon the Government--powers far
transcending those which it may properly exercise in time of peace. These war powers, however,
great as they are, and limited only by the laws of and usages civilized nations, are not extra-constitutional;
they are expressly conferred, and are quite as legitimate as those more moderate ones which
appropriately belong to the Government in ordinary times. But when there is no longer any war--when
the Government shall have succeeded in completely suppressing the rebellion--what then will
be the proper principle of action? Will not the Constitution of itself, by the simple force
of its own terms, revert to its ordinary operation, and spread its benign protection over every
part of the country? Will not all the States, returning to their allegiance, be entitled to
hold their place in the Union, upon the same footing which they held prior to the fatal attempt
at secession? These are indeed momentous questions, demanding a speedy solution.

If we say that the Federal Government may put the States upon any different footing than that
established by the existing Constitution, then we virtually abrogate that instrument which
accurately prescribes the means by which alone its provisions can be altered or amended. But,
on the other hand, if we concede the right of each State, after making war on the Union until
it is finally conquered, quietly to return and take its place again with all the rights and
privileges it held before, just as if nothing had happened in the interim, then, indeed, do
we make of the Federal Government a veritable temple of discord. We subject it to the danger
of perpetual convulsions, without the power to protect itself except by the repetition of sanguinary
wars, whenever the caprice or ambition of any State might lead her into the experiment of rebellion.
Between these two unreasonable and contradictory alternatives--the right of the Government
to change its forms, and the right of the rebellious State to assume its place in the union
without conditions--there must be some middle ground upon which both parties may stand securely
without doing violence to any constitutional principle. The Federal Government is clothed with
power, and has imposed upon it the duty, to conquer the rebellion. This is an axiom in the
political philosophy of every true Union man, and we therefore do not stop to argue a point
disputed only by the enemies of our cause. But if the Government has power to conquer the domestic
enemy in arms against it, then, as a necessary consequence, it must be the sole judge as to
when the conquest has been accomplished; in other words, it must pronounce when and in what
manner the state of internal war shall cease to exist. This implies nothing more than the right
claimed by every belligerent power, and always exercised by the conqueror--that of deciding
for itself how far the war shall be carried--what amount of restraint and punishment shall
be inflicted--what terms of peace shall be imposed. The Constitution of the United States does
not seem to contemplate the holding, by the Federal Government, of any State as a conquered
and dependent province; but in authorizing it to suppress rebellion, it confers every power
necessary to do the work effectually. It authorizes the use of the whole military means of
the Government, to be applied in the most unrestricted manner, for the destruction of the rebellious
power. If a State be in rebellion, then the State itself may be held and restrained by military
power, so long as may be necessary, in order to secure its obedience to the Federal laws and
the due performance of its constitutional obligations. It would be contradictory and wholly
destructive of the right of suppressing rebellion by military power, to admit the irreconcilable
right of the State unconditionally to assume its place in the Union, only to renew the war
at its own pleasure. Acting in good faith, the Federal Government has the undoubted right to
provide for its own security, and to follow its military measures with all those supplementary
proceedings which are usual and appropriate to this end. This principle surely cannot be questioned;
and if so, it involves everything, leaving the question one only of practical expediency and
of good faith in the choice of means.

But it is said there is and indeed can be no war between the Government and any of the States;
but only between the former, and certain rebellious individuals in the States. We are well
aware that in the ordinary operation of the Federal Government, it acts directly on individuals
and not on States. The cause of this arrangement and its purpose are well understood. But in
case of war or insurrection, the power must be coextensive with the emergency which calls it
forth. If States are actually in rebellion, then of necessity the Government must treat that
fact according to its real nature. The fiction of supposing the State to be loyal when its
citizens are all traitors, and of considering it incapable of insurrection when all its authorities
are notoriously in open rebellion, would be not less pernicious in its folly and imbecility
than it would be absurd to the common sense of mankind. Undoubtedly it may be true in some
instances, that the rebellion has usurped authority in the States. The will of the people may
have been utterly disregarded, and set aside by violence or fraud. The insurrectionary government
of the State may be only the government de facto and not de jure, using these terms with reference
only to the State and its people, and not with reference to the paramount authority of the
Union which, under all circumstances, deprives the insurrectionary State organization of any
legal character whatever. In all cases of such usurped authority, the people of the States
would have the unquestionable right to be restored to the Union upon the terms of their recent
connection, without any conditions whatever. It would be the solemn duty of the United States
to defend each one of its members from the violence which might thus have overthrown its legitimate
government. But, on the other hand, when the people of the States themselves have inaugurated
the insurrectionary movement and have voluntarily sustained it in its war upon the Government,
then no such favor can reasonably be claimed for them. If excitement and delusion have suddenly
hurried them into rebellion against their better judgments and their real inclinations, they
are to be pitied for their misfortune, and ought to be treated with great leniency and favor;
but they cannot claim exemption from those conditions which may be imperatively demanded for
the future security and tranquillity of the country.

If by possibility there might be some technical legal difficulty in this view, there would
be none whatever of a practical nature; for any mind gifted with the most ordinary endowment
of reason would not fail to be impressed with the gross inconsistency and inequality of holding
that rebels may not only set aside the Constitution at their will and make war for its destruction,
but may set it up again and claim its protection; while its defenders and faithful asserters
must be held to such strict and impracticable regard for its provisions that they may not take
the precautions necessary to preserve it, even in the emergency of putting down a rebellion
against it. Such an irrational predicament of constitutional difficulties and political contradictions
would soon necessitate its own solution. The revolution on the one side would induce a similar
revolutionary movement on the other; attempted destruction by violence would justify the measures
necessary to the restoration of the Government and to its permanent security in the future.
There would be little hesitation in adopting these measures in spite of any doubt as to their
regularity. The public safety would be acknowledged as the supreme law, and they who had placed
themselves in the attitude of public enemies could not complain of the rigid application of
its requirements to them.

The most inveterate of the rebels certainly do not anticipate the relaxation of this principle.
They are careful to make known to the Southern people the impossibility of returning to the
Union, except upon such conditions as may be prescribed by the conquering power. It is true
they do this to deter their followers from indulging the thought of any restoration of their
former Federal relations; but this fact of itself shows their consciousness of the justice
of the position. They have betrayed their people into a situation from which they cannot reasonably
hope to escape without making important concessions to the Federal Government. Their effort
now is to convince the misguided population of the South that the required concessions will
be more intolerable than the indefinite continuance of a hopeless and destructive civil war.

There is no necessity, however, to go beyond the limits of the Constitution; nor is there any
reason to believe that the Government, in any event, will be disposed to exact terms inconsistent
with the true spirit of our institutions. A great danger, such as now threatens our country,
might, in some circumstances, justify a revolution, altering even the fundamental laws, for
the purpose of preserving our national unity. The justification would depend upon the nature
of the circumstances--the extremity and urgency of the peril; and the change would be recognized
and defended as the result of violence, irregular and revolutionary. At a more tranquil period,
in the absence of danger and excitement, it would be practicable to return to the former principles
of political action; or, in case of necessity, the sanction of the people might be obtained
in the forms prescribed by the Constitution, and the change found necessary in the revolutionary
period would either be approved and retained, modified, or altogether rejected.

But fortunately no constitutional obstacle whatever stands in the way of making such stipulations
as may be appropriate between the Federal Government and the States; nor would they at all
imply any admission of the right of secession, or of the actual efficacy of the attempted withdrawal
from the Union. On the contrary, any agreement with the State would, ex vi termini, admit the
integrity of its organization under the Constitution. Special agreements are usually made whenever
a new State is admitted into the Union; and as all the States, old and new, stand upon an equal
footing, there can be nothing in the ordinances usually adopted by the new States, conflicting
with the principles on which the Government is organized. The States are prohibited from making
'any agreement or compact' with each other, without the consent of the Federal Government;
but there is no prohibition against making such agreements with the Federal Government itself.
What the new States may do upon entering the Union, the old States may do at any time upon
the same conditions This principle was settled upon the admission of Texas into the Union;
it has been sanctioned in many other instances; and we are not aware that there is or can be
any question of its soundness. Surely, if there could ever be an occasion proper for a solemn
compact between the General Government and any of the separate States, it will be found at
the conclusion of this unhappy war, when it will be necessary to heal the wounds of the country,
and provide for its permanent peace and security. To quell an insurrection so extensive, involving
so many States in its daring treason, especially when it has assumed an organized form and
been recognized not only by other nations but even by ourselves, as a belligerent entitled
to the rights of war, implies the necessity, in addition to the annihilation of its armies
and all its warlike resources, of removing the causes of its dissatisfaction, and destroying
its means of exciting disturbance. The Government is by no means bound unconditionally to recognize
the old relations of States which, as such, have taken part in the rebellion; which have themselves
repudiated all their constitutional rights and obligations; and which may again, at any time,
renew the war, from the same impulse and for the same cause. On the contrary, the close of
the disastrous contest will be a most favorable opportunity for compelling the conquered insurrection
to submit to terms such as will deprive it of all capacity for similar mischief in the future.
The insurrection will not be effectually suppressed unless its active principle is destroyed.
Nothing can be plainer than the right and the solemn duty of the Government in this great emergency.

Supposing these principles to be admitted, there still remains for determination the most important
question as to the nature of the conditions which ought to be exacted of the returning States--a
problem of the most difficult character, involving the most delicate of all considerations,
and demanding for its solution the highest practical statesmanship and the most profound wisdom,
based upon moderation, firmness, liberality, and justice. In this problem several elements
exist in complicated combination, and each one of these must be fairly considered in the adjustment
whenever it may be made. The measures of safety which the Government has been compelled to
adopt in the progress of the war, and to which it may be committed without recall; the condition
of the rebellious States, and their demands and propositions; and finally, the interests, rights,
and just expectations of the African race, which has become so intimately involved in this
terrible strife--all these must be weighed accurately in the scales of truth, and with the
impartial hand of disinterested patriotism. No mere partisan considerations, no promptings
of selfish ambition, and no miserable sectional enmities or fierce desires for revenge, ought
to be allowed to mingle with our thoughts and feelings when we approach this great subject
of restoring peace and harmony to the people and States of this mighty republic. Awful will
be the responsibility of those men in authority, who shall fail to rise to the height of this
momentous emergency in the history of our country--who shall be wanting in the courage, the
purity, the magnanimity necessary to save the nation from disunion and anarchy.

What ought to be the conditions upon which the rebellious States are to be reëstablished in
their old relations, it is perhaps premature now to attempt to determine. The war is not yet
closed, although we are sufficiently sanguine to believe that we have already seen 'the beginning
of the end.' But the still nearer approach of the final acts in the great drama will give a
mighty impetus to events, and many great changes will be wrought in the condition of the Southern
people, and in their feelings toward the Union, against which too many of them are still breathing
hate and vengeance. They have scarcely yet been sufficiently chastened even by the fiery ordeal
through which they have been compelled to pass. Every day, however, increases the bitterness
of the scourge under which they suffer, and if it does not avail to humble them, it tends at
least to convince them, in their hearts, of the terrible mistake into which they have been
led. We may well hope and believe that the masses of the people will soon be brought to that
rational frame of mind which will incline them to acknowledge the irresistible exigencies of
their situation, and to make those concessions that may be found indispensable to peace and
union. As we approach the moment of decisive action, experience will teach us the solemn duty
devolving upon us. While we may not at present anticipate fully what will then be necessary,
we can nevertheless determine some few principles of a general nature which must control the
adjustment.

We will be compelled to consider not only the duty which the Government owes the people, in
the matter of their own permanent security, but also the obligations it has assumed, the promises
it has made, and the hopes it has excited in the bondsmen of the rebellious States. There must
be good faith toward the black man. It would be infamous to have incited him to escape from
slavery only to remand him again, upon the restoration of the Union, to the tender mercies
of his master. What differences of opinion may have existed in the beginning as to the legality
and policy of the Proclamation and of employing the liberated slaves as soldiers, the Government
and people are too far committed in this line of action to be able now to withdraw without
dishonour and foul injustice. Many of the consequences of the war may be remedied, and even
the last vestiges of them obliterated. Cities may be rebuilt, desolated fields made to bloom
again with prosperity, and commerce may return to its old channels with even increased activity
and volume. Many wounds may be healed, and may separations may be brought to an end by the
renewal of friendships broken by the war; but the separation of the slave from his mater, so
far as it has been caused by any action of the Government, can never be remedied. That must
be an eternal separation, resting for its security upon the humanity as well as the honor of
the American people. What! Shall we restore the States unconditionally, and permit the fugitive
slave law again to operate as it did before the rebellion? Shall we consent to see the men
whom we have invited away from the South dragged back into slavery tenfold more severe by reason
of our act inducing them to escape? This is plainly impossible. Argument is wholly out of place;
felling and conscience revolt at the very idea. It may be admitted that this question, with
its peculiar complications, presents the most difficult and dangerous of all problems; but
there is no alternative: we must meet and solve it at the close of this rebellion. We have
to combat the selfish interests of a class still powerful, aided by the great strength of a
popular prejudice almost universal. The emergency will require the exertion of all our wisdom
and all our energy.

The vast body of slaves in the South have not yet been incited to action, either by the movements
of our armies or by the potency of the Proclamation. Whether they will be, and to what extent,
depends upon the continuance of the war, and its future progress. The result in this particular
remains to be seen, and cannot now be anticipated. What legal effect the measures of the Government
may have upon the slaves remaining in the South would be a question for the decision of the
courts; and doubtless most of them would be entitled to liberation as the penalty of the treason
of their masters, who may have participated in the rebellion. But it is well worthy of consideration
whether it would not be wise and better for all parties, including the slaves, to commute this
penalty by a compact with the States for the gradual emancipation of the slaves remaining at
the time of the negotiation. The sudden and utter overthrow of the existing organization of
labor and capital in those States, coming in addition to the awful devastation which the war
has produced, will deal a disastrous blow, not alone to those unfortunate States, but to the
commerce and industry of the whole country.

But neither the Government of the United States alone, nor this together with the Africans,
liberated and unliberated, can prescribe their own requirements, as the law of the emergency,
without reference to other great interests involved. The question must necessarily be controlled
by the sum of all the political elements which enter into it. It is desirable to restore the
States to the Union with as little dissatisfaction as possible, and even with all the alleviation
which can properly be afforded to the misfortunes of the people who have so sadly erred in
their duty to themselves and to their country. After any settlement--the most favorable that
can be made--heavy will be the punishment inflicted by the great contest upon the unhappy population
of the rebellious region. In many things, it is true, they will suffer only in common with
the people of all the States; but they will also have their own peculiar misfortunes in addition
to the common burdens. A generous Government, in the hour of its triumph, will seek to lessen
rather than to aggravate their misfortunes, even though resulting from their crimes. Having
received them back into the bosom of the Union, it will do so heartily and magnanimously, yielding
everything which does not involve a violation of principle, and endanger the future tranquillity
of the country. The harmony of the States, their homogeneity, and their general progress in
all that contributes to the greatness and happiness of communities, ought to be, and doubtless
will be, the benign object of the Government in the settlement of the existing difficulty.
If these high purposes necessarily require in their development a provision for the rapid disappearance
of slavery, the requirement will not arise from any remaining hostility to the returning States;
on the contrary, it will look to their own improvement and prosperity, quite as much as to
the peace and security of the whole country. The day will yet arrive when these States themselves
will gratefully acknowledge that all the sacrifices of the war will be fully compensated by
the advantages of that great and fundamental change, which they will undoubtedly now accept
only with the utmost reluctance and aversion.

Hiram was never in serious difficulty before.

When he came carefully to survey the situation, he felt greatly embarrassed, and in real distress.
To understand this, you have only to recollect what value he placed on church membership. In
this he was perfectly sincere. He felt, too, as he afterward expressed it to Mr. Bennett, that
he had not 'acted just right toward Emma Tenant,' but he had not the least idea the matter
could possibly become a subject of church discipline. The day for such extraordinary supervision
over one's private affairs had gone by, it is true, but Dr. Chellis, roused and indignant,
would no doubt revive it on this occasion.

Hiram had absented himself the first Sunday after his interview with his clergyman, but on
the following he ventured to take his accustomed seat. The distant looks and cold return to
his greeting which he received from the principal members of the congregation, were unmistakable.
Even the female portion, with whom he was such a favorite, had evidently declared against him.

He had gone too far.

However, he went into Sunday school, and took his accustomed seat with the class under his
instruction. It was the first time he had been with it since he left town to attend on his
mother. The young gentleman who had assumed a temporary charge of this class, which was one
of the finest in the school, shook hands with cool politeness with Hiram, but did not offer
to yield the seat. The latter, already nervous and ill at ease by reason of his reception among
his acquaintances, did not dare assume his old place, lest he should be told he had been superseded.
He contented himself with greeting his pupils, who appeared glad to see him, and sitting quietly
by while they recited their lesson. Then, taking advantage of the few moments remaining, he
gave them a pathetic account of the loss of his mother, and exhorted them all to honor and
obey their parents. In the afternoon he did not go back to church, but went to hear Dr. Pratt,
the clergyman who, the reader may recollect, had been recommended by Mr. Bennett on Hiram's
first coming to new York. Our hero was not at all pleased with this latter gentleman. The fact
is, to a person of Hiram's subtle intellect, a man like Dr. Chellis was a thousand times more
acceptable than a milk-and-water divine.

From Dr. Pratt's, Hiram proceeded to his room, to take a careful survey of his position, and,
as we said at the beginning of the chapter, he found himself in serious difficulty, greatly
embarrassed and in real distress. He could not join another church, for a letter had been formally
refused from his own. He could not remain where he was, for the feeling there was too strong
against him, besides, evidently, Dr. Chellis was determined to institute damaging charges against
him. He thought of attempting to make friends with Mr. and Mrs. Tenant, and humbly asking them
to intercede for him, but the recollection of his last interview with Mrs, Tenant discouraged
any hope of success. Emma, alas! was away, far away, else he would go and appeal to her--not
to reinstate him as her accepted, but--to aid him to get right with Dr. Chellis. Such were
some of the thoughts that went through his brain as he sat alone by his open window quite into
the twilight. He felt worse and worse. Prayer did not help him, and every chapter which he
read in the Bible added to his misery. At last it occurred to him to step to his cousin's house,
not far distant, and talk the whole matter over there.

Although Mr. Bennett's family were out of town during the summer, he was obliged to remain
most of the season, on account of his business. Up to this time he had not mentioned the fact
of the breaking his engagement; indeed, he had avoided the subject whenever the two had met,
because he knew he was wrong, and there was something about Mr. Bennett, notwithstanding his
keen, shrewd, adroit mercantile habits, which was very straightforward and aboveboard, and
which Hiram disliked to encounter. Besides, he had always been praised by his cousin for his
tact and management, and he felt exceedingly mortified at being obliged to confess himself
cornered. But something must be done, and that speedily. Yes, he would go and consult him.
Hiram took his hat and walked slowly to Mr. Bennett's house. He found him extended on a sofa
in his front parlor, quite alone and in the dark, enjoying apparently with much zest a fine
Havana segar. It was by its light that Hiram was enabled to discover the smoker.

'Why, Hiram, is it you? Glad to see you!'--so his greeting ran. 'Didn't know you ever went
out Sunday evenings except to church. Take a segar--oh, you don't smoke. It's deuced lonesome
here without the folks. Must try and get off for a week or two myself. Why didn't I think to
ask you to come and stay with me? Well, we will have some light on the occasion, and a cup
of tea.' And he rose to ring the bell.

'Not just yet, if you please,' said Hiram, checking the other. 'I want to have some conversation
with you, and I need your advice. I am in trouble.'

By a singular coincidence, these were the very words which Mr. Tenant employed when he went
to consult his friend Dr. Chellis. As Hiram differed totally from Mr. Tenant, so did the drygoods
jobbing merchant from the Doctor. Both were first-rate advisers in their way: the Doctor in
a humane and noble sort, after his kind; the merchant in a shrewd, adroit, quick-witted, fertile
manner, after his kind.

Mr. Bennett and Hiram both sat on the sofa, even as the Doctor and Mr. Tenant had sat together.
It was quite dark, as I have said, and this gave Hiram a certain advantage in telling his story,
for he dreaded his cousin's scrutinizing glance.

Mr. Bennett was much alarmed at Hiram's announcement. 'In trouble?' What could that mean but
financial disaster?

'I was afraid he would speculate too much,' said Mr. Bennett to himself; 'but how could he
have got such a blow as this? I saw him the day after his return, and he said everything had
gone well in his absence.'

He settled himself, however, resolutely to hear the worst, and, to his praise be it spoken,
fully determined to do what he could to aid the young man in his difficulties.

Hiram was brief in his communication. When he chose, he could go as straight to the point as
any one. He did not attempt to gloss over his story, but put his cousin in possession of the
facts pretty much as the reader understands them.

It is doubtful if Mr. Bennett was much relieved by the communication. Indeed, I think he would
have preferred to have some pecuniary tangle out of which to extricate his cousin. In fact,
it was impossible for him to suppress a feeling of contempt, not to say disgust, at Hiram's
conduct. For, worldly minded as he was, It was what he never would have been guilty of. Indeed,
it so happened that Mr. Bennett had actually married his wife under circumstances quite similar,
three months after her father's failure, and one month after his death; so that where be expected
a fortune, he had taken a portionless wife and her widowed mother. What is more, he did it
cheerfully, and was, as he used to say, the happiest fellow in the world in consequence. It
would have been singular, therefore, if while hearing Hiram's story he had not recurred to
his own history. In indulging his contempt for him, he unconsciously practised an innocent
self-flattery.

He did not immediately reply after Hiram concluded, but waited for this feeling to subside,
and for the old worldly leaven to work again.

'A nice mess you're in,' he said, at length, 'and all from not seeking my advice in time. Do
you know, Hiram, you made a great mistake in giving up that girl? I'm not talking of any matter
of affection or sentiment or happiness, or about violating pledges and promises. That is your
own affair, and I've nothing to do with it. I have often told you that you have much to learn
yet, and here is a tremendous blunder to prove it. The connection would have been as good as
a hundred thousand dollars cash capital, if the girl hadn't a cent. That clique is a powerful
one, and they all hang together. Mark my words: they won't let the old man go under, and it
would have been a fortune to you to have stood by him. You've taken a country view of this
business, Hiram. There every man tries to pull his neighbor down. Here, we try to build one
another up.'

'You are doubtless correct,' replied Hiram, 'but the mischief is done, and I want you to help
me remedy it. If you can't aid me, nobody can.'

Mr. Bennett was not insensible to the compliment.

'Certainly, certainly,' he answered, 'you know you can count on me. I have always told you
that you could, and I meant what I said. But you must permit me to point out your mistakes,
and I tell you you should have asked my advice in this affair.'

'Very true.'

'You think Dr. Chellis won't yield?'

'I am sure of it.'

Mr. Bennett sat fixed in thought for at least five minutes, during which time, I am inclined
to think, Hiram's countenance, could it have been seen through the darkness, would have been
a study for an artist. For it doubtless exhibited (because it could not be seen) his actual
feelings and anxieties. He was startled at last into an exclamation of fright by receiving
an unexpected slap on his shoulder, which came from Mr. Bennett, who, rising at that moment,
gave this as a token of having arrived at a happy solution of the difficulty. In this respect
he was as abrupt as Dr. Chellis had been with his friend.

'The thing is settled. There is but one course to pursue, and you must take it. I will explain
when we can have more light on the subject, to say nothing of our cup of tea.'

He rang the bell, the parlor was lighted, and tea served, when Mr. Bennett again broke the silence.

'Hiram,' he said, abruptly, 'you must quit the Presbyterian church.'

Hiram's heart literally stopped beating. He turned deadly pale.

Mr. Bennett perceived it. 'Don't be frightened,' he said. 'You have made a great mistake, and
I would help you repair it. I repeat, you must quit the Presbyterian church, and you must join
ours. You must indeed,' he continued, seeing Hiram look undecided.

'Does it teach the true salvation?' asked Hiram, doubtingly.

'How can you ask such a question?' replied Mr. Bennett, in a severe tone; 'are we not in the
apostolic line? Are not the ordinances administered by a clergy whose succession has never
been broken? You--you Presbyterians, may possibly be saved by the grace of God, but you have
really no church, no priesthood, no ordinances. We won't discuss this. I will introduce you
to our clergyman, and you shall examine the subject for yourself. Perhaps you don't know it,
Hiram, but I have been confirmed; yes, I was confirmed last spring. When I had that fit of
sickness in the winter, I thought more about these matters than I ever did before, and I came
to the conclusion that it was my duty to be confirmed. I have felt much more comfortable ever
since, I assure you. My wife, you know, is a strict churchwoman. She and you will agree first
rate if you come with us. For my part, I don't pretend to be so very exact. I believe in the
spirit more than the letter, and our clergyman don't find any fault with me. What say you,
will you call on him? If yes, I will open up a little plan which I have this moment concocted
for your particular benefit. But you must first become a churchman.

Hiram sat stupefied, horrified, in a trance, in a maze. Cast loose from his church, within
whose pale he was accustomed to think salvation could only be found, the possibility that there
might be hope for him in another quarter nearly took away his senses. He had been accustomed
to regard the Episcopalians as little better than Papists, and they were the veritable children
of wrath. Could he have been mistaken? He was now willing to hope so. It could certainly do
no harm to confer with the clergyman. He would hear what he had to say, and then judge for
himself, and so he told his cousin.

'All right; you talk like a sensible man. Now, Hiram, between us two, I am going to find you
a wife.'

Hiram started. His pulse began again to beat naturally.

'Yes, I have found you a wife, that is, if you will do as I advise you, instead of following
your own head. I tell you what it is, Hiram; you're green in these matters.'

Hiram smiled an incredulous smile, and asked, in a tone which betrayed a good deal of interest,
'Who is the young lady?'

'Never mind who she is until you come over to us. Then my wife shall introduce you. But I'll
tell you this much, Hiram: she has a clear two hundred thousand dollars--no father, no mother,
already of age, in our first society, and very aristocratic.'

'Is she pious?' asked Hiram, eagerly.

'Excessively so. Fact is, she is the strictest young woman in the church in--Lent. She belongs
to all the charitable societies, and gives away I don't know how much.'

'Humph,' responded Hiram. The last recommendation did not seem specially to take with him.
Still his eyes glistened at the recital. He could not resist asking several questions about
the young lady, but Mr. Bennett was firm, and would not communicate further till Hiram's decision
was made.

Thus conversing, they fell into a pleasant mood, and so the evening wore away. When Hiram rose
to leave, he found it was nearly midnight. His cousin insisted he should remain with him, and
Hiram was glad to accept the invitation. He did not feel like returning to his solitary room
with his mind unsettled and his feelings discomposed.

In a most confidential mood the two walked up stairs together, and Mr. Bennett bade Hiram good
night in a tone so cheerful that the latter entered his room quite reassured. He proceeded,
as was his habit, to read a chapter in the Bible, but his teeth chattered when, on opening
the volume, he discovered it to be--the prayer book!--something he had been accustomed to hold
in utter abomination. He controlled his feelings sufficiently to glance through the book, and
at last, selecting a chapter from the Psalter, he perused it and retired. He dreamed that he
was married to the rich girl, and had the two hundred thousand dollars safe in his possession.
And so real did this seem that he woke in the morning greatly disappointed to find himself
minus so respectable a sum.

'I must not lose the chance,' said Hiram to himself, as he jumped out of bed. 'With that amount
in cash I would teach all South street a lesson. I wonder if this is the true church after
all;' and he took up the prayer book this time without fear, as if determined to find out.

He spent some time in reading the prayers, and confessed to himself that they were quite unobjectionable.
Mr. Bennett's warning that there was no certainty of salvation, out of the church (i.e. his
church) was not without its effect. As Hiram sought religion for the purpose of security on
the other side, you can readily suppose any question of the validity of his title would make
him very nervous; once convinced of his mistake, he would hasten to another church, just as
he would change his insurance policies, when satisfied of the insolvency of the company which
had taken his risks.

After breakfast Hiram renewed the subject of the last night's conversation, and Mr. Bennett
was pleased to find that his views were already undergoing a decided change.

'Now, Hiram,' he exclaimed, 'if you do come over to us, it's no reason you should join my church.
You may not like our clergyman. You know, when you first came to New York, I recommended you
to join Dr. Pratt's congregation instead of Dr. Chellis's; but you wanted severe preaching,
and you have had it. Now there are similar varieties among the Episcopalians. Dr. Wing, though
a strict churchman, will give you sharp exercise, if you listen to him. He will handle you
without gloves. He is fond of using the sword of the spirit, and you had best stand from under,
or he will cleave you through and through. My clergyman, Mr. Myrtle, is a very different man.
He believes in the gospel as a message of peace and love, and his sermons are beautiful. One
feels so safe and happy to hear him discourse of the mercy of God, and the joys of heaven.'

'Nevertheless,' replied Hiram, stoutly, 'I hold to my old opinion, and I confess I prefer such
a preacher as Dr. Wing to one like Mr. Myrtle. But under existing circumstances I shall go
with you.'

He was thinking about the splendid match Mr. Bennett had hinted at.

'I am glad to hear you say so,' said Mr. Bennett; 'it will bring us more frequently together.
You have a brilliant future, if you will listen to me; but it won't do to make another blunder,
such as you have just committed.'

'I suppose you will tell me now about that young lady?' asked Hiram, with an interest he could
not conceal.

'Not one word, not one syllable,' replied the other, good humoredly, 'until you are actually
within the pale. Don't be alarmed,' he continued, seeing Hiram look disappointed. 'To tell
you would not do the least good, and might frustrate my plans. But I will work the matter for
you, my boy, if it is a possible thing; and for my part I see no difficulty in it. When my
family come in town we will organize. Meantime let me ask, have you learned to waltz?'

'To waltz?' exclaimed Hiram, in horror. 'No. I don't even know how to dance; I was taught to
believe it sinful. As to waltzing, how can you ask me if I practise such a disgusting, such
an immoral style of performance, invented by infidel German students to give additional zest
to their orgies.'

'Did Dr. Chellis tell you that,' said Mr. Bennett, with something like a sneer.

'No; I read it in the Christian Herald.'

'I thought so. Dr. Chellis has too much sense to utter such stuff.'

'Does Mr. Myrtle approve of waltzing?' inquired Hiram, with a groan.

'Hiram, don't be a goose. Of course, Mr. Myrtle does not exactly approve of it. That is, he
don't waltz himself, his wife don't waltz, and his children are not old enough; but he does
not object to any 'rational amusement,' and he leaves his congregation to decide what is rational.'

'Well, I shall not waltz, that's certain.'

'Yes you will, too. The girl you are to marry--the girl who has a clear two hundred thousand
in her own right--she waltzes, and you have got to waltz.'

Hiram's head swam, as if already giddy in the revolving maze; but it was the thought of the
two hundred thousand dollars, nothing else, which turned his brain. The color in his face went
and came; he hesitated.

'I will think of it,' at last he ejaculated.

'Of course you will,' cried Mr. Bennett, 'of course you will, and decide like a sensible man
afterward, not like an idiot; but you must decide quick, for I must put you in training for
the fall campaign.'

'What do you mean?'

'Why, simply this; the girl will not look at you unless you are a fashionable fellow--don't
put on any more wry faces, but think of the prize--and I must have you well up in all the accomplishments.
For the rest, you are what I call, a finely-formed, good-looking, and rather graceful fellow,
if you are my cousin.'

Hiram's features relaxed.

'When can I call on Mr. Myrtle?' he asked.

'Not for several weeks. He is taking a longer vacation than usual. However, come with me every
Sunday, and you will hear Mr. Strang, our curate, who officiates in Mr. Myrtle's absence. A
most excellent man, and a very fair preacher.'

'Have you a Sunday school connected with the church?'

'Do you think we are heathen, Hiram? Have we a Sunday school? I should suppose so! What is
more, the future Mrs. Meeker is one of the teachers,'

'Yet she waltzes?'

'Yet she waltzes.'

'Well, I hope I shall understand this better by and by.'

'Certainly you will.'

The two proceeded down town to their business.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a very few days after, Hiram Meeker was the pupil--the private pupil--of Signor Alberto,
dancing master to the aristocracy of the town. [That is not what he called himself, but I wish
to be intelligible.] Alberto had directions to perfect his pupil in every step practised in
the world of fashion. Hiram proved an apt and ready scholar. He gave this new branch of education
the same care and assiduity that he always practised in everything he undertook. Mr. Bennett
was not out of the way in praising his parts. Signor Alberto was delighted with his pupil.
His rapid progress was a source of great pleasure to the master. To be sure, he could not get
on quite as well as if he had consented to go in with a class; but this Hiram would not think
of. Still the matter was managed without much difficulty, as the Signor could always command
supernumeraries.

When it came to the waltz, Alberto was kind enough to introduce to Hiram a young lady--a friend
of his--who, he said, was perfectly familiar with every measure; and who would, as a particular
favor, take the steps with him, under the master's special direction. It took Hiram's breath
away, poor fellow, to be thrown so closely into the embraces of such a fine-looking, and by
no means diffident damsel. It was what he had not been accustomed to. True, he had been in
the habit at one time of playing the flirt, of holding the girls' hands in his, and pressing
them significantly, and sighing and talking sentimental nonsense; but here the tables were
turned. Hiram was the bashful one, and the young lady apparently the flirt. She explained,
with, tantalizing nonchalance, how he ought to take a more encircling hold of her waist. She
illustrated practically the different methods--close waltzing, medium waltzing, and waltzing
at arms' length. She would waltz light and heavy--observing to Hiram that he might on some
occasion have an awkward partner, and it was well to be prepared.

To better explain, the young lady would become the gentleman; and in whirling Hiram round,
she exhibited a strength and vigor truly astonishing.

All the while Hiram, with quick breath, and heightened color, and whirling brain, was striving
hard and failing fast to keep his wits about him. What was most annoying of all, the young
lady, though so accommodating and familiar as a partner to practise with under the master's
eye, when the exercise was over appeared perfectly and absolutely indifferent to Hiram. She
was quite insensible to every little byplay of his to attract her notice, which, as he advanced
in her acquaintance, he began to practice before the lesson commenced, or after it was finished.
The fact is, whoever or whatever she might be, she evidently held Hiram in great contempt as
a greenhorn. Strange to say, for once all his powers of fascination failed; and the more he
tried to call them forth, the more signal was his discomfiture. It does not appear that Hiram,
after finishing his education with Signor Alberto, attempted to continue his acquaintance with
his partner in the waltz. Once during the course he did ask the young lady where she lived,
and intimated that he would be pleased to call and see her; but the observation was received
with such evident signs of dissatisfaction, that he never renewed the subject, and it is doubtful
if he ever explained to himself satisfactorily his failure to get in the good graces of such
a handsome girl and so perfect a waltzer.

CHAPTER X.

The Rev. Augustus Myrtle, rector of St. Jude's, was one of those circumstances of nature which
are only to be encountered in metropolitan life. This seems a paradox. I will explain. All
his qualities were born with him, not acquired, and those qualities could only shine in the
aristocratic and fashionable circles of a large city. As animals by instinct avoid whatever
is noxious and hurtful, so Augustus Myrtle from his infancy by instinct avoided all poor people
and all persons not in the 'very first society.'

Children are naturally democrats; school is a great leveller. Augustus Myrtle recognized no
such propositions. While a boy at the academy, while a youth in college, he sought the intimacy
of boys and youths of rich persons of ton. It was not enough that a young fellow was well bred
and had a good social position--he must be rich. It was not enough that he was rich--he must
have position.

I do not think that Augustus Myrtle sat down carefully to calculate all this. So I say it was
instinctive--born with him. A person who frequents only the society of the well bred and the
wealthy must, to a degree at least, possess refined and elegant and expensive tastes, and it
was so in the case of Myrtle. His tastes were refined and elegant and expensive.

His parents were themselves people of respectability, but very poor. His mother used to say
that her son's decided predilections were in consequence of her unfortunate state of mind the
season Augustus was born, when poverty pinched the family sharply. Mr. Myrtle was a man of
collegiate education, with an excellent mind, but totally unfitted for active life. The result
was, after marrying a poor girl, who was, however, of the 'aristocracy,' he became, through
the influence of her friends, the librarian of the principal library in a neighboring city,
with a fair salary, on which, with occasional sums received for literary productions, he managed
to bring up and support his small family. At times, when some unexpected expenses had to be
incurred, as I have hinted, poverty seemed to poor Mrs. Myrtle a very great hardship, and such
was their situation the year Augustus was born.

He was the only son, and the hope of the parents centred on him. It was settled that he should
be sent to the best schools and to a first-class college. He had, perhaps, rather more than
ordinary ability, the power to display to the best advantage the talents and acquirements he
did possess, together with attractive manners, which, though reserved, were pleasing. He was
slight, gracefully formed, and a little above the ordinary height. He had a dark complexion,
a face thin and colorless, with fine, large, black eyes.

When I say Augustus Myrtle sought only the intimacy of the rich and well bred, you must not
suppose he was a toady, or practised obsequiously. Not at all. He mingled with his associates,
assuming to be one of them--their equal. True, his want of money led to desperate economical
contrivances behind the scenes, but on the stage he betrayed by no sign that affairs did not
flow as smoothly with him as with his companions. In all this, he had in his mother great support
and encouragement. Her relations were precisely of the stamp Augustus desired to cultivate,
and this gave him many advantages. As usually happens, he found what he sought. By the aid
of the associations he had formed with so much assiduity, to say nothing of his own personal
recommendations, he married a nice girl, the only child of a widowed lady in the right 'set'
and with sixty thousand dollars, besides a considerable expectancy on the mother's decease.
Shortly after, he became rector of St. Jude's, the most exclusive 'aristocratic' religious
establishment in New York.

At this present period, the Rev. Augustus Myrtle was but thirty-five, and, from his standing
and influence, he considered it no presumption to look forward to the time when he should become
bishop of the diocese.

His health was excellent, if we may except some very slight indications of weakness of the
larynx, which had been the cause of his making two excursions to Europe, each of six months'
duration, which were coupled with an appropriation of twenty-five hundred dollars by his indulgent
congregation to pay expenses.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Mr. Myrtle and his family were still absent, Hiram had made very sensible progress in
mastering the mysteries of the Episcopal form of worship, and became fully versed in certain
doctrinal points, embracing all questions of what constitutes a 'church' and a proper 'succession.'
His investigations were carried on under the direction of the Rev. Mr. Strang, a man of feeble
mind (Mr. Myrtle was careful to have no one near him unless the contrast was to his advantage),
but a worthy and conscientious person, who believed he was doing Heaven service in bringing
Hiram into the fold of the true church. Hiram was again in his element as an object of religious
interest. Before the rector had returned, he became very impatient to see him. It was a long
while since he had been at communion, and he began to fear his hold on heaven would be weakened
by so long an absence from that sacrament. Besides, he felt quite prepared and ready to be
confirmed.

The Myrtles returned at last. In due time, Mrs. Bennett talked the whole matter over with Mrs.
Myrtle. Hiram was represented as 'a very rich young merchant, destined to be a leading man
in the city--of an ancient and honorable New England family--very desirable in the church--a
cousin'--[here several sentences were uttered in a whisper, accompanied by nods and signs significant,
which I shall never be able to translate]--'must secure him--ripe for it now.'

I think I forgot to say that Mrs. Myrtle and Mrs. Bennett were in the same 'set' as young ladies,
and were very intimate.

The nest day Mrs. Bennett opened the subject to Mr. Myrtle, his wife having duly prepared him.
The object was to introduce Hiram into the church in the most effective manner. This could
only be done through the instrumentality of the reverend gentleman himself. Everything went
smoothly. Mr. Myrtle was not insensible to the value of infusing new and fresh elements into
his congregation.

'Of course,' he observed, 'this wealthy young man will take an entire pew.' (The annual auction
of rented pews was soon to come off, and Mr. Myrtle liked marvellously to see strong competition.
It spoke well for the church.)

'He will purchase a pew, if a desirable one can be had,' answered Mrs. Bennett.

'Oh, that is well. How fortunate! The Winslows are going to Europe to reside, and I think will
sell theirs. One of the best in the church. Pray ask Mr. Bennett to look after it.'

'Thank you. How very considerate, how very thoughtful! We will see to it at once.'

The interview ended, after some further conversation, in a manner most satisfactory.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a magnificent autumnal afternoon, the second week of October, when Hiram Meeker, by
previous appointment, called at the residence of the Rev. Augustus Myrtle. The house was built
on to the church, so as to correspond in architecture, and exhibited great taste in exterior
as well as interior arrangement. Hiram walked up the steps and boldly rang the bell. He had
improved a good deal in some respects since his passage at arms with Dr. Chellis, and while
under the auspices of Mr. Bennett. He had laid aside the creamy air he used so frequently to
assume, and had hardened himself, so to speak, against contingencies. I was saying he marched
boldly up and rang the bell.

A footman in unexceptionable livery opened the door. Mr. Myrtle was engaged, but on Hiram's
sending in his name, he was ushered into the front parlor, and requested to sit, and informed
that Mr. Myrtle would see him in a few minutes. This gave Hiram time to look about him.

It so happened that it was the occasion of a preliminary gathering for the season (there had
been no meeting since June) of those who belonged to the 'Society for the Relief of Reduced
Ladies of former Wealth and Refinement.' This 'relief' consisted in furnishing work to the
recipients of the bounty at prices about one quarter less than they could procure elsewhere,
and without experiencing a sense of obligation which these charitable ladies managed to call forth.

There was already in the back parlor a bevy of six or eight, principally young, fine-looking,
and admirably dressed women.

Arrayed in the most expensive silks, of rich colors, admirably corresponding with the season,
fitted in a mode the most faultless to the exquisite forms of these fair creatures, or made
dexterously to conceal any natural defect, they rose, they sat, they walked up and down the
room, greeting from time to time the new comers as they arrived.

The conversation turned meanwhile on the way the summer had been spent, and much delicate gossip
was broached or hinted at, but not entered into. Next the talk was about dress. The names of
the several fashionable dressmakers were quoted as authority for this, and denunciatory of
that. Congratulations were exchanged: 'How charmingly you look--how sweet that is--what a lovely
bonnet!'

All this Hiram Meeker drank in with open ears and eyes, for from where he was sitting, he could
see everything that was going on, as well as hear every word.

One thing particularly impressed him. He felt that never before had he been in such society.
The ladies of Dr. Chellis's church were intelligent, refined, and well bred, but here was TON--that
unmistakable, unquestionable ton which arrogates everything unto itself, claims everything,
and with a certain class is everything.

I need not say, to a person of Hiram's keen and appreciative sense, the picture before him
was most attractive. How perfect was every point in it! What minute and fastidious attention
had been devoted to every article of dress! How every article had been specially designed to
set off and adorn! The hat, how charming; the hair, how exquisitely coiffed; the shawl, how
magnificent; the dress how rich! The gloves, of what admirable tint, and how neatly fitted;
and how wonderfully were the walking boots adapted to display foot and ankle! And these did
not distinguish one, but every one present.

I do not wonder Hiram was carried away by the spectacle. There is something very overpowering
in such a scene. Who is sufficient to resist its seductive influences?

In the midst of what might be called a trance, when Hiram's senses were wrapt in a sort of
charmed Elysium, the Rev. Augustus Myrtle entered the room. He did not look toward Hiram, but
passed directly into the back parlor. He walked along, not as if he were stepping on eggs,
but very smoothly and noiselessly, as if treading (as he was doing) on the finest of velvet
carpets.

Instantly what a flutter! How they ran up to him, ambitious to get the first salute, and to
proffer the first congratulation! How gracefully the Rev. Augustus Myrtle received each! Two
or three there were (there were reasons, doubtless) whose cheeks he kissed decorously, yet
possibly with some degree of relish. The rest had to content themselves with shaking hands.
Many and various were the compliments he received. Their 'delight to see him, how well he was
looking,' and so forth.

Presently he started to leave them.

'Oh, you must not run off so soon, we shall follow you to your sanctum.'

'An engagement,' replied Mr. Myrtle, glancing into the other room.

A score of handsome eyes were turned in the direction where Hiram was seated, listening with
attention, and watching everything. Discomfited by such an array, he colored, coughed, and
nervously shifted his position. Some laughed. The rest looked politely indifferent.

'A connection of the Bennetts,' whispered Mrs. Myrtle, 'a fine young man, immensely rich. He
is to come in future to our church.'

'Ah,' 'Yes,' 'Indeed,' 'Excellent.' Such were the responses.

Meanwhile Mr. Myrtle had greeted Hiram courteously, and invited him to his library. This was
across the hall, in a room which formed a part of the church edifice.

As Hiram followed Mr. Myrtle out of the parlor, several of the ladies took another look at
him. They could not but remark that he was finely formed, fashionably dressed, and, thanks
to Signor Alberto, of a very graceful carriage.

The interview between Mr. Myrtle and Hiram was brief. The latter, thoroughly tutored by his
cousin, was careful to say nothing about his previous conviction and wonderful conversion,
but left Mr. Myrtle, as was very proper, to lead in the conversation. He had previously talked
with Mr. Strang, which, with the recommendation of Mrs. Bennett, left no doubt in his mind
as to Hiram's fitness to receive confirmation.

It was very hard for him to be informed that his early baptism must go for nothing--what time
his father and mother, in their ignorance and simplicity, brought their child to present before
God, and receive the beautiful rite of the sprinkling of water.

A dreadful mistake they made, since no properly consecrated hands administered on that occasion.
But nevertheless, Hiram is safe. Lucky fellow, he has discovered the mistake, and repaired
it in season.

'I think, Mr. Meeker, your conversations with Mr. Strang have proved very instructive to you.
Here is a work I have written, which embraces the whole of my controversy with Mr. Howland
on the true church (and there is not salvation in any other) and the apostolic succession.
Having read and approved this,' he added with a pleasant smile, 'I will vouch for you as a
good churchman.'

Hiram was delighted. He took the volume, and was about to express his thanks, when Mrs. Myrtle
appeared at the door, which had been left open.

'My dear, I regret to disturb you, but'--

'I will join you at once,' said Mr. Myrtle, rising. This is Mr. Meeker, a cousin of your friend
Mrs. Bennett'--as if she did not know it.

Mrs. Myrtle bowed graciously, and said, with charming condescension:

'Then it is you I have heard such a good report of. You are coming to our church away from----'

'Never mind from where, my dear,' said Mr, Myrtle pleasantly, and he bowed Hiram out in a manner
which positively charmed our hero.

That evening Mr. Bennett told Hiram he had purchased a pew for him--price sixteen hundred and
fifty dollars.

'Sixteen hundred and fifty dollars,' exclaimed the other, in amazement.

'Yes.'

'Why, I can't stand that. The dearest pews in Dr. Chellis's church were not over six hundred.
You are joking.'

'You are an idiot,' retorted Mr. Bennett, half pettishly, half playfully. 'Have you not placed
yourself in my hands? Shall I not manage your interests as I please? I say I want sixteen hundred
and fifty dollars. I know you can draw the money without the least inconvenience. If I thought
you could not, I would advance it myself. Are you content?'

Hiram nodded a doubtful assent.

How fortunate,' continued Mr. Bennett, that the Winslows are going to Europe, and how lucky
I got there the minute I did! Young Bishop came in just as I closed the purchase. I know what
he wanted it for, and I know what I wanted it for. Hiram, a word in your ear--your pew is immediately
in front of our heiress! Bravo, old fellow! Now, will you pay up?'

Hiram nodded this time with satisfaction.

The second Sunday thereafter one might observe that the Winslows' pew had been newly cushioned
and carpeted, and otherwise put in order. Several prayer books and a Bible, elegantly bound,
and lettered 'H. Meeker,' were placed in it. This could not escape the notice of the very elegant
and fashionably dressed young lady in the next slip. Strange to say, the pew contained no occupant.
But just before the service was about to commence, Hiram, purposely a little late, walked quietly
in, and took possession of his property. His pose was capital. His ease and nonchalance were
perfectly unexceptionable, evidencing haut ton. He had been practising for weeks.

'Who can he be?' asked the elegant and fashionably dressed young lady of herself. She was left
to wonder. When he walked homeward, Hiram was informed by Mr. Bennett that the elegant and
fashionably dressed young lady was Miss Arabella Thorne, without father, without mother, of
age, and possessed of a clear sum of two hundred thousand dollars in her own right!

AMERICAN FINANCES AND RESOURCES.

The question has been often asked me, here and on the continent, how has your Secretary of
the Treasury (Mr. Chase) so marvellously sustained American credit during this rebellion, and
when will your finances collapse? This question I have frequently answered in conversations
with European statesmen and bankers, and the discussion has closed generally in decided approval
of Mr. Chase's financial policy, and great confidence in the wonderful resources of the United
States.

Thus encouraged, I have concluded to discuss the question in a series of letters, explaining
Mr. Chase's system and stating the reasons of its remarkable success. The interest in such
a topic is not confined to the United States, nor to the present period, but extends to all
times and nations. Indeed, finance, as a science, belongs to the world. It is a principal branch
of the doctrine of 'the wealth of nations,' discussed, during the last century, with so much
ability by Adam Smith. Although many great principles were then settled, yet political economy
is emphatically progressive, especially the important branches of credit, currency, taxation,
and revenue.

Mr. Chase's success has been complete under the most appalling difficulties. The preceding
administration, by their treasonable course, and anti-coercion heresies, had almost paralyzed
the Government. They had increased the rate of interest of Federal loans from six to nearly
twelve per cent. per annum. Their Vice-president (Mr. Breckenridge), their Finance Minister
(Mr. Cobb), their Secretary of War (Mr. Floyd), their Secretary of the Interior (Mr. Thompson),
are now in the traitor army. Even the President (Mr. Buchanan), with an evident purpose of
aiding the South to dissolve the Union, had announced in his messages the absurd political
paradox, that a State has no right to secede, but that the Government has no right to prevent
its secession. It was a conspiracy of traitors, at the head of which stood the President, secretly
pledged, at Ostend and Cininnati, to the South (as the price of their support), to aid them
to control or destroy the republic. Thus was it that, in time of profound peace, when our United
States six per cents. commanded a few weeks before a large premium, and our debt was less than
$65,000,000, that Mr. Buchanan's Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Cobb) was borrowing money at
an interest of nearly twelve per cent. per annum. Most fortunately that accursed administration
was drawing to a close, or the temporary overthrow of the Government would have been effected.
Never did any minister of finance undertake a task apparently so hopeless as that so fully
accomplished by Mr. Chase in reviving the public credit. A single fact will illustrate the
extraordinary result. At the close of the fiscal year ending 1st July, 1860, our public debt
was only $64,769,703, and Secretary Cobb was borrowing money at twelve per cent. per annum.
On the first of July 1863, in the midst of a stupendous rebellion, our debt was $1,097,274,000,
and Mr. Chase had reduced the average rate of interest to 3.89 per cent. per annum, whilst
the highest rate was 7.30 for a comparatively small sum to be paid off next year. This is a
financial achievement without a parallel in the history of the world. If I speak on this subject
with some enthusiasm, it is in no egotistical spirit, for Mr. Chase's system differs in many
respects widely from that adopted by me as Minister of Finance during the Mexican war, and
which raised United States five per cents. to a premium. But my system was based on specie,
or its real and convertible equivalent, and would not have answered the present emergency,
which, by our enormous expenditure, necessarily forced a partial and temporary suspension of
specie payments upon our banks and Government. Mr. Chase's system is exclusively his own, and,
in many of its aspects, is without a precedent in history. When first proposed by him it had
very few friends, and was forced upon a reluctant Congress by the great emergency, presenting
the alternative of its adoption or financial ruin. Indeed, upon a test vote in Congress in
February last, it had failed, when the premium on gold rose immediately over twenty per cent.
This caused a reconsideration, when the bills were passed and the premium on gold was immediately
reduced more than the previous rise, exhibiting the extraordinary difference in a few days
of twenty-three per cent., in the absence of any intermediate Federal victories in the field.

Such are the facts. Let me now proceed to detail the causes of these
remarkable results. The first element in the success of any Minister of
Finance is the just confidence of the country in his ability, integrity,
candor, courage, and patriotism. He may find it necessary, in some great
emergency, like our rebellion, to diverge somewhat from the via trita
of the past, and enter upon paths not lighted by the lamp of experience.
He must never, however, abandon great principles, which are as
unchangeable as the laws developed by the physical sciences. When Mr.
Chase, in his first annual Treasury Report of the 9th of December, 1861,
recommended his system of United States banks, organized by Congress
throughout the country, furnishing a circulation based upon private
means and credit, but secured also by an adequate amount of Federal
stock, held by the Government as security for its redemption, it was
very unpopular, and encountered most violent opposition. The State
banks, and all the great interests connected with them, were arrayed
against the proposed system. When we reflect that many of these banks
(especially in the great State of New York) were based on State stocks,
and in many States that the banks yielded large revenues to the local
Government;--when we see, by our Census Tables of 1860 (p. 193), that
these banks numbered 1642, with a capital paid up of $421,890,095, loans
$691,495,580, and a circulation and deposits, including specie, of
$544,469,134,--we may realize in part the tremendous power arrayed
against the Secretary. This opposition was so formidable, that neither
in the public press nor in Congress did this recommendation of Mr. Chase
receive any considerable support. It is
     usually furnished in greatest proportions by institutions of least
     actual capital. Circulation, commonly, is in the inverse ratio of
     solvency. Well-founded institutions, of large and solid capital,
     have, in general, comparatively little circulation; while weak
     corporations almost invariably seek to sustain themselves by
     obtaining from the people the largest possible credit in this form.
     Under such a system, or rather lack of system, great fluctuations,
     and heavy losses in discounts and exchanges, are inevitable; and
     not unfrequently, through failures of the issuing institutions,
     considerable portions of the circulation become suddenly worthless
     in the hands of the people. The recent experience of several States
     in the valley of the Mississippi painfully illustrates the justice
     of these observations; and enforces by the most cogent practical
     arguments the duty of protecting commerce and industry against the
     recurrence of such disorders.

     'The Secretary thinks it possible to combine with this protection a
     provision for circulation, safe to the community and convenient for
     the Government.

     'Two plans for effecting this object are suggested.

     'The first of these plans was partially adopted at the last session
     of Congress in the provision authorizing the Secretary to issue
     United States notes, payable in coin, to an amount not exceeding
     fifty millions of dollars. That provision may be so extended as to
     reach the average circulation of the country, while a moderate tax,
     gradually augmented, on bank notes, will relieve the national from
     the competition of local circulation. It has been already suggested
     that the substitution of a national for a State currency, upon this
     plan, would be equivalent to a loan to the Government without
     interest, except on the fund to be kept in coin, and without
     expense, except the cost of preparation, issue, and redemption;
     while the people would gain the additional advantage of a uniform
     currency, and relief from a considerable burden in the form of
     interest on debt. These advantages are, doubtless, considerable;
     and if a scheme can be devised by which such a circulation will be
     certainly and strictly confined to the real needs of the people,
     and kept constantly equivalent to specie by prompt and certain
     redemption in coin, it will hardly fail of legislative sanction.

     'The plan, however, is not without serious inconveniences and
     hazards. The temptation, especially great in times of pressure and
     danger, to issue notes without adequate provision for redemption;
     the ever-present liability to be called on for redemption beyond
     means, however carefully provided and managed; the hazards of
     panics, precipitating demands for coin, concentrated on a few
     points and a single fund; the risk of a depreciated, depreciating,
     and finally worthless paper money; the immeasurable evils of
     dishonored public faith and national bankruptcy; all these are
     possible consequence of the adoption of a system of government
     circulation. It may be said, and perhaps truly, that they are less
     deplorable than those of an irredeemable bank circulation. Without
     entering into that comparison, the Secretary contents himself with
     observing that, in his judgment, these possible disasters so far
     outweigh the probable benefits of the plan that he feels himself
     constrained to forbear recommending its adoption.

     'The second plan suggested remains for examination. Its principal
     features are, (1st) a circulation of notes bearing a common
     impression and authenticated by a common authority; (2d) the
     redemption of these notes by the associations and institutions to
     which they may be delivered for issue; and (3d) the security of
     that redemption by the pledge of the United States stocks, and an
     adequate provision of specie.

     'A further and important advantage to the people may be reasonably
     expected in the increased security of the Union, springing from the
     common interest in its preservation, created by the distribution of
     its stocks to associations throughout the country, as the basis of
     their circulation.

     'The Secretary entertains the opinion that if a credit circulation
     in any form be desirable, it is most desirable in this. The notes
     thus issued and secured would, in his judgment, form the safest
     currency which this country has ever enjoyed; while their
     receivability for all Government dues, except customs, would make
     them, wherever payable, of equal value, as a currency, in every
     part of the Union. The large amount of specie now in the United
     States, reaching a total of not less than two hundred and
     seventy-five millions of dollars, will easily support payments of
     duties in coin, while these payments and ordinary demands will aid
     in retaining this specie in the country as a solid basis both of
     circulation and loans.

     'The whole circulation of the country, except a limited amount of
     foreign coin, would, after the lapse of two or three years, bear
     the impress of the nation whether in coin or notes; while the
     amount of the latter, always easily ascertainable, and, of course,
     always generally known, would not be likely to be increased beyond
     the real wants of business.

     'He expresses an opinion in favor of this plan with the greater
     confidence, because it has the advantage of recommendation from
     experience. It is not an untried theory. In the State of New York,
     and in one or more of the other States, it has been subjected, in
     its most essential parts, to the test of experiment, and has been
     found practicable and useful. The probabilities of success will not
     be diminished but increased by its adoption under national sanction
     and for the whole country.

     'It only remains to add that the plan is recommended by one other
     consideration, which, in the judgment of the Secretary, is entitled
     to much influence. It avoids almost, if not altogether, the evils
     of a great and sudden change in the currency by offering
     inducements to solvent existing institutions to withdraw the
     circulation issued under State authority, and substitute that
     provided by the authority of the Union. Thus, through the voluntary
     action of the existing institutions, aided by wise legislation, the
     great transition from a currency heterogeneous, unequal, and
     unsafe, to one uniform, equal, and safe, may be speedily and almost
     imperceptibly accomplished.

     'If the Secretary has omitted the discussion of the question of the
     constitutional power of Congress to put this plan into operation,
     it is because no argument is necessary to establish the proposition
     that the power to regulate commerce and the value of coin includes
     the power to regulate the currency of the country, or the
     collateral proposition that the power to effect the end includes
     the power to adopt the necessary and expedient means.

     'The Secretary entertains the hope that the plan now submitted, if
     adopted with the limitations and safeguards which the experience
     and wisdom of senators and representatives will, doubtless,
     suggest, may impart such value and stability to Government
     securities that it will not be difficult to obtain the additional
     loans required for the service of the current and the succeeding
     year at fair and reasonable rates; especially if the public credit
     be supported by sufficient and certain provision for the payment of
     interest and ultimate redemption of the principal.'

Congress adjourned after a session of eight months, and failed to adopt
Mr. Chase's recommendation. Indeed, it had then but few advocates in
Congress or the country. Events rolled on, and our debt, as anticipated
by Mr. Chase, became of vast dimensions. In his Report of December,
1861, the public debt on the 30th June, 1862 (the close of the fiscal
year), was estimated by the Secretary at $517,372,800; and it was
$514,211,371, or more than $3,000,000 less than the estimate. In his
Report of December 4, 1862, our debt, on the 30th June, 1863, was
estimated by Mr. Chase at $1,122,297,403, and it was $1,097,274,000,
being $25,023,403 less than the estimate. The average rate of interest
on this debt was 3.89, being $41,927,980, of which $30,141,080 was
payable in gold, and $11,786,900 payable in Federal currency. It will
thus be seen that the whole truth, as to our heavy debt, was always
distinctly stated in advance by Mr. Chase, and that the debt has not now
quite reached his estimate. Such a circulation, uniform in
     general characteristics, and amply secured as to prompt
     convertibility by national bonds deposited in the treasury, by the
     associations receiving it, would unite, in his judgment, more
     elements of soundness and utility than can be combined in any
     other.

     'A circulation composed exclusively of notes issued directly by the
     Government, or of such notes and coin, is recommended mainly by two
     considerations:--the first derived from the facility with which it
     may be provided in emergencies, and the second, from its cheapness.

     'The principal objections to such a circulation as a permanent
     system are, 1st, the facility of excessive expansion when
     expenditures exceed revenue; 2d, the danger of lavish and corrupt
     expenditure, stimulated by facility of expansion; 3d, the danger of
     fraud in management and supervision; 4th, the impossibility of
     providing it in sufficient amounts for the wants of the people
     whenever expenditures are reduced to equality with revenue or below
     it.

     'These objections are all serious. The last requires some
     elucidation. It will be easily understood, however, if it be
     considered that a government issuing a credit circulation cannot
     supply, in any given period, an amount of currency greater than the
     excess of its disbursements over its receipts. To that amount, it
     may create a debt in small notes, and these notes may be used as
     currency. This is precisely the way in which the existing currency
     of United States notes is supplied. That portion of the expenditure
     not met by revenue or loans has been met by the issue of these
     notes. Debt in this form has been substituted for various debts in
     other forms. Whenever, therefore, the country shall be restored to
     a healthy normal condition, and receipts exceed expenditures, the
     supply of United States notes will be arrested, and must
     progressively diminish. Whatever demand may be made for their
     redemption in coin must hasten this diminution; and there can be no
     reissue; for reissue, under the conditions, necessarily implies
     disbursement, and the revenue, upon the supposition, supplies more
     than is needed for that purpose. There is, then, no mode in which a
     currency in United States notes can be permanently maintained,
     except by loans of them, when not required for disbursement, on
     deposits of coin, or pledge of securities, or in some other way.
     This would convert the treasury into a government bank, with all
     its hazards and mischiefs.

     'If these reasonings be sound, little room can remain for doubt
     that the evils certain to arise from such a scheme of currency, if
     adopted as a permanent system, greatly overbalance the temporary
     though not inconsiderable advantages offered by it.

     'It remains to be considered what results may be reasonably
     expected from an act authorizing the organization of banking
     associations, such as the Secretary proposed in his last Report.

     'Such a currency, it is believed, can be secured through banking
     associations organized under national legislation. In the practical working of the plan, if sanctioned by
     Congress, redemption at one or more of the great commercial
     centres, will probably be provided for by all the associations
     which circulate the notes, and, in case any association shall fail
     in such redemption, the treasurer of the United States will
     probably, under discretionary authority, pay the notes, and cancel
     the public debt held as security. These circumstances, if they might not
     wholly remove the temptation to excessive issues, would certainly
     reduce it to the lowest point, while the form of the notes, the
     uniformity of the devices, the signatures of national officers, and
     the imprint of the national seal authenticating the declaration
     borne on each that it is secured by bonds which represent the faith
     and capital of the whole country, could not fail to make every note
     as good in any part of the world as the best known and best
     esteemed national securities.

     'The Secretary has already mentioned the support to public credit
     which may be expected from the proposed associations. The
     importance of this point may excuse some additional observations.

     'The organization proposed, if sanctioned by Congress, would
     require, within a very few years, for deposit as security for
     circulation, bonds of the United States to an amount not less than
     $250,000,000. It may well be expected, indeed, since the
     circulation, by uniformity in credit and value, and capacity of
     quick and cheap transportation, will be likely to be used more
     extensively than any hitherto issued, that the demand for bonds
     will overpass this limit. Should Congress see fit to restrict the
     privilege of deposit to the bonds known as five-twenties,
     authorized by the act of last session, the demand would promptly
     absorb all of that description already issued and make large room
     for more. A steady market for the bonds would thus be established
     and the negotiation of them greatly facilitated.

     'But it is not in immediate results that the value of this support
     would be only or chiefly seen. There are always holders who desire
     to sell securities of whatever kind. If buyers are few or
     uncertain, the market value must decline. But the plan proposed
     would create a constant demand, equalling and often exceeding the
     supply. Thus a steady uniformity in price would be maintained, and
     generally at a rate somewhat above those of bonds of equal credit,
     but not available to banking associations. It is not easy to
     appreciate the full benefits of such conditions to a government
     obliged to borrow.

     'Another advantage to be derived from such associations would be
     found in the convenient agencies which they would furnish for the
     deposit of public moneys.

     'The Secretary does not propose to interfere with the independent
     treasury. It may be advantageously retained, with the assistant
     treasurers already established in the most important cities, where
     the customs may be collected as now, in coin or treasury notes
     issued directly by the Government, but not furnished to banking
     associations.

     'But whatever the advantages of such arrangements in the commercial
     cities in relation to customs, it seems clear that the secured
     national circulation furnished to the banking associations should
     be received everywhere for all other dues than customs, and that
     these associations will constitute the best and safest depositaries
     of the revenues derived from such receipts. The convenience and
     utility to the Government of their employment in this capacity, and
     often, also, as agents for payments and as distributors of stamps,
     need no demonstration. The necessity for some other depositaries
     than surveyors of ports, receivers, postmasters, and other
     officers, of whose responsibilities and fitness, in many cases,
     nothing satisfactory can be known, is acknowledged by the provision
     for selection by the Secretary contained in the internal revenue
     act; and it seems very clear that the public interest will be
     secured far more certainly by the organization and employment of
     associations organized as proposed than by any official selection.

     'Another and very important advantage of the proposed plan has
     already been adverted to. It will reconcile, as far as practicable,
     the interest of existing institutions with those of the whole
     people.

     'All changes, however important, should be introduced with caution,
     and proceeded in with careful regard to every affected interest.
     Rash innovation is not less dangerous than stupefied inaction. The
     time has come when a circulation of United States notes, in some
     form, must be employed. The people demand uniformity in currency,
     and claim, at least, part of the benefit of debt without interest,
     made into money, hitherto enjoyed exclusively by the banks. These
     demands are just and must be respected. But there need be no sudden
     change; there need be no hurtful interference with existing
     interests. As yet the United States note circulation hardly fills
     the vacuum caused by the temporary withdrawal of coin; it does not,
     perhaps, fully meet the demand for increased circulation created by
     the increased number, variety, and activity of payments in money.
     There is opportunity, therefore, for the wise and beneficial
     regulation of its substitution for other circulation. The mode of
     substitution, also, may be judiciously adapted to actual
     circumstances. The plan suggested consults both purposes. It
     contemplates gradual withdrawal of bank note circulation, and
     proposes a United States note circulation, furnished to banking
     associations, in the advantages of which they may participate in
     full proportion to the care and responsibility assumed and the
     services performed by them. The promptitude and zeal with which
     many of the existing institutions came to the financial support of
     the Government in the dark days which followed the outbreak of the
     rebellion is not forgotten. They ventured largely, and boldly, and
     patriotically on the side of the Union and the constitutional
     supremacy of the nation over States and citizens. It does not at
     all detract from the merit of the act that the losses, which they
     feared but unhesitatingly risked, were transmuted into unexpected
     gains. It is a solid recommendation of the suggested plan that it
     offers the opportunity to these and kindred institutions to
     reorganize, continue their business under the proposed act, and
     with little loss and much advantage, participate in maintaining the
     new and uniform national currency.

     'The proposed plan is recommended, finally, by the firm anchorage
     it will supply to the union of the States. Every banking
     association whose bonds are deposited in the treasury of the Union;
     every individual who holds a dollar of the circulation secured by
     such deposit; every merchant, every manufacturer, every farmer,
     every mechanic, interested in transactions dependent for success
     on the credit of that circulation, will feel as an injury every
     attempt to rend the national unity, with the permanence and
     stability of which all their interests are so closely and vitally
     connected. Had the system been possible, and had it actually
     existed two years ago, can it be doubted that the national
     interests and sentiments enlisted by it for the Union would have so
     strengthened the motives for adhesion derived from other sources
     that the wild treason of secession would have been impossible?

     'The Secretary does not yield to the phantasy that taxation is a
     blessing and debt a benefit; but it is the duty of public men to
     extract good from evil whenever it is possible. The burdens of
     taxation may be lightened and even made productive of incidental
     benefits by wise, and aggravated and made intolerable by unwise,
     legislation. In like manner debt, by no means desirable in itself,
     may, when circumstances compel nations to incur its obligations, be
     made by discreet use less burdensome, and even instrumental in the
     promotion of public and private security and welfare.

     'The rebellion has brought a great debt upon us. It is proposed to
     use a part of it in such a way that the sense of its burden may be
     lost in the experience of incidental advantages. The issue of
     United States notes is such a use; but if exclusive, is hazardous
     and temporary. The security by national bonds of similar notes
     furnished to banking associations is such a use, and is
     comparatively safe and permanent; and with this use may be
     connected, for the present, and occasionally, as circumstances may
     require, hereafter, the use of the ordinary United States notes in
     limited amounts.

     'No very early day will probably witness the reduction of the
     public debt to the amount required as a basis for secured
     circulation. Should no future wars arrest reduction and again
     demand expenditures beyond revenue, that day will, however, at
     length come. When it shall arrive the debt may be retained on low
     interest at that amount, or some other security for circulation may
     be devised, or, possibly, the vast supplies of our rich mines may
     render all circulation unadvisable except gold and the absolute
     representatives and equivalents, dollar for dollar, of gold in the
     treasury or on safe deposit elsewhere. But these considerations may
     be for another generation.

     'The Secretary forbears extended argument on the constitutionality
     of the suggested system. It is proposed as an auxiliary to the
     power to borrow money; as an agency of the power to collect and
     disburse taxes; and as an exercise of the power to regulate
     commerce, and of the power to regulate the value of coin. Of the
     two first sources of power nothing need be said. The argument
     relating to them was long since exhausted, and is well known. Of
     the other two there is not room, nor does it seem needful to say
     much. If Congress can prescribe the structure, equipment, and
     management of vessels to navigate rivers flowing between or through
     different States as a regulation of commerce, Congress may
     assuredly determine what currency shall be employed in the
     interchange of their commodities, which is the very essence of
     commerce. Statesmen who have agreed in little else have concurred
     in the opinion that the power to regulate coin is, in substance and
     effect, a power to regulate currency, and that the framers of the
     Constitution so intended. It may well enough be admitted that while
     Congress confines its regulation to weight, fineness, shape, and
     device, banks and individuals may issue notes for currency in
     competition with coin. But it is difficult to conceive by what
     process of logic the unquestioned power to regulate coin can be
     separated from the power to maintain or restore its circulation, by
     excluding from currency all private or corporate substitutes which
     affect its value, whenever Congress shall see fit to exercise that
     power for that purpose.

     'The recommendations, now submitted, of the limited issue of United
     States notes as a wise expedient for the present time, and as an
     occasional expedient for future times, and of the organization of
     banking associations to supply circulation secured by national
     bonds and convertible always into United States notes, and after
     resumption of specie payments, into coin, are prompted by no favor
     to excessive issues of any description of credit money.

     'On the contrary, it is the Secretary's firm belief that by no
     other path can the resumption of specie payments be so surely
     reached and so certainly maintained. United States notes receivable
     for bonds bearing a secure specie interest are next best to notes
     convertible into coin. The circulation of banking associations
     organized under a general act of Congress, secured by such bonds,
     can be most surely and safely maintained at the point of certain
     convertibility into coin. If, temporarily, these associations
     redeem their issues with United States notes, resumption of specie
     payments will not thereby be delayed or endangered, but hastened
     and secured; for, just as soon as victory shall restore peace, the
     ample revenue, already secured by wise legislation, will enable the
     Government, through advantageous purchases of specie, to replace at
     once large amounts, and, at no distant day, the whole, of this
     circulation by coin, without detriment to any interest, but, on the
     contrary, with great and manifest benefit to all interests.

     'The Secretary recommends, therefore, no mere paper money scheme,
     but, on the contrary, a series of measures looking to a safe and
     gradual return to gold and silver as the only permanent basis,
     standard, and measure of values recognized by the
     Constitution--between which and an irredeemable paper currency, as
     he believes, the choice is now to be made.'

Congress, however, was still unwilling to adopt the recommendations of the Secretary, until
the necessity was demonstrated by the course of events. On reference to the laws, which are
printed in the Appendix, it will be found, that the great features of the system of the Secretary
were as follows:

1. A loan to the Government upon its bonds reimbursable in twenty years, but redeemable after
five years, at the option of the nation, the interest being six per cent., payable semi-annually
in coin, as is also the principal.

2. The issue of United States legal tender notes, receivable for all dues to the nation except
customs, and fundable in this United States 5--20 six per cent. stock.

3. The authorization of the banks recommended in his Report, whose circulation would be secured
not only by private capital, but by adequate deposits of United States stock with the Government.

4. To maintain, in the meantime, as near to specie as practicable, this Federal Currency,--1st,
by making it receivable in all dues to the Government except for customs; 2d, by the privilege
of funding it in United States stock; 3d, by enhancing the benefit of this privilege, not only
by making the stock, both principal and interest, payable in specie, but by making it gradually
the ultimate basis of our whole bank circulation, which, as shown by the census tables before
referred to (including deposits), nearly doubles every decade.

5. By imposing such a tax on the circulation of the State banks, as, together with State or
municipal taxes, would induce them to transfer their capital to the new banks proposed by the
Secretary.

6. To relieve the new banks from all State or municipal taxation.

7. In lieu thereof, to impose a moderate Federal tax on all bank circulation, as a bonus to
be paid cheerfully by these banks for the great privilege of furnishing ultimately the whole
paper currency of the country, and the other advantages secured by these bills.

This tax, as proposed by the Secretary, was one per cent. semi-annually, which in effect would
have reduced the interest on our principal loans from six to four per cent. per annum, so far
as those loans were made the basis of bank circulation. Congress, however, fixed this tax at
about one half, thus making the interest on such loans equivalent in fact to five per cent.
per annum, so far as such loans, at the option of the holder, are made the basis of banking
and of bank circulation. This is a privilege which gives great additional value to these loans,
for the right to issue the bank paper circulation of the country free from State or municipal
taxes, is worth far more than one half per cent, semi-annually, to be paid on such circulation.
That this privilege is worth more than the Federal tax, is proved by the fact, that many banks
are already being organized under this system, and by the further fact, that more than $200,000,000
of legal tenders have already been funded in this stock, and the process continues at the rate
of from one to two millions of dollars a day. It will be observed, that the holders of such
bonds can keep them, if they please, disconnected with all banks, receiving the principal at
maturity, as well as the semi-annual interest, in gold, free from all taxes.

This system has been attended with complete success, and notwithstanding the increase of our
debt, the premium on gold, for our Federal currency, fundable in this stock, has fallen from
73 per cent. in February last, before the adoption of Mr. Chase's system, to 27 per cent. at
present; and before the 30th of June next, it is not doubted that this premium must disappear.
No loyal American doubts the complete suppression of the rebellion before that date, in which
event, our Federal currency will rise at once to the par of gold. In the meantime, however,
gold is at a premium of 27 per cent., which is the least profit (independent of future advance
above par) so soon to be realized by those purchasing this currency now, and waiting its appreciation,
or investing it in our United States 5--20 six per cent. stock.

But, besides the financial benefits to the Government of Mr. Chase's system, its other advantages
are great indeed. It will ultimately displace our whole State bank system and circulation,
and give us a national currency, based on ample private capital and Federal stocks, a currency
of uniform value throughout the country, and always certainly convertible on demand into coin.
Besides, by displacing the State bank circulation, the whole bank note currency of the Union
will be based on the stocks of the Government, and give to every citizen who holds the bonds
or the currency (which will embrace the whole community in every State), a direct interest
in the maintenance of the Union.

