CHARACTER WRITINGS

OF THE

SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

EDITED BY

HENRY MORLEY, LL.D.

EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON

1891

CONTENTS.

CHARACTER WRITING BEFORE THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.

THEOPHRASTUS.
  Stupidity

THOMAS HARMAN'S "Caveat for Cursitors"
  A Ruffler

BEN JONSON'S "Every Man out of his Humour" and "Cynthia's Revels"
  A Traveller
  The True Critic.
  The Character of the Persons in "Every Man out of his Humour"

CHARACTER WRITINGS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.

Sir THOMAS OVERBURY
  A Good Woman
  A Very Woman
  Her Next Part
  A Dissembler
  A Courtier
  A Golden Ass
  A Flatterer
  An Ignorant Glory-Hunter
  A Timist
  An Amorist
  An Affected Traveller
  A Wise Man
  A Noble Spirit
  An Old Man
  A Country Gentleman
  A Fine Gentleman
  An Elder Brother
  A Braggadocio Welshman
  A Pedant
  A Serving-Man
  An Host
  An Ostler
  The True Character of a Dunce
  A Good Wife
  A Melancholy Man
  A Sailor
  A Soldier
  A Tailor
  A Puritan
  A Mere Common Lawyer
  A Mere Scholar
  A Tinker
  An Apparitor
  An Almanac-Maker
  A Hypocrite
  A Chambermaid
  A Precisian
  An Inns of Court Man
  A Mere Fellow of a House
  A Worthy Commander in the Wars
  A Vainglorious Coward in Command
  A Pirate
  An Ordinary Fence
  A Puny Clerk
  A Footman
  A Noble and Retired Housekeeper
  An Intruder into Favour
  A Fair and Happy Milkmaid
  An Arrant Horse-Courser
  A Roaring Boy
  A Drunken Dutchman resident in England
  A Phantastique: An Improvident Young Gallant
  A Button-Maker of Amsterdam
  A Distaster of the Time
  A Mere Fellow of a House
  A Mere Pettifogger
  An Ingrosser of Corn
  A Devilish Usurer
  A Waterman
  A Reverend Judge
  A Virtuous Widow
  An Ordinary Widow
  A Quack-Salver
  A Canting Rogue
  A French Cook
  A Sexton
  A Jesuit
  An Excellent Actor
  A Franklin
  A Rhymer
  A Covetous Man
  The Proud Man
  A Prison
  A Prisoner
  A Creditor
  A Sergeant
  His Yeoman
  A Common Cruel Jailer
  What a Character is
  The Character of a Happy Life
  An Essay on Valour

JOSEPH HALL

 HIS SATIRES--
  A Domestic Chaplain
  The Witless Gallant

 HIS CHARACTERS OF VIRTUES AND VICES

 I.  Virtues--
  Character of the Wise Man
  Of an Honest Man
  Of the Faithful Man
  Of the Humble Man
  Of a Valiant Man
  Of a Patient Man
  Of the True Friend
  Of the Truly Noble
  Of the Good Magistrate
  Of the Penitent
  The Happy Man

 II. Vices--
  Character of the Hypocrite
  Of the Busybody
  Of the Superstitious
  Of the Profane
  Of the Malcontent
  Of the Inconstant
  Of the Flatterer
  Of the Slothful
  Of the Covetous
  Of the Vainglorious
  Of the Presumptuous
  Of the Distrustful
  Of the Ambitious
  Of the Unthrift
  Of the Envious

JOHN STEPHENS

JOHN EARLE

 MICROCOSMOGRAPHY----

  A Child
  A Young Raw Preacher
  A Grave Divine
  A Mere Dull Physician
  An Alderman
  A Discontented Man
  An Antiquary
  A Younger Brother
  A Mere Formal Man
  A Church-Papist
  A Self-Conceited Man
  A Too Idly Reserved Man
  A Tavern
  A Shark
  A Carrier
  A Young Man
  An Old College Butler
  An Upstart Country Knight
  An Idle Gallant
  A Constable
  A Downright Scholar
  A Plain Country Fellow
  A Player
  A Detractor
  A Young Gentleman of the University
  A Weak Man
  A Tobacco-Seller
  A Pot Poet
  A Plausible Man
  A Bowl-Alley
  The World's Wise Man
  A Surgeon
  A Contemplative Man
  A She Precise Hypocrite
  A Sceptic in Religion
  An Attorney
  A Partial Man
  A Trumpeter
  A Vulgar-Spirited Man
  A Plodding Student
  Paul's Walk
  A Cook
  A Bold Forward Man
  A Baker
  A Pretender to Learning
  A Herald
  The Common Singing-Men in Cathedral Churches
  A Shopkeeper
  A Blunt Man
  A Handsome Hostess
  A Critic
  A Sergeant or Catchpole
  A University Dun
  A Staid Man
  A Modest Man
  A Mere Empty Wit
  A Drunkard
  A Prison
  A Serving-Man
  An Insolent Man
  Acquaintance
  A Mere Complimental Man
  A Poor Fiddler
  A Meddling Man
  A Good Old Man
  A Flatterer
  A High-Spirited Man
  A Mere Gull Citizen
  A Lascivious Man
  A Rash Man
  An Affected Man
  A Profane Man
  A Coward
  A Sordid Rich Man
  A Mere Great Man
  A Poor Man
  An Ordinary Honest Man
  A Suspicious or Jealous Man

NICHOLAS BRETON

 CHARACTERS UPON ESSAYS, MORAL AND DIVINE
  Wisdom
  Learning
  Knowledge
  Practice
  Patience
  Love
  Peace
  War
  Valour
  Resolution
  Honour
  Truth
  Time
  Death
  Faith
  Fear

 THE GOOD AND THE BAD.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH Character of the Happy Warrior

CHARACTER WRITINGS

OF THE

SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.

Character writing, as a distinct form of Literature, had its origin more than two thousand
years ago in the [Greek: aethichoi Chadaaedes]---Ethic Characters--of Tyrtamus of Lesbos, a
disciple of Plato, who gave him for his eloquence the name of Divine Speaker--Theophrastus.
Aristotle left him his library and all his MSS., and named him his successor in the schools
of the Lyceum. Nicomachus, the son of Aristotle, was among his pupils. He followed in the steps
of Aristotle. Diogenes Laertius ascribed to Theophrastus two hundred and twenty books. He founded,
by a History of Plants, the science of Botany; and he is now best known by the little contribution
to Moral Philosophy, in which he gave twenty-eight short chapters to concise description of
twenty-eight differing qualities in men. The description in each chapter was not of a man,
but of a quality. The method of Theophrastus, as Casaubon said, was between the philosophical
and the poetical. He described a quality, but he described it by personification, and his aim
was the amending of men's manners. The twenty-eight chapters that have come down to us are
probably no more than a fragment of a larger work. They describe vices, and not all of them.
Another part, now lost, may have described the virtues. In a short proem the writer speaks
of himself as ninety-nine years old. Probably those two nines were only a poetical suggestion
of long experience from which these pictures of the constituents of human life and action had
been drawn. He had wondered, he said, before he thought of writing such a book, at the diversities
of manners among Greeks all born under one sky and trained alike. For many years he had considered
and compared the ways of men; he had lived to be ninety-nine. Our children may be the better
for a knowledge of our ways of daily life, that they may grow into the best. Observe and see
whether I describe them rightly. I will begin, he says, with Dissimulation. I will first define
the vice, and then describe the quality and manners of the man who dissembles. After that I
will endeavour to describe also the other qualities of mind, each in its kind. Then follow
the Characters of these twenty-eight qualities: Dissimulation, Adulation, Garrulity, Rusticity,
Blandishment, Senselessness, Loquacity, Newsmongering, Impudence, Sordid Parsimony, Impurity,
Ill-timed Approach, Inept Sedulity, Stupidity, Contumacy, Superstition, Querulousness, Distrust,
Dirtiness, Tediousness, Sordid or Frivolous Desire for Praise, Illiberality, Ostentation, Pride,
Timidity, Oligarchy, or the vehement desire for honour, without greed for money, Insolence,
and Evil Speaking. One of these Characters may serve as an example of their method, and show
their place in the ancestry of Characters as they were written in England in the Seventeenth
Century.

STUPIDITY.

You may define Stupidity as a slowness of mind in word or deed. But the Stupid Man is one who,
sitting at his counters, and having made all his calculations and worked out his sum, asks
one who sits by him how much it comes to. When any one has a suit against him, and he has come
to the day when the cause must be decided, he forgets it and walks out into his field. Often
also when he sits to see a play, the rest go out and he is left, fallen asleep in the theatre.
The same man, having eaten too much, will go out in the night to relieve himself, and fall
over the neighbour's dog, who bites him. The same man, having hidden away what he has received,
is always searching for it, and never finds it. And when it is announced to him that one of
his intimate friends is dead, and he is asked to the funeral, then, with a face set to sadness
and tears, he says, "Good luck to it!" When he receives money owing to him he calls in witnesses,
and in midwinter he scolds his man for not having gathered cucumbers. To train his boys for
wrestling he makes them race till they are tired. Cooking his own lentils in the field, he
throws salt twice into the pot and makes them uneatable. When it rains he says, "How sweet
I find this water of the stars." And when some one asks, "How many have passed the gates of
death?" [proverbial phrase for a great number] answers, "As many, I hope, as will be enough
for you and me."

The first and the best sequence of "Characters" in English Literature is the series of sketches
of the Pilgrims in the Prologue to Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales" The Characters are so varied
as to unite in representing the whole character of English life in Chaucer's day; and they
are, written upon one plan, each with suggestion of the outward body and its dress as well
as of the mind within. But Chaucer owed nothing to Theophrastus. In his Character Writing he
drew all from nature with his own good wit. La Bruyère in France translated the characters
of Theophrastus, and his own writing of Characters in the seventeenth century followed a fashion
that had its origin in admiration of the wit of those Greek Ethical Characters. La Bruyère
was born in 1639 and died in 1696. Our Joseph Hall, whose "Characters of Vices and Virtues"
were written in 1608, and translated into French twenty years before La Bruyère was born, said,
in his Preface to them, "I have done as I could, following that ancient Master of Morality
who thought this the fittest task for the ninety-ninth year of his age, and the profitablest
Monument that he could leave for a farewell to his Grecians."

There was some aim at short and witty sketches of character in descriptions of the ingenuity
of horse-coursers and coney-catchers who used quick wit for beguiling the unwary in those bright
days of Elizabeth, when the very tailors and cooks worked fantasies in silk and velvet, sugar
and paste. Thomas Harman, whose grandfather had been Clerk of the Crown under Henry VII., and
who himself inherited estates in Kent, became greatly interested in the vagrant beggars who
came to his door. He made a study of them, came to London to publish his book, and lodged at
Whitefriars, within the Cloister, for convenience of nearness to them, and more thorough knowledge
of their ways. He first published his book in 1567 as A Caveat or Warning for Common Cursitors,
vulgarly called Vagabonds--"A Caveat or Warening for common cursetors, Vulgarely called Vagabones,
set forth by Thomas Harman, Esquiere, for the utilite and proffyt of his naturall Cuntrey"
and he dedicated it to Elizabeth, Countess of Shrewsbury. It contained twenty-four character
sketches, gave the names of the chief tramps then living in England, and a vocabulary of their
cant words. This is Harman's first character:--

A RUFFLER.

The Ruffler, because he is first in degree of this odious order, and is so called in a statute
made for the punishment of Vagabonds in the twenty-seventh year of King Henry VIII, late of
most famous memory, he shall be first placed as the worthiest of this unruly rabblement. And
he is so called when he goeth first abroad. Either he hath served in the wars, or else he hath
been a serving-man, and weary of well-doing, shaking off all pain, doth choose him this idle
life; and wretchedly wanders about the most shires of this realm, and with stout audacity demandeth,
where he thinketh he may be bold, and circumspect enough where he seeth cause, to ask charity
ruefully and lamentably, that it would make a flinty heart to relent and pity his miserable
estate, how he hath been maimed and bruised in the wars. Peradventure one will show you some
outward wound which he got at some drunken fray, either halting of some privy wound festered
with a filthy fiery flankard [brand]. For be well assured that the hardiest soldiers be either
slain or maimed, either and [or if] they escape all hazards and return home again, if they
be without relief of their friends they will surely desperately rob and steal, and either shortly
be hanged or miserably die in prison. For they be so much ashamed and disdain to beg or ask
charity, that rather they will as desperately fight for to live and maintain themselves, as
manfully and valiantly they ventured themselves in the Prince's quarrel. Now these Rufflers,
the outcasts of serving-men, when begging or craving fails them, they pick and pilfer from
other inferior beggars that they meet by the way, as rogues, palliards, morts, and doxes. Yea,
if they meet with a woman alone riding to the market, either old man or boy, that he kneweth
well will not resist, such they fetch and spoil. These Rufflers, after a year or two at the
farthest, become upright men [lusty vagrants who beg and take only money, who rob hen roosts,
filch from stalls or pockets, and have dens of their own for drinking and receipt of stolen
goods], unless they be prevented by twined hemp.

I had of late years an old man to my tenant who customably a great time went twice in the week
to London, either with fruit or with peascods, when time served therefor. And as he was coming
homeward, on Blackheath, at the end thereof next to Shooter's Hill, he overtook two Rufflers,
the one mannerly waiting on the other, as one had been the master and the other his man or
servant, carrying his master's cloak. This old man was very glad that he might have their company
over the hill, because that day he had made a good market. For he had seven shillings in his
purse and an old angel, which this poor man had thought had not been in his purse; for he willed
his wife overnight to take out the same angel and lay it up until his coming home again, and
he verily thought his wife had so done, which indeed forgot to do it. Thus, after salutations
had, this Master Ruffler entered into communication with this simple old man, who, riding softly
beside them, communed of many matters. Thus feeding this old man with pleasant talk until they
were on the top of the hill, where these Rufflers might well behold the coast about them clear,
quickly steps unto this poor man and taketh hold of his horse bridle and leadeth him into the
wood, and demandeth of him what and how much money he had in his purse. "Now, by my troth,"
quoth this old man, "you are a merry gentleman! I know you mean not to take anything from me,
but rather to give me some, if I should ask it of you."

By and by [immediately] this servant thief casteth the cloak that he carried on his arm about
this poor man's face that he should not mark or view them, with sharp words to deliver quickly
that he had, and to confess truly what was in his purse. This poor man then all abashed yielded,
and confessed that he had seven shillings in his purse; and the truth is, he knew of no more.
This old angel was fallen out of a little purse into the bottom of a great purse. Now this
seven shillings in white money they quickly found, thinking indeed that there had been no more;
yet farther groping and searching, found this old angel. And with great admiration this gentleman
thief began to bless him, saying--

"Good Lord, what a world is this! How may," quoth he, "a man believe or trust in the same?
See you not," quoth he, "this old knave told me that he had but seven shillings, and here is
more by an angel! What an old knave and a false knave have we here!" quoth this Ruffler. "Our
Lord have mercy on us, will this world never be better?" and therewith went their way and left
the old man in the wood, doing him no more harm.

But sorrowfully sighing this old man, returning home, declared his misadventure with all the
words and circumstances above showed. Whereat for the time was great laughing, and this poor
man, for his losses, among his loving neighbours well considered in the end.

Such character-painting simply came of the keen interest in life that was at the same time
developing an energetic drama. But at the end of Elizabeth's reign a writing of brief witty
characters appears to have come into fashion as one of the many forms of ingenuity that pleased
society, and might be distantly related to the Euphuism of the day.

Ben Jonson's "Cynthia's Revels," first acted in 1600, two or three years before the end of
Elizabeth's reign, has little character sketches set into the text. Here are two of them:--

A TRAVELLER.

One so made out of the mixture of shreds and forms that himself is truly deformed. He is his
own promoter in every place. The wife of the ordinary gives him his diet to maintain her table
in discourse; which, indeed, is a mere tyranny over her other guests, for he will usurp all
the talk; ten constables are not so tedious. He is no great shifter; once a year his apparel
is ready to revolt. He doth use much to arbitrate quarrels, and fights himself, exceeding well,
out at a window. He will lie cheaper than any beggar, and louder than most clocks; for which
he is right properly accommodated to the whetstone, his page. He doth learn to make strange
sauces, to eat anchovies, maccaroni, bovoli, fagioli, and caviare, because he loves them; speaks
as he speaks, looks, walks, goes so in clothes and fashion: is in all as if he were moulded
of him. Marry, before they met, he had other very pretty sufficiencies, which yet he retains
some light impression of; as frequenting a dancing-school, and grievously torturing strangers
with inquisition after his grace in his galliard. He buys a fresh acquaintance at any rate.
His eyes and his raiment confer much together as he goes in the street. He treads nicely, like
the fellow that walks upon ropes, especially the first Sunday of his silk stockings; and when
he is most neat and new, you shall strip him with commendations.

THE TRUE CRITIC.

A creature of a most perfect and divine temper: one in whom the humours and elements are peaceably
met, without emulation of precedency. He is neither too fantastically melancholy, too slowly
phlegmatic, too lightly sanguine, nor too rashly choleric; but in all so composed and ordered,
as it is clear Nature went about some full work, she did more than make a man when she made
him. His discourse is like his behaviour, uncommon, but not unpleasing; he is prodigal of neither.
He strives rather to be that which men call judicious, than to be thought so; and is so truly
learned, that he affects not to show it. He will think and speak his thought both freely; but
as distant from depraving another man's merit, as proclaiming his own. For his valour, 'tis
such that he dares as little to offer any injury as receive one. In sum, he hath a most ingenuous
and sweet spirit, a sharp and seasoned wit, a straight judgment and a strong mind. Fortune
could never break him, nor make him less. He counts it his pleasure to despise pleasures, and
is more delighted with good deeds than goods. It is a competency to him that he can be virtuous.
He doth neither covet nor fear; he hath too much reason to do either; and that commends all
things to him.

The play that preceded "Cynthia's Revels" was "Every Man Out of his Humour." It was first printed
in 1600, and Ben Jonson amused himself by adding to its list of Dramatis Personae this piece
of Character Writing:--

THE CHARACTER OF THE PERSONS.

Asper. He is of an ingenious and free spirit, eager and constant in reproof, without fear controlling
the world's abuses. One whom no servile hope of gain, or frosty apprehension of danger, can
make to be a parasite, either to time, place, or opinion.

Macilente. A man well parted, a sufficient scholar, and travelled; who, wanting that place
in the world's account which he thinks his merit capable of, falls into such an envious apoplexy,
with which his judgment is so dazzled and distasted, that he grows violently impatient of any
opposite happiness in another.

Puntarvolo. A vainglorious knight, over-Englishing his travels, and wholly consecrated to singularity;
the very Jacob's staff of compliment; a sir that hath lived to see the revolution of time in
most of his apparel. Of presence good enough, but so palpably affected to his own praise, that
for want of flatterers he commends himself, to the floutage of his own family. He deals upon
returns, and strange performances, resolving, in despite of public derision, to stick to his
own particular fashion, phrase, and gesture.

Carlo Buffone. A public, scurrilous, and profane jester, that more swift than Circe, with absurd
similes, will transform any person into deformity. A good feast-hound or banquet-beagle, that
will scent you out a supper some three miles off, and swear to his patrons, damn him! he came
in oars, when he was but wafted over in a sculler. A slave that hath an extraordinary gift
in pleasing his palate, and will swill up more sack at a sitting than would make all the guard
a posset. His religion is railing, and his discourse ribaldry. They stand highest in his respect
whom he studies most to reproach.

Fastidious Brisk. Or, for a need, on foot can post himself into credit with his merchant, only
with the jingle of his spur, and the jerk of his wand.

Deliro. A good doting citizen, who, it is thought, might be of the common-council for his wealth;
a fellow sincerely besotted on his own wife, and so wrapt with a conceit of her perfections,
that he simply holds himself unworthy of her. And, in that hoodwinked humour, lives more like
a suitor than a husband; standing in as true dread of her displeasure, as when he first made
love to her. He doth sacrifice twopence in juniper to her every morning before she rises, and
wakes her with villainous out-of-tune music, which she out of her contempt (though not out
of her judgment) is sure to dislike.

Fallace. Deliro's wife, and idol; a proud mincing peat, and as perverse as he is officious.
She dotes as perfectly upon the courtier, as her husband doth on her, and only wants the face
to be dishonest.

Saviolina. A court-lady, whose weightiest praise is a light wit, admired by herself, and one
more, her servant Brisk.

Sordido. A wretched hobnailed chuff, whose recreation is reading of almanacks; and felicity,
foul weather. One that never prayed but for a lean dearth, and ever wept in a fat harvest.

Fungoso. The son of Sordido, and a student; one that has revelled in his time, and follows
the fashion afar off, like a spy. He makes it the whole bent of his endeavours to wring sufficient
means from his wretched father, to put him in the courtiers' cut; at which he earnestly aims,
but so unluckily, that he still lights short a suit.

Sogliardo. An essential clown, brother to Sordido, yet so enamoured of the name of a gentleman,
that he will have it though he buys it. He comes up every term to learn to take tobacco, and
see new motions. He is in his kingdom when he can get himself into company where he may be
well laughed at.

Shift. A threadbare shark; one that never was a soldier, yet lives upon lendings. His profession
is skeldring and odling, his bank Paul's, and his warehouse Picthatch. Takes up single testons
upon oath, till doomsday. Falls under executions of three shillings, and enters into five-groat
bonds. He waylays the reports of services, and cons them without book, damning himself he came
new from them, when all the while he was taking the diet in the bawdy-house, or lay pawned
in his chamber for rent and victuals. He is of that admirable and happy memory, that he will
salute one for an old acquaintance that he never saw in his life before. He usurps upon cheats,
quarrels, and robberies, which he never did, only to get him a name. His chief exercises are,
taking the whiff, squiring a cockatrice, and making privy searches for imparters.

Clove and Orange. An inseparable case of coxcombs, city born; the Gemini, or twins of foppery;
that, like a pair of wooden foils, are fit for nothing but to be practised upon. Being well
flattered they'll lend money, and repent when they have done. Their glory is to invite players,
and make suppers. And in company of better rank, to avoid the suspect of insufficiency, will
enforce their ignorance most desperately, to set upon the understanding of anything. Orange
is the most humorous of the two, whose small portion of juice being squeezed out, Clove serves
to stick him with commendations.

Cordatus. The author's friend; a man inly acquainted with the scope and drift of his plot;
of a discreet and understanding judgment; and has the place of a moderator.

Mitis. Is a person of no action, and therefore we have reason to afford him no character.

Of this kind are the

                        CHARACTERS

                            BY

                    SIR THOMAS OVERBURY,

which were not published until 1614, the year after their writer's death, at the age of thirty-two;
but they may have been written earlier than the "Characters of Virtues and Vices"--ethical
characters--written by Joseph Hall, which were first published in 1609.

Sir Thomas Overbury died poisoned in the Tower on the 15th of September 1613. On the 5th of
January 1606, by desire of James the First, the young Earl of Essex, aged fourteen, had been
married to the Lady Frances Howard, aged thirteen, the younger daughter of the Earl of Suffolk.
Ben Jonson's "Masque of Hymen" was produced at Court in celebration of that union. The young
Robert Devereux, third Earl of Essex, had good qualities too solid for the taste of a frivolous
girl; and when, after travel abroad, the husband of eighteen claimed the wife of seventeen,
he found her happy in flirtation with the King's favourite, Sir Robert Carr. Though compelled
to live with her husband, she repelled all his advances, and after three years of this repugnance
tried for a divorce. The King's Scotch favourite, Carr, had been made, in March 1611, an English
peer, as Viscount Rochester, when the age of the young Countess of Essex was nineteen. He was
the man highest in King James's favour. If the divorce sought by the Countess early in 1613
were obtained for her, it was understood that Carr would marry her, and that support of the
divorce would be a way to future benefit through his good offices. Thus she obtained the support
of her father and uncle, the Earls of Suffolk and Northampton. The King's influence went with
the wishes of the favourite. The trial, in 1613, ending in a decree of nullity of marriage,
was a four months' scandal in the land. Among the familiar friends of Robert Carr, Lord Rochester,
was Sir Thomas Overbury, born in Warwickshire in 1581, and knighted by King James in 1608.
He strongly opposed the policy of a divorce obtained on false pretences followed by his patron's
marriage to the divorced wife. The grounds of his opposition may have been part private, part
political. His opposition was determined, and if he offered himself as witness before the Commission,
he probably knew enough about the lady's secret practisings to give such evidence as would
frustrate her designs. It was thought desirable, therefore, to get Overbury out of the way.
The King offered him a post abroad. He was unwilling to accept it, and at last was driven to
an explicit refusal. The King was angry, and caused his Council to commit Sir Thomas Overbury
to the Tower for contempt of His Majesty's commands. He was to be seen by no one, and to have
no servant with him. Sir William Wood, the Lieutenant of the Tower, was superseded, and Sir
Gervase Helwys was put in his place with secret understandings, of which the design may only
have been to prevent Sir Thomas Overbury from saying anything that could come to the ears of
the world until the divorce was granted. But Lady Essex wished Sir Thomas Overbury to be more
effectually silenced. She had tried and failed to get him assassinated. Now she resolved to
get him poisoned. She obtained the employment of a creature of her own, named Weston, as his
immediate keeper. Weston falsely professed to Lady Essex that he had administered the poison
she had given him, and that the result had been not death but loss of health. There is much
uncertainty about the evidence of detail and of the privity of others in the designs of Lady
Essex, who seems at last to have completed her work by the agency of an apothecary's assistant.
He gave the fatal dose in an injection, by which Overbury was killed ten days before the Commission
gave judgment in favour of the divorce. At Christmas the favourite married the divorced wife,
having been created Earl of Somerset, that as his wife she might be Countess still. In the
following year, 1614, Sir Thomas Overbury's "Characters" were published, together with his
Character in verse of A Wife, who was described as "A Wife, now a Widow." This had been published
a little earlier in the same year separately, without any added "Characters." The twenty-one
Characters in that edition were, therefore, not all from one hand. Their popularity is indicated
by the fact that in the next year, 1615, they reached a sixth edition. Three more editions
were published in 1616. This was because interest in the book had been heightened by the Great
Oyer of Poisoning, the trial in May 1616 of the Earl and Countess of Somerset for Overbury's
murder, of which both were found guilty, though the Countess took all guilt upon herself. By
this time the original set of twenty-one Characters had been considerably increased, "with
additions of New Characters and many other Witty Conceits never before Printed;" so that Overbury's
Characters, which had from the first included a few pieces written by his friends, became a
name for the most popular miscellany of pieces of Character Writing current in the Seventeenth
Century, and shows how wit was exercised in this way by half-a-dozen or more of the mob of
gentlemen who wrote with ease. These are the pieces thus at last made current as

SIR THOMAS OVERBURY'S CHARACTERS;

OR,

WITTY DESCRIPTIONS OF THE PROPERTIES OF SUNDRY PERSONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD WOMAN.

A Good Woman is a comfort, like a man. She lacks of him nothing but heat. Thence is her sweetness
of disposition, which meets his stoutness more pleasingly; so wool meets iron easier than iron,
and turns resisting into embracing. Her greatest learning is religion, and her thoughts are
on her own sex, or on men, without casting the difference. Dishonesty never comes nearer than
her ears, and then wonder stops it out, and saves virtue the labour. She leaves the neat youth
telling his luscious tales, and puts back the serving-man's putting forward with a frown: yet
her kindness is free enough to be seen, for it hath no guilt about it; and her mirth is clear,
that you may look through it into virtue, but not beyond. She hath not behaviour at a certain,
but makes it to her occasion. She hath so much knowledge as to love it; and if she have it
not at home, she will fetch it, for this sometimes in a pleasant discontent she dares chide
her sex, though she use it never the worse. She is much within, and frames outward things to
her mind, not her mind to them. She wears good clothes, but never better; for she finds no
degree beyond decency. She hath a content of her own, and so seeks not an husband, but finds
him. She is indeed most, but not much of description, for she is direct and one, and hath not
the variety of ill. Now she is given fresh and alive to a husband, and she doth nothing more
than love him, for she takes him to that purpose. So his good becomes the business of her actions,
and she doth herself kindness upon him. After his, her chiefest virtue is a good husband. For
she is he.

A VERY WOMAN.

A Very Woman is a dough-baked man, or a She meant well towards man, but fell two bows short,
strength and understanding. Her virtue is the hedge, modesty, that keeps a man from climbing
over into her faults. She simpers as if she had no teeth but lips; and she divides her eyes,
and keeps half for herself, and gives the other to her neat youth. Being set down, she casts
her face into a platform, which dureth the meal, and is taken away with the voider. Her draught
reacheth to good manners, not to thirst, and it is a part of their mystery not to profess hunger;
but nature takes her in private and stretcheth her upon meat. She is marriageable and fourteen
at once, and after she doth not live but tarry. She reads over her face every morning, and
sometimes blots out pale and writes red. She thinks she is fair, though many times her opinion
goes alone, and she loves her glass and the knight of the sun for lying. She is hid away all
but her face, and that's hanged about with toys and devices, like the sign of a tavern, to
draw strangers. If she show more she prevents desire, and by too free giving leaves no gift.
She may escape from the serving-man, but not from the chambermaid. Her philosophy is a seeming
neglect of those that be too good for her. She's a younger brother for her portion, but not
for her portion for wit--that comes from her in treble, which is still too big for it; yet
her vanity seldom matcheth her with one of her own degree, for then she will beget another
creature a beggar, and commonly, if she marry better she marries worse. She gets much by the
simplicity of her suitor, and for a jest laughs at him without one. Thus she dresses a husband
for herself, and after takes him for his patience, and the land adjoining, ye may see it, in
a serving-man's fresh napery, and his leg steps into an unknown stocking. I need not speak
of his garters, the tassel shows itself. If she love, she loves not the man, but the best of
him. She is Salomon's cruel creature, and a man's walking consumption; every caudle she gives
him is a purge. Her chief commendation is, she brings a man to repentance.

HER NEXT PART.

Her lightness gets her to swim at top of the table, where her wry little finger bewrays carving;
her neighbours at the latter end know they are welcome, and for that purpose she quencheth
her thirst. She travels to and among, and so becomes a woman of good entertainment, for all
the folly in the country comes in clean linen to visit her; she breaks to them her grief in
sugar cakes, and receives from their mouths in exchange many stories that conclude to no purpose.
Her eldest son is like her howsoever, and that dispraiseth him best; her utmost drift is to
turn him fool, which commonly she obtains at the years of discretion. She takes a journey sometimes
to her niece's house, but never thinks beyond London. Her devotion is good clothes--they carry
her to church, express their stuff and fashion, and are silent if she be more devout; she lifts
up a certain number of eyes instead of prayers, and takes the sermon, and measures out a nap
by it, just as long. She sends religion afore to sixty, where she never overtakes it, or drives
it before her again. Her most necessary instruments are a waiting gentlewoman and a chambermaid;
she wears her gentlewoman still, but most often leaves the other in her chamber window. She
hath a little kennel in her lap, and she smells the sweeter for it. The utmost reach of her
providence is the fatness of a capon, and her greatest envy is the next gentlewoman's better
gown. Her most commendable skill is to make her husband's fustian bear her velvet. This she
doth many times over, and then is delivered to old age and a chair, where everybody leaves her.

A DISSEMBLER

Is an essence needing a double definition, for he is not that he appears. Unto the eye he is
pleasing, unto the ear he is harsh, but unto the understanding intricate and full of windings;
he is the prima materia, and his intents give him form; he dyeth his means and his meaning
into two colours; he baits craft with humility, and his countenance is the picture of the present
disposition. He wins not by battery but undermining, and his rack is smoothing. He allures,
is not allured by his affections, for they are the breakers of his observation. He knows passion
only by sufferance, and resisteth by obeying. He makes his time an accountant to his memory,
and of the humours of men weaves a net for occasion; the inquisitor must look through his judgment,
for to the eye only he is not visible. He smells, and putteth away much of his judgment about
the situation of his clothes. He knows no man that is not generally known. His wit, like the
marigold, openeth with the sun, and therefore he riseth not before ten of the clock. He puts
more confidence in his words than meaning, and more in his pronunciation than his words. Occasion
is his Cupid, and he hath but one receipt of making love. He follows nothing but inconstancy,
admires nothing but beauty, honours nothing but fortune: Loves nothing. The sustenance of his
discourse is news, and his censure, like a shot, depends upon the charging. He is not, if he
be out of court, but fish-like breathes destruction if out of his element. Neither his motion
or aspect are regular, but he moves by the upper spheres, and is the reflection of higher substances.

If you find him not here, you shall in Paul's, with a pick-tooth in his hat, cape-cloak, and
a long stocking.

A GOLDEN ASS

Is a young thing, whose father went to the devil; he is followed like a salt bitch, and limbed
by him that gets up first; his disposition is cut, and knaves rend him like tenter-hooks; he
is as blind as his mother, and swallows flatterers for friends. He is high in his own imagination,
but that imagination is as a stone that is raised by violence, descends naturally. When he
goes, he looks who looks; if he find not good store of vailers, he comes home stiff and sere,
until he be new oiled and watered by his husbandmen. Wheresoever he eats he hath an officer
to warn men not to talk out of his element, and his own is exceeding sensible, because it is
sensual; but he cannot exchange a piece of reason, though he can a piece of gold. He is not
plucked, for his feathers are his beauty, and more than his beauty, they are his discretion,
his countenance, his all. He is now at an end, for he hath had the wolf of vainglory, which
he fed until himself became the food.

A FLATTERER

Is the shadow of a fool. He is a good woodman, for he singleth out none but the wealthy. His
carriage is ever of the colour of his patient; and for his sake he will halt or wear a wry
neck. He dispraiseth nothing but poverty and small drink, and praiseth his Grace of making
water. He selleth himself with reckoning his great friends, and teacheth the present how to
win his praises by reciting the other gifts; he is ready for all employments, but especially
before dinner, for his courage and his stomach go together. He will play any upon his countenance,
and where he cannot be admitted for a counsellor he will serve as a fool. He frequents the
Court of Wards and Ordinaries, and fits these guests of Togae viriles with wives or worse.
He entereth young men into aquaintance with debt-books. In a word, he is the impression of
the last term, and will be so until the coming of a new term or termer.

AN IGNORANT GLORY-HUNTER

Is an insectum animal, for he is the maggot of opinion; his behaviour is another thing from
himself, and is glued and but set on. He entertains men with repetitions, and returns them
their own words. He is ignorant of nothing, no not of those things where ignorance is the lesser
shame. He gets the names of good wits, and utters them for his companions. He confesseth vices
that he is guiltless of, if they be in fashion; and dares not salute a man in old clothes,
or out of fashion. There is not a public assembly without him, and he will take any pains for
an acquaintance there. In any show he will be one, though he be but a whiffler or a torch-bearer,
and bears down strangers with the story of his actions. He handles nothing that is not rare,
and defends his wardrobe, diet, and all customs, with intituling their beginnings from princes,
great soldiers, and strange nations. He dare speak more than he understands, and adventures
his words without the relief of any seconds. He relates battles and skirmishes as from an eyewitness,
when his eyes thievishly beguiled a ballad of them. In a word, to make sure of admiration,
he will not let himself understand himself, but hopes fame and opinion will be the readers
of his riddles.

A TIMIST

Is a noun adjective of the present tense. He hath no more of a conscience than fear, and his
religion is not his but the prince's. He reverenceth a courtier's servant's servant; is first
his own slave, and then whosesoever looketh big. When he gives he curseth, and when he sells
he worships. He reads the statutes in his chamber, and wears the Bible in the streets; he never
praiseth any, but before themselves or friends; and mislikes no great man's actions during
his life. His New Year's gifts are ready at Allhallowmas, and the suit he meant to meditate
before them. He pleaseth the children of great men, and promiseth to adopt them, and his courtesy
extends itself even to the stable. He strains to talk wisely, and his modesty would serve a
bride. He is gravity from the head to the foot, but not from the head to the heart. You may
find what place he affecteth, for he creeps as near it as may be, and as passionately courts
it; if at any time his hopes be affected, he swelleth with them, and they burst out too good
for the vessel. In a word, he danceth to the tune of Fortune, and studies for nothing but to
keep time.

AN AMORIST

Is a man blasted or planet-stricken, and is the dog that leads blind Cupid; when he is at the
best his fashion exceeds the worth of his weight. He is never without verses and musk confects,
and sighs to the hazard of his buttons. His eyes are all white, either to wear the livery of
his mistress' complexion or to keep Cupid from hitting the black. He fights with passion, and
loseth much of his blood by his weapon; dreams, thence his paleness. His arms are carelessly
used, as if their best use was nothing but embracements. He is untrussed, unbuttoned, and ungartered,
not out of carelessness, but care; his farthest end being but going to bed. Sometimes he wraps
his petition in neatness, but he goeth not alone; for then he makes some other quality moralise
his affection, and his trimness is the grace of that grace. Her favour lifts him up as the
sun moisture; when she disfavours, unable to hold that happiness, it falls down in tears. His
fingers are his orators, and he expresseth much of himself upon some instrument. He answers
not, or not to the purpose, and no marvel, for he is not at home. He scotcheth time with dancing
with his mistress, taking up of her glove, and wearing her feather; he is confined to her colour,
and dares not pass out of the circuit of her memory. His imagination is a fool, and it goeth
in a pied coat of red and white. Shortly, he is translated out of a man into folly; his imagination
is the glass of lust, and himself the traitor to his own discretion.

AN AFFECTED TRAVELLER

Is a speaking fashion; he hath taken pains to be ridiculous, and hath seen more than he hath
perceived. His attire speaks French or Italian, and his gait cries, Behold me. He censures
all things by countenances and shrugs, and speaks his own language with shame and lisping;
he will choke rather than confess beer good drink, and his pick-tooth is a main part of his
behaviour. He chooseth rather to be counted a spy than not a politician, and maintains his
reputation by naming great men familiarly. He chooseth rather to tell lies than not wonders,
and talks with men singly; his discourse sounds big, but means nothing; and his boy is bound
to admire him howsoever. He comes still from great personages, but goes with mean. He takes
occasion to show jewels given him in regard of his virtue, that were bought in St. Martin's;
and not long after having with a mountebank's method pronounced them worth thousands, impawneth
them for a few shillings. Upon festival days he goes to court, and salutes without resaluting;
at night in an ordinary he canvasseth the business in hand, and seems as conversant with all
intents and plots as if he begot them. His extraordinary account of men is, first to tell them
the ends of all matters of consequence, and then to borrow money of them; he offers courtesies
to show them, rather than himself, humble. He disdains all things above his reach, and preferreth
all countries before his own. He imputeth his want and poverty to the ignorance of the time,
not his own unworthiness; and concludes his discourse with half a period, or a word, and leaves
the rest to imagination. In a word, his religion is fashion, and both body and soul are governed
by fame; he loves most voices above truth.

A WISE MAN

Is the truth of the true definition of man, that is, a reasonable creature. His disposition
alters; he alters not. He hides himself with the attire of the vulgar; and in indifferent things
is content to be governed by them. He looks according to nature; so goes his behaviour. His
mind enjoys a continual smoothness; so cometh it that his consideration is always at home.
He endures the faults of all men silently, except his friends, and to them he is the mirror
of their actions; by this means, his peace cometh not from fortune, but himself. He is cunning
in men, not to surprise, but keep his own, and beats off their ill-affected humours no otherwise
than if they were flies. He chooseth not friends by the Subsidy-book, and is not luxurious
after acquaintance. He maintains the strength of his body, not by delicates but temperance;
and his mind, by giving it pre-eminence over his body. He understands things, not by their
form, but qualities; and his comparisons intend not to excuse but to provoke him higher. He
is not subject to casualties, for fortune hath nothing to do with the mind, except those drowned
in the body; but he hath divided his soul from the case of his soul, whose weakness he assists
no otherwise than commiseratively--not that it is his, but that it is. He is thus, and will
be thus; and lives subject neither to time nor his frailties, the servant of virtue, and by
virtue the friend of the highest.

A NOBLE SPIRIT

Hath surveyed and fortified his disposition, and converts all occurrents into experience, between
which experience and his reason there is marriage; the issue are his actions. He circuits his
intents, and seeth the end before he shoot. Men are the instruments of his art, and there is
no man without his use. He calls not the variety of the world chances, for his meditation hath
travelled over them, and his eye, mounted upon his understanding, seeth them as things underneath.
He covers not his body with delicacies, nor excuseth these delicacies by his body, but teacheth
it, since it is not able to defend its own imbecility, to show or suffer. He knows the condition
of the world, that he must act one thing like another, and then another. To these he carries
his desires, and not his desires him, and sticks not fast by the way (for that contentment
is repentance), but knowing the circle of all courses, of all intents, of all things, to have
but one centre or period, without all distraction, he hasteth thither and ends there, as his
true and natural element. He doth not contemn Fortune, but not confess her. He is no gamester
of the world (which only complain and praise her), but being only sensible of the honesty of
actions, contemns a particular profit as the excrement of scum.

AN OLD MAN

Is a thing that hath been a man in his days. Old men are to be known blindfolded, for their
talk is as terrible as their resemblance. They praise their own times as vehemently as if they
would sell them. They become wrinkled with frowning and facing youth; they admire their old
customs, even to the eating of red herring and going wetshod. They cast the thumb under the
girdle, gravity; and because they can hardly smell at all their posies are under their girdles.
They count it an ornament of speech to close the period with a cough; and it is venerable (they
say) to spend time in wiping their drivelled beards. Their discourse is unanswerable, by reason
of their obstinacy; their speech is much, though little to the purpose. Truths and lies pass
with an unequal affirmation; for their memories several are won into one receptacle, and so
they come out with one sense. They teach their servants their duties with as much scorn and
tyranny as some people teach their dogs to fetch. Their envy is one of their diseases. They
put off and on their clothes with that certainty, as if they knew their heads would not direct
them, and therefore custom should. They take a pride in halting and going stiffly, and therefore
their staves are carved and tipped; they trust their attire with much of their gravity; and
they dare not go without a gown in summer. Their hats are brushed, to draw men's eyes off from
their faces; but of all, their pomanders are worn to most purpose, for their putrified breath
ought not to want either a smell to defend or a dog to excuse.

A COUNTRY GENTLEMAN

Is a thing, out of whose corruption the generation of a Justice of Peace is produced. He speaks
statutes and husbandry well enough to make his neighbours think him a wise man; he is well
skilled in arithmetic or rates, and hath eloquence enough to save twopence. His conversation
amongst his tenants is desperate, but amongst his equals full of doubt. His travel is seldom
farther than the next market town, and his inquisition is about the price of corn. When he
travelleth he will go ten miles out of the way to a cousin's house of his to save charges;
he rewards the servant by taking him by the hand when he departs. Nothing under a subpoena
can draw him to London; and when he is there he sticks fast upon every object, casts his eyes
away upon gazing, and becomes the prey of every cutpurse. When he comes home, those wonders
serve him for his holiday talk. If he go to court it is in yellow stockings; and if it be in
winter, in a slight taffety cloak, and pumps and pantofles. He is chained that woos the usher
for his coming into the presence, where he becomes troublesome with the ill-managing of his
rapier, and the wearing of his girdle of one fashion, and the hangers of another. By this time
he hath learned to kiss his hand, and make a leg both together, and the names of lords and
councillors. He hath thus much toward entertainment and courtesy, but of the last he makes
more use, for, by the recital of my lord, he conjures his poor countrymen. But this is not
his element; he must home again, being like a dor, that ends his flight in a dunghill.

A FINE GENTLEMAN

Is the cinnamon tree, whose bark is more worth than his body. He hath read the book of good
manners, and by this time each of his limbs may read it. He alloweth of no judge but the eye:
painting, bolstering, and bombasting are his orators. By these also he proves his industry,
for he hath purchased legs, hair, beauty, and straightness, more than nature left him. He unlocks
maidenheads with his language, and speaks Euphues, not so gracefully as heartily. His discourse
makes not his behaviour; but he buys it at court, as countrymen their clothes in Birchin Lane.
He is somewhat like the salamander, and lives in the flame of love, which pains he expresseth
comically. And nothing grieves him so much as the want of a poet to make an issue in his love.
Yet he sighs sweetly and speaks lamentably, for his breath is perfumed and his words are wind.
He is best in season at Christmas, for the boar's head and reveller come together. His hopes
are laden in his quality; and, lest fiddlers should take him unprovided, he wears pumps in
his pocket; and, lest he should take fiddlers unprovided, he whistles his own galliard. He
is a calendar of ten years, and marriage rusts him. Afterwards he maintains himself an implement
of household, by carving and ushering. For all this, he is judicial only in tailors and barbers;
but his opinion is ever ready, and ever idle. If you will know more of his acts, the broker's
shop is the witness of his valour, where lies wounded, dead rent, and out of fashion, many
a spruce suit, overthrown by his fantasticness.

AN ELDER BROTHER

Is a creature born to the best advantage of things without him; that hath the start at the
beginning, but loiters it away before the ending. He looks like his land, as heavily and dirtily,
as stubbornly. He dares do anything but fight, and fears nothing but his father's life, and
minority. The first thing he makes known is his estate, and the loadstone that draws him is
the upper end of the table. He wooeth by a particular, and his strongest argument is all about
the jointure. His observation is all about the fashion, and he commends partlets for a rare
device. He speaks no language, but smells of dogs or hawks, and his ambition flies justice-height.
He loves to be commended; and he will go into the kitchen but he'll have it. He loves glory,
but is so lazy as he is content with flattery. He speaks most of the precedency of age, and
protests fortune the greatest virtue. He summoneth the old servants, and tells what strange
acts he will do when he reigns. He verily believes housekeepers the best commonwealths-men,
and therefore studies baking, brewing, greasing, and such, as the limbs of goodness. He judgeth
it no small sign of wisdom to talk much; his tongue therefore goes continually his errand,
but never speeds. If his understanding were not honester than his will, no man should keep
good conceit by him, for he thinks it no theft to sell all he can to opinion. His pedigree
and his father's seal-ring are the stilts of his crazed disposition. He had rather keep company
with the dregs of men than not to be the best man. His insinuation is the inviting of men to
his house; and he thinks it a great modesty to comprehend his cheer under a piece of mutton
and a rabbit. If he by this time be not known, he will go home again, for he can no more abide
to have himself concealed than his land. Yet he is (as you see) good for nothing, except to
make a stallion to maintain the race.

A BRAGGADOCIO WELSHMAN

Is the oyster that the pearl is in, for a man may be picked out of him. He hath the abilities
of the mind in potentia, and actu nothing but boldness. His clothes are in fashion before his
body, and he accounts boldness the chiefest virtue. Above all men he loves an herald, and speaks
pedigrees naturally. He accounts none well descended that call him not cousin, and prefers
Owen Glendower before any of the Nine Worthies. The first note of his familiarity is the confession
of his valour, and so he prevents quarrels. He voucheth Welsh a pure and unconquered language,
and courts ladies with the story of their chronicle. To conclude, he is precious in his own
conceit, and upon St. David's Day without comparison.

A PEDANT.

He treads in a rule, and one hand scans verses, and the other holds his sceptre. He dares not
think a thought that the nominative case governs not the verb; and he never had meaning in
his life, for he travelled only for words. His ambition is criticism, and his example Tully.
He values phrases, and elects them by the sound, and the eight parts of speech are his servants.
To be brief, he is a Heteroclite, for he wants the plural number, having only the single quality
of words.

A SERVING-MAN

Is a creature, which, though he be not drunk, yet is not his own man. He tells without asking
who owns him, by the superscription of his livery. His life is for ease and leisure, much about
gentleman-like. His wealth enough to suffice nature, and sufficient to make him happy, if he
were sure of it, for he hath little, and wants nothing; he values himself higher or lower as
his master is. He hates or loves the men as his master doth the master. He is commonly proud
of his master's horses or his Christmas; he sleeps when he is sleepy, is of his religion, only
the clock of his stomach is set to go an hour after his. He seldom breaks his own clothes.
He never drinks but double, for he must be pledged; nor commonly without some short sentence
nothing to the purpose, and seldom abstains till he comes to a thirst. His discretion is to
be careful for his master's credit, and his sufficiency to marshal dishes at a table, and to
carve well; his neatness consists much in his hair and outward linen; his courting language,
visible coarse jests; and against his matter fail, he is always ready furnished with a song.
His inheritance is the chambermaid, but often purchaseth his master's daughter, by reason of
opportunity, or for want of a better, he always cuckolds himself, and never marries but his
own widow. His master being appeased, he becomes a retainer, and entails himself and his posterity
upon his heir-males for ever.

AN HOST

Is the kernel of a sign; or the sign is the shell, and mine host is the snail. He consists
of double beer and fellowship, and his vices are the bawds of his thirst. He entertains humbly,
and gives his guests power, as well of himself as house. He answers all men's expectations
to his power, save in the reckoning; and hath gotten the trick of greatness, to lay all mislikes
upon his servants. His wife is the common seed of his dove-house; and to be a good guest is
a warrant for her liberty. He traffics for guests by men-friends' friends' friends, and is
sensible only of his purse. In a word, he is none of his own; for he neither eats, drinks,
or thinks, but at other men's charges and appointments.

AN OSTLER

Is a thing that scrubbeth unreasonably his horse, reasonably himself. He consists of travellers,
though he be none himself. His highest ambition is to be host, and the invention of his sign
is his greatest wit, for the expressing whereof he sends away the painters for want of understanding.
He hath certain charms for a horse mouth, that he should not eat his hay; and behind your back
he will cozen your horse to his face. His curry-comb is one of his best parts, for he expresseth
much by the jingling; and his mane-comb is a spinner's card turned out of service. He puffs
and blows over your horse, to the hazard of a double jug, and leaves much of the dressing to
the proverb of muli mutuo scabient, one horse rubs another. He comes to him that calls loudest,
not first; he takes a broken head patiently, but the knave he feels it not; utmost honesty
is good fellowship, and he speaks northern, what countryman soever. He hath a pension of ale
from the next smith and saddler for intelligence; he loves to see you ride, and hold your stirrup
in expectation.

THE TRUE CHARACTER OF A DUNCE.

He hath a soul drowned in a lump of flesh, or is a piece of earth that Prometheus put not half
his proportion of fire into. A thing that hath neither edge of desire nor feeling of affection
in it; the most dangerous creature for confirming an atheist, who would swear his soul were
nothing but the bare temperature of his body. He sleeps as he goes, and his thoughts seldom
reach an inch further than his eyes. The most part of the faculties of his soul lie fallow,
or are like the restive jades that no spur can drive forward towards the pursuit of any worthy
designs. One of the most unprofitable of God's creatures, being as he is a thing put clean
beside the right use; made fit for the cart and the flail, and by mischance entangled amongst
books and papers. A man cannot tell possibly what he is now good for, save to move up and down
and fill room, or to serve as animatum instrumentum, for others to work withal in base employments,
or to be foil for better wits, or to serve (as they say monsters do) to set out the variety
of nature, and ornament of the universe. He is mere nothing of himself, neither eats, nor drinks,
nor goes, nor spits, but by imitation, for all which he hath set forms and fashions, which
he never varies, but sticks to with the like plodding constancy that a mill-horse follows his
trace. But the Muses and the Graces are his hard mistresses; though he daily invocate them,
though he sacrifice hecatombs, they still look asquint. You shall note him (besides his dull
eye, and lowering head, and a certain clammy benumbed pace) by a fair displayed beard, a night-cap,
and a gown, whose very wrinkles proclaim him the true genius of familiarity. But of all others,
his discourse and compositions best speak him, both of them are much of one stuff and fashion.
He speaks just what his books or last company said unto him, without varying one whit, and
very seldom understands himself. You may know by his discourse where he was last; for what
he heard or read yesterday, he now dischargeth his memory or note-book of--not his understanding,
for it never came there. What he hath he flings abroad at all adventures, without accommodating
it to time, place, or persons, or occasions. He commonly loseth himself in his tale, and flutters
up and down windless without recovery, and whatsoever next presents itself, his heavy conceit
seizeth upon, and goeth along with, however heterogeneal to his matter in hand. His jests are
either old fled proverbs, or lean-starved hackney apophthegms, or poor verbal quips, outworn
by serving-men, tapsters, and milkmaids, even laid aside by balladers. He assents to all men
that bring any shadow of reason, and you may make him when he speaks most dogmatically even
with one breath, to aver poor contradictions. His compositions differ only terminorum positione
from dreams; nothing but rude heaps of immaterial, incoherent, drossy, rubbishy stuff, promiscuously
thrust up together; enough to infuse dulness and barrenness in conceit into him that is so
prodigal of his ears as to give the hearing; enough to make a man's memory ache with suffering
such dirty stuff cast into it. As unwelcome to any true conceit, as sluttish morsels or wallowish
potions to a nice stomach, which whiles he empties himself, it sticks in his teeth, nor can
he be delivered without sweat, and sighs, and hems, and coughs enough to shake his grandam's
teeth out of her head. He spits, and scratches, and spawls, and turns like sick men from one
elbow to another, and deserves as much pity during his torture as men in fits of tertian fevers,
or self-lashing penitentiaries. In a word, rip him quite asunder, and examine every shred of
him, you shall find of him to be just nothing but the subject of nothing; the object of contempt;
yet such as he is you must take him, for there is no hope he should ever become better.

A GOOD WIFE

Is a man's best movable, a scion incorporate with the stock, bringing sweet fruit; one that
to her husband is more than a friend, less than trouble; an equal with him in the yoke. Calamities
and troubles she shares alike, nothing pleaseth her that doth not him. She is relative in all,
and he without her but half himself. She is his absent hands, eyes, ears, and mouth; his present
and absent all. She frames her nature unto his howsoever; the hyacinth follows not the sun
more willingly. Stubbornness and obstinacy are herbs that grow not in her garden. She leaves
tattling to the gossips of the town, and is more seen than heard. Her household is her charge;
her care to that makes her seldom non-resident. Her pride is but to be cleanly, and her thrift
not to be prodigal. By her discretion she hath children not wantons; a husband without her
is a misery to man's apparel: none but she hath an aged husband, to whom she is both a staff
and a chair. To conclude, she is both wise and religious, which makes her all this.

A MELANCHOLY MAN

Is a strayer from the drove: one that Nature made a sociable, because she made him man, and
a crazed disposition hath altered. Unpleasing to all, as all to him; straggling thoughts are
his content, they make him dream waking, there's his pleasure. His imagination is never idle,
it keeps his mind in a continual motion, as the poise the clock: he winds up his thoughts often,
and as often unwinds them; Penelope's web thrives faster. He'll seldom be found without the
shade of some grove, in whose bottom a river dwells. He carries a cloud in his face, never
fair weather; his outside is framed to his inside, in that he keeps a decorum, both unseemly.
Speak to him; he hears with his eyes, ears follow his mind, and that's not at leisure. He thinks
business, but never does any; he is all contemplation, no action. He hews and fashions his
thoughts, as if he meant them to some purpose, but they prove unprofitable, as a piece of wrought
timber to no use. His spirits and the sun are enemies: the sun bright and warm, his humour
black and cold; variety of foolish apparitions people his head, they suffer him not to breathe
according to the necessities of nature, which makes him sup up a draught of as much air at
once as would serve at thrice. He denies nature her due in sleep, and nothing pleaseth him
long, but that which pleaseth his own fantasies; they are the consuming evils, and evil consumptions
that consume him alive. Lastly, he is a man only in show; but comes short of the better part,
a whole reasonable soul, which is man's chief pre-eminence and sole mark from creatures sensible.

A SAILOR

Is a pitched piece of reason caulked and tackled, and only studied to dispute with tempests.
He is part of his own provision, for he lives ever pickled. A fore-wind is the substance of
his creed, and fresh water the burden of his prayers. He is naturally ambitious, for he is
ever climbing; out of which as naturally he fears, for he is ever flying. Time and he are everywhere
ever contending who shall arrive first; he is well-winded, for he tires the day, and outruns
darkness. His life is like a hawk's, the best part mewed; and if he live till three coats,
is a master. He sees God's wonders in the deep, but so as rather they appear his playfellows
than stirrers of his zeal. Nothing but hunger and hard rocks can convert him, and then but
his upper deck neither; for his hold neither fears nor hopes, his sleeps are but reprievals
of his dangers, and when he wakes 'tis but next stage to dying. His wisdom is the coldest part
about him, for it ever points to the north, and it lies lowest, which makes his valour every
tide overflow it. In a storm it is disputable whether the noise be more his or the elements,
and which will first leave scolding; on which side of the ship he may be saved best, whether
his faith be starboard faith or larboard, or the helm at that time not all his hope of heaven.
His keel is the emblem of his conscience, till it be split he never repents, then no farther
than the land allows him, and his language is a new confusion, and all his thoughts new nations.
His body and his ship are both one burden, nor is it known who stows most wine or rolls most;
only the ship is guided, he has no stern. A barnacle and he are bred together, both of one
nature, and it is feared one reason. Upon any but a wooden horse he cannot ride, and if the
wind blow against him he dare not. He swerves up to his seat as to a sail-yard, and cannot
sit unless he bear a flagstaff. If ever he be broken to the saddle, it is but a voyage still,
for he mistakes the bridle for a bowline, and is ever turning his horse-tail. He can pray,
but it is by rote, not faith, and when he would he dares not, for his brackish belief hath
made that ominous. A rock or a quicksand plucks him before he be ripe, else he is gathered
to his friends at Wapping.

A SOLDIER

Is the husbandman of valour; his sword is his plough, which honour and aqua vita, two fiery-metalled
jades, are ever drawing. A younger brother best becomes arms, an elder the thanks for them.
Every heat makes him a harvest, and discontents abroad are his sowers. He is actively his prince's,
but passively his anger's servant. He is often a desirer of learning, which once arrived at,
proves his strongest armour. He is a lover at all points, and a true defender of the faith
of women. More wealth than makes him seem a handsome foe, lightly he covets not, less is below
him. He never truly wants but in much having, for then his ease and lechery afflict him. The
word peace, though in prayer, makes him start, and God he best considers by His power. Hunger
and cold rank in the same file with him, and hold him to a man; his honour else, and the desire
of doing things beyond him, would blow him greater than the sons of Anak. His religion is,
commonly, as his cause is, doubtful, and that the best devotion keeps best quarter. He seldom
sees grey hairs, some none at all, for where the sword fails, there the flesh gives fire. In
charity he goes beyond the clergy, for he loves his greatest enemy best, much drinking. He
seems a full student, for he is a great desirer of controversies; he argues sharply, and carries
his conclusion in his scabbard. In the first refining of mankind this was the gold, his actions
are his amel. His alloy (for else you cannot work him perfectly) continual duties, heavy and
weary marches, lodgings as full of need as cold diseases. No time to argue, but to execute.
Line him with these, and link him to his squadrons, and he appears a most rich chain for princes.

A TAILOR

Is a creature made up of threads that were pared off from Adam, when he was rough cast; the
end of his being differeth from that of others, and is not to serve God, but to cover sin.
Other men's pride is the best patron, and their negligence a main passage to his profit. He
is a thing of more than ordinary judgment: for by virtue of that he buyeth land, buildeth houses,
and raiseth the set roof of his cross-legged fortune. His actions are strong encounters, and
for their notoriousness always upon record. It is neither Amadis de Gaul, nor the Knight of
the Sun, that is able to resist them. A ten-groat fee setteth them on foot, and a brace of
officers bringeth them to execution. He handleth the Spanish pike to the hazard of many poor
Egyptian vermin; and in show of his valour, scorneth a greater gauntlet than will cover the
top of his middle finger. Of all weapons he most affecteth the long bill; and this he will
manage to the great prejudice of a customer's estate. His spirit, notwithstanding, is not so
much as to make you think him man; like a true mongrel, he neither bites nor barks but when
your back is towards him. His heart is a lump of congealed snow: Prometheus was asleep while
it was making. He differeth altogether from God; for with him the best pieces are still marked
out for damnation, and, without hope of recovery, shall be cast down into hell. He is partly
an alchemist; for he extracteth his own apparel out of other men's clothes; and when occasion
serveth, making a broker's shop his alembic, can turn your silks into gold, and having furnished
his necessities, after a month or two, if he be urged unto it, reduce them again to their proper
subsistence. He is in part likewise an arithmetician, cunning enough for multiplication and
addition, but cannot abide subtraction: summa totalis is the language of his Canaan, and usque
ad ultimum quadrantem the period of all his charity. For any skill in geometry I dare not commend
him, for he could never yet find out the dimensions of his own conscience; notwithstanding
he hath many bottoms, it seemeth this is always bottomless. And so with a libera nos a malo
I leave you, promising to amend whatsoever is amiss at his next setting.

A PURITAN

Is a diseased piece of apocalypse: bind him to the Bible, and he corrupts the whole text. 'Ignorance
and fat feed are his founders; his nurses, railing, rabies, and round breeches. His life is
but a borrowed blast of wind: for between two religions, as between two doors, he is ever whistling.
Truly, whose child he is is yet unknown; for, willingly, his faith allows no father: only thus
far his pedigree is found, Bragger and he flourished about a time first. His fiery zeal keeps
him continually costive, which withers him into his own translation; and till he eat a schoolman
he is hide-bound. He ever prays against non-residents, but is himself the greatest discontinuer,
for he never keeps near his text. Anything that the law allows, but marriage and March beer,
he murmurs at; what it disallows and holds dangerous, makes him a discipline. Where the gate
stands open, he is ever seeking a stile; and where his learning ought to climb, he creeps through.
Give him advice, you run into traditions; and urge a modest course, he cries out counsel. His
greatest care is to contemn obedience; his last care to serve God handsomely and cleanly. He
is now become so cross a kind of teaching, that should the Church enjoin clean shirts, he were
lousy. More sense than single prayers is not his; nor more in those than still the same petitions:
from which he either fears a learned faith, or doubts God understands not at first hearing.
Show him a ring, he runs back like a bear; and hates square dealing as allied to caps. A pair
of organs blow him out of the parish, and are the only glyster-pipes to cool him. Where the
meat is best, there he confutes most, for his arguing is but the efficacy of his eating: good
bits he holds breed good positions, and the Pope he best concludes against in plum-broth. He
is often drunk, but not as we are, temporally; nor can his sleep then cure him, for the fumes
of his ambition make his very soul reel, and that small beer that should allay him (silence)
keeps him more surfeited, and makes his heat break out in private houses. Women and lawyers
are his best disciples; the one, next fruit, longs for forbidden doctrine, the other to maintain
forbidden titles, both which he sows amongst them. Honest he dare not be, for that loves order;
yet, if he can be brought to ceremony and made but master of it, he is converted.

A MERE COMMON LAWYER

Is the best shadow to make a discreet one show the fairer. He is a materia prima informed by
reports, actuated by statutes, and hath his motion by the favourable intelligence of the Court.
His law is always furnished with a commission to arraign his conscience; but, upon judgment
given, he usually sets it at large. He thinks no language worth knowing but his Barragouin:
only for that point he hath been a long time at wars with Priscian for a northern province.
He imagines that by sure excellency his profession only is learning, and that it is a profanation
of the Temple to his Themis dedicated, if any of the liberal arts be there admitted to offer
strange incense to her. For, indeed, he is all for money. Seven or eight years squires him
out, some of his nation less standing; and ever since the night of his call, he forgot much
what he was at dinner. The next morning his man (in actu or potentia) enjoys his pickadels.
His laundress is then shrewdly troubled in fitting him a ruff, his perpetual badge. His love-letters
of the last year of his gentlemanship are stuffed with discontinuances, remitters, and uncore
priests; but, now being enabled to speak in proper person, he talks of a French hood instead
of a jointure, wags his law, and joins issue. Then he begins to stick his letters in his ground
chamber-window, that so the superscription may make his squireship transparent. His heraldry
gives him place before the minister, because the Law was before the Gospel. Next term he walks
his hoopsleeve gown to the hall; there it proclaims him. He feeds fat in the reading, and till
it chance to his turn, dislikes no house order so much as that the month is so contracted to
a fortnight. Amongst his country neighbours he arrogates as much honour for being reader of
an Inn of Chancery, as if it had been of his own house; for they, poor souls, take law and
conscience, Court and Chancery, for all one. He learned to frame his case from putting riddles
and imitating Merlin's prophecies, and to set all the Cross Row together by the ears; yet his
whole law is not able to decide Lucan's one old controversy betwixt Tau and Sigma. He accounts
no man of his cap and coat idle, but who trots not the circuit. He affects no life or quality
for itself, but for gain; and that, at least, to the stating him in a Justice of Peace-ship,
which is the first quickening soul superadded to the elementary and inanimate form of his new
tide. His terms are his wife's vacations; yet she then may usurp divers Court-days, and has
her returns in mensem for writs of entry--often shorter. His vacations are her termers; but
in assize time (the circuit being long) he may have a trial at home against him by nisi prius.
No way to heaven, he thinks, so wise as through Westminster Hall; and his clerks commonly through
it visit both heaven and hell. Yet then he oft forgets his journey's end, although he look
on the Star-Chamber. Neither is he wholly destitute of the arts. Grammar he has enough to make
termination of those words which his authority hath endenizoned rhetoric-some; but so little
that it is thought a concealment. Logic, enough to wrangle. Arithmetic, enough for the ordinals
of his year-books and number-rolls; but he goes not to multiplication, there is a statute against
it. So much geometry, that he can advise in a perambulatione fadenda, or a rationalibus divisis.
In astronomy and astrology he is so far seen, that by the Dominical letter he knows the holy-days,
and finds by calculation that Michaelmas term will be long and dirty. Marry, he knows so much
in music that he affects only the most and cunningest discords; rarely a perfect concord, especially
song, except in fine. His skill in perspective endeavours much to deceive the eye of the law,
and gives many false colours. He is specially practised in necromancy (such a kind as is out
of the Statute of Primo), by raising many dead questions. What sufficiency he hath in criticism,
the foul copies of his special pleas will tell you. Many of the same coat, which are much to
be honoured, partake of divers of his indifferent qualities; but so that discretion, virtue,
and sometimes other good learning, concurring and distinguishing ornaments to them, make them
as foils to set their work on.

A MERE SCHOLAR.

A mere scholar is an intelligible ass, or a silly fellow in black that speaks sentences more
familiarly than sense. The antiquity of his University is his creed, and the excellency of
his college (though but for a match at football) an article of his faith. He speaks Latin better
than his mother-tongue, and is a stranger in no part of the world but his own country. He does
usually tell great stories of himself to small purpose, for they are commonly ridiculous, be
they true or false. His ambition is that he either is or shall be a graduate; but if ever he
get a fellowship, he has then no fellow. In spite of all logic he dares swear and maintain
it, that a cuckold and a town's-man are termini convertibles, though his mother's husband be
an alderman. He was never begotten (as it seems) without much wrangling, for his whole life
is spent in pro et contra. His tongue goes always before his wit, like gentleman-usher, but
somewhat faster. That he be a complete gallant in all points, cap-à-pie, witness his horsemanship
and the wearing of his weapons. He is commonly long-winded, able to speak more with ease than
any man can endure to hear with patience. University jests are his universal discourse, and
his news the demeanour of the proctors. His phrase, the apparel of his mind, is made of divers
shreds, like a cushion, and when it goes plainest it hath a rash outside and fustian linings.
The current of his speech is closed with an ergo; and, whatever be the question, the truth
is on his side. It is a wrong to his reputation to be ignorant of anything; and yet he knows
not that he knows nothing. He gives directions for husbandry, from Virgil's "Georgics;" for
cattle, from his "Bucolics;" for warlike stratagems, from his "Æneids" or Caesar's "Commentaries."
He orders all things and thrives in none; skilful in all trades and thrives in none. He is
led more by his ears than his understanding, taking the sound of words for their true sense,
and does therefore confidently believe that Erra Pater was the father of heretics, Radulphus
Agricola a substantial farmer, and will not stick to aver that Systemo's Logic doth excel Keckerman's.
His ill-luck is not so much in being a fool, as in being put to such pains to express it to
the world, for what in others is natural, in him (with much ado) is artificial. His poverty
is his happiness, for it makes some men believe that he is none of fortune's favourites. That
learning which he hath was in non age put in backward like a glyster, and it's now like ware
mislaid in a pedlar's pack; a has it, but knows not where it is. In a word, his is the index
of a man and the title-page of a scholar, or a puritan in morality--much in profession, nothing
in practice.

A TINKER

Is a movable, for he hath no abiding-place; by his motion he gathers heat, thence his choleric
nature. He seems to be very devout, for his life is a continual pilgrimage, and sometimes in
humility goes barefoot, thereon making necessity a virtue. His house is as ancient as Tubal
Cain's, and so is a renegade by antiquity: yet he proves himself a gallant, for he carries
all his wealth upon his back; or a philosopher, for he bears all his substance about him. From
his art was music first invented, and therefore he is always furnished with a song, to which
his hammer keeping tune, proves that he was the first founder for the kettledrum. Note, that
where the best ale is, there stands his music most upon crochets. The companion of his travels
is some foul sun-burnt quean, that, since the terrible statute, recanted gipseyism and is turned
pedlaress. So marches he all over England with his bag and baggage. His conversation is unreprovable,
for he is ever mending. He embraceth naturally ancient custom, conversing in open fields and
lowly cottages. If he visit cities or towns, 'tis but to deal upon the imperfections of our
weaker vessels. Some will take him to be a coward, but believe it, he is a lad of metal; his
valour is commonly three or four yards long, fastened to a pike in the end for flying off.
He is provident, for he will fight but with one at once, and then also he had rather submit
than be counted obstinate. To conclude, if he escape Tyburn and Banbury, he dies a beggar.

AN APPARITOR

Is a chick of the egg abuse, hatched by the warmth of authority; he is a bird of rapine, and
begins to prey and feather together. He croaks like a raven against the death of rich men,
and so gets a legacy unbequeathed. His happiness is in the multitude of children, for their
increase is his wealth, and to that end he himself yearly adds one. He is a cunning hunter,
uncoupling his intelligencing hounds under hedges, in thickets and cornfields, who follow the
chase to city suburbs, where often his game is at covert; his quiver hangs by his side stuffed
with silver arrows, which he shoots against church-gates and private men's doors, to the hazard
of their purses and credit. There went but a pair of shears between him and the pursuivant
of hell, for they both delight in sin, grow richer by it, and are by justice appointed to punish
it; only the devil is more cunning, for he picks a living out of others' gains. His living
lieth in his eye, which (like spirits) he sends through chinks and keyholes to survey the places
of darkness; for which purpose he studieth the optics, but can discover no colour but black,
for the pure white of chastity dazzleth his eyes. He is a Catholic, for he is everywhere; and
with a politic, for he transforms himself into all shapes. He travels on foot to avoid idleness,
and loves the Church entirely, because it is the place of his edification. He accounts not
all sins mortal, for fornication with him is a venial sin, and to take bribes a matter of charity;
he is collector for burnings and losses at sea, and in casting account readily subtracts the
lesser from the greater sum. Thus lives he in a golden age, till death by a process summons
him to appear.

AN ALMANAC-MAKER

Is the worst part of an astronomer; a certain compact of figures, characters, and ciphers,
out of which he scores the fortune of a year, not so profitably as doubtfully. He is tenant
by custom to the planets, of whom he holds the twelve houses by lease parol; to them he pays
yearly rent, his study and time, yet lets them out again with all his heart for 40s. per annum.
His life is merely contemplative; for his practice, 'tis worth nothing, at least not worthy
of credit, and if by chance he purchase any, he loseth it again at the year's end, for time
brings truth to light. Ptolemy and Tycho Brahe are his patrons, whose volumes he understands
not but admires, and the rather because they are strangers, and so easier to be credited than
controlled. His life is upright, for he is always looking upward, yet dares believe nothing
above primum mobile, for 'tis out of the reach of his Jacob's staff. His charity extends no
further than to mountebanks and sow-gelders, to whom he bequeaths the seasons of the year to
kill or torture by. The verses of his book have a worse pace than ever had Rochester hackney;
for his prose, 'tis dappled with ink-horn terms, and may serve for an almanac; but for his
judging at the uncertainty of weather, any old shepherd shall make a dunce of him. He would
be thought the devil's intelligencer for stolen goods, if ever he steal out of that quality.
As a fly turns to a maggot, so the corruption of the cunning man is the generation of an empiric;
his works fly forth in small volumes, yet not all, for many ride post to chandlers and tobacco
shops in folio. To be brief, he falls three degrees short of his promises, yet is he the key
to unlock terms and law days, a dumb mercury to point out highways, and a bailiff of all marts
and fairs in England. The rest of him you shall know next year, for what he will be then he
himself knows not.

A HYPOCRITE

Is a gilded pill, composed of two virtuous ingredients, natural dishonesty and artificial dissimulation.
Simple fruit, plant, or drug he is none, but a deformed mixture bred betwixt evil nature and
false art by a monstrous generation, and may well be put into the reckoning of those creatures
that God never made. In Church or commonwealth (for in both these this mongrel weed will shoot)
it is hard to say whether he be physic or a disease, for he is both in divers respects.

As he is gilt with an outside of seeming purity, or as he offereth himself to you to be taken
down in a cup or taste of golden zeal and simplicity, you may call him physic. Nay, and never
let potion give patient good stool if, being truly tasted and relished, he be not as loathsome
to the stomach of any honest man.

He is also physic in being as commodious for use as he is odious in taste, if the body of the
company into which he is taken can make true use of him. For the malice of his nature makes
him so informer-like-dangerous, in taking advantage of anything done or said, yea, even to
the ruin of his makers, if he may have benefit, that such a creature in a society makes men
as careful of their speeches and actions as the sight of a known cut-purse in a throng makes
them watchful over their purses and pockets. He is also in this respect profitable physic,
that his conversation being once truly tasted and discovered, the hateful foulness of it will
make those that are not fully like him to purge all such diseases as are rank in him out of
their own lives, as the sight of some citizens on horseback make a judicious man amend his
own faults in horsemanship. If one of these uses can be made of him, let him not long offend
the stomach of your company; your best way is to spue him out. That he is a disease in the
body where he liveth were as strange a thing to doubt as whether there be knavery in horse-coursers.
For if among sheep, the rot; amongst dogs, the mange; amongst horses, the glanders; amongst
men and women, the Northern itch and the French ache, be diseases, an hypocrite cannot but
be the like in all States and societies that breed him. If he be a clergy hypocrite, then all
manner of vice is for the most part so proper to him as he will grudge any man the practice
of it but himself; like that grave burgess, who being desired to lend his clothes to represent
a part in a comedy, answered: No, by his leave, he would have nobody play the fool in his clothes
but himself. Hence are his so austere reprehensions of drinking healths, lascivious talk, usury,
and unconscionable dealing; whenas himself, hating the profane mixture of malt and water, will,
by his good will, let nothing come within him but the purity of the grape, when he can get
it of another's cost. But this must not be done neither without a preface of seeming soothness,
turning up the eyes, moving the head, laying hand on the breast, and protesting that he would
not do it but to strengthen his body, being even consumed with dissembled zeal, and tedious
and thankless babbling to God and his auditors. And for the other vices, do but venture the
making yourself private with him or trusting of him, and if you come off without a savour of
the air which his soul is infected with you have great fortune. The fardel of all this ware
that is in him you shall commonly see carried upon the back of these two beasts that live within
him, Ignorance and Imperiousness, and they may well serve to carry other vices, for of themselves
they are insupportable. His Ignorance acquits him of all science, human or divine, and of all
language but his mother's; holding nothing pure, holy, or sincere but the senseless recollections
of his own crazed brain, the zealous fumes of his inflamed spirit, and the endless labours
of his eternal tongue, the motions whereof, when matter and words fail (as they often do),
must be patched up to accomplish his four hours in a day at the least with long and fervent
hums. Anything else, either for language or matter, he cannot abide, but thus censureth: Latin,
the language of the beast; Greek, the tongue wherein the heathen poets wrote their fictions;
Hebrew, the speech of the Jews that crucified Christ; controversies do not edify; logic and
philosophy are the subtilties of Satan to deceive the simple; human stories profane, and not
savouring of the Spirit; in a word, all decent and sensible form of speech and persuasion (though
in his own tongue) vain ostentation. And all this is the burden of his Ignorance, saving that
sometimes idleness will put in also to bear a part of the baggage. His other beast, Imperiousness,
is yet more proudly laden; it carrieth a burden that no cords of authority, spiritual nor temporal,
should bind if it might have the full swing. No Pilate, no prince should command him, nay,
he will command them, and at his pleasure censure them if they will not suffer their ears to
be fettered with the long chains of his tedious collations, their purses to be emptied with
the inundations of his unsatiable humour, and their judgments to be blinded with the muffler
of his zealous ignorance; for this doth he familiarly insult over his maintainer that breeds
him, his patron that feeds him, and in time over all them that will suffer him to set a foot
within their doors or put a finger in their purses. All this and much more is in him; that
abhorring degrees and universities as reliques of superstition, hath leapt from a shop-board
or a cloak-bag to a desk or pulpit; and that, like a sea-god in a pageant, hath the rotten
laths of his culpable life and palpable ignorance covered over with the painted-cloth of a
pure gown and a night-cap, and with a false trumpet of feigned zeal draweth after him some
poor nymphs and madmen that delight more to resort to dark caves and secret places than to
open and public assemblies. The lay-hypocrite is to the other a champion, disciple, and subject,
and will not acknowledge the tithe of the subjection to any mitre, no, not to any sceptre,
that he will do to the hook and crook of his zeal-blind shepherd. No Jesuits demand more blind
and absolute obedience from their vassals, no magistrates of the canting society more slavish
subjection from the members of that travelling State, than the clerk hypocrites expect from
these lay pulpits. Nay, they must not only be obeyed, fed, and defended, but admired too; and
that their lay-followers do sincerely, as a shirtless fellow with a cudgel under his arm doth
a face-wringing ballad-singer, a water-bearer on the floor of a playhouse, a wide-mouthed poet
that speaks nothing but blathers and bombast. Otherwise, for life and profession, nature and
art, inward and outward, they agree in all; like canters and gypsies, they are all zeal no
knowledge, all purity no humanity, all simplicity no honesty, and if you never trust them they
will never deceive you.

A CHAMBERMAID.

She is her mistress's she secretary, and keeps the box of her teeth, her hair, and her painting
very private. Her industry is upstairs and downstairs, like a drawer; and by her dry hand you
may know she is a sore starcher. If she lie at her master's bed's feet, she is quit of the
green sickness for ever, for she hath terrible dreams when she's awake, as if she were troubled
with the nightmare. She hath a good liking to dwell in the country, but she holds London the
goodliest forest in England to shelter a great belly. She reads Greene's works over and over,
but is so carried away with the "Mirror of Knighthood," she is many times resolved to run out
of her self and become a lady-errant. The pedant of the house, though he promise her marriage,
cannot grow further inward with her; she hath paid for her credulity often, and now grows weary.
She likes the form of our marriage very well, in that a woman is not tied to answer to any
articles concerning questions of virginity. Her mind, her body, and clothes are parcels loosely
tacked together, and for want of good utterance she perpetually laughs out her meaning. Her
mistress and she help to make away time to the idlest purpose that can be, either for love
or money. In brief, these chambermaids are like lotteries: you may draw twenty ere one worth
anything.

A PRECISIAN.

To speak no otherwise of this varnished rottenness than in truth and verity he is, I must define
him to be a demure creature, full of oral sanctity and mental impiety; a fair object to the
eye, but stark naught for the understanding, or else a violent thing much given to contradiction.
He will be sure to be in opposition with the Papist, though it be sometimes accompanied with
an absurdity, like the islanders near adjoining unto China, who salute by putting off their
shoes, because the men of China do it by their hats. If at any time he fast, it is upon Sunday,
and he is sure to feast upon Friday. He can better afford you ten lies than one oath, and dare
commit any sin gilded with a pretence of sanctity. He will not stick to commit fornication
or adultery so it be done in the fear of God and for the propagation of the godly, and can
find in his heart to lie with any whore save the whore of Babylon. To steal he holds it lawful,
so it be from the wicked and Egyptians. He had rather see Antichrist than a picture in the
church window, and chooseth sooner to be half hanged than see a leg at the name of Jesus or
one stand at the Creed. He conceives his prayer in the kitchen rather than in the church, and
is of so good discourse that he dares challenge the Almighty to talk with him extempore. He
thinks every organist is in the state of damnation, and had rather hear one of Robert Wisdom's
psalms than the best hymn a cherubim can sing. He will not break wind without an apology or
asking forgiveness, nor kiss a gentlewoman for fear of lusting after her. He hath nicknamed
all the prophets and apostles with his sons, and begets nothing but virtues for daughters.
Finally, he is so sure of his salvation, that he will not change places in heaven with the
Virgin Mary, without boot.

AN INNS OF COURT MAN.

He is distinguished from a scholar by a pair of silk stockings and a beaver hat, which makes
him condemn a scholar as much as a scholar doth a schoolmaster. By that he hath heard one mooting
and seen two plays, he thinks as basely of the university as a young sophister doth of the
grammar-school. He talks of the university with that state as if he were her chancellor; finds
fault with alterations and the fall of discipline with an "It was not so when I was a student,"
although that was within this half year. He will talk ends of Latin, though it be false, with
as great confidence as ever Cicero could pronounce an oration, though his best authors for
it be taverns and ordinaries. He is as far behind a courtier in his fashion as a scholar is
behind him, and the best grace in his behaviour is to forget his acquaintance.

He laughs at every man whose band fits not well, or that hath not a fair shoe-tie, and he is
ashamed to be seen in any man's company that wears not his clothes well. His very essence he
placeth in his outside, and his chiefest prayer is, that his revenues may hold out for taffety
cloaks in the summer and velvet in the winter. To his acquaintance he offers two quarts of
wine for one he gives. You shall never see him melancholy but when he wants a new suit or fears
a sergeant, at which times he only betakes himself to Ploydon. By that he hath read Littleton,
he can call Solon, Lycurgus, and Justinian fools, and dares compare his law to a lord chief-justice's.

A MERE FELLOW OF AN HOUSE.

He is one whose hopes commonly exceed his fortunes and whose mind soars above his purse. If
he hath read Tacitus Guicciardine or Gallo-Belgicus, he condemns the late Lord-Treasurer for
all the state policy he had, and laughs to think what a fool he could make of Solomon if he
were now alive. He never wears new clothes but against a commencement or a good time, and is
commonly a degree behind the fashion. He hath sworn to see London once a year, though all his
business be to see a play, walk a turn in Paul's, and observe the fashion. He thinks it a discredit
to be out of debt, which he never likely clears without resignation money. He will not leave
his part he hath in the privilege over young gentlemen in going bare to him, for the empire
of Germany. He prays as heartily for a sealing as a cormorant doth for a dear year, yet commonly
he spends that revenue before he receives it.

At meals he sits in as great state over his penny commons as ever Vitellius did at his greatest
banquet, and takes great delight in comparing his fare to my Lord Mayor's.

If he be a leader of a faction, he thinks himself greater than ever Caesar was or the Turk
at this day is. And he had rather lose an inheritance than an office when he stands for it.

If he be to travel, he is longer furnishing himself for a five miles' journey than a ship is
rigging for a seven years' voyage. He is never more troubled than when he has to maintain talk
with a gentlewoman, wherein he commits more absurdities than a clown in eating of an egg.

He thinks himself as fine when he is in a clean band and a new pair of shoes, as any courtier
doth when he is first in a new fashion.

Lastly, he is one that respects no man in the university, and is respected by no man out of it.

A WORTHY COMMANDER IN THE WARS

Is one that accounts learning the nourishment of military virtue, and lays that as his first
foundation. He never bloodies his sword but in heat of battle, and had rather save one of his
own soldiers than kill ten of his enemies. He accounts it an idle, vainglorious, and suspected
bounty to be full of good words; his rewarding, therefore, of the deserver arrives so timely,
that his liberality can never be said to be gouty-handed. He holds it next his creed that no
coward can be an honest man, and dare die in it. He doth not think, his body yields a more
spreading shadow after a victory than before; and when he looks upon his enemy's dead body
'tis a kind of noble heaviness--no insultation. He is so honourably merciful to women in surprisal,
that only that makes him an excellent courtier. He knows the hazard of battles, not the pomp
of ceremonies, are soldiers' best theatres, and strives to gain reputation, not by the multitude
but by the greatness of his actions. He is the first in giving the charge and the last in retiring
his foot. Equal toil he endures with the common soldier; from his examples they all take fire,
as one torch lights many. He understands in war there is no mean to err twice, the first and
last fault being sufficient to ruin an army: faults, therefore, he pardons none; they that
are precedents of disorder or mutiny repair it by being examples of his justice. Besiege him
never so strictly, so long as the air is not cut from him, his heart faints not. He hath learned
as well to make use of a victory as to get it, and pursuing his enemies like a whirlwind, carries
all before him; being assured if ever a man will benefit himself upon his foe, then is the
time when they have lost force, wisdom, courage, and reputation. The goodness of his cause
is the special motive to his valour; never is he known to slight the weakest enemy that comes
armed against him in the band of justice. Hasty and overmuch heat he accounts the step-dame
to all great actions that will not suffer them to drive; if he cannot overcome his enemy by
force, he does it by time. If ever he shake hands with war, he can die more calmly than most
courtiers, for his continual dangers have been, as it were, so many meditations of death. He
thinks not out of his own calling when he accounts life a continual warfare, and his prayers
then best become him when armed cap-à-fie. He utters them like the great Hebrew general, on
horseback. He casts a smiling contempt upon calumny; it meets him as if glass should encounter
adamant. He thinks war is never to be given o'er, but on one of these three conditions: an
assured peace, absolute victory, or an honest death. Lastly, when peace folds him up, his silver
head should lean near the golden sceptre and die in his prince's bosom.

A VAINGLORIOUS COWARD IN COMMAND

Is one that hath bought his place, or come to it by some nobleman's letter. He loves alive
dead pays, yet wishes they may rather happen in his company by the scurvy than by a battle.
View him at a muster, and he goes with such a nose as if his body were the wheelbarrow that
carried his judgment rumbling to drill his soldiers. No man can worse design between pride
and noble courtesy. He that salutes him not, so far as a pistol carries level, gives him the
disgust or affront, choose you whether. He trains by the book, and reckons so many postures
of the pike and musket as if he were counting at noddy. When he comes at first upon a camisado,
he looks, like the four winds in painting, as if he would blow away the enemy; but at the very
first onset suffers fear and trembling to dress themselves in his face apparently. He scorns
any man should take place before him, yet at the entering of a breach he hath been so humble-minded
as to let his lieutenant lead his troops for him. He is so sure armed for taking hurt that
he seldom does any; and while he is putting on his arms, he is thinking what sum he can make
to satisfy his ransom. He will rail openly against all the great commanders of the adverse
party, yet in his own conscience allows them for better men. Such is the nature of his fear
that, contrary to all other filthy qualities, it makes him think better of another man than
himself. The first part of him that is set a running is his eye-sight; when that is once struck
with terror all the costive physic in the world cannot stay him. If ever he do anything beyond
his own heart 'tis for a knighthood, and he is the first kneels for it without bidding.

A PIRATE,

Truly defined, is a bold traitor, for he fortifies a castle against the king. Give him sea-room
in never so small a vessel, and like a witch in a sieve, you would think he were going to make
merry with the devil. Of all callings his is the most desperate, for he will not leave off
his thieving, though he be in a narrow prison, and look every day, by tempest or fight, for
execution. He is one plague the devil hath added to make the sea more terrible than a storm,
and his heart is so hardened in that rugged element that he cannot repent, though he view his
grave before him continually open. He hath so little of his own that the house he sleeps in
is stolen: all the necessities of life he filches but one; he cannot steal a sound sleep for
his troubled conscience. He is very gentle to those under him, yet his rule is the horriblest
tyranny in the world, for he gives licence to all rape, murder, and cruelty in his own example.
What he gets is small use to him, only lives by it somewhat the longer to do a little more
service to his belly, for he throws away his treasure upon the shore in riot, as if he cast
it into the sea. He is a cruel hawk that flies at all but his own kind; and as a whale never
comes ashore but when she is wounded, so he very seldom but for his necessities. He is the
merchant's book that serves only to reckon up his losses, a perpetual plague to noble traffic,
the hurricane of the sea, and the earthquake of the exchange. Yet for all this give him but
his pardon and forgive him restitution, he may live to know the inside of a church, and die
on this side Wapping.

AN ORDINARY FENCER

Is a fellow that, beside shaving of cudgels, hath a good insight into the world, for he hath
long been beaten to it. Flesh and blood he is like other men, but surely nature meant him stockfish.
His and a dancing-school are inseparable adjuncts, and are bound, though both stink of sweat
most abominable, neither shall complain of annoyance. Three large bavins set up his trade,
with a bench, which, in the vacation of the afternoon, he used for his day-bed. When he comes
on the stage at his prize he makes a leg seven several ways, and scrambles for money, as if
he had been born at the Bath in Somersetshire. At his challenge he shows his metal, for, contrary
to all rules of physic, he dares bleed, though it be in the dog-days. He teaches devilish play
in his school, but when he fights himself he doth it in the fear of a good Christian; he compounds
quarrels among his scholars, and when he hath brought the business to a good upshot he makes
the reckoning. His wounds are seldom above skin deep; for an inward bruise lamb-stones and
sweetbreads are his only spermaceti, which he eats at night next his heart fasting. Strange
schoolmasters they are that every day set a man as far backward as he went forward, and throwing
him into a strange posture, teach him to thresh satisfaction out of injury. One sign of a good
nature is that he is still open-breasted to his friends; for his foil and his doublet wear
not out above two buttons, and resolute he is, for he so much scorns to take blows that he
never wears cuffs; and he lives better contented with a little than other men, for if he have
two eyes in his head he thinks nature hath overdone him. The Lord Mayor's triumph makes him
a man, for that's his best time to flourish. Lastly, these fencers are such things that care
not if all the world were ignorant of more letters than only to read their patent.

A PUNY CLERK.

He is taken from grammar-school half coddled, and can hardly shake off his dreams of breeching
in a twelvemonth. He is a farmer's son, and his father's utmost ambition is to make him an
attorney. He doth itch towards a poet, and greases his breeches extremely with feeding without
a napkin. He studies false dice to cheat costermongers. He eats gingerbread at a playhouse,
and is so saucy that he ventures fairly for a broken pate at the banqueting-house, and hath
it. He would never come to have any wit but for a long vacation, for that makes him bethink
him how he shall shift another day. He prays hotly against fasting, and so he may sup well
on Friday nights, he cares not though his master be a puritan. He practices to make the words
in his declaration spread as a sewer doth the dishes of a niggard's table; a clerk of a swooping
dash is as commendable as a Flanders horse of a large tail. Though you be never so much delayed
you must not call his master knave, that makes him go beyond himself, and write a challenge
in court hand, for it may be his own another day These are some certain of his liberal faculties;
but in the term time his clog is a buckram bag. Lastly, which is great pity, he never comes
to his full growth, with bearing on his shoulder the sinful burden of his master at several
courts in Westminster.

A FOOTMAN.

Let him be never so well made, yet his legs are not matches, for he is still setting the best
foot forward. He will never be a staid man, for he has had a running head of his own ever since
his childhood. His mother, which out of question was a light-heeled wench, knew it, yet let
him run his race thinking age would reclaim him from his wild courses. He is very long-winded,
and without doubt but that he hates naturally to serve on horseback, he had proved an excellent
trumpet. He has one happiness above all the rest of the serving-men, for when he most overreaches
his master he is best thought of. He lives more by his own heat than the warmth of clothes,
and the waiting-woman hath the greatest fancy to him when he is in his close trouses. Guards
he wears none, which makes him live more upright than any cross-gartered gentleman-usher. 'Tis
impossible to draw his picture to the life, because a man must take it as he's running, only
this, horses are usually let blood on St. Steven's Day. On St. Patrick's he takes rest, and
is drenched for all the year after.

A NOBLE AND RETIRED HOUSEKEEPER

Is one whose bounty is limited by reason, not ostentation; and to make it last he deals it
discreetly, as we sow the furrow, not by the sack, but by the handful. His word and his meaning
never shake hands and part, but always go together. He can survey good and love it, and loves
to do it himself for its own sake, not for thanks. He knows there is no such misery as to outlive
good name, nor no such folly as to put it in practice. His mind is so secure that thunder rocks
him asleep, which breaks other men's slumbers; nobility lightens in his eyes, and in his face
and gesture is painted the god of hospitality. His great houses bear in their front more durance
than state, unless this add the greater state to them, that they promise to outlast much of
our new fantastical buildings. His heart never grows old, no more than his memory, whether
at his book or on horseback. He passeth his time in such noble exercise, a man cannot say any
time is lost by him; nor hath he only years to approve he hath lived till he be old, but virtues.
His thoughts have a high aim, though their dwelling be in the vale of an humble heart, whence,
as by an engine (that raises water to fall that it may rise the higher), he is heightened in
his humility. The adamant serves not for all seas, but this doth; for he hath, as it were,
put a gird about the whole world and found all her quicksands. He hath this hand over fortune,
that her injuries, how violent or sudden soever, they do not daunt him; for whether his time
call him to live or die, he can do both nobly; if to fall, his descent is breast to breast
with virtue; and even then, like the sun near his set, he shows unto the world his clearest
countenance.

AN INTRUDER INTO FAVOUR

Is one that builds his reputation on others' infamy, for slander is most commonly his morning
prayer. His passions are guided by pride and followed by injustice. An inflexible anger against
some poor tutor he falsely calls a courageous constancy, and thinks the best part of gravity
to consist in a ruffled forehead. He is the most slavishly submissive, though envious to those
that are in better place than himself; and knows the art of words so well that (for shrouding
dishonesty under a fair pretext) he seems to preserve mud in crystal. Like a man of a kind
nature, he is the first good to himself, in the next file to his French tailor, that gives
him all his perfection; for indeed, like an estridge, or bird of paradise, his feathers are
more worth than his body. If ever he do good deed (which is very seldom) his own mouth is the
chronicle of it, lest it should die forgotten. His whole body goes all upon screws, and his
face is the vice that moves them. If his patron be given to music, he opens his chops and sings,
or with a wry neck falls to tuning his instrument; if that fail, he takes the height of his
lord with a hawking pole. He follows the man's fortune, not the man, seeking thereby to increase
his own. He pretends he is most undeservedly envied, and cries out, remembering the game, chess,
that a pawn before a king is most played on. Debts he owns none but shrewd turns, and those
he pays ere he be sued. He is a flattering glass to conceal age and wrinkles. He is mountain's
monkey that, climbing a tree and skipping from bough to bough, gives you back his face; but
come once to the top, he holds his nose up into the wind and shows you his tail. Yet all this
gay glitter shows on him as if the sun shone in a puddle, for he is a small wine that will
not last; and when he is falling, he goes of himself faster than misery can drive him. In milking
a cow and straining the teats through her fingers, it seems that so sweet a milk-press makes
the milk the whiter or sweeter; for never came almond glove or aromatic ointment off her palm
to taint it. The golden ears of corn fall and kiss her feet when she reaps them, as if they
wished to be bound and led prisoners by the same hand that felled them.

AN ARRANT HORSE-COURSER

Hath the trick to blow up horse-flesh, as the butcher doth veal, which shall wash out again
in twice riding betwixt Waltham and London. The trade of spur-making had decayed long since,
but for this ungodly tireman. He is cursed all over the four ancient highways of England; none
but the blind men that sell switches in the road are beholding to him. His stable is filled
with so many diseases, one would think most part about Smithfield was an hospital for horses,
or a slaughter-house of the common hunt. Let him furnish you with a hackney, it is as much
as if the King's warrant overtook you within ten miles to stay your journey. And though a man
cannot say he cozens you directly, yet any hostler within ten miles, should he be brought upon
his book-oath, will affirm he hath laid a bait for you. Resolve when you first stretch yourself
in the stirrups, you are put as it were upon some usurer that will never bear with you past
his day. He were good to make one that had the colic alight often, and, if example will cause
him, make urine; let him only for that say, Grammercy horse. For his sale of horses, he hath
false covers for all manner of diseases, only comes short of one thing (which he despairs not
utterly to bring to perfection), to make a horse go on a wooden leg and two crutches. For powdering
his ears with quicksilver, and giving him suppositories of live eels, he is expert. All the
while you are cheapening, he fears you will not bite; but he laughs in his sleeve when he hath
cozened you in earnest. Frenchmen are his best chapmen; he keeps amblers for them on purpose,
and knows he can deceive them very easily. He is so constant to his trade that, while he is
awake, he tries any man he talks with, and when he is asleep he dreams very fearfully of the
paving of Smithfield, for he knows it would founder his occupation.

A ROARING BOY.

His life is a mere counterfeit patent, which, nevertheless, makes many a country justice tremble.
Don Quixote's water-mills are still Scotch bagpipes to him. He sends challenges by word of
mouth, for he protests (as he is a gentleman and a brother of the sword) he can neither write
nor read. He hath run through divers parcels of land, and great houses, beside both the counters.
If any private quarrel happen among our great courtiers, he proclaims the business--that's
the word, the business--as if the united force of the Romish Catholics were making up for Germany.
He cheats young gulls that are newly come to town; and when the keeper of the ordinary blames
him for it he answers him in his own profession, that a woodcock must be plucked ere he be
dressed. He is a supervisor to brothels, and in them is a more unlawful reformer of vice than
prentices on Shrove-Tuesday. He loves his friend as a counsellor at law loves the velvet breeches
he was first made barrister in, he will be sure to wear him threadbare ere he forsake him.
He sleeps with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth; and his first prayer in the morning is he may remember
whom he fell out with over night. Soldier he is none, for he cannot distinguish between onion-seed
and gunpowder; if he have worn it in his hollow tooth for the toothache and so come to the
knowledge of it, that is all. The tenure by which he holds his means is an estate at will,
and that's borrowing. Landlords have but four quarter-days, but he three hundred and odd. He
keeps very good company, yet is a man of no reckoning; and when he goes not drunk to bed he
is very sick next morning. He commonly dies like Anacreon, with a grape in his throat; or Hercules,
with fire in his marrow. And I have heard of some that have escaped hanging begged for anatomies,
only to deter man from taking tobacco.

A DRUNKEN DUTCHMAN RESIDENT IN ENGLAND

Is but a quarter-master with his wife. He stinks of butter as if he were anointed all over
for the itch. Let him come over never so lean, and plant him but one month near the brew-houses
in St Catherine's, and he will be puffed up to your hand like a bloat herring. Of all places
of pleasure he loves a common garden, and with the swine of the parish had need be ringed for
rooting. Next to these he affects lotteries naturally, and bequeaths the best prize in his
will aforehand; when his hopes fall he's blank. They swarm in great tenements like flies; six
households will live in a garret. He was wont, only to make us fools, to buy the fox skin for
threepence, and sell the tail for a shilling. Now his new trade of brewing strong waters makes
a number of madmen. He loves a Welshman extremely for his diet and orthography; that is, for
plurality of consonants, and cheese. Like a horse, he is only guided by the mouth; when he's
drunk you may thrust your hand into him like an eel's-skin, and strip him, his inside outwards.
He hoards up fair gold, and pretends 'tis to seethe in his wife's broth for consumption; and
loves the memory of King Henry the Eighth, most especially for his old sovereigns. He says
we are unwise to lament the decay of timber in England; for all manner of buildings or fortification
whatsoever, he desires no other thing in the world than barrels and hop-poles. To conclude,
the only two plagues he trembles at is small beer and the Spanish Inquisition.

A PHANTASTIQUE: AN IMPROVIDENT YOUNG GALLANT,

There is a confederacy between him and his clothes, to be made a puppy: view him well and you
will say his gentry sits as ill upon him as if he had bought it with his penny. He hath more
places to send money to than the devil hath to send his spirits; and to furnish each mistress
would make him run besides his wits, if he had any to lose. He accounts bashfulness the wickedest
thing in the world, and therefore studies impudence. If all men were of his mind all honesty
would be out of fashion. He withers his clothes on a stage, as a saleman is forced to do his
suits in Birchin Lane; and when the play is done, if you mark his rising, 'tis with a kind
of walking epilogue between the two candles, to know if his suit may pass for current. He studies
by the discretion of his barber, to frizzle like a baboon; three such would keep three the
nimblest barbers in the town from ever having leisure to wear net-garters, for when they have
to do with him, they have many irons in the fire. He is travelled, but to little purpose; only
went over for a squirt and came back again, yet never the more mended in his conditions, because
he carried himself along with him. A scholar he pretends himself, and says he hath sweat for
it, but the truth is he knows Cornelius far better than Tacitus. His ordinary sports are cock-fights,
but the most frequent, horse-races, from whence he comes home dry-foundered. Thus when his
purse hath cast her calf he goes down into the country, where he is brought to milk and white
cheese like the Switzers.

A BUTTON-MAKER OF AMSTERDAM

Is one that is fled over for his conscience, and left his wife and children upon the parish.
For his knowledge he is merely a Horn-book without a Christ-cross before it; and his zeal consists
much in hanging his Bible in a Dutch button. He cozens men in the purity of his clothes; and
'twas his only joy when he was on this side, to be in prison. He cries out, 'tis impossible
for any man to be damned that lives in his religion, and his equivocation is true--as long
as a man lives in it, he cannot; but if he die in it, there's the question. Of all feasts in
the year he accounts St. George's feast the profanest, because of St. George's cross, yet sometimes
he doth sacrifice to his own belly, provided that he put off the wake of his own nativity or
wedding till Good Friday. If there be a great feast in the town, though most of the wicked
(as he calls them) be there, he will be sure to be a guest, and to out-eat six of the fattest
burghers. He thinks, though he may not pray with a Jew, he may eat with a Jew. He winks when
he prays, and thinks he knows the way so now to heaven, that he can find it blindfold. Latin
he accounts the language of the beast with seven heads; and when he speaks of his own country,
cries, he is fled out of Babel. Lastly, his devotion is obstinacy; the only solace of his heart,
contradiction; and his main end, hypocrisy.

A DISTASTER OF THE TIME

Is a winter grasshopper all the year long that looks back upon harvest with a lean pair of
cheeks, never sets forward to meet it; his malice sucks up the greatest part of his own venom,
and therewith impoisoneth himself: and this sickness rises rather of self-opinion or over-great
expedition; so in the conceit of his own over-worthiness, like a coistrel he strives to fill
himself with wind, and flies against it. Any man's advancement is the most capital offence
that can be to his malice, yet this envy, like Phalaris' bull, makes that a torment first for
himself he prepared for others. He is a day-bed for the devil to slumber on. His blood is of
a yellowish colour, like those that have been bitten by vipers, and his gall flows as thick
in him as oil in a poisoned stomach. He infects all society, as thunder sours wine: war or
peace, dearth or plenty, makes him equally discontented. And where he finds no cause to tax
the State, he descends to rail against the rate of salt-butter. His wishes are whirlwinds,
which breathed forth return into himself, and make him a most giddy and tottering vessel. When
he is awake, and goes abroad, he doth but walk in his sleep, for his visitation is directed
to none, his business is nothing. He is often dumb-mad, and goes fettered in his own entrails.
Religion is commonly his pretence of discontent, though he can be of all religions, therefore
truly of none. Thus by naturalising himself some would think him a very dangerous fellow to
the State; but he is not greatly to be feared, for this dejection of his is only like a rogue
that goes on his knees and elbows in the mire to further his cogging.

A MERE FELLOW OF AN HOUSE

Examines all men's carriage but his own, and is so kind-natured to himself, he finds fault
with all men's but his own. He wears his apparel much after the fashion; his means will not
suffer him to come too nigh. They afford him mock-velvet or satinisco, but not without the
college's next lease's acquaintance. His inside is of the self-same fashion, not rich; but
as it reflects from the glass of self-liking, there Croesus is Irus to him. He is a pedant
in show, though his title be tutor, and his pupils in a broader phrase are schoolboys. On these
he spends the false gallop of his tongue, and with senseless discourse tows them alone, not
out of ignorance. He shows them the rind, conceals the sap; by this means he keeps them the
longer, himself the better. He hath learnt to cough and spit and blow his nose at every period,
to recover his memory, and studies chiefly to set his eyes and beard to a new form of learning.
His religion lies in wait for the inclination of his patron, neither ebbs nor flows, but just
standing water, between Protestant and Puritan. His dreams are of plurality of benefices and
non-residency, and when he rises acts a long grace to his looking-glass. Against he comes to
be some great man's chaplain he hath a habit of boldness, though a very coward. He speaks swords,
fights ergos. His peace on foot is a measure, on horseback a gallop, for his legs are his own,
though horse and spurs are borrowed. He hath less use than possession of books. He is not so
proud but he will call the meanest author by his name; nor so unskilled in the heraldry of
a study but he knows each man's place. So ends that fellowship and begins another.

A MERE PETTIFOGGER

Is one of Samson's foxes; he sets men together by the ears, more shamefully than pillories,
and in a long vacation his sport is to go a fishing with the penal statutes. He cannot err
before judgment, and then you see it, only writs of error are the tariers that keep his client
undoing somewhat the longer. He is a vestryman in his parish, and easily sets his neighbour
at variance with the vicar, when his wicked counsel on both sides is like weapons put into
men's hands by a fencer, whereby they get blows, he money. His honesty and learning bring him
to Under-Shrieveship, which, having thrice run through, he does not fear the Lieutenant of
the Shire; nay more, he fears not God. Cowardice holds him a good commonwealth's-man; his pen
is the plough and parchment the soil whence he reaps both coin and curses. He is an earthquake
that willingly will let no ground lie in quiet. Broken titles makes him whole; to have half
in the country break their bonds were the only liberty of conscience. He would wish, though
he be a Brownist, no neighbour of his should pay his tithes duly, if such suits held continual
plea at Westminster. He cannot away with the reverend service in our Church, because it ends
with the peace of God. He loves blows extremely, and hath his chirurgeon's bill of rates, from
head to foot, incense the fury; he would not give away his yearly beatings for a good piece
of money. He makes his will in form of a law-case, full of quiddits, that his friends after
his death (if for nothing else, yet) for the vexation of the law, may have cause to remember
him. And if he thought the ghost of men did walk again (as they report in the time of Popery),
sure he would hide some single money in Westminster Hall that his spirit might haunt there.
Only with this I will pitch him over the bar and leave him: that his fingers itch after a bribe
ever since his first practising of court-hand.

AN INGROSSER OF CORN.

There is no vermin in the land like him: he slanders both heaven and earth with pretended dearths
when there is no cause of scarcity. He hoarding in a dear year, is like Erysicthon's bowels
in Ovid: Quodque urbibus esset, quodque satis poterat populo, non sufficit uni. He prays daily
for more inclosures, and knows no reason in his religion why we should call our forefathers'
days the time of ignorance, but only because they sold wheat for twelve pence a bushel. He
wishes that Dantzig were at the Moluccas, and had rather be certain of some foreign invasion
than of the setting up of the steelyard. When his barns and garners are full, if it be a time
of dearth, he will buy half a bushel in the market to serve his household, and winnows his
corn in the night, lest, as the chaff thrown upon the water showed plenty in Egypt, so his
carried by the wind should proclaim his abundance. No painting pleases him so well as Pharaoh's
dream of the seven lean kine that ate up the fat ones, that he has in his parlour, which he
will describe to you like a motion, and his comment ends with a smothered prayer for a like
scarcity. He cannot away with tobacco, for he is persuaded (and not much amiss), that 'tis
a sparer of bread-corn, which he could find in his heart to transport without license; but,
weighing the penalty, he grows mealy-mouthed, and dares not. Sweet smells he cannot abide;
wishes that the pure air were generally corrupted; nay, that the spring had lost her fragrancy
for ever, or we our superfluous sense of smelling (as he terms it), that his corn might not
be found musty. The poor he accounts the Justices' intelligencers, and cannot abide them. He
complains of our negligence of discovering new parts of the world, only to rid them from our
climate. His son, by a certain kind of instinct, he binds prentice to a tailor, who, all the
term of his indenture, hath a dear year in his belly, and ravens bread exceedingly. When he
comes to be a freeman, if it be a dearth, he marries him to a baker's daughter.

A DEVILISH USURER

Is sowed as cummin or hempseed, with curses, and he thinks he thrives the better. He is far
better read in the penal statutes than in the Bible, and his evil angel persuades him he shall
sooner be saved by them. He can be no man's friend, for all men he hath most interest in he
undoes. And a double dealer he is certainly, for by his good will he ever takes the forfeit.
He puts his money to the unnatural act of generation, and his scrivener is the supervisor bawd
to it. Good deeds he loves none, but sealed and delivered; nor doth he wish anything to thrive
in the country but beehives, for they make him wax rich. He hates all but law-Latin, yet thinks
he might be drawn to love a scholar, could he reduce the year to a shorter compass, that his
use money might come in the faster. He seems to be the son of a jailor, for all his estate
is in most heavy and cruel bonds. He doth not give, but sell, days of payment, and those at
the rate of a man's undoing. He doth only fear the Day of Judgment should fall sooner than
the payment of some great sum of money due to him. He removes his lodging when a subsidy comes;
and if he be found out, and pay it, he grumbles treason: but 'tis in such a deformed silence
as witches raise their spirits in. Gravity he pretends in all things but in his private vice,
for he will not in a hundred pound take one light sixpence. And it seems he was at Tilbury
Camp, for you must not tell him of a Spaniard. He is a man of no conscience, for (like the
Jakes-farmer that swooned with going into Bucklersbury) he falls into a cold sweat if he but
look into the Chancery; thinks, in his religion, we are in the right for everything, if that
were abolished. He hides his money as if he thought to find it again at the last day, and then
begin's old trade with it. His clothes plead prescription, and whether they or his body are
more rotten is a question. Yet, should he live to be hanged in them, this good they would do
him: the very hangman would pity his case. The table he keeps is able to starve twenty tall
men. His servants have not their living, but their dying from him, and that's of hunger. A
spare diet he commends in all men but himself. He comes to cathedrals only for love of the
singing-boys, because they look hungry. He likes our religion best because 'tis best cheap,
yet would fain allow of purgatory, cause 'twas of his trade, and brought in so much money.
His heart goes with the same snaphance his purse doth: 'tis seldom open to any man. Friendship
he accounts but a word without any signification; nay, he loves all the world so little, that
an it were possible he would make himself his own executor. For certain, he is made administrator
to his own good name while he is in perfect memory, for that dies long before him; but he is
so far from being at the charge of a funeral for it, that he lets it stink above-ground. In
conclusion, for neighbourhood you were better dwell by a contentious lawyer. And for his death,
'tis either surfeit, the pox, or despair; for seldom such as he die of God's making, as honest
men should do.

A WATERMAN

Is one that hath learnt to speak well of himself, for always he names himself "the first man."
If he had betaken himself to some richer trade, he could not have choosed but done well; for
in this, though a mean one, he is still plying it, and putting himself forward. He is evermore
telling strange news, most commonly lies. If he be a sculler, ask him if he be married: he'll
equivocate, and swear he's a single man. Little trust is to be given to him, for he thinks
that day he does best when he fetches most men over. His daily labour teaches him the art of
dissembling, for, like a fellow that rides to the pillory, he goes not that way he looks. He
keeps such a bawling at Westminster, that, if the lawyers were not acquainted with it, an order
would be taken with him. When he is upon the water he is fair company; when he comes ashore
he mutinies, and, contrary to all other trades, is most surly to gentlemen when they tender
payment. The playhouses only keep him sober, and, as it doth many other gallants, make him
an afternoon's man. London Bridge is the most terrible eyesore to him that can be. And, to
conclude, nothing but a great press makes him fly from the river, nor anything but a great
frost can teach him any good manners.

A REVEREND JUDGE

Is one that desires to have his greatness only measured by his goodness. His care is to appear
such to the people as he would have them be, and to be himself such as he appears; for virtue
cannot seem one thing and be another. He knows that the hill of greatness yields a most delightful
prospect; but, withal, that it is most subject to lightning and thunder, and that the people,
as in ancient tragedies, sit and censure the actions of those in authority. He squares his
own, therefore, that they may far be above their pity. He wishes fewer laws, so they were better
observed; and for those are mulctuary, he understands their institution not to be like briers
or springs, to catch everything they lay hold of, but, like sea-marks on our dangerous Goodwin,
to avoid the shipwreck of innocent passengers. He hates to wrong any man: neither hope nor
despair of preferment can draw him to such an exigent. He thinks himself most honourably seated
when he gives mercy the upper hand. He rather strives to purchase good name than land; and
of all rich stuffs forbidden by the statute, loathes to have his followers wear their clothes
cut out of bribes and extortions. If his Prince call him to higher place, there he delivers
his mind plainly and freely, knowing for truth there is no place wherein dissembling ought
to have less credit than in a prince's council. Thus honour keeps peace with him to the grave,
and doth not (as with many) there forsake him, and go back with the heralds; but fairly sits
over him, and broods out of his memory many right excellent commonwealth's-men.

A VIRTUOUS WIDOW

Is the palm-tree, that thrives not after the supplanting of her husband. For her children's
sake she first marries; for she married that she might have children; and for their sakes she
marries no more. She is like the purest gold, only employed for princes' medals: she never
receives but one man's impression. The largest jointure moves her not, titles of honour cannot
sway her. To change her name were (she thinks) to commit a sin should make her ashamed of her
husband's calling. She thinks she hath travelled all the world in one man; the rest of her
time, therefore, she directs to heaven. Her main superstition is, she thinks her husband's
ghost would walk, should she not perform his will. She would do it were there no Prerogative
Court. She gives much to pious uses, without any hope to merit by them; and as one diamond
fashions another, so is she wrought into works of charity, with the dust or ashes of her husband.
She lives to see herself full of time; being so necessary for earth, God calls her not to heaven
till she be very aged, and even then, though her natural strength fail her, she stands like
an ancient pyramid, which, the less it grows to man's eye, the nearer it reaches to heaven.
This latter chastity of hers is more grave and reverend than that ere she was married, for
in it is neither hope, nor longing, nor fear, nor jealousy. She ought to be a mirror for our
youngest dames to dress themselves by, when she is fullest of wrinkles. No calamity can now
come near her, for in suffering the loss of her husband she accounts all the rest trifles.
She hath laid his dead body in the worthiest monument that can be: she hath buried it in her
one heart. To conclude, she is a relic, that, without any superstition in the world, though
she will not be kissed, yet may be reverenced.

AN ORDINARY WIDOW

Is like the herald's hearse-cloth; she serves to many funerals, with a very little altering
the colour. The end of her husband begins in tears, and the end of her tears begins in a husband.
She uses to cunning women to know how many husbands she shall have, and never marries without
the consent of six midwives. Her chiefest pride is in the multitude of her suitors, and by
them she gains; for one serves to draw on another, and with one at last she shoots out another,
as boys do pellets in eldern guns. She commends to them a single life, as horse-coursers do
their jades, to put them away. Her fancy is to one of the biggest of the Guard, but knighthood
makes her draw in in a weaker bow. Her servants or kinsfolk are the trumpeters that summon
any to his combat. By them she gains much credit, but loseth it again in the old proverb, Fama
est mendax. If she live to be thrice married, she seldom fails to cozen her second husband's
creditors. A churchman she dare not venture upon, for she hath heard widows complain of dilapidations;
nor a soldier, though he have candle-rents in the city, for his estate may be subject to fire;
very seldom a lawyer, without he shows his exceeding great practice, and can make her case
the better; but a knight with the old rent may do much, for a great coming in is all in all
with a widow, ever provided that most part of her plate and jewels (before the wedding) be
concealed with her scrivener. Thus, like a too-ripe apple, she falls off herself; but he that
hath her is lord but of a filthy purchase, for the title is cracked. Lastly, while she is a
widow, observe her, she is no morning woman; the evening, a good fire and sack may make her
listen to a husband, and if ever she be made sure, 'tis upon a full stomach to bedward.

A QUACK-SALVER

Is a mountebank of a larger bill than a tailor: if he can but come by names enough of diseases
to stuff it with, 'tis all the skill he studies for. He took his first beginning from a cunning
woman, and stole this black art from her, while he made her sea-coal fire. All the diseases
ever sin brought upon man doth he pretend to be a curer of, when the truth is, his main cunning
is corn-cutting. A great plague makes him, what with railing against such as leave their cures
for fear of infection, and in friendly breaking cake-bread with the fishwives at funerals.
He utters a most abominable deal of carduus water, and the conduits cry out, All the learned
doctors may cast their caps at him. He parts stakes witn some apothecary in the suburbs, at
whose house he lies; and though he be never so familiar with his wife, the apothecary dares
not (for the richest horn in his shop) displease him. All the midwives in the town are his
intelligencers; but nurses and young merchants' wives that would fain conceive with child,
these are his idolaters. He is a more unjust bone-setter than a dice-maker. He hath put out
more eyes than the small-pox; more deaf than the cataracts of Nilus; lamed more than the gout;
shrunk more sinews than one that makes bowstrings, and killed more idly than tobacco. A magistrate
that had any-way so noble a spirit as but to love a good horse well, would not suffer him to
be a farrier. His discourse is vomit, and his ignorance the strongest purgation in the world.
To one that would be speedily cured, he hath more delays and doubles than a hare or a lawsuit.
He seeks to set us at variance with nature, and rather than he shall want diseases, he'll beget
them. His especial practice (as I said before) is upon women; labours to make their minds sick,
ere their bodies feel it, and then there's work for the dog-leech. He pretends the cure of
madmen; and sure he gets most by them, for no man in his perfect wit would meddle with him.
Lastly, he is such a juggler with urinals, so dangerously unskilful, that if ever the city
will have recourse to him for diseases that need purgation, let them employ him in scouring
Moorditch.

A CANTING ROGUE.

'Tis not unlikely but he was begot by some intelligencer under a hedge, for his mind is wholly
given to travel. He is not troubled with making of jointures; he can divorce himself without
the fee of a proctor, nor fears he the cruelty of overseers of his will. He leaves his children
all the world to cant in, and all the people to their fathers. His language is a constant tongue;
the northern speech differs from the south, Welsh from the Cornish; but canting is general,
nor ever could be altered by conquest of the Saxon, Dane, or Norman. He will not beg out of
his limit though he starve, nor break his oath, if he swear by his Solomon, though you hang
him; and he pays his custom as truly to his grand rogue as tribute is paid to the great Turk.
The March sun breeds agues in others, but he adores it like the Indians, for then begins his
progress after a hard winter. Ostlers cannot endure him, for he is of the infantry, and serves
best on foot. He offends not the statute against the excess of apparel, for he will go naked,
and counts it a voluntary penance. Forty of them lie together in a barn, yet are never sued
upon the Statute of Inmates. If he were learned no man could make a better description of England,
for he hath travelled it over and over. Lastly, he brags that his great houses are repaired
to his hands when churches go to ruin, and those are prisons.

A FRENCH COOK.

He learnt his trade in a town of garrison near famished, where he practised to make a little
go far. Some derive it from more antiquity, and say, Adam, when he picked salads, was of his
occupation. He doth not feed the belly, but the palate; and though his command lie in the kitchen,
which is but an inferior place, yet shall you find him a very saucy companion. Ever since the
wars in Naples, he hath so minced the ancient and bountiful allowance as if his nation should
keep a perpetual diet. The serving-men call him the last relic of popery, that makes men fast
against their conscience. He can be truly said to be no man's fellow but his master's, for
the rest of the servants are starved by him. He is the prime cause why noblemen build their
houses so great, for the smallness of their kitchen makes the house the bigger; and the lord
calls him his alchemist, that can extract gold out of herbs, mushrooms, or anything. That which
he dresses we may rather call a drinking than a meal, yet he is so full of variety that he
brags, and truly, that he gives you but a taste of what he can do. He dares not for his life
come among the butchers, for sure they would quarter and bake him after the English fashion,
he's such an enemy to beef and mutton. To conclude, he were only fit to make, a funeral feast,
where men should eat their victuals in mourning.

A SEXTON

Is an ill-wilier to human nature. Of all proverbs he cannot endure to hear that which says,
We ought to live by the quick, not by the dead. He could willingly all his lifetime be confined
to the churchyard; at least, within five foot on't, for at every church stile commonly there's
an alehouse, where, let him be found never so idle-pated, he is still a grave drunkard. He
breaks his fast heartiest while he is making a grave, and says the opening of the ground makes
him hungry. Though one would take him to be a sloven, yet he loves clean linen extremely, and
for that reason takes an order that fine Holland sheets be not made worms'-meat. Like a nation
called the Cusani, he weeps when any are born and laughs when they die; the reason, he gets
by burials not christenings. He will hold an argument in a tavern over sack till the dial and
himself be both at a stand; he never observes any time but sermon-time, and there he sleeps
by the hour-glass. The ropemaker pays him a pension, and he pays tribute to the physician;
for the physician makes work for the sexton, as the ropemaker for the hangman. Lastly, he wishes
the dog-days would last all year long; and a great plague is his year of jubilee.

A JESUIT

Is a larger spoon for a traitor to feed with the devil than any other order; unclasp him, and
he's a grey wolf with a golden star in the forehead; so superstitiously he follows the pope
that he forsakes Christ in not giving Caesar his due. His vows seem heavenly, but in meddling
with state business he seems to mix heaven and earth together. His best elements are confession
and penance: by the first he finds out men's inclinations, and by the latter heaps wealth to
his seminary. He sprang from Ignatius Loyola, a Spanish soldier; and though he were found out
long since the invention of the cannon, 'tis thought he hath not done less mischief. He is
a half-key to open princes' cabinets and pry in their councils; and where the pope's excommunication
thunders, he holds it no more sin the decrowning of kings than our Puritans do the suppression
of bishops. His order is full of irregularity and disobedience, ambitious above all measure;
for of late days, in Portugal and the Indies, he rejected the name of Jesuit, and would be
called disciple. In Rome and other countries that give him freedom, he wears a mask upon his
heart; in England he shifts it, and puts it upon his face. No place in our climate holds him
so securely as a lady's chamber; the modesty of the pursuivant hath only forborne the bed,
and so missed him. There is no disease in Christendom that may so properly be called the King's
evil. To conclude, would you know him beyond sea? In his seminary he's a fox, but in the inquisition
a lion rampant.

AN EXCELLENT ACTOR.

Whatsoever is commendable to the grave orator is most exquisitely perfect in him, for by a
full and significant action of body he charms our attention. Sit in a full theatre and you
will think you see so many lines drawn from the circumference of so many ears, while the actor
is the centre. He doth not strive to make nature monstrous; she is often seen in the same scene
with him, but neither on stilts nor crutches; and for his voice, 'tis not lower than the prompter,
nor louder than the foil or target. By his action he fortifies moral precepts with examples,
for what we see him personate we think truly done before us: a man of a deep thought might
apprehend the ghost of our ancient heroes walked again, and take him at several times for many
of them. He is much affected to painting, and 'tis a question whether that make him an excellent
player, or his playing an exquisite painter. He adds grace to the poet's labours, for what
in the poet is but ditty, in him is both ditty and music. He entertains us in the best leisure
of our life--that is, between meals; the most unfit time for study or bodily exercise. The
flight of hawks and chase of wild beasts, either of them are delights noble; but some think
this sport of men the worthier, despite all calumny. All men have been of his occupation; and
indeed, what he doth feignedly, that do others essentially. This day one plays a monarch, the
next a private person; here one acts a tyrant, on the morrow an exile; a parasite this man
tonight, tomorrow a precisian; and so of divers others. I observe, of all men living, a worthy
actor in one kind is the strongest motive of affection that can be; for, when he dies, we cannot
be persuaded any man can do his parts like him. But, to conclude, I value a worthy actor by
the corruption of some few of the quality as I would do gold in the ore--I should not mind
the dross, but the purity of the metal.

A FRANKLIN.

His outside is an ancient yeoman of England, though his inside may give arms with the best
gentleman and never see the herald. There is no truer servant in the house than himself. Though
he be master, he says not to his servants, "Go to field," but "Let us go;" and with his own
eye doth both fatten his flock and set forward all manner of husbandry. He is taught by nature
to be contented with a little; his own fold yields him both food and raiment; he is pleased
with any nourishment God sends, whilst curious gluttony ransacks, as it were, Noah's ark for
food only to feed the riot of one meal. He is never known to go to law; understanding, to be
law-bound among men is to be hide-bound among his beasts; they thrive not under it, and that
such men sleep as unquietly as if their pillows were stuffed with lawyers' penknives. When
he builds no poor tenant's cottage hinders his prospect: they are indeed his almshouses, though
there be painted on them no such superscription. He never sits up late but when he hunts the
badger, the vowed foe of his lambs; nor uses he any cruelty but when he hunts the hare; nor
subtilty but when he setteth snares for the snipe or pitfalls for the blackbird; nor oppression
but when, in the month of July, he goes to the next river and shears his sheep. He allows of
honest pastime, and thinks not the bones of the dead anything bruised or the worse for it though
the country lasses dance in the churchyard after evensong. Rock Monday and the wake in summer,
Shrovings, the wakeful catches on Christmas Eve, the hockey or seed-cake, these he yearly keeps,
yet holds them no relics of popery. He is not so inquisitive after news derived from the privy
closet, when the finding an eyry of hawks in his own ground, or the foaling of a colt come
of a good strain, are tidings more pleasant, more profitable. He is lord paramount within himself,
though he hold by never so mean a tenure, and dies the more contentedly, though he leave his
heir young, in regard he leaves him not liable to a covetous garden. Lastly, to end him, he
cares not when his end comes; he needs not fear his audit, for his quietus is in heaven.

A RHYMER

Is a fellow whose face is hatched all over with impudence, and should he be hanged or pilloried,
'tis armed for it. He is a juggler with words, yet practises the art of most uncleanly conveyance.
He doth boggle very often, and because himself winks at it, thinks 'tis not perceived. The
main thing that ever he did was the tune he sang to. There is nothing in the earth so pitiful--no,
not an ape-carrier; he is not worth thinking of, and, therefore, I must leave him as nature
left him--a dunghill not well laid together.

A COVETOUS MAN.

This man would love, honour, and adore God if there were an I more in his name. He hath coffined
up his soul in his chests before his body: he could wish he were in Midas his taking for hunger,
on condition he had his chemical quality. At the grant of a new subsidy he would gladly hang
himself, were it not for the charge of buying a rope, and begins to take money upon use when
he hears of a privy seal. His morning prayer is to overlook his bags, whose every parcel begets
his adoration. Then to his studies, which are how to cozen this tenant, beggar that widow,
or to undo some orphan. Then his bonds are viewed, the well-known days of payment conned by
heart; and if he ever pray, it is some one may break his day that the beloved forfeiture may
be obtained. His use is doubled, and no one sixpence begot or born but presently, by an untimely
thrift, it is getting more. His chimney must not be acquainted with fire for fear of mischance;
but if extremity of cold pinch him, he gets him heat with looking on, and sometime removing
his aged wood-pile, which he means to leave to many descents, till it hath outlived all the
woods of that country. He never spends candle but at Christmas (when he has them for New Year's
gifts), in hope that his servants will break glasses for want of light, which they double pay
for in their wages. His actions are guilty of more crimes than any other men's, thoughts; and
he conceives no sin which he dare not act save only lust, from which he abstains for fear he
should be charged with keeping bastards. Once a year he feasts, the relics of which meal shall
serve him the next quarter. In his talk he rails against eating of breakfasts, drinking betwixt
meals, and swears he is impoverished with paying of tithes. He had rather have the frame of
the fall than the price of corn. If he chance to travel he curses his fortune that his place
binds him to ride, and his faithful cloak-bag is sure to take care for his provision. His nights
are as troublesome as his days; every rat awakes him out of his unquiet sleeps. If he have
a daughter to marry, he wishes he were in Hungary, or might follow the custom of that country,
that all her portion might be a wedding-gown. If he fall sick, he had rather die a thousand
deaths than pay for any physic; and if he might have his choice, he would not go to heaven
but on condition he may put money to use there. In fine, he lives a drudge, dies a wretch that
leaves a heap of pelf, which so many careful hands had scraped together, to haste after him
to hell, and by the way it lodges in a lawyer's purse.

THE PROUD MAN

Is one in whom pride is a quality that condemns every one besides his master, who, when he
wears new clothes, thinks himself wronged if they be not observed, imitated, and his discretion
in the choice of his fashion and stuff applauded. When he vouchsafes to bless the air with
his presence, he goes as near the wall as his satin suit will give him leave, and every passenger
he views under the eyebrows, to observe whether he vails his bonnet low enough, which he returns
with an imperious nod. He never salutes first, but his farewell is perpetual. In his attire
he is effeminate; every hair knows his own station, which if it chance to lose it is checked
in again with his pocket-comb. He had rather have the whole commonwealth out of order than
the least member of his muchato, and chooses rather to lose his patrimony than to have his
band ruffled. At a feast, if he be not placed in the highest seat, he eats nothing howsoever;
he drinks to no man, talks with no man for fear of familiarity. He professeth to keep his stomach
for the pheasant or the quail, and when they come he can eat little; he hath been so cloyed
with them that year, although they be the first he saw. In his discourse he talks of none but
privy councillors, and is as prone to belie their acquaintance as he is a lady's favours. If
he have but twelve pence in his purse, he will give it for the best room in a playhouse. He
goes to sermons only to show his gay clothes, and if on other inferior days he chance to meet
his friend, he is sorry he sees him not in his best suit.

A PRISON.

It should be Christ's Hospital, for most of your wealthy citizens are good benefactors to it;
and yet it can hardly be so, because so few in it are kept upon alms. Charity's house and this
are built many miles asunder. One thing notwithstanding is here praiseworthy, for men in this
persecution cannot choose but prove good Christians, in that they are a kind of martyrs, and
suffer for the truth. And yet it is so cursed a piece of land that the son is ashamed to be
his father's heir in it. It is an infected pest-house all the year long; the plague-sores of
the law are the diseases here hotly reigning. The surgeons are atomies and pettifoggers, who
kill more than they cure. Lord have mercy upon us, may well stand over these doors, for debt
is a most dangerous and catching city pestilence. Some take this place for the walks in Moorfields
(by reason the madmen are so near), but the crosses here and there are not alike. No, it is
not half so sweet an air. For it is the dunghill of the law, upon which are thrown the ruins
of gentry, and the nasty heaps of voluntary decayed bankrupts, by which means it comes to be
a perfect medal of the iron age, since nothing but jingling of keys, rattling of shackles,
bolts, and grates are here to be heard. It is the horse of Troy, in whose womb are shut up
all the mad Greeks that were men of action. The nullum vacuum (unless in prisoners' bellies)
is here truly to be proved. One excellent effect is wrought by the place itself, for the arrantest
coward breathing, being posted hither, comes in three days to an admirable stomach. Does any
man desire to learn music; every man here sings "Lachrymse" at first sight, and is hardly out.
He runs division upon every note, and yet (to their commendations be it spoken) none of them
for all that division do trouble the Church. They are no Anabaptists; if you ask under what
horizon this climate lies, the Bermudas and it are both under one and the same height. And
whereas some suppose that this island like that is haunted with devils, it is not so. For those
devils so talked of and feared are none else but hoggish jailors. Hither you need not sail,
for it is a ship of itself; the master's side is the upper deck. They in the common jail lie
under hatches, and help to ballast it. Intricate cases are the tacklings, executions the anchors,
capiases the cables, chancery bills the huge sails, a long term the mast, law the helm, a judge
the pilot, a counsel the purser, an attorney the boatswain, his Setting clerk the swabber,
bonds the waves, outlawries gust, the verdict of juries rough wind, extents the knocks that
split all in pieces. Or if it be not a ship, yet this and a ship differ not much in the building;
the one is moving misery, the other a standing. The first is seated on a spring, the second
on piles. Either this place is an emblem of a bawdy house, or a bawdy house of it; for nothing
is to be seen in any room but scurvy beds and bare walls. But (not so much to dishonour it)
it is an university of poor scholars, in which three arts are chiefly studied: to pray, to
curse, and to write letters.

A PRISONER

Is one that hath been a monied man, and is still a very close fellow; whosoever is of his acquaintance,
let them make much of him, for they shall find him as fast a friend as any in England: he is
a sure man, and you know where to find him. The corruption of a bankrupt is commonly the generation
of this creature. He dwells on the back side of the world, or in the suburbs of society, and
lives in a tenement which he is sure none will go about to take over his head. To a man that
walks abroad, he is one of the antipodes, that goes on the top of the world, and this under
it. At his first coming in, he is a piece of new coin, all sharking old prisoners lie sucking
at his purse. An old man and he are much alike, neither of them both go far. They are still
angry and peevish, and they sleep little. He was born at the fall of Babel, the confusion of
languages is only in his mouth. All the vacations he speaks as good English as any man in England,
but in term times he breaks out of that hopping one-legged pace into a racking trot of issues,
bills, replications, rejoinders, demures, querelles, subpoenas, &c., able to fright a simple
country fellow, and make him believe he conjures. Whatsoever his complexion was before, it
turns in this place to choler or deep melancholy, so that he needs every hour to take physic
to loose his body; for that, like his estate, is very foul and corrupt, and extremely hard
bound. The taking of an execution off his stomach give him five or six stools, and leaves his
body very soluble. The withdrawing of an action is a vomit. He is no sound man, and yet an
utter barrister, nay, a sergeant of the case, will feed heartily upon him; he is very good
picking meat for a lawyer. The barber-surgeons may, if they will, beg him for an anatomy after
he hath suffered an execution. An excellent lecture may be made upon his body; for he is a
kind of dead carcase--creditors, lawyers, and jailors devour it: creditors peck out his eyes
with his own tears; lawyers flay off his own skin, and lap him in parchment; and jailors are
the Promethean vultures that gnaw his very heart. He is a bond-slave to the law, and, albeit
he were a shopkeeper in London, yet he cannot with safe conscience write himself a freeman.
His religion is of five or six colours: this day he prays that God would turn the hearts of
his creditors, and to-morrow he curseth the time that ever he saw them. His apparel is daubed
commonly with statute lace, the suit itself of durance, and the hose full of long pains. He
hath many other lasting suits which he himself is never able to wear out, for they wear out
him. The zodiac of his life is like that of the sun, marry not half so glorious. It begins
in Aries and ends in Pisces. Both head and feet are, all the year long, in troublesome and
laborious motions, and Westminster Hall is his sphere. He lives between the two tropics Cancer
and Capricorn, and by that means is in double danger of crabbed creditors for his purse, and
horns for his head, if his wife's heels be light. If he be a gentleman, he alters his arms
so soon as he comes in. Few here carry fields or argent, but whatsoever they bear before, here
they give only sables. Whiles he lies by it, he is travelling over the Alps, and the hearts
of his creditors are the snows that lie unmelted in the middle of summer. He is an almanac
out of date; none of his days speak of fair weather. Of all the files of men, he marcheth in
the last, and comes limping, for he is shot, and is no man of this world. He hath lost his
way, and being benighted, strayed into a wood full of wolves, and nothing so hard as to get
away without being devoured. He that walks from six to six in Paul's goes still but a quoit's
cast before this man.

A CREDITOR

Is a fellow that torments men for their good conditions. He is one of Deucalion's sons, begotten
of a stone. The marble images in the Temple Church that lie cross-legged do much resemble him,
saving that this is a little more cross. He wears a forfeited bond under that part of his girdle
where his thumb sticks, with as much pride as a Welshman does a leek on St. David's Day, and
quarrels more and longer about it. He is a catchpole's morning's draught, for the news that
such a gallant has come yesternight to town, draws out of him both muscadel and money too.
He says the Lord's Prayer backwards, or, to speak better of him, he hath a Paternoster by himself,
and that particle, Forgive us our debts, as we forgive others, &c., he either quite leaves
out, or else leaps over it. It is a dangerous rub in the alley of his conscience. He is the
bloodhound of the law, and hunts counter, very swiftly and with great judgment. He hath a quick
scent to smell out his game, and a good deep mouth to pursue it, yet never opens till he bites,
and bites not till he kills, or at least draws blood, and then he pincheth most doggedly. He
is a lawyer's mule, and the only beast upon which he ambles so often to Westminster. And a
lawyer is his God Almighty, in him only he trusts. To him he flies in all his troubles; from
him he seeks succour. To him he prays, that he may by his means overcome his enemies. Him does
he worship both in the temple and abroad, and hopes by him and good angels to prosper in all
his actions. A scrivener is his farrier, and helps to recover all his diseased and maimed obligations.
Every term he sets up a tenters in Westminster Hall, upon which he racks and stretches gentlemen
like English broadcloth, beyond the staple of the wool, till the threads crack, and that causeth
them with the least wet to shrink, and presently to wear bars. Marry, he handles a citizen
(at least if himself be one) like a piece of Spanish cloth, gives him only a twitch, and strains
him not too hard, knowing how apt he is to break of himself, and then he can cut nothing out
of him but threads. To the one he comes like Tamburlain, with his black and bloody flag; but
to the other his white one hangs out, and, upon the parley, rather than fail, he takes ten
groats in the pound for his ransom, and so lets him march away with bag and baggage. From the
beginning of Hilary to the end of Michaelmas his purse is full of quicksilver, and that sets
him running from sunrise to sunset up Fleet Street, and so to the Chancery, from thence to
Westminster, then back to one court, after that to another. Then to an attorney, then to a
councillor, and in every of these places he melts some of his fat (his money). In the vacation
he goes to grass, and gets up his flesh again, which he baits as you heard. If he were to be
hanged unless he could be saved by his book, he cannot for his heart call for a psalm of mercy.
He is a law-trap baited with parchment and wax. The fearful mice he catches are debtors, with
whom scratching attorneys, like cats, play a good while, and then mouse them. The bally is
an insatiable creditor, but man worse.

A SERGEANT

Was once taken, when he bare office in his parish, for an honest man. The spawn of a decayed
shopkeeper begets this fry; out of that dunghill is this serpent's egg hatched. It is a devil
made sometime out of one of the twelve companies, and does but study the part and rehearse
it on earth, to be perfect when he comes to act it in hell; that is his stage. The hangman
and he are twins; only the hangman is the elder brother, and he dying without issue, as commonly
he does, for none but a ropemaker's widow will marry him, this then inherits. His habit is
a long gown, made at first to cover his knavery, but that growing too monstrous, he now goes
in buff; his conscience and that being both cut out of one hide, and are of one toughness.
The Counter-gate is his kennel, the whole city his Paris gardens; the misery of a poor man,
but especially a bad liver, is the offals on which he feeds. The devil calls him his white
son; he is so like him that he is the worse for it, and he takes after his father, for the
one torments bodies as fast as the other tortures souls. Money is the crust he leaps at; cry,
"a duck! a duck!" and he plunges not so eagerly as at this. The dog's chaps water to fetch
nothing else; he hath his name for the same quality. For sergeant is quasi See argent, look
you, rogue, here is money. He goes muffled like a thief, and carries still the marks of one;
for he steals upon man cowardly, plucks him by the throat, makes him stand, and fleeces him.
In this they differ, the thief is more valiant and more honest. His walks in term times are
up Fleet Street, at the end of the term up Holborn, and so to Tyburn; the gallows are his purlieus,
in which the hangman and he are quarter rangers--the one turns off, and the other cuts down.
All the vacation he lies imbogued behind the lattice of some blind drunken, bawdy ale-house,
and if he spy his prey, out he leaps like a freebooter, and rifles, or like a ban-dog worries.
No officer to the city keeps his oath so uprightly; he never is forsworn, for he swears to
be true varlet to the city, and he continues so to his dying day. Mace, which is so comfortable
to the stomach in all kind of meats, turns in his hand to mortal poison. This raven pecks not
out men's eyes as others do; all his spite is at their shoulders, and you were better to have
the nightmare ride you than this incubus. When any of the furies of hell die, this Cacodeemon
hath the reversion of his place. The city is (by the custom) to feed him with good meat, as
they send dead horses to their hounds, only to keep them both in good heart, for not only those
curs at the doghouse, but these within the walls, are to serve in their paces in their several
huntings. He is a citizen's birdlime, and where he holds he hangs.

HIS YEOMAN

Is the hanger that a sergeant wears by his side; it is a false die of the same ball but not
the same cut, for it runs somewhat higher and does more mischief. It is a tumbler to drive
in the conies. He is yet but a bungler, and knows not how to cut up a man without tearing,
but by a pattern. One term fleshes him, or a Fleet Street breakfast. The devil is but his father-in-law,
and yet for the love he bears him will leave him as much as if he were his own child. And for
that cause (instead of prayers) he does every morning at the Counter-gate ask him blessing,
and thrives the better in his actions all the day after. This is the hook that hangs under
water to choke the fish, and his sergeant is the quill above water, which pops down so soon
as ever the bait is swallowed. It is indeed an otter, and the more terrible destroyer of the
two. This counter-rat hath a tail as long as his fellows, but his teeth are more sharp and
he more hungry, because he does but snap, and hath not his full half-share of the booty. The
eye of this wolf is as quick in his head as a cutpurse's in a throng, and as nimble is he at
his business as an hangman at an execution. His office is as the dogs do worry the sheep first,
or drive him to the shambles; the butcher that cuts his throat steps out afterwards, and that's
his sergeant. His living lies within the city, but his conscience lies bed-rid in one of the
holes of a counter. This eel is bred too out of the mud of a bankrupt, and dies commonly with
his guts ripped up, or else a sudden stab sends him of his last errand. He will very greedily
take a cut with a sword, and suck more silver out of the wound than his surgeon shall. His
beginning is detestable, his courses desperate, and his end damnable.

A COMMON CRUEL JAILOR

Is a creature mistaken in the making, for he should be a tiger; but the shape being thought
too terrible, it is covered, and he wears the vizor of a man, yet retains the qualities of
his former fierceness, currishness, and ravening. Of that red earth of which man was fashioned
this piece was the basest, of the rubbish which was left and thrown by came this jailor; his
descent is then more ancient, but more ignoble, for he comes of the race of those angels that
fell with Lucifer from heaven, whither he never (or very hardly) returns. Of all his bunches
of keys not one hath wards to open that door, for this jailor's soul stands not upon those
two pillars that support heaven (justice and mercy), it rather sits upon those two footstools
of hell, wrong and cruelty. He is a judge's slave, and a prisoner's his. In this they differ;
he is a voluntary one, the other compelled. He is the hangman of the law with a lame hand,
and if the law gave him all his limbs perfect he would strike those on whom he is glad to fawn.
In fighting against a debtor he is a creditor's second, but observes not the laws of the duello;
his play is foul, and on all base advantages. His conscience and his shackles hang up together,
and are made very near of the same metal, saving that the one is harder than the other and
hath one property above iron, for that never melts. He distils money out of the poor men's
tears, and grows fat by their curses. No man coming to the practical part of hell can discharge
it better, because here he does nothing but study the theory of it. His house is the picture
of hell in little, and the original of the letters patent of his office stands exemplified
there. A chamber of lousy beds is better worth to him than the best acre of corn-land in England.
Two things are hard to him (nay, almost impossible), viz., to save all his prisoners that none
ever escape, and to be saved himself. His ears are stopped to the cries of others, and God's
to his; and good reason, for lay the life of a man in one scale and his fees on the other,
he will lose the first to find the second. He must look for no mercy if he desires justice
to be done to him, for he shows none; and I think he cares the less, because he knows heaven
hath no need of such tenants--the doors there want no porters, for they stand ever open. If
it were possible for all creatures in the world to sleep every night, he only and a tyrant
cannot. That blessing is taken from them, and this curse comes in the stead, to be ever in
fear and ever hated: what estate can be worse?

WHAT A CHARACTER IS.

If I must speak the schoolmaster's language, I will confess that character comes of this infinitive
mood, [Greek: charassen], which signifies to engrave, or make a deep impression. And for that
cause a letter (as A, B) is called a character: those elements which we learn first, leaving
a strong seal in our memories.

Character is also taken for an Egyptian hieroglyphic, for an impress or short emblem; in little
comprehending much.

To square out a character by our English level, it is a picture (real or personal) quaintly
drawn in various colours, all of them heightened by one shadowing.

It is a quick and soft touch of many strings, all shutting up in one musical close; it is wit's
descant on any plain song.

THE CHARACTER OF A HAPPY LIFE.

AN ESSAY OF VALOUR.

I am of opinion that nothing is so potent either to procure or merit love as valour, and I
am glad I am so, for thereby I shall do myself much ease, because valour never needs much wit
to maintain it. To speak of it in itself, it is a quality which he that hath shall have least
need of; so the best league between princes is a mutual fear of each other. It teacheth a man
to value his reputation as his life, and chiefly to hold the lie insufferable, though being
alone he finds no hurt it doth him. It leaves itself to other's censures; for he that brags
of his own, dissuades others from believing it. It feareth a sword no more than an ague. It
always makes good the owner; for though he be generally held a fool, he shall seldom hear so
much by word of mouth, and that enlargeth him more than any spectacles, for it makes a little
fellow to be called a tall man. It yields the wall to none but a woman, whose weakness is her
prerogative; or a man seconded with a woman, as an usher which always goes before his betters.
It makes a man become the witness of his own words, to stand to whatever he hath said, and
thinketh it a reproach to commit his reviling unto the law. It furnisheth youth with action,
and age with discourse, and both by futures; for a man must never boast himself in the present
tense. And to come nearer home, nothing draws a woman like to it, for valour towards men is
an emblem of an ability towards women, a good quality signifies a better. Nothing is more behoveful
for that sex, for from it they receive protection, and we free from the danger of it; nothing
makes a shorter cut to obtaining, for a man of arms is always void of ceremony, which is the
wall that stands betwixt Pyramus and Thisbe, that is, man and woman, for there is no pride
in women but that which rebounds from our own baseness, as cowards grow valiant upon those
that are more cowards, so that only by our pale asking we teach them to deny. And by our shamefacedness
we put them in mind to be modest, whereas indeed, it is cunning rhetoric to persuade the hearers
that they are that already which we would have them to be. This kind of bashfulness is far
from men of valour, and especially from soldiers, for such are ever men without doubt forward
and confident, losing no time lest they should lose opportunity, which is the best factor for
a lover. And because they know women are given to dissemble, they will never believe them when
they deny. Whilom before this age of wit and wearing black broke in upon us, there was no way
known to win a lady but by tilting, tourneying, and riding through forests, in which time these
slender striplings with little legs were held but of strength enough to marry their widows.
And even in our days there can be given no reason of the inundation of serving-men upon their
mistresses, but only that usually they carry their mistresses' weapons and his valour. To be
counted handsome, just, learned, or well-favoured, all this carries no danger with it, but
it is to be admitted to the title of valiant acts, at least the venturing of his mortality,
and all women take delight to hold him safe in their arms who hath escaped thither through
many dangers. To speak at once, man hath a privilege in valour; in clothes and good faces we
but imitate women, and many of that sex will not think much, as far as an answer goes, to dissemble
wit too. So then these neat youths, these women in men's apparel, are too near a woman to be
beloved of her, they be both of a trade; but he of grim aspect, and such a one a glass dares
take, and she will desire him for newness and variety. A scar in a man's face is the same that
a mole in a woman's, is a jewel set in white to make it seem more white, for a scar in a man
is a mark of honour and no blemish, for 'tis a scar and a blemish in a soldier to be without
one. Now, as for all things else which are to procure love, as a good face, wit clothes, or
a good body, each of them, I confess, may work somewhat for want of a better, that is, if valour
be not their rival. A good face avails nothing if it be in a coward that is bashful, the utmost
of it is to be kissed, which rather increaseth than quencheth appetite. He that sends her gifts
sends her word also that he is a man of small gifts otherwise, for wooing by signs and tokens
employs the author dumb; and if Ovid, who writ the law of love, were alive (as he is extant),
he would allow it as good a diversity that gifts should be sent as gratuities, not as bribes.
Wit getteth rather promise than love. Wit is not to be seen, and no woman takes advice of any
in her loving but of her own eyes and her waiting-woman's; nay, which is worse, wit is not
to be felt, and so no good bedfellow. Wit applied to a woman makes her dissolve her simpering
and discover her teeth with laughter, and this is surely a purge of love, for the beginning
of love is a kind of foolish melancholy. As for the man that makes his tailor his means, and
hopes to inveigle his love with such a coloured suit, surely the same deeply hazards the loss
of her favour upon every change of his clothes. So likewise for the other that courts her silently
with a good body, let me certify him, that his clothes depend upon the comeliness of his body,
and so both upon opinion. She that hath been seduced by apparel let me give her to wit, that
men always put off their clothes before they go to bed. And let her that hath been enamoured
of her servant's body understand, that if she saw him in a skin of cloth, that is, in a suit
made of the pattern of his body, she would see slender cause to love him ever after. There
is no clothes sit so well in a woman's eye as a suit of steel, though not of the fashion, and
no man so soon surpriseth a woman's affections as he that is the subject of all whispering,
and hath always twenty stories of his own deeds depending upon him. Mistake me not; I understand
not by valour one that never fights but when he is backed with drink or anger, or hissed on
with beholders, nor one that is desperate, nor one that takes away a serving-man's weapons
when perchance it cost him his quarter's wages, nor yet one that wears a privy coat of defence
and therein is confident, for then such as made bucklers would be counted the Catilines of
the commonwealth. I intend one of an even resolution grounded upon reason, which is always
even, having his power restrained by the law of not doing wrong. But now I remember I am for
valour, and therefore must be a man of few words.

JOSEPH HALL'S

CHARACTERS OF VICES AND VIRTUES

were published four years earlier than Overbury's, but Overbury's were posthumous, and in actual
time of writing there can have been no very material difference. Hall's age was thirty-four
when he first published his Characters. He was born on the 1st July 1574, at Ashby de la Zouch,
in Leicestershire. His father was governor of this town under the Earl of Huntingdon, when
he was President of the North. His mother, Winifred, was a devout Puritan, and he was from
infancy intended for the Church. In 1589, at the age of fifteen, Joseph Hall was sent to Emmanuel
College, Cambridge, where he was maintained at the cost of an uncle. He passed all his degrees
with applause, obtained a Fellowship of his college in 1595, and proceeded to M.A. in 1596,
and having already obtained credit at Cambridge as an English poet, he published in 1597 "Virgidemiarum,
Sixe Bookes, First Three Books of Toothlesse Satyrs, Poetical, Academical, Moral, followed
in the next year by Three last Bookes of Byting Satyres." Of these Satires he said in their
Prologue--

   "I first adventure, with foolhardy might,
   To tread the steps of perilous despite.
   I first adventure, follow me who list,
   And be the second English satirist."

He could only have meant by this to claim that he was the first in England to write Satires
in the manner of the Latins. He would not bend, he said, to Lady or to Patron--

   "Rather had I, albe in careless rhymes,
   Check the misordered world and lawless times."

Some of these Satires were, of course, of the nature of Characters, and I quote two or three
in passing.

A DOMESTIC CHAPLAIN.

THE WITLESS GALLANT.

Joseph Hall obtained in 1601 the living of Halsted in Suffolk, and married in 1603.

In 1605 Joseph Hall published at Frankfort in Latin a witty satire on the weak side of the
world, which had been written several years earlier, entitled "Mundus Alter et Idem." Of this
book I have given a description in the volume of "Ideal Commonwealths," which forms one of
the series of the "Universal Library." Hall had obtained reputation as a divine, by publishing
two centuries of religious "Meditations," which united wit with piety. Prince Henry, having
sought an opportunity of hearing him preach, made Hall his chaplain, and the Earl of Norwich
gave him the living of Waltham in Essex. At the same time, 1608, a translation of Hall's Latin
Satire, printed twice abroad, was published in London as "The Discovery of a New World;" he
himself published also two volumes of Epistles, and this book of "Characters." There was a
long career before him as a leader among churchmen fallen upon troubled days. He became Bishop
of Exeter and was translated to Norwich. He was committed to the Tower, released, and ejected
from his see, and after ten years of retirement, living upon narrow means at the village of
Higham near Norwich, he died in the Commonwealth time at the age of eighty-two, on the 8th
of September 1656. He took a conspicuous part in the controversy of 1641 about the bishops,
but twenty years before that date a collection of his earlier works had formed a substantial
folio of more than eleven hundred pages. His "Characters of Virtues and Vices," written in
early manhood, follow next in our collection.

CHARACTERS OF VIRTUES AND VICES.

IN TWO BOOKS.

BY JOSEPH HALL.

A PREMONITION or THE TITLE AND USE OF CHARACTERS.

Reader,--The divines of the old heathens were their moral philosophers. These received the
acts of an inbred law, in the Sinai of nature, and delivered them with many expositions to
the multitude. These were the overseers of manners, correctors of vices, directors of lives,
doctors of virtue, which yet taught their people the body of their natural divinity, not after
one manner: while some spent themselves in deep discourses of human felicity and the way to
it in common, others thought it best to apply the general precepts of goodness or decency to
particular conditions and persons. A third sort in a mean course betwixt the two other, and
compounded of them both, bestowed their time in drawing out the true lineaments of every virtue
and vice, so lively, that who saw the medals might know the face; which art they significantly
termed Charactery. Their papers were so many tables, their writings so many speaking pictures,
or living images, whereby the ruder multitude might even by their sense learn to know virtue
and discern what to detest. I am deceived if any course could be more likely to prevail, for
herein the gross conceit is led on with pleasure, and informed while it feels nothing but delight;
and if pictures have been accounted the books of idiots, behold here the benefit of an image
without the offence. It is no shame for us to learn wit of heathens, neither is it material
in whose school we take out a good lesson. Yea, it is more shame not to follow their good than
not to lead them better. As one, therefore, that in worthy examples hold imitation better than
invention, I have trod in their paths, but with an higher and wider step, and out of their
tablets have drawn these larger portraitures of both sorts. More might be said, I deny not,
of every virtue, of every vice; I desired not to say all but enough. If thou do but read or
like these I have spent good hours ill; but if thou shalt hence abjure those vices, which before
thou thoughtest not ill-favoured, or fall in love with any of these goodly faces of virtue,
or shalt hence find where thou hast any little touch of these evils, to clear thyself, or where
any defect in these graces to supply it, neither of us shall need to repent of our labour.

THE FIRST BOOK.

CHARACTERISMS OF VIRTUES.

THE PROEM.

Virtue is not loved enough, because she is not seen; and vice loseth much detestation, because
her ugliness is secret. Certainly, my lords, there are so many beauties, and so many graces
in the face of goodness, that no eye can possibly see it without affection, without ravishment;
and the visage of evil is so monstrous through loathsome deformities, that if her lovers were
not ignorant they would be mad with disdain and astonishment. What need we more than to discover
these two to the world? This work shall save the labour of exhorting and dissuasion. Lo here
then virtue and vice stripped naked to the open view, and despoiled, one of her rags the other
of her ornaments, and nothing left them but bare presence to plead for affection: see now whether
shall find more suitors. And if still the vain minds of lewd men shall dote upon their old
mistress, it will appear to be, not because she is not foul, but for that they are blind and
bewitched. And first behold the goodly features of wisdom, an amiable virtue, and worthy to
lead this stage; which as she extends herself to all the following graces, so amongst the rest
is for her largeness most conspicuous.

CHARACTER OF THE WISE MAN.

There is nothing that he desires not to know, but most and first himself, and not so much his
own strength as his weaknesses; neither is his knowledge reduced to discourse, but practice.
He is a skilful logician, not by nature so much as use; his working mind doth nothing all his
time but make syllogisms and draw out conclusions; everything that he sees and hears serves
for one of the premisses; with these he cares first to inform himself, then to direct others.
Both his eyes are never at once from home, but one keeps house while the other roves abroad
for intelligence. In material and weighty points he abides not his mind suspended in uncertainties,
but hates doubting where he may, where he should be resolute: and first he makes sure work
for his soul, accounting it no safety to be unsettled in the foreknowledge of his small estate.
The best is first regarded; and vain is that regard which endeth not in security. Every care
hath his just order; neither is there any one either neglected or misplaced. He is seldom ever
seen with credulity; for, knowing the falseness of the world, he hath learned to trust himself
always, others so far as he may not be damaged by their disappointment. He seeks his quietness
in secrecy, and is wont both to hide himself in retiredness, and his tongue in himself. He
loves to be guessed at, not known; and to see the world unseen; and when he is forced into
the light, shows by his actions that his obscurity was neither from affectation nor weakness.
His purposes are neither so variable as may argue inconstancy, nor obstinately unchangeable,
but framed according to his after-wits, or the strength of new occasions. He is both an apt
scholar and an excellent master; for both everything he sees informs him, and his mind, enriched
with plentiful observation, can give the best precepts. His free discourse runs back to the
ages past, and recovers events out of memory, and then preventeth time in flying forward to
future things; and comparing one with the other, can give a verdict well near prophetical,
wherein his conjectures are better than another's judgments. His passions are so many good
servants, which stand in a diligent attendance ready to be commanded by reason, by religion;
and if at any time forgetting their duty, they be miscarried to rebel, he can first conceal
their mutiny, then suppress it. In all his just and worthy designs he is never at a loss, but
hath so projected all his courses that a second begins where the first failed, and fetcheth
strength from that which succeeded not. There be wrongs which he will not see, neither doth
he always look that way which he meaneth, nor take notice of his secret smarts, when they come
from great ones. In good turns he loves not to owe more than he must; in evil, to owe and not
pay. Just censures he deserves not, for he lives without the compass of an adversary; unjust
he contemneth, and had rather suffer false infamy to die alone than lay hands upon it in an
open violence. He confineth himself in the circle of his own affairs, and lists not to thrust
his finger into a needless fire. He stands like a centre unmoved, while the circumference of
his estate is drawn above, beneath, about him. Finally, his wit hath cost him much, and he
can both keep, and value, and employ it. He is his own lawyer, the treasury of knowledge, the
oracle of counsel; blind in no man's cause, best sighted in his own.

OF AN HONEST MAN.

He looks not to what he might do, but what he should. Justice is his first guide, the second
law of his actions is expedience. He had rather complain than offend, and hates sin more for
the indignity of it than the danger. His simple uprightness works in him that confidence which
ofttimes wrongs him, and gives advantage to the subtle, when he rather pities their faithlessness
than repents of his credulity. He hath but one heart, and that lies open to sight; and were
it not for discretion, he never thinks aught whereof he would avoid a witness. His word is
his parchment, and his yea his oath, which he will not violate for fear or for loss. The mishaps
of following events may cause him to blame his providence, can never cause him to eat his promise:
neither saith he, This I saw not; but, This I said. When he is made his friend's executor,
he defrays debts, pays legacies, and scorneth to gain by orphans, or to ransack graves, and
therefore will be true to a dead friend, because he sees him not. All his dealings are square
and above the board; he bewrays the fault of what he sells, and restores the overseen gain
of a false reckoning. He esteems a bribe venomous, though it come gilded over with the colour
of gratuity. His cheeks are never stained with the blushes of recantation, neither doth his
tongue falter to make good a lie with the secret glosses of double or reserved senses, and
when his name is traduced his innocency bears him out with courage: then, lo, he goes on the
plain way of truth, and will either triumph in his integrity or suffer with it. His conscience
overrules his providence; so as in all things good or ill, he respects the nature of the actions,
not the sequel. If he see what he must do, let God see what shall follow. He never loadeth
himself with burdens above his strength, beyond his will; and once bound, what he can he will
do, neither doth he will but what he can do. His ear is the sanctuary of his absent friend's
name, of his present friend's secret; neither of them can miscarry in his trust. He remembers
the wrongs of his youth, and repays them with that usury which he himself would not take. He
would rather want than borrow, and beg than not to pay: his fair conditions are without dissembling,
and he loves actions above words. Finally, he hates falsehood worse than death: he is a faithful
client of truth, no man's enemy, and it is a question whether more another man's friend or
his own; and if there were no heaven, yet he would be virtuous.

OF THE FAITHFUL MAN.

His eyes have no other objects but absent and invisible, which they see so clearly as that
to them sense is blind. That which is present they see not; if I may not rather say, that what
is past or future is present to them. Herein he exceeds all others, that to him nothing is
impossible, nothing difficult, whether to bear or undertake. He walks every day with his Maker,
and talks with Him familiarly, and lives ever in heaven, and sees all earthly things beneath
him. When he goes in to converse with God, he wears not his own clothes, but takes them still
out of the rich wardrobe of his Redeemer, and then dares boldly press in and challenge a blessing.
The celestial spirits do not scorn his company; yea, his service. He deals in these worldly
affairs as a stranger, and hath his heart ever at home. Without a written warrant he dare do
nothing, and with it anything. His war is perpetual, without truce, without intermission, and
his victory certain; he meets with the infernal powers, and tramples them under feet. The shield
that he ever bears before him can neither be missed nor pierced; if his hand be wounded, yet
his heart is safe. He is often tripped, seldom foiled, and, if sometimes foiled, never vanquished.
Iniquity hath oft called at the door and craved entertainment, but with a repulse; or, if sin
of force will be his tenant, his Lord he cannot. His faults are few, and those he hath God
will not see. He is allied so high, that he dare call God father, his Saviour brother, heaven
his patrimony, and thinks it no presumption to trust to the attendance of angels. His understanding
is enlightened with the beams of divine truth. God hath acquainted him with His will; and what
he knows he dare confess: there is not more love in his heart than liberty in his tongue. If
torments stand betwixt him and Christ, if death, he contemns them; and if his own parents lie
in his way to God, his holy carelessness makes them his footsteps. His experiments have drawn
forth rules of confidence, which he dares oppose against all the fears of distrust; wherein
he thinks it safe to charge God with what he hath done, with what he hath promised. Examples
are his proofs, and instances his demonstrations. What hath God given which he cannot give?
What have others suffered which he may not be enabled to endure? Is he threatened banishment?
there he sees the dear Evangelist in Patmos. Cutting in pieces? he sees Esai under the saw.
Drowning? he sees Jonah diving into the living gulf? Burning? he sees the three children in
the hot walk of the furnace. Devouring? he sees Daniel in the sealed den amidst his terrible
companions. Stoning? he sees the first martyr under his heap of many gravestones. Heading?
lo, there the Baptist's neck bleeding in Herodias' platter. He emulates their pain, their strength,
their glory. He wearies not himself with cares; for he knows he lives not of his own cost,
not idly omitting means, but not using them with diffidence. In the midst of ill rumours and
amazements his countenance changeth not; for he knows both whom he hath trusted, and whither
death can lead him. He is not so sure he shall die as that he shall be restored, and outfaceth
his death with resurrection. Finally, he is rich in works, busy in obedience, cheerful and
unmoved in expectation, better with evils, in common opinion miserable, but in true judgment
more than a man.

OF THE HUMBLE MAN.

He is a friendly enemy to himself; for, though he be not out of his own favour, no man sets
so low a value of his worth as himself--not out of ignorance or carelessness, but of a voluntary
and meek dejectedness. He admires everything in another, while the same or better in himself
he thinks not unworthily contemned. His eyes are full of his own wants, and others' perfections.
He loves rather to give than take honour; not in a fashion of complimental courtesy, but in
simplicity of his judgment. Neither doth he fret at those on whom he forceth precedence, as
one that hoped their modesty would have refused; but holds his mind unfeignedly below his place,
and is ready to go lower (if need be) without discontent. When he hath his due, he magnifieth
courtesy, and disclaims his deserts. He can be more ashamed of honour than grieved with contempt;
because he thinks that causeless, this deserved. His face, his carriage, his habit, savour
of lowliness without affectation, and yet he is much under that he seemeth. His words are few
and soft, never either peremptory or censorious; because he thinks both each man more wise,
and none more faulty than himself. And, when he approacheth to the throne of God, he is so
taken up with the Divine greatness that, in his own eyes, he is either vile or nothing. Places
of public charge are fain to sue to him, and hail him out of his chosen obscurity; which he
holds ofif, not cunningly, to cause importunity, but sincerely, in the conscience of his defects.
He frequenteth not the stages of common resorts, and then alone thinks himself in his natural
element when he is shrouded within his own walls. He is ever jealous over himself, and still
suspecteth that which others applaud. There is no better object of beneficence; for what he
receives he ascribes merely to the bounty of the giver, nothing to merit. He emulates no man
in anything but goodness, and that with more desire than hope to overtake. No man is so contented
with his little, and so patient under miseries; because he knows the greatest evils are below
his sins, and the least favours above his deservings. He walks ever in awe, and dare not but
subject every word and action to an high and just censure. He is a lowly valley, sweetly planted
and well watered; the proud man's earth, whereon he trampleth; but secretly full of wealthy
mines, more worth than he that walks over them; a rich stone set in lead; and, lastly, a true
temple of God built with a low roof.

OF A VALIANT MAN.

He undertakes without rashness, and performs without fear; he seeks not for dangers, but, when
they find him, he bears them over with courage, with success. He hath ofttimes looked death
in the face, and passed by it with a smile; and when he sees he must yield, doth at once welcome
and contemn it. He forecasts the worst of all events, and encounters them before they come
in a secret and mental war. And if the suddenness of an unexpected evil have surprised his
thoughts, and infected his cheeks with paleness, he hath no sooner digested it in his conceit
than he gathers up himself, and insults over mischief. He is the master of himself, and subdues
his passions to reason, and by this inward victory works his own peace. He is afraid of nothing
but the displeasure of the Highest, and runs away from nothing but sin: he looks not on his
hands, but his cause; not how strong he is, but how innocent: and, where goodness is his warrant,
he may be over-mastered; he cannot be foiled. The sword is to him the last of all trials, which
he draws forth still as defendant, not as challenger, with a willing kind of unwillingness:
no man can better manage it, with more safety, with more favour; he had rather have his blood
seen than his back, and disdains life upon base conditions. No man is more mild to a relenting
or vanquished adversary, or more hates to set his foot on a carcase. He had rather smother
an injury than revenge himself of the impotent, and I know not whether he more detests cowardliness
or cruelty. He talks little, and brags less; and loves rather the silent language of the hand,
to be seen than heard. He lies ever close within himself, armed with wise resolution, and will
not be discovered but by death or danger. He is neither prodigal of blood to misspend it idly,
nor niggardly to grudge it, when either God calls for it, or his country; neither is he more
liberal of his own life than of others. His power is limited by his will, and he holds it the
noblest revenge, that he might hurt and doth not. He commands without tyranny and imperiousness,
obeys without servility, and changes not his mind with his estate. The height of his spirits
overlooks all casualties, and his boldness proceeds neither from ignorance nor senselessness;
but first he values evils, and then despises them. He is so balanced with wisdom that he floats
steadily in the midst of all tempests. Deliberate in his purposes, firm in resolution, bold
in enterprising, unwearied in achieving, and howsoever happy in success; and if ever he be
overcome, his heart yields last.

OF A PATIENT MAN.

The patient man is made of a metal, not so hard as flexible: his shoulders are large, fit for
a load of injuries; which he bears not out of baseness and cowardliness, because he dare not
revenge, but out of Christian fortitude, because he may not: he has so conquered himself that
wrongs cannot conquer him; and herein alone finds that victory consists in yielding. He is
above nature, while he seems below himself. The vilest creature knows how to turn again; but
to command himself not to resist being urged is more than heroical. His constructions are ever
full of charity and favour; either this wrong was not done, or not with intent of wrong; or
if that, upon mis-information; or if none of these, rashness (though a fault) shall serve for
an excuse. Himself craves the offender's pardon before his confession; and a slight answer
contents where the offended desires to forgive. He is God's best witness; and when he stands
before the bar for truth his tongue is calmly free, his forehead firm, and he with erect and
settled countenance hears his just sentence, and rejoices in it. The jailors that attend him
are to him his pages of honour; his dungeon, the lower part of the vault of heaven; his rack
or wheel, the stairs of his ascent to glory: he challenges his executioners, and encounters
the fiercest pains with strength of resolution; and while he suffers the beholders pity him,
the tormentors complain of weariness, and both of them wonder. No anguish can master him, whether
by violence or by lingering. He accounts expectation no punishment, and can abide to have his
hopes adjourned till a new day. Good laws serve for his protection, not for his revenge; and
his own power, to avoid indignities, not to return them. His hopes are so strong that they
can insult over the greatest discouragements; and his apprehensions so deep that, when he hath
once fastened, he sooner leaveth his life than his hold. Neither time nor perverseness can
make him cast off his charitable endeavours and despair of prevailing; but in spite of all
crosses and all denials, he redoubleth his beneficial offers of love. He trieth the sea after
many shipwrecks, and beats still at that door which he never saw opened. Contrariety of events
doth but exercise, not dismay him; and when crosses afflict him, he sees a divine hand invisibly
striking with these sensible scourges, against which he dares not rebel nor murmur. Hence all
things befall him alike; and he goes with the same mind to the shambles and to the fold. His
recreations are calm and gentle, and not more full of relaxation than void of fury. This man
only can turn necessity into virtue, and put evil to good use. He is the surest friend, the
latest and easiest enemy, the greatest conqueror, and so much more happy than others, by how
much he could abide to be more miserable.

OF THE TRUE FRIEND.

His affections are both united and divided; united to him he loveth, divided betwixt another
and himself; and his one heart is so parted, that whilst he has some his friend hath all. His
choice is led by virtue, or by the best of virtues, religion; not by gain, not by pleasure;
yet not without respect of equal condition, of disposition not unlike; which, once made, admits
of no change, except he whom he loveth be changed quite from himself; nor that suddenly, but
after long expectation. Extremity doth but fasten him, whilst he, like a well-wrought vault,
lies the stronger, by how much more weight he bears. When necessity calls him to it, he can
be a servant to his equal, with the same will wherewith he can command his inferior; and though
he rise to honour, forgets not his familiarity, nor suffers inequality of estate to work strangeness
of countenance; on the other side, he lifts up his friend to advancement with a willing hand,
without envy, without dissimulation. When his mate is dead, he accounts himself but half alive;
then his love, not dissolved by death, derives itself to those orphans which never knew the
price of their father; they become the heirs of his affection, and the burden of his cares.
He embraces a free community of all things, save those which either honesty reserves proper,
or nature; and hates to enjoy that which would do his friend more good. His charity serves
to cloak noted infirmities, not by untruth, not by flattery, but by discreet secrecy; neither
is he more favourable in concealment, than round in his private reprehensions; and when another's
simple fidelity shows itself in his reproof, he loves his monitor so much the more, by how
much more he smarteth. His bosom is his friend's closet, where he may safely lay up his complaints,
his doubts, his cares; and look how he leaves, so he finds them; save for some addition of
seasonable counsel for redress. If some unhappy suggestion shall either disjoint his affection
or break it, it soon knits again, and grows the stronger by that stress. He is so sensible
of another's injuries, that when his friend is stricken he cries out and equally smarteth untouched,
as one affected not with sympathy, but with a real feeling of pain: and in what mischief may
be prevented, he interposeth his aid, and offers to redeem his friend with himself. No hour
can be unseasonable, no business difficult, nor pain grievous in condition of his ease: and
what either he doth or suffers, he neither cares nor desires to have known, lest he should
seem to look for thanks. If he can therefore steal the performance of a good office unseen,
the conscience of his faithfulness herein is so much sweeter as it is more secret. In favours
done, his memory is frail; in benefits received, eternal: he scorneth either to regard recompense
or not to offer it. He is the comfort of miseries, the guide of difficulties, the joy of life,
the treasure of earth, and no other than a good angel clothed in flesh.

OF THE TRULY NOBLE.

He stands not upon what he borrowed of his ancestors, but thinks he must work out his own honour:
and if he cannot reach the virtue of them that gave him outward glory by inheritance, he is
more abashed of his impotency than transported with a great name. Greatness doth not make him
scornful and imperious, but rather like the fixed stars; the higher he is, the less he desires
to seem. Neither cares he so much for pomp and frothy ostentation as for the solid truth of
nobleness. Courtesy and sweet affability can be no more severed from him than life from his
soul; not out of a base and servile popularity, and desire of ambitious insinuation, but of
a native gentleness of disposition, and true value of himself. His hand is open and bounteous,
yet not so as that he should rather respect his glory than his estate; wherein his wisdom can
distinguish betwixt parasites and friends, betwixt changing of favours and expending them.
He scorneth to make his height a privilege of looseness, but accounts his titles vain if he
be inferior to others in goodness: and thinks he should be more strict the more eminent he
is, because he is more observed, and now his offences are become more exemplar. There is no
virtue that he holds unfit for ornament, for use; nor any vice which he condemns not as sordid,
and a fit companion of baseness; and whereof he doth not more hate the blemish, than affect
the pleasure. He so studies as one that knows ignorance can neither purchase honour nor wield
it; and that knowledge must both guide and grace, him. His exercises are from his childhood
ingenious, manly, decent, and such as tend still to wit, valour, activity: and if (as seldom)
he descend to disports of chance, his games shall never make him either pale with fear or hot
with desire of gain. He doth not so use his followers, as if he thought they were made for
nothing but his servitude, whose felicity were only to be commanded and please: wearing them
to the back, and then either finding or framing excuses to discard them empty; but upon all
opportunities lets them feel the sweetness of their own serviceableness and his bounty. Silence
in officious service is the best oratory to plead for his respect: all diligence is but lent
to him, none lost. His wealth stands in receiving, his honour in giving. He cares not either
how many hold of his goodness, or to how few he is beholden: and if he have cast away favours,
he hates either to upbraid them to his enemy, or to challenge restitution. None can be more
pitiful to the distressed, or more prone to succour; and then most where is least means to
solicit, least possibility of requital. He is equally addressed to war and peace; and knows
not more how to command others, than how to be his country's servant in both. He is more careful
to give true honour to his Maker than to receive civil honour from men. He knows that this
service is free and noble, and ever loaded with sincere glory; and how vain it is to hunt after
applause from the world till he be sure of Him that mouldeth all hearts, and poureth contempt
on princes; and shortly, so demeans himself as one that accounts the body of nobility to consist
in blood, the soul in the eminence of virtue.

OF THE GOOD MAGISTRATE.

He is the faithful deputy of his Maker, whose obedience is the rule whereby he ruleth. His
breast is the ocean, whereinto all the cares of private men empty themselves; which, as he
receives without complaint and overflowing, so he sends them forth again by a wise conveyance
in the streams of justice. His doors, his ears, are ever open to suitors; and not who comes
first speeds well, but whose cause is best. His nights, his meals, are short and interrupted;
all which he bears well, because he knows himself made for a public servant of peace and justice.
He sits quietly at the stern, and commands one to the topsail, another to the main, a third
to the plummet, a fourth to the anchor, as he sees the needs of their course and weather requires;
and doth no less by his tongue than all the mariners with their hands. On the bench he is another
from himself at home; now all private respects of blood, alliance, amity are forgotten; and
if his own son come under trial he knows him not. Pity, which in all others is wont to be the
best praise of humanity and the fruit of Christian love, is by him thrown over the bar for
corruption. As for Favour, the false advocate of the gracious, he allows him not to appear
in the court; there only causes are heard speak, not persons. Eloquence is then only not dis-couraged
when she serves for a client of truth. Mere narrations are allowed in this oratory, not proems,
not excursions, not glosses. Truth must strip herself and come in naked to his bar, without
false bodies or colours, without disguises. A bribe in his closet, or a letter on the bench,
or the whispering and winks of a great neighbour, are answered with an angry and courageous
repulse. Displeasure, Revenge, Recompense stand on both sides the bench, but he scorns to turn
his eye towards them, looking only right forward at Equity, which stands full before him. His
sentence is ever deliberate and guided with ripe wisdom, yet his hand is slower than his tongue;
but when he is urged by occasion either to doom or execution, he shows how much he hateth merciful
injustice. Neither can his resolution or act be reversed with partial importunity. His forehead
is rugged and severe, able to discountenance villainy, yet his words are more awful than his
brow, and his hand than his words. I know not whether he be more feared or loved, both affections
are so sweetly contempered in all hearts. The good fear him lovingly, the middle sort love
him fearfully, and only the wicked man fears him slavishly without love. He hates to pay private
wrongs with the advantage of his office; and if ever he be partial, it is to his enemy. He
is not more sage in his gown than valorous in arms, and increaseth in the rigour of discipline
as the times in danger. His sword hath neither rusted for want of use, nor surfeiteth of blood;
but after many threats is unsheathed, as the dreadful instrument of divine revenge. He is the
guard of good laws, the refuge of innocence, the comet of the guilty, the paymaster of good
deserts, the champion of justice, the patron of peace, the tutor of the Church, the father
of his country, and as it were another God upon earth.

OF THE PENITENT.

He has a wounded heart and a sad face, yet not so much for fear as for unkindness. The wrong
of his sin troubles him more than the danger. None but he is the better for his sorrow; neither
is any passion more hurtful to others than this is gainful to him: the more he seeks to hide
his grief, the less it will be hid; every man may read it not only in his eyes, but in his
bones. Whilst he is in charity with all others, he is so fallen out with himself that none
but God can reconcile him. He hath sued himself in all courts, accuseth, arraigneth, sentenceth,
punisheth himself impartially, and sooner may find mercy at any hand than at his own. He only
hath pulled off the fair visor of sin; so as that which appears not but masked unto others,
is seen of him barefaced, and bewrays that fearful ugliness, which none can conceive but he
that hath viewed it. He hath looked into the depth of the bottomless pit, and hath seen his
own offence tormented in others, and the same brands shaken at him. He hath seen the change
of faces in that cool one, as a tempter, as a tormentor; and hath heard the noise of a conscience,
and is so frightened with all these, that he can never have rest till he have run out of himself
to God, in whose face at first he find rigour, but afterwards sweetness in his bosom; he bleeds
first from the hand that heals him. The law of God hath made work for mercy, which he hath
no sooner apprehended than he forgets his wounds, and looks carelessly upon all these terrors
of guiltiness. When he casts his eye back upon himself, he wonders where he was and how he
came there; and grants that if there were not some witchcraft in sin, he could not have been
so sottishly graceless. And now, in the issue, Satan finds (not without indignation and repentance)
that he hath done him a good turn in tempting him: for he had never been so good if he had
not sinned; he had never fought with such courage, if he had not seen his blood and been ashamed
of his folly. Now he is seen and felt in the front of the spiritual battle; and can teach others
how to fight, and encourage them in fighting. His heart was never more taken up with the pleasure
of sin, than now with care of avoiding it: the very sight of that cup, wherein such a fulsome
portion was brought him, turns his stomach: the first offers of sin make him tremble more now
than he did before at the judgments of his sin; neither dares he so much as look towards Sodom.
All the powers and craft of hell cannot fetch him in for a customer to evil; his infirmity
may yield once, his resolution never. There is none of his senses or parts, which he hath not
within covenants for their good behaviour, which they cannot ever break with impunity. The
wrongs of his sin he repays to men with recompense, as hating it should be said he owes anything
to his offence; to God (what in him lies) with sighs, tears, vows, and endeavours of amendment.
No heart is more waxen to the impressions of forgiveness, neither are his hands more open to
receive than to give pardon. All the injuries which are offered to him are swallowed up in
his wrongs to his Maker and Redeemer; neither can he call for the arrearages of his farthings,
when he looks upon the millions forgiven him: he feels not what he suffers from men, when he
thinks of what he hath done and should have suffered. He is a thankful herald of the mercies
of his God; which if all the world hear not from his mouth it is no fault of his. Neither did
he so burn with the evil fires or concupiscence as now with the holy flames of zeal to that
glory which he hath blemished; and his eyes are as full of moisture as his heart of heat. The
gates of heaven are not so knocked at by any suitor, whether for frequency or importunity.
You shall find his cheeks furrowed, his knees hard, his lips sealed up, save when he must accuse
himself or glorify God, his eyes humbly dejected, and sometimes you shall take him breaking
of a sigh in the midst, as one that would steal an humiliation unknown, and would be offended
with any part that should not keep his counsel. When he finds his soul oppressed with the heavy
guilt of a sin, he gives it vent through his mouth into the ear of his spiritual physician,
from whom he receives cordials answerable to his complaint. He is a severe exactor of discipline:
first upon himself, on whom he imposes more than one Lent; then upon others, as one that vowed
to be revenged on sin wheresoever he finds it; and though but one hath offended him, yet his
detestation is universal. He is his own taskmaster for devotion; and if Christianity have any
work more difficult or perilous than other, that he enjoins himself, and resolves contentment
even in miscarriage. It is no marvel if the acquaintance of his wilder times know him not,
for he is quite another from himself; and if his mind could have had any intermission of dwelling
within his breast, it could not have known this was the lodging. Nothing but an outside is
the same it was, and that altered more with regeneration than with age. None but he can relish
the promises of the gospel, which he finds so sweet that he complains not, his thirst after
them is unsatiable; and now that he hath found his Saviour, he hugs Him so fast and holds Him
so dear that he feels not when his life is fetched away from him for his martyrdom. The latter
part of his life is so led as if he desired to unlive his youth, and his last testament is
full of restitutions and legacies of piety. In sum, he hath so lived and died as that Satan
hath no such match, sin hath no such enemy, God hath no such servant as he.

HE IS A HAPPY MAN

That hath learned to read himself more than all books, and hath so taken out this lesson that
he can never forget it; that knows the world, and cares not for it; that, after many traverses
of thoughts, is grown to know what he may trust to, and stands now equally armed for all events;
that hath got the mastery at home, so as he can cross his will without a mutiny, and so please
it that he makes it not a wanton; that in earthly things wishes no more than nature, in spiritual
is ever graciously ambitious; that for his condition stands on his own feet, not needing to
lean upon the great, and can so frame his thoughts to his estate that when he hath least he
cannot want, because he is as free from desire as superfluity; that hath seasonably broken
the headstrong restiness of prosperity, and can now manage it at pleasure; upon whom all smaller
crosses light as hailstones upon a roof; and for the greater calamities, he can take them as
tributes of life and tokens of love; and if his ship be tossed, yet he is sure his anchor is
fast. If all the world were his, he could be no other than he is, no whit gladder of himself,
no whit higher in his carriage, because he knows contentment lies not in the things he hath,
but in the mind that values them. The powers of his resolution can either multiply or subtract
at pleasure. He can make his cottage a manor or a palace when he lists, and his home-close
a large dominion, his stained cloth arras, his earth plate, and can see state in the attendance
of one servant, as one that hath learned a man's greatness or baseness is in himself; and in
this he may even contest with the proud, that he thinks his own the best. Or if he must be
outwardly great, he can but turn the other end of the glass, and make his stately manor a low
and straight cottage, and in all his costly furniture he can see not richness but use; he can
see dross in the best metal and earth through the best clothes, and in all his troupe he can
see himself his own servant. He lives quietly at home out of the noise of the world, and loves
to enjoy himself always, and sometimes his friend, and hath as full scope to his thought as
to his eyes. He walks ever even in the midway betwixt hopes and fears, resolved to fear nothing
but God, to hope for nothing but what which he must have. He hath a wise and virtuous mind
in a serviceable body, which that better part affects as a present servant and a future companion,
so cherishing his flesh as one that would scorn to be all flesh. He hath no enemies; not for
that all love him, but because he knows to make a gain of malice. He is not so engaged to any
earthly thing that they two cannot part on even terms; there is neither laughter in their meeting,
nor in their shaking of hands tears. He keeps ever the best company, the God of Spirits and
the spirits of that God, whom he entertains continually in an awful familiarity, not being
hindered either with too much light or with none at all. His conscience and his hand are friends,
and (what devil soever tempt him) will not fall out. That divine part goes ever uprightly and
freely, not stooping under the burden of a willing sin, not fettered with the gyves of unjust
scruples. He would not, if he could, run away from himself or from God; not caring from whom
he lies hid, so he may look these two in the face. Censures and applauses are passengers to
him, not guests; his ear is their thoroughfare, not their harbour; he hath learned to fetch
both his counsel and his sentence from his own breast. He doth not lay weight upon his own
shoulders, as one that loves to torment himself with the honour of much employment; but as
he makes work his game, so doth he not list to make himself work. His strife is ever to redeem
and not to spend time. It is his trade to do good, and to think of it his recreation. He hath
hands enough for himself and others, which are ever stretched forth for beneficence, not for
need. He walks cheerfully in the way that God hath chalked, and never wishes it more wide or
more smooth. Those very temptations whereby he is foiled strengthen him; he comes forth crowned
and triumphing out of the spiritual battles, and those scars that he hath make him beautiful.
His soul is every day dilated to receive that God, in whom he is; and hath attained to love
himself for God, and God for His own sake. His eyes stick so fast in heaven that no earthly
object can remove them; yea, his whole self is there before his time, and sees with Stephen,
and hears with Paul, and enjoys with Lazarus, the glory that he shall have, and takes possession
beforehand of his room amongst the saints; and these heavenly contentments have so taken him
up that now he looks down displeasedly upon the earth as the region of his sorrow and banishment,
yet joying more in hope than troubled with the sense of evils. He holds it no great matter
to live, and his greatest business to die; and is so well acquainted with his last guest that
he fears no unkindness from him: neither makes he any other of dying than of walking home when
he is abroad, or of going to bed when he is weary of the day. He is well provided for both
worlds, and is sure of peace here, of glory hereafter; and therefore hath a light heart and
a cheerful face. All his fellow-creatures rejoice to serve him; his betters, the angels, love
to observe him; God Himself takes pleasure to converse with him, and hath sainted him before
his death, and in his death crowned him.

THE SECOND BOOK.

CHARACTERISMS OF VICES.

THE PROEM.

I have showed you many fair virtues: I speak not for them; if their sight cannot command affection
let them lose it. They shall please yet better after you have troubled your eyes a little with
the view of deformities; and by how much more they please, so much more odious and like themselves
shall these deformities appear. This light contraries give to each other in the midst of their
enmity, that one makes the other seem more good or ill. Perhaps in some of these (which thing
I do at once fear and hate) my style shall seem to some less grave, more satirical: if you
find me, not without cause, jealous, let it please you to impute it to the nature of those
vices which will not be otherwise handled. The fashions of some evils are, besides the odiousness,
ridiculous, which to repeat is to seem bitterly merry. I abhor to make sport with wickedness,
and forbid any laughter here but of disdain. Hypocrisy shall lead this ring worthily, I think,
because both she cometh nearest to virtue and is the worst of vices.

CHARACTER OF THE HYPOCRITE.

An hypocrite is the worst kind of player, by so much as he acts the better part, which hath
always two faces, ofttimes two hearts; that can compose his forehead to sadness and gravity,
while he bids his heart be wanton and careless within, and in the meantime laughs within himself
to think how smoothly he hath cozened the beholder. In whose silent face are written the characters
of religion, which his tongue and gestures pronounce but his hands recant. That hath a clean
face and garment with a foul soul, whose mouth belies his heart, and his fingers belie his
mouth. Walking early up into the city, he turns into the great church, and salutes one of the
pillars on one knee, worshipping that God which at home he cares not for, while his eye is
fixed on some window, on some passenger, and his heart knows not whither his lips go. He rises,
and looking about with admiration, complains on our frozen charity, commends the ancient. At
church he will ever sit where he may be seen best, and in the midst of the sermon pulls out
his tables in haste, as if he feared to lose that note; when he writes either his forgotten
errand or nothing. Then he turns his Bible with a noise to seek an omitted quotation, and folds
the leaf as if he had found it, and asks aloud the name of the preacher, and repeats it, whom
he publicly salutes, thanks, praises, invites, entertains with tedious good counsel, with good
discourse, if it had come from an honester mouth. He can command tears when he speaks of his
youth, indeed because it is past, not because it was sinful; himself is now better, but the
times are worse. All other sins he reckons up with detestation, while he loves and hides his
darling in his bosom. All his speech returns to himself, and every occurrence draws in a story
to his own praise. When he should give, he looks about him and says, "Who sees me?" No alms,
no prayers, fall from him without a witness, belike lest God should deny that He hath received
them; and when he hath done (lest the world should not know it) his own mouth is his trumpet
to proclaim it. With the superfluity of his usury he builds an hospital, and harbours them
whom his extortion hath spoiled; so while he makes many beggars he keeps some. He turneth all
gnats into camels, and cares not to undo the world for a circumstance. Flesh on a Friday is
more abomination to him than his neighbour's bed: he more abhors not to uncover at the name
of Jesus than to swear by the name of God. When a rhymer reads his poem to him he begs a copy,
and persuades the press there is nothing that he dislikes in presence that in absence he censures
not. He comes to the sick-bed of his stepmother, and weeps when he secretly fears her recovery.
He greets his friend in the street with so clear a countenance, so fast a closure, that the
other thinks he reads his heart in his face, and shakes hands with an indefinite invitation
of "When will you come?" and when his back is turned, joys that he is so well rid of a guest;
yet if that guest visit him unfeared, he counterfeits a smiling welcome, and excuses his cheer,
when closely he frowns on his wife for too much. He shows well, and says well, and himself
is the worst thing he hath. In brief, he is the stranger's saint, the neighbour's disease,
the blot of goodness, a rotten stick in a dark night, a poppy in a corn-field, an ill-tempered
candle with a great snuff that in going out smells ill; and an angel abroad, a devil at home,
and worse when an angel than when a devil.

OF THE BUSYBODY.

His estate is too narrow for his mind, and therefore he is fain to make himself room in others'
affairs, yet ever in pretence of love. No news can stir but by his door, neither can he know
that which he must not tell. What every man ventures in Guiana voyage, and what they gained,
he knows to a hair. Whether Holland will have peace he knows, and on what conditions, and with
what success, is familiar to him ere it be concluded. No post can pass him without a question,
and rather than he will lose the news, he rides back with him to apprise him of tidings; and
then to the next man he meets he supplies the wants of his hasty intelligence and makes up
a perfect tale, wherewith he so haunteth the patient auditor, that after many excuses he is
fain to endure rather the censure of his manners in running away than the tediousness of an
impertinent discourse. His speech is oft broken off with a succession of long parentheses,
which he ever vows to fill up ere the conclusion, and perhaps would effect it if the other's
ear were as umveariable as his tongue. If he see but two men talk and read a letter in the
street, he runs to them and asks if he may not be partner of that secret relation; and if they
deny it, he offers to tell, since he may not hear, wonders, and then falls upon the report
of the Scottish mine, or of the great fish taken up at Lynne, or of the freezing of the Thames,
and after many thanks and admissions is hardly entreated silence. He undertakes as much as
he performs little; this man will thrust himself forward to be the guide of the way he knows
not, and calls at his neighbour's window and asks why his servants are not at work. The market
hath no commodity which he prizeth not, and which the next table shall not hear recited. His
tongue, like the tail of Samson's foxes, carries firebrands, and is enough to set the whole
field of the world on a flame. Himself begins table-talk of his neighbour at another's board,
to whom he bears the first news, and adjures him to conceal the reporter, whose choleric answer
he returns to his first host enlarged with a second edition; so as it uses to be done in the
sight of unwilling mastiffs, he claps each on the side apart, and provokes them to an eager
conflict. There can no act pass without his comment, which is ever far-fetched, rash, suspicious,
dilatory. His ears are long and his eyes quick, but most of all to imperfections, which as
he easily sees, so he increases with intermeddling. He harbours another man's servant, and
amidst his entertainment asks what fare is usual at home, what hours are kept, what talk passeth
their meals, what his master's disposition is, what his government, what his guests? and when
he hath by curious inquiries extracted all the juice and spirit of hoped intelligence, turns
him off whence he came, and works on anew. He hates constancy as an earthen dulness, unfit
for men of spirit, and loves to change his work and his place: neither yet can he be so soon
weary of any place as every place is weary of him, for as he sets himself on work, so others
pay him with hatred; and look how many masters he hath, so many enemies: neither is it possible
that any should not hate him but who know him not.

OF THE SUPERSTITIOUS.

Superstition is godless religion, devout impiety. The superstitious is fond in observation,
servile in fear; he worships God but as he lists; he gives God what He asks not more than He
asks, and all but what he should give; and makes more sins than the Ten Commandments. This
man dares not stir forth till his breast be crossed and his face sprinkled: if but an hare
cross him the way, he returns; or if his journey began unawares on the dismal day, or if he
stumble at the threshold. If he see a snake unkilled, he fears a mischief; if the salt fall
towards him, he looks pale and red, and is not quiet till one of the waiters have poured wine
on his lap; and when he sneezeth, thinks them not his friends that uncover not. In the morning
he listens whether the crow crieth even or odd, and by that token presages of the weather.
If he hear but a raven croak from the next roof he makes his will, or if a bittern fly over
his head by night; but if his troubled fancy shall second his thoughts with the dream of a
fair garden, or green rushes, or the salutation of a dead friend, he takes leave of the world
and says he cannot live. He will never set to sea but on a Sunday, neither ever goes without
an Erra Pater in his pocket. Saint Paul's Day and Saint Swithin's with the Twelve are his oracles,
which he dares believe against the almanack. When he lies sick on his deathbed no sin troubles
him so much as that he did once eat flesh on a Friday; no repentance can expiate that, the
rest need none. There is no dream of his without an interpretation, without a prediction; and
if the event answer not his exposition, he expounds it according to the event. Every dark grove
and pictured wall strikes him with an awful but carnal devotion. Old wives and stars are his
counsellors, his night-spell is his guard, and charms his physicians. This man is strangely
credulous, and calls impossible things miraculous. If he hear that some sacred block speaks,
moves, weeps, smiles, his bare feet carry him thither with an offering; and if a danger miss
him in the way, his saint hath the thanks. Some ways he will not go, and some he dares not;
either there are bugs, or he feigneth them; every lantern is a ghost, and every noise is of
chains. He knows not why, but his custom is to go a little about, and to leave the cross still
on the right hand. One event is enough to make a rule; out of these he concludes fashions proper
to himself; and nothing can turn him out of his own course. If he have done his task he is
safe, it matters not with what affection. Finally, if God would let him be the carver of his
own obedience, He could not have a better subject; as he is, He cannot have a worse.

OF THE PROFANE.

The superstitious hath too many gods; the profane man hath none at all, unless perhaps himself
be his own deity, and the world his heaven. To matter of religion his heart is a piece of dead
flesh, without feeling of love, of fear, of care, or of pain from the deaf strokes of a revenging
conscience. Custom of sin hath wrought this senselessness, which now hath so long entertained
that it pleads prescription and knows not to be altered. This is no sudden evil; we are born
sinful, but have made ourselves profane; through many degrees we climb to this height of impiety.
At first he sinned and cared not, now he sinneth and knoweth not. Appetite is his lord, and
reason his servant, and religion his drudge. Sense is the rule of his belief; and if piety
may be an advantage, he can at once counterfeit and deride it. When aught succeedeth to him
he sacrifices to his net, and thanks either his fortune or his wit; and will rather make a
false God than acknowledge the truth; if contrary, he cried out of destiny, and blames him
to whom he will not be beholden. His conscience would fain speak with him, but he will not
hear it; sets the day, but he disappoints it; and when it cries loud for audience, he drowns
the noise with good fellowship. He never names God but in his oaths; never thinks of Him but
in extremity; and then he knows not how to think of Him, because he begins but then. He quarrels
for the hard conditions of his pleasure for his future damnation, and from himself lays all
the fault upon his Maker; and from His decree fetcheth excuses of his wickedness. The inevitable
necessity of God's counsel makes him desperately careless; so with good food he poisons himself.
Goodness is his minstrel; neither is any mirth so cordial to him, as his sport with God's fools.
Every virtue hath his slander, and his jest to laugh it out of fashion; every vice his colour.
His usualest theme is the boast of his young sins, which he can still joy in, though he cannot
commit; and (if it may be) his speech makes him worse than he is. He cannot think of death
with patience, without terror, which he therefore fears worse than hell, because this he is
sure of, the other he but doubts of. He comes to church as to the theatre, saving that not
so willingly, for company, for custom, for recreation, perhaps for sleep, or to feed his eyes
or his ears; as for his soul, he cares no more than if he had none. He loves none but himself,
and that not enough to seek his true good; neither cares he on whom he treads that he may rise.
His life is full of license, and his practice of outrage. He is hated of God as much as he
hateth goodness; and differs little from a devil, but that he hath a body.

OF THE MALCONTENT.

He is neither well full nor fasting; and though he abound with complaints, yet nothing dislikes
him but the present; for what he condemned while it was, once past he magnifies, and strives
to recall it out of the jaws of time. What he hath he seeth not, his eyes are so taken up with
what he wants; and what he sees he cares not for, because he cares so much for that which is
not. When his friend carves him the best morsel, he murmurs that it is an happy feast wherein
each one may cut for himself. When a present is sent him he asks, Is this all? and, What, no
better? and so accepts it, as if he would have his friend know how much he is bound to him
for vouchsafing to receive it. It is hard to entertain him with a proportionable gift. If nothing,
he cries out of unthankfulness; if little, that he is basely regarded; if much, he exclaims
of flattery, and expectation of a large requital. Every blessing hath somewhat to disparage
and distaste it; children bring cares, single life is wild and solitary, eminency is envious,
retiredness obscure, fasting painful, satiety unwieldy, religion nicely severe, liberty is
lawless, wealth burdensome, mediocrity contemptible. Everything faulteth, either in too much
or too little. This man is ever headstrong and self-willed, neither is he always tied to esteem
or pronounce according to reason; some things he must dislike he knows not wherefore, but he
likes them not; and otherwhere, rather than not censure, he will accuse a man of virtue. Everything
he meddleth with he either findeth imperfect or maketh so; neither is there anything that soundeth
so harsh in his ear as the commendation of another; whereto yet perhaps he fashionably and
coldly assenteth, but with such an after-clause of exception as doth more than mar his former
allowance; and if he list not to give a verbal disgrace, yet he shakes his head and smiles,
as if his silence should say, I could and will not. And when himself is praised without excess,
he complains that such imperfect kindness hath not done him right. If but an unseasonable shower
cross his recreation, he is ready to fall out with heaven, and thinks he is wronged if God
will not take his times when to rain, when to shine. He is a slave to envy, and loseth flesh
with fretting--not so much at his own infelicity as at others' good; neither hath he leisure
to joy in his own blessings whilst another prospereth. Fain would he see some mutinies, but
dares not raise them; and suffers his lawless tongue to walk through the dangerous paths of
conceited alterations; but so, as in good manners he had rather thrust every man before him
when it comes to acting. Nothing but fear keeps him from conspiracies, and no man is more cruel
when he is not manacled with danger. He speaks nothing but satires and libels, and lodgeth
no guests in his heart but rebels. The inconstant and he agree well in their felicity, which
both place in change; but herein they differ--the inconstant man affects that which will be,
the malcontent commonly that which was. Finally, he is a querulous cur, whom no horse can pass
by without barking at; yea, in the deep silence of night the very moonshine openeth his clamorous
mouth. He is the wheel of a well-couched firework, that flies out on all sides, not without
scorching itself. Every ear is long ago weary of him, and he is now almost weary of himself.
Give him but a little respite, and he will die alone, of no other death than other's welfare.

OF THE INCONSTANT.

The inconstant man treads upon a moving earth and keeps no pace. His proceedings are ever heady
and peremptory, for he hath not the patience to consult with reason, but determines merely
upon fancy. No man is so hot in the pursuit of what he liketh, no man sooner wearies. He is
fiery in his passions, which yet are not more violent than momentary; it is a wonder if his
love or hatred last so many days as a wonder. His heart is the inn of all good motions, wherein,
if they lodge for a night, it is well; by morning they are gone, and take no leave; and if
they come that way again they are entertained as guests, not as friends. At first, like another
Ecebolius, he loved simple truth; thence, diverting his eyes, he fell in love with idolatry.
Those heathenish shrines had never any more doting and besotted client; and now of late he
is leapt from Rome to Munster, and is grown to giddy Anabaptism. What he will be next as yet
he knoweth not; but ere he hath wintered his opinion it will be manifest. He is good to make
an enemy of, ill for a friend; because, as there is no trust in his affection, so no rancour
in his displeasure. The multitude of his changed purposes brings with it forgetfulness, and
not of others more than of himself. He says, swears, renounces, because what he promised he
meant not long enough to make an impression. Herein alone he is good for a commonwealth, that
he sets many on work with building, ruining, altering, and makes more business than time itself;
neither is he a greater enemy to thrift than to idleness. Propriety is to him enough cause
of dislike; each thing pleases him better that is not his own. Even in the best things long
continuance is a just quarrel; manna itself grows tedious with age, and novelty is the highest
style of commendation to the meanest offers; neither doth he in books and fashions ask, How
good? but, How new? Variety carries him away with delight, and no uniform pleasure can be without
an irksome fulness. He is so transformable into all opinions, manners, qualities, that he seems
rather made immediately of the first matter than of well-tempered elements; and therefore is
in possibility anything or everything, nothing in present substance. Finally, he is servile
in imitation, waxy to persuasions, witty to wrong himself, a guest in his own house, an ape
of others, and, in a word, anything rather than himself.

OF THE FLATTERER.

Flattery is nothing but false friendship, fawning hypocrisy, dishonest civility, base merchandise
of words, a plausible discord of the heart and lips. The flatterer is blear-eyed to ill, and
cannot see vices; and his tongue walks ever in one track of unjust praises, and can no more
tell how to discommend than to speak true. His speeches are full of wondering interjections,
and all his titles are superlative, and both of them seldom ever but in presence. His base
mind is well matched with a mercenary tongue, which is a willing slave to another man's ear;
neither regardeth he how true, but how pleasing. His art is nothing but delightful cozenage,
whose rules are smoothing and guarded with perjury; whose scope is to make men fools in teaching
them to overvalue themselves, and to tickle his friends to death. This man is a porter of all
good tales, and mends them in the carriage; one of Fame's best friends and his own, that helps
to furnish her with those rumours that may advantage himself. Conscience hath no greater adversary,
for when she is about to play her just part of accusation, he stops her mouth with good terms,
and well-near strangleth her with shifts. Like that subtle fish, he turns himself into the
colour of every stone for a booty. In himself he is nothing but what pleaseth his great one,
whose virtues he cannot more extol than imitate his imperfections, that he may think his worst
graceful. Let him say it is hot, he wipes his forehead and unbraceth himself; if cold, he shivers
and calls for a warmer garment. When he walks with his friend he swears to him that no man
else is looked at, no man talked of, and that whomsoever he vouchsafes to look on and nod to
is graced enough; that he knows not his own worth, lest he should be too happy; and when he
tells what others say in his praise, he interrupts himself modestly and dares not speak the
rest; so his concealment is more insinuating than his speech. He hangs upon the lips which
he admireth, as if they could let fall nothing but oracles, and finds occasion to cite some
approved sentence under the name he honoureth; and when aught is nobly spoken, both his hands
are little enough to bless him. Sometimes even in absence he extolleth his patron, where he
may presume of safe conveyance to his ears; and in presence so whispereth his commendation
to a common friend, that it may not be unheard where he meant it. He hath salves for every
sore, to hide them, not to heal them; complexion for every face; sin hath not any more artificial
broker or more impudent bawd. There is no vice that hath not from him his colour, his allurement;
and his best service is either to further guiltiness or smother it. If he grant evil things
inexpedient or crimes errors, he hath yielded much; either thy estate gives privilege of liberty
or thy youth; or if neither, what if it be ill? yet it is pleasant. Honesty to him is nice
singularity, repentance superstitious melancholy, gravity dulness, and all virtue an innocent
conceit of the base-minded.

OF THE SLOTHFUL.

He is a religious man, and wears the time in his cloister, and, as the cloak of his doing nothing,
pleads contemplation; yet is he no whit the leaner for his thoughts, no whit learneder. He
takes no less care how to spend time than others how to gain by the expense; and when business
importunes him, is more troubled to forethink what he must do, than another to effect it. Summer
is out of his favour for nothing but long days that make no haste to their even. He loves still
to have the sun witness of his rising, and lies long, more for lothness to dress him than will
to sleep; and after some streaking and yawning, calls for dinner unwashed, which having digested
with a sleep in his chair, he walks forth to the bench in the market-place, and looks for companions.
Whomsoever he meets he stays with idle questions, and lingering discourse; how the days are
lengthened, how kindly the weather is, how false the clock, how forward the spring, and ends
ever with, What shall we do? It pleases him no less to hinder others than not to work himself.
When all the people are gone from church, he is left sleeping in his seat alone. He enters
bonds, and forfeits them by forgetting the day; and asks his neighbour when his own field was
fallowed, whether the next piece of ground belong not to himself. His care is either none or
too late. When winter is come, after some sharp visitations, he looks on his pile of wood,
and asks how much was cropped the last spring. Necessity drives him to every action, and what
he cannot avoid he will yet defer. Every change troubles him, although to the better, and his
dulness counterfeits a kind of contentment. When he is warned on a jury, he had rather pay
the mulct than appear. All but that which Nature will not permit he doth by a deputy, and counts
it troublesome to do nothing, but to do anything yet more. He is witty in nothing but framing
excuses to sit still, which if the occasion yield not he coineth with ease. There is no work
that is not either dangerous or thankless, and whereof he foresees not the inconvenience and
gainlessness before he enters; which if it be verified in event, his next idleness hath found
a reason to patronize it. He had rather freeze than fetch wood, and chooses rather to steal
than work; to beg than take pains to steal, and in many things to want than beg. He is so loth
to leave his neighbour's fire, that he is fain to walk home in the dark; and if he be not looked
to, wears out the night in the chimney-corner, or if not that, lies down in his clothes, to
save two labours. He eats and prays himself asleep, and dreams of no other torment but work.
This man is a standing pool, and cannot choose but gather corruption. He is descried amongst
a thousand neighbours by a dry and nasty hand, that still savours of the sheet, a beard uncut,
unkempt, an eye and ear yellow with their excretions, a coat shaken on, ragged, unbrushed,
by linen and face striving whether shall excel in uncleanness. For body, he hath a swollen
leg, a dusky and swinish eye, a blown cheek, a drawling tongue, an heavy foot, and is nothing
but a colder earth moulded with standing water. To conclude, is a man in nothing but in speech
and shape.

OF THE COVETOUS.

He is a servant to himself, yea, to his servant; and doth base homage to that which should
be the worst drudge. A lifeless piece of earth is his master, yea his god, which he shrines
in his coffer, and to which he sacrifices his heart. Every face of his coin is a new image,
which he adores with the highest veneration; yet takes upon him to be protector of that he
worshippeth, which he fears to keep and abhors to lose, not daring to trust either any other
god or his own. Like a true chemist, he turns everything into silver, both what he should eat,
and what he should wear; and that he keeps to look on, not to use. When he returns from his
field, he asks, not without much rage, what became of the loose crust in his cupboard, and
who hath rioted among his leeks. He never eats good meal but on his neighbour's trencher, and
there he makes amends to his complaining stomach for his former and future fasts. He bids his
neighbours to dinner, and when they have done, sends in a trencher for the shot. Once in a
year, perhaps, he gives himself leave to feast, and for the time thinks no man more lavish;
wherein he lists not to fetch his dishes from far, nor will be beholden to the shambles; his
own provision shall furnish his board with an insensible cost, and when his guests are parted,
talks how much every man devoured, and how many cups were emptied, and feeds his family with
the mouldy remnants a month after. If his servant break but an earthen dish for want of light,
he abates it out of his quarter's wages. He chips his bread, and sends it back to exchange
for staler. He lets money, and sells time for a price, and will not be importuned either to
prevent or defer his day; and in the meantime looks for secret gratuities, besides the main
interest, which he sells and returns into the stock. He breeds of money to the third generation,
neither hath it sooner any being, than he sets it to beget more. In all things he affects secrecy
and propriety; he grudgeth his neighbour the water of his well, and next to stealing he hates
borrowing. In his short and unquiet sleeps he dreams of thieves, and runs to the door and names
more men than he hath. The least sheaf he ever culls out for tithe, and to rob God holds it
the best pastime, the clearest gain. This man cries out above others of the prodigality of
our times, and tells of the thrift of our forefathers: how that great prince thought himself
royally attired, when he bestowed thirteen shillings and fourpence on half a suit. How one
wedding gown served our grandmothers till they exchanged it for a winding-sheet; and praises
plainness, not for less sin, but for less cost. For himself, he is still known by his forefather's
coat, which he means with his blessing to bequeath to the many descents of his heirs. He neither
would be poor, nor be accounted rich. No man complains so much of want, to avoid a subsidy;
no man is so importunate in begging, so cruel in exaction; and when he most complains of want,
he fears that which he complains to have. No way is indirect to wealth, whether of fraud or
violence. Gain is his godliness, which if conscience go about to prejudice, and grow troublesome
by exclaiming against, he is condemned for a common barretor. Like another Ahab, he is sick
of the next field, and thinks he is ill-seated, while he dwells by neighbours. Shortly, his
neighbours do not much more hate him, than he himself. He cares not (for no great advantage)
to lose his friend, pine his body, damn his soul; and would despatch himself when corn falls,
but that he is loth to cast away money on a cord.

OF THE VAINGLORIOUS.

All his humour rises up into the froth of ostentation, which if it once settle falls down into
a narrow room. If the excess be in the understanding part, all his wit is in print; the press
hath left his head empty, yea, not only what he had, but what he could borrow without leave.
If his glory be in his devotion, he gives not an alms but on record; and if he have once done
well, God hears of it often, for upon every unkindness he is ready to upbraid Him with merits.
Over and above his own discharge, he hath some satisfactions to spare for the common treasure.
He can fulfil the law with ease, and earn God with superfluity. If he hath bestowed but a little
sum in the glazing, paving, parieting of God's house, you shall find it in the church window.
Or if a more gallant humour possess him, he wears all his land on his back, and walking high,
looks over his left shoulder, to see if the point of his rapier follow him with a grace. He
is proud of another man's horse, and well mounted, thinks every man wrongs him that looks not
at him. A bare head in the street doth him more good than a meal's meat. He swears big at an
ordinary, and talks of the court with a sharp accent; neither vouchsafes to name any not honourable,
nor those without some term of familiarity, and likes well to see the hearer look upon him
amazedly, as if he said, How happy is this man that is so great with great ones! Under pretence
of seeking for a scroll of news, he draws out an handful of letters endorsed with his own style
to the height, and half reading every title, passes over the latter part with a murmur, not
without signifying what lord sent this, what great lady the other, and for what suits; the
last paper (as it happens) is his news from his honourable friend in the French court. In the
midst of dinner, his lackey comes sweating in with a sealed note from his creditor, who now
threatens a speedy arrest, and whispers the ill news in his master's ear, when he aloud names
a counsellor of state, and professes to know the employment. The same messenger he calls with
an imperious nod, and after expostulation, where he hath left his fellows, in his ear, sends
him for some new spur-leathers or stockings by this time footed; and when he is gone half the
room, recalls him, and sayeth aloud, It is no matter, let the greater bag alone till I come.
And yet again calling him closer, whispers (so that all the table may hear), that if his crimson
suit be ready against the day, the rest need no haste. He picks his teeth when his stomach
is empty, and calls for pheasants at a common inn. You shall find him prizing the richest jewels
and fairest horses, when his purse yields not money enough for earnest. He thrusts himself
into the press before some great ladies, and loves to be seen near the head of a great train.
His talk is how many mourners he furnished with gowns at his father's funeral, how many messes,
how rich his coat is, and how ancient, how great his alliance; what challenges he hath made
and answered; what exploits he did at Calais or Newport; and when he hath commended others'
buildings, furnitures, suits, compares them with his own. When he hath undertaken to be the
broker for some rich diamond, he wears it, and pulling off his glove to stroke up his hair,
thinks no eye should have any other object. Entertaining his friend, he chides his cook for
no better cheer, and names the dishes he meant and wants. To conclude, he is ever on the stage,
and acts still a glorious part abroad, when no man carries a baser heart, no man is more sordid
and careless at home. He is a Spanish soldier on an Italian theatre, a bladder full of wind,
a skinful of words, a fool's wonder and a wise man's fool.

OF THE PRESUMPTUOUS.

Presumption is nothing but hope out of his wits, an high house upon weak pillars. The presumptuous
man loves to attempt great things, only because they are hard and rare. His actions are bold
and venturous, and more full of hazard than use. He hoisteth sail in a tempest, and sayeth
never any of his ancestors were drowned. He goes into an infected house, and says the plague
dares not seize on noble blood. He runs on high battlements, gallops down steep hills, rides
over narrow bridges, walks on weak ice, and never thinks, What if I fall? but, What if I run
over and fall not? He is a confident alchemist, and braggeth that the womb of his furnace hath
conceived a burden that will do all the world good; which yet he desires secretly borne, for
fear of his own bondage. In the meantime his glass breaks, yet he upon better luting lays wagers
of the success, and promiseth wedges beforehand to his friend. He saith, I will sin, and be
sorry, and escape; either God will not see, or not be angry, or not punish it, or remit the
measure. If I do well, He is just to reward; if ill, He is merciful to forgive. Thus his praises
wrong God no less than his offence, and hurt himself no less than they wrong God. Any pattern
is enough to encourage him. Show him the way where any foot hath trod, he dare follow, although
he see no steps returning; what if a thousand have attempted, and miscarried, if but one hath
prevailed it sufficeth. He suggests to himself false hopes of never too late, as if he could
command either time or repentance, and dare defer the expectation of mercy, till betwixt the
bridge and the water. Give him but where to set his foot, and he will remove the earth. He
foreknows the mutations of states, the events of war, the temper of the seasons; either his
old prophecy tells it him, or his stars. Yea, he is no stranger to the records of God's secret
counsel, but he turns them over, and copies them out at pleasure. I know not whether in all
his enterprises he show less fear or wisdom; no man promises himself more, no man more believes
himself. I will go and sell, and return and purchase, and spend and leave my sons such estates:
all which, if it succeed, he thanks himself; if not, he blames not himself. His purposes are
measured, not by his ability, but his will; and his actions by his purposes. Lastly, he is
ever credulous in assent, rash in undertaking, peremptory in resolving, witless in proceeding,
and in his ending miserable, which is never other than either the laughter of the wise or the
pity of fools.

OF THE DISTRUSTFUL.

The distrustful man hath his heart in his eyes or in his hand; nothing is sure to him but what
he sees, what he handles. He is either very simple or very false, and therefore believes not
others, because he knows how little himself is worthy of belief. In spiritual things, either
God must leave a pawn with him or seek some other creditor. All absent things and unusual have
no other but a conditional entertainment; they are strange, if true. If he see two neighbours
whisper in his presence, he bids them speak out, and charges them to say no more than they
can justify. When he hath committed a message to his servant, he sends a second after him to
listen how it is delivered. He is his own secretary, and of his own counsel for what he hath,
for what he purposeth. And when he tells over his bags, looks through the keyhole to see if
he have any hidden witness, and asks aloud, Who is there? when no man hears him. He borrows
money when he needs not, for fear lest others should borrow of him. He is ever timorous and
cowardly, and asks every man's errand at the door ere he opens. After his first sleep he starts
up and asks if the furthest gate were barred, and out of a fearful sweat calls up his servant
and bolts the door after him, and then studies whether it were better to lie still and believe,
or rise and see. Neither is his heart fuller of fears than his head of strange projects and
far-fetched constructions. What means the state, think you, in such an action, and whither
tends this course? Learn of me (if you know not) the ways of deep policies are secret, and
full of unknown windings; that is their act, this will be their issue: so casting beyond the
moon, he makes wise and just proceedings suspected. In all his predictions and imaginations
he ever lights upon the worst; not what is most likely will fall out, but what is most ill.
There is nothing that he takes not with the left hand; no text which his gloss corrupts not.
Words, oaths, parchments, seals, are but broken reeds; these shall never deceive him, he loves
no payments but real. If but one in an age have miscarried by a rare casualty, he misdoubts
the same event. If but a tile fallen from an high roof have brained a passenger, or the breaking
of a coach-wheel have endangered the burden, he swears he will keep home, or take him to his
horse. He dares not come to church for fear of the crowd, nor spare the Sabbath's labour for
fear of the want, nor come near the Parliament house, because it should have been blown up.
What might have been affects him as much as what will be. Argue, vow, protest, swear, he hears
thee, and believes himself. He is a sceptic, and dare hardly give credit to his senses, which
he hath often arraigned of false intelligence. He so lives, as if he thought all the world
were thieves, and were not sure whether himself were one. He is uncharitable in his censures,
unquiet in his fears, bad enough always, but in his own opinion much worse than he is.

OF THE AMBITIOUS.

Ambition is a proud covetousness, a dry thirst of honour, the longing disease of reason, an
aspiring and gallant madness. The ambitious climbs up high and perilous stairs, and never cares
how to come down; the desire of rising hath swallowed up his fear of a fall. Having once cleaved
like a burr to some great man's coat, he resolves not to be shaken off with any small indignities,
and, finding his hold thoroughly fast, casts how to insinuate yet nearer. And therefore he
is busy and servile in his endeavours to please, and all his officious respects turn home to
himself. He can be at once a slave to command, an intelligencer to inform, a parasite to soothe
and flatter, a champion to defend, an executioner to revenge anything for an advantage of favour.
He hath projected a plot to rise, and woe be to the friend that stands in his way. He still
haunteth the court, and his unquiet spirit haunteth him, which, having fetched him from the
secure peace of his country rest, sets him new and impossible tasks, and, after many disappointments,
encourages him to try the same sea in spite of his shipwrecks, and promise better success.
A small hope gives him heart against great difficulties, and draws on new expense, new servility,
persuading him like foolish boys to shoot away a second shaft, that he may find the first.
He yieldeth, and now secure of the issue, applauds himself in that honour, which he still affecteth,
still misseth; and, for the last of all trials, will rather bribe for a troublesome preferment
than return void of a title. But now, when he finds himself desperately crossed, and at once
spoiled both of advancement and hope, both of fruition and possibility, all his desire is turned
into rage, his thirst is now only of revenge, his tongue sounds of nothing but detraction and
slander. Now the place he fought for is base, his rival unworthy, his adversary injurious,
officers corrupt, court infectious; and how well is he that may be his own man, his own master,
that may live safely in a mean distance, at pleasure, free from starving, free from burning?
But if his designs speed well, ere he be warm in that feat, his mind is possessed of an higher.
What he hath is but a degree to what he would have. Now he scorneth what he formerly aspired
to. His success doth not give him so much contentment as provocation; neither can he be at
rest so long as he hath one, either to overlook, or to match, or to emulate him. When his country
friend comes to visit him, he carries him up to the awful presence, and now in his sight, crowding
nearer to the chair of state, desires to be looked on, desires to be spoken to by the greatest,
and studies how to offer an occasion, lest he should seem unknown, unregarded; and if any gesture
of the least grace fall happily upon him, he looks back upon his friend, lest he should carelessly
let it pass, without a note; and what he wanteth in sense he supplies in history. His disposition
is never but shamefully unthankful, for unless he have all he hath nothing. It must be a large
draught, whereof he will not say that those few drops do not slake but inflame him. So still
he thinks himself the worse for small favours. His wit so contrives the likely plots of his
promotion, as if he would steal it away without God's knowledge, besides His will. Neither
doth he ever look up, and consult in his forecasts with the supreme Moderator of all things,
as one that thinks honour is ruled by fortune, and that heaven meddleth not with the disposing
of these earthly lots; and therefore it is just with that wise God to defeat his fairest hopes,
and to bring him to a loss in the hottest of his chase, and to cause honour to fly away so
much the faster, by how much it is more eagerly pursued. Finally, he is an importunate suitor,
a corrupt client, a violent undertaker, a smooth factor, but untrusty, a restless master of
his own, a bladder puffed up with the wind of hope and self-love. He is in the common body
as a mole in the earth, ever unquietly casting; and, in one word, is nothing but a confused
heap of envy, pride, covetousness.

OF THE UNTHRIFT.

He ranges beyond his pale, and lives without compass. His expense is measured, not by ability,
but will. His pleasures are immoderate, and not honest. A wanton eye, a liquorish tongue, a
gamesome hand, have impoverished him. The vulgar sort call him bountiful, and applaud him when
he spends; and recompense him with wishes when he gives, with pity when he wants. Neither can
it be denied that he raught true liberality, but overwent it. No man could have lived more
laudably, if, when he was at the best, he had stayed there. While he is present, none of the
wealthier guests may pay aught to the shot without much vehemence, without danger of unkindness.
Use hath made it unpleasant to him not to spend. He is in all things more ambitious of the
title of good fellowship than of wisdom. When he looks into the wealthy chest of his father,
his conceit suggests that it cannot be emptied; and while he takes out some deal every day,
he perceives not any diminution; and when the heap is sensibly abated, yet still flatters himself
with enough. One hand cozens the other, and the belly deceives both. He doth not so much bestow
benefits as scatter them. True merit doth not carry them, but smoothness of adulation. His
senses are too much his guides and his purveyors, and appetite is his steward. He is an impotent
servant to his lusts, and knows not to govern either his mind or his purse. Improvidence is
ever the companion of unthriftiness. This man cannot look beyond the present, and neither thinks
nor cares what shall be, much less suspects what may be; and while he lavishes out his substance
in superfluities, thinks he only knows what the world is worth, and that others overprize it.
He feels poverty before he sees it, never complains till he be pinched with wants; never spares
till the bottom, when it is too late either to spend or recover. He is every man's friend save
his own, and then wrongs himself most when he courteth himself with most kindness. He vies
time with the slothful, and it is a hard match whether chases away good hours to worse purpose,
the one by doing nothing, or the other by idle pastime. He hath so dilated himself with the
beams of prosperity that he lies open to all dangers, and cannot gather up himself, on just
warning, to avoid a mischief. He were good for an almoner, ill for a steward. Finally, he is
the living tomb of his forefathers, of his posterity; and when he hath swallowed both, is more
empty than before he devoured them.

OF THE ENVIOUS.

He feeds on others' evils, and hath no disease but his neighbour's welfare. Whatsoever God
do for him, he cannot be happy with company; and if he were put to choose whether he would
rather have equals in a common felicity, or superiors in misery, he would demur upon the election.
His eye casts out too much, and never returns home, but to make comparisons with another's
good. He is an ill prizer of foreign commodity; worse of his own, for that he rates too high,
this under value. You shall have him ever inquiring into the estates of his equals and betters,
wherein he is not more desirous to hear all than loth to hear anything over good; and if just
report relate aught better than he would, he redoubles the question, as being hard to believe
what he likes not, and hopes yet, if that be averred again to his grief, that there is somewhat
concealed in the relation, which, if it were known, would argue the commended party miserable,
and blemish him with secret shame. He is ready to quarrel with God, because the next field
is fairer grown, and angrily calculates his cost, and time, and tillage. Whom he dares not
openly backbite, nor wound with a direct censure, he strikes smoothly with an over cold praise;
and when he sees that he must either maliciously impugn the just praise of another (which were
unsafe), or approve it by assent, he yieldeth; but shows withal that his means were such, both
by nature and education, that he could not, without much neglect, be less commendable. So his
happiness shall be made the colour of detraction. When an wholesome law is propounded, he crosseth
it either by open or close opposition, not for any incommodity or inexpedience, but because
it proceeded from any mouth besides his own. And it must be a cause rarely plausible that will
not admit some probable contradiction. When his equal should rise to honour, he strives against
it unseen, and rather with much cost suborneth great adversaries; and when he sees his resistance
vain, he can give an hollow gratulation in presence, but in secret disparages that advancement.
Either the man is unfit for the place, or the place for the man; or if fit, yet less gainful,
or more common than opinion; whereto he adds that himself might have had the same dignity upon
better terms, and refused it. He is witty in devising suggestions to bring his rival out of
love into suspicion. If he be courteous, he is seditiously popular; if bountiful, he binds
over his clients to a faction; if successful in war, he is dangerous in peace; if wealthy,
he lays up for a day; if powerful, nothing wants but opportunity of rebellion. His submission
is ambitious hypocrisy; his religion, politic insinuation; no action is safe from a jealous
construction. When he receives a good report of him whom he emulates, he saith, "Fame is partial,
and is wont to blanche mischiefs;" and pleaseth himself with hope to find it worse; and if
ill-will have dispersed any more spiteful narration, he lays hold on that, against all witnesses,
and broacheth that rumour for truest because worst; and when he sees him perfectly miserable,
he can at once pity him, and rejoice. What himself cannot do, others shall not; he hath gained
well if he have hindered the success of what he would have done, and could not. He conceals
his best skill, not so as it may not be known that he knows it, but so as it may not be learned,
because he would have the world miss him. He attained to a foreign medicine by the secret legacy
of a dying empiric, whereof he will leave no heir lest the praise shall be divided. Finally,
he is an enemy to God's favours, if they fall beside himself; the best nurse of ill-fame, a
man of the worst diet, for he consumes himself, and delights in pining; a thorn-hedge covered
with nettles, a peevish interpreter of good things, and no other than a lean and pale carcase
quickened with a fiend. He had published two years before a play called "Cinthia's Revenge,
or Maenander's Extasie," which Langbaine described as one of the longest he had ever read,
and the most tedious. Somebody seems to have attacked him and his Characters.

JOHN EARLE

Is the next of our Character writers. His "Microcosmography, or a Piece of the World discovered,
in Essays and Characters" was first printed in 1628. John Earle was born in the city of York,
at the beginning of the seventeenth century, probably in the year 1601. His father, who was
Registrar of the Archbishop's Court, sent him to Oxford in 1619, and he was said to be eighteen
years old when he matriculated, that year, as a commoner at Christchurch. He graduated as Master
of Arts in 1624. He was a Fellow of Merton, and wrote in his younger days several occasional
poems that won credit before he published anonymously, still as an Oxford man, when he was
about twenty-seven years old, his famous Characters. But he remembered York when adding to
their title that they were "newly composed for the northern part of this Kingdom." This first
edition contained fifty-four characters, which precede the others in the following collection.
In the next year, 1629, the book reached a fifth edition, printed for Robert Allot, in which
the number of the characters was increased to seventy-six. Two more characters--a Herald, and
a Suspicious or Jealous Man--were added in the sixth edition, which was printed for Allot in
1633. The seventh edition was printed for Andrew Coolie in 1638, the eighth in 1650. Other
editions followed in 1669, 1676, 1732, and at Salisbury in 1786. In 1811 the little book was
edited carefully by Dr. Philip Bliss, and it was edited again by Professor Edward Arber in
1868, in his valuable series of English Reprints.

John Earle, after the production of his "Microcosmography," wrote in April 1630 a short poem
upon the death of William, third Earl of Pembroke, son of Sidney's sister. The third Earl's
younger brother Philip succeeded as fourth Earl, and was Chancellor of the University of Oxford.
He was then, or thereafter became, Earle's patron, and made him his chaplain. About the same
time, in 1631, Earle acted as proctor of the University. In 1639 the Earl of Pembroke presented
John Earle to the living of Bishopston in Wiltshire, as successor to Chillingworth. Pembroke
being Lord Chamberlain was entitled also to a residence at Court for his chaplain, and thus
Earle was brought under the immediate notice of Charles I., who appointed him to be his own
chaplain, and made him tutor to Prince Charles in 1641, when Dr. Brian Duppa, the preceding
tutor, had been made Bishop of Salisbury. In 1642 Earle proceeded to the degree of D.D. In
1643 he was elected Chancellor of the Cathedral at Salisbury, but he was presently deprived
by the Parliament of that office, and of his living at Bishopston. He then lived in retirement
abroad, made a translation into Latin of Hooker's "Ecclesiastical Polity" which his servants
negligently used, after his death, as waste paper, and of the "Eikon Basilike" which was published
in 1649. After the Restoration, Dr. Earle was made Dean of Westminster; then, in 1662, Bishop
of Worcester. He was translated to Salisbury in 1663, died in November 1665, and was buried
near the altar in Merton College Church.

Earle was a man so gentle and liberal, that while Clarendon described him as "among the few
excellent men who never had and never could have an enemy," Baxter wrote in the margin of a
kindly letter from him, "O, that they were all such!" and Calamy described him as "a man that
could do good against evil, forgive much out of a charitable heart." The Parliament, even just
before depriving him as a malignant, had put him to the trouble of declining its nomination
as one of the Westminster Assembly of Divines. As a Bishop in the early days of Charles the
Second he did all he could to oppose the persecuting spirit of the first Conventicle Act and
of the Five Mile Act.

Dr. Philip Bliss, who died in 1857, after a life marked by many services to English Literature,
chose Bishop Earle's "Characters" for one of his earlier studies, published in 1811, when his
own age was twenty-four. His book[2] included an account of Bishop Earle himself, a list of
his writings, publication for the first time of some of his early verses, his correspondence
with Baxter, and a Chronological List of Books of Characters from 1567 to 1700, which was the
first contribution to a study of this feature in our Seventeenth Century Literature. Bliss
took his text of Earle from the edition of 1732, collated with the first impression in 1628.
As the Characters which now follow are given with Bliss's text and notes, I add what the editor
himself says of his method. Noblemen use him for a director of their stomach, and the ladies
for wantonness,[16] especially if he be a proper man.

AN ANTIQUARY. His tenet is always singular and aloof from the vulgar as he can, from which
you must not hope to wrest him. He has learnt all that can here be taught him, and comes now
to heaven to see more. She is more fiery against the maypole than her husband, and thinks she
might do a Phineas' act to break the pate of the fiddler. She is an everlasting argument, but
I am weary of her.

A PRETENDER TO LEARNING

Is one that would make all others more fools than himself, for though he knew nothing, he would
not have the world know so much.

A SHOPKEEPER.

A BLUNT MAN

Is one whose wit is better pointed than his behaviour, and that coarse and unpolished, not
out of ignorance so much as humour. He is the creditors' hawk, wherewith they seize upon flying
birds, and fetch them again in his talons. He is a man of most unfortunate voyages, and no
gallant walks the streets to less purpose. Indeed he dares not enter on a serious thought,
or if he do, it is such melancholy that it sends him to be drunk again.

A PRISON

Is the grave of the living,[78] where they are shut up from the world and their friends; and
the worms that gnaw upon them their own thoughts and the jailor. Your mere sour look affrights
him, and makes him doubt his cashiering. Their disease only converts them, and that only when
it kills them.

NICHOLAS BRETON

Published in 1615 "Characters upon Essays, Moral and Divine" and in 1616 a set of Characters
called "The Good and the Bad." He was of a good Essex family, second son of William Breton
of Redcross Street, in the parish of St. Giles without Cripplegate. His father was well-to-do,
and died in January 1559 (new style) when Nicholas was a boy. His mother took for second husband
George Gascoigne the poet. Only a chance note in a diary informs us that Nicholas Breton was
once of Oriel College, Oxford. In 1577, when his stepfather Gascoigne died, Breton was living
in London, and he then published the first of his many books. He married Ann Sutton in the
church of St. Giles, Cripplegate, on the 14th of January 1593 (new style), had a son Henry,
born in 1603, a son Edward in 1606, and a daughter Matilda in 1607, who died in her nineteenth
year. He was from 1577 onward an active writer both of prose and verse, and a poet of real
mark in the days of Elizabeth and James the First, though it was left to Dr. A. B. Grosart
to be, in 1875-79, the first editor of his collected works in an edition limited to a hundred
copies. In recognition of the kinship between Bacon's Essays and Character writings, they were
dedicated

    To the Honourable, and my much worthy honoured,
truly learned, and Judicious Knight, SIR FRANCIS BACON,
        his Maties. Attorney General,
    Increase of honour, health, and eternal happiness.

Worthy knight, I have read of many essays and a kind of charactering of them, by such, as when
I looked unto the form or nature of their writing I have been of the conceit that they were
but imitators of your breaking the ice to their inventions, which, how short they fall of your
worth, I had rather think than speak, though truth need not blush at her blame. Now, for myself,
unworthy to touch near the rock of those diamonds, or to speak in their praise, who so far
exceed the power of my capacity, vouchsafe me leave yet, I beseech you, among those apes that
would counterfeit the actions of men, to play the like part with learning, and as a monkey
that would make a face like a man and cannot, so to write like a scholar and am not; and thus
not daring to adventure the print under your patronage, without your favourable allowance in
the devoted service of my bounden duty, I leave these poor travails of my spirit to the perusing
of your pleasing leisure, with the further fruits of my humble affection, to the happy employment
of your honourable pleasure.--At your service in all humbleness,

NICH. BRETON.

Breton prefixed also this address--

TO THE READER.

Read what you list, and understand what you can. Characters are not every man's construction,
though they be writ in our mother tongue; and what I have written, being of no other nature,
if they fit not your humour they may please a better. I make no comparison, because I know
you not, but if you will vouchsafe to look into them, it may be you may find something in them;
their natures are diverse, as you may see, if your eyes be open, and if you can make use of
them to good purpose, your wits may prove the better. In brief, fearing the fool will be put
upon me for being too busy with matters too far above my understanding, I will leave my imperfection
to pardon or correction, and my labour to their liking that will not think ill of a well-meaning,
and so rest,--Your well-willing friend,

N.B.

CHARACTERS UPON ESSAYS,

MORAL AND DIVINE.

BY NICHOLAS BRETON.

WISDOM.

Wisdom is a working grace in the souls of the elect, by whom the spirit is made capable of
those secrets that neither nature nor reason is able to comprehend; who, by a powerful virtue
she hath from the Divine Essence, worketh in all things according to the will of the Almighty,
and, being before beginning, shall exceed time in an eternal proceeding. She is a light in
the intellectual part, by which reason is led to direct the senses in their due course, and
nature is preserved from subjecting herself to imperfection. In the Creation she was of counsel
with the Trinity in the pleasing of the Deity; in the Redemption the inventor of mercy for
the preservation of the elect; and in the Glorification the treasurer of life for the reward
of the faithful, who, having committed to her care the carriage of the whole motion, finding
the disposition of earth in all the children of her womb, by such a measure as she finds fitting
their quality, she gives them either the grace of nature or the glory of reason. While being
the mother of the graces, she gives them that holy instruction that, in the knowledge of the
highest love, through the paths of virtue, makes a passage to heaven. Learning hath from her
that knowledge without the which all knowledge is mere ignorance, while only in the grace of
truth is seen the glory of understanding. Knowledge hath from her that learning whereby she
is taught the direction of her love in the way of life. Understanding hath from her that knowledge
that keeps conceit always in the spirit's comfort; and judgment from understanding, that rule
of justice that by the even weight of impartiality shows the hand of Heaven in the heart of
humanity. In the heavens she keeps the angels in their orders, teacheth them the natures of
their offices, and employs them in the service of their Creator. In the firmament she walks
among the stars, sets and keeps them in their places, courses, and operations, at her pleasure.
She eclipseth the light, and in a moment leaves not a cloud in the sky. In her thunders and
lightnings she shows the terror of the Highest wrath, and in her temperate calms, the patience
of His mercy. In her frosty winters she shows the weakness of nature, and in her sunny springs
the recovery of her health. In the lovers of this world lives no part of her pureness, but
with her beloved she makes a heaven upon earth. In the king she shows grace, in his council
her care, and in his state her strength. In the soldier she shows virtue the truest valour;
in the lawyer, truth the honour of his plea; in the merchant, conscience the wealth of his
soul; and in the churchman, charity the true fruit of his devotion. She lives in the world
but not the world's love, for the world's unworthiness is not capable of her worth. She receiveth
Mammon as a gift from his Maker, and makes him serve her use to His glory. She gives honour,
grace in bounty, and manageth wit by the care of discretion. She shows the necessity of difference,
and wherein is the happiness of unity. She puts her labour to providence, her hope to patience,
her life to her love, and her love to her Lord; with whom, as chief secretary of His secrets,
she writes His will to the world, and as high steward of His courts she keeps account of all
His tenants. In sum, so great is her grace in the heavens as gives her glory above the earth,
and so infinite are her excellencies in all the course of her action; and so glorious are the
notes of her incomprehensible nature, that I will thus only conclude, far short of her commendation:--She
is God's love, and His angels' light, His servants' grace, and His beloved's glory.

LEARNING.

Learning is the life of reason and the light of nature, where time, order, and measure square
out the true course of knowledge; where discretion in the temper of passion brings experience
to the best fruit of affection; while both the Theory and Practice labour in the life of judgment,
till the perfection of art show the honour of understanding. She is the key of knowledge that
unlocketh the cabinet of conceit, wherein are laid up the labours of virtue for the use of
the scholars of wisdom; where every gracious spirit may find matter enough worthy of the record
of the best memory. She is the nurse of nature, with that milk of reason that would make a
child of grace never lie from the dug. She is the schoolmistress of wit and the gentle governor
of will, when the delight of understanding gives the comfort of study. She is unpleasing to
none that knows her, and unprofitable to none that loves her. She fears not to wet her feet,
to wade through the waters of comfort, but comes not near the seas of iniquity, where folly
drowns affection in the delight of vanity. She opens her treasures to the travellers in virtue,
but keeps them close from the eyes of idleness. She makes the king gracious and his council
judicious, his clergy devout and his kingdom prosperous. She gives honour to virtue, grace
to honour, reward to labour, and love to truth. She is the messenger of wisdom to the minds
of the virtuous, and the way to honour in the spirits of the gracious. She is the storehouse
of understanding, where the affection of grace cannot want instruction of goodness, while,
in the rules of her directions, reason is never out of square. She is the exercise of wit in
the application of knowledge, and the preserver of the understanding in the practice of memory.
In brief, she makes age honourable and youth admirable, the virtuous wise and the wise gracious.
Her libraries are infinite, her lessons without number, her instruction without comparison,
and her scholars without equality. In brief, finding it a labyrinth to go through the grounds
of her praise, let this suffice, that in all ages she hath been and ever will be the darling
of wisdom, the delight of wit, the study of virtue, and the stay of knowledge.

KNOWLEDGE.

Knowledge is a collection of understanding gathered in the grounds of learning by the instruction
of wisdom. She is the exercise of memory in the actions of the mind, and the employer of the
senses in the will of the spirit: she is the notary of time and the trier of truth, and the
labour of the spirit in the love of virtue: she is the pleasure of wit and the paradise of
reason, where conceit gathereth the sweet of understanding. She is the king's counsellor and
the council's grace, youth's guard and age's glory. It is free from doubts and fears no danger,
while the care of Providence cuts off the cause of repentance. She is the enemy of idleness
and the maintainer of labour in the care of credit and pleasure of profit: she needs no advice
in the resolution of action, while experience in observation finds perfection infallible. It
clears errors and cannot be deceived, corrects impurity and will not be corrupted. She hath
a wide ear and a close mouth, a pure eye and a perfect heart. It is begotten by grace, bred
by virtue, brought up by learning, and maintained by love. She converseth with the best capacities
and communicates with the soundest judgments, dwells with the divinest natures and loves the
most patient dispositions. Her hope is a kind of assurance, her faith a continual expectation,
her love an apprehension of joy, and her life the light of eternity. Her labours are infinite,
her ways are unsearchable, her graces incomparable, and her excellencies inexplicable; and
therefore, being so little acquainted with her worth as makes me blush at my unworthiness to
speak in the least of her praise, I will only leave her advancement to virtue, her honour to
wisdom, her grace to truth, and to eternity her glory.

PRACTICE.

Practice is the motion of the spirit, where the senses are all set to work in their natures,
where, in the fittest employment of time, reason maketh the best use of understanding. She
is the continuance of knowledge in the ease of memory, and the honour of resolution in the
effect of judgment. She plants the spring and reaps the harvest, makes labour sweet and patience
comfortable. She hath a foot on the earth but an eye at heaven, where the prayer of faith finds
the felicity of the soul. In the fruit of charity she shows the nature of devotion, and in
the mercy of justice the glory of government. She gives time honour in the fruit of action,
and reason grace in the application of knowledge. She takes the height of the sun, walks about
the world, sounds the depth of the sea, and makes her passage through the waters. She is ready
for all occasions, attendeth all persons, works with all instruments, and finisheth all actions.
She takes invention for her teacher, makes time her servant, method her direction, and place
her habitation. She hath a wakeful eye and a working brain, which fits the members of the body
to the service of the spirit. She is the physician's agent and the apothecary's benefactor,
the chirurgeon's wealth and the patient's patience. She brings time to labour and care to contentment,
learning to knowledge and virtue to honour: in idleness she hath no pleasure, nor acquaintance
with ignorance, but in industry is her delight and in understanding her grace. She hath a passage
through all the predicaments, she hath a hand in all the arts, a property in all professions,
and a quality in all conditions. In brief, so many are the varieties of the manners of her
proceedings as makes me fearful to follow her too far in observation, lest being never able
to come near the height of her commendation, I be enforced as I am to leave her wholly to admiration.

PATIENCE.

Patience is a kind of heavenly tenure, whereby the soul is held in possession, and a sweet
temper in the spirit, which restraineth nature from exceeding reason in passion. Her hand keeps
time in his right course, and her eye passeth into the depth of understanding. She attendeth
wisdom in all her works, and proportioneth time to the necessity of matter. She is the poison
of sorrow in the hope of comfort, and the paradise of conceit in the joy of peace. Her tongue
speaks seldom but to purpose, and her foot goeth slowly but surely. She is the imitator of
the Incomprehensible in His passage to perfection, and a servant of His will in the map of
His workmanship: in confusion she hath no operation, while she only aireth her conceit with
the consideration of experience. She travels far and is never weary, and gives over no work
but to better a beginning. She makes the king merciful and the subject loyal, honour gracious
and wisdom glorious. She pacifieth wrath and puts off revenge, and in the humility of charity
shows the nature of grace. She is beloved of the highest and embraced of the wisest, honoured
with the worthiest and graced with the best. She makes imprisonment liberty when the mind goeth
through the world, and in sickness finds health where death is the way to life. She is an enemy
to passion, and knows no purgatory; thinks fortune a fiction, and builds only upon providence.
She is the sick man's salve and the whole man's preserver, the wise man's staff and the good
man's guide. In sum, not to wade too far in her worthiness, lest I be drowned in the depth
of wonder, I will thus end in her endless honour:--She is the grace of Christ and the virtue
of Christianity, the praise of goodness and the preserver of the world.

LOVE.

Love is the life of Nature and the joy of reason in the spirit of grace; where virtue drawing
affection, the concord of sense makes an union inseparable in the divine apprehension of the
joy of election. It is a ravishment of the soul in the delight of the spirit, which, being
carried above itself into inexplicable comfort, feels that heavenly sickness that is better
than the world's health, when the wisest of men in the swounding delight of his sacred inspiration
could thus utter the sweetness of his passion, "My soul is sick of love." It is a healthful
sickness in the soul, a pleasing passion in the heart, a contentive labour in the mind, and
a peaceful trouble of the senses. It alters natures in contrarieties, when difficulty is made
easy; pain made a pleasure; poverty, riches; and imprisonment, liberty; for the content of
conceit, which regards not to be an abject, in being subject but to an object. It rejoiceth
in truth, and knows no inconstancy: it is free from jealousy, and feareth no fortune: it breaks
the rule of arithmetic by confounding of number, where the conjunction of thoughts makes one
mind in two bodies, where neither figure nor cipher can make division of union. It sympathises
with life, and participates with light, when the eye of the mind sees the joy of the heart.
It is a predominant power which endures no equality, and yet communicates with reason in the
rules of concord: it breeds safety in a king and peace in a kingdom, nation's unity, and Nature's
gladness. It sings in labour, in the joy of hope; and makes a paradise in reward of desert.
It pleads but mercy in the justice of the Almighty, and but mutual amity in the nature of humanity.
In sum, having no eagle's eye to look upon the sun, and fearing to look too high, for fear
of a chip in mine eye, I will in these few words speak in praise of this peerless virtue:--Love
is the grace of Nature and the glory of reason, the blessing of God and the comfort of the world.

PEACE.

Peace is a calm in conceit, where the senses take pleasure in the rest of the spirit. It is
Nature's holiday after reason's labour, and wisdom's music in the concords of the mind. It
is a blessing of grace, a bounty of mercy, a proof of love, and a preserver of life. It holds
no arguments, knows no quarrels, is an enemy to sedition, and a continuance of amity. It is
the root of plenty, the tree of pleasure, the fruit of love, and the sweetness of life. It
is like the still night, where all things are at rest, and the quiet sleep, where dreams are
not troublesome; or the resolved point, in the perfection of knowledge, where no cares nor
doubts make controversies in opinion. It needs no watch where is no fear of enemy, nor solicitor
of causes where agreements are concluded. It is the intent of law and the fruit of justice,
the end of war and the beginning of wealth. It is a grace in a court, and a glory in a kingdom,
a blessing in a family, and a happiness in a commonwealth. It fills the rich man's coffers,
and feeds the poor man's labour. It is the wise man's study, and the good man's joy: who love
it are gracious, who make it are blessed, who keep it are happy, and who break it are miserable.
It hath no dwelling with idolatry, nor friendship with falsehood; for her life is in truth,
and in her all is Amen. But lest in the justice of peace I may rather be reproved for my ignorance
of her work than thought worthy to speak in her praise, with this only conclusion in the commendation
of peace I will draw to an end and hold my peace:--It was a message of joy at the birth of
Christ, a song of joy at the embracement of Christ, an assurance of joy at the death of Christ,
and shall be the fulness of joy at the coming of Christ.

WAR.

War is a scourge of the wrath of God, which by famine, fire, or sword humbleth the spirits
of the repentant, trieth the patience of the faithful, and hardeneth the hearts of the ungodly.
It is the misery of time and the terror of Nature, the dispeopling of the earth and the ruin
of her beauty. Her life is action, her food blood, her honour valour, and her joy conquest.
She is valour's exercise and honour's adventure, reason's trouble and peace's enemy: she is
the stout man's love and the weak man's fear, the poor man's toil and the rich man's plague:
she is the armourer's benefactor and the chirurgeon's agent, the coward's ague and the desperate's
overthrow. She is the wish of envy, the plague of them that wish her, the shipwreck of life,
and the agent for death. The best of her is, that she is the seasoner of the body and the manager
of the mind for the enduring of labour in the resolution of action. She thunders in the air,
rips up the earth, cuts through the seas, and consumes with the fire: she is indeed the invention
of malice, the work of mischief, the music of hell, and the dance of the devil. She makes the
end of youth untimely and of age wretched, the city's sack and the country's beggary: she is
the captain's pride and the captive's sorrow, the throat of blood and the grave of flesh. She
is the woe of the world, the punishment of sin, the passage of danger, and the messenger of
destruction. She is the wise man's warning and the fool's payment, the godly man's grief and
the wicked man's game. In sum, so many are her wounds, so mortal her cures, so dangerous her
course, and so devilish her devices, that I will wade no further in her rivers of blood, but
only thus conclude in her description:--She is God's curse and man's misery, hell's practice
and earth's hell.

VALOUR.

Valour is a 'virtue in the spirit which keeps the flesh in subjection, resolves without fear,
and travails without fainting: she vows no villainy nor breaks her fidelity: she is patient
in captivity and pitiful in conquest. Her gain is honour and desert her mean, fortune her scorn
and folly her hate; wisdom is her guide and conquest her grace, clemency her praise and humility
her glory: she is youth's ornament and age's honour, nature's blessing and virtue's love. Her
life is resolution and her love victory, her triumph truth, and her fame virtue. Her arms are
from antiquity and her coat full of honour, where the title of grace hath her heraldry from
heaven. She makes a walk of war and a sport of danger, an ease of labour and a jest of death:
she makes famine but abstinence, want but a patience, sickness but a purge, and death a puff.
She is the maintainer of war, the general of an army, the terror of an enemy, and the glory
of a camp. She is the nobleness of the mind and the strength of the body, the life of hope
and the death of fear. With a handful of men she overthrows a multitude, and with a sudden
amazement she discomfits a camp. She is the revenge of wrong and the defence of right, religion's
champion and virtue's choice. In brief, let this suffice in her commendation:--She strengthened
David and conquered Goliath, she overthrows her enemies and conquers herself.

RESOLUTION.

Resolution is the honour of valour, in the quarrel of virtue, for the defence of right and
redress of wrong. She beats the march, pitcheth the battle, plants the ordnance, and maintains
the fight. Her ear is stopped for dissuasions, her eye aims only at honour, her hand takes
the sword of valour, and her heart thinks of nothing but victory. She gives the charge, makes
the stand, assaults the fort, and enters the breach. She breaks the pikes, faceth the shot,
damps the soldier, and defeats the army. She loseth no time, slips no occasion, dreads no danger,
and cares for no force. She is valour's life and virtue's love, justice's honour and mercy's
glory. She beats down castles, fires ships, wades through the sea, and walks through the world.
She makes wisdom her guide and will her servant, reason her companion and honour her mistress.
She is a blessing in Nature and a beauty in reason, a grace in invention and a glory in action.
She studies no plots when her platform is set down, and defers no time when her hour is prefixed.
She stands upon no helps when she knows her own force, and in the execution of her will she
is a rock irremovable. She is the king's will without contradiction, and the judge's doom without
exception, the scholar's profession without alteration, and the soldier's honour without comparison.
In sum, so many are the grounds of her grace and the just causes of her commendation, that,
leaving her worth to the description of better wits, I will in these few words conclude my
conceit of her:--She is the stoutness of the heart and the strength of the mind, a gift of
God and the glory of the world.

HONOUR.

Honour is a title or grace given by the spirit of virtue to the desert of valour in the defence
of truth; it is wronged in baseness and abused in unworthiness, and endangered in wantonness
and lost in wickedness. It nourisheth art and crowneth wit, graceth learning and glorifieth
wisdom; in the heraldry of heaven it hath the richest coat, being in nature allied unto all
the houses of grace, which in the heaven of heavens attend the King of kings. Her escutcheon
is a heart, in which in the shield of faith she bears on the anchor of hope the helmet of salvation:
she quarters with wisdom in the resolution of valour, and in the line of charity she is the
house of justice. Her supporters are time and patience, her mantle truth, and her crest Christ
treading upon the globe of the world, her impress Corona mea Christus. In brief, finding her
state so high that I am not able to climb unto the praise of her perfection, I will leave her
royalty to the register of most princely spirits, and in my humble heart thus only deliver
my opinion of her:--She is virtue's due and grace's gift, valour's wealth and reason's joy.

TRUTH.

Truth is the glory of time and the daughter of eternity, a title of the highest grace, and
a note of a divine nature. She is the life of religion, the light of love, the grace of wit,
and the crown of wisdom: she is the beauty of valour, the brightness of honour, the blessing
of reason, and the joy of faith. Her truth is pure gold, her time is right precious, her word
is most gracious, and her will is most glorious. Her essence is in God and her dwelling with
His servants, her will in His wisdom and her work to His glory. She is honoured in love and
graced in constancy, in patience admired and in charity beloved. She is the angel's worship,
the virgin's fame, the saint's bliss, and the martyr's crown: she is the king's greatness and
his counsel's goodness, his subject's peace and his kingdom's praise: she is the life of learning
and the light of law, the honour of trade and the grace of labour. She hath a pure eye, a plain
hand, a piercing wit, and a perfect heart. She is wisdom's walk in the way of holiness, and
takes up her rest but in the resolution of goodness. Her tongue never trips, her heart never
faints, her hand never fails, and her faith never fears. Her church is without schism, her
city without fraud, her court without vanity, and her kingdom without villainy. In sum, so
infinite is her excellence in the construction of all sense, that I will thus only conclude
in the wonder of her worth:--She is the nature of perfection in the perfection of Nature, where
God in Christ shows the glory of Christianity.

TIME.

Time is a continual motion, which from the highest Mover hath his operation in all the subjects
of Nature, according to their quality or disposition. He is in proportion like a circle, wherein
he walketh with an even passage to the point of his prefixed place. He attendeth none, and
yet is a servant to all; he is best employed by wisdom, and most abused by folly. He carrieth
both the sword and the sceptre, for the use both of justice and mercy. He is present in all
inventions, and cannot be spared from action. He is the treasury of graces in the memory of
the wise, and brings them forth to the world upon necessity of their use. He openeth the windows
of heaven to give light unto the earth, and spreads the cloak of the night to cover the rest
of labour. He closeth the eye of Nature and waketh the spirit of reason; he travelleth through
the mind, and is visible but to the eye of understanding. He is swifter than the wind, and
yet is still as a stone; precious in his right use, but perilous in the contrary. He is soon
found of the careful soul, and quickly missed in the want of his comfort: he is soon lost in
the lack of employment, and not to be recovered without a world of endeavour. He is the true
man's peace and the thief's perdition, the good man's blessing and the wicked man's curse.
He is known to be, but his being unknown, but only in his being in a being above knowledge.
He is a riddle not to be read but in the circumstance of description, his name better known
than his nature, and he that maketh best use of him hath the best understanding of him. He
is like the study of the philosopher's stone, where a man may see wonders and yet short of
his expectation. He is at the invention of war, arms the soldier, maintains the quarrel, and
makes the peace. He is the courtier's playfellow and the soldier's schoolmaster, the lawyer's
gain and the merchant's hope. His life is motion and his love action, his honour patience and
his glory perfection. He masketh modesty and blusheth virginity, honoureth humility and graceth
charity. In sum, finding it a world to walk through the wonder of his worth, I will thus briefly
deliver what I find truly of him:--He is the agent of the living and the register of the dead,
the direction of God and a great work-master in the world.

DEATH.

Death is an ordinance of God for the subjecting of the world, which is limited to his time
for the correction of pride: in his substance he is nothing, being but only ii deprivation,
and in his true description a name without a nature. He is seen but in a picture, heard but
in a tale, feared but in a passion, and felt but in a pinch. He is a terror but to the wicked,
and a scarecrow but to the foolish; but to the wise a way of comfort, and to the godly the
gate to life. He is the ease of pain and the end of sorrow, the liberty of the imprisoned and
the joy of the faithful; it is both the wound of sin and the wages of sin, the sinner's fear
and the sinner's doom. He is the sexton's agent and the hangman's revenue, the rich man's dirge
and the mourner's merry-day. He is a course of time but uncertain till he come, and welcome
but to such as are weary of their lives. It is a message from the physician when the patient
is past cure, and if the writ be well made, it is a supersedeas for all diseases. It is the
heaven's stroke and the earth's steward, the follower of sickness and the forerunner to hell
In sum, having no pleasure to ponder too much of the power of it, I will thus conclude my opinion
of it:--It is a sting of sin and the terror of the wicked, the crown of the godly, the stair
of vengeance, and a stratagem of the devil.

FAITH.

Faith is the hand of the soul which layeth hold of the promises of Christ in the mercy of the
Almighty. She hath a bright eye and a holy ear, a clear heart and sure foot: she is the strength
of hope, the trust of truth, the honour of amity, and the joy of love. She is rare among the
sons of men and hardly found among the daughters of women; but among the sons of God she is
a conveyance of their inheritance, and among the daughters of grace she is the assurance of
their portions. Her dwelling is in the Church of God, her conversation with the saints of God,
her delight with the beloved of God, and her life is in the love of God. She knows no falsehood,
distrusts no truth, breaks no promise, and coins no excuse; but as bright as the sun, as swift
as the wind, as sure as the rock, and as pure as the gold, she looks toward heaven but lives
in the world, in the souls of the elect to the glory of election. She was wounded in Paradise
by a dart of the devil, and healed of her hurt by the death of Christ Jesus. She is the poor
man's credit and the rich man's praise, the wise man's care and the good man's cognisance.
In sum, finding her worth in words hardly to be expressed, I will in these few words only deliver
my opinion of her:--She is God's blessing and man's bliss, reason's comfort and virtue's glory.

FEAR.

Fear is a fruit of sin, which drove the first father of our flesh from the presence of God,
and hath bred an imperfection in a number of the worse part of his posterity. It is the disgrace
of nature, the foil of reason, the maim of wit, and the slur of understanding. It is the palsy
of the spirit where the soul wanteth faith, and the badge of a coward that cannot abide the
sight of a sword. It is weakness in nature and a wound in patience, the death of hope and the
entrance into despair. It is children's awe and fools' amazement, a worm in conscience and
a curse to wickedness. In brief, it makes the coward stagger, the liar stammer, the thief stumble,
and the traitor start. It is a blot in arms, a blur in honour, the shame of a soldier, and
the defeat of an army.

       *       *       *       *       *

Breton's next little prose book, published in the following year, 1616--year of the death of
Shakespeare--was a set of Characters, "The Good and the Bad," without suggestion that they
were built upon the lines of Bacon's Essays. Bacon's Essays first appeared as a set of ten
in 1597, became a set of forty in the revised edition of 1612, and of fifty-eight in the edition
of 1625, published a year before their author's death. In their sententious brevity Bacon's
Essays have, of course, a style more nearly allied to the English Character Writing of the
Seventeenth Century than to the Sixteenth Century Essays of Montaigne, which were altogether
different in style, matter, and aim. This, for example, was Bacon's first Essay in the 1597
edition:--

OF STUDIES.

Studies serve for pastimes, for ornaments, for abilities; their chief use for pastimes is in
privateness and retiring, for ornaments in discourse, and for ability in judgment; for expert
men can execute, but learned men are more fit to judge and censure.

THE GOOD AND THE BAD;

OR,

DESCRIPTIONS OF THE WORTHIES AND

UNWORTHIES OF THIS AGE.

BY NICHOLAS BRETON.

A WORTHY KING.

A worthy king is a figure of God, in the nature of government. He is the chief of men and the
Church's champion, Nature's honour and earth's majesty: is the director of law and the strength
of the same, the sword of justice and the sceptre of mercy, the glass of grace and the eye
of honour, the terror of treason and the life of loyalty. His command is general and his power
absolute, his frown a death and his favour a life: his charge is his subjects, his care their
safety, his pleasure their peace, and his joy their love. He is not to be paralleled, because
he is without equality, and the prerogative of his crown must not be contradicted. He is the
Lord's anointed, and therefore must not be touched, and the head of a public body, and therefore
must be preserved. He is a scourge of sin and a blessing of grace, God's vicegerent over His
people, and under Him supreme governor. His safety must be his council's care, his health his
subjects' prayer, his pleasure his peers' comfort, and his content his kingdom's gladness.
His presence must be reverenced, his person attended, his court adorned, and his state maintained.
His bosom must not be searched, his will not disobeyed, his wants not unsupplied, nor his place
unregarded. In sum, he is more than a man, though not a god, and next under God to be honoured
above man.

AN UNWORTHY KING.

An unworthy king is the usurper of power, where tyranny in authority loseth the glory of majesty,
while the fear of terror frighteneth love from obedience; for when the lion plays with the
wolf, the lamb dies with the ewe. He is a messenger of wrath to be the scourge of sin, or the
trial of patience in the hearts of the religious. He is a warrant of woe in the execution of
his fury, and in his best temper a doubt of grace. He is a dispeopler of his kingdom and a
prey to his enemies, an undelightful friend and a tormentor of himself. He knows no God, but
makes an idol of Nature, and useth reason but to the ruin of sense. His care is but his will,
his pleasure but his ease, his exercise but sin, and his delight but inhuman. His heaven is
his pleasure, and his gold is his god. His presence is terrible, his countenance horrible,
his words uncomfortable, and his actions intolerable. In sum, he is the foil of a crown, the
disgrace of a court, the trouble of a council, and the plague of a kingdom.

A WORTHY QUEEN.

A worthy queen is the figure of a king who, under God in His grace, hath a great power over
His people. She is the chief of women, the beauty of her court, and the grace of her sex in
the royalty of her spirit. She is like the moon, that giveth light among the stars, and, but
unto the sun, gives none place in her brightness. She is the pure diamond upon the king's finger,
and the orient pearl unprizeable in his eye, the joy of the court in the comfort of the king,
and the wealth of the kingdom in the fruit of her love. She is reason's honour in nature's
grace, and wisdom's love in virtue's beauty. In sum, she is the handmaid of God, and the king's
second self, and in his grace, the beauty of a kingdom.

A WORTHY PRINCE.

A worthy prince is the hope of a kingdom, the richest jewel in a king's crown, and the fairest
flower in the queen's garden. He is the joy of nature in the hope of honour, and the love of
wisdom in the life of worthiness. In the secret carriage of his heart's intention, till his
designs come to action, he is a dumb show to the world's imagination. In his wisdom he startles
the spirits of expectation in his valour, he subjects the hearts of ambition in his virtue,
he wins the love of the noblest, and in his bounty binds the service of the most sufficient.
He is the crystal glass, where nature may see her comfort, and the book of reason, where virtue
may read her honour. He is the morning star that hath light from the sun, and the blessed fruit
of the tree of earth's paradise. He is the study of the wise in the state of honour, and is
the subject of learning, the history of admiration. In sum, he is the note of wisdom, the aim
of honour, and in the honour of virtue the hope of a kingdom.

AN UNWORTHY PRINCE.

An unworthy prince is the fear of a kingdom. When will and power carry pride in impatience,
in the close carriage of ambitious intention, he is like a fearful dream to a troubled spirit.
In his passionate humours he frighteneth the hearts of the prudent, in the delight of vanities
he loseth the love of the wise, and in the misery of avarice is served only with the needy.
He is like a little mist before the rising of the sun, which, the more it grows, the less good
it doth. He is the king's grief and the queen's sorrow, the court's trouble and the kingdom's
curse. In sum, he is the seed of unhappiness, the fruit of ungodliness, the taste of bitterness,
and the digestion of heaviness.

A WORTHY PRIVY COUNCILLOR.

A worthy privy councillor is the pillar of a realm, in whose wisdom and care, under God and
the king, stands the safety of a kingdom. He is the watch-tower to give warning of the enemy,
and a hand of provision for the preservation of the state. He is an oracle in the king's ear,
and a sword in the king's hand; an even weight in the balance of justice, and a light of grace
in the love of truth. He is an eye of care in the course of law, a heart of love in his service
to his sovereign, a mind of honour in the order of his service, and a brain of invention for
the good of the commonwealth. His place is powerful while his service is faithful, and his
honour due in the desert of his employment. In sum, he is as a fixed planet among the stars
of the firmament, which through the clouds in the air shows the nature of his light.

AN UNWORTHY COUNCILLOR.

An unworthy councillor is the hurt of a king and the danger of a state, when the weakness of
judgment may commit an error, or the lack of care may give way to unhappiness. He is a wicked
charm in the king's ear, a sword of terror in the advice of tyranny. His power is perilous
in the partiality of will, and his heart full of hollowness in the protestation of love. Hypocrisy
is the cover of his counterfeit religion, and traitorous invention is the agent of his ambition.
He is the cloud of darkness that threateneth foul weather; and if it grow to a storm, it is
fearful where it falls. He is an enemy to God in the hate of grace, and worthy of death in
disloyalty to his sovereign. In sum, he is an unfit person for the place of a councillor and
an unworthy subject to look a king in the face.

A NOBLEMAN.

A nobleman is a mark of honour, where the eye of wisdom in the observation of desert sees the
fruit of grace. He is the orient pearl that reason polisheth for the beauty of nature, and
the diamond spark where divine grace gives virtue honour. He is the notebook of moral discipline,
where the conceit of care may find the true courtier. He is the nurse of hospitality, the relief
of necessity, the love of charity, and the life of bounty. He is learning's grace and valour's
fame, wisdom's fruit and kindness' love. He is the true falcon that feeds on no carrion, the
true horse that will be no hackney, the true dolphin that fears not the whale, and the true
man of God that fears not the devil. In sum, he is the darling of nature in reason's philosophy,
the loadstar of light in love's astronomy, the ravishing sweet in the music of honour, and
the golden number in grace's arithmetic.

AN UNNOBLE MAN.

An unnoble man is the grief of reason, when the title of honour is put upon the subject of
disgrace; when either the imperfection of wit or the folly of will shows an unfitness in nature
for the virtue of advancement. He is the eye of baseness and spirit of grossness, and in the
demean of rudeness the scorn of nobleness. He is a suspicion of a right generation in the nature
of his disposition, and a miserable plague to a feminine patience. Wisdom knows him not, learning
bred him not, virtue loves him not, and honour fits him not. Prodigality or avarice are the
notes of his inclination, and folly or mischief are the fruits of his invention. In sum, he
is the shame of his name, the disgrace of his place, the blot of his title, and the ruin of
his house.

A WORTHY BISHOP.

A worthy bishop is an ambassador from God unto man, in the midst of war to make a treaty of
peace; who with a general pardon upon confession of sin, upon the fruit of repentance gives
assurance of comfort. He brings tidings from heaven of happiness to the world, where the patience
of mercy calls nature to grace. He is the silver trumpet in the music of love, where faith
hath a life that never fails the beloved. He is the director of life in the laws of God, and
the chirurgeon of the soul in lancing the sores of sin; the terror of the reprobate in pronouncing
their damnation, and the joy of the faithful in the assurance of their salvation. In sum, he
is in the nature of grace, worthy of honour; and in the message of life, worthy of love; a
continual agent betwixt God and man, in the preaching of His Word and prayer for His people.

AN UNWORTHY BISHOP.

An unworthy bishop is the disgrace of learning, when the want of reading or the abuse of understanding,
in the speech of error may beget idolatry. He is God's enemy, in the hurt of His people, and
his own woe in abuse of the Word of God. He is the shadow of a candle that gives no light,
or, if it be any, it is but to lead into darkness. The sheep are unhappy that live in his fold,
when they shall either starve or feed on ill ground. He breeds a war in the wits of his audience
when his life is contrary to the nature of his instruction. He lives in a room where he troubles
a world, and in the shadow of a saint is little better than a devil. He makes religion a cloak
of sin, and with counterfeit humility covereth incomparable pride. He robs the rich to relieve
the poor, and makes fools of the wise with the imagination of his worth. He is all for the
Church but nothing for God, and for the ease of nature loseth the joy of reason. In sum, he
is the picture of hypocrisy, the spirit of heresy, a wound in the Church, and a woe in the world.

A WORTHY JUDGE.

A judge is a doom, whose breath is mortal upon the breach of law, where criminal offences must
be cut off from a commonwealth. He is a sword of justice in the hand of a king, and an eye
of wisdom in the walk of a kingdom. His study is a square for the keeping of proportion betwixt
command and obedience, that the king may keep his crown on his head, and the subject his head
on his shoulders. He is feared but of the foolish, and cursed but of the wicked; but of the
wise honoured, and of the gracious beloved. He is a surveyor of rights and revenger of wrongs,
and in the judgment of truth the honour of justice. In sum, his word is law, his power grace,
his labour peace, and his desert honour.

AN UNWORTHY JUDGE.

An unworthy judge is the grief of justice in the error of judgment, when through ignorance
or will the death of innocency lies upon the breath of opinion. He is the disgrace of law in
the desert of knowledge, and the plague of power in the misery of oppression. He is more moral
than divine in the nature of policy, and more judicious than just in the carriage of his conceit.
His charity is cold when partiality is resolved; when the doom of life lies on the verdict
of a jury, with a stern look he frighteth an offender and gives little comfort to a poor man's
cause. The golden weight overweighs his grace, when angels play the devils in the hearts of
his people. In sum, where Christ is preached he hath no place in His Church; and in this kingdom
out of doubt God will not suffer any such devil to bear sway.

A WORTHY KNIGHT.

A worthy knight is a spirit of proof in the advancement of virtue, by the desert of honour,
in the eye of majesty. In the field he gives courage to his soldiers, in the court grace to
his followers, in the city reputation to his person, and in the country honour to his house.
His sword and his horse make his way to his house, and his armour of best proof is an undaunted
spirit. The music of his delight is the trumpet and the drum, and the paradise of his eye is
an army defeated; the relief of the oppressed makes his conquest honourable, and the pardon
of the submissive makes him famous in mercy. He is in nature mild and in spirit stout, in reason
judicious, and in all honourable. In sum, he is a yeoman's commander and a gentleman's superior,
a nobleman's companion and a prince's worthy favourite.

AN UNWORTHY KNIGHT.

An unworthy knight is the defect of nature in the title of honour, when to maintain valour
his spurs have no rowels nor his sword a point. His apparel is of proof, that may wear like
his armour, or like an old ensign that hath his honour in rags. It may be he is the tailor's
trouble in fitting an ill shape, or a mercer's wonder in wearing of silk. In the court he stands
for a cipher, and among ladies like an owl among birds. He is worshipped only for his wealth,
and if he be of the first head, he shall be valued by his wit, when, if his pride go beyond
his purse, his title will be a trouble to him. In sum, he is the child of folly and the man
of Gotham, the blind man of pride and the fool of imagination. But in the court of honour are
no such apes, and I hope that this kingdom will breed no such asses.

A WORTHY GENTLEMAN.

A worthy gentleman is a branch of the tree of honour, whose fruits are the actions of virtue,
as pleasing to the eye of judgment as tasteful to the spirit of understanding. Whatsoever he
doeth it is not forced, except it be evil, which either through ignorance unwillingly, or through
compulsion unwillingly, he falls upon. He is in nature kind, in demeanour courteous, in allegiance
loyal, and in religion zealous; in service faithful, and in reward bountiful. He is made of
no baggage stuff, nor for the wearing of base people; but it is woven by the spirit of wisdom
to adorn the court of honour. His apparel is more comely than costly, and his diet more wholesome
than excessive; his exercise more healthful than painful, and his study more for knowledge
than pride; his love not wanton nor common, his gifts not niggardly nor prodigal, and his carriage
neither apish nor sullen. In sum, he is an approver of his pedigree by the nobleness of his
passage, and in the course of his life an example to his posterity.

AN UNWORTHY GENTLEMAN.

An unworthy gentleman is the scoff of wit and the scorn of honour, where more wealth than wit
is worshipped of simplicity; who spends more in idleness than would maintain thrift, or hides
more in misery than might purchase honour; whose delights are vanities and whose pleasures
fopperies, whose studies fables and whose exercise worse than follies. His conversation is
base, and his conference ridiculous; his affections ungracious, and his actions ignominious;
his apparel out of fashion, and his diet out of order; his carriage out of square, and his
company out of request. In sum, he is like a mongrel dog with a velvet collar, a cart-horse
with a golden saddle, a buzzard kite with a falcon's bells, or a baboon with a pied jerkin.

A WORTHY LAWYER.

A worthy lawyer is the student of knowledge how to bring controversies into a conclusion of
peace, and out of ignorance to gain understanding. He divides time into uses, and cases into
constructions. He lays open obscurities, and is praised for the speech of truth; and in the
court of conscience pleads much in forma pauperis, for small fees. He is a mean for the preservation
of titles and the holding of possessions, and a great instrument of peace in the judgment of
impartiality. He is the client's hope in his case's pleading, and his heart's comfort in a
happy issue. He is the finder out of tricks in the craft of ill conscience, and the joy of
the distressed in the relief of justice. In sum, he is a maker of peace among spirits of contention,
and a continuer of quiet in the execution of the law.

AN UNWORTHY LAWYER.

An unlearned and unworthily called a lawyer, is the figure of a foot-post, who carries letters
but knows not what is in them, only can read the superscriptions to direct them to their right
owners. So trudgeth this simple clerk, that can scarce read a case when it is written, with
his handful of papers from one court to another, and from one counsellor's chamber to another,
when by his good payment for his pains he will be so saucy as to call himself a solicitor.
But what a taking are poor clients in when this too much trusted cunning companion, better
read in Piers Plowman than in Plowden, and in the play of "Richard the Third" than in the pleas
of Edward the Fourth, persuades them all is sure when he is sure of all! and in what a misery
are the poor men when upon a Nihil dicit, because indeed this poor fellow Nihil potest dicere,
they are in danger of an execution before they know wherefore they are condemned. But I wish
all such more wicked than witty unlearned in the law and abusers of the same, to look a little
better into their consciences, and to leave their crafty courses, lest when the law indeed
lays them open, instead of carrying papers in their hands, they wear not papers on their heads;
and instead of giving ear to their client's causes or rather eyes into their purses, they have
never an ear left to hear withal, nor good eye to see withal, or at least honest face to look
out withal; but as the grasshoppers of Egypt, be counted the caterpillars of England, and not
the fox that stole the goose, but the great fox that stole the farm from the gander.

A WORTHY SOLDIER.

A worthy soldier is the child of valour, who was born for the service of necessity, and to
bear the ensign of honour in the actions of worth. He is the dyer of the earth with blood,
and the ruin of the erections of pride. He is the watch of wit, the advantage of time, and
the executioner of wrath upon the wilful offender. He disputes questions with the point of
a sword, and prefers death to indignities. He is a lion to ambition, and a lamb to submission;
he hath hope fast by the hand, and treads upon the head of fear. He is the king's champion,
and the kingdom's guard; peace's preserver, and rebellion's terror. He makes the horse trample
at the sound of a trumpet, and leads on to a battle as if he were going to a breakfast. He
knows not the nature of cowardice, for his rest is set up upon resolution; his strongest fortification
is his mind, which beats off the assaults of idle humours, and his life is the passage of danger,
where an undaunted spirit stoops to no fortune. With his arms he wins his arms, and by his
desert in the field his honour in the court. In sum, in the truest manhood he is the true man,
and in the creation of honour a most worthy creature.

AN UNTRAINED SOLDIER.

An untrained soldier is like a young hound, that when he first falls to hunt, he knows not
how to lay his nose to the earth; who, having his name but in a book, and marched twice about
a market-place, when he comes to a piece of service knows not how to bestow himself. He marches
as if he were at plough, carries his pike like a pike-staff, and his sword before him for fear
of losing from his side. If he be a shot, he will be rather ready to say a grace over his piece,
and so to discharge his hands of it, than to learn how to discharge it with a grace. He puts
on his armour over his ears, like a waistcoat, and wears his morion like a nightcap. When he
is quartered in the field, he looks for his bed, and when he sees his provant, he is ready
to cry for his victuals; and ere he know well where he is, wish heartily he were at home again,
with his head hanging down as if his heart were in his hose. He will sleep till a drum or a
deadly bullet awake him; and so carry himself in all companies that, till martial discipline
have seasoned his understanding, he is like a cipher among figures, an owl among birds, a wise
man among fools, and a shadow among men.

A WORTHY PHYSICIAN.

A worthy physician is the enemy of sickness, in purging nature from corruption. His action
is most in feeling of pulses, and his discourses chiefly of the natures of diseases. He is
a great searcher out of simples, and accordingly makes his composition. He persuades abstinence
and patience for the benefit of health, while purging and bleeding are the chief courses of
his counsel. The apothecary and the chirurgeon are his two chief attendants, with whom conferring
upon time, he grows temperate in his cures. Surfeits and wantonness are great agents for his
employment, when by the secret of his skill out of others' weakness he gathers his own strength.
In sum, he is a necessary member for an unnecessary malady, to find a disease and to cure the
diseased.

AN UNWORTHY PHYSICIAN.

An unlearned and so unworthy physician is a kind of horse-leech, whose cure is most in drawing
of blood, and a desperate purge, either to cure or kill, as it hits. His discourse is most
of the cures that he hath done, and them afar of; and not a receipt under a hundred pounds,
though it be not worth three halfpence. Upon the market-day he is much haunted with urinals,
where if he find anything (though he know nothing), yet he will say somewhat, which if it hit
to some purpose, with a few fustian words he will seem a piece of strange stuff. He is never
without old merry tales and stale jests to make old folks laugh, and comfits or plums in his
pocket to please little children; yea, and he will be talking of complexions, though he know
nothing of their dispositions; and if his medicine do a feat, he is a made man among fools;
but being wholly unlearned, and ofttimes unhonest, let me thus briefly describe him:--He is
a plain kind of mountebank and a true quack-salver, a danger for the sick to deal withal, and
a dizzard in the world to talk withal.

A WORTHY MERCHANT.

A worthy merchant is the heir of adventure, whose hopes hang much upon wind. Upon a wooden
horse he rides through the world, and in a merry gale he makes a path through the seas. He
is a discoverer of countries, and a finder out of commodities, resolute in his attempts, and
royal in his expenses. He is the life of traffic and the maintainer of trade, the sailor's
master and the soldier's friend. He is the exercise of the exchange, the honour of credit,
the observation of time, and the understanding of thrift. His study is number, his care his
accounts, his comfort his conscience, and his wealth his good name. He fears not Scylla, and
sails close by Charybdis, and having beaten out a storm, rides at rest in a harbour. By his
sea-gain he makes his land purchase, and by the knowledge of trade finds the key of treasure.
Out of his travels he makes his discourses, and from his eye observations brings the models
of architectures. He plants the earth with foreign fruits, and knows at home what is good abroad.
He is neat in apparel, modest in demeanour, dainty in diet, and civil in his carriage. In sum,
he is the pillar of a city, the enricher of a country, the furnisher of a court, and the worthy
servant of a king.

AN UNWORTHY MERCHANT.

An unworthy merchant is a kind of pedlar, who (with the help of a broker) gets more by his
wit than by his honesty. He doth sometime use to give out money to gamesters, be paid in post,
upon a hand at dice. Sometime he gains more by baubles than better stuffs, and rather than
fail will adventure a false oath for a fraudulent gain. He deals with no wholesale, but all
his honesty is at one word; as for wares and weights, he knows how to hold the balance, and
for his conscience he is not ignorant what to do with it. His travel is most by land, for he
fears to be too busy with the water, and whatever his ware may be, he will be sure of his money.
The most of his wealth is in a pack of trifles, and for his honesty I dare not pass my word
for him. If he be rich, it is ten to one of his pride; and if he be poor, he breaks without
his fast. In sum, he is the disgrace of a merchant, the dishonour of a city, the discredit
of his parish, and the dislike of all.

A GOOD MAN.

A good man is an image of God, lord over all His creatures, and created only for His service.
He is made capable of reason to know the properties of nature, and by the inspiration of grace
to know things supernatural. He hath a face always to look upward, and a soul that gives life
to all the senses. He lives in the world as a stranger, while heaven is the home of his spirit.
His life is but the labour of sense, and his death the way to his rest. His study is the Word
of truth, and his delight is in the law of love. His provision is but to serve necessity, and
his care the exercise of charity. He is more conversant with the divine prophets than the world's
profits, and makes the joy of his soul in the tidings of his salvation. He is wise in the best
wit, and wealthy in the richest treasure. His hope is but the comfort of mercy, and his fear
but the hurt of sin. Pride is the hate of his soul, and patience the worker of his peace. His
guide is the wisdom of grace, and his travel but to the Heavenly Jerusalem. In sum, he is the
elect of God, the blessing of grace, the seed of love, and the fruit of life.

AN ATHEIST OR MOST BAD MAN.

An atheist is a figure of desperation, who dare do anything even to his soul's damnation. He
is in nature a dog, in wit an ass, in passion a bedlam, and in action a devil. He makes sin
a jest, grace a humour, truth a fable, and peace a cowardice. His horse is his pride, his sword
is his castle, his apparel his riches, and his punk his paradise. He makes robbery his purchase,
lechery his solace, mirth his exercise, and drunkenness his glory. He is the danger of society,
the love of vanity, the hate of charity, and the shame of humanity. He is God's enemy, his
parents' grief, his country's plague, and his own confusion. He spoils that is necessary and
spends that is needless. He spits at the gracious and spurns the godly. The tavern is his palace
and his belly is his god; a whore is his mistress and the devil is his master. Oaths are his
graces, wounds his badges, shifts are his practices, and beggary his payments. He knows not
God, nor thinks of heaven, but walks through the world as a devil towards hell. Virtue knows
him not, honesty finds him not, wisdom loves him not, and honour regards him not. He is but
the cutler's friend and the chirurgeon's agent, the thief's companion and the hangman's benefactor.
He was begotten untimely and born unhappily, lives ungraciously and dies unchristianly. He
is of no religion nor good fashion; hardly good complexion, and most vile in condition. In
sum, he is a monster among men, a Jew among Christians, a fool among wise men, and a devil
among saints.

A WISE MAN.

A wise man is a clock that never strikes but at his home, or rather like a dial that, being
set right with the sun, keeps his true course in his compass. So the heart of a wise man, set
in the course of virtue by the spirit of grace, runs the course of life in the compass of eternal
comfort. He measureth time and tempereth nature, employeth reason and commandeth sense. He
hath a deaf ear to the charmer, a close mouth to the slanderer, an open hand to charity, and
an humble mind to piety. Observation and experience are his reason's labours, and patience
with conscience are the lines of his love's measure; contemplation and meditation are his spirit's
exercise, and God and His Word are the joy of his soul. He knows not the pride of prosperity
nor the misery of adversity, but takes the one as the day, the other as the night. He knows
no fortune, but builds all upon providence, and through the hope of faith hath a fair aim at
heaven. His words are weighed with judgment, and his actions are the examples of honour. He
is fit for the seat of authority, and deserves the reverence of subjection. He is precious
in the counsel of a king, and mighty in the sway of a kingdom. In sum, he is God's servant
and the world's master, a stranger upon earth, and a citizen in heaven.

A FOOL.

A fool is the abortive of wit, where nature had more power than reason in bringing forth the
fruit of imperfection. His actions are most in extremes, and the scope of his brain is but
ignorance. Only nature hath taught him to feed, and use to labour without knowledge. He is
a kind of a shadow of a better substance, or like the vision of a dream that yields nothing
awake. He is commonly known by one or two special names, derived from their qualities, as from
wilful Will-fool, and Hodge from hodge-podge; all meats are alike, all are one to a fool. His
exercises are commonly divided into four parts, eating and drinking, sleeping and laughing;
four things are his chief loves, a bauble and a bell, a coxcomb and a pied-coat. He was begotten
in unhappiness, born to no goodness, lives but in beastliness, and dies but in forgetfulness.
In sum, he is the shame of nature, the trouble of wit, the charge of charity, and the loss
of liberality.

AN HONEST MAN.

An honest man is like a plain coat, which, without welt or guard, keepeth the body from wind
and weather, and being well made, fits him best that wears it; and where the stuff is more
regarded than the fashion, there is not much ado in the putting of it on. So the mind of an
honest man, without trick or compliments, keeps the credit of a good conscience from the scandal
of the world and the worm of iniquity, which, being wrought by the workman of heaven, fits
him best that wears it to his service; and where virtue is more esteemed than vanity, it is
put on and worn with that ease that shows the excellency of the workman. His study is virtue,
his word truth, his life the passage of patience, and his death the rest of his spirit. His
travail is a pilgrimage, his way is plainness, his pleasure peace, and his delight is love.
His care is his conscience, his wealth is his credit, his charge is his chanty, and his content
is his kingdom. In sum, he is a diamond among jewels, a phrenix among birds, an unicorn among
beasts, and a saint among men.

A KNAVE.

A knave is the scum of wit and the scorn of reason, the hate of wisdom and the dishonour of
humanity. He is the danger of society and the hurt of amity, the infection of youth and the
corruption of age. He is a traitor to affiance and abuse to employment, and a rule of villainy
in a plot of mischief. He hath a cat's eye and a bear's paw, a siren's tongue and a serpent's
sting. His words are lies, his oaths perjuries, his studies subtilties, and his practices villainies;
his wealth is his wit, his honour is his wealth, his glory is his gain, and his god is his
gold. He is no man's friend and his own enemy; cursed on earth and banished from heaven. He
was begotten ungraciously, born untimely, lives dishonestly, and dies shamefully. His heart
is a puddle of poison, his tongue a sting of iniquity, his brain a distiller of deceit, and
his conscience a compass of hell. In sum, he is a dog in disposition, a fox in wit, a wolf
in his prey, and a devil in his pride.

AN USURER.

An usurer is a figure of misery, who hath made himself a slave to his money. His eye is closed
from pity, and his hand from charity; his ear from compassion, and his heart from piety. While
he lives he is the hate of a Christian, and when he dies he goes with horror to hell. His study
is sparing, and his care is getting; his fear is wanting, and his death is losing. His diet
is either fasting or poor fare, his clothing the hangman's wardrobe, his house the receptacle
of thievery, and his music the clinking of his money. He is a kind of cancer that with the
teeth of interest eats the hearts of the poor, and a venomous fly that sucks out the blood
of any flesh that he lights on. In sum, he is a servant of dross, a slave to misery, an agent
for hell, and a devil in the world.

A BEGGAR.

A beggar is the child of idleness, whose life is a resolution of ease. His travail is most
in the highways, and his rendezvous is commonly in an ale-house. His study is to counterfeit
impotency, and his practice to cozen simplicity of charity. The juice of the malt is the liquor
of his life, and at bed and at board a louse is his companion. He fears no such enemy as a
constable, and being acquainted with the stocks, must visit them as he goes by them. He is
a drone that feeds upon the labours of the bee, and unhappily begotten that is born for no
goodness. His staff and his scrip are his walking furniture, and what he lacks in meat he will
have out in drink. He is a kind of caterpillar that spoils much good fruit, and an unprofitable
creature to live in a commonwealth. He is seldom handsome and often noisome, always troublesome
and never welcome. He prays for all and preys upon all; begins with blessing but ends often
with cursing. If he have a licence he shows it with a grace, but if he have none he is submissive
to the ground. Sometime he is a thief, but always a rogue, and in the nature of his profession
the shame of humanity. In sum, he is commonly begot in a bush, born in a barn, lives in a highway,
and dies in a ditch.

A VIRGIN.

A virgin is the beauty of nature, where the spirit gracious makes the creature glorious. She
is the love of virtue, the honour of reason, the grace of youth, and the comfort of age. Her
study is holiness, her exercise goodness, her grace humility, and her love is charity. Her
countenance is modesty, her speech is truth, her wealth grace, and her fame constancy. Her
virtue continence, her labour patience, her diet abstinence, and her care conscience. Her conversation
heavenly, her meditations angel-like, her prayers devout, and her hopes divine: her parents'
joy, her kindred's honour, her country's fame, and her own felicity. She is the blessed of
the highest, the praise of the worthiest, the love of the noblest, and the nearest to the best.
She is of creatures the rarest, of women the chiefest, of nature the purest, and of wisdom
the choicest. Her life is a pilgrimage, her death but a passage, her description a wonder,
and her name an honour. In sum, she is the daughter of glory, the mother of grace, the sister
of love, and the beloved of life.

A WANTON WOMAN.

A wanton woman is the figure of imperfection; in nature an ape, in quality a wagtail, in countenance
a witch, and in condition a kind of devil. Her beck is a net, her word a charm, her look an
illusion, and her company a confusion. Her life is the play of idleness, her diet the excess
of dainties, her love the change of vanities, and her exercise the invention of follies. Her
pleasures are fancies, her studies fashions, her delight colours, and her wealth her clothes.
Her care is to deceive, her comfort her company, her house is vanity, and her bed is ruin.
Her discourses are fables, her vows dissimulations, her conceits subtleties, and her contents
varieties. She would she knows not what, and spends she cares not what, she spoils she sees
not what, and doth she thinks not what. She is youth's plague and age's purgatory, time's abuse
and reason's trouble. In sum, she is a spice of madness, a spark of mischief, a touch of poison,
and a fear of destruction.

A QUIET WOMAN.

A quiet woman is like a still wind, which neither chills the body nor blows dust in the face.
Her patience is a virtue that wins the heart of love, and her wisdom makes her will well worthy
regard. She fears God and flieth sin, showeth kindness and loveth peace. Her tongue is tied
to discretion, and her heart is the harbour of goodness. She is a comfort of calamity and in
prosperity a companion, a physician in sickness and a musician in help. Her ways are the walk
toward heaven, and her guide is the grace of the Almighty. She is her husband's down-bed, where
his heart lies at rest, and her children's glass in the notes of her grace; her servants' honour
in the keeping of her house, and her neighbours' example in the notes of a good nature. She
scorns fortune and loves virtue, and out of thrift gathereth charity. She is a turtle in her
love, a lamb in her meekness, a saint in her heart, and an angel in her soul. In sum, she is
a jewel unprizeable and a joy unspeakable, a comfort in nature incomparable, and a wife in
the world unmatchable.

AN UNQUIET WOMAN.

An unquiet woman is the misery of man, whose demeanour is not to be described but in extremities.
Her voice is the screeching of an owl, her eye the poison of a cockatrice, her hand the claw
of a crocodile, and her heart a cabinet of horror. She is the grief of nature, the wound of
wit, the trouble of reason, and the abuse of time. Her pride is unsupportable, her anger unquenchable,
her will unsatiable, and her malice unmatchable. She fears no colours, she cares for no counsel,
she spares no persons, nor respects any time. Her command is must, her reason will, her resolution
shall, and her satisfaction so. She looks at no law and thinks of no lord, admits no command
and keeps no good order. She is a cross but not of Christ, and a word but not of grace; a creature
but not of wisdom, and a servant but not of God. In sum, she is the seed of trouble, the fruit
of travail, the taste of bitterness, and the digestion of death.

A GOOD WIFE.

A good wife is a world of wealth, where just cause of content makes a kingdom in conceit. She
is the eye of wariness, the tongue of silence, the hand of labour, and the heart of love; a
companion of kindness, a mistress of passion, an exercise of patience, and an example of experience.
She is the kitchen physician, the chamber comfort, the hall's care, and the parlour's grace.
She is the dairy's neatness, the brew-house's wholesomeness, the garner's provision and the
garden's plantation. Her voice is music, her countenance meekness, her mind virtuous, and her
soul gracious. She is her husband's jewel, her children's joy, her neighbour's love, and her
servant's honour. She is poverty's prayer and charity's praise, religion's love and devotion's
zeal. She is a care of necessity and a course of thrift, a book of housewifery and a mirror
of modesty. In sum, she is God's blessing and man's happiness, earth's honour and heaven's
creature.

AN EFFEMINATE FOOL.

An effeminate fool is the figure of a baby. In sum, he is a man-child and a woman's man, a
gaze of folly, and wisdom's grief.

A PARASITE.

A parasite is the image of iniquity, who for the gain of dross is devoted to all villainy.
He is a kind of thief in committing of burglary, when he breaks into houses with his tongue
and picks pockets with his flattery. His face is brazen that he cannot blush, and his hands
are limed to catch hold what he can light on. His tongue is a bell (but not of the church,
except it be the devil's) to call his parish to his service. He is sometimes a pander to carry
messages of ill meetings, and perhaps hath some eloquence to persuade sweetness in sin. He
is like a dog at a door while the devils dance in the chamber, or like a spider in the house-top
that lives on the poison below. He is the hate of honesty and the abuse of beauty, the spoil
of youth and the misery of age. In sum, he is a danger in a court, a cheater in a city, a jester
in the country, and a jackanapes in all.

A DRUNKARD.

A drunkard is a known adjective, for he cannot stand alone by himself; yet in his greatest
weakness a great trier of strength, whether health or sickness will have the upper hand in
a surfeit. He is a spectacle of deformity and a shame of humanity, a view of sin and a grief
of nature. He is the annoyance of modesty and the trouble of civility, the spoil of wealth
and the spite of reason. He is only the brewer's agent and the alehouse benefactor, the beggar's
companion and the constable's trouble. He is his wife's woe, his children's sorrow, his neighbours'
scoff, and his own shame. In sum, he is a tub of swill, a spirit of sleep, a picture of a beast,
and a monster of a man.

A COWARD.

A coward is the child of fear. He was begotten in cold blood, when Nature had much ado to make
up a creature like a man. His life is a kind of sickness, which breeds a kind of palsy in the
joints, and his death the terror of his conscience, with the extreme weakness of his faith.
He loves peace as his life, for he fears a sword in his soul. If he cut his finger he looketh
presently for the sign, and if his head ache he is ready to make his will. A report of a cannon
strikes him flat on his face, and a clap of thunder makes him a strange metamorphosis. Rather
than he will fight he will be beaten, and if his legs will help him he will put his arms to
no trouble. He makes love commonly with his purse, and brags most of his maidenhead. He will
not marry but into a quiet family, and not too fair a wife, to avoid quarrels. If his wife
frown upon him he sighs, and if she give him an unkind word he weeps. He loves not the horns
of a bull nor the paws of a bear, and if a dog bark he will not come near the house. If he
be rich he is afraid of thieves, and if he be poor he will be slave to a beggar. In sum, he
is the shame of manhood, the disgrace of nature, the scorn of reason, and the hate of honour.

AN HONEST POOR MAN.

An honest poor man is the proof of misery, where patience is put to the trial of her strength
to endure grief without passion, in starving with concealed necessity, or standing in the adventures
of charity. If he be married, want rings in his ears and woe watereth his eyes. If single,
he droppeth with the shame of beggary, or dies with the passion of penury. Of the rich he is
shunned like infection, and of the poor learns but a heart-breaking profession. His bed is
the earth and the heaven is his canopy, the sun is his summer's comfort and the moon is his
winter candle. His sighs are the notes of his music, and his song is like the swan before her
death. His study, his patience; and his exercise, prayer: his diet the herbs of the earth,
and his drink the water of the river. His travel is the walk of the woful and his horse Bayard
of ten toes: his apparel but the clothing of nakedness, and his wealth but the hope of heaven.
He is a stranger in the world, for no man craves his acquaintance; and his funeral is without
ceremony, when there is no mourning for the miss of him: yet may he be in the state of election
and in the life of love, and more rich in grace than the greatest of the world. In sum, he
is the grief of Nature, the sorrow of reason, the pity of wisdom, and the charge of charity.

A JUST MAN.

A just man is the child of truth, begotten by virtue and kindness; when Nature in the temper
of the spirit made even the balance of indifference. His eye is clear from blindness and his
hand from bribery, his will from wilfulness and his heart from wickedness; his word and deed
are all one; his life shows the nature of his love, his care is the charge of his conscience,
and his comfort the assurance of his salvation. In the seat of justice he is the grace of the
law, and in the judgment of right the honour of reason. He fears not the power of authority
to equal justice with mercy, and joys but in the judgment of grace, to see the execution of
justice. His judgment is worthy of honour, and his wisdom is gracious in truth. His honour
is famous in virtue, and his virtue is precious in example. In sum, he is a spirit of understanding,
a brain of knowledge, a heart of wisdom, and a soul of blessedness.

A REPENTANT SINNER.

A repentant sinner is the child of grace, who, being born for service of God, makes no reckoning
of the mastership of the world, yet doth he glorify God in the beholding of His creatures,
and in giving praise to His holy name in the admiration of His workmanship. He is much of the
nature of an angel who, being sent into the world but to do the will of his Master, is ever
longing to be at home with his fellows. He desires nothing but that is necessary, and delighteth
in nothing that is transitory; but contemplates more than he can conceive, and meditates only
upon the word of the Almighty. His senses are the tirers of his spirit, while in the course
of nature his soul can find no rest. He shakes off the rags of sin, and is clothed with the
robe of virtue. He puts off Adam, and puts on Christ. His heart is the anvil of truth, where
the brain of his wisdom beats the thoughts of his mind till they be fit for the service of
his Maker. His labour is the travail of love, by the rule of grace to find the highway to heaven.
His fear is greater than his love of the world, and his love is greater than his fear of God.
In sum, he is in the election of love, in the books of life, an angel incarnate and a blessed
creature.

A REPROBATE.

A reprobate is the child of sin who, being born for the service of the devil, cares not what
villainy he does in the world. His wit is always in a maze, for his courses are ever out of
order; and while his will stands for his wisdom, the best that falls out of him is a fool.
He betrays the trust of the simple, and sucks out the blood of the innocent. His breath is
the fume of blasphemy, and his tongue the firebrand of hell His desires are the destruction
of the virtuous, and his delights are the traps to damnation. He bathes in the blood of murder,
and sups up the broth of iniquity. He frighteth the eyes of the godly, and disturbeth the hearts
of the religious. He marreth the wits of the wise, and is hateful to the souls of the gracious.
In sum, he is an inhuman creature, a fearful companion, a man-monster, and a devil incarnate.

AN OLD MAN.

An old man is the declaration of time in the defect of Nature, and the imperfection of sense
in the use of reason. He is in the observation of Time, a calendar of experience; but in the
power of action, he is a blank among lots. He is the subject of weakness, the agent of sickness,
the displeasure of life, and the forerunner of death. He is twice a child and half a man, a
living picture, and a dying creature. He is a blown bladder that is only stuffed with wind,
and a withered tree that hath lost the sap of the root, or an old lute with strings all broken,
or a ruined castle that is ready to fall. He is the eyesore of youth and the jest of love,
and in the fulness of infirmity the mirror of misery. Yet in the honour of wisdom he may be
gracious in gravity, and in the government of justice deserve the honour of reverence. Yea,
his word may be notes for the use of reason, and his actions examples for the imitation of
discretion. In sum, in whatsoever estate he is but as the snuff of a candle, that pink it ever
so long it will out at last.

A YOUNG MAN.

A young man is the spring of time, when nature in her pride shows her beauty to the world.
He is the delight of the eye and the study of the mind, the labour of instruction and the pupil
of reason. His wit is in making or marring, his wealth in gaining or losing, his honour in
advancing or declining, and his life in abridging or increasing. He is a bloom that either
is blasted in the bud or grows to a good fruit, or a bird that dies in the nest or lives to
make use of her wings. He is a colt that must have a bridle ere he be well managed, and a falcon
that must be well maned or he will never be reclaimed. He is the darling of nature and the
charge of reason, the exercise of patience and the hope of charity. His exercise is either
study or action, and his study either knowledge or pleasure. His disposition gives a great
note of his generation, and yet his breeding may either better or worse him, though to wish
a blackamoor white be the loss of labour, and what is bred in the bone will never out of the
flesh. In sum, till experience have seasoned his understanding, he is rather a child than a
man, a prey of flattery or a praise of providence, in the way of grace to prove a saint, or
in the way of sin to grow a devil.

A HOLY MAN.

A holy man is the chiefest creature in the workmanship of the world. He is the highest in the
election of love, and the nearest to the image of the human nature of his Maker. He is served
of all the creatures in the earth, and created but for the service of his Creator. He is capable
of the course of nature, and by the rule of observation finds the art of reason. His senses
are but servants to his spirit, which is guided by a power above himself. His time is only
known to the eye of the Almighty, and what he is in his most greatness is as nothing but in
His mercy. He makes law by the direction of life, and lives but in the mercy of love. He treads
upon the face of the earth till in the same substance he be trod upon, though his soul that
gave life to his senses live in heaven till the resurrection of his flesh. He hath an eye to
look upward towards grace, while labour is only the punishment of sin. His faith is the hand
of his soul, which layeth hold on the promise of mercy. His patience is the tenure of the possession
of his soul, his charity the rule of his life, and his hope the anchor of his salvation. His
study is the state of obedience, and his exercise the continuance of prayer; his life but a
passage to a better, and his death the rest of his labours. His heart is a watch to his eye,
his wit a door to his mouth, his soul a guard to his spirit, and his limbs are but labourers
for his body. In sum, he is ravished with divine love, hateful to the nature of sin, troubled
with the vanities of the world, and longing for his joy but in heaven.

GEOFFREY MINSHULL.

After "The Good and the Bad" published in 1616, came, in 1618, "Essays and Characters of a
Prison and Prisoners, by G. M. of Grayes Inn, Gent." G.M. signed his name in full--Geffray
Minshul--after the Dedication to his uncle, Mr. Matthew Mainwaring of Nantwich, Cheshire, and
he dates from the King's Bench Prison. Philip Bliss found record in a History of Nantwich of
a monument there in St. Mary's Church, erected by Geoffrey Minshull of Stoke, Esq., to the
memory of his ancestors. He quotes also from Geoffrey Minshull's Characters the folloiuing
passage from the Dedication, and the Character of a Prisoner.

FROM THE DEDICATION OF "ESSAYS AND CHARACTERS OF A PRISON AND PRISONERS."

"Since my coming into this prison, what with the strangeness of the place and strictness of
my liberty, I am so transported that I could not follow that study wherein I took great delight
and chief pleasure, and to spend my time idly would but add more discontentments to my troubled
breast, and being in this chaos of discontentments, fantasies must arise, which will bring
forth the fruits of an idle brain, for e malis minimum. It is far better to give some account
of time, though to little purpose, than none at all. To which end I gathered a handful of essays,
and few characters of such things as by my own experience I could say Probatum est: not that
thereby I should either please the reader, or show exquisiteness of invention, or curious style;
seeing what I write of is but the child of sorrow, bred by discontentments and nourished up
with misfortunes, to whose help melancholy Saturn gave his judgment, the night-bird her invention,
and the ominous raven brought a quill taken from his own wing, dipped in the ink of misery,
as chief aiders in this architect of sorrow."

A CHARACTER OF A PRISONER. His greatest grief is that his credit was so good and now no better.
His land is drawn within the compass of a sheep's skin, and his own hand the fornication that
bars him of entrance: he is fortune's tossing-ball, an object that would make mirth melancholy:
to his friends an abject, and a subject of nine days' wonder in every barber's shop, and a
mouthful of pity (that he had no better fortune) to midwives and talkative gossips; and all
the content that this transitory life can give him seems but to flout him, in respect the restraint
of liberty bars the true use. To his familiars he is like a plague, whom they dare scarce come
nigh for fear of infection; he is a monument ruined by those which raised him, he spends the
day with a hei mihi! væ miserum! and the night with a nullis est medicabilis herbis.

HENRY PARROT [?].

In 1626--year of the death of Francis Bacon--appeared "Cures for the Itch; Characters, Epigrams,
Epitaphs by H. P." with the motto "Scalpat qui Tangitur." H. P. was read by Philip Bliss into
Henry Parrot, who published a collection of epigrams in 1613, as "Laquei Ridiculosi, or Springes
for Woodcocks."

A SCOLD

Is a much more heard of, than least desired to be seen or known, she-kind of serpent; the venomed
sting of whose poisonous tongue, worse than the biting of a scorpion, proves more infectious
far than can be cured. She's of all other creatures most untameablest, and covets more the
last word in scolding than doth a combater the last stroke for victory. She loudest lifts it
standing at her door, bidding, with exclamation, flat defiance to any one says black's her
eye. She dares appear before any justice, nor is least daunted with the sight of constable,
nor at worst threatenings of a cucking-stool. There's nothing mads or moves her more to outrage
than but the very naming of a wisp, or if you sing or whistle when she is scolding. If any
in the interim chance to come within her reach, twenty to one she scratcheth him by the face;
or do but offer to hold her hands, she'll presently begin to cry out murder. There's nothing
pacifies her but a cup of sack, which taking in full measure of digestion, she presently forgets
all wrongs that's done her, and thereupon falls straight a-weeping. Do but entreat her with
fair words, or flatter her, she then confesseth all her imperfections, and lays the guilt upon
her maid. Her manner is to talk much in her sleep, what wrongs she hath endured of that rogue
her husband, whose hap may be in time to die a martyr; and so I leave them. She's any good
man's better second self, the very mirror of true constant modesty, the careful housewife of
frugality, and dearest object of man's heart's felicity. She commands with mildness, rules
with discretion, lives in repute, and ordereth all things that are good or necessary. She's
her husband's solace, her house's ornament, her children's succour, and her servant's comfort.
She's a blessing given from God to man, a sweet companion in his affliction, and joint-copartner
upon all occasions. She's (to conclude) earth's chiefest paragon, and will be, when she dies,
heaven's dearest creature. There was an "R. M." who wrote from the coast of Guiana in November
1817 "Newes of Sir W. Raleigh. With the true Description of Guiana: as also relation of the
excellent Government, and much hope of the prosperity of the Voyage. Sent from a gentleman
of his Fleet (R. M.) to a most especiall Friend of his in London. From the River of Caliana
on the Coast of Guiana, Novemb. 17, 1617," published in 1618. The Characters of Persons and
Trades in "Micrologia" are: a Fantastic Tailor, a Player, a Shoemaker, a Ropemaker, a Smith,
a Tobacconist, a Cunning Woman, a Cobbler, a Tooth-drawer, a Tinker, a Fiddler, a Cunning Horse-Courser;
and of Places, Bethlem, Ludgate, Bridewell, Newgate. He is much like the counters in arithmetic,
and may stand one while for a king, another while a beggar, many times as a mute or cipher.
Sometimes he represents that which in his life he scarce practises--to be an honest man. To
the point, he oft personates a rover, and therein conies nearest to himself. If his action
prefigure passion, he raves, rages, and protests much by his painted heavens, and seems in
the height of this fit ready to pull Jove out of the garret where perchance he lies leaning
on his elbows, or is employed to make squibs and crackers to grace the play. His audience are
oftentimes judicious, but his chief admirers are commonly young wanton chambermaids, who are
so taken with his posture and gay clothes, they never come to be their own women after. He
exasperates men's enormities in public view, and tells them their faults on the stage, not
as being sorry for them, but rather wishes still he might find more occasions to work on. He
is the general corrupter of spirits yet untainted, inducing them by gradation to much lascivious
depravity. He is (for the most part) a notable hypocrite, seeming what he is not, and is indeed
what he seems not.

           *         *          *          *          *

In 1631 "Whimzies, or, A new Cast of Characters" inscribed to Sir Alexander Radcliffe by one
who signed his dedication Clitus Alexandrinus, gave twenty-four Characters, of which this of
the maker of a Courant or news sheet is one:--

A CORRANTO-COINER

Is a state newsmonger; and his own genius is his intelligencer. His mint goes weekly, and he
coins money by it. Howsoever, the more intelligent merchants do jeer him, the vulgar do admire
him, holding his novels oracular; and these are usually sent for tokens or intermissive courtesies
betwixt city and country. He holds most constantly one form or method of discourse. He retains
some military words of art, which he shoots at random; no matter where they hit they cannot
wound any. He ever leaves some passages doubtful, as if they were some more intimate secrecies
of state, closing his sentence abruptly with--hereafter you shall hear more. Which words, I
conceive, he only useth as baits, to make the appetite of the reader more eager in his next
week's pursuit fora more satisfying labour. Some general-erring relations he picks up, as crumbs
or fragments, from a frequented ordinary; of which shreds he shapes a coat to fit any credulous
fool that will wear it. You shall never observe him make any reply in places of public concourse;
he ingenuously acknowledges himself to be more bounden to the happiness of a retentive memory,
than either ability of tongue or pregnancy of conceit. He carries his table-book still about
with him, but dares not pull it out publicly. Yet no sooner is the table drawn than he turns
notary, by which means he recovers the charge of his ordinary. Paul's is his walk in winter,
Moorfields in summer, where the whole discipline, designs, projects, and exploits of the States,
Netherlands, Poland, Switzer, Crimchan and all, are within the compass of one quadrangle walk
most judiciously and punctually discovered. But long he must not walk, lest he make his news-press
stand. Thanks to his good invention, he can collect much out of a very little; no matter though
more experienced judgments disprove him, he is anonymous, and that will secure him. He writes
as if he would do some mischief, yet the charge of his shot is but paper. He will sometimes
start in his sleep, as one affrighted with visions, which I can impute to no other cause but
to the terrible skirmishes which he discoursed of in the daytime. He has now tied himself apprentice
to the trade of minting, and must weekly perform his task, or (beside the loss which accrues
to himself) he disappoints a number of no small fools, whose discourse, discipline, and discretion
is drilled from his state-service. These you shall know by their Monday's mornings question,
a little before exchange time: Stationer, have you any news? For his relations he stands resolute,
whether they become approved or evinced for untruths; which if they be, he has contracted with
his face never to blush for the matter. He holds especial concurrence with two philosophical
sects, though he be ignorant of the tenets of either: in the collection of his observations
he is peripatetical, for he walks circularly; in the digestion of his relations he is stoical,
and sits regularly. He has an alphabetical table of all the chief commanders, generals, leaders,
provincial towns, rivers, ports, creeks, with other fitting materials to furnish his imaginary
building. Whisperings, mutterings, and bare suppositions are sufficient grounds for the authority
of his relations. He is the very landscape of our age. He is all air; his ear always open to
all reports, which, how incredible soever, must pass for current and find vent, purposely to
get him current money and delude the vulgar. Yet our best comfort is, his chimeras live not
long; a week is the longest in the city, and after their arrival, little longer in the country,
which past they melt like butter, or match a pipe, and so burn. He honours nothing with a more
endeared observance, nor hugs ought with more intimacy, than antiquity, which he expresseth
even in his clothes. I have known some love fish best that smelled of the pannier; and the
like humour reigns in him, for he loves that apparel best that has a taste of the broker. Some
have held him for a scholar, but trust me such are in a palpable error, for he never yet understood
so much Latin as to construe Gallo-Belgicus. For his library (his own continuations excepted),
it consists of very few or no books. He holds himself highly engaged to his invention if it
can purchase him victuals; for authors, he never converseth with them, unless they walk in
Paul's. For his discourse it is ordinary, yet he will make you a terrible repetition of desperate
commanders, unheard-of exploits, intermixing withal his own personal service. But this is not
in all companies, for his experience hath sufficiently informed him in this principle--that
as nothing works more on the simple than things strange and incredibly rare, so nothing discovers
his weakness more among the knowing and judicious than to insist, by way of discourse, on reports
above conceit. Amongst these, therefore, he is as mute as a fish. But now imagine his lamp
(if he be worth one) to be nearly burnt out, his inventing genius wearied and footsore with
ranging over so many unknown regions, and himself wasted with the fruitless expense of much
paper, resigning his place of weekly collections to another, whom, in hope of some little share,
he has to his stationer recommended, while he lives either poorly respected or dies miserably
suspended. The rest I end with his own close:--Next week you shall hear more.

The other characters in "Whimzies" were an Almanac-maker, a Ballad-monger, a Decoy, an Exchange-man,
a Forester, a Gamester, an Hospital-man, a Jailer, a Keeper, a Launderer, a Metal-man, a Neater,
an Ostler, a Postmaster, a Quest-man, a Ruffian, a Sailor, a Traveller, an Under-Sheriff, a
Wine-Soaker, a Xantippean, a Jealous Neighbour, a Zealous Brother. The collection was enlarged
by addition under separate title-page of "A Cater-Character, thrown out of a box by an Experienced
Gamester"-which gave Characters of an Apparitor, a Painter, a Pedlar, and a Piper.

JOHN MILTON,

when he was at college, ventured down among the Character-writers in his two pieces on the
University Carrier. Thomas Hobson had been for sixty years carrier between Cambridge and the
Bull Inn, Bishopsgate Street, London. He was a very well-known Cambridge character. Steele,
in No. 509 of the "Spectator" ascribed to him the origin of the proverbial phrase, Hobson's Choice.

In the spring of 1630 the Plague in Cambridge caused colleges to be closed, and among other
precautions against spread of infection, Hobson the Carrier was forbidden to go to and fro
between Cambridge and London. At the end of the year, after six or seven, months of forced
inaction, Hobson sickened; and he died on the first of January, at the age of eighty-six, leaving
his family amply provided for, and money for the maintenance of the town conduit. At the Bull
Inn in London there used to be a portrait of him with a money-bag under his arm.

Character-writing being in fashion many a character of the University Carrier was written,
no doubt, by Cambridge men after Hobson's death at the beginning of the year 1631 (new style).
And these were Milton's. Their unlikeness to other work of his lies in their likeness to a
form of literature which was but fashion of the day, and having travelled out of sight of its
old starting-point and forgotten where its true goal lay, had gone astray, and often by idolatry
of wit sinned against wisdom.

ON THE UNIVERSITY CARRIER,

Who sickened in the time of his Vacancy, being forbid to go to London
by reason of the Plague.
   If any ask for him, it shall be said,
   "Hobson has supped, and's newly gone to bed."

ANOTHER ON THE SAME.

   Here lieth one that did most truly prove
   That he could never die while he could move;
   So hung his destiny, never to rot
   While he might still jog on and keep his trot;
   Made of sphere-metal, never to decay
   Until his revolution was at stay.
   Time numbers motion, yet (without a crime
   'Gainst old truth) motion numbered out his time;
   And, like an engine moved with wheel and weight,
   His principles being ceased, he ended straight.
   Rest, that gives all men life, gave him his death,
   And too much breathing put him out of breath;
   Nor were it contradiction to affirm
   Too long vacation hastened on his term.
   Merely to drive the time away he sickened,
   Fainted, and died, nor would with ale be quickened.
   "Nay," quoth he, on his swooning-bed outstretched,
   "If I mayn't carry, sure I'll ne'er be fetched,
   But vow, though the cross doctors all stood hearers,
   For one carrier put down to make six bearers."
   Ease was his chief disease; and, to judge right,
   He died for heaviness that his cart went light.
   His leisure told him that his time was come,
   And lack of load made his life burdensome,
   That even to his last breath (there be that say't)
   As he were pressed to death, he cried. "More weight!"
   But, had his doings lasted as they were,
   He had been an immortal carrier.
   Obedient to the moon he spent his date
   In course reciprocal, and had his fate
   Linked to the mutual flowing of the seas;
   Yet (strange to think) his wain was his increase.
   His letters are delivered all and gone,
   Only remains the superscription.

How very sure we should all be that Milton did not write these pieces, if he had not given
them a place among his published works! Returning to the crowd of Character-writers we find
in 1631, the year of Milton's writing upon Hobson,

WYE SALTONSTALL,

author of "Pictures Loquentes, or Pictures drawn forth in Characters. With a Poeme of a Maid"
The poem of a Maid was, of course, suggested by the fact that Sir Thomas Overbury's Characters
had joined to them the poem of a Wife. There was a second edition in 1635. Saltonstall's Characters
were the World, an Old Man, a Woman, a Widow, a True Lover, a Country Bride, a Ploughman, a
Melancholy Man, a Young Heir, a Scholar in the University, a Lawyers Clerk, a Townsman in Oxford,
an Usurer, a Wandering Rogue, a Waterman, a Shepherd, a Jealous Man, a Chamberlain, a Maid,
a Bailey, a Country Fair, a Country Ale-house, a Horse Race, a Farmer's Daughter, a Keeper,
a Gentleman's House in the Country; to which he added in the second edition, a Fine Dame, a
Country Dame, a Gardener, a Captain, a Poor Village, a Merry Man, a Scrivener, the Term, a
Mower, a Happy Man, an Arrant Knave, and an Old Waiting Gentlewoman. It is the soul of the
year, and makes it quick, which before was dead. Innkeepers gape for it as earnestly as shell-fish
do for salt water after a low ebb. It sends forth new books into the world, and replenishes
Paul's Walk with fresh company, where Quid novi? is their first salutation, and the weekly
news their chief discourse. The taverns are painted against the term, and many a cause is argued
there and tried at that bar, where you are adjudged to pay the costs and charges, and so dismissed
with "welcome, gentlemen." Now the city puts her best side outward, and a new play at the Blackfriars
is attended on with coaches. It keeps watermen from sinking, and helps them with many a fare
voyage to Westminster. Tour choice beauties come up to it only to see and be seen, and to learn
the newest fashion, and for some other recreations. Now many that have been long sick and crazy
begins to stir and walk abroad, especially if some young prodigals come to town, who bring
more money than wit. Lastly, the term is the joy of the city, a dear friend to countrymen,
and is never more welcome than after a long vacation.

We have also, in 1632, "London and Country Carbonadoed and Quartered into Several Characters"
by Donald Lupton; in 1633, the "Character of a Gentleman" appended to Brathwaif's "English
Gentleman;" in 1634, "A strange Metamorphosis of Man, transformed into a Wilderness, Deciphered
in Characters" of which this is a specimen:--

THE HORSE

Is a creature made, as it were, in wax. When Nature first framed him, she took a secret complacence
in her work. He is even her masterpiece in irrational things, borrowing somewhat of all things
to set him forth. For example, his slick bay coat he took from the chestnut; his neck from
the rainbow, which perhaps make him rain so well. His mane belike he took from Pegasus, making
him a hobby to make this a complete jennet, which mane he wears so curled, much after the women's
fashions now-a-days;--this I am sure of, howsoever, it becomes them, [and] it sets forth our
jennet well. His legs he borrowed of the hart, with his swiftness, which makes him a true courser
indeed. The stars in his forehead he fetched from heaven, which will not be much missed, there
being so many. The little head he hath, broad breast, fat buttock, and thick tail are properly
his own, for he knew not where to get him better. If you tell him of the horns he wants to
make him most complete, he scorns the motion, and sets them at his heel. He is well shod, especially
in the upper leather, for as for his soles, they are much at reparation, and often fain to
be removed. Nature seems to have spent an apprenticeship of years to make you such a one, for
it is full seven years ere he comes to this perfection, and be fit for the saddle: for then
(as we), it seems to come to the years of discretion, when he will show a kind of rational
judgment with him, and if you set an expert rider on his back, you shall see how sensible they
will talk together, as master and scholar. If the game be up once, and the hounds in chase,
you shall see how he will prick up his ears straight, and tickle at the sport as much as his
rider shall, and laugh so loud, that if there be many of them, they will even drown the rural
harmony of the dogs. When he travels, of all inns he loves best the sign of the silver bell,
because likely there he fares best, especially if he come the first and get the prize. He carries
his ears upright, nor seldom ever lets them fall till they be cropped off, and after that,
as in despite, will never wear them more. His tail is so essential to him, that if he lose
it once he is no longer a horse, but ever styled a curtali. To conclude, he is a blade of Vulcan's
forging, made for Mars of the best metal, and the post of Fame to carry her tidings through
the world, who, if he knew his own strength, would shrewdly put for the monarchy of our wilderness.

     *       *       *       *       *

Then there-were separate Characters, as "of a Projector" (1642); "of an Oxford Incendiary"
(1645); and in 1664, "A New Anatomic, or Character of a Christian or Roundhead, expressing
his Description, Excellenrie, Happiness, and Innocencie. Wherein may appear how far this blind
World is mistaken in their unjust Censures of him." Several Characters were included in Lord
North's "Forest of Varieties" published in 1645. Fourteen Characters, some of individual persons,
were in the "Characters and Elegies, by Sir Francis Wortley, Knight and Baronet" published
in 1646. The author was son of Sir Richard Wortley of Wortley in Yorkshire. He was a good royalist,
was taken prisoner in the civil wars, and wrote his Characters in the Tower. They were these:--The
Character of his Roy all Majestie; the Character of the Queene's Majestie; the Hopeful Prince;
a true Character of the illustrious James, Duke of York; the Character of a Noble General;
a true English Protestant; an Antinomian, or Anabaptistical Independent; a Jesuit; the true
Character of a Northern Lady, as she is Wife, Mother, and Sister; the Politique Neuter; the
Citie Paragon; a Sharking Committee-man; Britannicus his Pedigree --afatall Prediction of his
end; and last, the Phoenix of the Court.

In 1646, T. F., who is named by interlineation on his title-page among the King's Pamphlets,
T. Ford, servant to Mr. Sam. Man, produced the "Times Anatomized, in several Characters." These
were: A Good King, Rebellion, an Honest Subject, an Hypocritical Convert of the Times, a Soldier
of Fortune, a Discontented Person, an Ambitious Man, the Vulgar, Error, Truth, a Self-seeker,
Pamphlets, an Envious Man, True Valour, Time, a Neuter, a Turn-Coat, a Moderate Man, a Corrupt
Committee-man, a Sectary, War, Peace, a Drunkard, a Novice, Preacher, a Scandalous Preacher,
a Grave Divine, a Self-Conceited Man, Religion, Death. The echoes, whereby what is done in
part of the kingdom, is heard all over. They are like the mushrooms, sprung up in a night,
and dead in a day; and such is the greediness of men's natures (in these Athenian days) of
new, that they will rather feign than want it.

So the tide ran on. In 1647 there was "The Character of an Agitator," and also John Cleveland's
Character of a London Diurnal.

JOHN CLEVELAND,

The Cavalier poet, born at Loitghborough in Leicestershire in 1613, son of an usher in a free
school there, was sent to Milton's College, Christ's, at Cambridge in 1627, when he was fifteen
years old. Milton had gone to Christ's two years before, but at the age of seventeen. Cleveland
left Christ's College in 1631, when he took his B.A. degree, and went to St. John's, of which
he was elected a Fellow in March 1634. He proceeded M.A. in 1634, and studied afterwards both
law and physics, living for nine years at Cambridge. John Cleveland was ejected from his position
as Fellow and Tutor by the Parliamentary visitors in February 1645 (new style), and was sent
to Newark as judge advocate under Sir Richard Willis, the Governor. After the surrender at
Newark, Cleveland depended upon friendship of cavaliers who gave him hospitality for his witty
companionship, and the good scholarship that made him valuable as a tutor to their sons, Cleveland,
who lives among our poets, wrote in the first days of his trouble these three prose Characters:--

THE CHARACTER OF A COUNTRY COMMITTEE-MAN, WITH THE EAR-MARK. OF A SEQUESTRATOR.

A committee-man by his name should be one that is possessed, there is number enough in it to
make an epithet for legion. He is persona in concreto (to borrow the solecism of a modern statesman).
You may translate it by the Red Bull phrase, and speak as properly, Enter seven devils solus.
It is a well-trussed title that contains both the number and the beast; for a committee-man
is a noun of multitude, he must be spelled with figures, like Antichrist wrapped in a pair-royal
of sixes. Thus the name is as monstrous as the man, a complex notion of the same lineage with
accumulative treason. For his office it is the Heptarchy, or England's fritters; it is the
broken meat of a crumbling prince, only the royalty is greater; for it is here, as in the miracle
of loaves, the voider exceeds the bill of fare. The Pope and he ring the changes; here is the
plurality of crowns to one head, join them together and there is a harmony in discord. The
triple-headed turnkey of heaven with the triple-headed porter of hell. A committee-man is the
relics of regal government, but, like holy relics, he outbulks the substance whereof he is
a remnant. There is a score of kings in a committee, as in the relics of the cross there is
the number of twenty. This is the giant with the hundred hands that wields the sceptre; the
tyrannical bead-roll by which the kingdom prays backward, and at every curse drops a committee-man.
Let Charles be waived whose condescending clemency aggravates the defection, and make Nero
the question, better a Nero than a committee. There is less execution by a single bullet than
by case-shot.

Now a committee-man is a parti-coloured officer. He must be drawn like Janus with cross and
pile in his countenance, as he relates to the soldiers or faces about to his fleecing the country.
Look upon him martially, and he is a justice of war, one that hath bound his Dalton up in buff,
and will needs be of the Quorum to the best commanders. He is one of Mars his lay-elders; he
shares in the government, though a Nonconformist to his bleeding rubric. He is the like sectary
in arms, as the Platonic is in love, keeps a fluttering in discourse, but proves a haggard
in the action. He is not of the soldiers and yet of his flock. It is an emblem of the golden
age (and such indeed he makes it to him) when so tame a pigeon may converse with vultures.
Methinks a committee hanging about a governor, and bandileers dangling about a furred alderman,
have an anagram resemblance. There is no syntax between a cap of maintenance and a helmet.
Who ever knew an enemy routed by a grand jury and a Billa vera? It is a left-handed garrison
where their authority perches; but the more preposterous the more in fashion, the right hand
fights while the left rules the reins. The truth is, the soldier and the gentleman are like
Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, one fights at all adventures to purchase the other the government
of the island. A committee-man properly should be the governor's mattress to fit his truckle,
and to new string him with sinews of war; for his chief use is to raise assessments in the
neighbouring wapentake.

The country people being like an Irish cow that will not give down her milk unless she see
her calf before her, hence it is he is the garrison's dry nurse; he chews their contribution
before he feeds them, so the poor soldiers live like Trochilus by picking the teeth of this
sacred crocodile.

So much for his warlike or ammunition face, which is so preter-natural that it is rather a
vizard than a face; Mars in him hath but a blinking aspect, his face of arms is like his coat,
partie per pale, soldier and gentleman much of a scantling.

Now enter his taxing and deglubing face, a squeezing look like that of Vespasianus, as if he
were bleeding over a close stool.

Take him thus and he is in the inquisition of the purse an authentic gypsy, that nips your
bong with a canting ordinance; not a murdered fortune in all the country but bleeds at the
touch of this malefactor. He is the spleen of the body politic that swells itself to the consumption
of the whole. At first, indeed, he ferreted for the parliament, but since he hath got off his
cope he set up for himself. He lives upon the sins of the people, and that is a good standing
dish too. He verifies the axiom, lisdem nutritur ex quibus componitur; his diet is suitable
to his constitution. I have wondered often why the plundered countrymen should repair to him
for succour, certainly it is under the same notion, as one whose pockets are picked goes to
Moll Cutpurse, as the predominant in that faculty.

He outdives a Dutchman, gets a noble of him that was never worth sixpence; for the poorest
do not escape, but Dutch-like he will be draining even in the driest ground. He aliens a delinquent's
estate with as little remorse as his other holiness gives away an heretic's kingdom, and for
the truth of the delinquency, both chapmen have as little share of infallibility. Lye is the
grand salad of arbitrary government, executor to the star-chamber and the high commission;
for those courts are not extinct, they survive in him like dollars changed into single money.
To speak the truth, he is the universal tribunal; for since these times all causes fall to
his cognisance, as in a great infection all diseases turn oft to the plague. It concerns our
masters the parliament to look about them; if he proceedeth at this rate the jack may come
to swallow the pike, as the interest often eats out the principal. As his commands are great,
so he looks for a reverence accordingly. He is punctual in exacting your hat, and to say right
his due, but by the same title as the upper garment is the vails of the executioner. There
was a time when such cattle would hardly have been taken upon suspicion for men in office,
unless the old proverb were renewed, that the beggars make a free company, and those their
wardens. You may see what it is to hang together. Look upon them severally, and you cannot
but fumble for some threads of charity. But oh, they are termagants in conjunction! like fiddlers
who are rogues when they go single, and joined in consort, gentlemen musicianers. I care not
much if I untwist my committee-man, and so give him the receipt of this grand Catholicon.

Take a state martyr, one that for his good behaviour hath paid the excise of his ears, so suffered
captivity by the land-piracy of ship-money; next a primitive freeholder, one that hates the
king because he is a gentleman transgressing the Magna Charta of delving Adam. Add to these
a mortified bankrupt that helps out his false weights with some scruples of conscience, and
with his peremptory scales can doom his prince with a mene tekel. These with a new blue-stockinged
justice, lately made of a good basket-hilted yeoman, with a short-handed clerk tacked to the
rear of him to carry the knapsack of his understanding, together with two or three equivocal
sirs whose religion, like their gentility, is the extract of their acres; being therefore spiritual
because they are earthly; not forgetting the man of the law, whose corruption gives the Hogan
to the sincere Juncto. These are the simples of this precious compound; a kind of Dutch hotch-potch,
the Hogan Mogan committee-man.

The Committee-man hath a sideman, or rather a setter, hight a Sequestrator, of whom you may
say, as of the great Sultan's horse, where he treads the grass grows no more. He is the State's
cormorant, one that fishes for the public but feeds himself; the misery is he fishes without
the cormorant's property, a rope to strengthen the gullet and to make him disgorge. A sequestrator!
He is the devil's nut-hook, the sign with him is always in the clutches. There are more monsters
retain to him than to all the limbs in anatomy. It is strange physicians do not apply him to
the soles of the feet in a desperate fever, he draws far beyond pigeons. I hope some mountebank
will slice him and make the experiment. He is a tooth-drawer once removed; here is the difference,
one applauds the grinder the other the grist. Never till now could I verify the poet's description,
that the ravenous harpy had a human visage. Death himself cannot quit scores with him; like
the demoniac in the gospel, he lives among tombs, nor is all the holy water shed by widows
and orphans a sufficient exorcism to dispossess him. Thus the cat sucks your breath and the
fiend your blood; nor can the brotherhood of witchfinders, so sagely instituted with all their
terror, wean the familiars.

But once more to single out my embossed committee-man; his fate (for I know you would fain
see an end of him) is either a whipping audit, when he is wrung in the withers by a committee
of examinations, and so the sponge weeps out the moisture which he had soaked before; or else
he meets his passing peal in the clamorous mutiny of a gut-foundered garrison, for the hedge-sparrow
will be feeding the cuckoo till he mistake his commons and bites off her head. Whatever it
is, it is within his desert, for what is observed of some creatures that at the same time they
trade in productions three stories high, suckling the first, big with the second, and clicketing
for the third: a committee-man is the counterpoint, his mischief is superfoetation, a certain
scale of destruction, for he ruins the father, beggars the son, and strangles the hope of all
posterity.

THE CHARACTER OF A DIURNAL-MAKER. It is like overreach of language, when every thin tinder-cloaked
quack must be called a doctor; when a clumsy cobbler usurps the attribute of our English peers,
and is vamped a translator. List him a writer and you smother Geoffrey in swabber-slops; the
very name of dabbler oversets him; he is swallowed up in the phrase, like Sir S.L. [Samuel
Luke] in a great saddle, nothing to be seen but the giddy feather in his crown. They call him
a Mercury, but he becomes the epithet like the little negro mounted upon an elephant, just
such another blot rampant. He has not stuffings sufficient for the reproach of a scribbler,
but it hangs about him like an old wife's skin when the flesh hath forsaken her, lank and loose.
He defames a good title as well as most of our modern noblemen; those wens of greatness, the
body politic's most peccant humours blistered into lords. He hath so raw-boned a being that
however you render him he rubs it out and makes rags of the expression. Such an historian would
hardly pass muster with a Scotch stationer in a sieveful of ballads and godly books. He would
not serve for the breast-plate of a begging Grecian. The most cramped compendium that the age
hath seen since all learning hath been almost torn into ends, outstrips him by the head. I
have heard of puppets that could prattle in a play, but never saw of their writings before.
There goes a report of the Holland women that together with their children they are delivered
of a Sooterkin, not unlike to a rat, which some imagine to be the offspring of the stoves.
Not a worm that gnaws on the dull scalp of voluminous Holinshed, but at every meal devoured
more chronicle than his tribe amounts to. A marginal note of W. P. would serve for a winding-sheet
for that man's works, like thick-skinned fruits are all rind, fit for nothing but the author's
fate, to be pared in a pillory.

The cook who served up the dwarf in a pie (to continue the frolic) might have lapped up such
an historian as this in the bill of fare. He is the first tincture and rudiment of a writer,
dipped as yet in the preparative blue, like an almanac well-willer. He is the cadet of a pamphleteer,
the pedee of a romancer; he is the embryo of a history slinked before maturity. How should
he record the issues of time who is himself an abortive? I will not say but that he may pass
for an historian in Garbier's academy; he is much of the size of those knotgrass professors.
What a pitiful seminary was there projected; yet suitable enough to the present universities,
those dry nurses which the providence of the age has so fully reformed that they are turned
reformadoes. But that's no matter, the meaner the better. It is a maxim observable in these
days, that the only way to win the game is to play petty Johns. Of this number is the esquire
of the quill, for he hath the grudging of history and some yawnings accordingly. Writing is
a disease in him and holds like a quotidian, so 'tis his infirmity that makes him an author,
as Mahomet was beholding to the falling sickness to vouch him a prophet. That nice artificer
who filed a chain so thin and light that a flea could trail it (as if he had worked shorthand,
and taught his tools to cypher), did but contrive an emblem for this skipjack and his slight
productions.

Methinks the Turk should licence diurnals because he prohibits learning and books. A library
of diurnals is a wardrobe of frippery; 'tis a just idea of a Limbo of the infants. I saw one
once that could write with his toes, by the same token I could have wished he had worn his
copies for socks; 'tis he without doubt from whom the diurnals derive their pedigree, and they
have a birthright accordingly, being shuffled out at the bed's feet of history. To what infinite
numbers an historian would multiply should he crumble into elves of this profession? To supply
this smallness they are fain to join forces, so they are not singly but as the custom is in
a croaking committee. They tug at the pen like slaves at the oar, a whole bank together; they
write in the posture that the Swedes gave fire in, over one another's heads. It is said there
is more of them go to a suit of clothes than to a Britannicus; in this polygamy the clothes
breed and cannot determine whose issue is lawfully begotten.

And here I think it were not amiss to take a particular how he is accoutred, and so do by him
as he in his Siquis for the wall-eyed mare, or the crop flea-bitten, give you the marks of
the beast. I begin with his head, which is ever in clouts, as if the nightcap should make affidavit
that the brain was pregnant. To what purpose doth the Pia Mater lie in so dully in her white
formalities; sure she hath had hard labour, for the brows have squeezed for it, as you may
perceive by his buttered bon-grace that film of a demicastor; 'tis so thin and unctuous that
the sunbeams mistake it for a vapour, and are like to cap him; so it is right heliotrope, it
creaks in the shine and flaps in the shade; whatever it be I wish it were able to call in his
ears. There's no proportion between that head and appurtenances; those of all lungs are no
more fit for that small noddle of the circumcision than brass bosses for a Geneva Bible. In
what a puzzling neutrality is the poor soul that moves betwixt two such ponderous biases? His
collar is edged with a piece of peeping linen, by which he means a band; 'tis the forlorn of
his shirt crawling out of his neck; indeed it were time that his shirt were jogging, for it
has served an apprenticeship, and (as apprentices use) it hath learned its trade too, to which
effect 'tis marching to the papermill, and the next week sets up for itself in the shape of
a pamphlet. His gloves are the shavings of his hands, for he casts his skin like a cancelled
parchment. The itch represents the broken seals. His boots are the legacies of two black jacks,
and till he pawned the silver that the jacks were tipped with it was a pretty mode of boot-hose-tops.
For the rest of his habit he is a perfect seaman, a kind of tarpaulin, he being hanged about
with his coarse composition, those pole-davie papers.

But I must draw to an end, for every character is an anatomy lecture, and it fares with me
in this of the diurnal-maker, as with him that reads on a begged malefactor, my subject smells
before I have gone through with him; for a parting blow then. The word historian imports a
sage and solemn author, one that curls his brow with a sullen gravity, like a bull-necked Presbyter
since the army hath got him off his jurisdiction, who, Presbyter like, sweeps his breast with
a reverend beard, full of native moss-troopers; not such a squirting scribe as this that's
troubled with the rickets, and makes pennyworths of history. The college-treasury that never
had in bank above a Harry-groat, shut up there in a melancholy solitude, like one that is kept
to keep possession, had as good evidence to show for his title as he for an historian; so,
if he will needs be an historian, he is not cited in the sterling acceptation, but after the
rate of bluecaps' reckoning, an historian Scot. Now a Scotchman's tongue runs high fullams.
There is a cheat in his idiom, for the sense ebbs from the bold expression, like the citizen's
gallon, which the drawer interprets but half a pint. In sum, a diurnal-maker is the anti-mark
of an historian, he differs from him as a drill from a man, or (if you had rather have it in
the saints' gibberish) as a hinter doth from a holder-forth.

THE CHARACTER OF A LONDON DIURNAL. It would tire a Welshman to reckon up how many aps 'tis
removed from an annal; for it is of that extract, only of the younger house, like a shrimp
to a lobster. The Countess of Zealand was brought to bed of an almanac, as many children as
days in the year. It may be the legislative lady is of that lineage, so she spawns the diurnals,
and they at Westminster take them in adoption by the names of Scoticus, Civicus, Britannicus.
In the frontispiece of the old Beldam diurnal, like the contents of the chapter, sitteth the
House of Commons judging the twelve tribes of Israel. You may call them the kingdom's anatomy
before the weekly calendar; for such is a diurnal, the day of the month with what weather in
the commonwealth. It is taken for the pulse of the body politic, and the empiric divines of
the assembly, those spiritual dragooners, thumb it accordingly. Indeed it is a pretty synopsis,
and those grave rabbis (though in the point of Divinity) trade in no larger authors. The country-carrier,
when he buys it for the vicar, miscalls it the urinal; yet properly enough, for it casts the
water of the state ever since it staled blood.

It begins usually with an Ordinance, which is a law still born, dropped before quickened by
the royal assent. 'Tis one of the parliament's bye-blows, acts only being legitimate, and hath
no more sire than a Spanish jennet that is begotten by the wind.

Thus their militia, like its patron Mars, is the issue only of the mother, without the concourse
of royal Jupiter: yet law it is, if they vote it, in defiance to their fundamentals; like the
old sexton, who swore his clock went true, whatever the sun said to the contrary.

The next ingredient of a diurnal is plots, horrible plots, which with wonderful sagacity it
hunts dry-Coot, while they are yet in their causes, before materia prima can put on her smock.
How many such fits of the mother have troubled the kingdom; and for all Sir W.E. [William Earle]
looks like a man-midwife, not yet delivered of so much as a cushion? But actors must have properties;
and since the stages were voted down the only playhouse is at Westminster.

Suitable to their plots are their informers, skippers, and tailors, spaniels both for the land
and water. Good conscionable intelligence! For however Pym's bill may inflame the reckoning,
the honest vermin have not so much for lying as the public faith.

Thus a zealous botcher in Moorfields, while he was contriving some quirpocut of Church-Government,
by the help of his outlying ears and the Otacousticon of the spirit, discovered such a plot,
that Selden intends to combat antiquity, and maintain it was a tailor's goose that preserved
the capital.

I wonder my Lord of Canterbury is not once more all to be traitored, for dealing with the lions
to settle the Commission of Array in the Tower. It would do well to cramp the articles dormant,
besides the opportunity of reforming these beasts of the prerogative, and changing their profaner
names of Harry and Charles into Nehemiah and Eleazar.

Suppose a corn-cutter being to give little Isaac a cast of his office should fall to paring
his brows (mistaking the one end for the other, because he branches at both), this would be
a plot, and the next diurnal would furnish you with this scale of votes:--

Resolved upon the question, That this act of the corn-cutter was an absolute invasion of the
city's charter in the representative forehead of Isaac.

Resolved, That the evil counsellors about the corn-cutter are popishly affected and enemies
to the State.

Resolved, That there be a public thanksgiving for the great deliverance of Isaac's brow-antlers;
and a solemn covenant drawn up to defy the corn-cutter and all his works.

Thus the Quixotes of this age fight with the windmills of their own heads, quell monsters of
their own creation, make plots, and then discover them; as who fitter to unkennel the fox than
the terrier that is part of him?

In the third place march their adventures; the Roundheads' legends, the rebels' romance; stories
of a larger size than the ears of their sect, able to strangle the belief of a Solifidian.

I'll present them in their order. And first as a whiffler before the show enter Stamford, one
that trod the stage with the first, traversed the ground, made a leg and exit. The country
people took him for one that by order of the Houses was to dance a morrice through the west
of England. Well, he's a nimble gentleman; set him upon Banks his horse in a saddle rampant,
and it is a great question which part of the Centaur shows better tricks.

There was a vote passing to translate him with all his equipage into monumental gingerbread;
but it was crossed by the female committee alleging that the valour of his image would bite
their children by the tongues.

This cubit and half of commander, by the help of a diurnal, routed his enemies fifty miles
off. It's strange you'll say, and yet 'tis generally believed he would as soon do it at that
distance as nearer hand. Sure it was his sword for which the weapon-salve was invented; that
so wounding and healing (like loving correlates) might both work at the same removes. But the
squib is run to the end of the rope: room for the prodigy of valour. Madam Atropos in breeches,
Waller's knight-errantry; and because every mountebank must have his zany, throw him in Hazelrig
to set off his story. These two, like Bel and the Dragon, are always worshipped in the same
chapter; they hunt in couples, what one doth at the head, the other scores up at the heels.

Thus they kill a man over and over, as Hopkins and Sternhold murder the psalms with another
of the same; one chimes all in, and then the other strikes up as the saints-bell.

I wonder for how many lives my Lord Hopton took the lease of his body.

First Stamford slew him, then Waller outkilled that half a bar; and yet it is thought the sullen
corpse would scarce bleed were both these manslayers never so near it.

The same goes of a Dutch headsman, that he would do his office with so much ease and dexterity,
that the head after execution should stand upon the shoulders. Pray God Sir William be not
probationer for the place; for as if he had the like knack too, most of those whom the diurnal
hath slain for him, to us poor mortals seem untouched.

Thus these artificers of death can kill the man without wounding the body, like lightning,
that melts the sword and never singes the scabbard.

This is the William whose lady is the conqueror; this is the city's champion and the diurnal's
delight; he that cuckolds the general in his commission; for he stalks with Essex, and shoots
under his belly, because his Excellency himself is not charged there: yet in all this triumph
there is a whip and bell; translate but the scene to Roundway Down, there Hazelrig's lobsters
turned crabs and crawled backwards, there poor Sir William ran to his lady for an use of consolation.

With what face can they object to the king the bringing in of foreigners, when themselves entertain
such an army of Hebrews? This Cromwell is never so valorous as when he is making speeches for
the association, which nevertheless he doth somewhat ominously with his neck awry, holding
up his ear as if he expected Mahomet's pigeon to come and prompt him. He should be a bird of
prey too by his bloody beak; his nose is able to try a young eagle, whether she be lawfully
begotten. But all is not gold that glitters. What we wonder at in the rest of them is natural
to him to kill without bloodshed, for the most of his trophies are in a church window, when
a looking-glass would show him more superstition. He is so perfect a hater of images that he
hath defaced God's in his own countenance. If he deals with men, 'tis when he takes them napping
in an old monument; then down goes dust and ashes, and the stoutest cavalier is no better.
O brave Oliver! Time's voider, subsizer to the worms, in whom death, who formerly devoured
our ancestors, now chews the cud. He said grace once as if he would have fallen aboard with
the Marquis of Newcastle; nay, and the diurnal gave you his bill of fare; but it proved a running
banquet, as appears by the story. Believe him as he whistles to his Cambridge team of committee-men,
and he doth wonders. But holy men, like the holy language, must be read backwards. They rifle
colleges to promote learning, and pull down churches for edification. But sacrilege is entailed
upon him. There must be a Cromwell for cathedrals as well as abbeys; a secure sin, whose offence
carries its pardon in its mouth; for how shall he be hanged for church-robbery, that gives
himself the benefit of the clergy?

But for all Cromwell's nose wears the dominical letter, compared to Manchester he is but like
the vigils to an holy-day. This, this is the man of God, so sanctified a thunderbolt, that
Burroughs (in a proportionable blasphemy to his Lord of Hosts) would style him the archangel
giving battle to the devil.

Indeed, as the angels each of them makes a several species, so every one of his soldiers makes
a distinct church. Had these beasts been to enter into the ark it would have puzzled Noah to
have sorted them into pairs. If ever there were a rope of sand it was so many sects twisted
into an association.

They agree in nothing but that they are all Adamites in understanding. It is a sign of a coward
to wink and fight, yet all their valour proceeds from their ignorance.

But I wonder whence their general's purity proceeds; it is not by traduction; if he was begotten
a saint it was by equivocal generation, for the devil in the father is turned monk in the son,
so his godliness is of the same parentage with good laws, both extracted out of bad manners,
and would he alter the Scripture as he hath attempted the creed, he might vary the text and
say to corruption, Thou art my Father.

This is he that put out one of the kingdom's eyes by clouding our mother university; and (if
this Scotch mist farther prevail) he will extinguish the other. He hath the like quarrel to
both, because both are strung with the same optic nerve, knowing loyalty.

Barbarous rebel! who will be revenged upon all learning, because his treason is beyond the
mercy of the book.

The diurnal as yet hath not talked much of his victories, but there is the more behind, for
the knight must always beat the giant, that's resolved.

If anything fall out amiss which cannot be smothered, the diurnal hath a help at maw. It is
but putting to sea and taking a Danish fleet, or brewing it with some success out of Ireland,
and then it goes down merrily.

There are more puppets that move by the wire of a diurnal, as Brereton and Cell, two of Mars
his petty-toes, such snivelling cowards that it is a favour to call them so.

The greatest wonder is at Fairfax, how he comes to be a babe of grace, certainly it is not
in his personal, but (as the State-sophies distinguish) in his politic capacity; degenerate
ab extra by the zeal of the house he sat in, as chickens are hatched at Grand Cairo by the
adoption of an oven.

There is the woodmonger too, a feeble crutch to a declining cause, a new branch of the old
oak of reformation.

And now I speak of reformation, vous avez, Fox the tinker, the liveliest emblem of it that
may be; for what did this parliament ever go about to reform, but, tinkerwise, in mending one
hole they made three?

But I have not ink enough to cure all the tetters and ring-worms of the State.

I will close up all thus. The victories of the rebels are like the magical combat of Apuleius,
who thinking he had slain three of his enemies, found them at last but a triumvirate of bladders.
Such, and so empty are the triumphs of a diurnal, but so many impostumated fancies, so many
bladders of their own blowing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Surfeit to A.B.C." in 1656, was a look of Characters. "Naps upon Parnassus'" in 1658 contained
Characters of a Temporizer and an Antiquary. In the same year appeared "Satyrical Characters
and Handsome Descriptions, in Letters." In 1659 there was a third edition of a satire on the
English, published as "A Character of England, as it was lately presented in a Letter to a
Nobleman of France" replied to in that year by "A Character of France." In 1660 appeared "The
Character of Italy" and "The Character of Spain;" in 1661, "Essays and Characters by L. G.;"
in 1662-63, "The Assembly-Man" a Character that had been written by Sir John Birkenhead in
1647. Then came, in 1665, Richard Flecknoe, to whom Dryden ascribed sovereignty as one who

   "In prose and verse was owned without dispute,
   Through all the realms of Nonsense absolute."

As he was equally ready in all forms of writing that his neighbours followed he, of course,
wrote Characters.

This is one of Flecknoe's Characters:--

THE VALIANT MAN. He holds honour, though delicate as crystal, yet not so slight and brittle
to be broke and cracked with every touch; therefore, though most wary of it, is not querulous
nor punctilious.

In 1673 there was published "The Character of a Coffee House, with the symptoms of a Town Wit;"
and in the same year, "Essays of Love and Marriage ... with some Characters and other Passages
of Wit;" in 1675, "The Character of a Fanatick. In 1681 appeared the "Character of a Disbanded
Courtier," and in 1684 Oldham's "Character of a certain ugly old P----." Sir William Coventry's
"Character of a Trimmer," published in 1689, had been written before 1659, when it had been
answered by a "Character of a Tory," not printed at the time, but included (1721) in the works
of George Villiers, second Duke of Buckingham. In 1689 appeared "Characters addressed to Ladies
of Age," and also "The Ceremony-Monger his Character, in Six Chapters, by E. Hickeringill,
Rector of All Saints, Colchester." Ohe! Enough, enough!

SAMUEL BUTLER,

Author of "Hudibras," who died in 1680, also exercised his wit in Character writing. When Butler's
"Remains" were published in two volumes in 1759 by R. Thyer, Keeper of the Public Library of
Manchester, 460 pages of the second volume, (all the volume except forty or fifty pages of
"Thoughts on Various Subjects,") was occupied by a collection of 120 Characters that he had
written. I close this volume of "Character Writings of the Seventeenth Century" with as many
of Samuel Butler's Characters as the book has room for,--none are wittier--space being left
for one Character by a poet of our own century, Wordsworth's "Character of the Happy Warrior"
to bring us to a happy close.

CHARACTERS.

BY SAMUEL BUTLER.

A DEGENERATE NOBLE; OR, ONE THAT IS PROUD OF HIS BIRTH,

Is like a turnip, there is nothing good of him but that which is underground; or rhubarb, a
contemptible shrub that springs from a noble root. He has no more title to the worth and virtue
of his ancestors than the worms that were engendered in their dead bodies, and yet he believes
he has enough to exempt himself and his posterity from all things of that nature for ever.
This makes him glory in the antiquity of his family, as if his nobility were the better the
further off it is, in time as well as desert, from that of his predecessors. He believes the
honour that was left him as well as the estate is sufficient to support his quality without
troubling himself to purchase any more of his own; and he meddles us little with the management
of the one as the other, but trusts both to the government of his servants, by whom he is equally
cheated in both. He supposes the empty title of honour sufficient to serve his turn, though
he has spent the substance and reality of it, like the fellow that sold his ass but would not
part with the shadow of it; or Apicius, that sold his house, and kept only the balcony to see
and be seen in. And because he is privileged from being arrested for his debts, supposes he
has the same freedom from all obligations he owes humanity and his country, because he is not
punishable for his ignorance and want of honour, no more than poverty or unskilfulness is in
other professions, which the law supposes to be punishment enough to itself. He is like a fanatic,
that contents himself with the mere title of a saint, and makes that his privilege to act all
manner of wickedness; or the ruins of a noble structure, of which there is nothing left but
the foundation, and that obscured and buried under the rubbish of the superstructure. The living
honour of his ancestors is long ago departed, dead and gone, and his is but the ghost and shadow
of it, that haunts the house with horror and disquiet where once it lived. His nobility is
truly descended from the glory of his forefathers, and may be rightly said to fall to him,
for it will never rise again to the height it was in them by his means, and he succeeds them
as candles do the office of the sun. The confidence of nobility has rendered him ignoble, as
the opinion of wealth makes some men poor, and as those that are born to estates neglect industry
and have no business but to spend, so he being born to honour believes he is no further concerned
than to consume and waste it. He is but a copy, and so ill done that there is no line of the
original in him but the sin only. He is like a word that by ill-custom and mistake has utterly
lost the sense of that from which it was derived, and now signifies quite contrary; for the
glory of noble ancestors will not permit the good or bad of their posterity to be obscure.
He values himself only upon his title, which being only verbal gives him a wrong account of
his natural capacity, for the same words signify more or less, according as they are applied
to things, as ordinary and extraordinary do at court; and sometimes the greater sound has the
less sense, as in accounts, though four be more than three, yet a third in proportion is more
than a fourth.

A HUFFING COURTIER

Is a cipher, that has no value himself but from the place he stands in. All his happiness consists
in the opinion he believes others have of it. This is his faith, but as it is heretical and
erroneous, though he suffer much tribulation for it, he continues obstinate, and not to be
convinced. He flutters up and down like a butterfly in a garden, and while he is pruning of
his peruke takes occasion to contemplate his legs and the symmetry of his breeches. He is part
of the furniture of the rooms, and serves for a walking picture, a moving piece of arras. His
business is only to be seen, and he performs it with admirable industry, placing himself always
in the best light, looking wonderfully politic, and cautious whom he mixes withal. His occupation
is to show his clothes, and if they could but walk themselves they would save him the labour
and do his work as well as himself. His immunity from varlets is his freehold, and he were
a lost man without it. His clothes are but his tailor's livery, which he gives him, for 'tis
ten to one he never pays for them. He is very careful to discover the lining of his coat, that
you may not suspect any want of integrity or flaw in him from the skin outwards. His tailor
is his creator, and makes him of nothing; and though he lives by faith in him, he is perpetually
committing iniquities against him. His soul dwells in the outside of him, like that of a hollow
tree, and if you do but peel the bark off him he deceases immediately. His carriage of himself
is the wearing of his clothes, and, like the cinnamon tree, his bark is better than his body.
His looking big is rather a tumour than greatness. He is an idol that has just so much value
as other men give him that believe in him, but none of his own. He makes his ignorance pass
for reserve, and, like a hunting-nag, leaps over what he cannot get through. He has just so
much of politics as hostlers in the university have Latin. He is as humble as a Jesuit to his
superior, but repays himself again in insolence over those that are below him, and with a generous
scorn despises those that can neither do him good nor hurt. He adores those that may do him
good, though he knows they never will, and despises those that would not hurt him if they could.
The court is his church, and he believes as that believes, and cries up and down everything
as he finds it pass there. It is a great comfort to him to think that some who do not know
him may perhaps take him for a lord, and while that thought lasts he looks bigger than usual
and forgets his acquaintance, and that's the reason why he will sometimes know you and sometimes
not. Nothing but want of money or credit puts him in mind that he is mortal, but then he trusts
Providence that somebody will trust him, and in expectation of that hopes for a better life,
and that his debts will never rise up in judgment against him. To get in debt is to labour
in his vocation, but to pay is to forfeit his protection, for what's that worth to one that
owes nothing? His employment being only to wear his clothes, the whole account of his life
and actions is recorded in shopkeepers' books, that are his faithful historiographers to their
own posterity; and he believes he loses so much reputation as he pays off his debts, and that
no man wears his clothes in fashion that pays for them, for nothing is further from the mode.
He believes that he that runs in debt is beforehand with those that trust him, and only those
that pay are behind. His brains are turned giddy, like one that walks on the top of a house,
and that's the reason it is so troublesome to him to look downwards. He is a kind of spectrum,
and his clothes are the shape he takes to appear and walk in, and when he puts them off he
vanishes. He runs as busily out of one room into another as a great practiser does in Westminster
Hall from one court to another. When he accosts a lady he puts both ends of his microcosm in
motion, by making legs at one end and combing his peruke at the other. His garniture is the
sauce to his clothes, and he walks in his portcannons like one that stalks in long grass. Every
motion of him cries "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity, quoth the preacher." He rides himself
like a well-managed horse, reins in his neck, and walks terra-terra. He carries his elbows
backward, as if he were pinioned like a trussed-up fowl, and moves as stiff as if he was upon
the spit. His legs are stuck in his great voluminous breeches like the whistles in a bagpipe,
those abundant breeches in which his nether parts are not clothed but packed up. His hat has
been long in a consumption of the fashion, and is now almost worn to nothing; if it do not
recover quickly it will grow too little for a head of garlic. He wears garniture on the toes
of his shoes to justify his pretensions to the gout, or such other malady that for the time
being is most in fashion or request. When he salutes a friend he pulls off his hat, as women
do their vizard-masks. His ribbons are of the true complexion of his mind, a kind of painted
cloud or gaudy rainbow, that has no colour of itself but what it borrows from reflection. He
is as tender of his clothes as a coward is of his flesh, and as loth to have them disordered.
His bravery is all his happiness, and, like Atlas, he carries his heaven on his back. He is
like the golden fleece, a fine outside on a sheep's back. He is a monster or an Indian creature,
that is good for nothing in the world but to be seen. He puts himself up into a sedan, like
a fiddle in a case, and is taken out again for the ladies to play upon, who, when they have
done with him, let down his treble-string till they are in the humour again. His cook and valet
de chambre conspire to dress dinner and him so punctually together that the one may not be
ready before the other. As peacocks and ostriches have the gaudiest and finest feathers, yet
cannot fly, so all his bravery is to flutter only. The beggars call him "my lord," and he takes
them at their words and pays them for it. If you praise him, he is so true and faithful to
the mode that he never fails to make you a present of himself, and will not be refused, though
you know not what to do with him when you have him.

A COURT BEGGAR

Waits at Court, as a dog does under a table, to catch what falls, or force it from his fellows
if he can. When a man is in a fair way to be hanged that is richly worth it, or has hanged
himself, he puts in to be his heir and succeed him, and pretends as much merit as another,
as no doubt he has great reason to do if all things were rightly considered. He thinks it vain
to deserve well of his Prince as long as he can do his business more easily by begging, for
the same idle laziness possesses him that does the rest of his fraternity, that had rather
take an alms than work for their livings, and therefore he accounts merit a more uncertain
and tedious way of rising, and sometimes dangerous. He values himself and his place not upon
the honour or allowances of it, but the convenient opportunity of begging, as King Clause's
courtiers do when they have obtained of the superior powers a good station where three ways
meet to exercise the function in. The more ignorant, foolish, and undeserving he is, provided
he be but impudent enough, which all such seldom fail to be, the better he thrives in his calling,
as others in the same way gain more by their sores and broken limbs than those that are sound
and in health. He always undervalues what he gains, because he comes easily by it; and, how
rich soever he proves, is resolved never to be satisfied, as being, like a Friar Minor, bound
by his order to be always a beggar. He is, like King Agrippa, almost a Christian; for though
he never begs anything of God, yet he does very much of his vicegerent the King, that is next
Him. He spends lavishly what he gets, because it costs him so little pains to get more, but
pays nothing; for if he should, his privilege would be of no use at all to him, and he does
not care to part with anything of his right. He finds it his best way to be always craving,
because he lights many times upon things that are disposed of or not beggable; but if one hit,
it pays for twenty that miscarry; even as those virtuosos of his profession at large ask as
well of those that give them nothing as those few that, out of charity, give them something.
When he has passed almost all offices, as other beggars do from constable to constable, and
after meets with a stop, it does but encourage him to be more industrious in watching the next
opportunity, to repair the charge he has been at to no purpose. He has his emissaries, that
are always hunting out for discoveries, and when they bring him in anything that he judges
too heavy far his own interest to carry, he takes in others to join with him (like blind men
and cripples that beg in consort), and if they prosper they share, and give the jackal some
small snip for his pains in questing; that is, if he has any further use of him; otherwise
he leaves him, like virtue, to reward himself; and because he deserves well, which he does
by no means approve of, gives him, that which he believes to be the fittest recompense of all
merit, just nothing. He believes that the King's restoration being upon his birthday, he is
bound to observe it all the days of his life, and grant, as some other kings have done upon
the same occasion, whatever is demanded of him, though it were the one-half of his kingdom.

A BUMPKIN OR COUNTRY SQUIRE

Is a clown of rank and degree. He is the growth of his own land, a kind of Autocthonus, like
the Athenians that sprang out of their own ground, or barnacles that grow upon trees in Scotland.
His homely education has rendered him a native only of his own soil and a foreigner to all
other places, from which he differs in language, manner of living, and behaviour, which are
as rugged as the coat of a colt that has been bred upon a common. The custom of being the best
man in his own territories has made him the worst everywhere else. He assumes the upper end
of the table at an ale-house as his birthright, receives the homage of his company, which are
always subordinate, and dispenses ale and communication like a self-conforming teacher in a
conventicle. The chief points he treats on are the memoirs of his dogs and horses, which he
repeats as often as a holder-forth that has but two sermons, to which if he adds the history
of his hawks and fishing he is very painful and laborious. He does his endeavour to appear
a droll, but his wit being, like his estate, within the compass of a hedge, is so profound
and obscure to a stranger that it requires a commentary, and is not to be understood without
a perfect knowledge of all circumstances of persons and the particular idiom of the place.
He has no ambition to appear a person of civil prudence or understanding more than in putting
off a lame, infirm jade for sound wind and limb, to which purpose he brings his squirehood
and groom to vouch, and, rather than fail, will outswear an affidavit-man. The top of his entertainment
is horrible strong beer, which he pours into his guests (as the Dutch did water into our merchants
when they tortured them at Amboyna) till they confess they can drink no more, and then he triumphs
over them as subdued and vanquished, no less by the strength of his brain than his drink. When
he salutes a man he lays violent hands upon him, and grips and shakes him like a fit of an
ague; and when he accosts a lady he stamps with his foot, like a French fencer, and makes a
lunge at her, in which he always misses his aim, too high or too low, and hits her on the nose
or chin. He is never without some rough-handed flatterer, that rubs him, like a horse, with
a curry-comb till he kicks and grunts with the pleasure of it. He has old family stories and
jests, that fell to him with the estate, and have been left from heir to heir time out of mind.
With these he entertains all comers over and over, and has added some of his own times, which
he intends to transmit over to posterity. He has but one way of making all men welcome that
come to his house, and that is by making himself and them drunk; while his servants take the
same course with theirs, which he approves of as good and faithful service, and the rather
because, if he has occasion to tell a strange, improbable story, they may be in a readiness
to vouch with the more impudence, and make it a case of conscience to lie as well as drink
for his credit. All the heroical glory he aspires to is but to be reputed a most potent and
victorious stealer of deer and beater-up of parks, to which purpose he has compiled commentaries
of his own great actions that treat of his dreadful adventures in the night, of giving battle
in the dark, discomfiting of keepers, horsing the deer on his own back, and making off with
equal resolution and success.

AN ANTIQUARY

Is one that has his being in this age, but his life and conversation is in the days of old.
He despises the present age as an innovation and slights the future, but has a great value
for that which is past and gone, like the madman that fell in love with Cleopatra. He is an
old frippery-philosopher, that has so strange a natural affection to worm-eaten speculation
that it is apparent he has a worm in his skull. He honours his forefathers and foremothers,
but condemns his parents as too modern and no better than upstarts. He neglects himself because
he was born in his own time and so far off antiquity, which he so much admires, and repines,
like a younger brother, because he came so late into the world. He spends the one-half of his
time in collecting old insignificant trifles, and the other in showing them, which he takes
singular delight in, because the oftener he does it the farther they are from being new to
him. All his curiosities take place of one another according to their seniority, and he values
them not by their abilities, but their standing. He has a great veneration for words that are
stricken in years, and are grown so aged that they have outlived their employments. These he
uses with a respect agreeable to their antiquity and the good services they have done. He throws
away his time in inquiring after that which is past and gone so many ages since, like one that
shoots away an arrow to find out another that was lost before. He fetches things out of dust
and ruins, like the fable of the chemical plant raised out of its own ashes. He values one
old invention, that is lost and never to be recovered, before all the new ones in the world,
though never so useful. The whole business of his life is the same with his that shows the
tombs at Westminster, only the one does it for his pleasure, and the other for money. As every
man has but one father, but two grandfathers and a world of ancestors, so he has a proportional
value for things that are ancient, and the farther off the greater.

He is a great time-server, but it is of time out of mind to which he conforms exactly, but
is wholly retired from the present. His days were spent and gone long before he came into the
world, and since his only business is to collect what he can out of the ruins of them. He has
so strong a natural affection to anything that is old, that he may truly say to dust and worms,
"You are my father;" and to rottenness, "Thou art my mother." He has no providence nor foresight,
for all his contemplations look backward upon the days of old; and his brains are turned with
them, as if he walked backwards. He had rather interpret one obscure word in any old senseless
discourse than be author of the most ingenious new one, and, with Scaliger, would sell the
Empire of Germany (if it were in his power) for an old song. He devours an old manuscript with
greater relish than worms and moths do, and, though there be nothing in it, values it above
anything printed, which he accounts but a novelty. When he happens to cure a small botch in
an old author, he is as proud of it as if he had got the philosopher's stone and could cure
all the diseases of mankind. He values things wrongfully upon their antiquity, forgetting that
the most modern are really the most ancient of all things in the world, like those that reckon
their pounds before their shillings and pence of which they are made up. He esteems no customs
but such as have outlived themselves and are long since out of use, as the Catholics allow
of no saints but such as are dead, and the fanatics, in opposition, of none but the living.

A PROUD MAN

Is a fool in fermentation, that swells and boils over like a porridge-pot. He sets out his
feathers like an owl, to swell and seem bigger than he is. He is troubled with a tumour and
inflammation of self-conceit, that renders every part of him stiff and uneasy. He has given
himself sympathetic love-powder, that works upon him to dotage and has transformed him into
his own mistress. He is his own gallant, and makes most passionate addresses to his own dear
perfections. He commits idolatry to himself, and worships his own image; though there is no
soul living of his Church but himself, yet he believes as the Church believes, and maintains
his faith with the obstinacy of a fanatic. He is his own favourite, and advances himself not
only above his merit, but all mankind; is both Damon and Pythias to his own dear self, and
values his crony above his soul. He gives place to no man but himself, and that with very great
distance to all others, whom he esteems not worthy to approach him. He believes whatsoever
he has receives a value in being his, as a horse in a nobleman's stable will bear a greater
price than in a common market. He is so proud that he is as hard to be acquainted with himself
as with others, for he is very apt to forget who he is, and knows himself only superficially;
therefore he treats himself civilly as a stranger with ceremony and compliment, but admits
of no privacy. He strives to look bigger than himself as well as others, and is no better than
his own parasite and flatterer. A little flood will make a shallow torrent swell above its
banks, and rage and foam and yield a roaring noise, while a deep, silent stream glides quietly
on. So a vain-glorious, insolent, proud man swells with a little frail prosperity, grows big
and loud, and overflows his bounds, and when he sinks, leaves mud and dirt behind him. His
carriage is as glorious and haughty as if he were advanced upon men's shoulders or tumbled
over their heads like knipperdolling. He fancies himself a Colosse, and so he is, for his head
holds no proportion to his body, and his foundation is lesser than his upper storeys. We can
naturally take no view of ourselves unless we look downwards, to teach us how humble admirers
we ought to be of our own values. The slighter and less solid his materials are the more room
they take up and make him swell the bigger, as feathers and cotton will stuff cushions better
than things of more close and solid parts. Imitation is the whole sum of him, and his vein
is but an itch that he has catched of others, and his flame like that of charcoals that were
burnt before. But as he wants judgment to understand what is best, he naturally takes the worst,
as being most agreeable to his own talent. He measures other men's wit by their modesty, and
his own by his confidence. He makes nothing of writing plays, because he has not wit enough
to understand the difficulty. This makes him venture to talk and scribble, as chouses do to
play with cunning gamesters until they are cheated and laughed at. He is always talking of
wit, as those that have bad voices are always singing out of tune, and those that cannot play
delight to fumble on instruments. He grows the unwiser by other men's harms, for the worse
others write, he finds the more encouragement to do so too. His greediness of praise is so
eager that he swallows anything that comes in the likeness of it, how notorious and palpable
soever, and is as shot-free against anything that may lessen his good opinion of himself. This
renders him incurable, like diseases that grow insensible.

If you dislike him, it is at your own peril; he is sure to put in a caveat beforehand against
your understanding, and, like a malefactor in wit, is always furnished with exceptions against
his judges. This puts him upon perpetual apologies, excuses, and defences, but still by way
of defiance, in a kind of whiffling strain, without regard of any man that stands in the way
of his pageant. Where he thinks he may do it safely, he will confidently own other men's writings;
and where he fears the truth may be discovered, he will, by feeble denials and feigned insinuations,
give men occasion to suppose it.

If he understands Latin or Greek he ranks himself among the learned, despises the ignorant,
talks criticisms out of Scaliger, and repeats Martial's bawdy epigrams, and sets up his rest
wholly upon pedantry. But if he be not so well qualified, he cries down all learning as pedantic,
disclaims study, and professes to write with as great facility as if his Muse was sliding down
Parnassus. Whatsoever he hears well said he seizes upon by poetical license, and one way makes
it his own; that is, by ill-repeating of it. This he believes to be no more theft than it is
to take that which others throw away. By this means his writings are, like a tailor's cushion
of mosaic work, made up of several scraps sewed together. He calls a slovenly, nasty description
great Nature, and dull flatness strange easiness. He writes down all that comes in his head,
and makes no choice, because he has nothing to do it with that is judgment. He is always repealing
the old laws of comedy, and, like the Long Parliament, making ordinances in their stead, although
they are perpetually thrown out of coffee-houses and come to nothing. He is but a copier at
best, and will never arrive to practise by the life; for bar him the imitation of something
he has read, and he has no image in his thoughts. Observation and fancy, the matter and form
of just wit, are above his philosophy. His wit is much troubled with obstructions, and he has
fits as painful as those of the spleen. He fancies himself a dainty, spruce shepherd, with
a flock and a fine silken shepherdess, that follow his pipe as rats did the conjurers in Germany.
This is a thrifty invention, and very easy, and, if it were commonly known, would much increase
the trade of wit and maintain a multitude of small poets in constant employment.

We read that Virgil used to make fifty or sixty verses in a morning, and afterwards reduce
them to ten. This was an unthrifty vanity, and argues him as well ignorant in the husbandry
of his own poetry as Seneca says he was in that of a farm; for, in plain English, it was no
better than bringing a noble to nine-pence. And as such courses brought the prodigal son to
eat with hogs, so they did him to feed with horses, which were not much better company, and
may teach us to avoid doing the like. For certainly it is more noble to take four or five grains
of sense, and, like a gold-beater, hammer them into so many leaves as will fill a whole book,
than to write nothing but epitomes, which many wise men believe will be the bane and calamity
of learning.

When he writes he never proposes any scope or purpose to himself, but gives his genius all
freedom; for as he that rides abroad for his pleasure can hardly be out of his way, so he that
writes for his pleasure can seldom be beside his subject. It is an ungrateful thing to a noble
wit to be confined to anything. To what purpose did the ancients feign Pegasus to have wings
if he must be confined to the road and stages like a pack-horse, or be forced to be obedient
to hedges and ditches? Therefore he has no respect to decorum and propriety of circumstance,
for the regard of persons, times, and places is a restraint too servile to be imposed upon
poetical license, like him that made Plato confess Juvenal to be a philosopher, or Persius,
that calls the Athenians Quirites.

For metaphors, he uses to choose the hardest and most far-set that he can light upon. These
are the jewels of eloquence, and therefore the harder they are the more precious they must be.

He'll take a scant piece of coarse sense and stretch it on the tenterhooks of half-a-score
rhymes, until it crack that you may see through it and it rattle like a drumhead. When you
see his verses hanged up in tobacco-shops, you may say, in defiance of the proverb, "that the
weakest does not always go to the wall;" for 'tis well known the lines are strong enough, and
in that sense may justly take the wall of any that have been written in our language. He seldom
makes a conscience of his rhymes, but will often take the liberty to make "preach" rhyme with
"cheat," "vote" with "rogue," and "committee-man" with "hang."

He'll make one word of as many joints as the tin-pudding that a juggler pulls out of his throat
and chops in again. What think you of glud-fum-flam-hasta-minantes? Some of the old Latin poets
bragged that their verses were tougher than brass and harder than marble; what would they have
done if they had seen these? Verily they would have had more reason to wish themselves an hundred
throats than they then had to pronounce them.

There are some that drive a trade in writing in praise of other writers (like rooks, that bet
on gamesters' hands), not at all to celebrate the learned author's merits, as they would show
but their own wits, of which he is but the subject. The lechery of this vanity has spawned
more writers than the civil law. For those whose modesty must not endure to hear their own
praises spoken may yet publish of themselves the most notorious vapours imaginable. For if
the privilege of love be allowed--Dicere quiz puduit, scribere jussit amor--why should it not
be so in self-love too? For if it be wisdom to conceal our imperfections, what is it to discover
our virtues? It is not likely that Nature gave men great parts upon such terms as the fairies
used to give money, to pinch and leave them if they speak of it. They say--Praise is but the
shadow of virtue, and sure that virtue is very foolish that is afraid of its own shadow. In
this he imitates Ben Jonson, but in nothing else.

There was one that lined a hatcase with a paper of Benlowes' poetry; Prynne bought it by chance
and put a new demi-castor into it. The first time he wore it he felt only a singing in his
head, which within two days turned to a vertigo. He was let blood in the ear by one of the
State physicians, and recovered; but before he went abroad he wrote a poem of rocks and seas,
in a style so proper and natural that it was hard to determine which was ruggeder.

There is no feat of activity nor gambol of wit that ever was performed by man, from him that
vaults on Pegasus to him that tumbles through the hoop of an anagram, but Benlowes has got
the mastery in it, whether it be high-rope wit or low-rope wit. He has all sorts of echoes,
rebuses, chronograms, &c., besides carwitchets, clenches, and quibbles. When he was a captain
he made all the furniture of his horse, from the bit to the crupper, in beaten poetry, every
verse being fitted to the proportion of the thing, with a moral allusion of the sense to the
thing; as the bridle of moderation, the saddle of content, and the crupper of constancy; so
that the same thing was both epigram and emblem, even as a mule is both horse and ass.

Some critics are of opinion that poets ought to apply themselves to the imitation of Nature,
and make a conscience of digressing from her; but he is none of these. The ancient magicians
could charm down the moon and force rivers back to their springs by the power of poetry only,
and the moderns will undertake to turn the inside of the earth outward (like a juggler's pocket)
and shake the chaos out of it, make Nature show tricks like an ape, and the stars run on errands;
but still it is by dint of poetry. And if poets can do such noble feats, they were unwise to
descend to mean and vulgar. For where the rarest and most common things are of a price (as
they are all one to poets), it argues disease in judgment not to choose the most curious. Hence
some infer that the account they give of things deserves no regard, because they never receive
anything as they find it into their compositions, unless it agree both with the measure of
their own fancies and the measure of their lines, which can very seldom happen. And therefore,
when they give a character of any thing or person, it does commonly bear no more proportion
to the subject than the fishes and ships in a map do to the scale. But let such know that poets
as well as kings ought rather to consider what is fit for them to give than others to receive;
that they are fain to have regard to the exchange of language, and write high or low according
as that runs. For in this age, when the smallest poet seldom goes below more the most, it were
a shame for a greater and more noble poet not to outthrow that cut a bar.

There was a tobacco-man that wrapped Spanish tobacco in a paper of verses which Benlowes had
written against the Pope, which, by a natural antipathy that his wit has to anything that's
Catholic, spoiled the tobacco, for it presently turned mundungus. This author will take an
English word, and, like the Frenchman that swallowed water and spit it out wine, with a little
heaving and straining would turn it immediately into Latin, as plunderat ilie domos, mille
hocopokiana, and a thousand such.

There was a young practitioner in poetry that found there was no good to be done without a
mistress; for he that writes of love before he hath tried it doth but travel by the map, and
he that makes love without a dame does like a gamester that plays for nothing. He thought it
convenient, therefore, first to furnish himself with a name for his mistress beforehand, that
he might not be to seek when his merit or good fortune should bestow her upon him; for every
poet is his mistress's godfather, and gives her a new name, like a nun that takes orders. He
was very curious to fit himself with a handsome word of a tunable sound, but could light upon
none that some poet or other had not made use of before. He was therefore forced to fall to
coining, and was several months before he could light on one that pleased him perfectly. But
after he had overcome that difficulty he found a greater remaining, to get a lady to own him.
He accosted some of all sorts, and gave them to understand, both in prose and verse, how incomparably
happy it was in his power to make his mistress, but could never convert any of them. At length
he was fain to make his laundress supply that place as a proxy until his good fortune or somebody
of better quality would be more kind to him, which after a while he neither hoped nor cared
for; for how mean soever her condition was before, when he had once pretended to her she was
sure to be a nymph and a goddess. For what greater honour can a woman be capable of than to
be translated into precious stones and stars? No herald in the world can go higher. Besides,
he found no man can use that freedom of hyperbole in the character of a person commonly known
(as great ladies are) which we can in describing one so obscure and unknown that nobody can
disprove him. For he that writes but one sonnet upon any of the public persons shall be sure
to have his reader at every third word cry out, "What an ass is this to call Spanish paper
and ceruse lilies and roses, or claps influences; to say the Graces are her waiting-women,
when they are known to be no better than her bawds; that day breaks from her eyes when she
looks asquint; or that her breath perfumes the Arabian winds when she puffs tobacco!"

It is no mean art to improve a language, and find out words that are not only removed from
common use, but rich in consonants, the nerves and sinews of speech; to raise a soft and feeble
language like ours to the pitch of High-Dutch, as he did that writ--

  "Arts rattling foreskins shrilling bagpipes quell."

This is not only the most elegant but most politic way of writing that a poet can use, for
I know no defence like it to preserve a poem from the torture of those that lisp and stammer.
He that wants teeth may as well venture upon a piece of tough horny brawn as such a line, for
he will look like an ass eating thistles.

He never begins a work without an invocation of his Muse; for it is not fit that she should
appear in public to show her skill before she is entreated, as gentlewomen do not use to sing
until they are applied to and often desired.

I shall not need to say anything of the excellence of poetry, since it has been already performed
by many excellent persons, among whom some have lately undertaken to prove that the civil government
cannot possibly subsist without it, which, for my part, I believe to be true in a poetical
sense, and more probable to be received of it than those strange feats of building walls and
making trees dance which antiquity ascribes to verse. And though philosophers are of a contrary
opinion and will not allow poets fit to live in a commonwealth, their partiality is plainer
than their reasons, for they have no other way to pretend to this prerogative themselves, as
they do, but by removing poets whom they know to have a fairer title; and this they do so unjustly
that Plato, who first banished poets his republic, forgot that that very commonwealth was poetical.
I shall say nothing to them, but only desire the world to consider how happily it is like to
be governed by those that are at so perpetual a civil war among themselves, that if we should
submit ourselves to their own resolution of this question, and be content to allow them only
fit to rule if they could but conclude it so themselves, they would never agree upon it. Meanwhile
there is no less certainty and agreement in poetry than the mathematics, for they all submit
to the same rules without dispute or controversy. But whosoever shall please to look into the
records of antiquity shall find their title so unquestioned that the greatest princes in the
whole world have been glad to derive their pedigrees, and their power too, from poets. Alexander
the Great had no wiser a way to secure that Empire to himself by right which he had gotten
by force than by declaring himself the son of Jupiter; and who was Jupiter but the son of a
poet? So Caesar and all Rome was transported with joy when a poet made Jupiter his colleague
in the Empire; and when Jupiter governed, what did the poets that governed Jupiter?

A PHILOSOPHER

Seats himself as spectator and critic on the great theatre of the world, and gives sentence
on the plots, language, and action of whatsoever he sees represented, according to his own
fancy. He will pretend to know what is done behind the scene, but so seldom is in the right
that he discovers nothing more than his own mistakes. When his profession was in credit in
the world, and money was to be gotten by it, it divided itself into multitudes of sects, that
maintained themselves and their opinions by fierce and hot contests with one another; but since
the trade decayed and would not turn to account, they all fell of themselves, and now the world
is so unconcerned in their controversies, that three Reformado sects joined in one, like Epicuro-Gassendo-Charltoniana,
will not serve to maintain one pedant. He makes his hypotheses himself, as a tailor does a
doublet without measure; no matter whether they fit Nature, he can make Nature fit them, and,
whether they are too straight or wide, pinch or stuff out the body accordingly. He judges of
the works of Nature just as the rabble do of State affairs; they see things done, and every
man according to his capacity guesses at the reasons of them, but knowing nothing of the arcana
or secret movements of either, they seldom or never are in the right. Howsoever, they please
themselves and some others with their fancies, and the farther they are off truth, the more
confident they are they are near it, as those that are out of their way believe the farther
they have gone they are the nearer their journey's end, when they are farthest of all from
it. He is confident of immaterial substances, and his reasons are very pertinent; that is,
substantial as he thinks, and immaterial as others do. Heretofore his beard was the badge of
his profession, and the length of that in all his polemics was ever accounted the length of
his weapon; but when the trade fell, that fell too. In Lucius's time they were commonly called
beard-wearers, for all the strength of their wits lay in their beards, as Samson's did in his
locks; but since the world began to see the vanity of that hare-brained cheat, they left it
off to save their credit.

A MELANCHOLY MAN

Is one that keeps the worst company in the world; that is, his own; and though he be always
falling out and quarrelling with himself, yet he has not power to endure any other conversation.
His head is haunted, like a house, with evil spirits and apparitions, that terrify and fright
him out of himself, till he stands empty and forsaken. His sleeps and his wakings are so much
the same that he knows not how to distinguish them, and many times when he dreams he believes
he is broad awake and sees visions. The fumes and vapours that rise from his spleen and hypochondrias
have so smutched and sullied his brain (like a room that smokes) that his understanding is
blear-eyed and has no right perception of anything. His soul lives in his body, like a mole
in the earth that labours in the dark, and casts up doubts and scruples of his own imaginations,
to make that rugged and uneasy that was plain and open before. His brain is so cracked that
he fancies himself to be glass, and is afraid that everything he comes near should break him
in pieces. Whatsoever makes an impression in his imagination works itself in like a screw,
and the more he turns and winds it the deeper it sticks, till it is never to be got out again.
The temper of his brain, being earthy, cold, and dry, is apt to breed worms, that sink so deep
into it no medicine in art or nature is able to reach them. He leads his life as one leads
a dog in a slip that will not follow, but is dragged along until he is almost hanged, as he
has it often under consideration to treat himself in convenient time and place, if he can but
catch himself alone. After a long and mortal feud between his inward and his outward man, they
at length agree to meet without seconds and decide the quarrel, in which the one drops and
the other slinks out of the way and makes his escape into some foreign world, from whence it
is never after heard of. He converses with nothing so much as his own imagination, which, being
apt to misrepresent things to him, makes him believe that it is something else than it is,
and that he holds intelligence with spirits that reveal whatsoever he fancies to him, as the
ancient rude people that first heard their own voices repeated by echoes in the woods concluded
it must proceed from some invisible inhabitants of those solitary places, which they after
believed to be gods, and called them sylvans, fauns, and dryads. He makes the infirmity of
his temper pass for revelations, as Mahomet did by his falling sickness, and inspires himself
with the wind of his own hypochondrias. He laments, like Heraclitus, the maudlin philosopher,
at other men's mirth, and takes pleasure in nothing but his own unsober sadness. His mind is
full of thoughts, but they are all empty, like a nest of boxes. He sleeps little, but dreams
much, and soundest when he is waking. He sees visions farther off than a second-sighted man
in Scotland, and dreams upon a hard point with admirable judgment. He is just so much worse
than a madman as he is below him in degree of frenzy, for among madmen the most mad govern
all the rest, and receive a natural obedience from their inferiors.

A TRAVELLER

Is a native of all countries and an alien at home. He flies from the place where he was hatched,
like a wild goose, and prefers all others before it. He has no quarrel to it but because he
was born in it, and, like a bastard, he is ashamed of his mother, because she is of him. He
is a merchant that makes voyages into foreign nations to drive a trade in wisdom and politics,
and it is not for his credit to have it thought he has made an ill return, which must be if
he should allow of any of the growth of his own country. This makes him quack and blow up himself
with admiration of foreign parts and a generous contempt of home, that all men may admire at
least the means he has had of improvement and deplore their own defects. His observations are
like a sieve, that lets the finer flour pass and retains only the bran of things, for his whole
return of wisdom proves to be but affectation, a perishable commodity, which he will never
be able to put off. He believes all men's wits are at a stand that stay at home, and only those
advanced that travel, as if change of pasture did make great politicians as well as fat calves.
He pities the little knowledge of truth which those have that have not seen the world abroad,
forgetting that at the same time he tells us how little credit is to be given to his own relations
and those of others that speak and write of their travels. He has worn his own language to
rags, and patched it up with scraps and ends of foreign. This serves him for wit; for when
he meets with any of his foreign acquaintances, all they smatter passes for wit, and they applaud
one another accordingly. He believes this raggedness of his discourse a great demonstration
of the improvement of his knowledge, as Inns-of-Court men intimate their proficiency in the
law by the tatters of their gowns. All the wit he brought home with him is like foreign coin,
of a baser alloy than our own, and so will not pass here without great loss. All noble creatures
that are famous in any one country degenerate by being transplanted, and those of mean value
only improve. If it hold with men, he falls among the number of the latter, and his improvements
are little to his credit. All he can say for himself is, his mind was sick of a consumption,
and change of air has cured him; for all his other improvements have only been to eat in ...
and talk with those he did not understand, to hold intelligence with all Gazettes, and from
the sight of statesmen in the street unriddle the intrigues of all their Councils, to make
a wondrous progress into knowledge by riding with a messenger, and advance in politics by mounting
of a mule, run through all sorts of learning in a waggon, and sound all depths of arts in a
felucca, ride post into the secrets of all states, and grow acquainted with their close designs
in inns and hostelries; for certainly there is great virtue in highways and hedges to make
an able man, and a good prospect cannot but let him see far into things.

A CURIOUS MAN

Values things not by their use or worth, but scarcity. He is very tender and scrupulous of
his humour, as fanatics are of their consciences, and both for the most part in trifles. He
cares not how unuseful anything be, so it be but unuseful and rare. He collects all the curiosities
he can light upon in art or nature, not to inform his own judgment, but to catch the admiration
of others, which he believes he has a right to because the rarities are his own. That which
other men neglect he believes they oversee, and stores up trifles as rare discoveries, at least
of his own wit and sagacity. He admires subtleties above all things, because the more subtle
they are the nearer they are to nothing, and values no art but that which is spun so thin that
it is of no use at all. He had rather have an iron chain hung about the neck of a flea than
an alderman's of gold, and Homer's Iliads in a nutshell than Alexander's cabinet. He had rather
have the twelve apostles on a cherry-stone than those on St. Peter's portico, and would willingly
sell Christ again for that numerical piece of coin that Judas took for Him. His perpetual dotage
upon curiosities at length renders him one of them, and he shows himself as none of the meanest
of his rarities. He so much affects singularity that, rather than follow the fashion that is
used by the rest of the world, he will wear dissenting clothes with odd fantastic devices to
distinguish himself from others, like marks set upon cattle. He cares not what pains he throws
away upon the meanest trifle so it be but strange, while some pity and others laugh at his
ill-employed industry. He is one of those that valued Epictetus's lamp above the excellent
book he wrote by it. If he be a book-man, he spends all his time and study upon things that
are never to be known. The philosopher's stone and universal medicine cannot possibly miss
him, though he is sure to do them. He is wonderfully taken with abstruse knowledge, and had
rather handle truth with a pair of tongs wrapped up in mysteries and hieroglyphics than touch
it with his hands or see it plainly demonstrated to his senses.

A HERALD

Calls himself a king because he has power and authority to hang, draw, and quarter arms. For
assuming a jurisdiction over the distributive justice of titles of honour, as far as words
extend, he gives himself as great a latitude that way as other magistrates use to do where
they have authority and would enlarge it as far as they can. 'Tis true he can make no lords
nor knights of himself, but as many squires and gentlemen as he pleases, and adopt them into
what family they have a mind. His dominions abound with all sorts of cattle, fish, and fowl,
and all manner of manufactures, besides whole fields of gold and silver, which he magnificently
bestows upon his followers or sells as cheap as lands in Jamaica. The language they use is
barbarous, as being but a dialect of pedlar's French or the Egyptian, though of a loftier sound,
and in the propriety affecting brevity, as the other does verbosity. His business is like that
of all the schools, to make plain things hard with perplexed methods and insignificant terms,
and then appear learned in making them plain again. He professes arms not for use, but ornament
only, and yet makes the basest things in the world, as dogs' turds and women's spindles, weapons
of good and worshipful bearings. He is wiser than the fellow that sold his ass, but kept the
shadow for his own use; for he sells only the shadow (that is, the picture) and keeps the ass
himself. He makes pedigrees as apothecaries do medicines when they put in one ingredient for
another that they have not by them; by this means he often makes incestuous matches, and causes
the son to many the mother. His chief province is at funerals, where he commands in chief,
marshals the tristitiae irritamenta, and, like a gentleman-sower to the worms, serves up the
feast with all punctual formality. He will join as many shields together as would make a Roman
testudo or Macedonian phalanx, to fortify the nobility of a new-made lord that will pay for
the impressing of them and allow him coat and conduct money. He is a kind of a necromancer,
and can raise the dead out of their graves to make them marry and beget those they never heard
of in their lifetime. His coat is, like the King of Spain's dominions, all skirts, and hangs
as loose about him; and his neck is the waist, like the picture of Nobody with his breeches
fastened to his collar. He will sell the head or a single joint of a beast or fowl as dear
as the whole body, like a pig's head in Bartholomew Fair, and after put off the rest to his
customers at the same rate. His arms, being utterly out of use in war since guns came up, have
been translated to dishes and cups, as the ancients used their precious stones, according to
the poet, Gemmas ad pocula transfert a gladiis, &c.; and since are like to decay every day
more and more, for since he gave citizens coats-of-arms, gentlemen have made bold to take their
letters of mark by way of reprisal. The hangman has a receipt to mar all his work in a moment,
for by nailing the wrong end of a scutcheon upwards upon a gibbet all the honour and gentility
extinguishes of itself, like a candle that's held with the flame downwards. Other arms are
made for the spilling of blood, but his only purify and cleanse it like scurvy-grass; for a
small dose taken by his prescription will refine that which is as base and gross as bull's
blood (which the Athenians used to poison withal) to any degree of purity.

A VIRTUOSO

Is a well-willer to the mathematics; he pursues knowledge rather out of humour than ingenuity,
and endeavours rather to seem than to be. He has nothing of nature but an inclination, which
he strives to improve with industry; but as no art can make a fountain run higher than its
own head, so nothing can raise him above the elevation of his own pole. He seldom converses
but with men of his own tendency, and wheresoever he comes treats with all men as such; for
as country gentlemen use to talk of their dogs to those that hate hunting because they love
it themselves, so will he of his arts and sciences to those that neither know nor care to know
anything of them. His industry were admirable if it did not attempt the greatest difficulties
with the feeblest means; for he commonly slights anything that is plain and easy, how useful
and ingenious soever, and bends all his forces against the hardest and most improbable, though
to no purpose if attained to; for neither knowing how to measure his own abilities nor the
weight of what he attempts, he spends his little strength in vain and grows only weaker by
it; and as men use to blind horses that draw in a mill, his ignorance of himself and his undertakings
makes him believe he has advanced when he is no nearer to his end than when he set out first.
The bravery of difficulties does so dazzle his eyes that he prosecutes them with as little
success as the tailor did his amours to Queen Elizabeth. He differs from a pedant as things
do from words, for he uses the same affectation in his operations and experiments as the other
does in language. He is a haberdasher of small arts and sciences, and deals in as many several
operations as a baby artificer does in engines. He will serve well enough for an index to tell
what is handled in the world, but no further. He is wonderfully delighted with rarities, and
they continue still so to him though he has shown them a thousand times, for every new admirer
that gapes upon them sets him a-gaping too. Next these he loves strange natural histories;
and as those that read romances, though they know them to be fictions, are as much affected
as if they were true, so is he, and will make hard shift to tempt himself to believe them first
to be possible, and then he's sure to believe them to be true, forgetting that belief upon
belief is false heraldry. He keeps a catalogue of the names of all famous men in any profession,
whom he often takes occasion to mention as his very good friends and old acquaintances. Nothing
is more pedantic than to seem too much concerned about wit or knowledge, to talk much of it,
and appear too critical in it. All he can possibly arrive to is but like the monkeys dancing
on the rope, to make men wonder how 'tis possible for art to put nature so much out of her play.

His learning is like those letters on a coach, where, many being writ together, no one appears
plain. When the King happens to be at the university and degrees run like wine in conduits
at public triumphs, he is sure to have his share; and though he be as free to choose his learning
as his faculty, yet, like St. Austin's soul, Creando infunditur, infundendo creatur. Nero was
the first emperor of his calling, though it be not much for his credit. He is like an elephant
that, though he cannot swim, yet of all creatures most delights to walk along a river's side;
and as, in law, things that appear not and things that are not are all one, so he had rather
not be than not appear. The top of his ambition is to have his picture graved in brass and
published upon walls, if he has no work of his own to face with it. His want of judgment inclines
him naturally to the most extravagant undertakings, like that of making old dogs young, telling
how many persons there are in a room by knocking at a door, stopping up of words in bottles,
&c. He is like his books, that contain much knowledge, but know nothing themselves. He is but
an index of things and words, that can direct where they are to be spoken with, but no farther.
He appears a great man among the ignorant, and, like a figure in arithmetic, is so much the
more as it stands before ciphers that are nothing of themselves. He calls himself an antisocordist,
a name unknown to former ages, but spawned by the pedantry of the present. He delights most
in attempting things beyond his reach, and the greater distance he shoots at, the farther he
is sure to be off his mark. He shows his parts as drawers do a room at a tavern, to entertain
them at the expense of their time and patience. He inverts the moral of that fable of him that
caressed his dog for fawning and leaping up upon him and beat his ass for doing the same thing,
for it is all one to him whether he be applauded by an ass or a wiser creature, so he be but
applauded.

AN INTELLIGENCER

Would give a penny for any statesman's thought at any time. He travels abroad to guess what
princes are designing by seeing them at church or dinner, and will undertake to unriddle a
government at first sight, and tell what plots she goes with, male or female; and discover,
like a mountebank, only by seeing the public face of affairs, what private marks there are
in the most secret parts of the body politic. He is so ready at reasons of State, that he has
them, like a lesson, by rote; but as charlatans make diseases fit their medicines, and not
their medicines diseases, so he makes all public affairs conform to his own established reason
of State, and not his reason, though the case alter ever so much, comply with them. He thinks
to obtain a great insight into State affairs by observing only the outside pretences and appearances
of things, which are seldom or never true, and may be resolved several ways, all equally probable;
and therefore his penetrations into these matters are like the penetrations of cold into natural
bodies, without any sense of itself or the thing it works upon. For all his discoveries in
the end amount only to entries and equipages, addresses, audiences, and visits, with other
such politic speculations as the rabble in the streets is wont to entertain itself withal.
Nevertheless he is very cautious not to omit his cipher, though he writes nothing but what
every one does or may safely know, for otherwise it would appear to be no secret. He endeavours
to reduce all his politics into maxims, as being most easily portable for a travelling head,
though, as they are for the most part of slight matters, they are but like spirits drawn out
of water, insipid and good for nothing. His letters are a kind of bills of exchange, in which
he draws news and politics upon all his correspondents, who place it to account, and draw it
back again upon him; and though it be false, neither cheats the other, for it passes between
both for good and sufficient pay. If he drives an inland trade, he is factor to certain remote
country virtuosos, who, finding themselves unsatisfied with the brevity of the Gazette, desire
to have exceedings of news besides their ordinary commons. To furnish those, he frequents clubs
and coffee-houses, the markets of news, where he engrosses all he can light upon; and if that
do not prove sufficient, he is forced to add a lie or two of his own making, which does him
double service; for it does not only supply his occasions for the present, but furnishes him
with matter to fill up gaps in the next letter with retracting what he wrote before, and in
the meantime has served for as good news as the best; and when the novelty is over it is no
matter what becomes of it, for he is better paid for it than if it were true.

A QUIBBLER

Is a juggler of words, that shows tricks with them, to make them appear what they were not
meant for and serve two senses at once, like one that plays on two Jew's trumps. He is a fencer
of language, that falsifies his blow and hits where he did not aim. He has a foolish sleight
of wit that catches at words only and lets the sense go, like the young thief in the farce
that took a purse, but gave the owner his money back again. He is so well versed in all cases
of quibble, that he knows when there will be a blot upon a word as soon as it is out. He packs
his quibbles like a stock of cards; let him but shuffle, and cut where you will, he will be
sure to have it. He dances on a rope of sand, does the somersault, strappado, and half-strappado
with words, plays at all manner of games with clinches, carwickets, and quibbles, and talks
under-leg. His wit is left-handed, and therefore what others mean for right he apprehends quite
contrary. All his conceptions are produced by equivocal generation, which makes them justly
esteemed but maggots. He rings the changes upon words, and is so expert that he can tell at
first sight how many variations any number of words will bear. He talks with a trillo, and
gives his words a double relish. He had rather have them bear two senses in vain and impertinently
than one to the purpose, and never speaks without a leer-sense. He talks nothing but equivocation
and mental reservation, and mightily affects to give a word a double stroke, like a tennis-ball
against two walls at one blow, to defeat the expectation of his antagonist. He commonly slurs
every fourth or fifth word, and seldom fails to throw doublets. There are two sorts of quibbling,
the one with words and the other with sense, like the rhetorician's figurae dictionis et figurae
sententiae--the first is already cried down, and the other as yet prevails, and is the only
elegance of our modern poets, which easy judges call easiness; but having nothing in it but
easiness, and being never used by any lasting wit, will in wiser times fall to nothing of itself.

A TIME-SERVER

Wears his religion, reason, and understanding always in the mode, and endeavours as far as
he can to be one of the first in the fashion, let it change as oft as it can. He makes it his
business, like a politic epicure, to entertain his opinion, faith, and judgment with nothing
but what he finds to be most in season, and is as careful to make his understanding ready according
to the present humour of affairs as the gentleman was that used every morning to put on his
clothes by the weather-glass. He has the same reverend esteem of the modern age as an antiquary
has for venerable antiquity, and, like a glass, receives readily any present object, but takes
no notice of that which is past or to come. He is always ready to become anything as the times
shall please to dispose of him, but is really nothing of himself; for he that sails before
every wind can be bound for no port. He accounts it blasphemy to speak against anything in
present vogue, how vain or ridiculous soever, and arch-heresy to approve of anything, though
ever so good and wise, that is laid by; and therefore casts his judgment and understanding
upon occasion, as bucks do their horns, when the season arrives to breed new against the next,
to be cast again. He is very zealous to show himself, upon all occasions, a true member of
the Church for the time being, that has not the least scruple in his conscience against the
doctrine or discipline of it, as it stands at present, or shall do hereafter, unsight unseen;
for he is resolved to be always for the truth, which he believes is never so plainly demonstrated
as in that character that says it is great and prevails, and in that sense only fit to be adhered
to by a prudent man, who will never be kinder to Truth than she is to him; for suffering is
a very evil effect, and not like to proceed from a good cause. He is a man of a right public
spirit, for he resigns himself wholly to the will and pleasure of the times, and, like a zealous
implicit patriot, believes as the State believes, though he neither knows nor cares to know
what that is.

A PRATER

Is a common nuisance, and as great a grievance to those that come near him as a pewterer is
to his neighbours. His discourse is like the braying of a mortar, the more impertinent the
more voluble and loud, as a pestle makes more noise when it is rung on the sides of a mortar
than when it stamps downright and hits upon the business. A dog that opens upon a wrong scent
will do it oftener than one that never opens but upon a right. He is as long-winded as a ventiduct
that fills as fast as it empties, or a trade-wind that blows one way for half-a-year together,
and another as long, as if it drew in its breath for six months, and blew it out again for
six more. He has no mercy on any man's ears or patience that he can get within his sphere of
activity, but tortures him, as they correct boys in Scotland, by stretching their lugs without
remorse. He is like an earwig; when he gets within a man's ear he is not easily to be got out
again. He will stretch a story as unmercifully as he does the ears of those he tells it to,
and draw it out in length like a breast of mutton at the Hercules pillars, or a piece of cloth
set on the tenters, till it is quite spoiled and good for nothing. If he be an orator that
speaks distincté et ornaté, though not apté, he delivers his circumstances with the same mature
deliberation that one that drinks with a gusto swallows his wine, as if he were loth to part
with it sooner than he must of necessity; or a gamester that pulls the cards that are dealt
him one by one, to enjoy the pleasure more distinctly of seeing what game he has in his hand.
He takes so much pleasure to hear himself speak, that he does not perceive with what uneasiness
other men endure him, though they express it ever so plainly; for he is so diverted with his
own entertainment of himself, that he is not at leisure to take notice of any else. He is a
siren to himself, and has no way to escape shipwreck but by having his mouth stopped instead
of his ears. He plays with his tongue as a cat does with her tail, and is transported with
the delight he gives himself of his own making. He understands no happiness like that of having
an opportunity to show his abilities in public, and will venture to break his neck to show
the activity of his eloquence; for the tongue is not only the worst part of a bad servant,
but of an ill master that does not know how to govern it; for then it is like Guzman's wife,
very headstrong and not sure of foot.

A DISPUTANT

Is a holder of arguments, and wagers too, when he cannot make them good. He takes naturally
to controversy, like fishes in India that are said to have worms in their heads and swim always
against the stream. The greatest mastery of his art consists in turning and winding the state
of the question, by which means he can easily defeat whatsoever has been said by his adversary,
though excellently to the purpose, like a bowler that knocks away the jack when he sees another
man's bowl lie nearer to it than his own. Another of his faculties is with a multitude of words
to render what he says so difficult to be recollected that his adversary may not easily know
what he means, and consequently not understand what to answer, to which he secretly reserves
an advantage to reply by interpreting what he said before otherwise than he at first intended
it, according as he finds it serve his purpose to evade whatsoever shall be objected. Next
to this, to pretend not to understand, or misinterpret what his antagonist says, though plain
enough, only to divert him from the purpose, and to take occasion from his exposition of what
he said to start new cavils on the bye and run quite away from the question; but when he finds
himself pressed home and beaten from all his guards, to amuse the foe with some senseless distinction,
like a falsified blow that never hits where 'tis aimed, but while it is minded makes way for
some other trick that may pass. But that which renders him invincible is abundance of confidence
and words, which are his offensive and defensive arms; for a brazen face is a natural helmet
or beaver, and he that has store of words needs not surrender for want of ammunition. No matter
for reason and sense, that go for no more in disputations than the justice of a cause does
in war, which is understood but by few and commonly regarded by none. For the custom of disputants
is not so much to destroy one another's reason as to cavil at the manner of expressing it,
right or wrong; for they believe Dolus an virtus, &c., ought to be allowed in controversy as
war, and he that gets the victory on any terms whatsoever deserves it and gets it honourably.
He and his opponent are like two false lute-strings that will never stand in tune to one another,
or like two tennis-players whose greatest skill consists in avoiding one another's strokes.

A PROJECTOR

Is by interpretation a man of forecast. He is an artist of plots, designs, and expedients to
find out money, as others hide it, where nobody would look for it. He is a great rectifier
of the abuses of all trades and mysteries, yet has but one remedy for all diseases; that is,
by getting a patent to share with them, by virtue of which they become authorised, and consequently
cease to be cheats. He is a great promoter of the public good, and makes it his care and study
to contrive expedients that the nation may not be ill served with false rags, arbitrary puppet-plays,
and insufficient monsters, of all which he endeavours to get the superintendency. He will undertake
to render treasonable pedlars, that carry intelligence between rebels and fanatics, true subjects
and well-affected to the Government for half-a-crown a quarter, which he takes for giving them
license to do so securely and uncontrolled. He gets as much by those projects that miscarry
as by those that hold (as lawyers are paid as well for undoing as preserving of men); for when
he has drawn in adventurers to purchase shares of the profit, the sooner it is stopped the
better it proves for him; for, his own business being done, he is the sooner rid of theirs.
He is very expert at gauging the understandings of those he deals with, and has his engines
always ready with mere air to blow all their money out of their pockets into his own, as vintners
do wine out of one vessel into another. He is very amorous of his country, and prefers the
public good before his own advantage, until he has joined them both together in some monopoly,
and then he thinks he has done his part, and may be allowed to look after his own affairs in
the second place. The chiefest and most useful part of his talent consists in quacking and
lying, which he calls answering of objections and convincing the ignorant. Without this he
can do nothing; for as it is the common practice of most knaveries, so it is the surest and
best fitted to the vulgar capacities of the world; and though it render him more ridiculous
to some few, it always prevails upon the greater part.

A COMPLEMENTER

Is one that endeavours to make himself appear a very fine man in persuading another that he
is so, and by offering those civilities which he does not intend to part with, believes he
adds to his own reputation and obliges another for nothing. He is very free in making presents
of his services, because he is certain he cannot possibly receive in return less than they
are worth. He differs very much from all other critics in punctilios of honour; for he esteems
himself very uncivilly dealt with if his vows and protestations pass for anything but mere
lies and vanities. When he gives his word, he believes it is no longer his, and therefore holds
it very unreasonable to give it and keep it too. He divides his services among so many that
there comes but little or nothing to any one man's share, and therefore they are very willing
to let him take it back again. He makes over himself in truth to every man, but still it is
to his own uses to secure his title against all other claims and cheat his creditors. He is
very generous of his promises, but still it is without lawful consideration, and so they go
for nothing. He extols a man to his face, like those that write in praise of an author to show
his own wit, not his whom they undertake to commend. He has certain set forms and routines
of speech, which he can say over while he thinks on anything else, as a Catholic does his prayers,
and therefore never means what he says. His words flow easily from him, but so shallow that
they will bear no weight at all. All his offers of endearment are but like terms of course,
that carry their own answers along with them, and therefore pass for nothing between those
that understand them, and deceive those only that believe in them. He professes most kindness
commonly to those he least cares for, like an host that bids a man welcome when he is going
away. He had rather be every man's menial servant than any one man's friend; for servants gain
by their masters, and men often lose by their friends.

A CHEAT

Is a freeman of all trades, and all trades of his. Fraud and treachery are his calling, though
his profession be the strictest integrity and truth. He spins nets, like a spider, out of his
own entrails, to entrap the simple and unwary that light in his way, whom he devours and feeds
upon. All the greater sort of cheats, being allowed by authority, have lost their names (as
judges, when they are called to the Bench, are no more styled lawyers) and left the title to
the meaner only and the unallowed. The common ignorance of mankind is his province, which he
orders to the best advantage. He is but a tame highwayman, that does the same things by stratagem
and design which the other does by force, makes men deliver their understandings first, and
after their purses. Oaths and lies are his tools that he works with, and he gets his living
by the drudgery of his conscience. He endeavours to cheat the devil by mortgaging his soul
so many times over and over to him, forgetting that he has damnations, as priests have absolutions
of all prices. He is a kind of a just judgment, sent into this world to punish the confidence
and curiosity of ignorance, that out of a natural inclination to error will tempt its own punishment
and help to abuse itself. He can put on as many shapes as the devil that set him on work, is
one that fishes in muddy understandings, and will tickle a trout in his own element till he
has him in his clutches, and after in his dish or the market. He runs down none but those which
he is certain are fera natura, mere natural animals, that belong to him that can catch them.
He can do no feats without the co-operating assistance of the chouse, whose credulity commonly
meets the impostor half-way, otherwise nothing is done; for all the craft is not in the catching
(as the proverb says), but the better half at least in being catched. He is one that, like
a bond without fraud, covin, and further delay, is void and of none effect, otherwise does
stand and remain in full power, force, and virtue. He trusts the credulous with what hopes
they please at a very easy rate, upon their own security, until he has drawn them far enough
in, and then makes them pay for all at once. The first thing he gets from him is a good opinion,
and afterwards anything he pleases; for after he has drawn from his guards he deals with him
like a surgeon, and ties his arm before he lets him blood.

A TEDIOUS MAN

Talks to no end, as well as to no purpose; for he would never come at it willingly. His discourse
is like the road-miles in the north, the filthier and dirtier the longer; and he delights to
dwell the longer upon them to make good the old proverb that says they are good for the dweller,
but ill for the traveller. He sets a tale upon the rack, and stretches until it becomes lame
and out of joint. Hippocrates says art is long; but he is so for want of art. He has a vein
of dulness, that runs through all he says or does; for nothing can be tedious that is not dull
and insipid. Digressions and repetitions, like bag and baggage, retard his march and put him
to perpetual halts. He makes his approaches to a business by oblique lines, as if he meant
to besiege it, and fetches a wide compass about to keep others from discovering what his design
is. He is like one that travels in a dirty deep road, that moves slowly; and, when he is at
a stop, goes back again, and loses more time in picking of his way than in going it. How troublesome
and uneasy soever he is to others, he pleases himself so well that he does not at all perceive
it; for though home be homely, it is more delightful than finer things abroad; and he that
is used to a thing and knows no better believes that other men, to whom it appears otherwise,
have the same sense of it that he has; as melancholy persons that fancy themselves to be glass
believe that all others think them so too; and therefore that which is tedious to others is
not so to him, otherwise he would avoid it; for it does not so often proceed from a natural
defect as affectation and desire to give others that pleasure which they find themselves, though
it always falls out quite contrary. He that converses with him is like one that travels with
a companion that rides a lame jade; he must either endure to go his pace or stay for him; for
though he understands long before what he would be at better than he does himself, he must
have patience and stay for him, until, with much ado to little purpose, he at length comes
to him; for he believes himself injured if he should bate a jot of his own diversion.

A PRETENDER

Is easily acquainted with all knowledges, but never intimate with any; he remembers he has
seen them somewhere before, but cannot possibly call to mind where. He will call an art by
its name, and claim acquaintance with it at first sight. He knew it perfectly, as the Platonics
say, in the other world, but has had the unhappiness to discontinue his acquaintance ever since
his occasions called him into this. He claps on all the sail he can possibly make, though his
vessel be empty and apt to overset. He is of a true philosophical temper, contented with a
little, desires no more knowledge than will satisfy nature, and cares not what his wants are
so he can but keep them from the eyes of the world. His parts are unlimited; for as no man
knows his abilities, so he does his endeavour that as few should his defects. He wears himself
in opposition to the mode, for his lining is much coarser than his outside; and as others line
their serge with silk, he lines his silk with serge. All his care is employed to appear not
to be; for things that are not and things that appear not are not only the same in law, but
in all other affairs of the world. It should seem that the most impudent face is the best;
for he that does the shamefulest thing most unconcerned is said to set a good face upon it;
for the truth is, the face is but the outside of the mind, but all the craft is to know how
'tis lined. Howsoever, he fancies himself as able as any man, but not being in a capacity to
try the experiment, the hint-keeper of Gresham College is the only competent judge to decide
the controversy. He may, for anything he knows, have as good a title to his pretences as another
man; for judgment being not past in the case (which shall never be by his means), his title
still stands fair. All he can possibly attain to is but to be another thing than nature meant
him, though a much worse. He makes that good that Pliny says of children, Qui celerius fari
cepere, tardius ingredi incipiunt. The apter he is to smatter, the slower he is in making any
advance in his pretences. He trusts words before he is thoroughly acquainted with them, and
they commonly show him a trick before he is aware; and he shows at the same time his ignorance
to the learned and his learning to the ignorant.

A NEWSMONGER

Is a retailer of rumour that takes up upon trust and sells as cheap as he buys. He deals in
a perishable commodity that will not keep; for if it be not fresh it lies upon his hands and
will yield nothing. True or false is all one to him; for novelty being the grace of both, a
truth grows stale as soon as a lie; and as a slight suit will last as well as a better while
the fashion holds, a lie serves as well as truth till new ones come up. He is little concerned
whether it be good or bad, for that does not make it more or less news; and, if there be any
difference, he loves the bad best, because it is said to come soonest; for he would willingly
bear his share in any public calamity to have the pleasure of hearing and telling it. He is
deeply read in diurnals, and can give as good an account of Rowland Pepin, if need be, as another
man. He tells news, as men do money, with his fingers; for he assures them it comes from very
good hands. The whole business of his life is, like that of a spaniel, to fetch and carry news,
and when he does it well he is clapped on the back and fed for it; for he does not take to
it altogether, like a gentleman, for his pleasure, but when he lights on a considerable parcel
of news, he knows where to put it off for a dinner, and quarter himself upon it until he has
eaten it out; and by this means he drives a trade, by retrieving the first news to truck it
for the first meat in season, and, like the old Roman luxury, ransacks all seas and lands to
please his palate; for he imports his narratives from all parts within the geography of a diurnal,
and eats as well upon the Russ and Polander as the English and Dutch. By this means his belly
is provided for, and nothing lies upon his hands but his back, which takes other courses to
maintain itself by weft and stray silver spoons, straggling hoods and scarfs, pimping, and
sets at L'Ombre.

A MODERN CRITIC

Is a corrector of the press gratis; and as he does it for nothing, so it is to no purpose.
He fancies himself clerk of Stationers' Hall, and nothing must pass current that is not entered
by him. He is very severe in his supposed office, and cries, "Woe to ye scribes!" right or
wrong. He supposes all writers to be malefactors without clergy that claim the privilege of
their books, and will not allow it where the law of the land and common justice does. He censures
in gross, and condemns all without examining particulars. If they will not confess and accuse
themselves, he will rack them until they do. He is a committee-man in the commonwealth of letters,
and as great a tyrant, so is not bound to proceed but by his own rules, which he will not endure
to be disputed. He has been an apocryphal scribbler himself; but his writings wanting authority,
he grew discontent and turned apostate, and thence becomes so severe to those of his own profession.
He never commends anything but in opposition to something else that he would undervalue, and
commonly sides with the weakest, which is generous anywhere but in judging. He is worse than
an index expurgatorius; for he blots out all, and when he cannot find a fault, makes one. He
demurs to all writers, and when he is overruled, will run into contempt. He is always bringing
writs of error, like a pettifogger, and reversing of judgments, though the case be never so
plain. He is a mountebank that is always quacking of the infirm and diseased parts of books,
to show his skill, but has nothing at all to do with the sound. He is a very ungentle reader,
for he reads sentence on all authors that have the unhappiness to come before him; and therefore
pedants, that stand in fear of him, always appeal from him beforehand, by the name of Momus
and Zoilus, complain sorely of his extra-judicial proceedings, and protest against him as corrupt,
and his judgment void and of none effect, and put themselves in the protection of some powerful
patron, who, like a knight-errant, is to encounter with the magician and free them from his
enchantments.

A BUSY MAN

Is one that seems to labour in every man's calling but his own, and, like Robin Goodfellow,
does any man's drudgery that will let him. He is like an ape, that loves to do whatsoever he
sees others do, and is always as busy as a child at play. He is a great undertaker, and commonly
as great an underperformer. His face is like a lawyer's buckram rag, that has always business
in it, and as he trots about his head travels as fast as his feet. He covets his neighbour's
business, and his own is to meddle, not do. He is very lavish of his advice, and gives it freely,
because it is worth nothing, and he knows not what to do with it himself. He is a common-barreter
for his pleasure, that takes no money, but pettifogs gratis. He is very inquisitive after every
man's occasions, and charges himself with them like a public notary. He is a great overseer
of State affairs, and can judge as well of them before he understands the reasons as afterwards.
He is excellent at preventing inconveniences and finding out remedies when 'tis too late; for,
like prophecies, they are never heard of till it is to no purpose. He is a great reformer,
always contriving of expedients, and will press them with as much earnestness as if himself
and every man he meets had power to impose them on the nation. He is always giving aim to State
affairs, and believes by screwing of his body he can make them shoot which way he pleases.
He inquires into every man's history, and makes his own commentaries upon it as he pleases
to fancy it. He wonderfully affects to seem full of employments, and borrows men's business
only to put on and appear in, and then returns it back again, only a little worse. He frequents
all public places, and, like a pillar in the old Exchange, is hung with all men's business,
both public and private, and his own is only to expose them. He dreads nothing so much as to
be thought at leisure, though he is never otherwise; for though he be always doing, he never
does anything.

A PEDANT

Is a dwarf scholar, that never outgrows the mode and fashion of the school where he should
have been taught. He wears his little learning, unmade-up, puts it on before it was half finished,
without pressing or smoothing. He studies and uses words with the greatest respect possible,
merely for their own sakes, like an honest man, without any regard of interest, as they are
useful and serviceable to things, and among those he is kindest to strangers (like a civil
gentleman) that are far from their own country and most unknown. He collects old sayings and
ends of verses, as antiquaries do old coins, and is as glad to produce them upon all occasions.
He has sentences ready lying by him for all purposes, though to no one, and talks of authors
as familiarly as his fellow-collegiates. He will challenge acquaintance with those he never
saw before, and pretend to intimate knowledge of those he has only heard of. He is well stored
with terms of art, but does not know how to use them, like a country-fellow that carries his
gloves in his hands, not his hands in his gloves. He handles arts and sciences like those that
can play a little upon an instrument, but do not know whether it be in tune or not. He converses
by the book, and does not talk, but quote. If he can but screw in something that an ancient
writer said, he believes it to be much better than if he had something of himself to the purpose.
His brain is not able to concoct what it takes in, and therefore brings things up as they were
swallowed, that is, crude and undigested, in whole sentences, not assimilated sense, which
he rather affects; for his want of judgment, like want of health, renders his appetite preposterous.
He pumps for affected and far-set expressions, and they always prove as far from the purpose.
He admires canting above sense. He is worse than one that is utterly ignorant, as a cock that
sees a little fights worse than one that is stark blind. He speaks in a different dialect from
other men, and much affects forced expressions, forgetting that hard words, as well as evil
ones, corrupt good manners. He can do nothing, like a conjurer, out of the circle of his arts,
nor in it without canting and ... If he professes physic, he gives his patients sound, hard
words for their money, as cheap as he can afford; for they cost him money, and study too, before
he came by them, and he has reason to make as much of them as he can.

A HUNTER

Is an auxiliary hound that assists one nation of beasts to subdue and overrun another. He makes
mortal war with the fox for committing acts of hostility against his poultry. He is very solicitous
to have his dogs well descended of worshipful families, and understands their pedigree as learnedly
as if he were a herald, and is as careful to match them according to their rank and qualities
as High-Germans are of their own progenies. He is both cook and physician to his hounds, understands
the constitutions of their bodies, and what to administer in any infirmity or disease, acute
or chronic, that can befall them. Nor is he less skilful in physiognomy, and from the aspects
of their faces, shape of their snouts, falling of their ears and lips, and make of their barrels
will give a shrewd guess at their inclinations, parts, and abilities, and what parents they
are lineally descended from; and by the tones of their voices and statures of their persons
easily discover what country they are natives of. He believes no music in the world is comparable
to a chorus of their voices, and that when they are well matched they will hunt their parts
as true at first scent as the best singers of catches that ever opened in a tavern; that they
understand the scale as well as the best scholar that ever learned to compose by the mathematics;
and that when he winds his horn to them 'tis the very same thing with a cornet in a quire;
that they will run down the hare with a fugue, and a double do-sol-re-dog hunt a thorough-base
to them all the while; that when they are at a loss they do but rest, and then they know by
turns who are to continue a dialogue between two or three of them, of which he is commonly
one himself. He takes very great pains in his way, but calls it game and sport because it is
to no purpose; and he is willing to make as much of it as he can, and not be thought to bestow
so much labour and pains about nothing. Let the hare take which way she will, she seldom fails
to lead him at long-running to the alehouse, where he meets with an after-game of delight in
making up a narrative how every dog behaved himself, which is never done without long dispute,
every man inclining to favour his friend as far as he can; and if there be anything remarkable
to his thinking in it, he preserves it to please himself and, as he believes, all people else
with, during his natural life, and after leaves it to his heirs male entailed upon the family,
with his bugle-horn and seal-ring.

AN AFFECTED MAN

Carries himself like his dish (as the proverb says), very uprightly, without spilling one drop
of his humour. He is an orator and rhetorician, that delights in flowers and ornaments of his
own devising to please himself and others that laugh at him. He is of a leaden, dull temper,
that stands stiff, as it is bent, to all crooked lines, but never to the right. When he thinks
to appear most graceful, he adorns himself most ill-favouredly, like an Indian that wears jewels
in his lips and nostrils. His words and gestures are all as stiff as buckram, and he talks
as if his lips were turned up as well as his beard. All his motions are regular, as if he went
by clockwork, and he goes very true to the nick as he is set. He has certain favourite words
and expressions, which he makes very much of, as he has reason to do, for they serve him upon
all occasions and are never out of the way when he has use of them, as they have leisure enough
to do, for nobody else has any occasion for them but himself. All his affectations are forced
and stolen from others; and though they become some particular persons where they grow naturally,
as a flower does on its stalk, he thinks they will do so by him when they are pulled and dead.
He puts words and language out of its ordinary pace and breaks it to his own fancy, which makes
it go so uneasy in a shuffle, which it has not been used to. He delivers himself in a forced
way, like one that sings with a feigned voice beyond his natural compass. He loves the sound
of words better than the sense, and will rather venture to incur nonsense than leave out a
word that he has a kindness for. If he be a statesman, the slighter and meaner his employments
are the bigger he looks, as an ounce of tin swells and looks bigger than an ounce of gold;
and his affectations of gravity are the most desperate of all, as the aphorism says--Madness
of study and consideration are harder to be cured than those of lighter and more fantastic humour.

A MEDICINE-TAKER

Has a sickly mind and believes the infirmity is in his body, like one that draws the wrong
tooth and fancies his pain in the wrong place. The less he understands the reason of physic
the stronger faith he has in it, as it commonly fares in all other affairs of the world. His
disease is only in his judgment, which makes him believe a doctor can fetch it out of his stomach
or his belly, and fright those worms out of his guts that are bred in his brain. He believes
a doctor is a kind of conjurer that can do strange things, and he is as willing to have him
think so; for by that means he does not only get his money, but finds himself in some possibility
by complying with that fancy to do him good for it, which he could never expect to do any other
way; for, like those that have been cured by drinking their own water, his own imagination
is a better medicine than any the doctor knows how to prescribe, even as the weapon-salve cures
a wound by being applied to that which made it. He is no sooner well but any story or lie of
a new famous doctor or strange cure puts him into a relapse, and he falls sick of a medicine
instead of a disease, and catches physic like him that fell into a looseness at the sight of
a purge. He never knows when he is well or sick, but is always tampering with his health till
he has spoiled it, like a foolish musician that breaks his strings with striving to put them
in tune; for Nature, which is physic, understands better how to do her own work than those
that take it from her at second hand. Hippocrates says, Ars longa, vita brevis, and it is the
truest of all his aphorisms--

   "For he that's given much to the long art
   Does not prolong his life, but cut it short."

THE MISER

Is like the sea, that is said to be richer than the land, but is not able to make any use of
it at all, and only keeps it from those that know how to enjoy it if they had it. The devil
understood his business very well when he made choice of Judas's avarice to betray Christ,
for no other vice would have undertaken it; and it is to be feared that his Vicars now on earth,
by the tenderness they have to the bag, do not use Him much better than His steward did then.
He gathers wealth to no purpose but to satisfy his avarice, that has no end, and afflicts himself
to possess that which he is, of all men, the most incapable of ever obtaining. His treasure
is in his hands in the same condition as if it were buried uncier ground and watched by an
evil spirit. His desires are like the bottomless pit which he is destined to, for the one is
as soon filled as the other. He shuts up his money in close custody, and that which has power
to open all locks is not able to set itself at liberty. If he ever lets it out it is upon good
bail and mainprize, to render itself prisoner again whensoever it shall be summoned. He loves
wealth as an eunuch does women, whom he has no possibility of enjoying, or one that is bewitched
with an impotency or taken with the falling sickness. His greedy appetite to riches is but
a kind of dog-hunger, that never digests what it devours, but still the greedier and more eager
it crams itself becomes more meagre. He finds that ink and parchment preserves money better
than an iron chest and parsimony, like the memories of men that lie dead and buried when they
are committed to brass and marble, but revive and flourish when they are trusted to authentic
writings and increase by being used. If he had lived among the Jews in the wilderness he would
have been one of their chief reformers, and have worshipped anything that is cast in gold,
though a sillier creature than a calf. St. John in the Revelations describes the New Jerusalem
to be built all of gold and silver and precious stones, for the saints commonly take so much
delight in those creatures that nothing else could prevail with them ever to come thither;
and as those times are called the Golden Age in which there was no gold at all in use, so men
are reputed godly and rich that make no use at all of their religion or wealth. All that he
has gotten together with perpetual pains and industry is not wealth, but a collection, which
he intends to keep by him more for his own diversion than any other use, and he that made ducks
and drakes with his money enjoyed it every way as much. He makes no conscience of anything
but parting with his money, which is no better than a separation of soul and body to him, and
he believes it to be as bad as self-murder if he should do it wilfully; for the price of the
weapon with which a man is killed is always esteemed a very considerable circumstance, and
next to not having the fear of God before his eyes. He loves the bowels of the earth broiled
on the coals above any other cookery in the world. He is a slave condemned to the mines. He
laughs at the golden mean as ridiculous, and believes there is no such thing in the world;
for how can there be a mean of that of which no man ever had enough? He loves the world so
well that he would willingly lose himself to save anything by it. His riches are like a dunghill,
that renders the ground unprofitable that it lies upon, and is good for nothing until it be
spread and scattered abroad.

A SWEARER

Is one that sells the devil the best pennyworth that he meets with anywhere, and, like the
Indians that part with gold for glass beads, he damns his soul for the slightest trifles imaginable.
He betroths himself oftener to the devil in one day than Mecaenas did in a week to his wife,
that he was married a thousand times to. His discourse is inlaid with oaths as the gallows
is with nails, to fortify it against the assaults of those whose friends have made it their
deathbed. He takes a preposterous course to be believed and persuade you to credit what he
says, by saying that which at the best he does not mean; for all the excuse he has for his
voluntary damning of himself is, that he means nothing by it. He is as much mistaken in what
he does intend really, for that which he takes for the ornament of his language renders it
the most odious and abominable. His custom of swearing takes away the sense of his saying.
His oaths are but a dissolute formality of speech and the worst kind of affectation. He is
a Knight-Baronet of the Post, or gentleman blasphemer, that swears for his pleasure only; a
lay-affidavit man, in voto only and not in orders. He learned to swear, as magpies do to speak,
by hearing others. He talks nothing but bell, book, and candle, and delivers himself over to
Satan oftener than a Presbyterian classis would do. He plays with the devil for sport only,
and stakes his soul to nothing. He overcharges his oaths till they break and hurt himself only.
He discharges them as fast as a gun that will shoot nine times with one loading. He is the
devil's votary, and fails not to commend himself into his tuition upon all occasions. He outswears
an exorcist, and outlies the legend. His oaths are of a wider bore and louder report than those
of an ordinary perjurer, but yet they do not half the execution. Sometimes he resolves to leave
it, but not too suddenly, lest it should prove unwholesome and injurious to his health, but
by degrees as he took it up. Swearing should appear to be the greatest of sins, for though
the Scripture says, "God sees no sin in His children," it does not say He hears none.

THE LUXURIOUS

Places all enjoyment in spending, as a covetous man does in getting, and both are treated at
a witch's feast, where nothing feeds but only the imagination, and like two madmen, that believe
themselves to be the same prince, laugh at one another. He values his pleasures as they do
honour, by the difficulty and dearness of the purchase, not the worth of the thing; and the
more he pays the better he believes he ought to be pleased, as women are fondest of those children
which they have groaned most for. His tongue is like a great practiser's in law, for as the
one will not stir, so the other will not taste without a great fee. He never reckons what a
thing costs by what it is worth, but what it is worth by what it costs. All his senses are
like corrupt judges, that will understand nothing until they are thoroughly informed and satisfied
with a convincing bribe. He relishes no meat but by the rate, and a high price is like sauce
to it, that gives it a high taste and renders it savoury to his palate. He believes there is
nothing dear, nor ought to be so, that does not cost much, and that the dearest bought is always
the cheapest. He tastes all wines by the smallness of the bottles and the greatness of the
price, and when he is over-reckoned takes it as an extraordinary value set upon him, as Dutchmen
always reckon by the dignity of the person, not the charge of the entertainment he receives,
put his quality and titles into the bill of fare, and make him pay for feeding upon his own
honour and right-worship, which he brought along with him. He debauches his gluttony with an
unnatural appetite to things never intended for food, like preposterous venery or the unnatural
mixtures of beasts of several kinds. He is as curious of his pleasures as an antiquary of his
rarities, and cares for none but such as are very choice and difficult to be gotten, disdains
anything that is common, unless it be his women, which he esteems a common good, and therefore
the more communicative the better. All his vices are, like children that have been nicely bred,
a great charge to him, and it costs him dear to maintain them like themselves, according to
their birth and breeding; but he, like a tender parent, had rather suffer want himself than
they should, for he considers a man's vices are his own flesh and blood, and though they are
but by-blows, he is bound to provide for them, out of natural affection, as well as if they
were lawfully begotten.

AN UNGRATEFUL MAN

Is like dust in the highway, that flies in the face of those that raise it. He that is ungrateful
is all things that are amiss. He is like the devil, that seeks the destruction of those most
of all that do him the best service, or an unhealthful sinner that receives pleasure and returns
nothing but diseases. He receives obligations from all that he can, but they presently become
void and of none effect, for good offices fare with him like death, from which there is no
return. His ill-nature is like an ill stomach, that turns its nourishment into bad humours.
He should be a man of very great civilities, for he receives all that he can, but never parts
with any. He is like a barren soil; plant what you will on him, it will never grow, nor anything
but thorns and thistles, that came in with the curse. His mother died in child-bed of him,
for he is descended of the generation of vipers in which the dam always eats off the sire's
head, and the young ones their way through her belly. He is like a horse in a pasture, that
eats up the grass and dungs it in requital. He puts the benefits he receives from others and
his own faults together in that end of the sack which he carries behind his back. His ill-nature,
like a contagious disease, infects others that are of themselves good, who, observing his ingratitude,
become less inclined to do good than otherwise they would be; and as the sweetest wine, if
ill-preserved, becomes the sourest vinegar, so the greatest endearments with him turn to the
bitterest injuries. He has an admirable art of forgetfulness, and no sooner receives a kindness
but he owns it by prescription and claims from time out of mind. All his acknowledgments appear
before his ends are served, but never after, and, like Occasion, grow very thick before but
bare behind. He is like a river, that runs away from the spring that feeds it and undermines
the banks that support it; or like vice and sin, that destroy those that are most addicted
to it; or the hangman, that breaks the necks of those whom he gets his living by, and whips
those that find him employment, and brands his masters that set him on work. He pleads the
Act of Oblivion for all the good deeds that are done him, and pardons himself for the evil
returns he makes. He never looks backward (like a right statesman), and things that are past
are all one with him as if they had never been; and as witches, they say, hurt those only from
whom they can get something and have a hank upon, he no sooner receives a benefit but he converts
it to the injury of that person who conferred it on him. It fares with persons as with families,
that think better of themselves the farther they are off their first raisers.

A SQUIRE OF DAMES

Deals with his mistress as the devil does with a witch, is content to be her servant for a
time, that she may be his slave for ever. He is esquire to a knight-errant, donzel to the damsels,
and gentleman usher daily waiter on the ladies, that rubs out his time in making legs and love
to them. He is a gamester who throws at all ladies that are set him, but is always out, and
never wins but when he throws at the candlestick, that is, for nothing; a general lover, that
addresses unto all but never gains any, as universals produce nothing. He never appears so
gallant a man as when he is in the head of a body of ladies and leads them up with admirable
skill and conduct. He is a eunuch-bashaw, that has charge of the women and governs all their
public affairs, because he is not able to do them any considerable private services. One of
his prime qualifications is to convey their persons in and out of coaches, as tenderly as a
cook sets his custards in an oven and draws them out again, without the least discomposure
or offence to their inward or outward woman; that is, their persons and dresses. The greatest
care he uses in his conversation with ladies is to order his peruke methodically, and keep
off his hat with equal respect both to it and their ladyships, that neither may have cause
to take any just offence, but continue him in their good graces. When he squires a lady he
takes her by the handle of her person, the elbow, and steers it with all possible caution,
lest his own foot should, upon a tack, for want of due circumspection, unhappily fall foul
on the long train she carries at her stern. This makes him walk upon his toes and tread as
lightly as if he were leading her a dance. He never tries any experiment solitary with her,
but always in consort, and then he acts the woman's part and she the man's, talks loud and
laughs, while he sits demurely silent, and simpers or bows, and cries, "Anon, Madam, excellently
good!" &c. &c. He is a kind of hermaphrodite, for his body is of one sex and his mind of another,
which makes him take no delight in the conversation or actions of men, because they do so by
his, but apply himself to women, to whom the sympathy and likeness of his own temper and wit
naturally inclines him, where he finds an agreeable reception for want of a better; for they,
like our Indian planters, value their wealth by the number of their slaves. All his business
in the morning is to dress himself, and in the afternoon to show his workmanship to the ladies,
who after serious consideration approve or disallow of his judgment and abilities accordingly,
and he as freely delivers his opinion of theirs. The glass is the only author he studies, by
which his actions and gestures are all put on like his clothes, and by that he practices how
to deliver what he has prepared to say to the dames, after he has laid a train to bring it in.

AN HYPOCRITE

Is a saint that goes by clockwork, a machine made by the devil's geometry, which he winds and
nicks to go as he pleases. He is the devil's finger-watch, that never goes true, but too fast
or too slow as he sets him. His religion goes with wires, and he serves the devil for an idol
to seduce the simple to worship and believe in him. He puts down the true saint with his copper-lace
devotion, as ladies that use art paint fairer than the life. He is a great bustler in reformation,
which is always most proper to his talent, especially if it be tumultuous; for pockets are
nowhere so easily and safely picked as in jostling crowds. And as change and alterations are
most agreeable to those who are tied to nothing, he appears more zealous and violent for the
cause than such as are retarded by conscience or consideration. His religion is a mummery,
and his Gospel-walkings nothing but dancing a masquerade. He never wears his own person, but
assumes a shape, as his master, the devil, does when he appears. He wears counterfeit hands
(as the Italian pickpocket did), which are fastened to his breast as if he held them up to
heaven, while his natural fingers are in his neighbour's pocket. The whole scope of all his
actions appears to be directed, like an archer's arrow, at heaven, while the clout he aims
at sticks in the earth. The devil baits his hook with him when he fishes in troubled waters.
He turns up his eyes to heaven like birds that have no upper lid. He is a weathercock upon
the steeple of the church, that turns with every wind that blows from any point of the compass.
He sets his words and actions like a printer's letters, and he that will understand him must
read him backwards. He is much more to be suspected than one that is no professor, as a stone
of any colour is easier counterfeited than a diamond that is of none. The inside of him tends
quite cross to the outside, like a spring that runs upward within the earth and down without.
He is an operator for the soul, and corrects other men's sins with greater of his own, as the
Jews were punished for their idolatry by greater idolaters than themselves. He is a spiritual
highwayman that robs on the road to heaven. His professions and his actions agree like a sweet
voice and a stinking breath.

AN OPINIONATER

Is his own confidant, that maintains more opinions than he is able to support. They are all
bastards commonly and unlawfully begotten, but being his own, he had rather, out of natural
affection, take any pains, or beg, than they should want a subsistence. The eagerness and violence
he uses to defend them argues they are weak, for if they were true they would not need it.
How false soever they are to him, he is true to them; and as all extraordinary affections of
love or friendship are usually upon the meanest accounts, he is resolved never to forsake them,
how ridiculous soever they render themselves and him to the world. He is a kind of a knight-errant
that is bound by his order to defend the weak and distressed, and deliver enchanted paradoxes,
that are bewitched and held by magicians and conjurers in invisible castles. He affects to
have his opinions as unlike other men's as he can, no matter whether better or worse, like
those that wear fantastic clothes of their own devising. No force of argument can prevail upon
him; for, like a madman, the strength of two men in their wits is not able to hold him down.
His obstinacy grows out of his ignorance, for probability has so many ways that whosoever understands
them will not be confident of any one. He holds his opinions as men do their lands, and though
his tenure be litigious, he will spend all he has to maintain it. He does not so much as know
what opinion means, which, always supposing uncertainty, is not capable of confidence. The
more implicit his obstinacy is, the more stubborn it renders him; for implicit faith is always
more pertinacious than that which can give an account of itself; and as cowards that are well
backed will appear boldest, he that believes as the Church believes is more violent, though
he knows not what it is, than he that can give a reason for his faith. And as men in the dark
endeavour to tread firmer than when they are in the light, the darkness of his understanding
makes him careful to stand fast wheresoever he happens, though it be out of his way.

A CHOLERIC MAN

Is one that stands for madman, and has as many voices as another. If he miss he has very hard
dealing; for if he can but come to a fair polling of his fits against his intervals, he is
sure to carry it. No doubt it would be a singular advantage to him; for, as his present condition
stands, he has more full moons in a week than a lunatic has in a year. His passion is like
tinder, soon set on fire and as soon out again. The smallest occasion imaginable puts him in
his fit, and then he has no respect of persons, strikes up the heels of stools and chairs,
tears cards limbmeal without regard of age, sex, or quality, and breaks the bones of dice,
and makes them a dreadful example to deter others from daring to take part against him. He
is guilty but of misprision of madness, and if the worst come to the worst, can but forfeit
estate and suffer perpetual liberty to say what he pleases. 'Tis true he is but a candidate
of Bedlam, and is not yet admitted fellow, but has the license of the College to practise,
and in time will not fail to come in according to his seniority. He has his grace for madman,
and has done his exercises, and nothing but his good manners can put him by his degree. He
is, like a foul chimney, easily set on fire, and then he vapours and flashes as if he would
burn the house, but is presently put out with a greater huff, and the mere noise of a pistol
reduces him to a quiet and peaceable temper. His temper is, like that of a meteor, an imperfect
mixture, that sparkles and flashes until it has spent itself. All his parts are irascible,
and his gall is too big for his liver. His spleen makes others laugh at him, and as soon as
his anger is over with others he begins to be angry with himself and sorry. He is sick of a
preposterous ague, and has his hot fit always before his cold. The more violent his passion
is the sooner it is out, like a running knot, that strains hardest, but is easiest loosed.
He is never very passionate but for trifles, and is always most temperate where he has least
cause, like a nettle that stings worst when it is touched with soft and gentle fingers, but
when it is bruised with rugged, hardened hands returns no harm at all.

A SUPERSTITIOUS MAN

Is more zealous in his false, mistaken piety than others are in the truth; for he that is in
an error has farther to go than one that is in the right way, and therefore is concerned to
bestir himself and make the more speed. The practice of his religion is, like the Schoolmen's
speculations, full of niceties and tricks, that take up his whole time and do him more hurt
than good. His devotions are labours, not exercises, and he breaks the Sabbath in taking too
much pains to keep it. He makes a conscience of so many trifles and niceties, that he has not
leisure to consider things that are serious and of real weight. His religion is too full of
fears and jealousies to be true and faithful, and too solicitous and unquiet to continue in
the right, if it were so. And as those that are bunglers and unskilful in any art take more
pains to do nothing, because they are in a wrong way, than those that are ready and expert
to do the excellentest things, so the errors and mistakes of his religion engage him in perpetual
troubles and anxieties, without any possibility of improvement until he unlearn all and begin
again upon a new account. He talks much of the justice and merits of his cause, and yet gets
so many advocates that it is plain he does not believe himself; but having pleaded not guilty,
he is concerned to defend himself as well as he can, while those that confess and put themselves
upon the mercy of the Court have no more to do. His religion is too full of curiosities to
be sound and useful, and is fitter for a hypocrite than a saint; for curiosities are only for
show and of no use at all. His conscience resides more in his stomach than his heart, and howsoever
he keeps the commandments, he never fails to keep a very pious diet, and will rather starve
than eat erroneously or taste anything that is not perfectly orthodox and apostolical; and
if living and eating are inseparable, he is in the right, and lives because he eats according
to the truly ancient primitive Catholic faith in the purest times.

A DROLL

Plays his part of wit readily at first sight, and sometimes better than with practice. He is
excellent at voluntary and prelude, but has no skill in composition. He will run divisions
upon any ground very dexterously, but now and then mistakes a flat for a sharp. He has a great
deal of wit, but it is not at his own disposing, nor can he command it when he pleases unless
it be in the humour. His fancy is counterchanged between jest and earnest, and the earnest
lies always in the jest, and the jest in the earnest. He treats of all matters and persons
by way of exercitation, without respect of things, time, place, or occasion, and assumes the
liberty of a free-born Englishman, as if he were called to the long robe with long ears. He
imposes a hard task upon himself as well as those he converses with, and more than either can
bear without a convenient stock of confidence. His whole life is nothing but a merrymaking,
and his business the same with a fiddler's, to play to all companies where he comes, and take
what they please to give him either of applause or dislike; for he can do little without some
applauders, who by showing him ground make him outdo his own expectation many times, and theirs
too; for they that laugh on his side and cry him up give credit to his confidence, and sometimes
contribute more than half the wit by making it better than he meant. He is impregnable to all
assaults but that of a greater impudence, which, being stick-free, puts him, like a rough fencer,
out of his play, and after passes upon him at pleasure, for when he is once routed he never
rallies again. He takes a view of a man as a skilful commander does of a town he would besiege,
to discover the weakest places where he may make his approaches with the least danger and most
advantages, and when he finds himself mistaken, draws off his forces with admirable caution
and consideration; for his business being only wit, he thinks there is very little of that
shown in exposing himself to any inconvenience.

THE OBSTINATE MAN

Does not hold opinions, but they hold him; for when he is once possessed with an error, 'tis,
like the devil, not to be cast out but with great difficulty. Whatsoever he lays hold on, like
a drowning man, he never loses, though it do but help to sink him the sooner. His ignorance
is abrupt and inaccessible, impregnable both by art and nature, and will hold out to the last
though it has nothing but rubbish to defend. It is as dark as pitch, and sticks as fast to
anything it lays hold on. His skull is so thick that it is proof against any reason, and never
cracks but on the wrong side, just opposite to that against which the impression is made, which
surgeons say does happen very frequently. The slighter and more inconsistent his opinions are
the faster he holds them, otherwise they would fall asunder of themselves; for opinions that
are false ought to be held with more strictness and assurance than those that are true, otherwise
they will be apt to betray their owners before they are aware. If he takes to religion, he
has faith enough to save a hundred wiser men than himself, if it were right; but it is too
much to be good; and though he deny supererogation and utterly disclaim any overplus of merits,
yet he allows superabundant belief, and if the violence of faith will carry the kingdom of
heaven, he stands fair for it. He delights most of all to differ in things indifferent; no
matter how frivolous they are, they are weighty enough in proportion to his weak judgment,
and he will rather suffer self-martyrdom than part with the least scruple of his freehold,
for it is impossible to dye his dark ignorance into a lighter colour. He is resolved to understand
no man's reason but his own, because he finds no man can understand his but himself. His wits
are like a sack which, the French proverb says, is tied faster before it is full than when
it is; and his opinions are like plants that grow upon rocks, that stick fast though they have
no rooting. His understanding is hardened like Pharaoh's heart, and is proof against all sorts
of judgments whatsoever.

A ZEALOT

Is a hot-headed brother that has his understanding blocked up on both sides, like a fore-horse's
eyes, that he sees only straight-forwards and never looks about him, which makes him run on
according as he is driven with his own caprice. He starts and stops (as a horse does) at a
post only because he does not know what it is, and thinks to run away from the spur while he
carries it with him. He is very violent, as all things that tend downward naturally are; for
it is impossible to improve or raise him above his own level. He runs swiftly before any wind,
like a ship that has neither freight nor ballast, and is as apt to overset. When his zeal takes
fire it cracks and flies about like a squib until the idle stuff is spent, and then it goes
out of itself. He is always troubled with small scruples, which his conscience catches like
the itch, and the rubbing of these is both his pleasure and his pain. But for things of greater
moment he is unconcerned, as cattle in the summer-time are more pestered with flies that vex
their sores than creatures more considerable, and dust and motes are apter to stick in blear-eyes
than things of greater weight. His charity begins and ends at home, for it never goes farther
nor stirs abroad. David was eaten up with the zeal of God's house; but his zeal, quite contrary,
eats up God's house; and as the words seem to intimate that David fed and maintained the priests,
so he makes the priests feed and maintain him; and hence his zeal is never so vehement as when
it concurs with his interest; for, as he styles himself a professor, it fares with him, as
with men of other professions, to live by his calling and get as much as he can by it. He is
very severe to other men's sins that his own may pass unsuspected, as those that were engaged
in the conspiracy against Nero were most cruel to their own confederates; or as one says--

  "Compounds for sins he is inclined to
  By damning those he has no mind to."

THE OVERDOER

Always throws beyond the jack and is gone a mile. He is no more able to contain himself than
a bowl is when he is commanded to rub with the greatest power and vehemence imaginable, and
nothing lights in his way. He is a conjurer that cannot keep within the compass of his circle,
though he were sure the devil would fetch him away for the least transgression. He always overstocks
his ground and starves instead of feeding, destroys whatsoever he has an extraordinary care
for, and, like an ape, hugs the whelp he loves most to death. All his designs are greater than
the life, and he laughs to think how Nature has mistaken her match, and given him so much odds
that he can easily outrun her. He allows of no merit but that which is superabundant. All his
actions are superfoetations, that either become monsters or twins; that is, too much, or the
same again; for he is but a supernumerary and does nothing but for want of a better. He is
a civil Catholic, that holds nothing more steadfastly than supererogation in all that he undertakes,
for he undertakes nothing but what he overdoes. He is insatiable in all his actions and, like
a covetous person, never knows when he has done enough until he has spoiled all by doing too
much. He is his own antagonist, and is never satisfied until he has outdone himself as well
as that which he proposed, for he loves to be better than his word (though it always falls
out worse) and deceive the world the wrong way. He believes the mean to be but a mean thing,
and therefore always runs into extremities as the more excellent, great, and transcendent.
He delights to exceed in all his attempts, for he finds that a goose that has three legs is
more remarkable than a hundred that have but two apiece, and has a greater number of followers;
and that all monsters are more visited and applied to than other creatures that Nature has
made perfect in their kind. He believes he can never bestow too much pains upon anything; for
his industry is his own and costs him nothing; and if it miscarry he loses nothing, for he
has as much as it was worth. He is like a foolish musician that sets his instrument so high
that he breaks his strings for want of understanding the right pitch of it, or an archer that
breaks his with overbending; and all he does is forced, like one that sings above the reach
of his voice.

THE RASH MAN

Has a fever in his brain, and therefore is rightly said to be hot-headed. His reason and his
actions run downhill, borne headlong by his unstaid will. He has not patience to consider,
and perhaps it would not be the better for him if he had; for he is so possessed with the first
apprehension of anything, that whatsoever comes after loses the race and is prejudged. All
his actions, like sins, lead him perpetually to repentance, and from thence to the place from
whence they came, to make more work for repentance; for though he be corrected never so often,
he is never amended, nor will his haste give him time to call to mind where it made him stumble
before; for he is always upon full speed, and the quickness of his motions takes away and dazzles
the eyes of his understanding. All his designs are like diseases, with which he is taken suddenly
before he is aware, and whatsoever he does is extempore, without premeditation; for he believes
a sudden life to be the best of all, as some do a sudden death. He pursues things as men do
an enemy upon a retreat, until he is drawn into an ambush for want of heed and circumspection.
He falls upon things as they lie in his way, as if he stumbled at them, or his foot slipped
and cast him upon them; for he is commonly foiled and comes off with bruises. He engages in
business as men do in duels, the sooner the better, that, if any evil come of it, they may
not be found to have slept upon it, or consulted with an effeminate pillow in point of honour
and courage. He strikes when he is hot himself, not when the iron is so which he designs to
work upon. His tongue has no retentive faculty, but is always running like a fool's drivel.
He cannot keep it within compass, but it will be always upon the ramble and playing of tricks
upon a frolic, fancying of passes upon religion, State, and the persons of those that are in
present authority, no matter how, to whom, or where; for his discretion is always out of the
way when he has occasion to make use of it.

THE AFFECTED OR FORMAL

Is a piece of clockwork, that moves only as it is wound up and set, and not like a voluntary
agent. He is a mathematical body, nothing but punctum, linea, et superficies, and perfectly
abstract from matter. He walks as stiffly and uprightly as a dog that is taught to go on his
hinder legs, and carries his hands as the other does his fore-feet. He is very ceremonious
and full of respect to himself, for no man uses those formalities that does not expect the
same from others. All his actions and words are set down in so exact a method that an indifferent
accountant may cast him up to a halfpenny-farthing. He does everything by rule, as if it were
in a course of Lessius's diet, and did not eat, but take a dose of meat and drink; and not
walk, but proceed; not go, but march. He draws up himself with admirable conduct in a very
regular and well-ordered body. All his business and affairs are junctures and transactions,
and when he speaks with a man he gives him audience. He does not carry but marshal himself,
and no one member of his body politic takes place of another without due right of precedence.
He does all things by rules of proportion, and never gives himself the freedom to manage his
gloves or his watch in an irregular and arbitrary way, but is always ready to render an account
of his demeanour to the most strict and severe disquisition. He sets his face as if it were
cast in plaster, and never admits of any commotion in his countenance, nor so much as the innovation
of a smile without serious and mature deliberation, but preserves his looks in a judicial way,
according as they have always been established.

A FLATTERER

Is a dog that fawns when he bites. He hangs bells in a man's ears, as a carman does by his
horse while he lays a heavy load upon his back. His insinuations are like strong wine, that
pleases a man's palate till it has got within him, and then deprives him of his reason and
overthrows him. His business is to render a man a stranger to himself, and get between him
and home, and then he carries him whither he pleases. He is a spirit that inveighs away a man
from himself, undertakes great matters for him, and after sells him for a slave. He makes division
not only between a man and his friends, but between a man and himself, raises a faction within
him, and after takes part with the strongest side and ruins both. He steals him away from himself
(as the fairies are said to do children in the cradle), and after changes him for a fool. He
whistles to him, as a carter does to his horse while he whips out his eyes and makes him draw
what he pleases. He finds out his humour and feeds it, till it will come to hand, and then
he leads him whither he pleases. He tickles him, as they do trouts, until he lays hold on him,
and then devours and feeds upon him. He tickles his ears with a straw, and while he is pleased
with scratching it, picks his pocket, as the cutpurse served Bartl. Cokes. He embraces him
and hugs him in his arms, and lifts him above ground, as wrestlers do, to throw him down again
and fall upon him. He possesses him with his own praises like an evil spirit, that makes him
swell and appear stronger than he was, talk what he does not understand, and do things that
he knows nothing of when he comes to himself. He gives good words as doctors are said to give
physic when they are paid for it, and lawyers advice when they are fee'd beforehand. He is
a poisoned perfume that infects the brain and murders those it pleases. He undermines a man,
and blows him up with his own praises to throw him down. He commends a man out of design, that
he may be presented with him and have him for his pains, according to the mode.

A PRODIGAL

Is a pocket with a hole in the bottom. His purse has got a dysentery and lost its retentive
faculty. He delights, like a fat overgrown man, to see himself fall away and grow less. He
does not spend his money, but void it, and, like those that have the stone, is in pain till
he is rid of it. He is very loose and incontinent of his coin, and lets it fly, like Jupiter,
in a shower. He is very hospitable, and keeps open pockets for all comers. All his silver turns
to mercury, and runs through him as if he had taken it for the miserere or fluxed himself.
The history of his life begins with keeping of whores, and ends with keeping of hogs; and as
he fed high at first, so he does at last, for acorns are very high food. He swallows land and
houses like an earthquake, eats a whole dining-room at a meal, and devours his kitchen at a
breakfast. He wears the furniture of his house on his back, and a whole feather-bed in his
hat, drinks down his plate, and eats his dishes up. He is not clothed, but hung. He'll fancy
dancers cattle, and present his lady with messuage and tenement. He sets his horses at inn
and inn, and throws himself out of his coach at come the caster. He should be a good husband,
for he has made more of his estate in one year than his ancestors did in twenty. He dusts his
estate as they do a stand of ale in the north. His money in his pocket (like hunted venison)
will not keep; if it be not spent presently it grows stale, and is thrown away. He possesses
his estate as the devil did the herd of swine, and is running it into the sea as fast as he
can. He has shot it with a zampatan, and it will presently fall all to dust. He has brought
his acres into a consumption, and they are strangely fallen away; nothing but skin and bones
left of a whole manor. He will shortly have all his estate in his hands; for, like bias, he
may carry it about him. He lays up nothing but debts and diseases, and at length himself in
a prison. When he has spent all upon his pleasures, and has nothing left for sustenance, he
espouses a hostess dowager, and resolves to lick himself whole again out of ale, and make it
pay him back all the charges it has put him to.

THE INCONSTANT

Has a vagabond soul without any settled place of abode, like the wandering Jew. His head is
unfixed, out of order, and utterly unserviceable upon any occasion. He is very apt to be taken
with anything, but nothing can hold him, for he presently breaks loose and gives it the slip.
His head is troubled with a palsy, which renders it perpetually wavering and incapable of rest.
His head is like an hour-glass; that part that is uppermost always runs out until it is turned,
and then runs out again. His opinions are too violent to last, for, like other things of the
same kind in Nature, they quickly spend themselves and fall to nothing. All his opinions are
like wefts and strays that are apt to straggle from their owners and belong to the lord of
the manor where they are taken up. His soul has no retentive faculty, but suffers everything
to run from him as fast as he receives it. His whole life is like a preposterous ague in which
he has his hot fit always before his cold one, and is never in a constant temper. His principles
and resolves are but a kind of movables, which he will not endure to be fastened to any freehold,
but left loose to be conveyed away at pleasure as occasion shall please to dispose of him.
His soul dwells, like a Tartar, in a hoord, without any settled habitation, but is always removing
and dislodging from place to place. He changes his head oftener than a deer, and when his imaginations
are stiff and at their full growth, he casts them off to breed new ones, only to cast off again
the next season. All his purposes are built on air, the chamelion's diet, and have the same
operation to make him change colour with every object he comes near. He pulls off his judgment
as commonly as his hat to every one he meets with. His word and his deed are all one, for when
he has given his word he has done, and never goes farther. His judgment, being unsound, has
the same operation upon him that a disease has upon a sick man, that makes him find some ease
in turning from side to side, and still the last is the most uneasy.

A GLUTTON

Eats his children, as the poets say Saturn did, and carries his felicity and all his concernments
in his paunch. If he had lived when all the members of the body rebelled against the stomach
there had been no possibility of accommodation. His entrails are like the sarcophagus, that
devours dead bodies in a small space, or the Indian zampatan, that consumes flesh in a moment.
He is a great dish made on purpose to carry meat. He eats out his own head, and his horses'
too; he knows no grace but grace before meat, nor mortification but in fasting. If the body
be the tabernacle of the soul, he lives in a sutler's hut. He celebrates mass, or rather mess,
to the idol in his belly, and, like a papist, eats his adoration. A third course is the third
heaven to him, and he is ravished into it. A feast is a good conscience to him, and he is troubled
in mind when he misses of it. His teeth are very industrious in their calling, and his chops
like a Bridewell perpetually hatcheling. He depraves his appetite with haut-gousts, as old
fornicators do their lechery into fulsomeness and stinks. He licks himself into the shape of
a bear, as those beasts are said to do their whelps. He new forms himself in his own belly,
and becomes another thing than God and Nature meant him. His belly takes place of the rest
of his members, and walks before in state. He eats out that which eats all things else--time--and
is very curious to have all things in season at his meals but his hours, which are commonly
at midnight, and so late that he prays too late for his daily bread, unless he mean his natural
daily bread. He is admirably learned in the doctrines of meats and sauces, and deserves the
chair in juris-prudentia; that is, in the skill of pottages. At length he eats his life out
of house and home and becomes a treat for worms, sells his clothes to feed his gluttony, and
eats himself naked, as the first of his family, Adam, did.

A RIBALD

Is the devil's hypocrite, that endeavours to make himself appear worse than he is. His evil
words and bad manners strive which shall most corrupt one another, and it is hard to say which
has the advantage. He vents his lechery at the mouth, as some fishes are said to engender.
He is an unclean beast that chews the cud, for after he has satisfied his lust he brings it
up again into his mouth to a second enjoyment, and plays an after-game of lechery with his
tongue much worse than that which the Cunnilingi used among the old Romans. He strips Nature
stark naked, and clothes her in the most fantastic and ridiculous fashion a wild imagination
can invent. He is worse and more nasty than a dog, for in his broad descriptions of others'
obscene actions he does but lick up the vomit of another man's surfeits. He tells tales out
of a vaulting-school. A lewd, bawdy tale does more hurt and gives a worse example than the
thing of which it was told, for the act extends but to few, and if it be concealed goes no
farther; but the report of it is unlimited, and may be conveyed to all people and all times
to come. He exposes that with his tongue which Nature gave women modesty, and brute beasts
tails, to cover. He mistakes ribaldry for wit, though nothing is more unlike; and believes
himself to be the finer man the filthier he talks, as if he were above civility as fanatics
are above ordinances, and held nothing more shameful than to be ashamed of anything. He talks
nothing but Aretine's pictures, as plain as the Scotch dialect, which is esteemed to be the
most copious and elegant of the kind. He improves and husbands his sins to the best advantage,
and makes one vice find employment for another; for what he acts loosely in private he talks
as loosely of in public, and finds as much pleasure in the one as the other. He endeavours
to purchase himself a reputation by pretending to that which the best men abominate and the
worst value not, like one that clips and washes false coin and ventures his neck for that which
will yield him nothing.

A MODERN POLITICIAN

Makes new discoveries in politics, but they are, like those that Columbus made of the New World,
very rich, but barbarous. He endeavours to restore mankind to the original condition it fell
from, by forgetting to discern between good and evil, and reduces all prudence back again to
its first author, the serpent, that taught Adam wisdom; for he was really his tutor, and not
Samboscor, as the Rabbins write. He finds the world has been mistaken in all ages, and that
religion and morality are but vulgar errors that pass among the ignorant, and are but mere
words to the wise. He despises all learning as a pedantic little thing, and believes books
to be the business of children and not of men. He wonders how the distinction of virtue and
vice came into the world's head, and believes them to be more ridiculous than any foppery of
the schools. He holds it his duty to betray any man that shall take him for so much a fool
as one fit to be trusted. He steadfastly believes that all men are born in the state of war,
and that the civil life is but a cessation, and no peace nor accommodation; and though all
open acts of hostility are forborne by consent, the enmity continues, and all advantages by
treachery or breach of faith are very lawful; that there is no difference between virtue and
fraud among friends as well as enemies, nor anything unjust that a man can do without damage
to his own safety or interest; that oaths are but springes to catch woodcocks withal, and bind
none but those that are too weak and feeble to break them when they become ever so small an
impediment to their advantages; that conscience is the effect of ignorance, and the same with
that foolish fear which some men apprehend when they are in the dark and alone; that honour
is but the word which a prince gives a man to pass his guards withal and save him from being
stopped by law and justice, the sentinels of governments, when he has not wit nor credit enough
to pass of himself; that to show respect to worth in any person is to appear a stranger to
it, and not so familiarly acquainted with it as those are who use no ceremony, because it is
no new thing to them, as it would appear if they should take notice of it; that the easiest
way to purchase a reputation of wisdom and knowledge is to slight and undervalue it, as the
readiest way to buy cheap is to bring down the price; for the world will be apt to believe
a man well provided with any necessary or useful commodity which he sets a small value upon;
that to oblige a friend is but a kind of casting him in prison, after the old Roman way or
modern Chinese, that chains the keeper and prisoner together; for he that binds another man
to himself binds himself as much to him and lays a restraint upon both. For as men commonly
never forgive those that forgive them, and always hate those that purchase their estates (though
they pay dear and more than any man else would give), so they never willingly endure those
that have laid any engagement upon them, or at what rate soever purchased the least part of
their freedom; and as partners for the most part cheat or suspect one another, so no man deals
fairly with another that goes the least share in his freedom.

To propose any measure to wealth or power is to be ignorant of the nature of both, for as no
man can ever have too much of either, so it is impossible to determine what is enough; and
he that limits his desires by proposing to himself the enjoyment of any other pleasure but
that of gaining more shows he has but a dull inclination that will not hold out to his journey's
end. And therefore he believes that a courtier deserves to be begged himself that is ever satisfied
with begging; for fruition without desire is but a dull entertainment, and that pleasure only
real and substantial that provokes and improves the appetite and increases in the enjoyment;
and all the greatest masters in the several arts of thriving concur unanimously that the plain
downright pleasure of gaining is greater and deserves to be preferred far before all the various
delights of spending which the curiosity, wit, or luxury of mankind in all ages could ever
find out.

He believes there is no way of thriving so easy and certain as to grow rich by defrauding the
public; for public thieveries are more safe and less prosecuted than private, like robberies
committed between sun and sun, which the county pays and no one is greatly concerned in; and
as the monster of many heads has less wit in them all than any one reasonable person, so the
monster of many purses is easier cheated than any one indifferent, crafty fool. For all the
difficulty lies in being trusted, and when he has obtained that, the business does itself;
and if he should happen to be questioned and called to an account, a pardon is as cheap as
a paymaster's fee, not above fourteenpence in the pound.

He thinks that when a man comes to wealth or preferment, and is to put on a new person, his
first business is to put off all his old friendships and acquaintances, as things below him
and no way consistent with his present condition, especially such as may have occasion to make
use of him or have reason to expect any civil returns from him; for requiting of obligations
received in a man's necessity is the same thing with paying of debts contracted in his minority
when he was under age, for which he is not accountable by the laws of the land. These he is
to forget as fast as he can, and by little neglects remove them to that distance that they
may at length by his example learn to forget him, for men who travel together in company when
their occasions lie several ways ought to take leave and part. It is a hard matter for a man
that comes to preferment not to forget himself, and therefore he may very well be allowed to
take the freedom to forget others; for advancement, like the conversion of a sinner, gives
a man new values of things and persons, so different from those he had before that that which
was wont to be most dear to him does commonly after become the most disagreeable; and as it
is accounted noble to forget and pass over little injuries, so it is to forget little friendships,
that are no better than injuries when they become disparagements, and can only be importune
and troublesome instead of being useful, as they were before. All Acts of Oblivion have, of
late times, been found to extend rather to loyal and faithful services done than rebellion
and treasons committed. For benefits are like flowers, sweet only and fresh when they are newly
gathered, but stink when they grow stale and wither; and he only is ungrateful who makes returns
of obligations, for he does it merely to free himself from owing so much as thanks. Fair words
are all the civility and humanity that one man owes to another, for they are obliging enough
of themselves, and need not the assistance of deeds to make them good; for he that does not
believe them has already received too much, and he that does ought to expect no more. And therefore
promises ought to oblige those only to whom they are made, not those who make them; for he
that expects a man should bind himself is worse than a thief, who does that service for him
after he has robbed him on the highway. Promises are but words, and words air, which no man
can claim a propriety in, but is equally free to all and incapable of being confined; and if
it were not, yet he who pays debts which he can possibly avoid does but part with his money
for nothing, and pays more for the mere reputation of honesty and conscience than it is worth.

He prefers the way of applying to the vices and humours of great persons before all other methods
of getting into favour; for he that can be admitted into these offices of privacy and trust
seldom fails to arrive at greater, and with greater ease and certainty than those who take
the dull way of plain fidelity and merit. For vices, like beasts, are fond of none but those
that feed them, and where they once prevail all other considerations go for nothing. They are
his own flesh and blood, born and bred out of him, and he has a stronger natural affection
for them than all other relations whatsoever; and he that has an interest in these has a greater
power over him than all other obligations in the world; for though they are but his imperfections
and infirmities, he is the more tender of them, as a lame member or diseased limb is more carefully
cherished than all the rest that are sound and in perfect vigour. All offices of this kind
are the greatest endearments, being real flatteries enforced by deeds and actions, and therefore
far more prevalent than those that are performed but by words and fawning, though very great
advantages are daily obtained that way; and therefore he esteems flattery as the next most
sure and successful way of improving his interests. For flattery is but a kind of civil idolatry,
that makes images to itself of virtue, worth, and honour in some person that is utterly void
of all, and then falls down and worships them; and the more dull and absurd these applications
are, the better they are always received; for men delight more to be presented with those things
they want than such as they have no need nor use of. And though they condemn the realities
of those honours and renowns that are falsely imputed to them, they are wonderfully affected
with their false pretences; for dreams work more upon men's passions than any waking thoughts
of the same kind, and many, out of an ignorant superstition, give more credit to them than
the most rational of all their vigilant conjectures, how false soever they prove in the event.
No wonder, then, if those who apply to men's fancies and humours have a stronger influence
upon them than those that seek to prevail upon their reason and understandings, especially
in things so delightful to them as their own praises, no matter how false and apparently incredible;
for great persons may wear counterfeit jewels of any carat with more confidence and security
from being discovered than those of meaner quality, in whose hands the greatness of their value
(if they were true) is more apt to render them suspected. A flatterer is like Mahomet's pigeon,
that picks his food out of his master's ear, who is willing to have it believed that he whispers
oracles into it, and accordingly sets a high esteem upon the service he does him, though the
impostor only designs his own utilities; for men are for the most part better pleased with
other men's opinions, though false, of their happiness than their own experiences, and find
more pleasure in the dullest flattery of others than all the vast imaginations they can have
of themselves, as no man is apt to be tickled with his own fingers; because the applauses of
others are more agreeable to those high conceits they have of themselves, which they are glad
to find confirmed, and are the only music that sets them a-dancing, like those that are bitten
with a tarantula.

He accounts it an argument of great discretion, and as great temper, to take no notice of affronts
and indignities put upon him by great persons; for he that is insensible of injuries of this
nature can receive none, and if he lose no confidence by them, can lose nothing else; for it
is greater to be above injuries than either to do or revenge them, and he that will be deterred
by those discouragements from prosecuting his designs will never obtain what he proposes to
himself. When a man is once known to be able to endure insolences easier than others can impose
them, they will raise the siege and leave him as impregnable; and therefore he resolves never
to omit the least opportunity of pressing his affairs, for fear of being baffled and affronted;
for if he can at any rate render himself master of his purposes, he would not wish an easier
nor a cheaper way, as he knows how to repay himself and make others receive those insolences
of him for good and current payment which he was glad to take before, and he esteems it no
mean glory to show his temper of such a compass as is able to reach from the highest arrogance
to the meanest and most dejected submissions. A man that has endured all sorts of affronts
may be allowed, like an apprentice that has served out his time, to set up for himself and
put them off upon others; and if the most common and approved way of growing rich is to gain
by the ruin and loss of those who are in necessity, why should not a man be allowed as well
to make himself appear great by debasing those that are below him? For insolence is no inconsiderable
way of improving greatness and authority in the opinion of the world. If all men are born equally
fit to govern, as some late philosophers affirm, he only has the advantage of all others who
has the best opinion of his own abilities, how mean soever they really are; and, therefore,
he steadfastly believes that pride is the only great, wise, and happy virtue that a man is
capable of, and the most compendious and easy way to felicity; for he that is able to persuade
himself impregnably that he is some great and excellent person, how far short soever he falls
of it, finds more delight in that dream than if he were really so; and the less he is of what
he fancies himself to be the better he is pleased, as men covet those things that are forbidden
and denied them more greedily than those that are in their power to obtain; and he that can
enjoy all the best rewards of worth and merit without the pains and trouble that attend it
has a better bargain than he who pays as much for it as it is worth. This he performs by an
obstinate, implicit believing as well as he can of himself, and as meanly of all other men,
for he holds it a kind of self-preservation to maintain a good estimation of himself; and as
no man is bound to love his neighbour better than himself, so he ought not to think better
of him than he does of himself, and he that will not afford himself a very high esteem will
never spare another man any at all. He who has made so absolute a conquest over himself (which
philosophers say is the greatest of all victories) as to be received for a prince within himself,
is greater and more arbitrary within his own dominions than he that depends upon the uncertain
loves or fears of other men without him; and since the opinion of the world is vain and for
the most part false, he believes it is not to be attempted but by ways as false and vain as
itself, and therefore to appear and seem is much better and wiser than really to be whatsoever
is well esteemed in the general value of the world Next pride, he believes ambition to be the
only generous and heroical virtue in the world that mankind is capable of; for, as Nature gave
man an erect figure to raise him above the grovelling condition of his fellow-creatures the
beasts, so he that endeavours to improve that and raise himself higher seems best to comply
with the design and intention of Nature. Though the stature of man is confined to a certain
height, yet his mind is unlimited, and capable of growing up to heaven; and as those who endeavour
to arrive at that perfection are adored and reverenced by all, so he that endeavours to advance
himself as high as possibly he can in this world comes nearest to the condition of those holy
and divine aspirers. All the purest parts of Nature always tend upwards, and the more dull
and heavy downwards; so in the little world the noblest faculties of man, his reason and understanding,
that give him a prerogative above all other earthly creatures, mount upwards; and therefore
he who takes that course, and still aspires in all his undertakings and designs, does but conform
to that which Nature dictates. Are not the reason and the will, the two commanding faculties
of the soul, still striving which shall be uppermost? Men honour none but those that are above
them, contest with equals, and disdain inferiors. The first thing that God gave man was dominion
over the rest of his inferior creatures; but he that can extend that over man improves his
talent to the best advantage. How are angels distinguished but by dominions, powers, thrones,
and principalities? Then he who still aspires to purchase those comes nearest to the nature
of those heavenly ministers, and in all probability is most like to go to heaven, no matter
what destruction he makes in his way, if he does but attain his end; for nothing is a crime
that is too great to be punished; and when it is once arrived at that perfection, the most
horrid actions in the world become the most admired and renowned. Birds that build highest
are most safe; and he that can advance himself above the envy or reach of his inferiors is
secure against the malice and assaults of fortune. All religions have ever been persecuted
in their primitive ages, when they were weak and impotent, but when they propagated and grew
great, have been received with reverence and adoration by those who otherwise had proved their
cruellest enemies; and those that afterwards opposed them have suffered as severely as those
that first professed them. So thieves that rob in small parties and break houses, when they
are taken, are hanged; but when they multiply and grow up into armies and are able to take
towns, the same things are called heroic actions, and acknowledged for such by all the world.
Courts of justice, for the most part, commit greater crimes than they punish, and do those
that sue in them more injuries than they can possibly receive from one another; and yet they
are venerable, and must not be told so, because they have authority and power to justify what
they do, and the law (that is, whatsoever they please to call so) ready to give judgment for
them. Who knows when a physician cures or kills? And yet he is equally rewarded for both, and
the profession esteemed never the less worshipful; and therefore he accounts it a ridiculous
vanity in any man to consider whether he does right or wrong in anything he attempts, since
the success is only able to determine and satisfy the opinion of the world which is the one
and which the other. As for those characters and marks of distinction which religion, law,
and morality fix upon both, they are only significant and valid when their authority is able
to command obedience and submission; but when the greatness, numbers, or interest of those
who are concerned outgrows that, they change their natures, and that which was injury before
becomes justice, and justice injury. It is with crimes as with inventions in the mechanics,
that will frequently hold true to all purposes of the design while they are tried in little,
but when the experiment is made in great prove false in all particulars to what is promised
in the model: so iniquities and vices may be punished and corrected, like children, while they
are little and impotent, but when they are great and sturdy they become incorrigible and proof
against all the power of justice and authority.

Among all his virtues there is none which he sets so high an esteem upon as impudence, which
he finds more useful and necessary than a vizard is to a highwayman; for he that has but a
competent stock of this natural endowment has an interest in any man he pleases, and is able
to manage it with greater advantages than those who have all the real pretences imaginable,
but want that dexterous way of soliciting by which, if the worst fall out, he is sure to lose
nothing if he does not win. He that is impudent is shot-free, and if he be ever so much overpowered
can receive no hurt, for his forehead is impenetrable, and of so excellent a temper that nothing
is able to touch it, but turns edge and is blunted. His face holds no correspondence with his
mind, and therefore whatsoever inward sense or conviction he feels, there is no outward appearance
of it in his looks to give evidence against him; and in any difficulty that can befall him,
impudence is the most infallible expedient to fetch him off, that is always ready, like his
angel guardian, to relieve and rescue him in his greatest extremities; and no outward impression,
nor inward neither, though his own conscience take part against him, is able to beat him from
his guards. Though innocence and a good conscience be said to be a brazen wall, a brazen confidence
is more impregnable and longer able to hold out; for it is a greater affliction to an innocent
man to be suspected than it is to one that is guilty and impudent to be openly convicted of
an apparent crime. And in all the affairs of mankind, a brisk confidence, though utterly void
of sense, is able to go through matters of difficulty with greater ease than all the strength
of reason less boldly enforced, as the Turks are said by a small, slight handling of their
bows to make an arrow without a head pierce deeper into hard bodies than guns of greater force
are able to do a bullet of steel; and though it be but a cheat and imposture, that has neither
truth nor reason to support it, yet it thrives better in the world than things of greater solidity,
as thorns and thistles flourish on barren grounds where nobler plants would starve. And he
that can improve his barren parts by this excellent and most compendious method deserves much
better, in his judgment, than those who endeavour to do the same thing by the more studious
and difficult way of downright industry and drudging. For impudence does not only supply all
defects, but gives them a greater grace than if they had needed no art, as all other ornaments
are commonly nothing else but the remedies or disguises of imperfections; and therefore he
thinks him very weak that is unprovided of this excellent and most useful quality, without
which the best natural or acquired parts are of no more use than the Guanches' darts, which,
the virtuosos say, are headed with butter hardened in the sun. It serves him to innumerable
purposes to press on and understand no repulse, how smart or harsh soever, for he that can
fail nearest the wind has much the advantage of all others; and such is the weakness or vanity
of some men, that they will grant that to obstinate importunity which they would never have
done upon all the most just reasons and considerations imaginable, as those that watch witches
will make them confess that which they would never have done upon any other account.

He believes a man's words and his meaning should never agree together; for he that says what
he thinks lays himself open to be expounded by the most ignorant, and he who does not make
his words rather serve to conceal than discover the sense of his heart deserves to have it
pulled out, like a traitor's, and shown publicly to the rabble; for as a king, they say, cannot
reign without dissembling, so private men, without that, cannot govern themselves with any
prudence or discretion imaginable. This is the only politic magic that has power to make a
man walk invisible, give him access into all men's privacies, and keep all others out of his,
which is as great an odds as it is to discover what cards those he plays with have in their
hands, and permit them to know nothing of his; and, therefore, he never speaks his own sense,
but that which he finds comes nearest to the meaning of those he converses with, as birds are
drawn into nets by pipes that counterfeit their own voices. By this means he possesses men,
like the devil, by getting within them before they are aware, turns them out of themselves,
and either betrays or renders them ridiculous, as he finds it most agreeable either to his
humour or his occasions.

As for religion, he believes a wise man ought to possess it only that he may not be observed
to have freed himself from the obligations of it, and so teach others by his example to take
the same freedom. For he who is at liberty has a great advantage over all those whom he has
to deal with, as all hypocrites find by perpetual experience that one of the best uses that
can be made of it is to take measure of men's understandings and abilities by it, according
as they are more or less serious in it. For he thinks that no man ought to be much concerned
in it but hypocrites and such as make it their calling and profession, who, though they do
not live by their faith, like the righteous, do that which is nearest to it, get their living
by it; and that those only take the surest course who make their best advantages of it in this
world and trust to Providence for the next, to which purpose he believes it is most properly
to be relied upon by all men.

He admires good nature as only good to those who have it not, and laughs at friendship as a
ridiculous foppery, which all wise men easily outgrow; for the more a man loves another the
less he loves himself. All regards and civil applications should, like true devotion, look
upwards and address to those that are above us, and from whom we may in probability expect
either good or evil; but to apply to those that are our equals, or such as cannot benefit or
hurt us, is a far more irrational idolatry than worshipping of images or beasts. All the good
that can proceed from friendship is but this, that it puts men in a way to betray one another.
The best parents, who are commonly the worst men, have naturally a tender kindness for their
children only because they believe they are a part of themselves, which shows that self-love
is the original of all others, and the foundation of that great law of Nature, self-preservation;
for no man ever destroyed himself wilfully that had not first left off to love himself. Therefore
a man's self is the proper object of his love, which is never so well employed as when it is
kept within its own confines, and not suffered to straggle. Every man is just so much a slave
as he is concerned in the will, inclinations, or fortunes of another, or has anything of himself
out of his own power to dispose of; and therefore he is resolved never to trust any man with
that kindness which he takes up of himself, unless he has such security as is most certain
to yield him double interest; for he that does otherwise is but a Jew and a Turk to himself,
which is much worse than to be so to all the world beside. Friends are only friends to those
who have no need of them, and when they have, become no longer friends; like the leaves of
trees, that clothe the woods in the heat of summer, when they have no need of warmth, but leave
them naked when cold weather comes; and since there are so few that prove otherwise, it is
not wisdom to rely on any.

He is of opinion that no men are so fit to be employed and trusted as fools or knaves; for
the first understand no right, the others regard none; and whensoever there falls out an occasion
that may prove of great importance if the infamy and danger of the dishonesty be not too apparent,
they are the only persons that are fit for the undertaking. They are both equally greedy of
employment; the one out of an itch to be thought able, and the other honest enough, to be trusted,
as by use and practice they sometimes prove. For the general business of the world lies, for
the most part, in routines and forms, of which there are none so exact observers as those who
understand nothing else to divert them, as carters use to blind their fore-horses on both sides
that they may see only forward, and so keep the road the better, and men that aim at a mark
use to shut one eye that they may see the surer with the other. If fools are not notorious,
they have far more persons to deal with of their own elevation (who understand one another
better) than they have of those that are above them, which renders them fitter for many businesses
than wiser men, and they believe themselves to be so for all. For no man ever thought himself
a fool that was one, so confident does their ignorance naturally render them, and confidence
is no contemptible qualification in the management of human affairs; and as blind men have
secret artifices and tricks to supply that defect and find out their ways, which those who
have their eyes and are but hoodwinked are utterly unable to do, so fools have always little
crafts and frauds in all their transactions which wiser men would never have thought upon,
and by those they frequently arrive at very great wealth, and as great success in all their
undertakings. For all fools are but feeble and impotent knaves, that have as strong and vehement
inclinations to all sorts of dishonesty as the most notorious of those engineers, but want
abilities to put them in practice; and as they are always found to be the most obstinate and
intractable people to be prevailed upon by reason or conscience, so they are as easy to submit
to their superiors--that is, knaves--by whom they are always observed to be governed, as all
corporations are wont to choose their magistrates out of their own members. As for knaves,
they are commonly true enough to their own interests, and while they gain by their employments,
will be careful not to disserve those who can turn them out when they please, what tricks soever
they put upon others; and therefore such men prove more useful to them in their designs of
gain and profit than those whose consciences and reason will not permit them to take that latitude.

And since buffoonery is, and has always been, so delightful to great persons, he holds him
very improvident that is to seek in a quality so inducing that he cannot at least serve for
want of a better, especially since it is so easy that the greatest part of the difficulty lies
in confidence; and he that can but stand fair and give aim to those that are gamesters does
not always lose his labour, but many times becomes well esteemed for his generous and bold
demeanour, and a lucky repartee hit upon by chance may be the making of a man. This is the
only modern way of running at tilt, with which great persons are so delighted to see men encounter
one another and break jests, as they did lances heretofore; and he that has the best beaver
to his helmet has the greatest advantage; and as the former passed upon the account of valour,
so does the latter on the score of wit, though neither, perhaps, have any great reason for
their pretences, especially the latter, that depends much upon confidence, which is commonly
a great support to wit, and therefore believed to be its betters, that ought to take place
of it, as all men are greater than their dependents; so pleasant it is to see men lessen one
another and strive who shall show himself the most ill-natured and ill-mannered. As in cuffing
all blows are aimed at the face, so it fares in these rencounters, where he that wears the
toughest leather on his visage comes off with victory though he has ever so much the disadvantage
upon all other accounts. For a buffoon is like a mad dog that has a worm in his tongue, which
makes him bite at all that light in his way; and as he can do nothing alone, but must have
somebody to set him that he may throw at, he that performs that office with the greatest freedom
and is contented to be laughed at to give his patron pleasure cannot but be understood to have
done very good service, and consequently deserves to be well rewarded, as a mountebank's pudding,
that is content to be cut and slashed and burnt and poisoned, without which his master can
show no tricks, deserves to have a considerable share in his gains.

As for the meanness of these ways, which some may think too base to be employed to so excellent
an end, that imports nothing; for what dislike soever the world conceives against any man's
undertakings, if they do but succeed and prosper, it will easily recant its error and applaud
what it condemned before; and therefore all wise men have ever justly esteemed it a great virtue
to disdain the false values it commonly sets upon all things and which itself is so apt to
retract. For as those who go uphill use to stoop and bow their bodies forward, and sometimes
creep upon their hands, and those that descend to go upright, so the lower a man stoops and
submits in these endearing offices, the more sure and certain he is to rise; and the more upright
he carries himself in other matters, the more like, in probability, to be ruined. And this
he believes to be a wiser course for any man to take than to trouble himself with the knowledge
of arts or arms; for the one does but bring a man an unnecessary trouble, and the other as
unnecessary danger; and the shortest and more easy way to attain to both is to despise all
other men and believe as steadfastly in himself as he can--a better and more certain course
than that of merit.

What he gains wickedly he spends as vainly, for he holds it the greatest happiness that a man
is capable of to deny himself nothing that his desires can propose to him, but rather to improve
his enjoyments by glorying in his vices; for, glory being one end of almost all the business
of this world, he who omits that in the enjoyment of himself and his pleasures loses the greatest
part of his delight; and therefore the felicity which he supposes other men apprehend that
he receives in the relish of his luxuries is more delightful to him than the fruition itself.

A MODERN STATESMAN

Owns his election from free grace in opposition to merits or any foresight of good works; for
he is chosen not for his abilities or fitness for his employment, but, like a tales in a jury,
for happening to be near in court. If there were any other consideration in it (which is a
hard question to the wise), it was only because he was held able enough to be a counsellor-extraordinary
for the indifference and negligence of his understanding, and consequent probability of doing
no hurt, if no good; for why should not such prove the safest physicians to the body politic
as well as they do to the natural? Or else some near friend or friend's friend helped him to
the place, that engaged for his honesty and good behaviour in it. Howsoever, he is able to
sit still and look wise according to his best skill and cunning, and, though he understand
no reason, serve for one that does, and be most steadfastly of that opinion that is most like
to prevail. If he be a great person, he is chosen, as aldermen are in the city, for being rich
enough, and fines to be taken in as those do to be left out; and money being the measure of
all things, it is sufficient to justify all his other talents and render them, like itself,
good and current. As for wisdom and judgment, with those other out-of-fashioned qualifications
which have been so highly esteemed heretofore, they have not been found to be so useful in
this age, since it has invented scantlings for politics that will move with the strength of
a child and yet carry matters of very great weight; and that raillery and fooling is proved
by frequent experiments to be the more easy and certain way; for, as the Germans heretofore
were observed to be wisest when they were drunk and knew not how to dissemble, so are our modern
statesmen when they are mad and use no reserved cunning in their consultations; and as the
Church of Rome and that of the Turks esteem ignorant persons the most devout, there seems no
reason why this age, that seems to incline to the opinions of them both, should not as well
believe them to be the most prudent and judicious; for heavenly wisdom does, by the confession
of men, far exceed all the subtlety and prudence of this world. The heathen priests of old
never delivered oracles but when they were drunk and mad or distracted, and who knows why our
modern oracles may not as well use the same method in all their proceedings? Howsoever, he
is as ably qualified to govern as that sort of opinion that is said to govern all the world,
and is perpetually false and foolish; and if his opinions are always so, they have the fairer
title to their pretensions. He is sworn to advise no further than his skill and cunning will
enable him, and the less he has of either the sooner he despatches his business, and despatch
is no mean virtue in a statesman.

A DUKE OF BUCKS

Is one that has studied the whole body of vice. His parts are disproportionate to the whole,
and, like a monster, he has more of some and less of others than he should have. He has pulled
down all that fabric that Nature raised in him, and built himself up again after a model of
his own. He has dammed up all those lights that Nature made into the noblest prospects of the
world, and opened other little blind loopholes backward by turning day into night and night
into day. His appetite to his pleasures is diseased and crazy, like the pica in a woman that
longs to eat that which was never made for food, or a girl in the green sickness that eats
chalk and mortar. Perpetual surfeits of pleasure have filled his mind with bad and vicious
humours (as well as his body with a nursery of diseases), which makes him affect new and extravagant
ways as being sick and tired with the old. Continual wine, women, and music put false values
upon things which by custom become habitual, and debauch his understanding so that he retains
no right notion nor sense of things; and as the same dose of the same physic has no operation
on those that are much used to it, so his pleasures require a larger proportion of excess and
variety to render him sensible of them. He rises, eats, and goes to bed by the Julian account,
long after all others that go by the new style, and keeps the same hours with owls and the
antipodes. He is a great observer of the Tartars' customs, and never eats till the great Cham,
having dined, makes proclamation that all the world may go to dinner. He does not dwell in
his house, but haunts it like an evil spirit that walks all night to disturb the family, and
never appears by day. He lives perpetually benighted, runs out of his life, and loses his time,
as men do their ways, in the dark; and as blind men are led by their dogs, so is he governed
by some mean servant or other that relates to his pleasures. He is as inconstant as the moon
which he lives under; and although he does nothing but advise with his pillow all day, he is
as great a stranger to himself as he is to the rest of the world. His mind entertains all things
very freely that come and go, but, like guests and strangers, they are not welcome if they
stay long. This lays him open to all cheats, quacks, and impostors, who apply to every particular
humour while it lasts, and afterwards vanish. Thus, with St. Paul, though in a different sense,
he dies daily, and only lives in the night. He deforms Nature while he intends to adorn her,
like Indians that hang jewels in their lips and noses. His ears are perpetually drilled with
a fiddlestick. He endures pleasures with less patience than other men do their pains.

A FANTASTIC

Is one that wears his feather on the inside of his head. His brain is like quicksilver, apt
to receive any impression but retain none. His mind is made of changeable stuff, that alters
colour with every motion towards the light. He is a cormorant that has but one gut, devours
everything greedily, but it runs through him immediately. He does not know so much as what
he would be, and yet would be everything he knows. He is like a paper-lantern, that turns with
the smoke of a candle. He wears his clothes as the ancient laws of the land have provided,
according to his quality, that he may be known what he is by them; and it is as easy to decipher
him by his habit as a pudding. He is rigged with ribbon, and his garniture is his tackle; all
the rest of him is hull. He is sure to be the earliest in the fashion, and lays out for it
like the first peas and cherries. He is as proud of leading a fashion as others are of a faction,
and glories as much to be in the head of a mode as a soldier does to be in the head of an army.
He is admirably skilful in the mathematics of clothes, and can tell, at the first view, whether
they have the right symmetry. He alters his gait with the times, and has not a motion of his
body that (like a dottrel) he does not borrow from somebody else. He exercises his limbs like
a pike and musket, and all his postures are practised. Take him altogether, and he is nothing
but a translation, word for word, out of French, an image cast in plaster-of-Paris, and a puppet
sent over for others to dress themselves by. He speaks French as pedants do Latin, to show
his breeding, and most naturally where he is least understood. All his non-naturals, on which
his health and diseases depend, are stile nuovo, French is his holiday language, that he wears
for his pleasure and ornament, and uses English only for his business and necessary occasions.
He is like a Scotchman; though he is born a subject of his own nation, he carries a French
faction within him.

He is never quiet, but sits as the wind is said to do when it is most in motion. His head is
as full of maggots as a pastoral poet's flock. He was begotten, like one of Pliny's Portuguese
horses, by the wind. The truth is, he ought not to have been reared; for, being calved in the
increase of the moon, his head is troubled with a ----

N.B.--The last word not legible.

AN HARANGUER

Is one that is so delighted with the sweet sound of his own tongue, that William Prynne will
sooner lend an ear than he to anything else. His measure of talk is till his wind is spent,
and then he is not silenced, but becalmed. His ears have catched the itch of his tongue, and
though he scratch them, like a beast with his hoof, he finds a pleasure in it. A silenced minister
has more mercy on the Government in a secure conventicle than he has on the company that he
is in. He shakes a man by the ear, as a dog does a pig, and never loses his hold till he has
tired himself as well as his patient. He does not talk to a man, but attacks him, and whomsoever
he can get into his hands he lays violent language on. If he can he will run a man up against
a wall and hold him at a bay by the buttons, which he handles as bad as he does his person
or the business he treats upon. When he finds him begin to sink he holds him by the clothes,
and feels him as a butcher does a calf before he kills him. He is a walking pillory, and crucifies
more ears than a dozen standing ones. He will hold any argument rather than his tongue, and
maintain both sides at his own charge; for he will tell you what you will say, though perhaps
he does not intend to give you leave. He lugs men by the ears, as they correct children in
Scotland, and will make them tingle while he talks with them, as some say they will do when
a man is talked of in his absence. When he talks to a man he comes up close to him, and, like
an old soldier, lets fly in his face, or claps the bore of his pistol to his ear and whispers
aloud, that he may be sure not to miss his mark. His tongue is always in motion, though very
seldom to the purpose, like a barber's scissors, which are always snipping, as well when they
do not cut as when they do. His tongue is like a bagpipe-drone, that has no stop, but makes
a continual ugly noise, as long as he can squeeze any wind out of himself. He never leaves
a man until he has run him down, and then he winds a death over him. A sow-gelder's horn is
not so terrible to dogs and cats as he is to all that know him. His way of argument is to talk
all and hear no contradiction. First he gives his antagonist the length of his wind, and then,
let him make his approaches if he can, he is sure to be beforehand with him. Of all dissolute
diseases the running of the tongue is the worst, and the hardest to be cured. If he happen
at any time to be at a stand, and any man else begins to speak, he presently drowns him with
his noise, as a water-dog makes a duck dive; for when you think he has done he falls on and
lets fly again, like a gun that will discharge nine times with one loading. He is a rattlesnake,
that with his noise gives men warning to avoid him, otherwise he will make them wish they had.
He is, like a bell, good for nothing but to make a noise. He is like common fame, that speaks
most and knows least, Lord Brooks, or a wild goose always cackling when he is upon the wing.
His tongue is like any kind of carriage, the less weight it bears the faster and easier it
goes. He is so full of words that they run over and are thrown away to no purpose, and so empty
of things or sense that his dryness has made his leaks so wide whatsoever is put in him runs
out immediately. He is so long in delivering himself that those that hear him desire to be
delivered too or despatched out of their pain. He makes his discourse the longer with often
repeating to be short, and talking much of in fine, never means to come near it.

A RANTER

Is a fanatic Hector that has found out, by a very strange way of new light, how to transform
all the devils into angels of light; for he believes all religion consists in looseness, and
that sin and vice is the whole duty of man. He puts off the old man, but puts it on again upon
the new one, and makes his pagan vices serve to preserve his Christian virtues from wearing
out, for if he should use his piety and devotion always it would hold out but a little while.
He is loth that iniquity and vice should be thrown away as long as there may be good use for
it; for if that which is wickedly gotten may be disposed to pious uses, why should not wickedness
itself as well? He believes himself shot-free against all the attempts of the devil, the world,
and the flesh, and therefore is not afraid to attack them in their own quarters and encounter
them at their own weapons. For as strong bodies may freely venture to do and suffer that, without
any hurt to themselves, which would destroy those that are feeble, so a saint that is strong
in grace may boldly engage himself in those great sins and iniquities that would easily damn
a weak brother, and yet come off never the worse. He believes deeds of darkness to be only
those sins that are committed in private, not those that are acted openly and owned. He is
but a hypocrite turned the wrong side outward; for, as the one wears his vices within and the
other without, so when they are counterchanged the ranter becomes a hypocrite, and the hypocrite
an able ranter. His church is the devil's chapel, for it agrees exactly both in doctrine and
discipline with the best reformed bawdy-houses. He is a monster produced by the madness of
this latter age; but if it had been his fate to have been whelped in old Rome he had passed
for a prodigy, and been received among raining of stones and the speaking of bulls, and would
have put a stop to all public affairs until he had been expiated. Nero clothed Christians in
the skins of wild beasts, but he wraps wild beasts in the skins of Christians.

AN AMORIST

Is an artificer or maker of love, a sworn servant to all ladies, like an officer in a corporation.
Though no one in particular will own any title to him, yet he never fails upon all occasions
to offer his services, and they as seldom to turn it back again untouched. He commits nothing
with them but himself to their good graces; and they recommend him back again to his own, where
he finds so kind a reception that he wonders how he does fail of it everywhere else. His passion
is as easily set on fire as a fart, and as soon out again. He is charged and primed with love-powder
like a gun, and the least sparkle of an eye gives fire to him and off he goes, but seldom or
never hits the mark. He has commonplaces, and precedents of repartees, and letters for all
occasions, and falls as readily into his method of making love as a parson does into his form
of matrimony. He converses, as angels are said to do, by intuition, and expresses himself by
sighs most significantly. He follows his visits as men do their business, and is very industrious
in waiting on the ladies where his affairs lie; among which those of greatest concernment are
questions and commands, purposes, and other such received forms of wit and conversation, in
which he is so deeply studied that in all questions and doubts that arise he is appealed to,
and very learnedly declares which was the most true and primitive way of proceeding in the
purest times. For these virtues he never fails of his summons to all balls, where he manages
the country-dances with singular judgment, and is frequently an assistant at l'ombre; and these
are all the uses they make of his parts, beside the sport they give themselves in laughing
at him, which he takes for singular favours and interprets to his own advantage, though it
never goes further; for, all his employments being public, he is never admitted to any private
services, and they despise him as not woman's meat; for he applies to too many to be trusted
by any one, as bastards by having many fathers have none at all. He goes often mounted in a
coach as a convoy to guard the ladies, to take the dust in Hyde Park, where by his prudent
management of the glass windows he secures them from beggars, and returns fraught with China-oranges
and ballads. Thus he is but a gentleman-usher-general, and his business is to carry one lady's
services to another, and bring back the other's in exchange.

AN ASTROLOGER

Is one that expounds upon the planets and teaches to construe the accidents by the due joining
of stars in construction. He talks with them by dumb signs, and can tell what they mean by
their twinkling and squinting upon one another as well as they themselves. He is a spy upon
the stars, and can tell what they are doing by the company they keep and the houses they frequent.
They have no power to do anything alone until so many meet as will make a quorum. He is clerk
of the committee to them, and draws up all their orders that concern either public or private
affairs. He keeps all their accounts for them, and sums them up, not by debtor, but creditor
alone--a more compendious way. They do ill to make them have so much authority over the earth,
which perhaps has as much as any one of them but the sun, and as much right to sit and vote
in their councils as any other. But because there are but seven Electors of the German Empire,
they will allow of no more to dispose of all other, and most foolishly and unnaturally dispossess
their own parent of its inheritance rather than acknowledge a defect in their own rules. These
rules are all they have to show for their title, and yet not one of them can tell whether those
they had them from came honestly by them. Virgil's description of fame, that reaches from earth
to the stars, tam ficti pravique tenax, to carry lies and knavery, will serve astrologers without
any sensible variation. He is a fortune-seller, a retailer of destiny, and petty chapman to
the planets. He casts nativities as gamesters do false dice, and by slurring and palming sextile,
quartile, and trine, like six, quatre, trois, can throw what chance he pleases. He sets a figure
as cheats do a main at hazard, and gulls throw away their money at it. He fetches the grounds
of his art so far off, as well from reason as the stars, that, like a traveller, he is allowed
to lie by authority; and as beggars that have no money themselves believe all others have,
and beg of those that have as little as themselves, so the ignorant rabble believe in him though
he has no more reason for what he professes than they.

A LAWYER

Is a retailer of justice that uses false lights, false weights, and false measures. He measures
right and wrong by his retaining fee, and, like a French duellist, engages on that side that
first bespeaks him, though it be against his own brother; not because it is right, but merely
upon a punctilio of profit, which is better than honour to him, because riches will buy nobility,
and nobility nothing, as having no intrinsic value. He sells his opinion, and engages to maintain
the title against all that claim under him, but no further. He puts it off upon his word, which
he believes himself not bound to make good, because when he has parted with his right to it,
it is no longer his. He keeps no justice for his own use, as being a commodity of his own growth,
which he never buys, but only sells to others; and as no man goes worse shod than the shoemaker,
so no man is more out of justice than he that gets his living by it. He draws bills as children
do lots at a lottery, and is paid as much for blanks as prizes. He undoes a man with the same
privilege as a doctor kills him, and is paid as well for it as if he preserved him, in which
he is very impartial, but in nothing else. He believes it no fault in himself to err in judgment,
because that part of the law belongs to the judge and not to him. His best opinions and his
worst are all of a price, like good wine and bad in a tavern, in which he does not deal so
fairly as those who, if they know what you are willing to bestow, can tell how to fit you accordingly.
When his law lies upon his hands he will afford a good pennyworth, and rather pettifog and
turn common barreter than be out of employment. His opinion is one thing while it is his own
and another when it is paid for; for, the property being altered, the case alters also. When
his counsel is not for his client's turn he will never take it back again, though it be never
the worse, nor allow him anything for it, yet will sell the same over and over again to as
many as come to him for it. His pride increases with his practice, and the fuller of business
he is, like a sack, the bigger he looks. He crowds to the Bar like a pig through a hedge, and
his gown is fortified with flankers about the shoulders to guard his ears from being galled
with elbows. He draws his bills more extravagant and unconscionable than a tailor; for if you
cut off two-thirds in the beginning, middle, or end, that which is left will be more reasonable
and nearer to sense than the whole, and yet he is paid for all; for when he draws up a business,
like a captain that makes false musters, he produces as many loose and idle words as he can
possibly come by until he has received for them, and then turns them off and retains only those
that are to the purpose. This he calls drawing of breviates. All that appears of his studies
is, in short, time converted into waste-paper, tailor's measures, and heads for children's
drums. He appears very violent against the other side, and rails to please his client as they
do children, "Give me a blow and I'll strike him, ah, naughty!" &c. This makes him seem very
zealous for the good of his client, and though the cause go against him he loses no credit
by it, especially if he fall foul on the counsel of the other side, which goes for no more
among them than it does with those virtuous persons that quarrel and fight in the streets to
pick the pockets of those that look on. He hangs men's estates and fortunes on the slightest
curiosities and feeblest niceties imaginable, and undoes them like the story of breaking a
horse's back with a feather or sinking a ship with a single drop of water, as if right and
wrong were only notional and had no relation at all to practice (which always requires more
solid foundations), or reason and truth did wholly consist in the right spelling of letters,
whenas the subtler things are the nearer they are to nothing, so the subtler words and notions
are the nearer they are to nonsense. He overruns Latin and French with greater barbarism than
the Goths did Italy and France, and makes as mad a confusion of language by mixing both with
English. Nor does he use English much better, for he clogs it so with words that the sense
becomes as thick as puddle, and is utterly lost to those that have not the trick of skipping
over where it is impertinent. He has but one termination for all Latin words, and that's a
dash. He is very just to the first syllables of words, but always bobtails the last, in which
the sense most of all consists, like a cheat that does a man all right at the first that he
may put a trick upon him in the end. He is an apprentice to the law without a master, is his
own pupil, and has no tutor but himself, that is a fool. He will screw and wrest law as unmercifully
as a tumbler does his body to lick up money with his tongue. He is a Swiss that professes mercenary
arms, will fight for him that gives him best pay, and, like an Italian bravo, will fall foul
on any man's reputation that he receives a retaining fee against. If he could but maintain
his opinions as well as they do him, he were a very just and righteous man; but when he has
made his most of it, he leaves it, like his client, to shift for itself. He fetches money out
of his throat like a juggler; and as the rabble in the country value gentlemen by their housekeeping
and their eating, so is he supposed to have so much law as he has kept commons, and the abler
to deal with clients by how much the more he has devoured of Inns-of-Court mutton; and it matters
not whether he keep his study so he has but kept commons. He never ends a suit, but prunes
it that it may grow the faster and yield a greater increase of strife. The wisdom of the law
is to admit of all the petty, mean, real injustices in the world, to avoid imaginary possible
great ones that may perhaps fall out. His client finds the Scripture fulfilled in him, that
it is better to part with a coat too than go to law for a cloak; for, as the best laws are
made of the worst manners, even so are the best lawyers of the worst men. He hums about Westminster
Hall, and returns home with his pockets like a bee with his thighs laden; and that which Horace
says of an ant, Ore trahit quodcunque potest, atque addit acervo, is true of him, for he gathers
all his heap with the labour of his mouth rather than his brain and hands. He values himself,
as a carman does his horse, by the money he gets, and looks down upon all that gain less as
scoundrels. The law is like that double-formed, ill-begotten monster that was kept in an intricate
labyrinth and fed with men's flesh, for it devours all that come within the mazes of it and
have not a clue to find the way out again. He has as little kindness for the Statute Law as
Catholics have for the Scripture, but adores the Common Law as they do tradition, and both
for the very same reason; for the Statute Law being certain, written and designed to reform
and prevent corruptions and abuses in the affairs of the world (as the Scriptures are in matters
of religion), he finds it many times a great obstruction to the advantage and profit of his
practice; whereas the Common Law, being unwritten, or written in an unknown language which
very few understand but himself, is the more pliable and easy to serve all his purposes, being
utterly exposed to what interpretation and construction his interest and occasions shall at
any time incline him to give it; and differs only from arbitrary power in this, that the one
gives no account of itself at all, and the other such a one as is perhaps worse than none,
that is implicit and not to be understood, or subject to what constructions he pleases to put
upon it:--

   Great critics in a noverint universi
   Know all men by these presents how to curse ye;
   Pedants of said and foresaid, and both Frenches,
   Pedlars, and pokie, may those rev'rend benches
   Y' aspire to be the stocks, and may ye be
   No more call'd to the Bar, but pillory;
   Thither in triumph may ye backward ride
   To have your ears most justly crucified,
   And cut so close until there be not leather
   Enough to stick a pen in left of either;
   Then will your consciences, your ears, and wit
   Be like indentures tripartite cut fit.
   May your horns multiply and grow as great
   As that which does blow grace before your meat;
   May varlets be your barbers now, and do
   The same to you they have been done unto;
   That's law and gospel too; may it prove true,
   Then they shall do pump-justice upon you;
   And when y' are shaved and powder'd you shall fall,
   Thrown o'er the Bar, as they did o'er the wall,
   Never to rise again, unless it be
   To hold your hands up for your roguery;
   And when you do so may they be no less
   Sear'd by the hangman than your consciences.
   May your gowns swarm until you can determine
   The strife no more between yourselves and vermin
   Than you have done between your clients' purses;
   Now kneel and take the last and worst of curses--
     May you be honest when it is too late;
     That is, undone the only way you hate.

AN EPIGRAMMATIST

Is a poet of small wares, whose Muse is short-winded and quickly out of breath. She flies like
a goose, that is no sooner upon the wing but down again. He was originally one of those authors
that used to write upon white walls, from whence his works, being collected and put together,
pass in the world like single money among those that deal in small matters. His wit is like
fire in a flint, that is nothing while it is in, and nothing again as soon as it is out. He
treats of all things and persons that come in his way, but like one that draws in little, much
less than the life:--

   His bus'ness is t' inveigh and flatter,
   Like parcel parasite and satyr.

He is a kind of vagabond writer, that is never out of his way, for nothing is beside the purpose
with him that proposes none at all. His works are like a running banquet, that have much variety
but little of a sort, for he deals in nothing but scraps and parcels, like a tailor's broker.
He does not write, but set his mark upon things, and gives no account in words at length, but
only in figures. All his wit reaches but to four lines or six at the most; and if he ever venture
farther it tires immediately, like a post-horse, that will go no farther than his wonted stages.
Nothing agrees so naturally with his fancy as bawdry, which he dispenses in small pittances
to continue his reader still in an appetite for more.

A FANATIC.

St. Paul was thought by Festus to be mad with too much learning, but the fanatics of our times
are mad with too little. He chooses himself one of the elect, and packs a committee of his
own party to judge the twelve tribes of Israel. The apostles in the primitive Church worked
miracles to confirm and propagate their doctrine, but he thinks to confirm his by working at
his trade. He assumes a privilege to impress what text of Scripture he pleases for his own
use, and leaves those that make against him for the use of the wicked. His religion, that tends
only to faction and sedition, is neither fit for peace nor war, but times of a condition between
both, like the sails of a ship that will not endure a storm and are of no use at all in a calm.
He believes it has enough of the primitive Christian if it be but persecuted as that was, no
matter for the piety or doctrine of it, as if there were nothing required to prove the truth
of a religion but the punishment of the professors of it, like the old mathematicians that
were never believed to be profoundly knowing in their profession until they had run through
all punishments and just escaped the fork. He is all for suffering for religion, but nothing
for acting; for he accounts good works no better than encroachments upon the merits of free
believing, and a good life the most troublesome and unthrifty way to heaven. He canonises himself
a saint in his own lifetime, as the more sure and certain way, and less troublesome to others.
He outgrows ordinances, as an apprentice that has served out his time does his indentures,
and being a freeman, supposes himself at liberty to set up what religion he pleases. He calls
his own supposed abilities gifts, and disposes of himself like a foundation designed to pious
uses, although, like others of the same kind, they are always diverted to other purposes. He
owes all his gifts to his ignorance, as beggars do the alms they receive to their poverty.
They are such as the fairies are said to drop in men's shoes, and when they are discovered
to give them over and confer no more; for when his gifts are discovered they vanish and come
to nothing. He is but a puppet saint that moves he knows not how, and his ignorance is the
dull, leaden weight that puts all his parts in motion. His outward man is a saint and his inward
man a reprobate, for he carries his vices in his heart and his religion in his face.

A PROSELYTE.

A priest stole him out of the cradle, like the fairies, and left a fool and changeling in his
place. He new dyes his religion, and commonly into a sadder and darker colour than it was before.
He gives his opinion the somersault and turns the wrong side of it outwards. He does not mend
his manners, but botch them with patches of another stuff and colour. Change of religion, being
for the most part used by those who understand not why one religion is better than another,
is like changing of money two sixpences for a shilling; both are of equal value, but the change
is for convenience or humour. There is nothing more difficult than a change of religion for
the better, for as all alterations in judgment are derived from a precedent confessed error,
that error is more probably like to produce another than anything of so different a nature
as truth. He imposes upon himself in believing the infirmity of his nature to be the strength
of his judgment, and thinks he changes his religion when he changes himself, and turns as naturally
from one thing to another as a maggot does to a fly. He is a kind of freebooty and plunder,
or one head of cattle driven by the priests of one religion out of the quarters of another,
and they value him above two of their own; for, beside the glory of the exploit, they have
a better title to him (as he that is conquered is more in the power of him that subdued him
than he that was born his subject), and they expect a freer submission from one that takes
quarter than from those that were under command before. His weakness or ignorance, or both,
are commonly the chief causes of his conversion; for if he be a man of a profession that has
no hopes to thrive upon the account of mere merit, he has no way so easy and certain as to
betake himself to some forbidden church, where, for the common cause's sake, he finds so much
brotherly love and kindness, that they will rather employ him than one of another persuasion
though more skilful, and he gains by turning and winding his religion as tradesmen do by their
stocks. The priest has commonly the very same design upon him, for he that is not able to go
to the charges of his conversion may live free enough from being attacked by any side. He was
troubled with a vertigo in his conscience, and nothing but change of religion, like change
of air, could cure him. He is like a sick man that can neither lie still in his bed nor turn
himself but as he is helped by others. He is like a revolter in an army; and as men of honour
and commanders seldom prove such, but common soldiers, men of mean condition, frequently to
mend their fortunes, so in religion clergymen who are commanders seldom prevail upon one another,
and when they do, the proselyte is usually one who had no reputation among his own party before,
and after a little trial finds as little among those to whom he revolts.

A CLOWN

Is a centaur, a mixture of man and beast, like a monster engendered by unnatural copulation,
a crab engrafted on an apple. He was neither made by art nor nature, but in spite of both,
by evil custom.. His perpetual conversation with beasts has rendered him one of them, and he
is among men but a naturalised brute. He appears by his language, genius, and behaviour to
be an alien to mankind, a foreigner to humanity, and of so opposite a genius that 'tis easier
to make a Spaniard a Frenchman than to reduce him to civility. He disdains every man that he
does not fear, and only respects him that has done him hurt or can do it. He is like Nebuchadnezzar
after he had been a month at grass, but will never return to be a man again as he did, if he
might, for he despises all manner of lives but his own, unless it be his horse's, to whom he
is but valet de chambre. He never shows himself humane or kind in anything but when he pimps
to his cow or makes a match for his mare; in all things else he is surly and rugged, and does
not love to be pleased himself, which makes him hate those that do him any good. He is a stoic
to all passions but fear, envy, and malice, and hates to do any good though it cost him nothing.
He abhors a gentleman because he is most unlike himself, and repines as much at his manner
of living as if he maintained him. He murmurs at him as the saints do at the wicked, as if
he kept his right from him, for he makes his clownery a sect and damns all that are not of
his Church. He manures the earth like a dunghill, but lets himself lie fallow, for no improvement
will do good upon him. Cain was the first of his family, and he does his endeavour not to degenerate
from the original churlishness of his ancestor. He that was fetched from the plough to be made
dictator had not half his pride and insolence, nor Caligula's horse that was made consul. All
the worst names that are given to men are borrowed from him, as villain, deboise, peasant,
&c. He wears his clothes like a hide, and shifts them no oftener than a beast does his hair.
He is a beast that Gesner never thought of.

A WOOER

Stands candidate for cuckold, and if he miss of it, it is none of his fault, for his merit
is sufficiently known. He is commonly no lover, but able to pass for a most desperate one where
he finds it is like to prove of considerable advantage to him, and therefore has passions lying
by him of all sizes proportionable to all women's fortunes, and can be indifferent, melancholy,
or stark-mad according as their estates give him occasion; and when he finds it is to no purpose,
can presently come to himself again and try another. He prosecutes his suit against his mistress
as clients do a suit in law, and does nothing without the advice of his learned counsel, omits
no advantage for want of soliciting, and, when he gets her consent, overthrows her. He endeavours
to match his estate, rather than himself, to the best advantage, and if his mistress's fortune
and his do but come to an agreement, their persons are easily satisfied, the match is soon
made up, and a cross marriage between all four is presently concluded. He is not much concerned
in his lady's virtues, for if the opinion of the Stoics be true, that the virtuous are always
rich, there is no doubt but she that is rich must be virtuous. He never goes without a list
in his pocket of all the widows and virgins about the town, with particulars of their jointures,
portions, and inheritances, that if one miss he may not be without a reserve; for he esteems
Cupid very improvident if he has not more than two strings to his bow. When he wants a better
introduction he begins his addresses to the chambermaid, like one that sues the tenant to eject
the landlord, and according as he thrives there makes his approaches to the mistress. He can
tell readily what the difference is between jointure with tuition of infant, land, and money
of any value, and what the odds is to a penny between them all, either to take or leave. He
does not so much go a-wooing as put in his claim, as if all men of fortune had a fair title
to all women of the same quality, and therefore are said to demand them in marriage. But if
he be a wooer of fortune, that designs to raise himself by it, he makes wooing his vocation,
deals with all matchmakers, that are his setters, is very painful in his calling, and if his
business succeed, steals her away and commits matrimony with a felonious intent. He has a great
desire to beget money on the body of a woman, and as for other issue is very indifferent, and
cares not how old she be so she be not past money-bearing.

AN IMPUDENT MAN

Is one whose want of money and want of wit have engaged him beyond his abilities. The little
knowledge he has of himself, being suitable to the little he has in his profession, has made
him believe himself fit for it. This double ignorance has made him set a value upon himself,
as he that wants a great deal appears in a better condition than he that wants a little. This
renders him confident and fit for any undertaking, and sometimes (such is the concurrent ignorance
of the world) he prospers in it, but oftener miscarries and becomes ridiculous; yet this advantage
he has, that as nothing can make him see his error, so nothing can discourage him that way,
for he is fortified with his ignorance, as barren and rocky places are by their situation,
and he will rather believe that all men want judgment than himself. For, as no man is pleased
that has an ill opinion of himself, Nature, that finds out remedies herself, and his own ease,
render him insensible of his defects. From hence he grows impudent; for, as men judge by comparison,
he knows as little what it is to be defective as what it is to be excellent. Nothing renders
men modest but a just knowledge how to compare themselves with others; and where that is wanting
impudence supplies the place of it, for there is no vacuum in the minds of men, and commonly,
like other things in Nature, they swell more with rarefaction than condensation. The more men
know of the world, the worse opinion they have of it; and the more they understand of truth,
they are better acquainted with the difficulties of it, and consequently are the less confident
in their assertions, especially in matters of probability, which commonly is squint-eyed and
looks nine ways at once. It is the office of a just judge to hear both parties, and he that
considers but the one side of things can never make a just judgment, though he may by chance
a true one. Impudence is the bastard of ignorance, not only unlawfully but incestuously begotten
by a man upon his own understanding, and laid by himself at his own door, a monster of unnatural
production; for shame is as much the propriety of human nature, though overseen by the philosophers,
and perhaps more than reason, laughing, or looking asquint, by which they distinguish man from
beasts; and the less men have of it the nearer they approach to the nature of brutes. Modesty
is but a noble jealousy of honour, and impudence the prostitution of it; for he whose face
is proof against infamy must be as little sensible of glory. His forehead, like a voluntary
cuckold's, is by his horns made proof against a blush. Nature made man barefaced, and civil
custom has preserved him so; but he that's impudent does wear a vizard more ugly and deformed
than highway thieves disguise themselves with. Shame is the tender moral conscience of good
men. When there is a crack in the skull, Nature herself, with a tough horny callous repairs
the breach; so a flawed intellect is with a brawny callous face supplied. The face is the dial
of the mind; and where they do not go together, 'tis a sign that one or both are out of order.
He that is impudent is like a merchant that trades upon his credit without a stock, and if
his debts were known would break immediately. The inside of his head is like the outside, and
his peruke as naturally of his own growth as his wit. He passes in the world like a piece of
counterfeit coin, looks well enough until he is rubbed and worn with use, and then his copper
complexion begins to appear, and nobody will take him but by owl-light.

AN IMITATOR

Is a counterfeit stone, and the larger and fairer he appears the more apt he is to be discovered;
whilst small ones, that pretend to no great value, pass unsuspected. He is made like a man
in arras-hangings, after some great master's design, though far short of the original. He is
like a spectrum or walking spirit, that assumes the shape of some particular person and appears
in the likeness of something that he is not because he has no shape of his own to put on. He
has a kind of monkey and baboon wit, that takes after some man's way whom he endeavours to
imitate, but does it worse than those things that are naturally his own; for he does not learn,
but take his pattern out, as a girl does her sampler. His whole life is nothing but a kind
of education, and he is always learning to be something that he is not nor ever will be. For
Nature is free, and will not be forced out of her way, nor compelled to do anything against
her own will and inclination. He is but a retainer to wit and a follower of his master, whose
badge he wears everywhere, and therefore his way is called servile imitation. His fancy is
like the innocent lady's, who, by looking on the picture of a Moor that hung in her chamber,
conceived a child of the same complexion; for all his conceptions are produced by the pictures
of other men's imaginations, and by their features betray whose bastards they are. His Muse
is not inspired, but infected with another man's fancy; and he catches his wit, like the itch,
of somebody else that had it before, and when he writes he does but scratch himself. His head
is, like his hat, fashioned upon a block and wrought in a shape of another man's invention.
He melts down his wit and casts it in a mould; and as metals melted and cast are not so firm
and solid as those that are wrought with the hammer, so those compositions that are founded
and run in other men's moulds are always more brittle and loose than those that are forged
in a man's own brain. He binds himself apprentice to a trade which he has no stock to set up
with, if he should serve out his time and live to be made free. He runs a-whoring after another
man's inventions, for he has none of his own to tempt him to an incontinent thought, and begets
a kind of mongrel breed that never comes to good.

A SOT

Has found out a way to renew not only his youth, but his childhood, by being stewed, like old
Aeson, in liquor; much better than the virtuoso's way of making old dogs young again, for he
is a child again at second hand, never the worse for the wearing, but as purely fresh, simple,
and weak as he was at first. He has stupefied his senses by living in a moist climate, according
to the poet, Boeotum in crasso jurares aëre natum. He measures his time by glasses of wine,
as the ancients did by water-glasses; and as Hermes Trismegistus is said to have kept the first
account of hours by the pissing of a beast dedicated to Serapis, he revives that custom in
his own practice, and observes it punctually in passing his time. He is like a statue placed
in a moist air; all the lineaments of humanity are mouldered away, and there is nothing left
of him but a rude lump of the shape of a man, and no one part entire. He has drowned himself
in a butt of wine, as the Duke of Clarence was served by his brother. He has washed down his
soul and pissed it out, and lives now only by the spirit of wine or brandy, or by an extract
drawn off his stomach. He has swallowed his humanity and drunk himself into a beast, as if
he had pledged Madam Circe and done her right. He is drowned in a glass like a fly, beyond
the cure of crumbs of bread or the sunbeams. He is like a springtide; when he is drunk to his
high-water-mark he swells and looks big, runs against the stream, and overflows everything
that stands in his way; but when the drink within him is at an ebb, he shrinks within his banks
and falls so low and shallow that cattle may pass over him. He governs all his actions by the
drink within him, as a Quaker does by the light within him; has a different humour for every
nick his drink rises to, like the degrees of the weather-glass; and proceeds from ribaldry
and bawdry to politics, religion, and quarrelling, until it is at the top, and then it is the
dog-days with him; from whence he falls down again until his liquor is at the bottom, and then
he lies quiet and is frozen up.

A JUGGLER

Is an artificial magician, that with his fingers casts a mist before the eyes of the rabble
and makes his balls walk invisible which way he pleases. He does his feats behind a table,
like a Presbyterian in a conventicle, but with much more dexterity and cleanliness, and therefore
all sorts of people are better pleased with him. Most professions and mysteries derive the
practice of all their faculties from him, but use them with less ingenuity and candour; for
the more he deceives those he has to do with the better he deals with them; while those that
imitate him in a lawful calling are far more dishonest, for the more they impose the more they
abuse. All his cheats are primitive, and therefore more innocent and of greater purity than
those that are by tradition from hand to hand derived to them; for he conveys money out of
one man's pocket into another's with much more sincerity and ingenuity than those that do it
in a legal way, and for a less considerable, though more conscientious, reward. He will fetch
money out of his own throat with a great deal more of delight and satisfaction to those that
pay him for it than any haranguer whatsoever, and make it chuck in his throat better than a
lawyer that has talked himself hoarse, and swallowed so many fees that he is almost choked.
He will spit fire and blow smoke out of his mouth with less harm and inconvenience to the Government
than a seditious holder-forth, and yet all these disown and scorn him, even as men that are
grown great and rich despise the meanness of their originals. He calls upon "Presto begone,"
and the Babylonian's tooth, to amuse and divert the rabble from looking too narrowly into his
tricks; while a zealous hypocrite, that calls heaven and earth to witness his, turns up the
eye and shakes the head at his idolatry and profanation. He goes the circuit to all country
fairs, where he meets with good strolling practice, and comes up to Bartholomew Fair as his
Michaelmas term; after which he removes to some great thoroughfare, where he hangs out himself
in effigy, like a Dutch malefactor, that all those that pass by may for their money have a
trial of his skill. He endeavours to plant himself as near as he can to some puppet-play, monster,
or mountebank, as the most convenient situation; and when trading grows scant they join all
their forces together and make up one grand show, and admit the cutpurse and balladsinger to
trade under them, as orange-women do at a playhouse.

A ROMANCE-WRITER

Pulls down old histories to build them up finer again, after a new model of his own designing.
He takes away all the lights of truth in history to make it the fitter tutoress of life; for
Truth herself has little or nothing to do in the affairs of the world, although all matters
of the greatest weight and moment are pretended and done in her name, like a weak princess
that has only the title, and falsehood all the power. He observes one very fit decorum in dating
his histories in the days of old and putting all his own inventions upon ancient times; for
when the world was younger, it might perhaps love and fight, and do generous things at the
rate he describes them; but since it is grown old, all these heroic feats are laid by and utterly
given over, nor ever like to come in fashion again; and therefore all his images of those virtues
signify no more than the statues upon dead men's tombs, that will never make them live again.
He is like one of Homer's gods, that sets men together by the ears and fetches them off again
how he pleases; brings armies into the field like Janello's leaden soldiers; leads up both
sides himself, and gives the victory to which he pleases, according as he finds it fit the
design of his story; makes love and lovers too, brings them acquainted, and appoints meetings
when and where he pleases, and at the same time betrays them in the height of all their felicity
to miserable captivity, or some other horrid calamity; for which he makes them rail at the
gods and curse their own innocent stars when he only has done them all the injury; makes men
villains, compels them to act all barbarous inhumanities by his own directions, and after inflicts
the cruellest punishments upon them for it. He makes all his knights fight in fortifications,
and storm one another's armour before they can come to encounter body for body, and always
matches them so equally one with another that it is a whole page before they can guess which
is likely to have the better; and he that has it is so mangled that it had been better for
them both to have parted fair at first; but when they encounter with those that are no knights,
though ever so well armed and mounted, ten to one goes for nothing. As for the ladies, they
are every one the most beautiful in the whole world, and that's the reason why no one of them,
nor all together with all their charms, have power to tempt away any knight from another. He
differs from a just historian as a joiner does from a carpenter; the one does things plainly
and substantially for use, and the other carves and polishes merely for show and ornament.

A LIBELLER

Is a certain classic author that handles his subject-matter very ruggedly, and endeavours with
his own evil words to corrupt another man's good manners. All his works treat but of two things,
his own malice and another man's faults, both which he describes in very proper and pertinent
language. He is not much concerned whether what he writes be true or false; that's nothing
to his purpose, which aims only at filthy and bitter, and therefore his language is, like pictures
of the devil, the fouler the better. He robs a man of his good name, not for any good it will
do him (for he dares not own it), but merely, as a jackdaw steals money, for his pleasure.
His malice has the same success with other men's charity, to be rewarded in private; for all
he gets is but his own private satisfaction and the testimony of an evil conscience; for which,
if it be discovered, he suffers the worst kind of martyrdom and is paid with condign punishment,
so that at the best he has but his labour for his pains. He deals with a man as the Spanish
Inquisition does with heretics, clothes him in a coat painted with hellish shapes of fiends,
and so shows him to the rabble to render him the more odious. He exposes his wit like a bastard,
for the next comer to take up and put out to nurse, which it seldom fails of, so ready is every
man to contribute to the infamy of another. He is like the devil, that sows tares in the dark,
and while a man sleeps plants weeds among his corn. When he ventures to fall foul on the Government
or any great persons, if he has not a special care to keep himself, like a conjurer, safe in
his circle, he raises a spirit that falls foul on himself and carries him to limbo, where his
neck is clapped up in the hole, out of which it is never released until he has paid his ears
down on the nail for fees. He is in a worse condition than a schoolboy, for when he is discovered
he is whipped for his exercise, whether it be well or ill done; so that he takes a wrong course
to show his wit, when his best way to do so is to conceal it; otherwise he shows his folly
instead of his wit, and pays dear for the mistake.

A FACTIOUS MEMBER

Is sent out laden with the wisdom and politics of the place he serves for, and has his own
freight and custom free. He is trusted like a factor to trade for a society, but endeavours
to turn all the public to his own private advantages. He has no instructions but his pleasure,
and therefore strives to have his privileges as large. He is very wise in his politic capacity
as having a full share in the House and an implicit right to every man's reason, though he
has none of his own, which makes him appear so simple out of it. He believes all reason of
State consists in faction, as all wisdom in haranguing, of which he is so fond that he had
rather the nation should perish than continue ignorant of his great abilities that way; though
he that observes his gestures, words, and delivery will find them so perfectly agreeable to
the rules of the House that he cannot but conclude he learnt his oratory the very same way
that jackdaws and parrots practise by; for he coughs and spits and blows his nose with that
discreet and prudent caution that you would think he had buried his talent in a handkerchief,
and were now pulling it out to dispose of it to a better advantage. He stands and presumes
so much upon the privileges of the House, as if every member were a tribune of the people and
had as absolute power as they had in Rome, according to the lately established fundamental
custom and practice of their quartered predecessors of unhappy memory. He endeavours to show
his wisdom in nothing more than in appearing very much unsatisfied with the present manage
of State affairs, although he knows nothing of the reasons. So much the better, for the thing
is the more difficult, and argues his judgment and insight the greater; for any man can judge
that understands the reasons of what he does, but very few know how to judge mechanically without
understanding why or wherefore. It is sufficient to assure him that the public money has been
diverted from the proper uses it was raised for because he has had no share of it himself,
and the government ill managed because he has no hand in it, which, truly, is a very great
grievance to the people, that understand, by himself and his party, that are their representatives,
and ought to understand for them how able he is for it. He fathers all his own passions and
concerns, like bastards, on the people, because, being entrusted by them without articles or
conditions, they are bound to acknowledge whatsoever he does as their own act and deed.

A PLAY-WRITER

Of our times is like a fanatic, that has no wit in ordinary easy things, and yet attempts the
hardest task of brains in the whole world, only because, whether his play or work please or
displease, he is certain to come off better than he deserves, and find some of his own latitude
to applaud him, which he could never expect any other way, and is as sure to lose no reputation,
because he has none to venture:--

  Like gaming rooks, that never stick
   To play for hundreds upon tick,
   'Cause, if they chance to lose at play,
   They've not one halfpenny to pay;
   And, if they win a hundred pound,
   Gain, if for sixpence they compound.

Nothing encourages him more in his undertaking than his ignorance, for he has not wit enough
to understand so much as the difficulty of what he attempts; therefore he runs on boldly like
a foolhardy wit, and Fortune, that favours fools and the bold, sometimes takes notice of him
for his double capacity, and receives him into her good graces. He has one motive more, and
that is the concurrent ignorant judgment of the present age, in which his sottish fopperies
pass with applause, like Oliver Cromwell's oratory among fanatics of his own canting inclination.
He finds it easier to write in rhyme than prose, for the world being over-charged with romances,
he finds his plots, passions, and repartees ready made to his hand, and if he can but turn
them into rhyme the thievery is disguised, and they pass for his own wit and invention without
question, like a stolen cloak made into a coat or dyed into another colour. Besides this, he
makes no conscience of stealing anything that lights in his way, and borrows the advice of
so many to correct, enlarge, and amend what he has ill-favouredly patched together, that it
becomes like a thing drawn by counsel, and none of his own performance, or the son of a whore
that has no one certain father. He has very great reason to prefer verse before prose in his
compositions; for rhyme is like lace, that serves excellently well to hide the piecing and
coarseness of a bad stuff, contributes mightily to the bulk, and makes the less serve by the
many impertinences it commonly requires to make way for it, for very few are endowed with abilities
to bring it in on its own account. This he finds to be good husbandry and a kind of necessary
thrift, for they that have but a little ought to make as much of it as they can. His prologue,
which is commonly none of his own, is always better than his play, like a piece of cloth that's
fine in the beginning and coarse afterwards; though it has but one topic, and that's the same
that is used by malefactors, when they are to be tried, to except against as many of the jury
as they can.

A MOUNTEBANK

Is an epidemic physician, a doctor-errant, that keeps himself up by being, like a top, in motion,
for if he should settle he would fall to nothing immediately. He is a pedlar of medicines,
a petty chapman of cures, and tinker empirical to the body of man. He strolls about to markets
and fairs, where he mounts on the top of his shop, that is his bank, and publishes his medicines
as universal as himself; for everything is for all diseases, as himself is of all places--that
is to say, of none. His business is to show tricks and impudence. As for the cure of diseases,
it concerns those that have them, not him, further than to get their money. His pudding is
his setter that lodges the rabble for him, and then slips him, who opens with a deep mouth,
and has an ill day if he does not run down some. He baits his patient's body with his medicines,
as a rat-catcher does a room, and either poisons the disease or him. As soon as he has got
all the money and spent all the credit the rabble could spare him, he then removes to fresh
quarters where he is less known and better trusted. If but one in twenty of his medicines hit
by chance, when nature works the cure, it saves the credit of all the rest, that either do
no good or hurt; for whosoever recovers in his hands, he does the work under God; but if he
die, God does it under him: his time was come, and there's an end. A velvet jerkin is his prime
qualification, by which he is distinguished from his pudding, as he is with his cap from him.
This is the usher of his school, that draws the rabble together, and then he draws their teeth.
He administers physic with a farce, and gives his patients a preparative of dancing on the
rope, to stir the humours and prepare them for evacuation. His fool serves for his foil, and
sets him off as well as his bragging and lying. The first thing he vents is his own praise,
and then his medicines wrapped up in several papers and lies. He mounts his bank as a vaulter
does his wooden horse, and then shows tricks for his patients, as apes do for the King of Spain.
He casts the nativity of urinals, and tries diseases, like a witch, by water. He bails the
place with a jig, draws the rabble together, and then throws his hook among them. He pretends
to universal medicines; that is, such as, when all men are sick together, will cure them all,
but till then no one in particular.

A WITTOL

Is a person of great complaisance, and very civil to all that have occasion to make use of
his wife. He married a wife as a common proxy for the service of all those that are willing
to come in for their shares; he engrossed her first by wholesale, and since puts her off by
retail; he professes a form of matrimony, but utterly denies the power thereof. They that tell
tales are very unjust, for, having not put in their claims before marriage, they are bound
for ever after to hold their tongues. The reason why citizens are commonly wittols is, because
men that drive a trade and are dealers in the world seldom provide anything for their own uses
which they will not very willingly put off again for considerable profit. He believes it to
be but a vulgar error and no such disparagement as the world commonly imagines to be a cuckold;
for man, being the epitomy and representation of all creatures, cannot be said to be perfect
while he wants that badge and character which so many several species wear both for their defence
and ornament. He takes the only wise and sure course that his wife should do him no injury;
for, having his own free consent, it is not in her power that way to do him any wrong at all.
His wife is, like Eve in Paradise, married to all mankind, and yet is unsatisfied that there
are no more worlds, as Alexander the Great was. She is a person of public capacity, and rather
than not serve her country would suffer an army to march over her, as Sir Rice ap Thomas did.
Her husband and she give and take equal liberty, which preserves a perfect peace and good understanding
between both, while those that are concerned in one another's love and honour are never quiet,
but always caterwauling. He differs from a jealous man as a valiant man does from a coward,
that trembles at a danger which the other scorns and despises. He is of a true philosophical
temper, and suffers what he knows not how to avoid with a more than stoical resolution.

He is as much pleased to see many men approve his choice of his wife and has as great a kindness
for them, as opiniasters have for all those whom they find to agree with themselves in judgment
and approve the abilities of their understandings.

A LITIGIOUS MAN

Goes to law as men do to bad houses, to spend his money and satisfy his concupiscence of wrangling.
He is a constant customer to the old reverend gentlewoman Law, and believes her to be very
honest, though she picks his pockets and puts a thousand tricks and gulleries upon him. He
has a strange kindness for an action of the case, but a most passionate loyalty for the King's
writ. A well-drawn bill and answer will draw him all the world over, and a breviate as far
as the Line. He enters the lists at Westminster like an old tiller, runs his course in law,
and breaks an oath or two instead of a lance; and if he can but unhorse the defendant and get
the sentence of the judges on his side, he marches off in triumph. He prefers a cry of lawyers
at the Bar before any pack of the best-mouthed dogs in all the North. He has commonly once
a term a trial of skill with some other professor of the noble science of contention at the
several weapons of bill and answer, forgery, perjury, subornation, champarty, affidavit, common
barretry, maintenance, &c., and though he come off with the worst, he does not greatlv care
so he can but have another bout for it. He fights with bags of money as they did heretofore
with sand-bags, and he that has the heaviest has the advantage and knocks down the other, right
or wrong and he suffers the penalties of the law for having no more money to show in the case.
He is a client by his order and votary of the long robe, and though he were sure the devil
invented it to hide his cloven feet, he has the greater reverence for it; for, as evil manners
produce good laws, the worse the inventor was the better the thing may be. He keeps as many
Knights of the Post to swear for him, as the King does poor knights at Windsor to pray for
him. When he is defendant and like to be worsted in a suit, he puts in a cross bill and becomes
plaintiff; for the plainant is eldest hand, and has not only that advantage, but is understood
to be the better friend to the Court, and is considered for it accordingly.

A HUMOURIST

Is a peculiar fantastic that has a wonderful natural affection to some particular kind of folly,
to which he applies himself and in time becomes eminent. 'Tis commonly some outlying whimsy
of Bedlam, that, being tame and unhurtful, is suffered to go at liberty. The more serious he
is the more ridiculous he becomes, and at the same time pleases himself in earnest and others
in jest. He knows no mean, for that is inconsistent with all humour, which is never found but
in some extreme or other. Whatsoever he takes to he is very full of, and believes every man
else to be so too, as if his own taste were the same in every man's palate. If he be a virtuoso,
he applies himself with so much earnestness to what he undertakes that he puts his reason out
of joint and strains his judgment; and there is hardly anything in the world so slight or serious
that some one or other has not squandered away his brains and time and fortune upon to no other
purpose but to be ridiculous. He is exempted from a dark room and a doctor, because there is
no danger in his frenzy; otherwise he has as good a title to fresh straw as another. Humour
is but a crookedness of the mind, a disproportioned swelling of the brain, that draws the nourishment
from the other parts to stuff an ugly and deformed crup-shoulder. If it have the luck to meet
with many of its own temper, instead of being ridiculous it becomes a church, and from jest
grows to earnest.

A LEADER OF A FACTION

Sets the psalm, and all his party sing after him. He is like a figure in arithmetic; the more
ciphers he stands before the more his value amounts to. He is a great haranguer, talks himself
into authority, and, like a parrot, climbs with his beak. He appears brave in the head of his
party, but braver in his own; for vainglory leads him, as he does them, and both, many times
out of the King's highway, over hedges and ditches, to find out by-ways and shorter cuts, which
generally prove the farthest about, but never the nearest home again. He is so passionate a
lover of the Liberty of the People that his fondness turns to jealousy. He interprets every
trifle in the worst sense, to the prejudice of her honesty, and is so full of caprices and
scruples that, if he had his will, he would have her shut up and never suffered to go abroad
again, if not made away, for her incontinence. All his politics are speculative and for the
most part impracticable, full of curious niceties, that tend only to prevent future imaginary
inconveniences with greater real and present. He is very superstitious of having the formalities
and punctilios of law held sacred, that, while they are performing, those that would destroy
the very being of it may have time to do their business or escape. He bends all his forces
against those that are above him, and, like a free-born English mastiff, plays always at the
head. He gathers his party as fanatics do a church, and admits all his admirers how weak and
slight soever; for he believes it is argument of wisdom enough in them to admire, or, as he
has it, to understand him. When he has led his faction into any inconvenience they all run
into his mouth, as young snakes do into the old ones, and he defends them with his oratory
as well as he is able; for all his confidence depends upon his tongue more than his brain or
heart, and if that fail the others surrender immediately; for though David says it is a two-edged
sword, a wooden dagger is a better weapon to fight with. His judgment is like a nice balance
that will turn with the twentieth part of a grain, but a little using renders it false, and
it is not so good for use as one that will not stir without a greater weight.

A DEBAUCHED MAN

Saves the devil a labour and leads himself into temptation, being loth to lose his good favour
in giving him any trouble where he can do the business himself without his assistance, which
he very prudently reserves for matters of greater concernment. He governs himself in an arbitrary
way, and is absolute, without being confined to anything but his own will and pleasure, which
he makes his law. His life is all recreation, and his diversions nothing but turning from one
vice, that he is weary of, to entertain himself with another that is fresh. He lives above
the state of his body as well as his fortune, and runs out of his health and money as if he
had made a match and betted on the race, or bid the devil take the hindmost. He is an amphibious
animal, that lives in two elements, wet and dry, and never comes out of the first but, like
a sea-calf, to sleep on the shore. His language is very suitable to his conversation, and he
talks as loosely as he lives. Ribaldry and profanation are his doctrine and use, and what he
professes publicly he practises very carefully in his life and conversation; not like those
clergymen that, to save the souls of other men, condemn themselves out of their own mouths.
His whole life is nothing but a perpetual lordship of misrule and a constant ramble day and
night as long as it lasts, which is not according to the course of nature, but its own course;
for he cuts off the latter end of it, like a pruned vine, that it may bear the more wine although
it be the shorter. As for that which is left, he is as lavish of it as he is of everything
else; for he sleeps all day and sits up all night, that he may not see how it passes, until,
like one that travels in a litter and sleeps, he is at his journey's end before he is aware;
for he is spirited away by his vices and clapped under hatches, where he never knows whither
he is going until he is at the end of his voyage.

THE SEDITIOUS MAN

Is a civil mutineer, and as all mutinies for the most part are for pay, if it were not for
that he would never trouble himself with it. His business is to kindle and blow up discontents
against the Government, that, when they are inflamed, he may have the fairer opportunity to
rob and plunder, while those that are concerned are employed in quenching it. He endeavours
to raise tumults and, if he can, civil war--a remedy which no man that means well to his country
can endure to think on though the disease were never so desperate. He is a State mountebank,
whose business is to persuade the people that they are not well in health, that he may get
their money to make them worse. If he be a preacher, he has the advantage of all others of
his tribe, for he has a way to vent sedition by wholesale; and as the foulest purposes have
most need of the fairest pretences, so when sedition is masked under the veil of piety, religion,
conscience, and holy duty, it propagates wonderfully among the rabble, and he vents more in
an hour from the pulpit than others by news and politics can do in a week. Next him, writers
and libellers are most pernicious, for though the contagion they disperse spreads slower and
with less force than preaching, yet it lasts longer, and in time extends to more, and with
less danger to the author, who is not easily discovered if he use any care to conceal himself.
And therefore, as we see stinging-flies vex and provoke cattle most immediately before storms,
so multitudes of those kinds of vermin do always appear to stir up the people before the beginning
of all troublesome times, and nobody knows who they are or from whence they came, but only
that they were printed the present year that they may not lose the advantage of being known
to be new. Some do it only out of humour and envy, or desire to see those that are above them
pulled down and others raised in their places, as if they held it a kind of freedom to change
their governors, though they continue in the same condition themselves still, only they are
a little better pleased with it in observing the dangers greatness is exposed to. He delights
in nothing so much as civil commotions, and, like a porpoise, always plays before a storm.
Paper and tinder are both made of the same material, rags, but he converts them both into the
same again and makes his paper tinder.

THE RUDE MAN

Is an Ostro-Goth or Northern Hun, that, wheresoever he comes, invades and all the world does
overrun, without distinction of age, sex, or quality. He has no regard to anything but his
own humour, and that, he expects, should pass everywhere without asking leave or being asked
wherefore, as if he had a safe-conduct for his rudeness. He rolls up himself like a hedgehog
in his prickles, and is as intractable to all that come near him. He is an ill-designed piece,
built after the rustic order, and all his parts look too big for their height. He is so ill-contrived
that that which should be the top in all regular structures--i.e., confidence--is his foundation.
He has neither doctrine nor discipline in him, like a fanatic Church, but is guided by the
very same spirit that dipped the herd of swine in the sea. He was not bred, but reared; not
brought up to hand, but suffered to run wild and take after his kind, as other people of the
pasture do. He takes that freedom in all places, as if he were not at liberty, but had broken
loose and expected to be tied up again. He does not eat, but feed, and when he drinks goes
to water. The old Romans beat the barbarous part of the world into civility, but if he had
lived in those times he had been invincible to all attempts of that nature, and harder to be
subdued and governed than a province. He eats his bread, according to the curse, with the sweat
of his brow, and takes as much pains at a meal as if he earned it; puffs and blows like a horse
that eats provender, and crams his throat like a screwed gun with a bullet bigger than the
bore. His tongue runs perpetually over everything that comes in its way, without regard of
what, where, or to whom, and nothing but a greater rudeness than his own can stand before it;
and he uses it to as slovenly purposes as a dog does that licks his sores and the dirt off
his feet. He is the best instance of the truth of Pythagoras's doctrine, for his soul passed
through all sorts of brute beasts before it came to him, and still retains something of the
nature of every one.

A RABBLE

Is a congregation or assembly of the States-general sent from their several and respective
shops, stalls, and garrets. They are full of controversy, and every one of a several judgment
concerning the business under present consideration, whether it be mountebank, show, hanging,
or ballad-singer. They meet, like Democritus's atoms, in vacuo, and by a fortuitous jostling
together produce the greatest and most savage beast in the whole world; for though the members
of it may have something of human nature while they are asunder, when they are put together
they have none at all, as a multitude of several sounds make one great noise unlike all the
rest, in which no one particular is distinguished. They are a great dunghill where all sorts
of dirty and nasty humours meet, stink, and ferment, for all the parts are in a perpetual tumult.
'Tis no wonder they make strange Churches, for they take naturally to any imposture, and have
a great antipathy to truth and order as being contrary to their original confusion. They are
a herd of swine possessed with a dry devil that run after hanging instead of drowning. Once
a month they go on pilgrimage to the gallows, to visit the sepulchres of their ancestors, as
the Turks do once a week. When they come there they sing psalms, quarrel, and return full of
satisfaction and narrative. When they break loose they are like a public ruin, in which the
highest parts lie undermost, and make the noblest fabrics heaps of rubbish. They are like the
sea, that's stirred into a tumult with every blast of wind that blows upon it, till it become
a watery Apennine, and heap mountain billows upon one another, as once the giants did in the
war with heaven. A crowd is their proper element, in which they make their way with their shoulders
as pigs creep through hedges. Nothing in the world delights them so much as the ruin of great
persons or any calamity in which they have no share, though they get nothing by it. They love
nothing but themselves in the likeness of one another, and, like sheep, run all that way the
first goes, especially if it be against their governors, whom they have a natural disaffection to.

A KNIGHT OF THE POST

Is a retailer of oaths, a deposition-monger, an evidence-maker, that lives by the labour of
his conscience. He takes money to kiss the Gospel, as Judas did Christ when he betrayed Him.
As a good conscience is a continual feast, so an ill one is with him his daily food. He plies
at a court of justice, as porters do at a market, and his business is to bear witness, as they
do burdens for any man that will pay them for it. He will swear his ears through an inch-board,
and wears them merely by favour of the Court; for, being amicus curiae, they are willing to
let him keep the pillory out of possession, though he has forfeited his right never so often;
for when he is once outed of his ears he is past his labour, and can do the commonwealth of
practisers no more service. He is false weight in the balance of justice, and, as a lawyer's
tongue is the tongue of the balance that inclines either way according as the weight of the
bribe inclines it, so does his. He lays one hand on the Book, and the other is in the plaintiff's
or defendant's pocket. He feeds upon his conscience, as a monkey eats his tail. He kisses the
Book to show he renounces and takes his leave of it. Many a parting kiss has he given the Gospel.
He pollutes it with his lips oftener than a hypocrite. He is a sworn officer of every court
and a great practiser, is admitted within the Bar, and makes good what the rest of the counsel
say. The attorney and solicitor fee and instruct him in the case, and he ventures as far for
his client as any man to be laid by the ears. He speaks more to the point than any other, yet
gives false ground to his brethren of the jury, that they seldom come near the jack. His oaths
are so brittle that not one in twenty of them will hold the taking, but fly as soon as they
are out. He is worse than an ill conscience, for that bears true witness, but his is always
false; and though his own conscience be said to be a thousand witnesses, he will outswear and
outface them all. He believes it no sin to bear false witness for his neighbour that pays him
for it, because it is not forbidden, but only to bear false witness against his neighbour.

AN UNDESERVING FAVOURITE

Is a piece of base metal with the King's stamp upon it, a fog raised by the sun to obscure
his own brightness. He came to preferment by unworthy offices, like one that rises with his
bum forwards, which the rabble hold to be fortunate. He got up to preferment on the wrong side,
and sits as untoward in it. He is raised rather above himself than others, or as base metals
are by the test of lead, while gold and silver continue still unmoved. He is raised and swells,
like a pimple, to be an eyesore and deform the place he holds. He is borne like a cloud on
the air of the Prince's favour, and keeps his light from the rest of his people. He rises,
like the light end of a balance, for want of weight, or as dust and feathers do, for being
light. He gets into the Prince's favour by wounding it. He is a true person of honour, for
he does but act it at the best; a lord made only to justify all the lords of May-poles, morrice-dances,
and misrule; a thing that does not live, but lie in state before he's dead, such as the heralds
dight at funerals. His Prince gives him honour out of his own stock, and estate out of his
revenue, and lessens himself in both:--

   "He is like fern, that vile unuseful weed,
   That springs equivocally, without seed."

He was not made for honour, nor it for him, which makes it sit so unfavouredly upon him. The
fore-part of himself and the hinder-part of his coach publish his distinction; as French lords,
that have haute justice--that is, may hang and draw--distinguish their qualities by the pillars
of their gallows. He got his honour easily, by chance, without the hard, laborious way of merit,
which makes him so prodigally lavish of it. He brings down the price of honour, as the value
of anything falls in mean hands. He looks upon all men in the state of knighthood and plain
gentility as most deplorable, and wonders how he could endure himself when he was but of that
rank. The greatest part of his honour consists in his well-sounding title, which he therefore
makes choice of, though he has none to the place, but only a patent to go by the name of it.
This appears at the end of his coach in the shape of a coronet, which his footmen set their
bums against, to the great disparagement of the wooden representative. The people take him
for a general grievance, a kind of public pressure or innovation, and would willingly give
a subsidy to be redressed of him. He is a strict observer of men's addresses to him, and takes
a mathematical account whether they stoop and bow in just proportion to the weight of his greatness
and allow full measure to their legs and cringes accordingly. He never uses courtship but in
his own defence, that others may use the same to him, and, like a true Christian, does as he
would be done unto. He is intimate with no man but his pimp and his surgeon, with whom he keeps
no state, but communicates all the states of his body. He is raised, like the market or a tax,
to the grievance and curse of the people. He that knew the inventory of him would wonder what
slight ingredients go to the making up of a great person; howsoever, he is turned up trump,
and so commands better cards than himself while the game lasts. He has much of honour according
to the original sense of it, which among the ancients, Gellius says, signified injury. His
prosperity was greater than his brain could bear, and he is drunk with it; and if he should
take a nap as long as Epimenides or the Seven Sleepers he would never be sober again. He took
his degree and went forth lord by mandamus, without performing exercises of merit. His honour's
but an immunity from worth, and his nobility a dispensation for doing things ignoble. He expects
that men's hats should fly off before him like a storm, and not presume to stand in the way
of his prospect, which is always over their heads. All the advantage he has is but to go before
or sit before, in which his nether parts take place of his upper, that continue still, in comparison,
but commoners. He is like an open summer-house, that has no furniture but bare seats. All he
has to show for his honour is his patent, which will not be in season until the third or fourth
generation, if it lasts so long. His very creation supposes him nothing before, and as tailors
rose by the fall of Adam, and came in, like thorns and thistles, with the curse, so did he
by the frailty of his master. His very face is his gentleman-usher, that walks before him in
state, and cries "Give way!" He is as stiff as if he had been dipped in petrifying water and
turned into his own statue. He is always taking the name of his honour in vain, and will rather
damn it like a knighthood of the post than want occasion to pawn it for every idle trifle,
perhaps for more than it is worth, or any man will give to redeem it; and in this he deals
uprightly, though perhaps in nothing else.

A MALICIOUS MAN

Has a strange natural inclination to all ill intents and purposes. He bears nothing so resolutely
as ill-will, which he takes naturally to, as some do to gaming, and will rather hate for nothing
than sit out. He believes the devil is not so bad as he should be, and therefore endeavours
to make him worse by drawing him into his own party offensive and defensive; and if he would
but be ruled by him, does not doubt but to make him understand his business much better than
he does. He lays nothing to heart but malice, which is so far from doing him hurt that it is
the only cordial that preserves him. Let him use a man never so civilly to his face, he is
sure to hate him behind his back. He has no memory for any good that is done him; but evil,
whether it be done him or not, never leaves him, as things of the same kind always keep together.
Love and hatred, though contrary passions, meet in him as a third and unite, for he loves nothing
but to hate, and hates nothing but to love. All the truths in the world are not able to produce
so much hatred as he is able to supply. He is a common enemy to the world, for being born to
the hatred of it, Nature, that provides for everything she brings forth, has furnished him
with a competence suitable to his occasions, for all men together cannot hate him so much as
he does them one by one. He loses no occasion of offence, but very thriftily lays it up and
endeavours to improve it to the best advantage. He makes issues in his skin to vent his ill-humours,
and is sensible of no pleasure so much as the itching of his sores. He hates death for nothing
so much as because he fears it will take him away before he has paid all the ill-will he owes,
and deprive him of all those precious feuds he has been scraping together all his lifetime.
He is troubled to think what a disparagement it will be to him to die before those that will
be glad to hear he is gone, and desires very charitably they might come to an agreement like
good friends and go hand-in-hand out of the world together. He loves his neighbour as well
as he does himself, and is willing to endure any misery so they may but take part with him,
and undergo any mischief rather than they should want it. He is ready to spend his blood and
lay down his life for theirs that would not do half so much for him, and rather than fail would
give the devil suck, and his soul into the bargain, if he would but make him his plenipotentiary
to determine all differences between himself and others. He contracts enmities, as others do
friendships, out of likenesses, sympathies, and instincts; and when he lights upon one of his
own temper, as contraries produce the same effects, they perform all the offices of friendship,
have the same thoughts, affections, and desires of one another's destruction, and please themselves
as heartily, and perhaps as securely, in hating one another as others do in loving. He seeks
out enemies to avoid falling out with himself, for his temper is like that of a flourishing
kingdom; if it have not a foreign enemy it will fall into a civil war and turn its arms upon
itself, and so does but hate in his own defence. His malice is all sorts of gain to him, for
as men take pleasure in pursuing, entrapping, and destroying all sorts of beasts and fowl,
and call it sport, so would he do men, and if he had equal power would never be at a loss,
nor give over his game without his prey; and in this he does nothing but justice, for as men
take delight to destroy beasts, he, being a beast, does but do as he is done by in endeavouring
to destroy men. The philosopher said, "Man to man is a god and a wolf;" but he, being incapable
of the first, does his endeavour to make as much of the last as he can, and shows himself as
excellent in his kind as it is in his power to do.

A KNAVE

Is like a tooth-drawer, that maintains his own teeth in constant eating by pulling out those
of other men. He is an ill moral philosopher, of villainous principles, and as bad practice.
His tenets are to hold what he can get, right or wrong. His tongue and his heart are always
at variance, and fall out like rogues in the street, to pick somebody's pocket. They never
agree but, like Herod and Pilate, to do mischief. His conscience never stands in his light
when the devil holds a candle to him, for he has stretched it so thin that it is transparent.
He is an engineer of treachery, fraud, and perfidiousness, and knows how to manage matters
of great weight with very little force by the advantage of his trepanning screws. He is very
skilful in all the mechanics of cheat, the mathematical magic of imposture, and will outdo
the expectation of the most credulous to their own admiration and undoing. He is an excellent
founder, and will melt down a leaden fool and cast him into what form he pleases. He is like
a pike in a pond, that lives by rapine, and will sometimes venture on one of his own kind,
and devour a knave as big as himself. He will swallow a fool a great deal bigger than himself,
and, if he can but get his head within his jaws, will carry the rest of him hanging out at
his mouth, until by degrees he has digested him all. He has a hundred tricks to slip his neck
out of the pillory without leaving his ears behind. As for the gallows, he never ventures to
show his tricks upon the high-rope for fear of breaking his neck. He seldom commits any villainy
but in a legal way, and makes the law bear him out in that for which it hangs others. He always
robs under the wizard of law, and picks pockets with tricks in equity. By his means the law
makes more knaves than it hangs, and, like the Inns-of-Court, protects offenders against itself.
He gets within the law and disarms it. His hardest labour is to wriggle himself into trust,
which if he can but compass his business is done, for fraud and treachery follow as easily
as a thread does a needle. He grows rich by the ruin of his neighbours, like grass in the streets
in a great sickness. He shelters himself under the covert of the law, like a thief in a hemp-plot,
and makes that secure him which was intended for his destruction.

APPENDIX.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

Wrote "The Character of the Happy Warrior" in 1806. It was suggested by the death of Nelson
at Trafalgar on the 21st of October 1805. Wordsworth did not connect the poem with the name
of Nelson because there was a stain upon his public life, in his relations with Lady Hamilton,
that clouded the ideal. The poet said that in writing he thought much of his true-hearted sailor-brother
who, as Captain of an Indiaman, had been drowned in the wreck of his ship off the Bill of Portland
on the 5th of February 1805, his body not being found until the 20th of March. As it hath bene
diuerse times acted at the Red Bull, by the Queenes Maiesties Servants.

