Shakespeare, in the Second Part of Henry IV. act v. sc. 3 makes Silence sing the following scrap:--

  "Do me right,
  And dub me knight:
  Samingo."

And Nash, in his Summer's Last Will and Testament, 1600 (reprinted in the last edition of Dodsley's
Old Plays, vol. xi. p. 47.) has

  "Monsieur Mingo for quaffing doth surpass,
  In cup, in can, or glass;
  God Bacchus, do me right,
  And dub me knight,
  Domingo"

T. Warton, in a note in vol. xvii. of the Variorum Shakespeare, says, "Samingo, that is San
Domingo, as some of the commentators have observed. But what is the meaning and propriety of
the name here, has not yet been shown. Justice Silence is here introduced as in the midst of
his cups; and I remember a black-letter ballad, in which either a San Domingo or a Signior
Domingo, is celebrated for his miraculous feats in drinking. Silence, in the abundance of his
festivity, touches upon some old song, in which this convivial saint, or signior, was the burden.
Perhaps, too, the pronounciation in here suited to the character." I must own that I cannot
see what San Domingo has to do with a drinking song. May it not be an allusion to a ballad
or song on Domingo, one of King Henry the Eighth's jesters?

  "--Domyngo Lomelyn,
  That was wont to wyn
  Moche money of the kynge,
  At the cardys and haserdynge."

Skelton's Why come ye not to Courte, ed. Dyce, ii. p. 63.

None of the commentators have noticed this, but I think my suggestion carries with it some weight.

In the Privy Purse Expenses of King Henry the Eighth (published by Sir H. Nichols, in 1827),
are many entries concerning this Domingo, most of which relate to payments of money that he
had won from the king at cards and dice. He was evidently, as Sir Harris Nichols observes,
one of King Henry's "diverting vagabonds," and seems to have accompanied his majesty wherever
he went, for we find that he was with him at Calais in 1532. In all these entries he is only
mentioned as Domingo; his surname, and the fact of his being a Lombard, we learn from Skelton's
poem, mentioned above.

The following story, told of Domingo, occurs in Mr. (afterwards Sir John) Harington's Treatise
on Playe, 1597, printed in the Nugae Antiquae, edit. Park, vol. i. p.222.:--

     "The other tale I wold tell of a willinge and wise loss I have
     hearde dyversly tolde. Some tell it of Kyng Phillip and a favoryte
     of his; some of our worthy King Henry VIII. and Domingo; and I
     may call it a tale; becawse perhappes it is but a tale, but thus
     they tell it:--The kinge, 55 eldest hand, set up all restes, and
     discarded flush; Domingo or Dundego (call him how you will),
     helde it upon 49, or som such game; when all restes were up and
     they had discarded, the kinge threw his 55 on the boord open, with
     great lafter, supposing the game (as it was) in a manner
     sewer. Domingo was at his last carde incownterd flush, as the
     standers by saw, and tolde the day after; but seeing the king so
     mery, would not for a reste at primero, put him owt of that
     pleasawnt conceyt, and put up his cardes quietly, yielding it
     lost."

Park was not acquainted with any particulars of this Domingo Lomelyn, for he says, in a note,
"Query, jester to the king?"

The first epigram in Samuel Rowland's entertaining tract, The Letting of Humours Blood in the
Head-waine, &c. 1600, is upon "Monsieur Domingo;" but whether it relates to King Henry's jester
is a matter of some question.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARLOWE AND THE OLD "TAMING OF A SHREW."

Having only just observed an announcement of a new edition of the works of Marlowe, I take
the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the editor to a circumstance which it
is important that he should know, and the knowledge of which,--should it have escaped his notice,
as it has that of all other writers on the subject,--I trust may not be too late for his present
purpose. Without farther preface, I will introduce the subject, by asking Mr. Dyce to compare
two passages which I shall shortly point out; and, having done so, I think he will agree with
me in the opinion that the internal evidence, relating to our old dramatic literature, cannot
have been very much studied, while such a discovery as he will then make still remained to
be made. The first passage is from the so-called old "Taming of a Shrew" (six old plays, 1779,
p. 161.), and runs as follows:--

  "Now that the gloomy shadow of the night,
  Longing to view Orion's drisling looks,
  Leaps from th' Antarctic world unto the sky,
  And dims the welkin with her pitchy breath;"

the second is from Doctor Faustus (Marlowe's Works, vol. ii. p. 127.), which, however, I shall
save myself the trouble of transcribing; as, with the exception of "look" for "looks," in the
second line, and "his" for "her," in the fourth, the two passages will be found identical.
Being, some years ago, engaged, in connection with the first of these plays, in the pursuit
of a very different object,--in which I cannot say that I altogether failed, and the result
of which I may take an opportunity of communicating,--I made a note of the above; and at the
same time followed it up by a general examination of the style of Marlowe. And, to make a long
matter short, I may say that in this examination, besides meeting with a dozen instances of
the identity of the writer of passages in the Taming of a Shrew and of passages in Marlowe's
two plays, Doctor Faustus and Tamburlaine, I found such general resemblance in style as left
no doubt upon my mind that, if one of these plays be his acknowledged work, as indisputable
will be his claim to the other two. I was not aware at that time of the evidence, in Henslow's
Diary, of Marlowe's authorship of Tamburlaine; but, so far from considering it inferior, I
was inclined to place it, in some important respects, at the very head of his plays.

I will not take up your space now with the parallel passages which I noted; but, should you
wish it, and be able to make room for them, I will furnish you with a list. It is, of course,
obvious that the one I have quoted proves nothing by itself; accumulated instances, in connection
with the general question of style, alone become important. I will conclude, by giving a list
which I have made out of Marlowe's plays, in favour of which I conceive there to be either
internal or external evidence:--

     "Locrine.

     Tamburlaine the Great (two parts).

     Jew of Malta.

     Doctor Faustus.

     Edward the Second.

     Massacre of Paris.

     Taming of a Shrew.

     Dido, Queen of Carthage (with Nash)."

SAMUEL HICKSON

St. John's Wood, Jan. 12. 1850

     [We trust our correspondent will favour us with the further
     communications he proposes on this very interesting point.]

       *       *       *       *       *

BEETLE MYTHOLOGY.

Mr. Editor,--I never thought of asking my Low-Norman fellow-rustics whether the ladybird had
a name and a legend in the best preserved of the northern Romance dialects: on the score of
a long absence (eight-and-twenty years), might not a veteran wanderer plead forgiveness? Depend
upon it, Sir, nevertheless, that should any reminiscences exist among my chosen friends, the
stout-hearted and industrious tenants of a soil where every croft and paddock is the leaf of
a chronicle, it will be communicated without delay. There is more than usual attractiveness
in the astronomical German titles of this tiny "red chafer," or rother kaefer, SONNEN KAEFER
and VNSER FRAWEN KVHLEIN, the Sun-chafer, and our Lady's little cow. (Isis or Io?)

With regard to its provincial English name, Barnabee, the correct interpretation might be found
in Barn-bie, the burning, or fire-fly, a compound word of Low-Dutch origin.

We have a small black beetle, common enough in summer, called PÂN, nearly hemispherical: you
must recollect that the â is as broad as you can afford to make it, and the final n is nasal.
Children never forgot, whenever they caught this beetle, to place it in the palm of their left
hand, when it was invoked as follows:--

  "PÂN, PÂN, mourtre mé ten sang,
  Et j'te doûrai de bouan vin blianc!"

which means, being interpreted,

  "PÂN, PÂN, show me thy blood,
  And I will give thee good white wine!"

As he uttered the charm, the juvenile pontiff spat on poor Thammuz, till a torrent of blood,
or what seemed such, "ran purple" over the urchin's fingers.

Paul-Ernest Jablonski's numerous readers need not be told that the said beetle is an Egyptian
emblem of the everlasting and universal soul, and that its temple is the equinoctial circle,
the upper hemisphere.[1]

As a solar emblem, it offers an instructive object of inquiry to the judicious gleaners of
the old world's fascinating nursery traditions. Sicilian Diodorus tells us that the earth's
lover, Attis (or Adonis), after his resuscitation, acquired the divine title of PAPAN.[2] To
hazard the inoffensive query, why one of our commonest great beetles is still allowed to figure
under so distinguished a name, will therefore reflect no discredit upon a cautious student
of nearly threescore years. The very Welsh talked, in William Baxter's time, of "Heaven, as
bugarth PAPAN," the sun's ox-stall or resting-place; and here you likewise find his beetle-majesty,
in a Low-Norman collection of insular rhymes:--

 "Sus l'bord piâsottaient, côte-à-côte,
  Les équerbots et leas PAPANS,
  Et ratte et rat laissaient leux crotte
  Sus les vieilles casses et même dedans."[3]

By the help of Horapollo, Chiflet's gnostic gems, and other repertories of the same class,
one might, peradventure, make a tolerable case in favour of the mythological identity of the
legend of Ladybird--that is, the sun-chafer, or barn-bie, the fire-fly, "whose house is burnt,
and whose bairns are ten," of course the first ten days of the Egyptian year[4]--with the mystical
stories of the said black or dark blue lords of radiance, Pân and Papân.

The Egyptians revere the beetle as a living and breathing image of the sun, quoth Porphyry.[5]
That will account for this restless delver's extraordinary talismanic renown. I think the lady-bird
is "the speckled beetle" which was flung in hot water to avert storms.[6] Pignorius gives us
the figure of the beetle, crowned with the sun, and encircled with the serpent of eternity;
while another, an onyx in the collection of Abraham Gorlæus, threatens to gnaw at a thunderbolt.[7]

Reuven's book on the Egyptian Museum, which I have not seen, notices an invocation to "the
winged beetle, the monarch ([Greek: tyrannos]) of mid-heaven," concluding with a devout wish
that some poor creature "may be dashed to pieces."

Can any of your readers inform me what is meant by "the blood of the Phuôn?"

Yours truly,

?

St. Martin's, Guernsey, Jan. 9. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXTRACTS FROM CHURCHWARDENS' ACCOUNTS OF ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER--WEIGHT OF BELLS IN ANCIENT
TIMES--HISTORY OF A ROOD-LOFT.

I send you a few Notes, collected out of the Churchwardens' Accounts of St. Margaret's, Westminster.

1stly. Some regarding the weight of bells in ancient days:--

"1526. The first bell weith                    ccccc lb.
       The second bell weith               ccccccxxj lb.
       The third bell weith                    ixCvj lb.
       The fourthe bell weith                    M.x lb.
       The fyfthe belonging to our grete Lady
         Bretherhed                        MvjCxiiij lb.
     The sume of all the weight          MMMMVIIC Li lb.

"1592. The broken Tennor waied               xvjCxxj lb.
       The new tennor ys.                      xiijC di
       The greatest bell ys     xxjC and di at lvjs. the C.
       The iiij bell ys       xvijC and di and xiiij lb.
       The xiiij bell taken awaie was          xiijC di.
       The ij bell carried awaie was     viijCiij qters.
       The new bell                           viijC di.
      Som totall of the bells, yron, tymber, and
      workmanshipp                       lxxvl. vs. vd."

This appears to have been a sorry bargain, for soon after occur sad complaints of these bells,
"very falsly and deceytfully made by Valentyne Trever." Perhaps your correspondent "CEPHAS"
may explain the following entry:--

"1846. Item, paid for makying of a newe clapper to
         Judas bell                                xd."

2ndly. Some entries, which make up a little history of a rood-loft:--

"1460. Item, sol' pro le skoryng de la belles sup' le
          Rode lofte                             iiijd.

"1480. Item, paide for a doore in the rode lofte to
          save and kepe the people from the Orgayns
                                                 xijd.
       Item, paide to a carpynter for makyng of the
          Crucyfix and the beme He standeth upon   xls.

       Item, paide for kervying of Mary and John
         and the makyng newe         xxxiijs. iiijd.

       Item, for gilding of the same Mary and John
         and the Crosse and iiij'or Evangelysts
                                 vjl. vjs. viijd.

"1530. Item, payd to a labourer for helpying up the
         Roode Loft into the stepull          viijd.

"1534. Payd for a present for Mr. Alford and Mr.
         Herytage for ther good wyll for tymber for
         the newe Rode lofte              ijs. ijd."

The fickle tyrant Henry VIII. dies; a more consistent reign happily ensues.

"1548. Item, for the takying downe of the Roode, the
         Tabernacle, and the Images    iijs. vjd.
       Also payd to Thomas Stokedale for xxxv ells
         of clothe for the frunte of the Rode Lofte
         whereas the x Commandements be wrytten,
         price of the ell vjd.        xxiijs. iiijd.
       Also payd to hym that dyd wryght the said
         x Commaundements and for ther drynking
                                        lxvjs. ixd."

Queen Mary succeeds the boy-king Edward VI., and restores the Ritual of her Church.

"1566. Item, payed for the Roode, Mary and John  xl.

"1557. Item, for peyntyng the Roode, Mary and John
                                                xls.
       For makyng xvij candilsticks for the roode-light
                                         xjs. iiijd."

Upon the accession of Queen Elizabeth once more, and this time for ever, the rood was destroyed,
and the loft, though "reformed," did not long survive it.

"1559. Payde to John Rialle for his iij dayse work
         to take downe the Roode, Mary and John
                                         ijs. viijd.
       For clevying and sawyng of the Roode, Mary
         and John                              xijd.

"1560. Rec'd for the beame the Roode stood on, for
         boords and other tymber parcell of the
         Roode loft                           xlijs.
       For the rest of the stuf belongying to the
         Roode lofte                            ixl.
       For the great clothe that hong before the
         Rode                                   xxs.
       Item, paide to joyners and labowrers abowt
         the takying downe and new reformyng of the
         Roode Loft, &c.           xxxvijl. xs. ijd.
       Item, paide for boordes, glew, nayles, and
         other neccessaries belonging to the saide
         loft                    xiiijl. xiijs. ixd.

       Item, paide to a paynter for payntyng the
         same                               xijd.

"1562. For bearinge stones for the muringe up of the
         dore of the late rood lofte         viijd."

The rapacious Puritans, of course, did not suffer any portion of the church-goods to escape
their sacrilegious and itching palms, if convertible into money, so we read--

"1645. Received of Arthur Condall in part of 5li for
         the screen and Organ-loft              1s."

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

S.M.W., Dec. 22. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON.

The Bagnio in Long Acre.--Mr. Cunningham mentions the Queen's Bagnio in Long Acre. Query, was
this the same as the Duke of York's Bagnio? S. Haworth published, in a small 12mo. volume,
without date, "A Description of the Duke of York's Bagnio, in Long Acre, and of the Mineral
Bath and new Spaw thereunto belonging."

Tavistock Street, Covent Garden.--Richard Leveridge, the celebrated singer, after his retirement
from the stage, kept a tavern in this street. Here he brought out "A Collection of Songs, with
the Music, by Mr. Leveridge. In two volumes. London, Engrav'd and Printed for the Author in
Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, 1727." The frontispiece was designed and engraved by Hogarth.

Duke Street, Westminster.--Miss Hawkins, in her Anecdotes, p. 186., speaking of Lady Lucy Meyrick,
says, "On quitting her husband's family, she came to reside in Duke Street, Westminster, and
lived in that house which had been Prior's, and which exactly faces Charles Street."

Richmond Buildings, Soho.--Horne Tooke resided here in 1775. He afterwards removed to Frith Street.

Clare Market, originally called New Market, was established about the year 1660, by Lord Clare.

     "The city and my lord had a great lawsuit, which lasted many years,
     to the great expence of the city; but from the inequity of the
     times the city and my lord agreed, and gave it up to the lord; and
     now it is become one of the greatest markets in the adjacent parts;
     and from the success of this noble lord, they have got several
     charters for the erecting of several others since the year 1660; as
     that of St. James, by the Earl of St. Alban's; Bloomsbury, by the
     Earl of Southampton; Brook Market, by the Lord Brook; Hungerford
     Market; Newport Market; besides the Hay Market, New Charingcross,
     and that at Petty France at Westminster, with their Mayfair in the
     fields behind Piccadilly."--Harl. MS. 5900.

London House Yard.--Here was formerly the town house of the Bishop of London, which, being
consumed in the great fire, the house in Aldersgate Street, formerly called Petre House, was
rented for the town residence of the bishop, since which it obtained the title of London House.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD PAINTED GLASS

For poor ignorant people like myself pray insert the following, as perhaps some of your heraldic
correspondents may afford some information for the benefit of your very humble servant,

F.E.

Newington, June 17. 1751.

To take an account of what Coats of Arms or other Paintings are in the windows of the House
Mercer lives of Mr. Filmer.

Painted Glass in y' windows at Mr. Merser House is As foloweth 5 Coote of armse in 3 windowse
in y' Kichen 2 Surkelor Coots of armse 6 Lians traveling 6 flours of Luse all Rede & a Holfe
Surkel a top With 2 flours of luce y' Glass painted Rede Blew yoler & of a Green Shaye.

In y' Hall one ouel Pease of Painted Glass
In Chakers of yoler & Green & blew 10 yong
  Hedge frougs
Two Pikse of Armse on Each Side
W.B. there was in this Rote on y'
Glass Lyfford but there is only now ford
y' 3 fust Leters ar Broken & Lost oute
One Pecs of y' Painted Glass in y' frount
Chamber window as foloweth
In a Surkel 6 flours of Luse 6 Red Lyans
Traveling 4 Rede Roses 2 Purpul Roses
With a Croune a tope with 2 flours of Luse &
A Crass and Beedse all Round y' Crowne.

In y' same window one more Cootse of arms
In a Surkel Devidet is as foloweth 3 yoler
Lyans passant[8] Set in a Silver Coler 6 flours of
  Luse
blew Sete in Green, y' Seoch Coote of arms on
Each Side y' thisel & Crown & y' 3 flours coming
  out of the thistle
y' Croun yoler & y' flours y'e thisal of a silver Coler
3 Leopards[8] Hedse Silver & Set in Silver
2 Roses of a purpul Couler one on Each Side
2 Spred Eaguls one on Each Side
& 2 Wingse of a Goos in y' midel of y' arms
of a Goold culer & a vessel like a decanter between
  y'm
A croun a toupe with 2 flours of Luse on
Each side of y'e Croun on Crass in y'e middel & 2
  holfe
Crasses on Each Side with white Beadse
all Round y'e Crounde a toupe.

       *       *       *       *       *

AELFRIC'S COLLOQUY.

The singular error which Messrs. Lye and Thorpe have fallen in the passage pointed out by Mr.
Hampson in Aelfric's very interesting Colloquy, is the more remarkable as Aelfric himself afforded
a complete illustration of the passage, in his Glossary, where we have "BULGA, hýdig-faet."
It is possible, therefore, that higdifatu is a mere error of the scribe. Now Du Cange, v. Bulga,
cites this very passage from Aelfric's Glossary, and adds, "i.e. vas ex corio confectum," but
his whole article is worth consulting. That the Latin word in the Colloquy should be Cassidilia
is quite clear. Thus in an old MS. English Gloss on the Bible (penes me), the passage in Tobit,
viii. 2., "Protulit de Cassidili suo," is rendered, "brouzt forth of his Scrippe." Coverdale
has it, "take out of his bagge," and Luther, "langte aus seinem Sücklein," which word is exchanged
for büdel in the Saxon version. In two old Teutonic Glosses on the Bible published by Graff
(Diutiska, ii. 178.), we have the following variations:--

de cassidi burssa, de sacello t. sacciperio kiula de cassili burissa, de sacello t. sacciperio
kiulla.

Another Gloss in Graff's 1st vol. p. 192., on the word Cadus, may perhaps throw some light
on the subject. The philological student need not be reminded of the wide application of the
word vas, Lat., fazz, O.G., and faet. A.S.; but for my own part, I conclude that the shoewright
intended to designate by higdifatu all sorts of leathern budgets. Every Anglo-Saxon student
must be so sensible of the great obligation he is under to our distinguished scholar Mr. Thorpe,
that I trust it will not be deemed invidious or ungracious to point out another passage in
this Colloquy which seems to have hitherto baffled him, but which it appears to me may be elucidated.

To the question, "Hwilce fixas gefehst thu?" the fisherman answers, "Aelas aud hacodas, mynas,
aud aelputan, sceotan aud lampredan, aud swa hwylce swa on waetere swymath, sprote."

Mr. Thorpe, in the 1st edition of his Analecta, says, "What is intended to be meant by this
word [sprote], as well as by salu [the correspondent word in the Latin], I am at a loss to
conjecture." In his second edition, Mr. Thorpe repeats, "I am unable to explain salu otherwise
than by supposing it may be an error for salice. In his Glossary he has "spro't, ii. 2.? sprout,
rod?" with a reference to his note. I must confess I cannot see how the substitution of salice
for salu would make the passage more intelligible, and the explanation of spro'te in the Glossary
does not help us. The sense required appears to me to be, quickly, swiftly, and this will,
I think, be found to be the meaning of sprote. In the Moeso-Gothic Gospels the word sprauto
occurs several times and always in the sense of cito, subito; and though we have hitherto,
I believe, no other example in Anglo-Saxon of this adverbial use of the word, we are warranted,
I think, in concluding, from the analogy of a cognate language, that it did exist. In regard
to the evidently corrupt Latin word salu, I have nothing better to offer than the forlorn conjecture
that, in monkish Latin, "saltu't" may have been contractedly written for saltuatim."

Dr. Leo, in his Angelsâchsiche Sprachproben, has reprinted the Colloquy, but without the Latin,
and, among many other capricious deviations from Mr. Thorpe's text, in the answer of the shoewright
has printed hygefata! but does not notice the word in his Glossary. Herr Leo has entirely omitted
the word sprote.

S.W. SINGER.

Jan. 14. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOGOGRAPHIC PRINTING.

     [NASO has, in compliance with our request, furnished us with a
     facsimile of the heading of his early number of The Times, which
     is as follows:--"THE (here an engraving of the King's Arms) TIMES,
     OR DAILY UNIVERSAL REGISTER, PRINTED LOGOGRAPHICALLY, WEDNESDAY,
     MARCH 12. 1788," and informs us that it was printed "By R. Nutkins,
     at the Logographic Press, Printing-House Square, near Apothecaries'
     Hall, Blackfriars," and the height to which the Mr. Walter of that
     day had brought his invention, by the same energy by which his
     successor has raised THE TIMES to its present position, is shown by
     the following note from a kind and most able correspondent.]

A much more remarkable specimen of Logographic Printing than the number of the Times newspaper
mentioned by NASO, No. 9., p. 136., is an edition of Anderson's History of Commerce, with a
continuation, in 4 vols. 4to., printed by that method in 1787-1789, "at the Logographic Press,
by J. Walter, Printing-House Square, Blackfriars." The work, which makes in all not much short
of 4000 pages, is very well printed in all respects; and the following interesting note on
the subject of Logographic Printing is attached to the preface heading the Continuation, or
fourth volume.

"Mr. Walter cannot here omit suggesting to the Public a few observations on his improved mode
of printing LOGOGRAPHICALLY. In all projects for the general benefit, the individual who conceives
that the trade in which he is engaged diminishes in its emoluments from any improvement which
another may produce in it, is too much disposed to become its enemy; and, perhaps, the interest
of individuals never exerted itself with more inveteracy than has been experienced by Mr. Walter
from many concerned in the trade into which he had entered.

"The invention which he brought forward, promised to be of essential service to the public,
by expediting the process and lessening the expense of printing. Dr. Franklin sanctioned it
with his approbation, and Sir Joseph Banks encouraged him with the most decided and animated
opinion of the great advantages which would arise to literature from the LOGOGRAPHIC PRESS.
Nevertheless Mr. Walter was left to struggle with the interest of some, and the prejudice of
others, and, though he was honoured by the protection of several persons of high rank, it happened
in his predicament, as it generally happens in predicaments of a similar nature, that his foes
were more active than his friends, and he still continued to struggle with every difficulty
that could arise from a very determined opposition to, and the most illiberal misrepresentations
of, the LOGOGRAPHIC IMPROVEMENT.

"Mr. Walter has, however, at length triumphed over the falsehood and malignity of his opponents;
LOGOGRAPHIC PRINTING, after having produced such a work as this, which he now presents to the
public, with many excellent publications that he has already printed, can no longer be considered
as an idle speculation: on the contrary, it is proved to be a practical improvement, that promises,
under a due encouragement, to produce a great national benefit. To advance it to the perfection
of which it is capable, Mr. Walter engages to employ his utmost exertions, and he takes the
liberty of expressing his confidence, that he shall not be disappointed in the enjoyment of
that public favour which now promises to reward his labours."

C.

Old Brompton, Jan. 3. 1850.

     [We may mention another work printed in this manner--an edition of
     Robinson Crusoe, in 3 vols. 8vo. 1790--"printed at the
     Logographic Press, and sold by J. Walter, No. 169. Piccadilly,
     opposite Old Bond Street."]

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMORIALS OF THE DUKE OF MONMOUTH'S LAST DAYS.[9]

At a recent meeting of the Royal Irish Academy in Dublin, Dr. Anster exhibited a manuscript
volume of 157 pages, which he declared to be the identical "album filled with songs, recipes,
prayers, and charms," found in the Duke of Monmouth's pocket when he was seized. It was purchased
at a book-stall in Paris in 1827 by an Irish divinity student, was given by him to a priest
in the county of Kerry, and, on the priest's death, became the property of the present possessor.
Respecting in its identity and history, from its removal from the rebel duke's pocket down
to its production at the Royal Irish Academy, Dr. Anster showed that after Monmouth was beheaded--which
he was on Tower Hill, by the too-celebrated John Ketch, on the 15th July, 1685--the articles
found on his person were given to the king. At James's deposition, three years afterwards,
all his manuscripts, including those that had belonged to Monmouth, were carried into France,
where they remained till the Revolution in that country a century afterwards. Dr. Anster, in
exhibiting the book, showed that the remains of silver clasps had been destroyed, and a part
of the leather of the covers at each side torn away, seemingly for the purpose of removing
some name on a coat of arms with which it had been once marked; and this he accounted for by
the belief that at the period of the French Revolution the persons in whose custody they were,
being fearful of the suspicions likely to arise from their possession of books with royal arms
on them, tore off the covers, and sent the books to St. Omer's. The after-fate of the larger
books was, that they were burned; some small ones, we are distinctly told, were saved from
this fate, but seem to have been disregarded, and all trace of them lost. The Abbé Waters--a
collateral descendant of Lucy Waters, the Duke of Monmouth's mother--was the person with whom
George IV. negotiated for the Stuart papers, and from whom the volumes which have since appeared
as Clark's Life of James the Second were obtained; and it is from the Abbé Waters we have the
account of the destruction of King James's autograph papers. Dr. Anster showed, written on
the inner cover of this volume, the words, "Baron Watiers" or "Watrers."

As to the identity of the book, Dr. Anster quoted several passages from contemporary authors
to test their account of the contents of the "album" with those of the book he was describing.
In the Harleian Miscellany, vol. vi. p.323., it is stated in Sir John Reresby's memoirs, that
"out of his [Monmouth's] pocket were taken books, in his own handwriting, containing charms
or spells to open the doors of a prison, to obviate the danger of being wounded in battle,
together with songs and prayers." Barillon describes the book in what is nearly a translation
of this--"Il y avoit des secrets de magie et d'enchantment, avec des chansons des recettes
pour des maladies et des prieres." Again, in a note by Lord Dartmouth to the modern editions
of Burnet's Own Times, we have the following statement:--

     "My uncle Colonel William Legge, who went in the coach with him
     [Monmouth] to London as a guard, with orders to stab him if there
     were any disorders on the road, showed me several charms that were
     tied about him when he was taken, and his table-book, which was
     full of astrological figures that nobody could understand; but he
     told my uncle that they had been given to him some years before in
     Scotland, and he now found they were but foolish conceits."

The actual contents of the manuscript volume show a great resemblance to these descriptions.
The most curious passages which it contains are the duke's memorandums of his journey on two
visits to the Prince of Orange, in the year previous to his last rash adventure. His movements
up to the 14th of March, 1684-85, are given. The entries do not seem to be of much moment;
but they may accidentally confirm or disprove some disputed points of history. There is an
entry without a date, describing the stages of a journey in England, commencing with London
and Hampstead: it ends with Toddington. This forms a strong link in the chain of identity;
for Toddington is a place remarkable in the history of the duke. Near it was the residence
of Lady Henrietta Maria Wentworth, baroness (in her own right) of Nettlestead, only daughter
and heir of Thomas Lord Wentworth, grandchild and heir of the Earl of Cleveland. Five years
before the execution, her mother observed that, despite the duke being a married man, her daughter
had, while at court, attracted his admiration, and she hurried her away to Toddington. In 1683,
after the failure of the Rye-House Plot, Monmouth was banished from the royal presence, and
it was to Toddington he retired. When, on retracting the confession he had made on the occasion,
he was banished the kingdom, the companion of his exile was Lady Henrietta Wentworth.

"I dwell on this," said Dr. Anster, "because the accidental mention of Toddington seems to
authenticate the book: the name of Lady Henrietta Wentworth does not occur in it, and the persons
in whose hands the book has been since it was purchased in Paris do not seem to have noticed
the name of Toddington, or to have known that it had any peculiar relation to the duke's history.
It occurs twice in the book--once in the itinerary, and again in a trifling and unmetrical
song, which is probably the duke's own composition; written probably on the eve of his flight
with his romantic but guilty companion to Holland:--

  "'With joy we leave thee,
  False world, and do forgive
  All thy false treachery.
  For now we'll happy live.
  We'll to our bowers,
  And there spend our hours;
  Happy there we'll be,
  We no strifes can see;
  No quarrelling for crowns,
  Nor fear the great one's frowns;
  Nor slavery of state,
  Nor changes in our fate.
  From plots this place is free,
  There we'll ever be;
  We'll sit and bless our stars
  That from the noise of wars
  Did this glorious place give
  (Or did us Toddington give)
  That thus we happy live.'"

In further proof of identity, Dr. Anster pointed out several charms and recipes which the manuscript
volume contains. The conjurations are in general for the purpose of learning the results of
sickness in any particular case, and of determining whether friends will be in certain circumstances
faithful. There are also incantations for the use of several maladies, and one to make gray
hair grow black. No "charms against being wounded in battle," such are Sir John Reresby mentions,
are to be found in the volume; but there are some prayers against violent death, which have
the appearance of having been transcribed from some devotional book. There is evidently a mistake
in supposing that this book contains any charm for breaking open prison doors, and it is likely
that Sir John Reresby was misled in this way:--There is in p. 7. a charm in French to procure
repose of body and mind, and deliverance from pains; and the word for "pains" is written in
a contracted form; it might as well stand for prisons; but, examining the context, it is plainly
the former word which is meant.

The rest of the entries consist of extracts from old recipe-books, mixed in the oddest way
with abridgements of English history, and the most trifling memorandums, chiefly of a private
and personal kind. Altogether, this commonplace work is highly indicative of the weakness,
vanity, and superstition which stood forward so prominently in the character of the rash but
unfortunate Duke of Monmouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

CATHERINE PEGGE.

Mr. Cunningham was mistaken in supposing that I had overlooked Catherine Pegge, for I was well
aware that she could not have been Pepys's "pretty Lady." She must, in fact, have attained
her fortieth year, and there is no record of her being on the stage; whereas Margaret Hughes
had, when Pepys saluted her, recently joined the Theatre Royal, and she is expressly styled
"Peg Hughes" by Tom Browne, in one of his "Letters from the Dead to the Living." Having disposed
of this question, I am tempted to add that Morant does not confirm the statement that Catherine
Pegge married Sir Edward Green, for he says that

     "Sir Edward Greene, created a Baronet, 26 July, 1660, was seated at
     Little Sampford in Essex; he had 3 wives, the first was Jeronyma,
     daughter and coheir of William Everard, of Linsted, Esq., and by
     her he had 6 daughters; by Mary, daughter of ---- Tasborough, he
     had a son; and by the third lady ----, daughter of ---- Simonds, he
     had a daughter. He was the last of the Greenes that enjoyed this
     estate, having lost it by gaming."--Morant's Essex, vol. ii. p.
     525.

This account of the Greene family is stated in a note to have been taken from a fine pedigree
on vellum, penes T. Wotton, Gent.

If Catherine Pegge was one the three ladies mentioned above, she must have changed her name
previously to her marriage, in hopes of concealing her former history; but the circumstance
of the baronetcy being conferred upon Sir Edward is very suspicious. Probably some of your
correspondents can settle the question.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, Jan. 19. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM BASSE, AND HIS POEMS.

Can any of your readers inform me where a perfect or imperfect copy is to be found of a poem,
of which I possess only a single half sheet, under the following title:--

     "Great Brittaines Sunnes-set, bewailed with a Shower of Teares.
     By William Basse. At Oxford, Printed by Joseph Barnes. 1613"?

It is one of the many poems published on the death of Prince Henry; and although I have been
in search of it, or of a fragment of it, for more than twenty years, I have never been able
to obtain tidings of more than of that small portion in my possession; nor am I aware of the
mention of it in any bibliographical authority. I have not at hand Sir H. Nicolas's edition
of Walton's Angler, in which Basse is spoken of, but I remember looking at that beautiful and
costly work a long time ago, and, as far as I recollect, not finding in it anything to my purpose.
I observe that a William Basse (or Bas, as the name is there spelt) printed in 1602, 4to.,
a tract called Sword and Buckler, or Serving Man's Defence; but I know no more of it than that
it was sold in Stevens's sale; and among the MSS. of the late Mr. Heber was a volume of poems
called Polyhymnia, apparently prepared for the press, and dedicated by William Basse to Lady
Lindsey, which contained an "Elegie on a rare Singing Bull-finch," dated 19th June, 1648; so
that he was still living nearly half a century after he had printed his earliest known performance.

The production that Izaac Walton refers to must be the ballad preserved in the Pepys Collection
at Cambridge, under the heading "Maister Basse his Careere, or the new Hunting of the Hare.
To a new Court tune;" and beginning--

  "Long ere the morne expects the returne."

