"The law, you old dotard," cried the Countess, rounding then on him with a suddenness that
made him seem to shrink into his shell. "The law! Is a silly wench to run us into danger of
losing what is ours? He shall marry her. If you will not force her, then I'll coerce her;"
and with that she turned upon her daughter, grasped her by her two shoulders and shook her
as a terrier shakes a rat. At this Lady Mary began to weep, and indeed she had good cause to do so.

"Hold, madam," shouted I, springing toward her. "Leave the girl alone. I agree with his lordship,
no woman shall be coerced on account of me."

My intervention turned the Countess from her victim upon me.

"You agree with his lordship, you Irish baboon? Don't think she'll marry you because of any
liking for you, you chattering ape, who resemble a monkey in a show with those trappings upon
you. She'll marry you because I say she'll marry you, and you'll give up those papers to me,
who have sense enough to take care of them. If I have a doddering husband, who at the same
time lost his breeches and his papers, I shall make amends for his folly."

"Madam," said I, "you shall have the papers; and as for the breeches, by the terror you spread
around you, I learn they are already in your possession."

I thought she would have torn my eyes out, but I stepped back and saved myself.

"To your room, you huzzy," she cried to her daughter, and Mary fled toward the door. I leaped
forward and opened it for her. She paused on the threshold, pretending again to cry, but instead
whispered:

"My mother is the danger. Leave things alone," she said quickly. "We can easily get poor father's
consent."

With that she was gone. I closed the door and returned to the centre of the room.

"Madam," said I, "I will not have your daughter browbeaten. It is quite evident she refuses
to marry me."

"Hold your tongue, and keep to your word, you idiot," she rejoined, hitting me a bewildering
slap on the side of the face, after which she flounced out by the way her daughter had departed.

The old Earl said nothing, but gazed gloomily into space from out the depths of his chair.
Father Donovan seemed inexpressibly shocked, but my Lord Strepp, accustomed to his mother's
tantrums, laughed outright as soon as the door was closed. All through he had not been in the
least deceived by his sister's pretended reluctance, and recognized that the only way to get
the mother's consent was through opposition. He sprang up and grasped me by the hand and said:

"Well, O'Ruddy, I think your troubles are at an end, or," he cried, laughing again, "just beginning,
but you'll be able to say more on that subject this time next year. Never mind my mother; Mary
is, and always will be, the best girl in the world."

"I believe you," said I, returning his handshake as cordially as he had bestowed it.

"Hush!" he cried, jumping back into his seat again. "Let us all look dejected. Hang your head,
O'Ruddy!" and again the door opened, this time the Countess leading Lady Mary, her long fingers
grasping that slim wrist.

"She gives her consent," snapped the Countess, as if she were pronouncing sentence. I strode
forward toward her, but Mary wrenched her wrist free, slipped past me, and dropped at the feet
of Father Donovan, who had risen as she came in.

"Your blessing on me, dear Father," she cried, bowing her head, "and pray on my behalf that
there may be no more turbulence in my life."

The old father crossed his hands on her shapely head, and for a moment or two it seemed as
if he could not command his voice, and I saw the tears fill his eyes. At last he said simply
and solemnly:--

"May God bless you and yours, my dear daughter."

       *       *       *       *       *

