John and Peter and Robert and Paul--
  God, in His wisdom, created them all.
  John was a statesman and Peter a slave,
  Robert a preacher and Paul was a knave.
  Evil or good, as the case might be,
  White or colored, or bond or free,
  John and Peter and Robert and Paul--
  God, in His wisdom, created them all."

      The Chemistry of Character.

CONTENTS

BOOK ONE--The Age Of Fable

CHAPTER

    I. How the Christmas Saint was Proved

   II. An Old Man Faces Two Ways

  III. The Cult of the Candy Cane

   IV. The Big House of Portents

    V. The Life of Crime Is Appraised and Chosen

   VI. The Garden of Truth and the Perfect Father

  VII. The Superlative Cousin Bill J.

 VIII. Searching the Scriptures

   IX. On Surviving the Idols We Build

    X. The Passing of the Gratcher; and Another

   XI. The Strong Person's Narrative

  XII. A New Theory of a Certain Wicked Man

BOOK TWO--The Age of Reason

CHAPTER

    I. The Regrettable Dementia of a Convalescent

   II. Further Distressing Fantasies of a Clouded Mind

  III. Reason Is Again Enthroned

   IV. A Few Letters

    V. "Is the Hand of the Lord Waxed Short?"

   VI. In the Folly of His Youth

BOOK THREE--The Age of Faith

CHAPTER

    I. The Perverse Behaviour of an Old Man and a Young Man

   II. How a Brother Was Different

  III. How Edom Was Favoured of God and Mammon

   IV. The Winning of Browett

    V. A Belated Martyrdom

   VI. The Walls of St. Antipas Fall at the Third Blast

  VII. There Entereth the Serpent of Inappreciation

 VIII. The Apple of Doubt is Nibbled

   IX. Sinful Perverseness of the Natural Woman

    X. The Reason of a Woman Who Had No Reason

   XI. The Remorse of Wondering Nancy

  XII. The Flexible Mind of a Pleased Husband

 XIII. The Wheels within Wheels of the Great Machine

  XIV. The Ineffective Message

   XV. The Woman at the End of the Path

  XVI. In Which the Mirror Is Held Up to Human Nature

 XVII. For the Sake of Nancy

XVIII. The Fell Finger of Calumny Seems to be Agreeably Diverted

  XIX. A Mere Bit of Gossip

SCENES

BOOK ONE--The Village of Edom

BOOK TWO--The Same

BOOK THREE--New York

CHARACTERS

ALLAN DELCHER, a retired Presbyterian clergyman.

BERNAL LINFORD } ALLAN LINFORD  } his grandsons.

CLAYTON LINFORD, Their father, of the artistic temperament, and versatile.

CLYTEMNESTRA, Housekeeper for Delcher.

COUSIN BILL J., a man with a splendid past.

NANCY CREALOCK, A wondering child and woman.

AUNT BELL, Nancy's worldly guide, who, having lived in Boston, has
  "broadened into the higher unbelief."

MISS ALVIRA ABNEY, Edom's leading milliner, captivated by Cousin Bill J.

MILO BARRUS, The village atheist.

THE STRONG PERSON, of the "Gus Levy All-star Shamrock Vaudeville."

CALEB WEBSTER, a travelled Edomite.

CYRUS BROWETT, a New York capitalist and patron of the Church.

MRS. DONALD WYETH, an appreciative parishioner of Allan Linford.

THE REV MR. WHITTAKER, a Unitarian.

FATHER RILEY, of the Church of Rome.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"'My dear, Bernal is saying good-bye!'" (Frontispiece)

"She could be made to believe that only he could protect her from the
  Gratcher"

"They looked forward with equal eagerness to the day when he should
  become a great and good man"

"He gazed long and exultingly into the eyes yielded so abjectly to his"

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOK ONE

The Age of Fable

THE SEEKER

BOOK ONE--THE AGE OF FABLE

CHAPTER I

HOW THE CHRISTMAS SAINT WAS PROVED

The whispering died away as they heard heavy steps and saw a line of light under the shut door.
Then a last muffled caution from the larger boy on the cot.

"Now, remember! There ain't any, but don't you let on there ain't--else he won't bring you
a single thing!"

Before the despairing soul on the trundle-bed could pierce the vulnerable heel of this, the
door opened slowly to the broad shape of Clytemnestra. One hand shaded her eyes from the candle
she carried, and she peered into the corner where the two beds were, a flurry of eagerness
in her face, checked by stoic self-mastery.

At once from the older boy came the sounds of one who breathes labouredly in deep sleep after
a hard day. But the littler boy sat rebelliously up, digging combative fists into eyes that
the light tickled. Clytemnestra warmly rebuked him, first simulating the frown of the irritated.

"Now, Bernal! Wide awake! My days alive! You act like a wild Indian's little boy. This'll never
do. Now you go right to sleep this minute, while I watch you. Look how fine and good Allan
is." She spoke low, not to awaken the one virtuous sleeper, who seemed thereupon to breathe
with a more swelling and obtrusive rectitude.

"Clytie--now--ain't there any Santa Claus?"

"Now what a sinful question that is!"

"But is there?"

"Don't he bring you things?"

"Oh, there ain't any!" There was a sullen desperation in this, as of one done with quibbles.
But the woman still paltered wretchedly.

"Well, if you don't lie down and go to sleep quicker'n a wink I bet you anything he won't bring
you a single play-pretty."

There came an unmistakable blare of triumph into the busy snore on the cot.

But the heart of the skeptic was sunk. This evasion was more disillusioning than downright
confession. A moment the little boy regarded her, wholly in sorrow, with big eyes that blinked
alarmingly. Then came his last shot; the final bullet which the besieged warrior will sometimes
reserve for his own destruction. There could no longer be any pretense between them. Bravely
he faced her.

"Now--you just needn't try to keep it from me any longer! I know there ain't any--" One tensely
tragic second he paused to gather himself--"It's all over town!" There being nothing further
to live for, he delivered himself to grief--to be tortured and destroyed.

Clytie set the candle on the bureau and came to hover him. Within the pressing arms and upon
the proffered bosom he wept out one of those griefs that may not be told--that only the heart
can understand. Yet, when the first passion of it was spent she began to reassure him, begging
him not to be misled by idle gossip; to take not even her own testimony, but to wait and see
what he would see. At last he listened and was a little soothed. It appeared that Santa Claus
was one you might believe in or might not. Even Clytie seemed to be puzzled about him. He could
see that she overflowed with belief in him, yet he could not make her confess it in plain straight
words. The meat of it was that good children found things on Christmas morning which must have
been left by some one--if not by Santa Claus, then by whom? Did the little boy believe, for
example, that Milo Barrus did it? He was the village atheist, and so bad a man that he loved
to spell God with a little g.

He mused upon this while his tears dried, finding it plausible. Of course it couldn't be Milo
Barrus, so it must be Santa Claus. Was Clytie certain some presents would be there in the morning?
If he went directly to sleep, she was.

Hereupon the larger boy on the cot, who had for some moments listened in forgetful silence,
became again virtuously asleep in a public manner.

But the littler boy must yet have talk. Could the bells of Santa Claus be heard when he came?

Clytie had known some children, of exceptional merit, it was true, who claimed to have heard
his bells on certain nights when they had gone early to sleep.

Why would he never leave anything for a child that got up out of bed and caught him at it?
Suppose one had to get up for a drink.

Because it broke the charm.

But if a very, very good child just happened to wake up while he was in the room, and didn't
pay the least attention to him, or even look sidewise or anything--

Even this were hazardous, it seemed; though if the child were indeed very good all might not
yet be lost.

"Well, won't you leave the light for me? The dark gets in my eyes."

But this was another adverse condition, making everything impossible. So she chided and reassured
him, tucked the covers once more about his neck, and left him, with a final comment on the
advantage of sleeping at once.

When the room was dark and Clytie's footsteps had sounded down the hall, he called softly to
his brother; but that wise child was now truly asleep. So the littler boy lay musing, having
resolved to stay awake and solve the mystery once for all.

From wondering what he might receive he came to wondering if he were good. His last meditation
was upon the Sunday-school book his dear mother had helped him read before they took her away
with a new little baby that had never amounted to much; before he and Allan came to Grandfather
Delcher's to live--where there was a great deal to eat. The name of the book was "Ben Holt."
He remembered this especially because a text often quoted in the story said "A good name is
rather to be chosen than great riches." He had often wondered why Ben Holt should be considered
an especially good name; and why Ben Holt came to choose it instead of the goldpiece he found
and returned to the schoolmaster, before he fell sick and was sent away to the country where
the merry haymakers were. Of course, there were worse names than Ben Holt. It was surely better
than Eygji Watts, whose sanguine parents were said to have named him with the first five letters
they drew from a hat containing the alphabet; Ben Holt was assuredly better than Eygji, even
had this not been rendered into "Hedge-hog" by careless companions. His last confusion of ideas
was a wondering if Bernal Linford was as good a name as Ben Holt, and why he could not remember
having chosen it in preference to a goldpiece. Back of this, in his fading consciousness was
the high-coloured image of a candy cane, too splendid for earth.

Then, far in the night, as it might have seemed to the little boy, came the step of slippered
feet. This time Clytie, satisfying herself that both boys slept, set down her candle and went
softly out, leaving the door open. There came back with her one bearing gifts--a tall, dark
old man, with a face of many deep lines and severe set, who yet somehow shed kindness, as if
he held a spirit of light prisoned within his darkness, so that, while only now and then could
a visible ray of it escape through the sombre eye or through a sudden winning quality in the
harsh voice, it nevertheless radiated from him sensibly at all times, to belie his sternness
and puzzle those who feared him.

Uneasy enough he looked now as Clytie unloaded him of the bundles and bulky toys. In a silence
broken only by their breathing they quickly bestowed the gifts--some in the hanging stockings
at the fire-place, others beside each bed, in chairs or on the mantel.

Then they were in the hall again, the door closed so that they could speak. The old man took
up his own candle from a stand against the wall.

"The little one is like her," he said.

"He's awful cunning and bright, but Allan is the handsomest. Never in my born days did I see
so beautiful a boy."

"But he's like the father, line for line." There was a sudden savage roughness in the voice,
a sterner set to the shaven upper lip and straight mouth, though he still spoke low. "Like
the huckstering, godless fiddle-player that took her away from me. What a mercy of God's he'll
never see her again--she with the saved and he--what a reckoning for him when he goes!"

"But he was not bad to let you take them."

"He boasted to me that he'd not have done it, except that she begged him with her last breath
to promise it. He said the words with great maudlin tears raining down his face, when my own
eyes were dry!"

"How good if you can leave them both in the church, preaching the word where you preached it
so many years!"

"I misdoubt the father's blood in them--at least, in the older. But it's late. Good night,
Clytie--a good Christmas to you."

"More to you, Mr. Delcher! Good night!"

CHAPTER II

AN OLD MAN FACES TWO WAYS

His candle up, he went softly along the white hallway over the heavy red carpet, to where a
door at the end, half-open, let him into his study. Here a wood fire at the stage of glowing
coals made a searching warmth. Blowing out his candle, he seated himself at the table where
a shaded lamp cast its glare upon a litter of books and papers. A big, white-breasted gray
cat yawned and stretched itself from the hearthrug and leaped lightly upon him with great rumbling
purrs, nosing its head under one of his hands suggestively, and, when he stroked it, looking
up at him with lazily falling eye-lids.

He crossed his knees to make a better lap for the cat, and fell to musing backward into his
own boyhood, when the Christmas Saint was a real presence. Then he came forward to his youth,
when he had obeyed the call of the Lord against his father's express command that he follow
the family way and become a prosperous manufacturer. Truly there had been revolt in him. Perhaps
he had never enough considered this in excuse for his own daughter's revolt.

Again he dwelt in the days when he had preached with a hot passion such truth as was his. For
a long time, while the old clock ticked on the mantel before him and the big cat purred or
slept under his absent pettings, his mind moved through an incident of that early ministry.
Clear in his memory were certain passages of fire from the sermon. In the little log church
at Edom he had felt the spirit burn in him and he had movingly voiced its warnings of that
dread place where the flames forever blaze, yet never consume; where cries ever go up for one
drop of water to cool the parched tongues of those who sought not God while they lived. He
had told of one who died--one that the world called good, a moral man--but not a Christian;
one who had perversely neglected the way of life. How, on his death-bed, this one had called
in agony for a last glass of water, seeming to know all at once that he would now be where
no drop of water could cool him through all eternity.

So effective had been his putting of this that a terrified throng came forward at his call
for converts.

The next morning he had ridden away from Edom toward Felton Falls to preach there. A mile out
of town he had been accosted by a big, bearded man who had yet a singularly childish look--who
urged that he come to his cabin to minister to a sick friend. He knew the fellow for one that
the village of Edom called "daft" or "queer," yet held to be harmless--to be rather amusing,
indeed, since he could be provoked to deliver curious harangues upon the subject of revealed
religion. He remembered now that the man's face had stared at him from far back in the church
the night before--a face full of the liveliest terror, though he had not been among those that
fled to the mercy-seat. Acceding to the man's request, he followed him up a wooded path to
his cabin. Dismounting and tying his horse, he entered and, turning to ask where the sick man
was, found himself throttled in the grasp of a giant.

He was thrust into an inner room, windowless and with no door other than the one now barred
by his chuckling captor. And here the Reverend Allan Delcher had lain three days and two nights
captive of a madman, with no food and without one drop of water.

