THE SPENDERS

A TALE OF THE THIRD GENERATION

BY

HARRY LEON WILSON

Illustrated by O'NEILL LATHAM

1902

To L. L. J.

FOREWORD

The wanderers of earth turned to her--outcast of the older lands--
With a promise and hope in their pleading, and she reached them pitying
  hands;
And she cried to the Old-World cities that drowse by the Eastern main:
"Send me your weary, house-worn broods and I'll send you Men again!
Lo, here in my wind-swept reaches, by my marshalled peaks of snow,
Is room for a larger reaping than your o'ertilled fields can grow.
Seed of the Main Seed springing to stature and strength in my sun,
Free with a limitless freedom no battles of men have won,"
For men, like the grain of the corn fields, grow small in the huddled
  crowd,
And weak for the breath of spaces where a soul may speak aloud;
For hills, like stairways to heaven, shaming the level track,
And sick with the clang of pavements and the marts of the trafficking
  pack.

SHARLOT MABRIDTH HALL.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. The Second Generation Is Removed

II. How the First Generation Once Righted Itself

III. Billy Brue Finds His Man

IV. The West Against the East

V. Over the Hills

VI. A Meeting and a Clashing

VII. The Rapid-fire Lorgnon Is Spiked

VIII. Up Skiplap Canon

IX. Three Letters, Private and Confidential

X. The Price of Averting a Scandal

XI. How Uncle Peter Bines Once Cut Loose

XII. Plans for the Journey East

XIII. The Argonauts Return to the Rising Sun

XIV. Mr. Higbee Communicates Some Valuable Information

XV. Some Light With a Few Side-lights

XVI. With the Barbaric Hosts

XVII. The Patricians Entertain

XVIII. The Course of True Love at a House Party

XIX. An Afternoon Stroll and an Evening Catastrophe

XX. Doctor Von Herslich Expounds the Hightower Hotel and Certain Allied Phenomena

XXI. The Diversions of a Young Multi-millionaire

XXII. The Distressing Adventure of Mrs. Bines

XXIII. The Summer Campaign Is Planned

XXIV. The Sight of a New Beauty, and Some Advice from Higbee

XXV. Horace Milbrey Upholds the Dignity of His House

XXVI. A Hot Day in New York, with News of an Interesting Marriage

XXVII. A Sensational Turn in the Milbrey Fortunes

XXVIII. Uncle Peter Bines Comes to Town With His Man

XXIX. Uncle Peter Bines Threatens to Raise Something

XXX. Uncle Peter Inspires His Grandson to Worthy Ambitions

XXXI. Concerning Consolidated Copper and Peter Bines as Matchmakers

XXXII. Devotion to Business and a Chance Meeting

XXXIII. The Amateur Napoleon of Wall Street

XXXIV. How the Chinook Came to Wall Street

XXXV. The News Broken, Whereupon an Engagement is Broken

XXXVI. The God in the Machine

XXXVII. The Departure of Uncle Peter--And Some German Philosophy

XXXVIII. Some Phenomena Peculiar to Spring

XXXIX. An Unusual Plan of Action Is Matured

XL. Some Rude Behaviour, of Which Only a Western Man Could Be Guilty

XLI. The New Argonauts

ILLUSTRATIONS

"The fair and sometimes uncertain daughter of the house of Milbrey"

"'Well, Billy Brue,--what's doin'?'"

"The spell was broken"

"'Why, you'd be Lady Casselthorpe, with dukes and counts takin' off their crowns to you'"

"'Remember that saying of your pa's, "it takes all kinds of fools to make a world"'"

"'Say it that way--" Miss Milbrey is engaged with Mr. Bines, and can't see you"'"

THE SPENDERS

CHAPTER I.

The Second Generation is Removed

When Daniel J. Bines died of apoplexy in his private car at Kaslo Junction no one knew just
where to reach either his old father or his young son with the news of his death. Somewhere
up the eastern slope of the Sierras the old man would be leading, as he had long chosen to
lead each summer, the lonely life of a prospector. The young man, two years out of Harvard,
and but recently back from an extended European tour, was at some point on the North Atlantic
coast, beginning the season's pursuit of happiness as he listed.

Only in a land so young that almost the present dwellers therein have made it might we find
individualities which so decisively failed to blend. So little congruous was the family of
Bines in root, branch, and blossom, that it might, indeed, be taken to picture an epic of Western
life as the romancer would tell it. First of the line stands the figure of Peter Bines, the
pioneer, contemporary with the stirring days of Fremont, of Kit Carson, of Harney, and Bridger;
the fearless strivers toward an ever-receding West, fascinating for its untried dangers as
for its fabled wealth,--the sturdy, grave men who fought and toiled and hoped, and realised
in varying measure, but who led in sober truth a life such as the colours of no taleteller
shall ever be high enough to reproduce.

Next came Daniel J. Bines, a type of the builder and organiser who followed the trail blazed
by the earlier pioneer; the genius who, finding the magic realm opened, forthwith became its
exploiter to its vast renown and his own large profit, coining its wealth of minerals, lumber,
cattle, and grain, and adventurously building the railroads that must always be had to drain
a new land of savagery.

Nor would there be wanting a third--a figure of this present day, containing, in potency at
least, the stanch qualities of his two rugged forbears,--the venturesome spirit that set his
restless grandsire to roving westward, the power to group and coordinate, to "think three moves
ahead" which had made his father a man of affairs; and, further, he had something modern of
his own that neither of the others possessed, and yet which came as the just fruit of the parent
vine: a disposition perhaps a bit less strenuous, turning back to the risen rather than forward
to the setting sun; a tendency to rest a little from the toil and tumult; to cultivate some
graces subtler than those of adventure and commercialism; to make the most of what had been
done rather than strain to the doing of needless more; to live, in short, like a philosopher
and a gentleman who has more golden dollars a year than either philosophers or gentlemen are
wont to enjoy.

And now the central figure had gone suddenly at the age of fifty-two, after the way of certain
men who are quick, ardent, and generous in their living. From his luxurious private car, lying
on the side-track at the dreary little station, Toler, private secretary to the millionaire,
had telegraphed to the headquarters of one important railway company the death of its president,
and to various mining, milling, and lumbering companies the death of their president, vice-president,
or managing director as the case might be. For the widow and only daughter word of the calamity
had gone to a mountain resort not far from the family home at Montana City.

There promised to be delay in reaching the other two. The son would early read the news, Toler
decided, unless perchance he were off at sea, since the death of a figure like Bines would
be told by every daily newspaper in the country. He telegraphed, however, to the young man's
New York apartments and to a Newport address, on the chance of finding him.

Locating old Peter Bines at this season of the year was a feat never lightly to be undertaken,
nor for any trivial end. It being now the 10th of June, it could be known with certainty only
that in one of four States he was prowling through some wooded canon, toiling over a windy
pass, or scaling a mountain sheerly, in his ancient and best loved sport of prospecting. Knowing
his habits, the rashest guesser would not have attempted to say more definitely where the old
man might be.

The most promising plan Toler could devise was to wire the superintendent of the "One Girl"
Mine at Skiplap. The elder Bines, he knew, had passed through Skiplap about June 1st, and had
left, perhaps, some inkling of his proposed route; if it chanced, indeed, that he had taken
the trouble to propose one.

Pangburn, the mine superintendent, on receipt of the news, despatched five men on the search
in as many different directions. The old man was now seventy-four, and Pangburn had noted when
last they met that he appeared to be somewhat less agile and vigorous than he had been twenty
years before; from which it was fair to reason that he might be playing his solitary game at
a leisurely pace, and would have tramped no great distance in the ten days he had been gone.
The searchers, therefore, were directed to beat up the near-by country. To Billy Brue was allotted
the easiest as being the most probable route. He was to follow up Paddle Creek to Four Forks,
thence over the Bitter Root trail to Eden, on to Oro Fino, and up over Little Pass to Hellandgone.
He was to proceed slowly, to be alert for signs along the way, and to make inquiries of all he met.

"You're likely to get track of Uncle Peter," said Pangburn, "over along the west side of Horseback
Ridge, just beyond Eden. When he pulled out he was talking about some likely float-rock he'd
picked up over that way last summer. You'd ought to make that by to-morrow, seeing you've got
a good horse and the trail's been mended this spring. Now you spread yourself out, Billy, and
when you get on to the Ridge make a special look all around there."

Besides these directions and the telegram from Toler, Billy Brue took with him a copy of the
Skiplap Weekly Ledge, damp from the press and containing the death notice of Daniel J. Bines,
a notice sent out by the News Association, which Billy Brue read with interest as he started
up the trail. The item concluded thus:

"The young and beautiful Mrs. Bines, who had been accompanying her husband on his trip of inspection
over the Sierra Northern, is prostrated with grief at the shock of his sudden death."

Billy Brue mastered this piece of intelligence after six readings, but he refrained from comment,
beyond thanking God, in thought, that he could mind his own business under excessive provocation
to do otherwise. He considered it no meddling, however, to remember that Mrs. Daniel J. Bines,
widow of his late employer, could appear neither young nor beautiful to the most sanguine of
newsgatherers; nor to remember that he happened to know she had not accompanied her husband
on his last trip of inspection over the Kaslo Division of the Sierra Northern Railway.

CHAPTER II.

How the First Generation Once Righted Itself

By some philosophers unhappiness is believed--rather than coming from deprivation or infliction--to
result from the individual's failure to select from a number of possible occupations one that
would afford him entire satisfaction with life and himself. To this perverse blindness they
attribute the dissatisfaction with great wealth traditional of men who have it. The fault,
they contend, is not with wealth inherently. The most they will admit against money is that
the possession of much of it tends to destroy that judicial calm necessary to a wise choice
of recreations; to incline the possessor, perhaps, toward those that are unsalutary.

Concerning the old man that Billy Brue now sought with his news of death, a philosopher of
this school would unhesitatingly declare that he had sounded the last note of human wisdom.
Far up in some mountain solitude old Peter Bines, multimillionaire, with a lone pack-mule to
bear his meagre outfit, picked up float-rock, tapped and scanned ledges, and chipped at boulders
with the same ardour that had fired him in his penniless youth.

