"Fair son, this castle is yours, and this land round about whereof I have been reft ought to
be yours of right, for it falleth to you on behalf of your father and me.  Wherefore send to
the Lord of the Moors that hath reft it from me, that he render it to you.  I make no further
claim, for I pass it on to you; for nought have I now to do with any land save only so much
as will be enough wherein to bury my body when I die, nor shall I now live much longer since
King Fisherman my brother is dead, whereof right sorrowful am I at heart, and still more sorrowful
should I be were it not for your coming.  And, son, I tell you plainly that you have great
blame of his death, for you are the knight through whom he fell first into languishment, for
now at last I know well that and if you had afterwards gone back and so made the demand that
you made not at the first, he would have come back to health.  But our Lord God willed it so
to be, wherefore well beseemeth us to yield to His will and pleasure."

XXVII.

Perceval hath heard his mother, but right little hath he answered her, albeit greatly is he
pleased with whatsoever she hath said. His face is to-flushed of hardiment, and courage hath
taken hold on him.  His mother looketh at him right fainly, and hath him disarmed and apparelled
in a right rich robe.  So comely a knight was he that in all the world might not be found one
of better seeming nor better shapen of body.  The Lord of the Moors, that made full certain
of having his mother's castle, knew of Perceval's coming.  He was not at all dismayed in semblant,
nor would he stint to ride by fell nor forest, and every day he weened in his pride that the
castle should be his own at the hour and the term he had set thereof.  One of the five knights
of the Widow Lady was one day gone into the Lonely Forest after hart and hind, and had taken
thereof at his will.  He was returning back to the castle and the huntsmen with him, when the
Lord of the Moors met him and told him he had done great hardiment in shooting with the bow
in the forest, and the knight made answer that the forest was not his of right, but the Lady's
of Camelot and her son's that had repaired thither.

XXVIII.

The Lord of the Moors waxed wroth.  He held a sword in his hand and thrust him therewith through
the body and slew him.  The knight was borne dead to the castle of Camelot before the Widow
Lady and her son.

"Fair son," saith the Widow Lady, "More presents of such-like kind the Lord of the Moors sendeth
me than I would.  Never may he be satisfied of harming my land and shedding the blood of the
bodies of my knights. Now may you well know how many a hurt he hath done me sithence that your
father hath been dead and you were no longer at the castle, sith that this hath he done me
even now that you are here.  You have the name of Perceval on this account, that tofore you
were born, he had begun to reave your father of the Valleys of Camelot, for your father was
an old knight and all his brethren were dead, and therefore he gave you this name in baptism,
for that he would remind you of the mischief done to him and to you, and that you might help
to retrieve it and you should have the power."

The Dame maketh shroud the knight, for whom she is full sorrowful, and on the morrow hath mass
sung and burieth him. Perceval made arm two of the old knights with him, then issued forth
of the castle and entered the great dark forest.  He rode until he came before a castle, and
met five knights that issued forth all armed.  He asked whose men they were.  They answer,
the Lord's of the Moors, and that he goeth seek the son of the Widow Lady that is in the forest.

"If we may deliver him up to our lord, good guerdon shal we have thereof."

"By my faith," saith Perceval, "You have not far to seek.  I am here!"

XXIX.

Perceval smiteth his horse of his spurs and cometh to the first in such sort that he passeth
his spear right through his body and beareth him to the ground dead.  The other two knights
each smote his man so that they wounded them in the body right sore.  The other two would fain
have fled, but Perceval preventeth them, and they gave themselves up prisoners for fear of
death.  He bringeth all four to the castle of Camelot and presenteth them to his lady mother.

"Lady," saith he, "see here the quittance for your knight that was slain, and the fifth also
remaineth lying on the piece of ground shent in like manner as was your own."

"Fair son," saith she, "I should have better loved peace after another sort, and so it might be."

"Lady," saith he, "Thus is it now.  One ought to make war against the warrior, and be at peace
with the peaceable."

The knights are put in prison.  The tidings are come to the Lord of the Moors that the son
of the Widow Lady hath slain one of his knights and carried off four to prison.  Thereof hath
he right great wrath at heart, and sweareth and standeth to it that never will he be at rest
until he shall have either taken or slain him, and that, so there were any knight in his land
that would deliver him up, he would give him one of the best castles in his country. The more
part are keen to take Perceval.  Eight came for that intent before him all armed in the forest
of Camelot, and hunted and drove wild deer in the purlieus of the forest so that they of the
castle saw them.

XXX.

Perceval was in his mother's chapel, where he heard mass; and when the mass was sung, his sister
said: "Fair brother, see here the most holy cloth that I brought from the chapel of the Grave-yard
Perilous.  Kiss it and touch it with your face, for a holy hermit told me that never should
our land be conquered back until such time as you should have hereof."

Perceval kisseth it, then toucheth his eyes and face therewith. Afterward he goeth to arm him,
and the four knights with him; then he issueth forth of the chamber and mounteth on his horse,
then goeth out of the gateway like a lion unchained.  He sitteth on a tall horse all covered.
He cometh nigh the eight knights that were all armed, man and horse, and asketh them what folk
they be and what they seek, and they say that they are enemies of the Widow Lady and her son.

"Then you do I defy!" saith Perceval.

He cometh to them a great run, and the four knights with him, and each one overthroweth his
own man so roughly that either he is wounded in his body or maimed of arm or leg.  The rest
held the melly to the utmost they might endure.  Perceval made take them and bring to the castle,
and the other five that they had overthrown.  The Lord of the Moors was come to shoot with
a bow, and he heard the noise of the knights, and cometh thitherward a great gallop all armed.

"Sir," saith one of the old knights to Perceval, "Look!  here is the Lord of the Moors coming,
that hath reft your mother of her land and slain her men.  Of him will it be good to take vengeance.
See, how boldly he cometh."

Perceval looketh on him as he that loveth him not, and cometh toward him as hard as his horse
may carry him, and smiteth him right through the breast so strongly that he beareth to the
ground him and his horse together all in a heap.  He alighteth to the ground and draweth his sword.

"How?" saith the Lord of the Moors, "Would you then slay me and put me in worse plight than I am?"

"By my head," saith Perceval, "No, nor so swiftly, but I will slay you enough, betimes!"

"So it seemeth you," saith the Lord of the Moors, "But it shall not be yet!"

He leapeth up on his feet and runneth on Perceval, sword drawn, as one that fain would harm
him if he might.  But Perceval defendeth himself as good knight should, and giveth such a buffet
at the outset as smiteth off his arm together with his sword. The knights that came after fled
back all discomfited when they saw their lord wounded.  And Perceval made lift him on a horse
and carry him to the castle and presenteth him to his mother.

"Lady," saith he, "See here the Lord of the Moors!  Well might you expect him eftsoons, sith
that you were to have yielded him up your castle the day after to-morrow!"

XXXI.

"Lady," saith the Lord of the Moors, "Your son hath wounded me and taken my knights and myself
likewise.  I will yield you up your castle albeit I hold it mine as of right, on condition
you cry me quit."

"And who shall repay her," saith Perceval, "for the shame that you have done her, for her knights
that you have slain, whereof never had you pity?  Now, so help me God, if she have mercy or
pity upon you, never hereafter will I trouble to come to her aid how sore soever may be her
need.  Such pity and none other as you have had for her and my sister will I have for you.
Our Lord God commanded in both the Old Law and the New, that justice should be done upon man-slayers
and traitors, and justice will I do upon you that His commandment be not transgressed."

He hath a great vat made ready in the midst of the court, and maketh the eleven knights be
brought. H e maketh their heads be stricken off into the vat and bleed therein as much blood
as might come from them, and then made the heads and the bodies be drawn forth so that nought
was there but blood in the vat.  After that, he made disarm the Lord of the Moors and be brought
before the vat wherein was great abundance of blood.  He made bind his feet and his hands right
strait, and after that saith: "Never might you be satisfied of the blood of the knights of
my lady mother, now will I satisfy you of the blood of your own knights!"

He maketh hang him by the feet in the vat, so that his head were in the blood as far as the
shoulders, and so maketh him be held there until that he was drowned and quenched.  After that,
he made carry his body and the bodies of the other knights and their heads, and made them be
cast into an ancient charnel that was beside an old chapel in the forest, and the vat together
with the blood made he be cast into the river, so that the water thereof was all bloody.  The
tidings came to the castles that the son of the Widow Lady had slain the Lord of the Moors
and the best of his knights.  Thereof were they in sore misgiving, and the most part said that
the like also would he do to them save they held themselves at his commandment.  They brought
him the keys of all the castles that had been reft of his mother, and all the knights that
had before renounced their allegiance returned thereunto and pledged themselves to be at his
will for dread of death. All the land was assured in safety, nor was there nought to trouble
the Lady's joy save only that King Fisherman her brother was dead, whereof she was right sorrowful
and sore afflicted.

XXXII.

One day the Widow Lady sate at meat, and there was great plenty of knights in the hall.  Perceval
sate him beside his sister. Thereupon, behold you the Damsel of the Car that came with the
other two damsels before the Widow Lady and her son, and saluted them right nobly.

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Good adventure may you have!"

"Sir," saith she, "You have speeded right well of your business here, now go speed it elsewhere,
for thereof is the need right sore.  King Hermit, that is your mother's brother, sendeth you
word that, and you come not with haste into the land that was King Fisherman's your uncle,
the New Law that God hath stablished will be sore brought low.  For the King of Castle Mortal,
that hath seized the land and castle, hath made be cried throughout all the country how all
they that would fain maintain the Old Law and abandon the New shall have protection of him
and counsel and aid, and they that will not shall be destroyed and outlawed."

"Ha, fair son," saith the Widow Lady, "Now have you heard the great disloyalty of the evil
man that is my brother, whereof am I right sorrowful, for that he is of my kindred."

"Lady," saith Perceval, "Your brother nor my uncle is he no longer, sith that he denieth God!
Rather is he our mortal enemy that we ought of right to hate more than any stranger!"

XXXIII.

"Fair son," saith the Widow Lady, "I pray and beseech you that the Law of the Saviour be not
set aside in forgetfulness and neglect there where you may exalt it, for better Lord in no
wise may you serve, nor one that better knoweth how to bestow fair guerdon.  Fair son, none
may be good knight that serveth Him not and loveth Him.  Take heed that you be swift in His
service nor delay not for no intent, but be ever at His commandment alike at eventide as in
the morning, so shall you not bely your lineage. And the Lord God grant you good intent therein
and good will to go on even as you have begun."

The Widow Lady, that much loved her son, riseth up from the tables, and all the other knights,
and seemeth it that she is Lady of her land in such sort as that never was she better.  But
full often doth she give thanks to the Saviour of the World with her whole heart, and prayeth
Him of His pleasure grant her son length of life for the amendment both of soul and body. 
Perceval was with his mother of a long space, and with his sister, and was much feared and
honoured of all the knights of the land, alike for his great wisdom and great pains-taking,
as well as for the valour of his knighthood.

BRANCH XVI.

TITLE I.

This High History saith that Messire Gawain and Lancelot were repaired to the court of King
Arthur from the quest they had achieved.  The King made great joy thereof and the Queen.  King
Arthur sate one day at meat by the side of the Queen, and they had been served of the first
meats. Thereupon come two knights all armed, and each bore a dead knight before him, and the
knights were still armed as they had been when their bodies were alive.

"Sir," say the knights, "This shame and this mischief is yours. In like manner will you lose
all your knights betimes and God love you not well enough to give counsel herein forthwith
of his mercy."

"Lords," saith the King, "How came these knights to be in so evil case?"

"Sir," say they, "It is of good right you ought to know.  The Knight of the Fiery Dragon is
entered into the head of your land, and is destroying knights and castles and whatsoever he
may lay hands on, in such sort that none durst contend against him, for he is taller by a foot
than any knight ever you had, and of grisly cheer, and so is his sword three times bigger than
the sword of ever another knight, and his spear is well as heavy as a man may carry.  Two knights
might lightly cover them of his shield, and it hath on the outer side the head of a dragon
that casteth forth fire and flame whensoever he will, so eager and biting that none may long
endure his encounter."

II.

"None other, how strong soever he be, may stand against him, and, even as you see, hath he
burnt and evil-entreated all other knights that have withstood him."

"From what land hath come such manner of man?"

"Sir," say the knights, "He is come from the Giant's castle, and he warreth upon you for the
love of Logrin the Giant, whose head Messire Kay brought you into your court, nor never, saith
he, will he have joy until such time as he shall have avenged him on your body or upon the
knight that you love best."

"Our Lord God," saith the King, "Will defend us from so evil a man."

He is risen from the table, all scared, and maketh carry the two dead knights to be buried,
and the others turn back again when they have told their message.  The King calleth Messire
Gawain and Lancelot and asketh them what he shall do of this knight that is entered into his land?

"By my head, I know not what to say, save you give counsel herein."

"Sir," saith Lancelot, "We will go against him, so please you, I and Messire Gawain between us."

"By my head," saith the King, "I would not let you go for a kingdom, for such man as is this
is no knight but a devil and a fiend that hath issued from the borders of Hell.  I say not
but that it were great worship and prize to slay and conquer him, but he that should go against
him should set his own life in right sore jeopardy and run great hazard of being in as bad
plight as these two knights I have seen."

The King was in such dismay that he knew not neither what to say nor to do, and so was all
the court likewise in such sort as no knight neither one nor another was minded to go to battle
with him, and so remained the court in great dismay.

BRANCH XVII.

INCIPIT.

Here beginneth one of the master branches of the Graal in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost.

TITLE I.

Perceval had been with his mother as long as it pleased him.  He hath departed with her good
will and the good will of his sister, and telleth them he will return into the land as speedily
as he may.  He entereth into the great Lonely Forest, and rideth so far on his journeys that
he cometh one day at the right hour of noon into a passing fair launde, and seeth a forest.
He looketh amidst the launde and seeth a red cross.  He looketh to the head of the launde and
seeth a right comely knight sitting in the shadow of the forest, and he was clad in white garments
and held a vessel of gold in his hand.  At the other end of the launde he seeth a damsel likewise
sitting, young and gentle and of passing great beauty, and she was clad in a white samite dropped
of gold. Josephus telleth us by the divine scripture that out of the forest issued a beast,
white as driven snow, and it was bigger than a fox and less than a hare.  The beast came into
the launde all scared, for she had twelve hounds in her belly, that quested within like as
it were hounds in a wood, and she fled adown the launde for fear of the hounds, the questing
whereof she had within her.  Perceval rested on the shaft of his spear to look at the marvel
of this beast, whereof he had right great pity, so gentle was she of semblance, and of so passing
beauty, and by her eyes it might seem that they were two emeralds.  She runneth to the knight,
all affrighted, and when she hath been there awhile and the hounds rend her again, she runneth
to the damsel, but neither there may she stay long time, for the hounds that are within her
cease not of their questing, whereof is she sore adread.

II.

She durst not venture herself in the forest.  She seeth Perceval and so cometh toward him for
protection.  She maketh as though she would lie down on his horse's neck, and he holdeth forth
his hands to receive her there so as that she might not hurt herself, and evermore the hounds
quested.  Howbeit the knight crieth out to him, "Sir Knight, let the beast go and hold her
not, for this belongeth neither to you nor to other, but let her dree her weird."

The beast seeth that no protection hath she.  She goeth to the cross, and forthwith might the
hounds no longer be in her, but issued forth all as it were live hounds, but nought had they
of her gentleness nor her beauty.  She humbled herself much among them and crouched on the
ground and made semblant as though she would have cried them mercy, and gat herself as nigh
the cross as she might.  The hounds had compassed her round about and ran in upon her upon
all sides and tore her all to pieces with their teeth, but no power had they to devour her
flesh, nor to remove it away from the cross.

III.

When the hounds had all to-mangled the beast, they fled away into the wood as had they been
raging mad.  The knight and the damsel came there where the beast lay in pieces at the cross,
and so taketh each his part and setteth the same on their golden vessels, and took the blood
that lay upon the earth in like manner as the flesh, and kiss the place, and adore the cross,
and then betake them into the forest.  Perceval alighteth and setteth him on his knees before
the cross and so hisseth and adoreth it, and the place where the beast was slain, in like manner
as he had seen the knight and damsel do; and there came to him a smell so sweet of the cross
and of the place, such as no sweetness may be compared therewith.  He looketh and seeth coming
from the forest two priests all afoot; and the first shouteth to him: "Sir Knight, withdraw
yourself away from the cross, for no right have you to come nigh it.": Perceval draweth him
back, and the priest kneeleth before the cross and adoreth it and boweth down and kisseth it
more than a score times, and manifesteth the most joy in the world.  And the other priest cometh
after, and bringeth a great rod, and setteth the first priest aside by force, and beateth the
cross with the rod in every part, and weepeth right passing sore.

IV.

Perceval beholdeth him with right great wonderment, and saith unto him, "Sir, herein seem you
to be no priest!  wherefore do you so great shame?"

"Sir," saith the priest, "It nought concerneth you of whatsoever we may do, nor nought shall
you know thereof for us!"

Had he not been a priest, Perceval would have been right wroth with him, but he had no will
to do him any hurt.  Therewithal he departeth and mounteth his horse and entereth the forest
again, all armed, but scarce had he ridden away in such sort or ever he met the Knight Coward,
that cried out to him as far as he could see him, "Sir, for God's sake, take heed to yourself!"

"What manner man are you?" saith Perceval.

"Sir," saith he, "My name is the Knight Coward, and I am man of the Damsel of the Car.  Wherefore
I pray you for God's sake and for your own valour that you touch me not."

Perceval looketh on him and seeth him tall and comely and well-shapen and adroit and all armed
upon his horse, so he saith to him, "Sith that you are so coward, wherefore are you armed thus?"

"Sir," saith he, "Against the evil intent of any knight of whom I am adread, for such an one
might haply meet me as would slay me forthwith."

V.

"Are you so coward as you say?" saith Perceval.

"Yea," saith he, "And much more."

"By my head," saith he, "I will make you hardy.  Come now along with me, for sore pity is it
that cowardize should harbour in so comely a knight.  I am fain that your name be changed speedily,
for such name beseemeth no knight."

"Ha, Sir, for God's sake, mercy!  Now know I well that you desire to slay me!  No will have
I to change neither my courage nor my name!"

"By my head," saith Perceval, "Then will you die therefor, betimes!"

He maketh him go before him, will he or nill he; and the knight goeth accordingly with right
sore grudging.  They had scarce ridden away, when he heard in the forest off the way, two damsels
that bewailed them right sore, and prayed our Lord God send them succour betimes.

VI.

Perceval cometh towards them, he and the knight he driveth before him perforce, and seeth a
tall knight all armed that leadeth the damsels all dishevelled, and smiteth them from time
to time with a great rod, so that the blood ran down their faces.

"Ha, Sir Knight," saith Perceval, "What ask you of these two damsels that you entreat so churlishly?"

"Sir," saith he, "They have disherited me of mine own hold in this forest that Messire Gawain
gave them."

"Sir," say they to Perceval, "This knight is a robber, and none other but he now wonneth in
this forest, for the other robber-knights were slain by Messire Gawain and Lancelot and another
knight that came with them, and, for the sore suffering and poverty that Messire Gawain and
Lancelot saw in us aforetime, and in the house of my brother in whose castle they lay, were
they fain to give us this hold and the treasure they conquered from the robber-knights, and
for this doth he now lead us away to slay and destroy us, and as much would he do for you and
all other knights, so only he had the power."

"Sir Knight," saith Perceval, "Let be these damsels, for well I know that they say true, for
that I was there when the hold was given them."

"Then you helped to slay my kindred," saith the knight, "And therefore you do I defy!"

"Ha," saith the Knight Coward to Perceval, "Take no heed of that he saith, and wax not wroth,
but go your way!"

"Certes," saith Perceval, "This will I not do: Rather will I help to challenge the honour of
the damsels."

VII.

"Ha, Sir," saith the Knight Coward, "Never shall it be challenged of me!"

Perceval draweth him back.  "Sir," saith he, "See here my champion that I set in my place."

The robber knight moveth toward him, and smiteth him so sore on the shield that he breaketh
his spear, but he might not unseat the Coward Knight, that sate still upright as aforehand
in the saddle-bows.  He looketh at the other knight that hath drawn his sword.  The Knight
Coward looketh on the one side and the other, and would fain have fled and he durst.  But Perceval
crieth to him: "Knight, do your endeavour to save my honour and your own life and the honour
of these two damsels!"

And the robber-knight dealeth him a great buffet of his sword so as that it went nigh to stun
him altogether.  Howbeit the Coward Knight moveth not.  Perceval looketh at him in wonderment
and thinketh him that he hath set too craven a knight in his place, and now at last knoweth
well that he spake truth.  The robber-knight smiteth him all over his body and giveth him so
many buffets that the knight seeth his own blood.

"By my head," saith he, "You have wounded me, but you shall pay therefor, for I supposed not
that you were minded to slay me!"

He draweth his sword, that was sharp and strong, and smiteth his horse right sore hard of his
spurs, and catcheth the knight with his sword right in the midst of his breast with a sweep
so strong that he beareth him to the ground beside his horse.  He alighteth over him, unlaceth
his ventail and smiteth down his coif, then striketh off his head and presenteth it to Perceval.

"Sir," saith he, "Here give I you of my first joust."

"By my head," said Perceval, "Right dearly love I this present! Now take heed that you never
again fall back into the cowardize wherein you have been.  For it is too sore shame to a knight!"

"Sir," saith he, "I will not, but never should I have believed that one could become hardy
so speedily, or otherwise long ago would I have become so, and so should I have had worship
and honour thereof, for many a knight hath held me in contempt herein, that elsewise would
have honoured me."

Perceval answereth that right and reason it is that worshipful men should be more honoured
than the other.

"I commend these two damsels to your protection, and lead them to their hold in safety, and
be at their pleasure and their will, and so say everywhere that you have for name the Knight
Hardy, for more of courtesy hath this name than the other."

"Sir," saith he, "You say true, and you have I to thank for the name."

The damsels give great thanks to Perceval, and take leave of him, and so go their way with
right good will toward the knight that goeth with them on account of the knight he had slain,
so that thereof called they him the Knight Hardy.

VIII.

