And then quite suddenly, even as he was on the point of turning, another wave of revellers
swept frantically up, and in a moment Gustavus and the Count of Essen were surrounded. Another
moment and the buffeting crowd had separated him from his grand equerry. He found himself alone
in the centre of this knot of wild fellows who, seeming to mistake him for one of themselves,
forced him onward with them in their career. For a moment he attempted to resist. But as well
might he have resisted a torrent. Their rush was not to be stemmed. It almost swept him from
his feet, and to save himself he must perforce abandon himself to the impetus. Thus he was
swirled away across the floor of the amphitheatre, helpless as a swimmer in strong waters,
and with the fear of the drowning clutching now at his heart.

He had an impulse to unmask, proclaim himself, and compel the respect that was his due. But
to do so might be to expose himself to the very danger of whose presence he was now convinced.
His only hope must lie in allowing himself to be borne passively along until a chance opening
allowed him to escape from these madmen.

The stage had been connected with the floor of the theatre by a broad flight of wooden steps.
Up this flight he was carried by that human wave. But on the stage itself he found an anchorage
at last against one of the wings. Breathing hard, he set his back to it, waiting for the wave
to sweep on and leave him. Instead, it paused and came to rest with him, and in that moment
some one touched him on the shoulder. He turned his head, and looked into the set face of Ankarstrom,
who was close behind him. Then a burning, rending pain took him in his side, and he grew sick
and dizzy. The uproar of voices became muffled; the lights were merged into a luminous billow
that swelled and shrank and then went out altogether.

The report of the pistol had been lost in the general din to all but those who stood near the
spot where it had been fired. And these found themselves suddenly borne backwards by the little
crowd of maskers that fell away from the figure lying prone and bleeding on the stage.

Voices were raised, shouting "Fire! Fire!" Thus the conspirators sought to create confusion,
that they might disperse and lose themselves in the general crowd. That confusion, however,
was very brief. It was stemmed almost immediately by the Count of Essen, who leapt up the steps
to the stage with a premonition of what had happened. He stooped to rip away the mask from
the face of the victim, and, beholding, as he had feared, the livid countenance of his King,
he stood up, himself almost as pale.

"Murder has been done!" he roared. "Let the doors be closed and guarded, and let no one leave
the theatre." Instantly was his bidding done by the officers of the guard.

Those of the King's household who were in attendance came forward now to raise Gustavus, and
help to bear him to a couch. There presently he recovered consciousness, whilst a physician
was seeing to his hurt, and as soon as he realized his condition his manner became so calm
that, himself, he took command of the situation. He issued orders that the gates of the city
should be closed against everybody, whilst himself apologizing to the Prussian minister who
was near him for issuing that inconvenient but necessary order.

"The gates shall remain closed for three days, sir," he announced. "During that time you will
not be able to correspond with your Court; but your intelligence, when it goes, will be more
certain, since by that time it should be known whether I can survive or not."

His next order, delivered in a voice that was broken by his intense suffering, was to the chamberlain
Benzelstjerna, commanding that all present should unmask and sign their names in a book before
being suffered to depart. That done, he bade them bear him home on the couch on which he had
been placed that he might be spared the agony of more movement than was necessary.

Thus his grenadiers bore him on their shoulders, lighted by torches, through the streets that
were now thronged, for the rumour had now gone forth that the King was dead, and troops had
been called out to keep order. Beside him walked Armfelt in his suit of shimmering white satin,
weeping at once for his King and for himself, for he knew that he was of those who must fall
with Gustavus. And, knowing this, there was bitter rage in his heart against the men who had
wrought this havoc, a rage that sharpened his wits to an unusual acuteness.

At last the King was once more in his apartments awaiting the physicians who were to pronounce
his fate, and Armfelt kept him company among others, revolving in his mind the terrible suspicion
he had formed.

Presently came Duke Charles, the King's brother, and Benzelstjerna with the list of those who
had been present at the ball.

"Tell me," he asked, before the list was read to him, "is the name of Ankarstrom included in it?"

"He was the last to sign, Sire," replied the chamberlain.

The King smiled grimly. "Tell Lillesparre to have him arrested and questioned."

Armfelt flung forward. "There is another who should be arrested, too!" he cried fiercely. And
added, "Bjelke!"

"Bjelke?"

The King echoed the name almost in anger at the imputation. Armfelt spoke torrentially. "It
was he persuaded you to go against your own judgment when you had the warning, and at last
induced you to it by offering to assume your own domino. If the assassins sought the King,
how came they to pass over one who wore the King's domino, and to penetrate your own disguise
that was like a dozen others? Because they were informed of the change. But by whom--by whom?
Who was it knew?"

"My God!" groaned the unfortunate King, who had in his time broken faith with so many, and
was now to suffer the knowledge of this broken faith in one whom he had trusted above all others.

Baron Bjelke was arrested an hour later, arrested in the very act of entering his own home.
The men of Lillesparre's police had preceded him thither to await his return. He was quite
calm when they surged suddenly about him, laid hands upon him, and formally pronounced him
their prisoner.

"I suppose," he said, "it was to have been inferred. Allow me to take my leave of the Baroness,
and I shall be at your disposal."

"My orders, Baron, are explicit," he was answered by the officer in charge. "I am not to suffer
you out of my sight."

"How? Am I to be denied so ordinary a boon?" His voice quivered with sudden anger and something
else.

"Such are my orders, Baron."

Bjelke pleaded for five minutes' grace for that leavetaking. But the officer had his orders.
He was no more than a machine. The Baron raised his clenched hands in mute protest to the heavens,
then let them fall heavily.

"Very well," he said, and suffered them to thrust him back into his carriage and carry him
away to the waiting Lillesparre.

He found Armfelt in the office of the chief of the police, haranguing Ankarstrom, who was already
there under arrest. The favourite broke off as Bjelke was brought in.

"You were privy to this infamy, Bjelke," he cried. "If the King does not recover--"

"He will not recover." It was the cold, passionless voice of Ankarstrom that spoke. "My pistol
was loaded with rusty nails. I intended to make quite sure of ridding my country of that perjured
tyrant."

Armfelt stared at the prisoner a moment with furious, bloodshot eyes. Then he broke into imprecations,
stemmed only when Lillesparre ordered Ankarstrom to be removed. When he was gone, the chief
of police turned to Bjelke.

