My father had been intimately acquainted with William Case and James Evans, and at times had
been partially associated with them in Indian evangelisation.  He had faith in the power of
the Gospel to save even Indians, and now rejoiced that he had a son and daughter who had consecrated
themselves to this work.

As a long journey of many hundreds of miles would have to be made by us after getting beyond
cars or steamboats in the Western States, it was decided that we should take our own horses
and canvas-covered waggons from Ontario with us.  We arranged to make Hamilton our starting-point;
and on Monday, the 11th of May, 1868, our little company filed out of that city towards St.
Catherine's, where we were to take passage in a "propeller" for Milwaukee.  Thus our adventurous
journey was begun.

The following was our party.  First, the Reverend George McDougall, who for years had been
successfully doing the work of a faithful missionary among the Indians in the distant Saskatchewan
country, a thousand miles north-west of the Red River country.  He had come down to Canada
for reinforcements for the work, and had not failed in his efforts to secure them.  As he was
an old, experienced Western traveller, he was the guide of the party.

Next was the Reverend George Young, with his wife and son.  Dr Young had consented to go and
begin the work in the Red River Settlement, a place where Methodism had never before had a
footing.  Grandly and well did he succeed in his efforts.

Next came the genial Reverend Peter Campbell, who, with his brave wife and two little girls,
relinquished a pleasant Circuit to go to the distant Mission field among the Indians of the
North-West prairies.  We had also with us two Messrs. Snyders, brothers of Mrs Campbell, who
had consecrated themselves to the work as teachers among the distant Indian tribes.  Several
other young men were in our party, and in Dacota we were joined by "Joe" and "Job," a couple
of young Indians.

These, with the writer and his wife, constituted our party of fifteen or twenty.  At St. Catherine's
on the Welland Canal we shipped our outfit, and took passage on board the steamer Empire for
Milwaukee.

The vessel was very much crowded, and there was a good deal of discomfort.  In passing through
Lake Michigan we encountered rough weather, and, as a natural result, sea-sickness assailed
the great majority of our party.

We reached Milwaukee on Sabbath, the 17th of May.  We found it then a lively, wide-awake Americo-German
city.  There did not seem to be, on the part of the multitudes whom we met, much respect for
the Sabbath. Business was in full blast in many of the streets, and there were but few evidences
that it was the day of rest.  Doubtless there were many who had not defiled their garments
and had not profaned the day, but we weary travellers had not then time to find them out.

Although we had taken the precaution to bond everything through to the North-West, and had
the American Consular certificate to the effect that every regulation had been complied with,
we were subjected to many vexatious delays and expenses by the Custom House officials.  So
delayed were we that we had to telegraph to head-quarters at Washington about the matter and
soon there came the orders to the over-officious officials to at once allow us to proceed.
Two valuable days, however, had been lost by their obstructiveness.  Why cannot Canada and
the United States, lying side by side, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, devise some mutually
advantageous scheme of reciprocity, by which the vexatious delays and annoyances and expense
of these Custom Houses can be done away with?

We left Milwaukee for La Crosse on the Mississippi on Tuesday evening at eight o'clock.  At
La Crosse we embarked on the steamer Milwaukee for St. Paul's.  These large flat-bottomed steamers
are quite an institution on these western rivers.  Drawing but a few inches of water, they
glide over sandbars where the water is very shallow, and, swinging in against the shore, land
and receive passengers and freight where wharves are unknown, or where, if they existed, they
would be liable to be swept away in the great spring freshets.

The scenery in many places along the upper Mississippi is very fine. High bold bluffs rise
up in wondrous variety and picturesque beauty.  In some places they are composed of naked rock.
Others are covered to their very summit with the richest green.  Here, a few years ago, the
war-whoop of the Indians sounded, and the buffalo swarmed around these Buttes, and quenched
their thirst in these waters.  Now the shrill whistle of the steamer disturbs the solitudes,
and echoes and re-echoes with wondrous distinctness among the high bluffs and fertile vales.

  "Westward the Star of Empire takes its way."

We arrived at St. Paul's on Thursday forenoon and found it to be a stirring city, beautifully
situated on the eastern side of the Mississippi.  We had several hours of good hard work in
getting our caravan in order, purchasing supplies, and making all final arrangements for the
long journey that was before us.  For beyond this the iron horse had not yet penetrated, and
the great surging waves of immigration, which soon after rolled over into those fertile territories,
had as yet been only little ripples.

Our splendid horses, which had been cooped up in the holds of vessels, or cramped up in uncomfortable
freight cars, were now to have an opportunity for exercising their limbs, and showing of what
mettle they were made.  At 4 PM we filed out of the city.  The recollection of that first ride
on the prairie will live on as long as memory holds her throne.  The day was one of those gloriously
perfect ones that are but rarely given us, as if to show what earth must have been before the
Fall.  The sky, the air, the landscape--everything seemed in such harmony and so perfect, that
involuntarily I exclaimed, "If God's footstool is so glorious, what will the throne be?"

We journeyed a few miles, then encamped for the night.  We were all in the best of spirits,
and seemed to rejoice that we were getting away from civilisation, and more and more out into
the wilderness, although for days we were in the vicinity of frontier villages and settlements,
which, however, as we journeyed on, were rapidly diminishing in number.

After several days' travelling we encamped on the western side of the Mississippi, near where
the thriving town of Clear Water now stands.  As some of our carts and travelling equipage
had begun to show signs of weakness, it was thought prudent to give everything a thorough overhauling
ere we pushed out from this point, as beyond this there was no place where assistance could
be obtained.  We had in our encampment eight tents, fourteen horses, and from fifteen to twenty
persons, counting big and little, whites and Indians.  Whenever we camped our horses were turned
loose in the luxuriant prairie grass, the only precaution taken being to "hobble" them, as
the work of tying their forefeet together is called.  It seemed a little cruel at first, and
some of our spirited horses resented it, and struggled a good deal against it as an infringement
on their liberties.  But they soon became used to it, and it served the good purpose we had
in view--namely, that of keeping them from straying far away from the camp during the night.

At one place, where we were obliged to stop for a few days to repair broken axle-trees, I passed
through an adventure that will not soon be forgotten.  Some friendly settlers came to our camp,
and gave us the unpleasant information, that a number of notorious horse-thieves were prowling
around, and it would be advisable for us to keep a sharp look- out on our splendid Canadian
horses.  As there was an isolated barn about half a mile or so from the camp, that had been
put up by a settler who would not require it until harvest, we obtained permission to use it
as a place in which to keep our horses during the nights while we were detained in the settlement.
Two of our party were detailed each night to act as a guard.  One evening, as Dr Young's son
George and I, who had been selected for this duty, were about starting from the camp for our
post, I overheard our old veteran guide, the Reverend George McDougall, say, in a bantering
sort of way, "Pretty guards they are! Why, some of my Indian boys could go and steal every
horse from them without the slightest trouble."

Stung to the quick by the remark, I replied, "Mr McDougall, I think I have the best horse in
the company; but if you or any of your Indians can steal him out of that barn between sundown
and sunrise, you may keep him!"

We tethered the horses in a line, and fastened securely all the doors but the large front one.
We arranged our seats where we were partially concealed, but where we could see our horses,
and could command every door with our rifles.  In quiet tones we chatted about various things,
until about one o'clock, when all became hushed and still.  The novelty of the situation impressed
me, and, sitting there in the darkness, I could not help contrasting my present position with
the one I had occupied a few weeks before.  Then the pastor of a city Church, in the midst
of a blessed revival, surrounded by all the comforts of civilisation; now out here in Minnesota,
in this barn, sitting on a bundle of prairie grass through the long hours of night with a breech-
loading rifle in hand, guarding a number of horses from a band of horse- thieves.

"Hush! what is that?"

A hand is surely on the door feeling for the wooden latch.  We mentally say, "You have made
too much noise, Mr Thief, for your purpose, and you are discovered."  Soon the door opened
a little.  As it was a beautiful starlight night, the form of a tall man was plainly visible
in the opening.  Covering him with my rifle, and about to fire, quick as a flash came the thought,
"Better be sure that that man is a horse-thief, or is intent on evil, ere you fire; for it
is at any time a serious thing to send a soul so suddenly into eternity."  So keeping my rifle
to my shoulder, I shouted out, "Who's there?"

"Why, it's only your friend Matthew," said our tall friend, as he came stumbling along in the
darkness; "queer if you don't know me by this time."

As the thought came to me of how near I had been to sending him into the other world, a strange
feeling of faintness came over me, and, flinging my rifle from me, I sank back trembling like
a leaf.

Meanwhile the good-natured fellow, little knowing the risk he had run, and not seeing the effect
his thoughtless action had produced on me, talked on, saying that as it was so hot and close
over at the tents that he could not sleep there, he thought he would come over and stop with
us in the barn.

There was considerable excitement, and some strong words were uttered at the camp next morning
at his breach of orders and narrow escape, since instructions had been given to all that none
should, under any consideration, go near the barn while it was being guarded.

At another place in Minnesota we came across a party who were restoring their homes, and "building
up their waste places" desolated by the terrible Sioux wars of but a short time before.  As
they had nearly all of them suffered by that fearful struggle, they were very bitter in their
feelings towards the Indians, completely ignoring the fact that the whites were to blame for
that last sanguinary outbreak, in which nine hundred lives were lost, and a section of country
larger than some of the New England States was laid desolate.  It is now an undisputed fact
that the greed and dishonesty of the Indian agents of the United States caused that terrible
war of 1863.  The principal agent received 600,000 dollars in gold from the Government, which
belonged to the Indians, and was to be paid to Little Crow and the other chiefs and members
of the tribe.  The agent took advantage of the premium on gold, which in those days was very
high, and exchanged the gold for greenbacks, and with these paid the Indians, putting the enormous
difference in his own pocket.  When the payments began, Little Crow, who knew what he had a
right to according to the Treaty, said, "Gold dollars worth more than paper dollars.  You pay
us gold."  The agent refused, and the war followed.  This is only one instance out of scores,
in which the greed and selfishness of a few have plunged the country into war, causing the
loss of hundreds of lives and millions of treasure.

In addition to this, these same unprincipled agents, with their hired accomplices and subsidised
press, in order to hide the enormity of their crimes, and to divert attention from themselves
and their crookedness, systematically and incessantly misrepresent and vilify the Indian character.

"Stay and be our minister," said some of these settlers to me in one place.  "We'll secure
for you a good location, and will help you get in some crops, and will do the best we can to
make you comfortable."

When they saw we were all proof against their appeals, they changed their tactics, and one
exclaimed, "You'll never get through the Indian country north with those fine horses and all
that fine truck you have."

"O yes, we will," said Mr McDougall; "we have a little flag that will carry us in safety through
any Indian tribe in America."

They doubted the assertion very much, but we found it to be literally true, at all events as
regarded the Sioux; for when, a few days later, we met them, our Union Jack fluttering from
the whip-stalk caused them to fling their guns in the grass, and come crowding round us with
extended hands, saying, through those who understood their language, that they were glad to
see and shake hands with the subjects of the "Great Mother" across the waters.

When we, in our journey north, reached their country, and saw them coming down upon us, at
Mr McDougall's orders we stowed away our rifles and revolvers inside of our waggons, and met
them as friends, unarmed and fearless.  They smoked the pipe of peace with those of our party
who could use the weed, and others drank tea with the rest of us.  As we were in profound ignorance
of their language, and they of ours, some of us had not much conversation with them beyond
what could be carried on by a few signs.  But, through Mr McDougall and our own Indians, they
assured us of their friendship.

We pitched our tents, hobbled our horses and turned them loose, as usual.  We cooked our evening
meals, said our prayers, unrolled our camp-beds, and lay down to rest without earthly sentinels
or guards around us, although the camp-fires of these so-called "treacherous and bloodthirsty"
Sioux could be seen in the distance, and we knew their sharp eyes were upon us.  Yet we lay
down and slept in peace, and arose in safety.  Nothing was disturbed or stolen.

So much for a clean record of honourable dealing with a people who, while quick to resent when
provoked, are mindful of kindnesses received, and are as faithful to their promises and treaty
obligations, as are any other of the races of the world.

We were thirty days in making the trip from St. Paul's to the Red River settlement.  We had
to ford a large number of bridgeless streams.  Some of them took us three or four days to get
our whole party across.  We not unfrequently had some of our waggons stuck in the quicksands,
or so sunk in the quagmires that the combined strength of all the men of our party was required
to get them out.  Often the ladies of our company, with shoes and stockings off, would be seen
bravely wading across wide streams, where now in luxurious comfort, in parlour cars, travellers
are whirled along at the rate of forty miles an hour.  They were a cheerful, brave band of
pioneers.

The weather, on the whole, was pleasant, but we had some drenching rain- storms; and then the
spirits of some of the party went down, and they wondered whatever possessed them to leave
their happy homes for such exile and wretchedness as this.  There was one fearful, tornado-like
storm that assailed us when we were encamped for the night on the western bank of Red River.
Tents were instantly blown down.  Heavy waggons were driven before it, and for a time confusion
reigned supreme. Fortunately nobody was hurt, and most of the things blown away were recovered
the next day.

Our Sabbaths were days of quiet rest and delightful communion with God. Together we worshipped
Him Who dwelleth not in temples made with hands. Many were the precious communions we had with
Him Who had been our Comforter and our Refuge under other circumstances, and Who, having now
called us to this new work and novel life, was sweetly fulfilling in us the blessed promise:
"Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."

CHAPTER TWO.

STILL ON THE ROUTE--FORT GARRY--BREAKING UP OF OUR PARTY OF MISSIONARIES--LOWER FORT--HOSPITABLE
HUDSON'S BAY OFFICIALS-- PECULIARITIES--FOURTEEN DAYS IN A LITTLE OPEN BOAT ON STORMY LAKE
WINNIPEG--STRANGE EXPERIENCES--HAPPY CHRISTIAN INDIAN BOATMEN--"IN PERILS BY WATERS."

At Fort Garry in the Red River settlement, now the flourishing city of Winnipeg, our party,
which had so long travelled together, broke up with mutual regrets.  The Reverend George Young
and his family remained to commence the first Methodist Mission in that place.  Many were his
discouragements and difficulties, but glorious have been his successes. More to him than to
any other man is due the prominent position which the Methodist Church now occupies in the
North-West.  His station was one calling for rare tact and ability.  The Riel Rebellion, and
the disaffection of the Half-breed population, made his position at times one of danger and
insecurity; but he proved himself to be equal to every emergency.  In addition to the many
duties devolving upon him in the establishment of the Church amidst so many discordant elements,
a great many extra cares were imposed upon him by the isolated missionaries in the interior,
who looked to him for the purchasing and sending out to them, as best he could, of their much-needed
supplies.  His kindly laborious efforts for their comfort can never be forgotten.

The Revs.  George McDougall and Peter Campbell, with the teachers and other members of the
party, pushed on, with their horses, waggons, and carts, for the still farther North-West,
the great North Saskatchewan River, twelve hundred miles farther into the interior.

During the first part of their journey over the fertile but then unbroken prairies, the only
inhabitants they met were the roving Indians and Half-breeds, whose rude wigwams and uncouth
noisy carts have long since disappeared, and have been replaced by the comfortable habitations
of energetic settlers, and the swiftly moving trains of the railroads.

From Fort Garry Mrs Young and myself performed the rest of our journey by water, going down
the Red River to its mouth, and then along the whole length of the stormy Lake Winnipeg, and
beyond, to our own far-off northern home.  The trip was made in what is called "the Hudson's
Bay inland boat."  These boats are constructed like large skiffs, only each end is sharp. 
They have neither deck nor cabin.  They are furnished with a mast and a large square sail,
both of which are stowed away when the wind is not favourable for sailing.  They are manned
by six or eight oarsmen, and are supposed to carry about four tons of merchandise.  They can
stand a rough sea, and weather very severe gales, as we found out during our years of adventurous
trips in them.  When there is no favourable wind for sailing, the stalwart boatmen push out
their heavy oars, and, bending their sturdy backs to the work, and keeping the most perfect
time, are often able to make their sixty miles a day.  But this toiling at the oar is slavish
work, and the favouring gale, even if it develops into a fierce storm, is always preferable
to a dead calm. These northern Indians make capital sailors, and in the sudden squalls and
fierce gales to which these great lakes are subject, they display much courage and judgment.

Our place in the boat was in the hinder part near the steersman, a pure Indian, whose name
was Thomas Mamanowatum, familiarly known as "Big Tom," on account of his almost gigantic size.
He was one of Nature's noblemen, a grand, true man, and of him we shall have more to say hereafter.
Honoured indeed was the missionary who led such a man from Paganism to Christianity.

We journeyed on pleasantly for twenty miles down the Red River to Lower Fort Garry, where we
found that we should have to wait for several days ere the outfit for the boats would be ready.
We were, however, very courteously entertained by the Hudson's Bay officials, who showed us
no little kindness.

This Lower Fort Garry, or "the Stone Fort," as it is called in the country, is an extensive
affair, having a massive stone wall all around it, with the Company's buildings in the centre.
It was built in stormy times, when rival trading parties existed, and hostile bands were ever
on the war path.  It is capable of resisting almost any force that could be brought against
it, unaided by artillery.  We were a little amused and very much pleased with the old-time
and almost courtly etiquette which abounded at this and the other establishments of this flourishing
Company.  In those days the law of precedents was in full force.  When the bell rang, no clerk
of fourteen years' standing would think of entering before one who had been fifteen years in
the service, or of sitting above him at the table.  Such a thing would have brought down upon
him the severe reproof of the senior officer in charge.  Irksome and even frivolous as some
of these laws seemed, doubtless they served a good purpose, and prevented many misunderstandings
which might have occurred.

Another singular custom, which we did not like, was the fact that there were two dining-rooms
in these establishments, one for the ladies, and the other for the gentlemen of the service.
It appeared to us very odd to see the gentlemen with the greatest politeness escort the ladies
into the hall which ran between the two dining-rooms, and then gravely turn to the left, while
the ladies all filed off into the room on the right. As the arrangement was so contrary to
all our ideas and education on the subject, we presumed to question it; but the only satisfaction
we could get in reference to it was, that it was one of their old customs, and had worked well.
One old crusty bachelor official said, "We do not want the women around us when we are discussing
our business matters, which we wish to keep to ourselves.  If they were present, all our schemes
and plans would soon be known to all, and our trade might be much injured."

Throughout this vast country, until very lately, the adventurous traveller, whose courage or
curiosity was sufficient to enable him to brave the hardships or run the risks of exploring
these enormous territories, was entirely dependent upon the goodwill and hospitality of the
officials of the Hudson's Bay Company.  They were uniformly treated with courtesy and hospitably
entertained.

Very isolated are some of these inland posts, and quite expatriated are the inmates for years
at a time.  These lonely establishments are to be found scattered all over the upper half of
this great American Continent.  They have each a population of from five to sixty human beings.
These are, if possible, placed in favourable localities for fish or game, but often from one
to five hundred miles apart.  The only object of their erection and occupancy is to exchange
the products of civilisation for the rich and valuable furs which are to be obtained here as
nowhere else in the world.  In many instances the inmates hear from the outside world but twice,
and at times but once, in twelve months.  Then the arrival of the packet is the great event
of the year.

We spent a very pleasant Sabbath at Lower Fort Garry, and I preached in the largest dining-room
to a very attentive congregation, composed of the officials and servants of the Company, with
several visitors, and also some Half-breeds and Indians who happened to be at the fort at that
time.

The next day two boats were ready, and we embarked on our adventurous journey for our far-off,
isolated home beyond the northern end of Lake Winnipeg.  The trip down Red River was very pleasant.
We passed through the flourishing Indian Settlement, where the Church of England has a successful
Mission among the Indians.  We admired their substantial church and comfortable homes, and
saw in them, and in the farms, tangible evidence of the power of Christian Missions to elevate
and bless those who come under their ennobling influences.  The cosy residence of the Venerable
Archdeacon Cowley was pointed out to us, beautifully embowered among the trees.  He was a man
beloved of all; a life-long friend of the Indians, and one who was as an angel of mercy to
us in after years when our Nellie died, while Mrs Young was making an adventurous journey in
an open boat on the stormy, treacherous Lake Winnipeg.

This sad event occurred when, after five years' residence among the Crees at Norway House,
we had instructions from our missionary authorities to go and open up a new Indian Mission
among the then pagan Salteaux.  I had orders to remain at Norway House until my successor arrived;
and as but one opportunity was offered for Mrs Young and the children to travel in those days
of limited opportunities, they started on several weeks ahead in an open skiff manned by a
few Indians, leaving me to follow in a birch canoe.  So terrible was the heat that hot July,
in that open boat with no deck or awning, that the beautiful child sickened and died of brain-fever.
Mrs Young found herself with her dying child on the banks of Red River, all alone among her
sorrowing Indian boatmen, "a stranger in a strange land;" no home to which to go; no friends
to sympathise with her.  Fortunately for her, the Hudson's Bay officials at Lower Fort Garry
were made aware of her sorrows, and received her into one of their homes ere the child died.
The Reverend Mr Cowley also came and prayed for her, and sympathised with her on the loss of
her beautiful child.

As I was far away when Nellie died, Mrs Young knew not what to do with our precious dead. 
A temporary grave was made, and in it the body was laid until I could be communicated with,
and arrangements could be made for its permanent interment.  I wrote at once by an Indian to
the Venerable Archdeacon Cowley, asking permission to bury our dead in his graveyard; and there
came promptly back, by the canoe, a very brotherly, sympathetic letter, ending up with, "Our
graveyards are open before you; `in the choicest of our sepulchres bury thy dead.'"  A few
weeks after, when I had handed over my Mission to Brother Ruttan, I hurried on to the settlement,
and with a few sympathising friends, mostly Indians, we took up the little body from its temporary
resting-place, and buried it in the St. Peter's Church graveyard, the dear archdeacon himself
being present, and reading the beautiful Burial Service of his Church.  That land to us has
been doubly precious since it has become the repository of our darling child.

As we floated down the current, or were propelled along by the oars of our Indian boatmen,
on that first journey, little did we imagine that this sad episode in our lives would happen
in that very spot a few years after.  When we were near the end of the Indian Settlement, as
it is called, we saw several Indians on the bank, holding on to a couple of oxen.  Our boats
were immediately turned in to the shore near them, and, to our great astonishment, we found
out that each boat was to have an addition to its passenger list in the shape of one of these
big fellows. The getting of these animals shipped was no easy matter, as there was no wharf
or gangway; but after a good deal of pulling and pushing, and lifting up of one leg, and then
another, the patient brutes were embarked on the frail crafts, to be our companions during
the voyage to Norway House.  The position assigned to the one in our boat was just in front
of us, "broadside on," as the sailors would say; his head often hanging over one side of the
boat, and his tail over the other side. The only partition there was between him and us was
a single board a few inches wide.  Such close proximity to this animal for fourteen days was
not very agreeable; but as it could not be helped it had to be endured.

At times, during the first few days, the ox made some desperate efforts to break loose; and
it seemed as though he would either smash our boat to pieces or upset it; but, finding his
efforts unsuccessful, he gracefully accepted the situation, and behaved himself admirably.
When storms arose he quietly lay down, and served as so much ballast to steady the boat.  "Tom,"
the guide, kept him well supplied with food from the rich nutritious grasses which grew abundantly
along the shore at our different camping-places.

Winnipeg is considered one of the stormiest lakes on the American Continent.  It is about three
hundred miles long, and varies from eighty to but a few miles in width.  It is indented with
innumerable bays, and is dangerous to navigators, on account of its many shoals and hidden
rocks.  Winnipeg, or Wenipak, as some Indians pronounce it, means "the sea," and Keche Wenipak
means "the ocean."

The trip across Lake Winnipeg was one that at the present day would be considered a great hardship,
taking into consideration the style of the boat and the way we travelled.

Our method of procedure was about as follows.  We were aroused very early in the morning by
the guide's cry of Koos koos kwa!  "Wake up!" Everybody was expected to obey promptly, as there
was always a good deal of rivalry between the boats as to which could get away first.  A hasty
breakfast was prepared on the rocks; after which a morning hymn was sung, and an earnest prayer
was offered up to Him Who holds the winds and waves under His control.

Then "All aboard" was the cry, and soon tents, kettles, axes, and all the other things were
hurriedly gathered up and placed on board.  If the wind was favourable, the mast was put up,
the sail hoisted, and we were soon rapidly speeding on our way.  If the oars had to be used,
there was not half the alacrity displayed by the poor fellows, who well knew how wearisome
their task would be.  When we had a favourable wind, we generally dined as well as we could
in the boat, to save time, as the rowers well knew how much more pleasant it was to glide along
with the favouring breeze than to be obliged to work at the heavy oars.  Often during whole
nights we sailed on, although at considerable risks in that treacherous lake, rather than lose
the fair wind.  For, if there ever was, in this world of uncertainties, one route of more uncertainty
than another, the palm must be conceded to the voyages on Lake Winnipeg in those Hudson's Bay
Company's inland boats.  You might make the trip in four days, or even a few hours less; and
you might be thirty days, and a few hours over.

Once, in after years, I was detained for six days on a little rocky islet by a fierce northern
gale, which at times blew with such force that we could not keep up a tent or even stand upright
against its fury; and as there was not sufficient soil in which to drive a tent pin, we, with
all our bedding and supplies, were drenched by the pitiless sleet and rain.  Often in these
later years, when I have heard people, sitting in the comfortable waiting-room of a railway
station, bitterly complaining because a train was an hour or two late, memory has carried me
back to some of those long detentions amidst the most disagreeable surroundings, and I have
wondered at the trifles which can upset the equanimity of some or cause them to show such fretfulness.

When the weather was fine, the camping on the shore was very enjoyable. Our tent was quickly
erected by willing hands; the camp fire was kindled, and glowed with increasing brightness
as the shadows of night fell around us.  The evening meal was soon prepared, and an hour or
two would sometimes be spent in pleasant converse with our dusky friends, who were most delightful
travelling companions.  Our days always began and closed with a religious service.  All of
our Indian companions in the two boats on this first trip were Christians, in the best and
truest sense of the word.  They were the converts of the earlier missionaries of our Church.
At first they were a little reserved, and acted as though they imagined we expected them to
be very sedate and dignified. For, like some white folks, they imagined the "black-coat" and
his wife did not believe in laughter or pleasantry.  However, we soon disabused their minds
of those erroneous ideas, and before we reached Norway House we were on the best of terms with
each other.  We knew but little of their language, but some of them had a good idea of English,
and, using these as our interpreters, we got along finely.

They were well furnished with Testaments and hymn-books, printed in the beautiful syllabic
characters; and they used them well.  This worshipping with a people who used to us an unknown
tongue was at first rather novel; but it attracted and charmed us at once.  We were forcibly
struck with the reverential manner in which they conducted their devotions.  No levity or indifference
marred the solemnity of their religious services.  They listened very attentively while one
of their number read to them from the sacred Word, and gave the closest attention to what I
had to say, through an interpreter.

Very sweetly and soothingly sounded the hymns of praise and adoration that welled up from their
musical voices; and though we understood them not, yet in their earnest prayers there seemed
to be so much that was real and genuine, as in pathetic tones they offered up their petitions,
that we felt it to be a great privilege and a source of much blessing, when with them we bowed
at the mercy-seat of our great loving Father, to Whom all languages of earth are known, and
before Whom all hearts are open.

Very helpful at times to devout worship were our surroundings.  As in the ancient days, when
the vast multitudes gathered around Him on the seaside and were comforted and cheered by His
presence, so we felt on these quiet shores of the lake that we were worshipping Him Who is
always the same.  At times delightful and suggestive were our environments.

