GATHERING JEWELS.

JAMES KNOWLES.

GATHERING JEWELS;

Or,

The Secret of a Beautiful Life.

In Memoriam of Mr. & Mrs. James Knowles.

Selected from Their Diaries.

"They shall be Mine in that day when I come to make up My Jewels."

Edited by Rev. Duncan Mcneill Young.

New York: William Knowles, 104 East Thirteenth Street. 1887.

Copyright, 1887. By Wm. Knowles

PREFACE.

The present volume is a purely pastoral attempt, emanating from a fraternal affection for two
of God's honored saints, and an increasingly growing desire for the glory of God in the salvation
of souls.

While a proper and very natural sentiment demands that the memoirs of the beloved ones should
not appear until some time has passed away, it is also proper that their publication should
not be put off till all trace of the facts recorded and the impressions there from made have
been forgotten. During the preparation of these memoirs nothing has been more clearly manifest
to me than the steady recurrence, throughout their lives, of a deep and earnest unison of feeling
between man and wife, in such unfailing sweetness as to find its way at once to our hearts
and clothe it with the freshness of a living, loving presence.

The subjects whose earthly career we are about to delineate, were whole-souled enough to elicit
the respect of all who knew them, hence they made lasting friends, whilst to their own immediate
family their loss is irreparable, and it is hard to realize that they are no more; for who
is there among us who does not know what it is to be united by a fond and passionate affection
to those who are no longer with us--ever to think of the beloved ones, and to feel ourselves
constantly under the influence of the vanished presence?

It cannot be claimed for James Knowles that he was a great man, a learned scholar, or one possessed
of extraordinary intellectual culture above his fellows, but, as Hamerton says: "It is not
erudition that makes the intellectual man, but a sort of virtue which delights in vigorous
and beautiful thinking, just as moral virtue delights in vigorous and beautiful conduct." So
it was with our brother, he made the most of the talents God endowed him with, and whatever
he undertook to do, he did with might and main; hence his success in any undertaking, or any
cause he espoused, for he seemed to realize that success in a good cause is undoubtedly better
than failure, while the result in any case is not to be regarded so much as the aim and effort,
and the striving with which worthy objects are pursued. Although the Elder may have been less
than a Huss, a Calvin, or a Knox in public fame, he had emulated them in self-contemplation
and humility.

As for Matilda Knowles, our missionary, she was more than a Dorcas, and equally vigorous in
spirit with a Lydia; hence we speak of her in the sphere in which it pleased God for her to
labor. Those who will carefully read the chapters devoted to her work, will at once perceive
that little is left for me to speak of in words of praise.

Let our Bible women study the pages of this book containing the record of her toil in the vineyard,
and note the fruits thereof for over a quarter of a century; for no work purely imaginative
in its character ever outrivalled it in intensity of interest, especially to those who have
the salvation of the unregenerate at heart. To our children and co-workers and successors we
earnestly commend it; praying that the Divine blessing may accompany its circulation and perusal
in our own and other lands until He shall come whose right it is to reign.

With these few prefatory remarks, with no claim to literary excellence, and a prayer for the
blessing of the Holy Spirit, I commit this imperfect production to the perusal of all co-workers
in the vineyard of the Lord.

I also sincerely trust that it will be acceptable to every evangelical denomination, where
the love of the Great Creator, and the advancing perfection of human life predominates over
all forms of sin and superstition.

DUNCAN M. YOUNG.

NEW YORK, August 18, 1887.

CONTENTS.

JAMES KNOWLES.

                                                                PAGE.
CHAPTER I.

Brief Sketch of the Life of James Knowles,                         15

CHAPTER II.

Correspondence and Covenants,                                      24

CHAPTER III.

Scripture Texts,                                                   29

CHAPTER IV.

The Last Hours,                                                    38

CHAPTER V.

The Dead Who Die in the Lord,                                      46

CHAPTER VI.

A Brief Historical Sketch of the Allen Street Presbyterian Church, 70

MATILDA KNOWLES.

                                                                PAGE.
CHAPTER VII.

Brief Memoir of Matilda Knowles,                                   85

CHAPTER VIII.

The Value of Prayer,                                               89

CHAPTER IX.

The Story of William the Consumptive,                              94

CHAPTER X.

Sowing and Reaping,                                               105

CHAPTER XI.

Daily Missionary Work,                                            113

CHAPTER XII.

Destitution and Reformation,                                      120

CHAPTER XIII.

Her Faithfulness in Little Things,                                125

CHAPTER XIV.

The Power of Influence,                                           132

CHAPTER XV.

Miscellaneous Extracts from Her Diary,                            136

CHAPTER XVI.

Struggles and Triumphs,                                           149

CHAPTER XVII.

Leading Souls To Christ,                                          156

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Dying Mother and the Intemperate Husband,                     159

CHAPTER XIX.

Help and Loving Kindness,                                         163

CHAPTER XX.

Reaching the Heart,                                               166

CHAPTER XXI.

Winter Life and Scenes,                                           171

CHAPTER XXII.

Circulating the Scriptures,                                       175

CHAPTER XXIII.

The Ninety and Nine,                                              178

CHAPTER XXIV.

Answered Prayer,                                                  185

CHAPTER XXV.

The Sin of Idolatry,                                              192

CHAPTER XXVI.

Peace Through Believing,                                          197

CHAPTER XXVII.

Drawn by the Cords of Love,                                       202

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Love for the Hebrews,                                             206

CHAPTER XXIX.

Thankfulness to God,                                              211

CHAPTER XXX.

Lost, but Found,                                                  214

CHAPTER XXXI.

Sea-Side Excursions for Mothers and Children,                     219

CHAPTER XXXII.

The Intemperate Wife,                                             223

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Her Love of Children and of Praying,                              226

CHAPTER XXXIV.

The Conversion of Children,                                       231

CHAPTER XXXV.

Asleep in Jesus,                                                  235

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Testimonials and Letters of Condolence,                           264

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Conclusion,                                                       278

Dedication.

To the Pastors, Elders, Sabbath-School Workers, and the New York Female Bible Readers' Society,
who were Intimately Associated with the deceased in Winning Souls to Christ,

These Memoirs are Affectionately Dedicated

BY THE EDITOR.

In Memoriam.

DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF MR. AND MRS. JAMES KNOWLES.

They died within a week of each other, after a married life of forty-seven years, and each
at the age of seventy-five.

Ever faithful to the cause of their Master, they died as they had lived--in triumphant faith.

    Hand in hand, together they trod
      Through years twoscore and seven;
    Their only staff was the Word of God,
      Their path was the way to heaven.

    Hand in hand, e'er the burning sun
      Had drunk up the morning dew,
    They started their earthly journey to run,
      While the heavens were fair and blue.

    But life's path lies not through a grassy dell,
      In the cool of the morning's shade;
    There are scorching sands, and torrents that swell,
      As well as the flowery glade.

    There are crags to climb in the mountains fast,
      There are gorges, and canyons deep,
    And the blinding snow, and the wintry blast
      Must over the landscape sweep.

    And the shoulders must bear a wearisome load,
      Whether o'er mountain or moor,
    Or through forest, or dusty highway, lay the road,
      Or the feet be bleeding and sore.

    But hand in hand we see them still,
      When the sun had drunk up the dew;
    They were toiling steadfastly up the hill,
      Ever keeping the end in view.

    They scaled the crags of the mountain steep
      When the noontide sun was high;
    And they forded the flood of the canyon deep,
      When the sun lay low in the sky.

    But their tired feet are no longer as light
      As in days of the long, long past,
    And their youthful tresses have turned to white
      With the snows, and the wintry blast.

    Now hand in hand, they stand by the shore
      Of a river dark and wide;
    And the songs which the seraphs are wafting o'er,
      They catch from the other side.

    And their faces beam with unearthly light,
      In the rays of the setting sun,
    As their eyes peer far beyond mortals' sight,
      And they learn that life's journey is done.

    Hand in hand by the river, they stray
      Where the dark waves wash the shore;
    And they hear the splash, and the feathery spray,
      As the ferryman dips his oar.

    Now the father waves a loving adieu,
      As he looses his claspèd hand;
    And the ferryman plies his oar anew,
      Till he reaches the golden strand.

    By the silent waves of the river of death,
      The mother is waiting still,
    With eager eye and with bated breath,
      The call of the Master's will.

    Now her face is illumed by a heavenly light
      As sweet as angels' breath;
    For she knows that the unclasped hands will unite,
      Across the river of death.

GEORGE F. SARGENT.

NEW YORK, February 17, 1887.

GATHERING JEWELS

CHAPTER I.

BRIEF SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF JAMES KNOWLES.

    "God bless thee, bairn--my bonnie bairn,"
      She said, an' straikit doon his hair;
    "O may the widow's God be thine,
      And mak' thee His peculiar care!"

James Knowles was born at sea, December 5, 1811, his father, the previous day, having been
swept overboard and lost. Unfortunately no record of the misfortune was kept to be available
for the present purpose; hence we are unable to give either the name of the ship, or the latitude
and longitude it was in when his birth occurred. Picture to yourself the deck of a vessel in
mid-ocean, where the widow of a day becomes a mother the next, the subject of this sketch being
the infant presented to her bosom, and you have a glimpse of the situation--though it be unconnected
with either a cottage, a mansion, or a palace.

The mother returned with the infant to the home of her father at Ballymena, Ireland, where
her relatives then undertook the care of the fatherless babe, which eventually grew into healthy
boyhood of the most affectionate character.

As a youth he made rapid progress in the elementary branches of education, often surprising
his teachers with the patience and care he exhibited in keeping in advance of his fellow-students--for
he was almost always at the head of his class. He was noted for his quiet, unobtrusive disposition,
underlying which was an internal force, which made him prompt in action, and to the point in
word, when the display of such characteristics was sometimes necessary to establish his individual
superiority with more than usual power among his fellow-schoolmates.

In 1826 he commenced his apprenticeship as a compositor, under the care of Mr. Dugan, in the
city of Belfast, Ireland, where he continued until the expiration of the time of his indentures.

In 1832, after an ocean passage of sixty days in a sailing vessel, he arrived in Philadelphia, Pa.

During this long and tedious voyage across the Atlantic, he and the captain of the ship became
very intimately attached to each other, and he was frequently invited to dine with the officers.

After a brief stay in Philadelphia, he came to New York City, where he found employment. Immediately
after his arrival in this city, he became a member of the Rev. Dr. McLeod's Reformed Presbyterian
Church, in Chambers Street, and continued with this church until after they had removed to
Prince Street.

In 1835 he became an employé in the office of the Journal of Commerce. He frequently recalled
that fearful night during the great fire in New York, when the greater part of the lower portion
of the city was totally destroyed, and some of the large buildings had to be blown up with
gunpowder, to stop the ravages of the flames; he took an active part in carrying the printing
"forms" to a place of safety.

In 1839 he was married to Miss Matilda Darroch, who was a member of Dr. McCarthy's Canal Street
Presbyterian Church and a teacher in the Sabbath-school.

As a Christian man, at this time, we find him teaching a large Bible-class for young men in
the above church, and to the end of his earthly career he was constantly engaged in the Sabbath-school.

In 1849 the Prince Street Church property was sold to erect a new building on Twelfth Street,
where he continued to attend the services until the year 1850, when some of the members, being
anxious to enlarge their borders, and continue the work in the lower part of the city, formed
the Second Reformed Presbyterian Church. They organized, and called the Rev. Spencer L. Finney
to the pastorate, who commenced to hold services in the hall of the Apprentices' Library, No.
472 Broadway, where they worshipped for one year, and then secured more ample accommodations
in which to worship God, in the rooms of the Medical College, Crosby Street, near Spring.

In 1850 he was carefully examined, and when found qualified for the sacred office, was duly
ordained a ruling elder in the Second Reformed Presbyterian Church.

During the year 1854 the Church purchased the building in Mulberry Street, near Grand, belonging
to the Lutheran body.

At this time he continued to reside on the west side of the city, and attended two sessions
of the Sabbath-school morning and afternoon, with two preaching services, and one prayer-meeting
in the evening.

As soon as the congregation were permanently settled in a church building, he removed from
the west to the east side of the city, to the Tenth Ward, in order to be in close proximity
to his church work.

He continued to worship with the Second Reformed Presbyterian Church, under the pastorate of
the Rev. S. L. Finney, who, in 1863, was called to Princeton, N.J.

The Rev. Geo. S. Chambers was subsequently called to take the pastoral charge. Eventually,
it was found essential to change their ecclesiastical relations from the Reformed Presbyterian
Church to the Old School, from which time (the two religious bodies having become united),
the congregation became known as the Ebenezer Presbyterian Church.

In due course it united with the Fortieth Street Presbyterian Church, afterward called the
Murray Hill Presbyterian Church, because at the time, though in possession of a church building,
they had no pastor. Mr. Knowles continued to attend regularly until the imperative demands
of age and time called for change, when he became united with the Allen Street Church.

In 1870 he accepted an invitation from his uncle to visit his native place; and he frequently
afterward remarked that the scenes of his boyhood's days had materially changed as much as
he had; realizing that change, progress, and decay were written upon all things terrestrial.

During this visit to Europe, he greatly enjoyed rambles over the country roads, admiring the
beauties of the surrounding scenery.

On one occasion, while passing the school-house of his boyhood days, he was found by an old
friend, wistfully gazing at the building, who said, "What are you looking at?" And upon entering
into conversation, he discovered that he and the gentleman who addressed him had been former
schoolmates together.

We find recorded in his diary the following:

    "I now commence filling this book, which I brought with me from New
    York, in the steamship Italia. I am now in Fenagh, Ireland."

From the record of this journey, we notice that he was very careful in watching the signs of
the times, and the changing moods of the weather. For example, he writes thus:

    Sabbath, January 4, 1874.--When I rose this morning, I found the
    ground covered with snow; the first fall of the season, and like the
    little captive Syrian maid, though far from home and friends and
    among comparative strangers, I do not forget God or the sanctuary.

    Monday, January 5th.--A fine day, but cold, and snow on the
    ground.

    Tuesday, January 6th.--A fine day, and a fine thaw, which resulted
    in the removal of the snow which had fallen a short time previously.

    Wednesday, January 7th (morning).--A fine day. Afternoon, clouds
    gathering; lightning and thunder; came on to rain.

    Thursday, January 8th.--A fine day of the season.

    Friday, January 9th.--A fair day.

    Saturday, January 10th.--A fine day. I went into Ballymena myself,
    and called at several places, and upon Mr. White, the printer, who
    did not know me, or remember anything about me. I called also on
    Mrs. McQuitty, who treated me in a very kindly manner. I also called
    on Mr. Kilpatrick's, but I only saw two of his daughters, and a
    little child. On the same day I bought McComb's almanac in
    Ballymena; paid two pence for it. I also bought the Ballymena
    Observer from Mr. White. I walked into Ballymena, and also returned
    in like manner, only that in returning I took a circuitous route,
    that I might see a portion of the country that I had not seen for a
    length of time before my departure for America, in June, 1832.

    Sabbath, January 11th (forenoon).--I heard Mr. Moody lecture from
    the 16th chapter of John, and 16th verse.

    Monday, January 12th.--A cold day. I received a letter from my
    son, William Knowles, in New York City.

    Wednesday, May 19, 1875.--A fine day. I went to Belfast in an
    excursion train, and called at several places, and in the evening
    took a cabin passage for Glasgow, Scotland. I went from Greenock to
    Glasgow in the train; I arrived on Thursday morning in Glasgow,
    about six o'clock, and went to my brother-in-law's, Mr. William
    Darroch. The day is cold, blowing, and showers.

    Glasgow, Sabbath morning, May 23d.--Heard the Rev. Mr. Douglass
    lecture from the 6th chapter of Matthew.

    Afternoon.--A lovely day. Heard another minister preach in the
    same church, from the 3d chapter of Philippians, and 8th verse: "Yea
    doubtless, and I count all things but lost for the excellency of the
    knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord."

    Tuesday, May 25th.--I went with Mrs. Darroch and her daughter,
    Maggie, to Edinburgh, and after visiting the castle, and a number of
    other places of interest, returned to Glasgow the same day.

    Saturday, May 29th.--Returned to Belfast.

    Sabbath morning, May 30th.--A beautiful day. Heard Dr. Houston,
    pastor of my boyhood, lecture from the 13th chapter of John; then
    preach from 1st Thessalonians, 3d chapter, 12th and 13th verses.
    Lecture in the evening, from the 6th and 7th chapter of Revelations.
    I took dinner and tea with Rev. Dr. Houston and his family. A fine
    day throughout.

Before returning to this country he expressed his love and unfeigned gratitude to the memory
of his sainted mother (who early taught him the ways of God) by erecting a substantial monument
over her grave to perpetuate her revered name.

After spending two years in Europe he returned to New York, and was elected an Elder in the
Allen Street Church.

On Easter Sabbath, April, 1877, he was regularly installed into office as a Ruling Elder.

    So I ask Thee, Lord, to give me grace
      My little place to fill,
    That I may ever walk with Thee,
      And ever do Thy will,
    And in each duty, great or small;
      I may be faithful still.

Of course, the life-work of such a man as we are contemplating was full of little peculiarities
(eccentricities, society calls them), which even his most intimate relations with the world
does not divulge to the inquisitive of his day. It is only after such men pass away and their
relatives are permitted to look into the "private jewel-box," as it were, that we come across
the brilliant diamonds of thought, the glowing rubies of expressed gratitude and, may be, some
softly-tinted pearls of faith, hope and charity, all lying together in the receptacle which,
even if humble in workmanship, is full of priceless treasures.

The Bible of our friend was very often used for over forty years, until it showed that it was
never allowed to preserve a dainty appearance through a want of use, nor the dust to accumulate
on cover or edge by reason of its owner's non-usage of the sacred pages. It was a useful Reference
Bible, and, no doubt, of immense value and comfort to him, for the pages are pretty well worn,
even where no marks are made indicative of favorite passages, etc.

Next among the eccentricities of our friend was the disposition to keep a quiet order of memorandums,
and a diary extending back for many years, from which had we the space to spare in this book
we would place before the world some of the gems found in his jewel-box, as indicative of the
man's industry and the Christian's freedom from ostentatious display.

    Help each step upon the way,
    Strength sufficient for the day,
    All things easy in Thy might,
    Work for thee a felt delight.

    Courage, patience, grace supplied,
    All things needful--at Thy side;
    Such my happy lot will be,
    Working, dearest Lord, with thee.

Agreeably with the spirit of our labor, we will take an impartial view of our friend as a Christian,
in the eyes of the world, and among laymen generally. That he was no drone in the Christian
hive, all the world could see; that he was active and unusually laborious for Christ and the
Church, no one who follows the spirit of the sermon eulogizing his memory, or who reads this
work, can deny; as an Elder of the Church, he was faithful in anything he was requested to
perform, especially in public prayer-meeting, individual devotional study, and self-contemplation.

His sympathy for suffering humanity in any form, was, indeed, very large, in fact so easily
moved, that he would habitually visit the sick members of the Church after being relieved from
such duties. To him all men and women were brothers and sisters, the distance of relationship
(if very strained and far between in some instances), he would claim, was closer, more congenial,
and intimate in others.

As a builder among the builders, a workman among the workmen of the temple; or as a brother
among brethren of the same house, he was meekness itself; his spirit of patience never failing
him in instances where "to wait was gain," either for God, the Church, or himself.

His acquiescence in the decision of his brethren, when they at last decided upon changing the
location of their place of worship, was secured at the price of sacrificing his own preferences
in the matter--and all for the sake of peace, harmony, and continued brotherly love. In this
he was a "light shining upon a hill-top."

The interest he always displayed and the anxiety he expressed for the continued welfare of
the Church, manifesting the same in the labors performed or duties undertaken, was always profound,
as it embraced among other items of care the temporal welfare and spiritual prosperity of the
various clergymen with whom he had labored.

In his demeanor he was never in a hurry to do to-day what he should have done yesterday, because
having no faith in procrastination, he left nothing undone to-day to be performed on the morrow,
if by any means it could be accomplished, or the duty performed at once. In going to the House
of God, he left all worry about the world on the outside of it, the moment he entered the porch;
the drudgery of every-day life did not go with him into the pew; the prejudices of an ambiguous
man troubled him not, while the disposition to "take things easy," while others bore the burden,
was never fostered by him.

But he did carry something into the house every time he entered! He took in with him his Bible,
his sweetest temper, his most charitable disposition, a vigorous condition of soul-life, a
sensible care of the temporal body, and also the continued desire to be always walking with
God, as well as the desire for larger acquisitions of intuitive spiritual knowledge--very proper
things to take into the House of God with you at all times; and our departed brother had enough
of these, and to spare.

But to cease from reflection, we close this chapter with one of our friend's favorite little
gems of poetry, believing that when you have read it, you will agree with us that James Knowles
was a man to be beloved, indeed; for through these few lines his spirit breathes back again
to us from the great beyond:

    If you cannot be a leader
      In the crowd that pours along,
    Raise the fallen, lying prostrate
      Under foot, amid the throng.

    Though your work be never mentioned,
      Though your name may not appear,
    Speak one word for "Jesus only,"
      And the Lord, at least, will hear.

CHAPTER II.

CORRESPONDENCE AND COVENANTS.

The following letter was written to his mother while an apprentice as a printer in the city
of Belfast, Ireland:

    BELFAST, January 15, 1829.

