"Is it because you are interested in some other woman, that you speak so positively of the
hopelessness of my poor Salome's case?"

"No, my sister; no woman has any claim or hold on my heart stronger than that of mere friendship.
I have never loved any one as I must love the woman I make my wife; and since I have seen and
merely admired so many who were attractive, lovely, and lovable, I often think that I shall
probably never marry. As yet, I have not met the perfect character whom I could ask to bear
my name; still, I may be so fortunate as either to find my ideal, or imagine that I do; or
else become so earnestly attached to some beautiful woman, that, for her sake, I will willingly
lower my lofty standard. These are the merest possible contingencies, and I have little inclination
to discuss them; but I wish at all times to be entirely frank with you. Salome would never
suit me as a life-long companion. She meets none of the requirements of my intellectual nature,
and her perverse disposition, and what might almost be termed diablerie, repel instead of attracting
me. I pity the child, and can sympathize cordially with her efforts to redeem herself from
the luckless associations of earlier years that wofully distorted her character; and I can
truly say that I am interested in her welfare and improvement, and have a faint brotherly affection
for her; but I thoroughly comprehend my own feelings when I assure you, Janet, that were Salome
and I left alone in the world I could never for a moment entertain the idea of calling such
a wayward child my wife. Are you satisfied?"

"Convinced, at least, that you are not deceiving me. But, Ulpian, the girl is growing very
beautiful--don't you think so?--or, is it my love that makes me see her through flattering lenses?"

"Her lips are too thin, and her eyes too keen and restless for perfect beauty, which claims
repose as one of its essential elements; but, notwithstanding these flaws, she has undoubtedly
one of the handsomest faces I have ever seen, and certainly a graceful, fine figure."

"And you are such an admirer of beauty," said Miss Jane, slipping her fingers caressingly into
her brother's hand.

"Yes; I shall not deny that I yield to no one in appreciation of lovely faces; but, if I am
aware that, like some rich crimson June rose whose calyx cradles a worm, the heart beneath
the perfect form is gnawed by some evil tendency, or shelters vindictive passion and sinful
impulses, I should certainly not select it in making up the precious bouquet that is to shed
perfume and beauty in my home, and call my thoughts from the din and strife of the outer world
to holiness and peace."

"You have no mercy on the child."

"I ought to have no mercy on glaring faults which she should ere this have corrected."

"But she is so young--only seventeen! Think of it!"

Dr. Grey frowned, and partially withdrew his hand from his sister's clasp.

"Janet, you grieve me. Surely you are not pleading with me in behalf of Salome?"

Tears trickled over Miss Jane's sallow cheeks and dripped on the doctor's hand, as she replied,--

"Bear with me, Ulpian. The girl is very dear to me; and, loving you as she unquestionably does,
I know that you could make her a noble, admirable woman,--for she has some fine traits, and
your influence would perfect her character. Believe me, my dear boy, you, and you only, can
remould her heart."

"Possibly,--if I loved her; for then I would be patient and forbearing towards her faults.
But I cannot even respect that handsome, fiery, impulsive, unreasonable child, much less love
her; and, if I ever marry, my wife must be worthy to remould my own defective life and erring
nature. I am surprised, my dear sister, that you, whose sincere affection I can not doubt,
should be willing to see me link my life with that of one so much younger, and, I grieve to
say it, so far inferior in all respects. What congenial companionship could I promise myself?
What confidence could I repose--what esteem could I entertain--for a silly girl, who, without
warrant and utterly unsought, bestows her love (if, indeed, what you say be true) upon a man
who never even dreamed of such folly, and is old enough to be her father?"

"I can not comprehend the logic that condemns Salome, and justifies your own mother; for, if
there be any difference in their lines of conduct, I am too stupid to see it."

Miss Jane lifted her head from her brother's shoulder, resolutely dried her eyes, and settled
her cap.

"My mother's tombstone should shelter her from all animadversion, especially from the lips
that owe their existence to her. Do not, my sister, disturb the mouldering ashes of the long-buried
past. The unfortunate fact you have mentioned, and which I should gladly doubt if you would
only permit me to do so, renders it necessary for me to be perfectly candid with you, and you
will, I trust, pardon what I feel compelled to say to you. I have remarked that you watch me
quite closely whenever I am engaged in conversation with my ward or her governess, and yesterday,
when Muriel came, stood by me, and leaned her arm on my shoulder, you frowned and looked harshly
at the child. Once for all, let me tell you that there is no more possibility of my loving
Muriel or Edith, than Salome. Of the three, I care most for Muriel, who looks upon me as her
second father, and to whom I am deeply attached. If I caress the poor, stricken child, and
allow her to approach me familiarly, you ought to understand your brother sufficiently well
not to ascribe his conduct to any feeling which he would blush to confess to his sister. The
day before Horace died, he said, 'Be a father to my daughter; take my place when I am gone.'
If I were at liberty to divulge some matters confided to me, I could easily assure you that
there is not a shadow of possibility that Muriel will ever grieve and mortify me as Salome
has done. Now look at me, dear Janet, and kiss me, and trust your brother; for he will never
deceive you, and can not endure a moment's estrangement from you."

Miss Jane put up her lips for the caress, and, after a short silence, Dr. Grey continued,--

"Tell me now what you think best under the circumstances, and I will endeavor to coöperate
with you. Does Salome know you are cognizant of her weakness--her misfortune--"

He stammered, and again his face flushed.

"Upon my word, Ulpian, you are positively blushing! Don't worry yourself, dear, over what can
not be helped, or at least is attributable to no fault of yours. No; you may be sure Salome
would be drawn, quartered, and broiled, before she would confess to me the feeling which she
does not suspect I have discovered. Poor thing! I can't avoid pitying her whenever you take
Muriel's hand or caress her in any way. This morning you smoothed the hair back from her forehead
while she was stooping over her drawing, and poor Salome's eyes flashed and looked like a leopard's.
She clenched her fingers as if she were strangling something, and an expression came over her
face that was dangerous, and made me shiver a little. Something must be done; but I am sure
I do not know what to advise."

"How futile and mocking are merely human schemes! My principal object in bringing Muriel and
Miss Dexter here, was to provide agreeable and improving companions for your pet and to afford
her the privilege of sharing the educational advantages which Muriel enjoyed. L'homme propose,
et Dieu dispose, if, indeed, an occurrence so earnestly to be deplored can be deemed providential.
What are her plans relative to Jessie?"

