Clara, as she came forth, felt herself quite unable to speak, or walk, or look after her usual
manner. She knew herself to be a victim to be so far a victim that she could no longer control
her own fate. To Captain Aylmer, at any rate, she had never succumbed. In all her dealings
with him she had fought upon an equal footing. She had never been compelled to own herself
mastered. But now she was being led out that she might confess her own submission, and acknowledge
that hitherto she had not known what was good for her. She knew that she would have to yield.
She must have known how happy she was to have an opportunity of yielding; but yet yet, had
there been any room for choice, she thought she would have refrained from walking with her
cousin that evening. She had wept that afternoon because she had thought that he would not
come again; and now that he had come at the first moment that was possible for him, she was
almost tempted to wish him once more away.

'I suppose you understand that when I came up this morning I came merely to talk about business,'
said Belton, as soon as they were off together.

'It was very good of you to come at all so soon after your arrival.'

'I told those people in London that I would have it all settled at once, and so I wanted to
have it off my mind.'

'I don't know what I ought to say to you. Of course I shall not want so much money as that.'

'We won't talk about the money any more today. I hate talking about money.'

'It is not the pleasantest subject in the world.'

'No,' said he; 'no indeed. I hate it particularly between friends. So you have come to grief
with your friends, the Aylmers?'

'I hope I haven't come to grief and the Aylmers, as a family, never were my friends. I'm obliged
to contradict you, point by point you see.'

'I don't like Captain Aylmer at all,' said Will, after a pause.

'So I saw, Will; and I dare say he was not very fond of you.' 'Fond of me! I didn't want him
to be fond of me. I don't suppose he ever thought much about me. I could not help thinking
of him.' She had nothing to say to this, and therefore walked on silently by his side. 'I suppose
he has not any idea of coming back here again?'

'What; to Belton? No, I do not think he will come to Belton any more.'

'Nor will you go to Aylmer Park?'

'No; certainly not. Of all the places on earth. Will, to which you could send me, Aylmer Park
is the one to which I should go most unwillingly.'

'I don't want to send you there.'

'You never could be made to understand what a woman she is; how disagreeable, how cruel, how
imperious, how insolent.'

'Was she so bad as all that?'

'Indeed she was, Will. I can't but tell the truth to you.'

'And he was nearly as bad as she.'

'No, Will; no; do not say that of him.'

'He was such a quarrelsome fellow. He flew at me just because I said we had good hunting down
in Norfolk.'

'We need not talk about all that, Will.'

'No of course not. It's all passed and gone, I suppose.'

'Yes it is all passed and gone. You did not know my Aunt Winterfield, or you would understand
my first reason for liking him.'

'No,' said Will; 'I never saw her.'

Then they walked on together for a while without speaking, and Clara was beginning to feel
some relief some relief at first; but as the relief came, there came back to her the dead,
dull, feeling of heaviness at her heart which had oppressed her after his visit in the morning.
She had been right, and Mrs Askerton had been wrong. He had returned to her simply as her cousin,
and now he was walking with her and talking to her in this strain, to teach her that it was
so. But of a sudden they came to a place where two paths diverged, and he turned upon her and
asked her quickly which path they should take. 'Look, Clara,' he said, 'will you go up there
with me?' It did not need that she should look, as she knew that the way indicated by him led
up among the rocks.

'I don't much care which way,' she said, faintly.

'Do you not? But I do. I care very much. Don't you remember where that path goes?' She had
no answer to give to this. She remembered well, and remembered how he had protested that he
would never go to the place again unless he could go there as her accepted lover. And she had
asked herself sundry questions as to that protestation. Could it be that for her sake he would
abstain from visiting the prettiest spot on his estate that he would continue to regard the
ground as hallowed because of his memories of her? 'Which way shall we go?' he asked.

'I suppose it does not much signify,' said she, trembling.

'But it does signify. It signifies very much to me. Will you go up to the rocks?'

'I am afraid we shall be late, if we stay out long.'

'What matters how late? Will you come?'

'I suppose so if you wish it, Will.'

She had anticipated that the high rock was to be the altar at which the victim was to be sacrificed;
but now he would not wait till he had taken her to the sacred spot. He had of course intended
that he would there renew his offer; but he had perceived that his offer had been renewed,
and had, in fact, been accepted, during this little parley as to the pathway. There was hardly
any necessity for further words. So he must have thought; for, as quick as lightning, he flung
his arms around her, and kissed her again, as he had kissed her on that other terrible occasion
that occasion on which he had felt that he might hardly hope for pardon.

'William, William,' she said; 'how can you serve me like that?' But he had a full understanding
as to his own privileges, and was well aware that he was in the right now, as he had been before
that he was trespassing egregiously. 'Why are you so rough with me?' she said.

'Clara, say that you love me.'

'I will say nothing to you because you are so rough.' They were now walking up slowly towards
the rocks.

And as he had his arm round her waist, he was contented for awhile to allow her to walk without
speaking. But when they were on the summit it was necessary for him that he should have a word
from her of positive assurance. 'Clara, say that you love me.'

'Have I not always loved you, Will, since almost the first moment that I saw you?'

'But that won't do. You know that is not fair. Come, Clara; I've had a deal of trouble and
grief too; haven't I? You should say a word to make up for it that is, if you can say it.'

'What can a word like that signify to you today? You have got everything.'

'Have I got you?' Still she paused. 'I will have an answer. Have I got you? Are you now my own?'

'I suppose so, Will. Don't now. I will not have it again. Does not that satisfy you?'

'Tell me that you love me.'

'You know that I love you.'

'Better than anybody in the world?'

'Yes better than anybody in the world.'

'And after all you will be my wife?'

'Oh, Will how you question one!'

'You shall say it, and then it will all be fair and honest.'

'Say what? I'm sure I thought I had said everything.'

'Say that you mean to be my wife.'

'I suppose so if you wish it.'

'Wish it!' said he, getting up from his seat, and throwing his hat into the bushes on one side;
'wish it! I don't think you have ever understood howl have wished it. Look here, Clara; I found
when I got down to Norfolk that I couldn't live without you. Upon my word it is true. I don't
suppose you'll believe me.'

'I didn't think it could be so bad with you as that.'

'No I don't suppose women ever do believe. And I wouldn't have believed it of myself. I hated
myself for it. By George, I did. That is when I began to think it was all up with me.'

'All up with you! Oh, Will!'

'I had quite made up my mind to go to New Zealand. I had, indeed. I couldn't have kept my hands
off that man if we had been living in the same country. I should have wrung his neck.'

'Will, how can you talk so wickedly?'

'There's no understanding it till you have felt it. But never mind. It's all right now; isn't
it, Clara?'

'If you think so.'

'Think so! Oh, Clara, I am such a happy fellow. Do give me a kiss. You have never given me
one kiss yet.'

'What nonsense! I didn't think you were such a baby.'

'By George, but you shall or you shall never get home to tea to-night. My own, own, own darling.
Upon my word, Clara, when I begin to think about it I shall be half mad.'

'I think you are quite that already.'

'No, I'm not but I shall be when I'm alone. What can I say to you, Clara, to make you understand
how much I love you? You remember the song, "For Bonnie Annie Laurie I'd lay me down and dee".
Of course it is all nonsense talking of dying for a woman. What a man has to do is to live
for her. But that is my feeling. I'm ready to give you my life. If there was anything to do
for you, I'd do it if I could, whatever it was. Do you understand me?'

'Dear Will! Dearest Will!'

'Am I dearest?'

'Are you not sure of it?'

'But I like you to tell me so. I like to feel that you are not ashamed to own it. You ought
to say it a few times to me, as I have said it so very often to you.'

'You'll hear enough of it before you've done with me.'

'I shall never have heard enough of it. Oh, Heavens, only think, when I was coming down in
the train last night I was in such a bad way.'

'And are you in a good way now?'

'Yes; in a very good way. I shall crow over Mary so when I get home.'

'And what has poor Mary done?'

'Never mind.'

'I dare say she knows what is good for you better than you know yourself. I suppose she has
told you that you might do a great deal better than trouble yourself with a wife?'

'Never mind what she has told me. It is settled now is it not?

'I hope so, Will.'

'But not quite settled as yet. When shall it be? That is the next question.'

But to that question Clara positively refused to make any reply that her lover would consider
to be satisfactory. He continued to press her till she was at last driven to remind him how
very short a time it was since her father had been among them; and then he was very angry with
himself, and declared himself to be a brute. 'Anything but that,' she said. 'You are the kindest
and the best of men but at the same time the most impatient.'

'That's what Mary says; but what's the good of waiting? She wanted me to wait today.'

'And as you would not, you have fallen into a trap out of which you can never escape. But pray
let us go. What will they think of us?'

'I shouldn't wonder if they didn't think something near the truth.'

'Whatever they think, we will go back. It is ever so much past nine.'

'Before you stir, Clara, tell me one thing. Are you really happy?'

'Very happy.'

'And are you glad that this has been done?'

'Very glad. Will that satisfy you?'

'And you do love me?'

'I do--I do--I do. Can I say more than that?

'More than anybody else in the world?'

'Better than all the world put together.'

'Then,' said he, holding her tight in his arms, 'show me that you love me.' And as he made
his request he was quick to explain to her what, according to his ideas, was the becoming mode
by which lovers might show their love. I wonder whether it ever occurred to Clara, as she thought
of it all before she went to bed that night, that Captain Aylmer and William Belton were very
different in their manners. And if so, I must wonder further whether she most approved the
manners of the patient man or the man who was impatient.

CHAPTER XXXII

CONCLUSION

