In Brand's Popular Antiquities, vol. iii. pp. 361, 362., there is an account given of the barnacle,
"a well-known kind of shell-fish, which is found sticking on the bottoms of ships," and with
regard to which the author observes, that "it seems hardly credible in this enlightened age,
that so gross an error in natural history should so long have prevailed," as that this shell-fish
should become changed into "a species of goose." The author then quotes Holinshed, Hall, Virgidemiarum,
Marston, and Gerard; but he does not make the slightest reference to Giraldus Cambrensis, who
is his Topographia Hiberniae first gave the account of the barnacle, and of that account the
writers referred to by Brand were manifestly but the copyists.

The passage referring to "the barnacle" will be found in the Topog. Hiber. lib. i. e. xi. I
annex a translation of it, as it may be considered interesting, when compared with the passages
quoted in Brand:--

     "There are," says Giraldus, "in this country (Ireland) a great
     number of birds called barnacles (Bernacre), and which nature
     produces in a manner that is contrary to the laws of nature. The
     birds are not unlike to ducks, but they are somewhat smaller in
     size. They make their first appearance as drops of gum upon the
     branches of firs that are immersed in running waters; and then they
     are next seen hanging like sea-weed from the wood, becoming encased
     in shells, which at last assume in their growth the outward form of
     birds, and so hang on by their beaks until they are completely
     covered with feathers within their shells, and when they arrive at
     maturity, they either drop into the waters, or take their flight at
     once into the air. Thus from the juice of this tree, combined with
     the water, are they generated and receive their nutriment until
     they are formed and fledged. I have many times with my own eyes
     seen several thousand of minute little bodies of these birds
     attached to pieces of wood immersed in the sea, encased in their
     shells, and already formed. These then are birds that never lay
     eggs, and are never hatched from eggs; and the consequence is, that
     in some parts of Ireland, and at those seasons of fasting when meat
     is forbidden, bishops and other religious persons feed on these
     birds, because they are not fish, nor to be regarded as flesh meat.
     And who can marvel that this should be so? When our first parent
     was made of mud, can we be surprised that a bird should be born of
     a tree?"

The notion of the barnacle being considered a fish is, I am aware, one that still prevails
on the western coast of Ireland; for I remember a friend of mine, who had spent a few weeks
in Kerry, telling me of the astonishment he experienced upon seeing pious Roman Catholics eating
barnacles on Fridays, and being assured that they were nothing else than fishes! My friend
added that they had certainly a most "fish-like flavour," and were, therefore, very nasty birds.

W.B. MACCABE.

       *       *       *       *       *

DORNE THE BOOKSELLER.

Mr. Editor,--I beg to add my protest to your own, respecting the conclusion drawn by your valuable
correspondent W. as to his competency to his arduous task, which no person could doubt who
knows him. My remarks had reference to the supposed scribe of the catalogue, whose brains,
according to W., were in some degree of confusion at times. His name is still in obscuro, it
seems. "Henno Rusticus" is clear. W., I trust, will accept my apology. I say with Brutus, verbis
paulo mutatis--

  "By heaven, I had rather coin my heart,
  And drop my blood for drachmas, than to plant
  In the kind bosom of a friend a thorn,
  By any indirection."

J.I.

       *       *       *       *       *

REV. WM. STEPHENS' SERMONS.

Sir,--Amongst the books wanted in your sixth number is "a Tract or Sermon" of the Rev. Wm.
Stephens. It is a sermon, and one of four, all of which are far above the ordinary run of sermons,
and deserving of a place in every clergyman's library. They are rarely met with together, though
separately they turn up now and then upon book stalls amongst miscellaneous sermons; it is
a pity they are not better known, and much is every day republished less deserving of preservation.
The author's widow published her husband's sermons in two volumes; but, strange to say, these,
which are worth all the rest, are not included in the collection. The titles of the four sermons
are--

     "The Personality and Divinity of the Holy Ghost proved from
     Scripture, and the Anti-Nicene Fathers." Preached before the
     University of Oxford, St. Matthias' Day, 1716-17. Third Edition,
     1725.

     "The Catholic Doctrine concerning the Union of the Two Natures in
     the One Person of Christ stated and vindicated." Preached at the
     visitation of the Bishop of Oxford, 1719. Second Edition, 1722.

     "The Divine Persons One God by an Unity of Nature: or, That Our
     Saviour is One God with His Father, by an External Generation from
     His Substance, asserted from Scripture and the Anti-Nicene
     Fathers." Preached before the University of Oxford, 1722. Second
     Edition, 1723.

     "The Several Heterodox Hypotheses, concerning both the Persons and
     the Attributes of the Godhead, justly chargeable with more
     inconsistencies and Absurdities than those which have been
     groundlessly imputed to the Catholic system." Preached at the
     visitation of the Bishop of Exeter, 1724.

I shall be glad to learn from any of your readers whether the author published any other sermons
or tracts which are not included in the two volumes of his sermons.

WM. DENTON

Shoreditch, Dec. 11. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROGER DE COVERLEY.

Sir,--In No. 4 of your "NOTES AND QUERIES" it is asked, if any notice of the tune called Roger
de Coverley is to be met with earlier than 1695, when it was printed by H. Playford in his
Dancing Master? I am happy in being able to inform your correspondent that the tune in question
may be found in a rare little volume in my possession, entitled "The Division-Violin, containing
a Choice Collection of Divisions to a Ground for the Treble-Violin. Being the first Musick
of this kind ever published. London, Printed by J.P. and are sold by John Playford, near the
Temple-Church, 1685, small oblong."

I have every reason to believe, from considerable researches, that no earlier copy can be found
in print.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Omission of the Words DEI GRATIA from the new Florin.

Ruding, in his Annals of the Coinage, iv. 9., furnishes a precedent for the omission of the
words DEI GRATIA from the coinage, in the case of the Irish half-pence and farthings coined
at the Tower in 1736-7. And he supplies, also, a precedent for the dissatisfaction with which
their omission from the new florin has been received, in the shape of two epigrams written
at that time, for which he is indebted (as what writer upon any point of English literature
and history is not) to Sylvanus Urban. The first (from the Gentlemen's Magazine for June, 1837)
is as follows:--

  "No Christian kings that I can find,
    However match'd or odd,
  Excepting ours have ever coin'd
    Without the grace of God.

  "By this acknowledgment they show
    The mighty King of Kings,
  As him from whom their riches flow,
    From whom their grandeur springs.

  "Come, then, Urania, aid my pen,
    The latent cause assign,--
  All other kings are mortal men,
    But GEORGE, 'tis plain, 's divine."

The next month produced this address:--

  To the Author of the Epigram on the new Irish Halfpence.

  "While you behold th' imperfect coin
    Receiv'd without the grace of God,
  All honest men with you must join,
    And even Britons think it odd.

  The grace of God was well left out,
    And I applaud the politician;
  For when an evil's done, no doubt,
    'Tis not by God's grace, but permission."

  Grace's Card, the Six of Hearts.

As a note to the communications which have lately amused your readers, respecting the nine
of diamonds, and the curse of Scotland, allow me to remind you of another card which has a
peculiar name, the origin of which is better ascertained.

At the Revolution of 1688, one of the family of Grace, of Courtstown in Ireland, raised and
equipped a regiment of foot and a troop of horse, at his own expense, for the service of King
James, whom he further assisted with money and plate, amounting, it is said, to 14,000l. He
was tempted with splendid promises of royal favour, to join the party of King William. A written
proposal to that effect was sent to him by one of the Duke of Schomberg's emissaries. Indignant
at the insulting proposal, the Baron of Courtstown seized a card, which was accidentally lying
near him, and wrote upon it this answer: "Go, tell your master, I despise his offer! Tell him
that honour and conscience are dearer to a gentleman than all the wealth and titles a prince
can bestow!" The card happened to be the "six of hearts," and to this day that card is generally
known by the name of "Grace's card," in the city of Kilkenny.

I derive these particulars principally from the Memoirs of the Family of Grace, by Sheffield
Grace, Esq. 4to. London, 1823, p. 42.

W.L.

Florins.

The following extract from the Issue Roll of Easter I Edward III. 1327, may interest the inquirers
into the antiquity of the FLORIN, lately introduced into our coinage:--

     "To Robert de Wodehouse, keeper of the King's Wardrobe, for the
     price of 174 florins from Florence, price each florin as purchased,
     39-1/2d. paid to the same keeper by the hands of John de Houton,
     his clerk, for one pound and one mark of gold, to make oblations on
     the day of the coronation for the Lord the King:--and in the manner
     was delivered 104 florins and a mark of 70s. by the king's
     command, under the privy seal, which was used before he received
     the government of this kingdom,--£28.12.6."

     [Greek: Phi].

John Hopkins, the Psalmist.

Sir,--Little is known of the personal history of John Hopkins, the coadjutor of Sternhold in
the translation of the Psalms. It is generally agreed that he was a clergyman and a schoolmaster
in Suffolk, but no one has mentioned in what parish of that county he was beneficed. It is
highly probably that the following notes refer to this person, and if so, the deficiency will
have been supplied by them.

In Tanner's List of the Rectors of Great Waldingfield in Suffolk, taken from the Institution
Book at Norwich, there is this entry:--

"Reg. xix. 55  12 Aug. 1561
               Joh. Chetham, ad praes. Willi Spring, Arm.
                   Jo. Hopkins.
               168. 3 April, 1571.
               Tho. Cooke, ad praes. Edw. Colman, B.D."

In the Parish Register of Great Waldingfield is the following:--

"Buried, 1570.  Mr. John Hopkins, 23rd Oct."

D.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES IN ANSWER TO MINOR QUERIES.

Genealogy of European Sovereigns.

Sir,--Perhaps the following books will be of service to your correspondent Q.X.Z., viz.:--

     "A Genealogical History of the present Royal Families of Europe,
     the Stadtholders of the United States, and the Succession of the
     Popes from the 15th century, &c. &c., by the Rev. Mark Noble."
     London, 1781.

     "Historical and Genealogical, Chronological, and Geographical
     Atlas, exhibiting all the Royal families in Europe, their origin,
     Descent, &c., by M. Le Sage." London, 1813.

     "Complete Genealogical, Historical, Chronological, and Geographical
     Atlas, &c., by C.V. Lavoisne." Philadelphia, 1821.

W.J.B.

Countess of Pembroke's letter--Drayton's Poems--A Flemish Account--Bishop Burnet.

Your correspondent, at p. 28., asks whether there is any contemporary copy of the celebrated
letter, said to have been written by Anne, Countess of Pembroke, to Sir Joseph Williamson?
I would refer him to Mr. Hartley Coleridge's Lives of Distinguished Northerns, 1833, p. 290.
His arguments for considering the letter spurious, if not conclusive, are very forcible, but
they are too copious for this paper.

Your readers, who may not be conversant with that undeservedly neglected volume, will confess
their obligation, when they have consulted its pages, in having been directed to so valuable
and so original a work. It may be observed, that those letters of the Countess which are authentic,
are certainly written in a very different style to the one in question; but this letter, if
addressed by her to Sir Joseph Williamson, would be written under peculiar circumstances, and
being in her 84th year, she might naturally have asked the assistance of the ablest pen within
her reach. I have the copy of an interesting letter, addressed by the late Mr. John Baynes
to Ritson, in 1785, stating his admiration of the Countess's "spirit and industry, having seen
the collections made by her order relative to the Cliffords--such as no other noble family
in the world can show."

I join in wishing that Mr. Pickering would add a judicious selection from Drayton's poetical
works to his Lives of Aldine Poets. To the list given by your correspondent (p. 28.), may be
added a work entitled Ideas Mirrour Amours in quatorzains (London, 1594, 4to. p. 51.), which
was lent to me about forty years ago, but which I have not seen since. Some notice of it, by
myself, will be found in the Censura Literaria. with the following note by Sir C. Brydges:--"The
extreme rarity of this publication renders a farther account desirable, and also more copious
extracts. It appears wholly unknown to Herbert, and to all the biographers of Drayton." It
is unnoticed by Ritson also. Chalmers, in his Series of English Poets, has referred to this
communication, but he has not printed the poem amongst Drayton's works.

The expression "a Flemish account" is probably not of very long standing, as it is not found
in the most celebrated of our earlier dramatists, unless, indeed, Mrs. Page's remark on Falstaff's
letter may be cited as an illustration:--"What an unweighed behaviour hath this Flemish drunkard
picked out of my conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me."

If the habit of drinking to excess prevailed in the Low Countries in the sixteenth century
to the extent represented, may not the expression have arisen from that circumstance, and been
equivalent to the contempt which is usually entertained for the loose or imperfect statements
made by a tipsy or drunken man?

When quoting opinions upon Burnet, we must not forget the brief but pregnant character which
Burke has given of the Bishop's History of his Own Times. In his admirable speech at Bristol,
previous to the election if 1780, Burke says, "Look into the History of Bishop Burnet; he is
a witness without exception."

Dr. Johnson was not so laudatory:--"Burnet is very entertaining. The style, indeed, is mere
chit-chat. I do not believe that he intentionally lied; but he was so much prejudiced, that
he took no pains to find out the truth."

The reader may refer to Dr. Hickes's Criticism (Atterbury's Correspondence, i. 492.). Calamy's
expression is a significant, if not a very complimentary one, as regards Burnet's candour (Life
and Times, i. 59.).

I.H.M.

Bath, Dec. 1849.

Viz., why the contracted form of Videlicet.

I shall be much obliged if any one of your readers can inform me of the principle of the contraction
viz. for videlicet, the letter z not being at all a component part of the three final syllables
in the full world.

[Cross symbol]

     [Is not our correspondent a little mistaken in supposing that the
     last letter in "viz." as originally a letter z? Was it not one of
     the arbitrary marks of contraction used by the scribes of the
     middle ages, and being in form something like a "z," came to be
     represented by the early printers by that letter? In short, the
     sign3 was a common abbreviation in records for terminations, as
     omnib3 for omnibus, hab3 for habet. Vi3, corruptly viz. is
     still in use.]

Authors of Old Plays.

We are enabled by the courtesy of several correspondents, to answer two of the Queries of Q.D.,
in No. 5. p. 77., respecting the authors of certain old plays.

G.H.B. informs us that Sicily and Naples was written by Samuel Harding; of whom, as we learn
from J.F.M., an account will be found in Wood's Athenae.

NASO informs Q.D. that Nero was written by Matthew Gwinne; there are two editions of it, viz.
1603 and 1633,--and that a copy of it may be procured at 17. Wellington Street, Strand, for 2s.

Birthplace of Coverdale.

Can you inform me of the birthplace of Miles Coverdale?

W.C.

     ["Bishop Myles Coverdale is supposed to have been born in the year
     of our Lord 1488, in the district of Coverdale, in the parish of
     Coverham, near Middleham, in the North Riding of Yorkshire; and it
     is the opinion of the learned historian of Richmondshire, that it
     is an assumed, and not a family name." These are the words of the
     Rev. Geo. Pearson, B.D., the very competent editor of the works of
     Bishop Coverdale, published by the Parker Society. His reference is
     to Whitaker's Hist. of Richmondshire, vol. i. p. 17.]

Caraccioli--Author of Life of Lord Clive.

In reply to K.'s query in No. 7., I have to inform him that "Charles Caraccioli, Gent." called
himself "the Master of the Grammar School at Arundel," and in 1766 published a very indifferent
History of the Antiquities of Arundel; and deprecating censure, he says in his preface, "as
he (the author) was educated and till within these few years has lived abroad, totally unconversant
with the English tongue, he flatters himself that the inaccuracies so frequently interspersed
through the whole, will be observed with some grains of allowance." His Life of Lord Clive
was a bookseller's compilation.

WM. DURRANT COOPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

LOVE, THE KING'S FOOL OF THAT NAME.

In Rawlinson's Manuscripts in the Bodleian (c. 258.), which I take to have been written either
in, or very soon after, the reign of Henry VIII., there is a poem thus entitled:--

  "THE EPITAPHE OF LOVE, THE KYNGE'S FOOLE."

Can any of your readers furnish me with information regarding him? He was clearly a man worthy
of notice, but although I have looked through as many volumes of that period, and afterwards,
as I could procure, I do not recollect meeting with any other mention of him. Skelton, who
must have been his contemporary, is silent regarding him; and John Heywood, who was also living
at the same time, makes no allusion to him that I have been able to discover. Heywood wrote
the "Play of Love," but it has nothing to do with the "King's fool."

The epitaph in question is much in Heywood's humorous and satirical style: it is written in
the English ballad-metre, and consists of seven seven-line stanzas, each stanza, as was not
unusual with Heywood, ending with the same, or nearly the same, line. It commences thus:

  "O Love, Love! on thy sowle God have mercye;
  For as Peter is princeps Apostolorum,
  So to the[e] may be sayd clerlye,
  Of all foolys that ever was stultus stultorum.
  Sure thy sowle is in regna polorum,
    By reason of reason thou haddest none;
    Yet all foolys be nott dead, though thou be gone."

In the next stanza we are told, that Love often made the King and Queen merry with "many good
pastimes;" and in the third, that he was "shaped and borne of very nature" for a fool. The
fourth stanza, which mentions Erasmus and Luther, is the following:--

  "Thou wast nother Erasmus nor Luter;
  Thou dyds medle no forther than thy potte;
  Agaynst hye matters thou wast no disputer,
  Amonge the Innocentes electe was thy lotte:
  Glad mayst thou be thou haddyst that knotte,
    For many foolys by the[e] thynke them selfe none,
    Yet all be nott dead, though thou be gone."

The next stanza speaks of "Dye Apguylamys," who is told to prepare the obsequy for Love, and
of "Lady Apylton," who had offered a "mass-penny," and the epitaph ends with these stanzas:

  "Now, Love, Love! God have mercy on thy mery nowle;
  And Love! God have mercye on thy foolysche face,
  And Love! God have mercye on thy innocent sowle,
  Which amonges innocentes, I am sure, hath a place,
  Or ellys thy sowle ys yn a hevy case;
    Ye, ye, and moo foolys many [a] one,
    For foolys be alyve, Love, though thou be gone.

  "Now, God have mercye on us all,
  For wyse and folysche all dyethe,
  Lett us truly to our myndes call;
  And to say we be wyse owr dedes denyethe,
  Wherefore the ende my reason thys aplyethe:
    God amend all foolys that thynke them selfe none,
    For many be alyve, thoughe Love be gone."

It is very possible that I have overlooked some common source of information to which I may
be referred; and it is very possible also, that this epitaph has been reprinted in comparatively
modern times, and I may not know of it. This is one of the points I wish to ascertain.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

     [Was there no such person as Love, and does the writer mean merely
     to pun upon the word? Cupid certainly played the fool in the court
     of Henry VIII. as much as any body.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MARE DE SAHAM--POSTUM PUSILLUM--WATEWICH.

I am much obliged by J.F.M's answers respecting those places. If he will look to the Historia
Eliensis, lib. ii. c. 84, 85. vol. i. pp. 200-204. (Anglia Christiana), he may be certain whether
or not he has correctly designated them. He may at the same time, if he be well acquainted
with Cambridgeshire, give me the modern interpretation for Watewich, also mentioned in chap.
84. of the Hist. Eliens.

W.B.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ADVENT BELLS.

The Advent bells are ringing in many parishes throughout various parts of England during this
month of December, if I may judge from my own neighbourhood--on the western borders of Berks--where,
at least three times in the week, I hear their merry peals break gladsomely upon the dark stillness
of these cold evenings, from many a steeple around. In the Roman States and the kingdom of
Naples and Sicily, the "pifferari" go about playing on a kind of rough hautboy and bag-pipes,
before the pictures of the Madonna, hung up at the corners of streets and in shops, all through
Advent time; but why are the church bells rung in England? What reference in ancient documents
can be pointed out for the meaning or antiquity of the usage?

He who draws upon a joint-stock bank of literature as rich as yours, Mr. Editor, already is,
should bring a something to its capital, though it be a mite. Allow me, then, to throw in mine.
At p. 77. "A SUBSCRIBER" asks, "if William de Bolton was an ecclesiastic, how is it that his
wife is openly mentioned?" For one of these two reasons: 1st. By the canon law, whether he
be in any of the four minor orders, or in any of the three higher or holy orders, a man is,
and was always, called "Clericus," but clerks in lower or minor orders did, and still do, marry
without censure; 2d. The Church did, and still does, allow man and wife to separate by free
mutual consent, and to bind themselves by the vows of perpetual continence and chastity, the
man going into a monastery, or taking holy orders, the woman becoming a nun. Such, I suspect,
was the case with Sir William de Bolton ("Sir" being the ancient title of a priest) and his
wife, whose joint concurrence in the transfer of property by charter would be legally required,
if, as is likely, she had an interest in it.

Your correspondent "MUSAFIR," while on the subject of the Flemish account, p. 74., is in error,
in assigning to a Count of Flanders the "old story" of the cloaks; it belongs to Robert, Duke
of Normandy, who played off the joke at Constantinople in the court of the Greek emperor, as
Bromton tells us (ed. Twysden, i. 911.)

CEPHAS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POETS.

Many years ago a Sonnet, by Leigh Hunt, characterising the poets, appeared in the Examiner.
Can any of your readers inform me whether the following, which I quote from memory, is correct?

C. DAY.

  "Were I to name, out of the times gone by,
    The poets dearest to me, I should say,
    Pulci for spirits, and a fine, free way,
  Chaucer for manners, and a close, silent eye;
    Spenser for luxury and sweet sylvan play,
    Horace for chatting with from day to day;
  Milton for classic taste and harp strung high,
  Shakspeare for all--but most, society.
    But which take with me could I take but one?
  Shakspeare, as long as I was unoppress'd
    With the world's weight, making sad thoughts intenser;
    But did I wish out of the common sun
  To lay a wounded heart in leafy rest,
    And dream of things far off and healing--Spenser."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. POORE'S LITERARY COLLECTIONS--INIGO JONES--MEDAL OF STUKELEY--SIR JAMES THORNHILL.

Sir,--With thanks for the insertion of my former letter, I proceed to submit a few literary
queries for solution through the medium of your pages.

In connection with the country of Wilts, I will first mention the literary collections of the
late Edward Poore, Esq., of North Tidworth, which I examined, with much satisfaction, on my
visits to him there, in the year 1798 and 1799. Mr. Poore was a man of considerable attainments,
and corresponded with many distinguished characters, both at home and abroad. He travelled
over many parts of the continent, and his letters and notes relating to public and private
occurrences and persons were remarkably curious and interesting. I have long lost all trace
of them, and should be glad to ascertain where they are likely to be found.

An immense boon would be conferred on the cause of Architecture and Archæology by the recovery
of Inigo Jones's Sketches and Drawings of Ancient Castles. These, together with his Plans,
Views, and Restorations of Stonehenge, probably descended to his nephew, Webb. The latter were
engraved, and published in Webb's volume on Stonehenge; but the Sketches of Castles have never
yet been published. On the ground of Inigo Jones's intimacy with Lord Pembroke, I was referred
to the library at Wilton as a probable despositor of his drawings, but without success; as
I am informed, they do not form a part of that valuable collection. Perhaps I may be allowed
to correct the error which so commonly ascribes the erection of Wilton House to Jones. In the
Natural History of Wiltshire, by John Aubrey, which I edited in 1847 (4to.), it is clearly
shown that the mansion was built in 1633 by, or from the designs of, Solomon de Caus, architect,
who was probably aided by his brother Isaac, and that it was rebuilt in 1648, after an extensive
fire, by Webb, who, as is well known, married a niece of Inigo Jones. The latter celebrated
architect recommended the employment of these parties, and probably approved of their designs,
but had no further share in their production. His advice, however, to the Earl of Pembroke,
was the means of preserving the famous Porch at Wilton, ascribed to Hans Holbein, which gives
him a peculiar claim to the gratitude of all architectural antiquaries.

I possess a large collection of the manuscript journals, papers, drawings, and correspondence
of Dr. Stukeley. To the kindness of my old friend Dr. Ingram, President of Trinity College,
Oxford, I also owe a large Bronze Medal, with a medallion portrait of Stukeley on the obverse,
and a view of Stonehenge on the reverse. This is evidently a cast from moulds, and rather crudely
executed, and I am induced to regard it as unique. I shall be much gratified if any of your
correspondents can furnish me with a clue to its history, or to the name of its maker. I would
here venture to suggest some inquiry into the biography of Charles Bertram, of Copenhagen,
who furnished Dr. Stukeley with the manuscript of the Itinerary of Richard of Cirencester,
which has led to so much curious discussion. It would be interesting to learn whether Bertram's
papers were bequeathed to any public library at Copenhagen.

Sir James Thornhill was in the habit of making sketches and descriptive memoranda in his various
travels and excursions. Some years ago one of his pocket-books was lent to me, in which he
had not only written notices of the places visited, but made very clever pen sketches of several
objects. Whilst in my possession, I copied many pages, and also traced some of the drawings.
Among the latter is a Market Cross at Ipswich, long since destroyed, also the Sessions House
and the Custom House of Harwich, with various antiquities, &c., at Ryswich, Delph, Tournay,
Brussels, and the Hague. I have often regretted that I did not copy the whole volume, as it
contained many curious facts and anecdotes. I have tried in vain to ascertain the name and
address of the possessor. He was a country gentleman, and lodged in Southampton Row, Russell
Square. The volume is dated 1711, and contains full accounts of buildings and works of art.
He says, "Killigrew told King Charles that Ipswich had a large river without water, streets
without names, and a town without people."

In July, 1817, I published a small volume entitled Antiquarian and Architectural Memoranda
relating to Norwich Cathedral, in which were two copper-plates, a ground-plan of the church,
and a view of the west front; with woodcuts of the font, and of the Erpingham gateway, both
engraved by John Thompson. The plates and cuts were sold by auction (by Mr. Southgate of Fleet
Street), with the stock of the work, and have been resold by the purchaser. I have sought in
vain to re-obtain the woodcuts, and shall be gratified to find that it is still practicable.

After many years' search for the documents, &c., referred to in this and my preceding letter,
I am still reluctant to abandon their pursuit. That valuable collections are sometimes protected
from destruction, in obscurity, for years, is shown by the loss and recovery of the well-known
collection of Architectural Designs and Drawings by John Thorpe, now in the Soane Museum. That
singular and interesting series was in the possession of the Earl of Warwick, in the latter
part of the last century. In 1807 I applied to his lordship for permission to examine it; but
he informed me that Richard Cumberland, the author, had borrowed it many years before, in order
to submit it to Lord George Germaine, and that it had not since been heard of. Thus, from before
1785, when Lord George Germaine died, the drawings were lost until about thirty years afterwards,
when I purchased them for Sir John Soane, at the sale of the library of ---- Brooke, Esq.,
of Paddington (probably a relative of the Earl of Warwick), into whose possession they had
unaccountably passed.

JOHN BRITTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MIDDLE TEMPLE.

In Mr. Frederick Devon's Pell Records, vol. iii. p. 34., there is an entry in the Issue Roll
of Easter, 41 Henry III. 1257, of a payment.

     "To the Brethren of the Middle Temple, £4. in part of £8.
     appointed alms for the support of three chaplains to celebrate
     divine service, at Easter Term, in the 41st year, by writ patent."

And in p. 88. is the following writ for payment at Easter Term, 4 Edward I. 1276:--

     "Pay out of our Treasury, from the day of the death of the Lord
     King Henry, our Father, of renowned memory, for each year, to our
     beloved Master and Brethren of the Knights Templars in England, £8.
     which our father granted to them by his charter to be received
     yearly at our Exchequer, for the support of three chaplains, daily
     for ever, to perform divine service in the New Temple, London, one
     of whom is to perform service for our aforesaid father, the other
     for all Christian people, and the third for the faithful deceased,
     as was accustomed to be done in the time of our aforesaid father.
     Witness, &c."

I presume that there can be no doubt that the grant referred to in the last extract is that
which is mentioned in the first. But if so, what is meant by "Brethren of the Middle Temple?"

Both entries are before the suppression of the order, and it was not till long after the suppression
that the Temple was occupied by the lawyers as a place of study; nor till long after the establishment
of lawyers there, that is to say, more than a hundred years after the date of the first extract,
that the Temple was divided into two houses, called, as now, the Inner Temple and the Middle
Temple. Added to which, the church of the Temple is in that division which is called the Inner
Temple.

Can any of your correspondents favour me with the precise words of the original record, or
explain the meaning of the term used?

EDWARD FOSS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Henry Lord Darnley.

Can any of your readers inform me where the celebrated Darnley, second husband of Mary, Queen
of Scots, was born? His birth took place in England, where his father, Matthew Stuart, Earl
of Lennox, was residing, being banished from Scotland. Henry VIII. gave the Earl his niece
in marriage, and several estates in Yorkshire; among others, the lands of Jervaux Abbey, and
the adjacent manor of West Scrafton. Middleham Castle, which was then perfect, and belonged
to the King, lies between these, and was probably at least an occasional residence of the Earl,
though we have no correct account of its occupants after the death of Richard III.

W.G.M.J. Barker.

Banks of the Yere, Nov. 28. 1849.

Coffee, the Lacedaemonion Black Broth.

Your "notes on Coffee" in No. 2. reminded me that I had read in some modern author a happy
conjecture that "coffee" was the principal ingredient of the celebrated "Lacedaemonian black
broth," but as I did not "make a note of it" at the time, and cannot recollect the writer from
whom I derived this very probable idea, I may perhaps be allowed to "make a query" of his name
and work.

R.O.

Eton, Nov. 26. 1849.

Letters of Mrs. Chiffinch.

The Chafins, of Chettle, in Dorsetshire, possessed at one time some interesting family memorials.
In the third volume of Hutchins's Dorset, pp. 166, 167., are printed two or three letters of
Thomas Chafin on the battle of Sedgemoor. In a manuscript note, Hutchins alludes to letters,
written by a female member of the family, which contain some notices of the court of Charles
II. Can your Dorsetshire correspondents inform me whether these letters exist? I suspect that
the lady was wife of the notorious Chiffinch; and she must have seen and heard strange things.
The letters may be worthless, and it is possible that the family might object to a disclosure
of their contents. The manuscript memorandum is in Gough's copy of the History of Dorset in
the Bodleian Library.

J.F.M.

Sangred--Dowts of Holy Scripture.

In the will of John Hedge, of Bury St. Edmund's, made in 1504, is this item:--

     "I beqweth to the curat of the seid church iiijs. iiijd. for a
     sangred to be prayed for in the bedroule for my soule and all my
     good ffrends soulls by the space of a yeer complete."

In the same year Thomas Pakenham, of Ixworth Thorpe, bequeathed 6 hives of bees to the sepulchre
light, "to pray for me and my wyffe in y'e comon sangered;" and in 1533, Robert Garad, of Ixworth,
bequeathed to the high altar ijs. "for halfe a sangred."

Can any of your reader explain what the sangred is? or give me any information about the book
referred to in the following extract from the will of William Place, Master of St. John's Hospital,
Bury St. Edmund's, made in 1504:--

     "Item. I beqweth to the monastery of Seynt Edmund forseid my book
     of the dowts of Holy Scryptur, to ly and remain in the cloyster,"
     &c.

BURIENSIS.

Catsup, Catchup, or Ketchup.

Will any of your philological readers be so obliging as to communicate any note he may have
touching the original or definition of the word Catchup?

It does not appear in Johnson's Dictionary. Mr. Todd, in his edition, inserts it with an asterisk,
denoting it as a new introduction, and under Catsup says, see Catchup. Under this latter word
he says--"Sometimes improperly written Ketchup, a poignant liquor made from boiled mushrooms,
mixed with salt, used in cooking to add a pleasant flavour to sauces." He gives no derivation
of the word itself, and yet pronounces the very common way of spelling it improper.

What reference to, or connexion with, mushrooms has the word?--and why Catsup, with the inference
that it is synonymous with Catchup?

G.

"Let me make a Nation's Ballads, who will may make their Laws!"

One perpetually hears this exclamation attributed to different people. In a magazine which
I took up this morning, I find it set down to "a certain orator of the last century;" a friend
who is now with me, tells me that it was unquestionably the saying of the celebrated Lord Wharton;
and I once heard poor Edward Irving, in a sermon, quote it as the exclamation of Wallace, or
some other Scottish patriot. Do relieve my uncertainty, and, for the benefit of our rising
orator, tell us to whom the saying ought to be set down.

C.U.B.E.R.

To endeavour Oneself.

In the Collect for the 2nd Sunday after Easter, in the preface to the Confirmation Service,
and in the form of Ordering of priest, the verb "endeavour" takes (clearly, I think) a middle-voice
form, "to endeavour one's self." Is there any other authority for this usage? No dictionary
I have seen recognises it.

G.P.

Date of the Anonymous Ravennas.

Can you inform me of the date of the Chorographia Britanniæ Anonymi Ravennatis?

W.C.

     [This is a very difficult question. We should be glad to hear any
     of our correspondents upon the subject.]

The Battle of Towton.

The "Note" on the battle-field of Sedgemoor, induces a "Query" concerning another equally celebrated
locality.

It is well known in the neighbourhood, that the field of Towton, at least that part of it which
is now, and, according to tradition, has remained pasture since the days of the wars of York
and Lancaster, produces two species of roses, which grow in stunted patches throughout its
extent. Has their presence ever been noticed or accounted for? If we again allow tradition
to give its evidence, we are told they were planted on the graves of the fallen combatants.

PETER H. JENNINGS.

Tadcaster.

A Peal of Bells.

