In Constantinople there are three churches which seem to constitute a type apart, though resembling
in many ways the types just considered. They are S. Andrew in Krisei, (p. 117), S. Mary Pammakaristos
(p. 150), and S. Mary Panachrantos (p. 130). In these churches, as originally built, the central
dome is carried on four arches which rise above a one-storied aisle or ambulatory, allowing
of windows in the dome arches on three sides--the eastern dome arch being prolonged to form
the bema. The dome arches have arcades communicating with the ambulatory on the north, south,
and west. The vaulting is executed either with barrel or with cross-groined vaults. These churches
are evidently planned from a centre, not, like the domed basilicas, from a longitudinal axis.
At the same time the absence of any cross arms differentiates them from the domed cross churches.
S. Andrew, which still retains its western arcade, dates from at least the sixth century, so
that the type was in use during the great period of Byzantine architecture. Indeed, we should
be inclined to regard S. Andrew as a square form of SS. Sergius and Bacchus, but without galleries.
The type is a natural development from the octagonal domed church with its surrounding ambulatory.

The typical late Byzantine church is a development from the domed cross plan. In three examples
in Constantinople, S. Theodosia (pp. 170, 172), S. Mary Diaconissa (p. 185), and SS. Peter
and Mark (p. 193), we can trace the gradual disappearance of the galleries. S. Theodosia, as
has already been mentioned, has galleries in all three cross arms. In S. Mary Diaconissa they
are confined to the four angles between the cross arms; SS. Peter and Mark is a simple cross
plan without galleries. In later times it became customary to build many small churches, with
the result that the chambers at the angles of the cross, of little account even in a large
church, were now too diminutive to be of any value, and the question how to provide as much
room as possible for the worshippers became paramount. Accordingly the dome piers were reduced
to mere columns connected with the outer walls of the building by arches; and thus was produced
the typical late Byzantine plan--at the ground level a square, enclosing four columns; above,
a Greek cross with a dome on the centre.

From its distinguishing feature this type has been styled the 'four column' plan. It appears
in many Constantinopolitan churches, as, for example, S. Theodore (p. 248) and S. Saviour Pantepoptes
(p. 214). The cross arms are not always equal, and may be covered with barrel vaults (p. 214)
or with cross-groined vaults (p. 198). The bema is usually a bay added to the eastern arm.
The angle chambers have either cross-groined vaults or flat dome vaults. In general the churches
of this type in Constantinople do not differ from the numerous churches of the same class in
the provinces.[19]

A lobed cruciform plan is found in only one church in Constantinople, that of S. Mary of the
Mongols (p. 277). Here the central dome is supported on four piers set across the angles of
the square, so that the pendentives do not come to a point as usual, but spring from the face
of the piers. Against each side of the square a semi-dome is set, thus producing a quatrefoil
plan at the vaulting level.

Both trefoiled and quatrefoiled churches are not uncommon in Armenia, such as the cathedral
at Etschmiadzin;[20] trefoiled churches of a later date are found in the western provinces,
and examples have been published from Servia,[21] Salonica,[22] and Greece.[23]

An unusual form of the cross plan is seen in the building known as Sanjakdar Mesjedi (p. 267),
where a cross is placed within an octagon. Probably the building was not originally a church.
It resembles the octagon near the Pantokrator (p. 270), and may, like it, have been a library.

Single Hall Churches.--The plans hitherto considered have all been characterised by the presence
of aisles, galleries, or other spaces adjoining the central area. The churches of the present
class consist simply of an oblong hall, terminating in an apse, and either roofed in wood,
or covered with domes placed longitudinally, and resting to north and south on wall arches.
Examples of this plan are found in Monastir Mesjedi (p. 264), S. Thekla (p. 211), Bogdan Serai
(p. 284), and in the memorial chapels attached to the Pantokrator (p. 235), and the Chora (p.
309). In the case of these two memorial chapels, their narrow, long-stretched plan is evidently
due to the desire to keep their eastern apses in line with the east end of the churches they
adjoin, and at the same time to bring the western end to the narthex from which they were entered.
They are covered with two domes, a system perhaps derived from S. Irene (p. 94). Kefelé Mesjedi
(p. 257), which at first sight resembles a single hall church roofed, in wood, was a refectory.
Its plan may be compared with that of the refectory at the monastery of S. Luke at Stiris.[24]

II. ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES AND DETAILS

Apses.--A fully developed Byzantine church terminated in three apses: a large apse, with the
bema or presbytery, in the centre; on the right, the apse of the prothesis where the sacrament
was prepared; on the left, the apse of the diaconicon, where the sacred vessels were kept.
Although there is proof that the prothesis and the diaconicon were in use at a very early period,
yet many churches of the great period, as for example S. John of the Studion, SS. Sergius and
Bacchus, and S. Sophia, dispensed with these chambers as distinct parts of the building. They
were also omitted in small churches of a late date, where they were replaced by niches on either
side of the bema. The three apses usually project from the east wall of the church, but occasionally
(p. 248) the two lateral apses are sunk in the wall, and only the central apse shows on the
exterior. As a rule the apses are circular within and polygonal without. It is rare to find
them circular on both the interior and the exterior (p. 203), and in Greece such a feature
is generally an indication of late date. An octagonal plan, in which three sides of the octagon
appear, sometimes with short returns to the wall, is the most common; but in later churches
polygons of more sides are used, especially for the central apse, and these are often very
irregularly set out. Some of the churches of Constantinople show five, and even seven sides.

Bema.--The bema is rectangular, and sometimes has concave niches on each side (p. 130). It
is covered either with a barrel or with a cross-groined vault, and communicates with the prothesis
and the diaconicon.

Prothesis and Diaconicon.--These chambers are either square (p. 214) or have a long limb to
the east resembling a miniature bema (p. 214). They are lower than the central apse and the
cross arms, so that the cruciform figure of the church shows clearly above them on the exterior,[25]
though in some churches with galleries small chapels overlooking the bema are placed above
them at the gallery level (S. Theodosia). They have usually a niche on three sides, and are
either dome vaulted or have cross-groined vaults. The combination of a cross-groined vault
with four niches springing from the vaulting level is particularly effective. In S. Saviour
in the Chora (p. 307) these chambers are covered with drum domes, pierced with windows, but
this treatment is quite exceptional.

The Gynecaeum.--In the development of church building, the gynecaeum, or gallery for women,
tends to become less and less important. In S. Sophia, S. Irene, and S. Theodosia, the gallery
is a part of the structure. In S. Mary Diaconissa (p. 185) it is reduced to four boxes at the
angles of the cross, while in S. Mary Pammakaristos and SS. Peter and Mark it is absent (pp.
149, 193). But though no longer a structural part of the church, a gynecaeum appears over the
narthex in the latest type of church (p. 215). It is generally vaulted in three bays, corresponding
to the three bays of the narthex below, and opens by three arches into the centre cross arm
of the church and into the aisles.

The Narthex.--Unlike the gynecaeum, the narthex tends in later times to become of greater importance,
and to add a narthex was a favourite method of increasing the size of a church. In basilican
churches, like S. John of the Studion, the narthex was a long hall in three bays annexed to
the west side of the building, and formed the east side of the atrium. In domed cross churches
with galleries the passage under the western gallery was used as a narthex, being cut off from
the central area by the screen arcade which supported the gallery. Such a narthex has been
styled a 'structural narthex,' as forming an essential part of the central building. It occurs
in several of the churches of the city (p. 114).

In domed cross churches without galleries, and in churches of the 'four column' type, neither
narthex nor gallery was possible within the cross, and accordingly the narthex was added to
the west end. It is usually in three bays and opens into the aisles and central area. Frequently
the ends of the narthex terminate in shallow niches (p. 198). In many churches a second narthex
was added (p. 166) to the first, sometimes projecting an additional bay at each end, and communicating
with halls or chapels on the north or south, or on both sides of the church (p. 128). S. Mark's
at Venice presents a fine example of such an extension of the narthex.

When a church could not be sufficiently enlarged by additional narthexes, a second church was
built alongside the first, and both churches were joined by a narthex which extended along
the front of the two buildings. S. Mary Panachrantos (p. 128) is a good example of how a church
could be thus enlarged from a simple square building into a maze of passages and domes.

The Interior.--The natural division, in height, of an early church, whether basilican or domical,
was into three stories--the ground level, the gallery level, and the clearstory or vault level.
In the West these structural divisions were developed into the triple composition of nave-arcade,
triforium, and clearstory. In the East, in conjunction with the dome, these divisions survive
in many examples of the later period. Still, Byzantine architecture was more concerned with
spaces than with lines. Large surfaces for marble, painting, or mosaic were of prime importance,
and with the disappearance of the gallery the string-course marking the level of the gallery
also tended to disappear. In churches with galleries, like S. Theodosia (p. 170) and S. Mary
Diaconissa (p. 185), the string-courses fulfil their function, the first marking the gallery
level, the second the springing of the vault. In SS. Peter and Mark (p. 193), which has no
gallery, there is only one string-course, corresponding in level to the original gallery string-course;
accordingly the main arches are highly stilted above it. The absence of the second string-course
is a faulty development, for a string-course at the vault level would be a functional member,
whereas at the gallery level it is meaningless.

In the Panachrantos (p. 130), as well as in other churches without a gallery, the gallery string-course
is omitted by a more logical development, and the string-course at the springing of the vault
is retained. Openings which do not cut into the vault are then frankly arched, without impost
moulding of any kind. Simple vaulted halls, narthexes, and passages have usually a string-course
at the vaulting level, broken round shallow pilasters as at the Chora, S. Theodosia, and the
Myrelaion. Sometimes the string-courses or the pilasters or both are omitted, and their places
are respectively taken by horizontal and vertical bands. Decorative pilasters flush with the
wall are employed in the marble incrustation of S. Sophia.

In churches of the 'four column' type the full triple division is common but with a change
in purpose. A gallery in a church of this character is not possible, for the piers between
which the gallery was placed have dwindled into single shafts. Hence the first string-course
ceases to mark a gallery level and becomes the abacus level of the dome columns, as in the
north and in the south churches of the Pantokrator. It is then carried round the building,
and forms the impost moulding of the side arches in the bema and of the east window. Sometimes,
however, it does not extend round the bema and apse but is confined to the central part of
the church, as in the Myrelaion, S. Theodore, and the Pantepoptes. On the other hand, in at
least one case, the parecclesion of the Pammakaristos, the central part of the chapel is designed
in the usual three tiers, but the apse and bema vaults spring from the lower or abacus string-course,
leaving a lunette in the dome arch above pierced by a large window. A corresponding lunette
at the west end opens into the gynecaeum of the chapel. In S. John in Trullo the two string-courses
coalesce and the arches connecting the columns with the walls cut into the stilted part of
the dome arches, with the result that all the structural arches and vaults spring from the
same level.

Arches.--Though the pointed arch was known and employed in cisterns, as in the Cistern of the
One Thousand and One Columns, Bin-bir-derek, the circular arch is invariably found in work
meant to be seen. The difficulty attending this form, in which arches of unequal breadth do
not rise to the same height, was overcome, as in the West, by stilting, that is, by raising
the smaller arches on straight 'legs' to the required height. The stilted arch, indeed, seems
to have been admired for its own sake, as we find it used almost universally both in vaulting
and in decorative arches even where it was not structurally required. In windows and in the
arches connecting the dome columns to the wall stilting is sometimes carried to extremes.

Domes.--The eastern dome of S. Irene, erected about 740 A.D., is generally considered to be
the first example of a dome built on a high drum, though S. Sophia of Salonica, an earlier
structure, has a low imperfect drum. After this date the characteristics of the Byzantine dome
are the high drum divided by ribs or hollow segments on the interior, polygonal on the exterior,
and crowned by a cornice which is arched over the windows.[26]

Drumless domes are sometimes found in the later churches, as in the narthexes of the Panachrantos
and S. Andrew, the angle domes of S. Theodosia, and in Bogdan Serai. These are ribless hemispherical
domes of the type shown in Fig. 8, and are in all cases without windows. The earlier system
of piercing windows through the dome does not occur in the later churches, though characteristic
of Turkish work.

The three diagrams (Figs. 8, 9, and 10) illustrate the development of the dome: firstly, the
low saucer dome or dome-vault in which dome and pendentives are part of the same spherical
surface; secondly, the hemispherical dome on pendentives; and thirdly, the hemispherical dome
with a drum interposed between it and the pendentives.

Flat external cornices on the dome are not uncommon in the later churches of Byzantine Greece,
as in S. Sophia at Monemvasia.[27] In Constantinople only one dome with a flat cornice can
be regarded as original, that of S. John in Trullo, a church which is exceptional also in other
respects. The many other domes in the churches of Constantinople on high drums and with flat
cornices are Turkish either in whole or in part. The high ribless domes of the Panachrantos,
for instance, circular in plan within and without, with square-headed windows, plain stone
sill, and flat cornice in moulded plaster, may be regarded as typical Turkish drum-domes. As
will appear in the sequel, the dome over the north church of the Pantokrator and the domes
of SS. Peter and Mark, the Diaconissa, and S. Theodosia, are also Turkish.

It is most unfortunate that the domes of these three domed cross churches have been altered,
especially as the domes of S. Mary Diaconissa and S. Theodosia are larger than any of the later
domes except the large oval dome on the central church of the Pantokrator which is almost of
the same size. It is therefore now difficult to say what was the precise form of the original
domes. Most probably they were polygonal drum-domes, and their collapse owing to their size
may well have led to the small drum-domes of later times. Though not strictly Byzantine these
Turkish domes are of interest as showing the development of Byzantine forms under Turkish rule,
and that reversion to the earlier drumless dome which is so marked a feature of the imperial
mosques of the city.

Domes are either eight, twelve, or sixteen sided, and usually have a window in each side. These
numbers arise naturally from setting a window at each of the cardinal points and then placing
one, two, or three windows between, according to the size of the dome. Internally the compartments
are separated by broad, flat ribs, or are concave and form a series of ridges on the dome which
die out towards the crown. In sixteen-sided domes of the latter type the alternate sides sometimes
correspond to the piers outside, so that the dome which has sixteen sides within shows only
eight sides without, as in the narthex of S. Theodore (p. 246). The octagonal dome of the Myrelaion
(p. 198) seems to have had only four windows from the beginning.

The ribs of a Byzantine dome are not constructive in the same way as are the ribs of a Gothic
vault. They were built along with the rest of the dome and of the same material, and are in
no way separate from the infilling, though they no doubt strengthened the shell of the dome
by their form[28]. On the outside a circular shaft with a very simple cap is often placed at
the angles of the piers, and from these shafts the brick cornice springs in a series of arches
over the windows. Sometimes the angle is formed by a point between two half-shafts, as in the
domes of the narthex in S. Theodore (p. 246).

External Treatment.--In the older churches the exterior seems to have been left in simple masses
of brickwork, impressive only by their size and proportion. Probably even this effect was not
considered of great importance. In later times a very beautiful system of decoration with slender
shallow niches was introduced and was applied in particular to the east end and to the apses.
The finest examples of this system on a large scale are seen at the Pantokrator (p. 235) and
S. Theodosia (p. 173). Carefully considered or elaborate external compositions are rare, and
the only examples in Constantinople are the side chapel of the Pammakaristos (p. 154) and the
narthex of S. Theodore (p. 246).

External Marble and Mosaic.--Marble and mosaic, we have reason to know, were occasionally used
on the exterior of churches,[29] though no fragments remain. On the south side of the Pantepoptes
(p. 216) the string-course does not correspond to the line of the walls, but projects in a
manner which shows that marble must have been employed to line the large windows. A similar
projection of the string-course or cornice is not uncommon elsewhere, though not so evident
as in the Pantepoptes, and may have been made to receive a marble or mosaic lining.

Doors and Windows.--It is a primary rule in Byzantine architecture that all constructive openings
are arched. Whatever may be the eventual form of a door or window the opening is first built
in brick with a semicircular head, and into this opening the marble jambs and lining are fitted
leaving a semicircular lunette above. Doors are square-headed, with heavily moulded architraves
and cornice, and the lintel is mitred into the jambs instead of having the more constructive
horizontal joint used in the West.

The doors made of wood or of wood lined with bronze, swing on top and bottom pivots which turned
in bronze-lined sockets in lintel and threshold. They closed with a rebate in the jambs and
against the raised threshold. Windows were sometimes filled in a similar manner, as in the
palace of the Porphyrogenitus and in the north gallery of S. Saviour in the Chora (Fig. 100).
In the latter double windows or shutters were employed, opening inwards in the same way as
did the doors. These shutters may perhaps be regarded as domestic, for in the churches, as
is still seen in S. Sophia though the arrangement has vanished elsewhere, the entire arched
opening was usually filled in with a pierced marble grille.

In addition to the simple round-headed windows double and triple windows are found. Double
windows were naturally formed by dividing the single arch by a central pier. This method presented
two varieties: either the pier was continued up to the containing arch, thus giving two pointed
lights, or the two lights were covered by separate arches within the main arch. Both methods
are used in the narthex of S. Theodore (p. 247). Another variety was produced by placing two
single lights together, with a shaft between them instead of the central pier. But as double
windows are not very satisfactory, triple windows are more common. In this case both the methods
just described of forming the windows were adopted. A large semicircular opening divided by
two piers will give an arched light between two pointed lights, or three arched lights, as
in the narthex of S. Theodore. In the former case, if shafts are substituted for the piers,
a little adjustment will produce the beautiful form found in the side-chapels of the Pammakaristos
(p. 152), and of S. Saviour in the Chora (p. 310), where the two side lights are covered by
half-arches whose crowns abut on the capitals of the shafts, while between and above them rises
the semicircular head of the central light.

The method of grouping three arched windows of the same height is adopted in apse windows,
each of them occupying one side of the exterior. As the deep, narrow mullions are set radiating,
the arch is narrower inside than outside. But this difficulty was overcome, partly by lowering
the inner crowns, so that the arch is conical, partly by winding the surface. In the Pantokrator
(p. 238), instead of radiating to the centre of the apse, the side and mullions are placed
parallel to the axis of the church, thus obviating all difficulty. Generally the centre to
which the mullions radiate is considerably beyond the apse, so that any necessary little adjustment
of the arch could easily be made.

Triple windows supported on circular columns are not infrequent in the north and south cross
arms. Sometimes the central light is larger than the lateral lights, at other times, as in
the Pantepoptes, the three lights are equal. The lower part of these windows was probably filled
in with a breastwork of carved slabs, as in S. Sophia, while the upper part was filled by a
pierced grille. At present the existing examples of these windows have been built up to the
abaci of the capitals, but in the church of S. Mary Diaconissa (p. 186) the columns still show
the original form on the inside.

Vaulting.--All Byzantine churches of any importance are vaulted in brick. The only exception
to this rule in Constantinople is the little church known as Monastir Mesjedi (p. 264). The
different systems of Byzantine vaulting have been so fully treated by Choisy and other authorities,
that in the absence of any large amount of new material it is not necessary to give here more
than a few notes on the application of these systems in Constantinople. It should always be
kept in view that, as these vaults were constructed with the lightest of centering, the surfaces
and curves must have been largely determined by the mason as he built, and would not necessarily
follow any definite geometrical development. "Il serait illusoire," remarks Choisy, "d'attribuer
à toutes les voutes byzantines un trace géométrique rigoureusement défini."[30]

The vaults commonly found are the barrel vault, the cross-groined vault, and the dome-vault.
The first is frequently used over the cross arms and the bema, and sometimes over the narthex
in conjunction with the groined vault (Diaconissa). It is the simplest method of covering an
oblong space, but it does not easily admit of side windows above the springing.

A very beautiful form of cross-groined vault is found in S. Sophia and in SS. Sergius and Bacchus,
in which the crown is considerably domed, and the groins, accordingly, lose themselves in the
vaulting surface. This form is found in Greek churches of late date, but does not occur in
the later churches of Constantinople. A full description of the form and construction is given
by Choisy[31] and by Lethaby and Swainson.[32]

The cross-groined vault as found in the Myrelaion and many other churches of the city is level
in the crown, with clearly marked groins. It is sometimes used with transverse arches resting
on pilasters, or without these adjuncts.

One of the most interesting of the vault forms is the dome-vault, a shallow dome with continuous
pendentives. It is distinguished in appearance from the groined vault, as found in S. Sophia,
by the absence of any groin line, and is completely different in construction.

The geometrical construction is that of the pendentives of all domes. The four supporting arches
intersect a hemispherical surface whose diameter is equal to the diagonal of the supporting
square. The pendentives produce at the crown line of the arches a circular plan which is filled
in by a saucer dome of the same radius as the pendentives, constructed of circular brick rings,
the joints of which radiate to the centre. If the space to be covered is not square the broader
arches intersect at a higher level, while the narrow arches are not stilted, but kept down
so as to receive the dome surface, and in this case the narrow arches are not semicircular,
but segmental. Where the difference in size between the two sides was not great, the difficulty
presented was easily overcome by the Byzantine builder, who in the later buildings, at any
rate, rarely built anything within four inches of its geometrical position. Where the difference
was too great it was frankly accepted, and we find segmental arches at the narrow ends.

The vaulting of the outer narthex of S. Saviour in the Chora illustrates this fully (Fig. 11).
Though some of the bays of that narthex are oblong and others almost square all are covered
with dome vaults. The almost square bays, although their sides vary considerably, are covered
precisely as if their sides were exactly equal. But in two of the oblong bays, which are nearly
three times as long as they are broad, such a method could not be applied. Longitudinal arches
(AA) were accordingly thrown between the transverse arches (CC) and made to rest on their spandrils.
The oblong form of the intervening space was thus very much reduced, and over it flat domes
are thrown. Their rings are true circles, and as the space they cover is still somewhat oblong
they descend lower, with additional segments of rings (BB), at the ends than at the sides.
In the remaining two oblong bays of the narthex, the result of introducing the longitudinal
arches is to convert a decidedly oblong space in one direction into a slightly oblong space
in the opposite direction, an additional proof, if any were needed, that the exact shape of
plan with this form of vault was a matter of comparative indifference to the builder.

In S. Sophia the vault springs from the intrados of the transverse arches, that is, from the
lower edge. In SS. Sergius and Bacchus it springs from a point so slightly raised as to be
hardly noticeable. In the later vaults, however, the transverse arches, when present, are boldly
shown, and the vault springs from the extrados or outer edge (e.g. S. Saviour in the Chora,
S. Theodore).

Construction.--Most of the churches of the city are covered with thick coats of plaster and
whitewash, both within and without. Only in a few cases, where these coatings have fallen away
through neglect, or in some remote corner of a building to which these coatings were never
applied, can the construction and the laying of the brickwork be studied. The two-storied chapel,
known as Bogdan Serai (p. 283), is almost denuded of plaster, and is therefore of importance
in this connection. The bricks of the wall arches on which its dome rests are laid considerably
flatter than the true radiating line, leaving a triangular piece to be filled in at the crown.
On the other hand, the bricks of the transverse arches under the dome radiate to the centre.

It has been supposed that the method followed in the wall arches was employed in order to economise
centering, since bricks could gradually be worked out over the space, each course simply sticking
to the one below. This is undoubtedly the case in some examples. But here centering could not
have been of any service in the wall arches, and the transverse arches are laid without flattening
of the courses, though that arrangement might have been useful in their case. It is therefore
more probable that the flattening of the courses in the wall arches is simply a piece of careless
workmanship. The pendentives, like all pendentives that could be examined, were formed of horizontal
courses corbelled out to the circle. The dome, bema, and the barrel vault in the lower story
(p. 285) seem to be laid with true radiating joints. The springing of the barrel vault is formed
of four courses of stone laid horizontally and cut to the circle, and above them the entire
barrel is of brick. The dome arches of the Sanjakdar Mesjedi (p. 270) are formed of three distinct
rings, not bonded into one another. They radiate to the true centre, and the pendentives are,
as usual, in horizontal courses. The transverse arches of the outer narthex in S. Saviour in
the Chora are also built with true radiating courses.

The gynecaeum of the side-chapel of the Pammakaristos (p. 153) has never been plastered, and
consequently the laying of the brickwork can be seen there to advantage. The little stair leading
up to the gallery is covered with a sloping barrel vault built in segments perpendicular to
the slope of the stair and could easily have been built without centering. The same remark
applies to the cross vault at the head of the stair, which is similarly constructed in 'slices'
parallel to each side (p. 154). The arches of the gynecaeum itself, the vaults, and the two
little domes, seem to have true radiating joints. The ribs of the domes are formed in the brickwork,
and are not structurally separate. In these last examples, and in all door and window openings,
in which the joints invariably radiate from the centre, a certain amount of centering was inevitable.

On the other hand a little passage in S. Saviour in the Chora between the church and the parecclesion
(p. 311), is covered with a barrel vault evidently built without centering. The space is first
narrowed by two corbelled courses of stone and, above them, by three projecting courses of
brick. From this springs the vault, built from each end in strongly inclined segments. These
segments meet in the middle, leaving a diamond-shaped space filled in with longitudinal courses.
Like the stairs in the Pammakaristos, this passage is very narrow, some 85 cm., yet the builders
thought it necessary to corbel out five courses before venturing to throw a vault without centering.

Near the Pantokrator is an octagonal building, now Suleiman Aga Mesjedi but generally regarded
as a Byzantine library, which has on each side a large wall arch strongly elliptical in form
(p. 270). Two arches of somewhat similar form and apparently original are found in the south
end of the gynecaeum of the Pantokrator (p. 237). These arches may have been built in this
manner to economise centering. Still, in the library they are wall arches easily constructed
without centering.

Failing the examination of a larger number of buildings in Constantinople we can hardly judge
of the later methods of vault and arch construction, but one point may be further noticed.
The wall internally is often set back slightly at each spring course, so that with the projection
of the course a considerable ledge or shelf is left. On this ledge centering could easily be
supported and would have required no further framework to the ground. Centering seems to have
been used for dorm, arches, vaults, and door and window openings. It was not used in small
vaults. But it is difficult to imagine any method of constructing such groined vaults as those
found in the narthexes of the Pantokrator without a very considerable amount of centering.

Ties.--As a general rule tie rods or beams were used, either of iron or wood. In the latter
case they were painted with leaf or fret ornaments, and were evidently considered as natural
features. But large vaults are often found without such ties as in the narthex of the Pantokrator.
Many churches have ties to the dome-arches, and none to the main vault; but it is difficult
to lay down a fixed rule. The enormous amount of mortar in the walls must have made them yield
to a certain degree when newly built, and some of the larger vaults would have been the better
for rods.

Abutments.--The system of abutments in the Byzantine churches of the great period has been
carefully studied by M. Choisy.[33] In early examples the dome springs directly from the pendentives
on the inside, but is thickened externally over the haunches, producing a double curve and
an apparent drum. This is seen very clearly in SS. Sergius and Bacchus. In S. Sophia the numerous
windows are cut through this drum, so that it resembles rather a series of small abutments.
The object was to support the crown of the dome by adding weight over the haunches. In both
these churches the thrust of the dome and its supporting arches is taken by the two-storied
galleries, which form, in fact, flying buttresses within the buildings, and are adapted to
their architectural requirements. The square plan and the enormous size of the dome in S. Sophia
demanded the great buttresses on the sides; while in SS. Sergius and Bacchus the eight buttresses
show only on the outside of the dome and are not carried over the aisles as they are in S.
Sophia. Below the roof the arches and piers of the galleries and aisles are arranged so as
to carry the thrust to the external walls, and following the tradition of Roman vaulting all
buttressing is internal. In S. Irene, where the true drum dome first appears, the buttresses
between the windows of the dome still remain, though much reduced in size. A dome raised on
a drum can evidently no longer exercise a thrust against the dome-arches; its thrust must be
taken by the drum, and only its weight can rest on the arches.

The weight of the drum and dome rests on the pendentives and dome-arches. Their thrust is neutralized
by the use of ties and by the barrel vaults of the cross arms, and these in their turn depend
on the thickness of the walls. The lower buildings attached to the church in the form of side-chapels
and the narthex also helped to stiffen and buttress the cross walls. The system is by no means
perfect in these late churches. It was apparently found impossible to construct drum domes
of any size, except at the extreme risk of their falling in, and probably it is for this reason
that many of the larger domes in late churches, like SS. Peter and Mark, S. Theodosia, the
Chora, have fallen. No system of chainage appears to have been used for domes in Constantinople.

Flying buttresses probably of the ninth century are used at the west end of S. Sophia. The
double-flying buttress to the apse of the Chora does not bond with the building and is certainly
not original. It may be set down as part of the Byzantine restoration of the church in the
fourteenth century. In any case, such external flying abutments are alien to the spirit of
Byzantine architecture, and may be regarded as an importation from the West. Flying buttresses,
it may here be noted, are not uncommon in the great mosques of the city. They are found in
Sultan Bayazid, Rustem Pasha, Sultan Selim, the Suleimanieh, and the Shahzadé. But they are
generally trifling in size, and are rather ornaments than serious attempts to buttress the dome.

Walls.--The walls of the earlier churches are built of large thin bricks laid with mortar joints
at least as thick as the bricks, and often of greater thickness. Stone is used only in special
cases, as in the main piers of S. Sophia, but monolithic marble columns are an important part
of the structure. In the later churches stone is used in courses with the bricks to give a
banded effect, and herring-bone, diamond, and radiating patterns are frequently introduced.
The palace of the Porphyrogenitus, the parecclesion of the Pammakaristos, and Bogdan Serai,
exhibit this style of work. As illustrations of the method adopted in the construction of walls
the following measurements may be given, the sizes being in centimetres:

  +---------------------------------------+----------+--------------+
  |                                       |  Brick.  |    Joint.    |
  +---------------------------------------+----------+--------------+
  | Parecclesion of the Pammakaristos     |   .08    |    .04       |
  |      4 courses brick, 5 joints        |   .46    |    ---       |
  | S. John in Trullo                     |   .03    | .07 to .09   |
  | Refectory of the Monastery of Manuel  |   .04    | .04 to .06   |
  |      4 course stone, 3 joints         |   .78    |    ---       |
  |      4 courses brick, 5 joints        |   .30    |    ---       |
  |                                       | { .0375  |    .052      |
  | Bogdan Serai                          | { .035   |    .035      |
  |                                       | { .04    |    .04       |
  |      4 courses stone, 8 joints        |   ---    |  .55 to .60  |
  |      4 courses brick, 5 joints        |   ---    |  .43 to .47  |
  | Sanjakdar, brick                      |  .045    |    ---       |
  +---------------------------------------+----------+--------------+

Building Procedure.--The first step in the erection of a building was to obtain the necessary
marble columns with their capitals and bases. These seem to have been largely supplied ready
made, and Constantinople was a great centre for the manufacture and export of stock architectural
features. Then the main walls were built in brick, the columns were inserted as required, the
vaults were thrown, and the whole building was left to settle down. Owing to the enormous amount
of mortar used this settling must have been very considerable, and explains why hardly a plumb
wall exists in Constantinople, and why so many vaults show a pronounced sinking in at the crown
or have fallen in and have been rebuilt. After the walls had set the marble facings, mosaic,
and colour were applied and could be easily adapted to the irregular lines of the walls.

Byzantine architecture made little use of mouldings. The great extension of flat and spacious
decoration rendered unnecessary, or even objectionable, any strong line composition. External
cornices are in coursed brick, the alternate courses being laid diagonally so as to form the
characteristic dentil. The richest form is that found in the Pammakaristos, S. Theodosia, and
S. Thekla, where the small dentil cornice is supported on long tapering corbels, a design suggested
by military machicolations.

The stone ogee, cavetto, or cavetto and bead cornice is common, but seems in every case to
be Turkish work and is very common in Turkish buildings. Internal cornices and string-courses
are in marble, and are all of the same type, a splay and fillet. The splayed face is decorated
with upright leaves or with a guilloche band, either carved (in the Pantepoptes) or painted
(in the Chora), the carving as in classic work, serving only to emphasise the colour. The splay
is sometimes slightly hollowed, sometimes, as in the Chora, worked to an ogee.

Doors.--Doors often have elaborately moulded architraves and cornice. In S. John of the Studion
(p. 61), the oldest example, the jamb-moulding has a large half-round on the face, with small
ogees and fillets, all on a somewhat massive scale. The doors of S. Sophia are very similar.
The later mouldings are lighter but the half-round on the face remains a prominent feature.
It is now undercut and reduced in size, and resembles the Gothic moulding known as the bowtell.
This is combined with series of fillets, small ogees, and cavettos into jamb-moulds of considerable
richness. The cornices are often simply splayed or are formed of a series of ogees, fillets,
and cavettos. The jamb-mouldings are cut partly on a square and partly on a steep splayed line.
In some, the portion forming the ingo seems to have been regarded as a separated piece though
cut from the solid. If in the doors of the Pantokrator or the Pantepoptes the line of the inner
jamb be continued through the rebate, it will correspond on the outside with the bowtell moulding,
as though the inner and outer architrave had been cut from one square-edged block, placing
the bowtell at the angle and adding the rebate. This formation is not followed in S. John of
the Studion.

Carving.--Carving is slight, and is confined to capitals, string-courses, and the slabs which
filled in the lower parts of screens and windows. Fragments of such slabs are found everywhere.
They are carved with geometrical interlacing and floral patterns, often encircling a cross
or sacred monogram, or with simply a large cross. Such slabs may be seen still in position
in S. Sophia and in the narthex of S. Theodore. In the latter they are of verd antique, and
are finely carved on both sides. In later times the embargo on figure sculpture was considerably
relaxed. Little figures are introduced in the cornices of the eikon frames in the Diaconissa
(p. 186), and both in the parecclesion and the outer narthex of the Chora are found many small
busts of angels, saints, and warriors carved with great delicacy. The carving in the Chora
is the finest work of the kind excepting that in S. Sophia.

Capitals.--The development of the capital from the Roman form, which was suitable only for
the lintel, to the impost capital shaped to receive an arch has been well explained by Lethaby
and Swainson. According to these authors Byzantine capitals exhibit seven types.

I. The Impost capital.--It is found in SS. Sergius and Bacchus, the outer narthex of the Chora,
the inner narthex of S. Andrew and elsewhere. A modification of this type is used in windows.
It was employed throughout the style but especially in early times up to the sixth century,
and again in the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries.

II. The Melon type.--This is seen on the columns of the lower order in SS. Sergius and Bacchus
and on the columns of the narthex of S. Theodore, where they have been taken from an older
building. The melon capital was probably not in use after the sixth century.

III. The Bowl capital.--This type is used in the great order of S. Sophia at Constantinople.
It has been thought peculiar to this church, but the capitals from S. Stephen at Triglia in
Bithynia resemble those of S. Sophia closely. Only the peculiar volutes of the S. Sophia capitals
are absent.[34]

IV. The Byzantine or 'Pseudo-Ionic.'--This is found in the upper order of SS. Sergius and Bacchus,
and in the narthex of S. Andrew. It is an early type, not used after the sixth century, and
its occurrence in S. Andrew favours the early date assigned to that church.

V. The Bird and Basket.--Found in Constantinople, only in S. Sophia.

VI. The Byzantine Corinthian.--This is the commonest form of capital in the later churches,
and must have been in continuous use from the earliest date. It occurs in S. John of the Studion,
the Diaconissa, the Chora, and in many other churches. Here the classic form is accurately
adhered to, but, as the curved abacus was unsuitable to the arch, a large splayed abacus or
impost block is placed above the capital. It is a general feature of the Byzantine capital
that it projects at no point beyond the impost line of the arch, thus differing both from the
classic and the Gothic forms.

VII. The Windblown Acanthus.--This is found in the churches of Salonica and Ravenna. Three
examples are mentioned as seen in Constantinople, two near the Diaconissa, forming bases for
the posts of a wooden porch to a house; one is the cistern commonly known as the cistern of
Pulcheria.

Window Capitals.--In shafted window of several lights, the impost piers between the arches
are of the full thickness of the wall, but are very narrow from side to side. Similarly the
shafts are almost slabs placed across the wall, and sometimes, as in the Pammakaristos, are
carved on their narrow faces. The capitals are cubical, of slight projection at the sides,
but spreading widely at the ends, while the bases closely resemble capitals turned upside down.
As with columns, the joints at base and necking are bedded in sheet lead.

Floors.--The floors are usually of thick red brick tiles, some .31 cm. square, or, as in S.
Theodore, hexagonal, .34 cm. across by 45 cm. from point to point. Marble floors were used
when possible, inlaid with patterns, or in slabs surrounded by borders of coloured marbles,
as is still seen in a portion of the floor in the Pantokrator (Fig. 76).

Decoration.--Of the churches of Constantinople only S. Sophia, S. Mary Diaconissa, the South
Church of the Pantokrator, and the Chora, retain any considerable part of their original decoration.
The first is beyond our present scope, but from the general tone and atmosphere which still
linger there we are able to appreciate the effect of the same style of decoration where it
survives in less complete form.

The accepted method, as may be observed in the Chora and the Diaconissa, was to split marble
slabs so as to form patterns in the veining, and then to place them upright on the wall. It
is probable that the finest slabs were first placed in the centre points of the wall, and that
other slabs or borders were then arranged round them. The centre slabs in the Chora are of
exceptional beauty. The usual design consists of a dado of upright slabs surmounted by panelling
to the cornice level, the panels being outlined with plain or carved beads. In the Diaconissa
the notched dentil form is used for the beads; in the Chora, a 'bead and reel.' The arches
have radiating voussoirs, or, in the Diaconissa, a zigzag embattled design, found also in S.
Demetrius of Salonica, though two hundred years must have separated the buildings. In the Chora
the arch spandrils and cornice are inlaid with scroll and geometrical designs in black, white,
and coloured marbles.

The surfaces above the cornice and the interior of the domes gleamed with mosaic, representing,
as seen in the Chora, figures on a gold background. The mosaic cubes are small, measuring 5
mm. to 7 mm., and are closely set. This is about the same size as the mosaic cubes in S. Sophia,
but smaller than those at Ravenna, which measure about 10 mm.

Painting.--In the majority of churches this full decoration with marble and mosaic must have
been rendered impossible by the expense, and accordingly we find examples like the parecclesion
at the Chora decorated with painting, following exactly the tradition of marble and mosaic.
This painting is in tempera on the plaster, and is executed with a free and bold touch.

Conclusion.--Byzantine architecture is essentially an art of spaces. 'Architectural' forms,
as we are accustomed to think of them, are noticeably absent, but as compensation, colour was
an essential and inseparable part of the architecture. The builder provided great uninterrupted
spaces broken only by such lines and features as were structurally necessary--capitals, columns,
string-courses, and over these spaces the artist spread a glittering robe of marble or mosaic.
No school has ever expressed its structure more simply, or given fuller scope to the artist,
whether architect or painter.

Byzantine architecture is not only a school of construction, it is also a school of painting.
Most of the churches of Constantinople have unfortunately lost the latter part of their personality.
They are mere ghosts, their skeletons wrapped in a shroud of whitewash. Still the Greek artist
retained his skill to the last, and the decorative work of S. Saviour in the Chora will stand
comparison even with the similar work in S. Sophia.

In Byzantine times the greatness of S. Sophia tended to crush competition. No other ecclesiastical
building approached the 'Great Church.' But structural ability was only latent, and displayed
its old power again in the erection of the imperial mosques of the early Turkish Sultans, for
they too are monuments of Greek architectural genius.

The origins of Byzantine architecture have been discussed at great length by Strzygowski, Rivoira,
and many other able writers. Much work still remains to be done in the investigation of the
later Roman and early Byzantine work; nor does it seem probable that the difficult questions
of the Eastern or the Western origin of Byzantine art will ever be finally settled.

The beginnings of Byzantine architecture have never been satisfactorily accounted for. With
S. Sophia it springs almost at once into full glory; after S. Sophia comes the long decline.
It may, however, be noted that the 'endings' of Roman architecture are similarly obscure. Such
buildings as the Colosseum, in which the order is applied to an arched building, are evidently
transitional, the Roman construction and the Greek decoration, though joined, not being merged
into one perfect style. Even in the baths and other great buildings of Imperial Rome the decoration
is still Greek in form and not yet fully adapted to the arched construction. At Spalatro, in
such parts as the Porta Aurea, a developed style seems to be on the point of emerging, but
it is not too much to say that in no great Roman building do we find a perfect and homogeneous
style.

There is nothing in either the planning or the construction of S. Sophia which cannot be derived
from the buildings of the Roman Imperial period, with the exception of the pendentive, a feature
which had to be evolved before the dome could be used with freedom on any building plan on
a square. The great brick-concrete vaulted construction is that of the Roman baths, and with
this is united a system of decoration founded on the classic models, but showing no trace of
the Greek beam tradition which had ruled in Rome.

S. Sophia then may be regarded as the culminating point of one great Roman-Byzantine school,
of which the art of classic Rome shows the rise, and the later Byzantine art the decline. This
view is in accord with history, for Constantinople was New Rome, and here, if anywhere, we
should expect to find preserved the traditions of Old Rome.

The division of Western Mediaeval Architecture into the two schools of Romanesque and Gothic
presents a parallel case. It is now realised that no logical separation can be made between
the two so-called styles. Similarly we may continue to speak of the Classic Roman style and
of the Byzantine style, although the two really belong to one great era in the history of art.

[10] Eastern Palestine Memoirs, p. 172. A similar dome is given by Choisy, L'Art de bâtir chez
les Byzantins, Plate XV.

[11] De Vogüé, Syrie centrale, i. p. 45, Plate VII.

[12] Dürm, Handbuch, Part II. vol. iii. pp. 115, 149. A restored plan is given in Lethaby's
Mediaeval Art, p. 47.

[13] Orient oder Rom, p. 19.

[14] Kleinasien, p. 152.

[15] Kleinasien, p. 121 et seq.

[16] Oskar Wulf, Die Koimesiskirche in Nikaea, p. 71.

[17] H. Rott, Kleinasiensche Denkmäler, p. 329.

[18] Wulf, op. cit. p. 23.

[19] For local variations in late churches in Greece, see Traquair's 'Churches of Western Mani,'
Annual of British School at Athens, xv. 1908.

[20] Strzygowski, 'Das Etschmiadzin Evangeliar,' Byzant. Denkmäler, i., 1891.

[21] Ravanica, F. Kanitz, Serbiens byzantische Monumente, Wien, 1862.

[22] Pullan and Texier, S. Elias.

[23] G. Lampakis, Les Antiquités chrétiennes de la Grèce, Athens, 1902.

[24] Schultz and Barnsley, The Monastery of S. Luke at Stiris, p. 13, fig. 6.

[25] See, however, North Church in S. Mary, Panachrantos, p. 128.

[26] Strzygowski's views as to the early date of the drum-dome are not universally accepted.
The examples he produces seem rather octagons carried up from the ground to give a clearstory
under the dome than true drums interposed between the dome and its pendentives.

[27] Annual B.S.A. xii. 1905-6. See also Schultz and Barnsley, Monastery of S. Luke at Stiris.

[28] See p. 154.

[29] Dome of the Rock at Jerusalem. S. Mary Peribleptos; see Vida de Gran Tamorlan y itinerario
del Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo, p. 52.

[30] L'Art de bâtir chez les Byzantins, p. 57.

[31] Ibid. p. 99.

[32] Sancta Sophia, p. 219.

[33] L'Art de bâtir chez les Byzantins, p. 135.

[34] Hasluck, 'Bithynica,' Annual B.S.A. XIII. 1906-7.

CHAPTER II

THE CHURCH OF S. JOHN THE BAPTIST OF THE STUDION, EMIR AHOR JAMISSI

The mosque Emir Ahor Jamissi, situated in the quarter of Psamathia, near the modern Greek church
of S. Constantine, and at short distance from the Golden Gate (Yedi Koulé), is the old church
of S. John the Baptist, which was associated with the celebrated monastery of Studius, [Greek:
hê monê tou Stoudiou]. It may be reached by taking the train from Sirkiji Iskelessi to Psamathia
or Yedi Koulé.[35]

In favour of the identification of the building, there is, first, the authority of tradition,[36]
which in the case of a church so famous may be confidently accepted as decisive. In the next
place, all indications of the character and position of the Studion, however vague, point to
Emir Ahor Jamissi as the representative of that church. For the mosque presents the characteristic
features which belonged to the Studion as a basilica of the fifth century, and stands where
that sanctuary stood, in the district at the south-western angle of the city,[37] and on the
left hand of the street leading from S. Mary Peribleptos (Soulou Monastir) to the Golden Gate.[38]
Furthermore, as held true of the Studion, the mosque is in the vicinity of the Golden Gate,[39]
and readily accessible from a gate and landing (Narli Kapou) on the shore of the Sea of Marmora.[40]

According to the historian Theophanes,[41] the church was erected in the year 463 by the patrician
Studius, after whom the church and the monastery attached to it were named. He is described
as a Roman of noble birth and large means who devoted his wealth to the service of God,[42]
and may safely be identified with Studius who held the consulship in 454 during the reign of
Marcian.[43]

If we may trust the Anonymus,[44] the church erected by Studius replaced a sanctuary which
stood at one time, like the Chora, outside the city. Seeing the territory immediately beyond
the Constantinian fortifications was well peopled before its inclusion within the city limits
by Theodosius II., there is nothing improbable in the existence of such extra-mural sanctuaries,
and as most, if not all, of them would be small buildings, they would naturally require enlargement
or reconstruction when brought within the wider bounds of the capital. According to Suidas,[45]
the building was at first a parochial church; its attachment to a monastery was an after-thought
of its founder.

The monastery was large and richly endowed, capable of accommodating one thousand monks.[46]
Its first inmates were taken from a fraternity known as the Akoimeti, 'the sleepless'; so named
because in successive companies they celebrated divine service in their chapels day and night
without ceasing, like the worshippers in the courts of heaven.

          'Even thus of old
  Our ancestors, within the still domain
  Of vast cathedral or conventual church
  Their vigils kept: where tapers day and night
  On the dim altar burned continually.
  In token that the House was ever more
  Watching to God. The monks of the Studion should therefore not be identified
with the Akoimeti who took up such a determined and independent attitude
in the theological conflicts under Zeno, Basiliscus, and Justinian the
Great.[47]

In the course of its history the church underwent noteworthy repairs on two occasions. It was
first taken in hand for that purpose, soon after the middle of the eleventh century,[48] by
the Emperor Isaac Comnenus (1057-58), who was interested in the House because he and his brother
had received part of their education in that 'illustrious and glorious school of virtue.'[49]
What the repairs then made exactly involved is unfortunately not stated. But, according to
Scylitzes, they were so extensive that 'to tell in detail what the emperor and empress did
for the embellishment of the church would surpass the labour of Hercules.'[50] Probably they
concerned chiefly the decoration of the edifice.

The next repairs on record were made about the year 1290, in the reign of Andronicus II., by
his unfortunate brother Constantine Porphyrogenitus. Owing to the neglect of the building during
the Latin occupation the roof had fallen in, the cells of the monks had disappeared, and sheep
grazed undisturbed on the grass which covered the grounds. Constantine, rich, generous, fond
of popularity, did all in his power to restore the former glory of the venerated shrine. The
new roof was a remarkable piece of work; large sums were spent upon the proper accommodation
of the monks, and the grounds were enclosed within strong walls.[51]

Like other monastic institutions, the Studion suffered greatly at the hands of the iconoclast
emperors. Under Constantine Copronymus, indeed, the fraternity was scattered to the winds and
practically suppressed, so that only twelve old members of the House were able to take advantage
of the permission to return to their former home, upon the first restoration of eikons in 787
by the Empress Irene. Under these circumstances a company of monks, with the famous abbot Theodore
at their head, were eventually brought from the monastery of Saccudio to repeople the Studion,
and with their advent in 799 the great era in the history of the House began, the number of
the monks rising to seven hundred, if not one thousand.[52]

Theodore had already established a great reputation for sanctity and moral courage. For when
Constantine VI. repudiated the Empress Maria and married Theodote, one of her maids of honour,
Theodore, though the new empress was his relative, denounced the marriage and the priest who
had celebrated it, insisting that moral principles should govern the highest and lowest alike,
and for this action he had gladly endured scourging and exile. The Studion had, therefore,
a master who feared the face of no man, and who counted the most terrible sufferings as the
small dust of the balance when weighed against righteousness, and under him the House became
illustrious for its resistance to the tyranny of the civil power in matters affecting faith
and morals. When the Emperor Nicephorus ordered the restoration of the priest who had celebrated
the marriage of Constantine VI. with Theodote, not only did Theodore and his brother Joseph,
bishop of Thessalonica, and their venerable uncle Plato, endure imprisonment and exile, but
every monk in the Studion defied the emperor. Summoning the fraternity into his presence, Nicephorus
bade all who would obey his order go to the right, and all who dared to disobey him go to the
left. Not a single man went to the right. Under the very eyes of the despot all went to the
left, and in his wrath Nicephorus broke up the community and distributed the monks among various
monasteries. Upon the accession of Michael I. the exiled monks and Theodore were allowed indeed
to return to the Studion, peace being restored by the degradation of the priest who had celebrated
the obnoxious marriage. But another storm darkened the sky, when Leo V., the Armenian, in 813,
renewed the war against eikons. Theodore threw himself into the struggle with all the force
of his being as their defender. He challenged the right of the imperial power to interfere
with religious questions; he refused to keep silence on the subject; and on Palm Sunday, in
815, led a procession of his monks carrying eikons in their hands in triumph round the monastery
grounds. Again he was scourged and banished. But he could not be subdued. By means of a large
and active correspondence he continued an incessant and powerful agitation against the iconoclasts
of the day. Nor would he come to terms with Michael II., who had married a nun, and who allowed
the use of eikons only outside the capital. So Theodore retired, apparently a defeated man,
to the monastery of Acritas[53]; and there, 'on Sunday, 11 November 826, and about noon, feeling
his strength fail, he bade them light candles and sing the 119th psalm, which seems to have
been sung at funerals. At the words: "I will never forget Thy commandments, for with them Thou
hast quickened me," he passed away.' He was buried on the island of Prinkipo, but eighteen
years later, when eikons were finally restored in the worship of the Orthodox Church, his body
was transferred to the Studion, and laid with great ceremony in the presence of the Empress
Theodora beside the graves of his uncle Plato and his brother Joseph, in sign that after all
he had conquered.[54] Tandem hic quiescit.

  NOTE

  His remains were interred at the east end of the southern aisle,
  where his uncle Plato and his brother Joseph had been buried before
  him, and where Naucratius and Nicholas, his successors as abbots of
  the Studion, were laid to rest after him. [Greek: pros tô dexiô merei
  en tô kat' anatolas tou Prodromikou temenous pandoxô kai hierô tôn
  martyrôn sêkô, entha dê kai tou hosiou patros hêmôn Theodôrou hê
  paneukleês kai   pansebastos timia thêkê kathidrytai] (Vita S. Nicolai
  Studitae, Migne, P.G. tome 105).

  There, in fact, during the recent Russian exploration of the
  church, three coffins were discovered: one containing a single body,
  another four bodies, and another three bodies. The grave had
  evidently been disturbed at some time, for some of the bodies had no
  head, and all the coffins lay under the same bed of mortar. No
  marks were found by which to identify the persons whose remains
  were thus brought to view. But there can be no doubt that five of
  the bodies belonged to the five persons mentioned above. To whom
  the three other bodies belonged is a matter of pure conjecture. They
  might be the remains of three intimate friends of Theodore, viz.
  Athanasius, Euthemius, Timotheus, or more probably of the abbots,
  Sophronius (851-55), Achilles (858-63), Theodosius (863-64). Cf.
  Itin. russes, p. 100.

It would be a mistake, however, to think of Theodore only as a controversalist and defier of
the civil authority. He was a deeply religious man, a pastor of souls, and he revived the religious
and moral life of men, far and wide, not only in his own day, but long after his life on earth
had closed. He made the Studion the centre of a great spiritual influence, which never wholly
lost the impulse of his personality or the loftiness of his ideal. The forms of mediæval piety
have become antiquated, and they were often empty and vain, but we must not be blind to the
fact that they were frequently filled with a passion for holy living, and gave scope for the
creation of characters which, notwithstanding their limitations, produced great and good men.

Speaking of Eastern monks and abbots, especially during the eighth and ninth centuries, Mr.
Finlay, the historian, justly remarks that 'the manners, the extensive charity, and the pure
morality of these abbots, secured them the love and admiration of the people, and tended to
disseminate a higher standard of morality than had previously prevailed in Constantinople.
This fact must not be overlooked in estimating the various causes which led to the regeneration
of the Eastern Empire under the iconoclast emperors. While the Pope winked at the disorders
in the palace of Charlemagne, the monks of the East prepared the public mind for the dethronement
of Constantine VI. because he obtained an illegal divorce and formed a second marriage. The
corruption of monks and the irregularities prevalent in the monasteries of the West contrast
strongly with the condition of the Eastern monks.' Certainly to no one is this tribute of praise
due more than to the brotherhood in the monastery of Studius.

The monks of the Studion, like most Greek monks, lived under the rules prescribed by S. Basil
for the discipline of men who aspired to reach 'the angelic life.' Theodore, however, quickened
the spirit which found expression in those rules, and while inculcating asceticism in its extremest
form, showed greater consideration for the weakness of human nature. The penalties he assigned
for transgressions were on the whole less Draconian than those inflicted before his time.

According to the moral ideal cherished in the monastery, the true life of man was to regard
oneself but dust and ashes, and, like the angels, to be ever giving God thanks. If a monk repined
at such a lot, he was to castigate himself by eating only dry bread for a week and performing
500 acts of penance. The prospect of death was always to be held in view. Often did the corridors
of the monastery resound with the cry, 'We shall die, we shall die!' The valley of the shadow
of death was considered the road to life eternal. A monk could not call even a needle his own.
Nor were the clothes he wore his personal property. They were from time to time thrown into
a heap with the clothes of the other members of the House, and every monk then took from the
pile the garment most convenient to his hand. Female animals were forbidden the monastery.
A monk was not allowed to kiss his mother, not even at Easter, under penalty of excommunication
for fifty days. Daily he attended seven services, and had often to keep vigil all night long.
There was only one set meal a day; anything more in the way of food consisted of the fragments
which a monk laid aside from that meal. No meat was eaten unless by special permission for
reasons of health.

If a brother ate meat without permission he went without fish, eggs, and cheese for forty days.
The ordinary food consisted of vegetables cooked in oil. Fish, cheese, and eggs were luxuries.
Two, sometimes three, cups of wine were permitted. If a brother was so unfortunate as to break
a dish, he had to stand before the assembled monks at dinner time with covered head, and hold
the broken article in view of all in the refectory.[55] It was forbidden to a monk to feel
sad. Melancholy was a sin, and was to be overcome by prayer, one hundred and fifty genuflexions,
and five hundred Kyrie Eleisons a day. The monks were required to read regularly in the monastery
library.[56] The task of copying manuscripts occupied a place of honour, and was under strict
regulations. Fifty genuflexions were the penalty prescribed for not keeping one's copy clean;
one hundred and fifty such acts of penance for omitting an accent or mark of punctuation; thirty,
for losing one's temper and breaking his pen; fasting on dry bread was the fate of the copyist
guilty of leaving out any part of the original, and three days' seclusion for daring to trust
his memory instead of following closely the text before him.[57]

Ignatius of Smolensk[58] found Russian monks in the monastery employed in transcribing books
for circulation in Russia. Stephen of Novgorod[59] met two old friends from his town busy copying
the Scriptures. A good monastic scriptorium rendered an immense service; it did the work of
the printing-press.

Yet, notwithstanding all restrictions, men could be happy at the Studion. One of its inmates
for instance congratulates himself thus on his lot there, 'No barbarian looks upon my face;
no woman hears my voice. For a thousand years no useless ([Greek: apraktos]) man has entered
the monastery of Studius; none of the female sex has trodden its court. I dwell in a cell that
is like a palace; a garden, an oliveyard, and a vineyard surround me. Before me are graceful
and luxuriant cypress trees. On one hand is the city with its market-place; on the other, the
mother of churches and the empire of the world.'[60]

Hymnology was likewise cultivated at the Studion, many hymns of the Greek Church being composed
by Theodore and his brother Joseph.

Two abbots of the monastery became patriarchs: Antony (975),[61] and Alexius (1025),[62] the
latter on the occasion when he carried the great relic of the Studion, the head of John the
Baptist, to Basil II. lying at the point of death.[63]

At least as early as the reign of Alexius I. Comnenus, the abbot of the Studion held the first
place among his fellow-abbots in the city. His precedence is distinctly recognised in a Patriarchal
Act of 1381 as a right of old standing.[64]

The spirit of independence which characterized the monastery did not die with the abbot Theodore.
The monks of the Studion were the most stubborn opponents of the famous Photius who had been
elevated to the patriarchal throne directly from the ranks of the laity, and in the course
of the conflict between him and the monks during the first tenure of his office for ten years,
the abbots of the House were changed five times. Indeed, when Photius appointed Santabarenus
as the abbot, a man accused of being a Manichaean, and who professed to be able to communicate
with departed spirits, many of the monks, if not all of them, left their home. Nor was this
the last assertion of the freedom of conscience for which this monastery was distinguished,
and which makes it memorable in history.

Like other monasteries the Studion often served as a place of correction for offenders whom
it was expedient to render harmless without recourse to the extreme rigour of the law. Santabarenus,
who has just been mentioned, was sent in his wild youth, after narrowly escaping a sentence
of death at the hands of the Caesar Bardas, to this monastery in the hope of being reformed
in the orthodox atmosphere of the House. In the reign of Leo VI. (826-912), an official named
Mousikos was sent hither to be cured of the propensity to accept bribes.[65] In 912, Gregoras
and Choirosphacta were obliged to join the brotherhood to repent at leisure for having favoured
the attempt of Constantine Ducas, domestic of the Scholae, to usurp the throne of Constantine
VII. Porphyrogenitus when seven years of age.[66]

Several emperors sought the shelter of the Studion as a refuge from danger, or as a retreat
from the vanity of the world. Thither, in 1041, Michael V. and his uncle Constantine fled from
the popular fury excited by their deposition of the Empress Zoe and the slaughter of three
thousand persons in the defence of the palace. The two fugitives made for the monastery by
boat, and betook themselves to the church for sanctuary. But as soon as the place of their
concealment became known, an angry crowd forced a way into the building to wreak vengeance
upon them, and created a scene of which Psellus has left us a graphic account. Upon hearing
the news of what was going on, he and an officer of the imperial guard mounted horse and galloped
to the Studion. A fierce mob was madly attempting to pull down the structure, and it was with
the utmost difficulty that the two friends managed to enter the church and make their way to
the altar. The building seemed full of wild animals, glaring with eyes on fire at their victims,
and making the air resound with the most terrible cries. Michael was on his knees clasping
the holy table; Constantine stood on the right; both were dressed like monks, and their features
were so transformed by terror as to be almost beyond recognition. The spectacle of greatness
thus brought low was so pathetic that Psellus burst into tears and sobbed aloud. But the crowd
only grew more fierce, and drew nearer and nearer to the fugitives as though to rend them in
pieces. Only a superstitious dread restrained it from laying hands upon them in a shrine so
sacred and venerated. The uproar lasted for hours, the mob content meanwhile with striking
terror and making flight impossible. At length, late in the afternoon, the prefect of the city
appeared upon the scene, accompanied by soldiers and followed by large crowds of citizens.
He came with instructions to bring Michael and Constantine out of the church. In vain did he
try the effect of mild words and promises of a gentle fate. The fallen emperor and his uncle
clung to the altar more desperately. The prefect then gave orders that the two wretched men
should be dragged forth by main force. They gripped the altar yet more tightly, and in piteous
tones invoked the aid of all the eikons in the building. The scene became so heartrending that
most of the spectators interfered on behalf of the victims of misfortune, and only by giving
solemn assurance that they would not be put to death was the prefect allowed to proceed to
their arrest. Michael and Constantine were then dragged by the feet as far as the Sigma, above
S. Mary Peribleptos (Soulou Monastir), and after having their eyes burnt out were banished
to different monasteries, to muse on the vanity of human greatness and repent of their misdeeds.[67]

The Studion appears in the final rupture of the Eastern and Western Churches.[68] The immediate
occasion was a letter sent by the Archbishop of Achrida, in 1053, to the Bishop of Trani, condemning
the Church of Rome for the use of unleavened bread in the administration of the Holy Communion,
and for allowing a fast on Saturday. Nicetas Stethetos (Pectoratus), a member of the House
renowned for his asceticism, and for his courage in reproving the scandalous connection of
Constantine IX. with Sklerena, wrote a pamphlet, in Latin, in which, in addition to the charges
against Rome made by the Archbishop of Achrida, the enforced celibacy of the clergy was denounced.
The pamphlet was widely circulated by the Patriarch Kerularios, who wished to bring the dispute
between the Churches to an issue. But the emperor not being prepared to go so far, invited
the Pope to send three legates to Constantinople to settle the differences which disturbed
the Christian world. Cardinal Humbert, one of the legates, replied to Nicetas in the most violent
language of theological controversy, and to bring matters to a conclusion an assembly, which
was attended by the Emperor Constantine, his court, and the Papal legates, met at the Studion
on the 24th of June 1054. A Greek translation of the pamphlet composed by Nicetas was then
read, and after the discussion of the subject, Nicetas retracted his charges and condemned
all opponents of the Roman Church. His pamphlet was, moreover, thrown into the fire by the
emperor's orders, and on the following day he called upon the Papal legates, who were lodged
at the palace of the Pegé (Baloukli), and was received into the communion of the Church he
had lately denounced. But the patriarch was not so fickle or pliant. He would not yield an
iota, and on the 15th of July 1054 Cardinal Humbert laid on the altar of S. Sophia the bull
of excommunication against Kerularios and all his followers, which has kept Western and Eastern
Christendom divided to this day.

When Michael VII. (1067-78) saw that the tide of popular feeling had turned against him in
favour of Nicephorus Botoniates, he meekly retired to this House, declining to purchase a crown
with cruelty by calling upon the Varangian guards to defend his throne with their battle-axes.
Michael was appointed bishop of Ephesus, but after paying one visit to his diocese he returned
to Constantinople and took up his abode in the monastery of Manuel (p. 257).[69]

To the Studion, where he had studied in his youth and which he had embellished, the Emperor
Isaac Comnenus retired, when pleurisy and the injuries he received while boar-hunting made
him realize that he had but a short time to live. In fact, he survived his abdication for one
year only, but during that period he proved a most exemplary monk, showing the greatest deference
to his abbot, and besides performing other lowly duties acted as keeper of the monastery gate.
How thoroughly he was reconciled to the exchange of a throne for a cell appears in the remark
made to his wife, who had meantime taken the veil at the Myrelaion, 'Acknowledge that when
I gave you the crown I made you a slave, and that when I took it away I set you free.' His
widow commemorated his death annually at the Studion, and on the last occasion surprised the
abbot by making a double offering, saying, 'I may not live another year,' a presentiment which
proved true. According to her dying request, Aecatherina was buried in the cemetery of the
Studion, 'as a simple nun, without any sign to indicate that she was born a Bulgarian princess
and had been a Roman empress.'[70]

On the occasion of the triumphal entry of Michael Palaeologus into the city in 1261, the emperor
followed the eikon of the Theotokos Hodegetria, to whom the recovery of the Empire was attributed,
on foot as far as the Studion; and there, having placed the eikon in the church, he mounted
horse to proceed to S. Sophia.[71]

One of the sons of Sultan Bajazet was buried at the Studion.[72] The prince had been sent by
the Sultan as a hostage to the Byzantine Court, and being very young attended school in Constantinople
with John, the son of the Emperor Manuel. There he acquired a taste for Greek letters, and
became a convert to the Christian faith; but for fear of the Sultan's displeasure he was long
refused permission to be baptized. Only when the young man lay at the point of death, in 1417,
a victim to the plague raging in the city, was the rite administered, his schoolmate and friend
acting as sponsor.

A tombstone from the cemetery of the monastery is built into the Turkish wall at the north-eastern
corner of the church. It bears an epitaph to the following effect:--'In the month of September
of the year 1387, fell asleep the servant of God, Dionysius the Russian, on the sixth day of
the month.' The patrician Bonus, who defended the city against the Avars in 627, while the
Emperor Heraclius was absent dealing with the Persians, was buried at the Studion.[73]

On the festival of the Decapitation of S. John the Baptist, the emperor attended service at
the Studion in great state. Early in the morning the members of the senate assembled therefore
at the monastery, while dignitaries of an inferior rank took their place outside the gate (Narli
Kapou) in the city walls below the monastery, and at the pier at the foot of the steep path
that descends from that gate to the shore of the Sea of Marmora, all awaiting the arrival of
the imperial barge from the Great Palace. Both sides of the path were lined by monks of the
House, holding lighted tapers, and as soon as the emperor disembarked, the officials at the
pier and the crowd of monks, with the abbot at their head, swinging his silver censer of fragrant
smoke, led the way up to the gate. There a halt was made for the magistri, patricians, and
omphikialioi ([Greek: omphikialioi]) to do homage to the sovereign and join the procession,
and then the long train wended its way through the open grounds attached to the monastery ([Greek:
dia tou exaerou]), and through covered passages ([Greek: dia tôn ekeise diabatikôn]),[74] until
it reached the south-eastern end of the narthex ([Greek: eiserchontai dia tou pros anatolikên
dexiou merous tou narthêkos]). Before the entrance at that point, the emperor put on richly
embroidered robes, lighted tapers, and then followed the clergy into the church, to take his
stand at the east end of the south aisle. The most important act he performed during the service
was to incense the head of John the Baptist enshrined on the right hand of the bema. At the
conclusion of the Office of the day, he was served by the monks with refreshments under the
shade of the trees in the monastery grounds ([Greek: anadendradion]); and, after a short rest,
proceeded to his barge with the same ceremonial as attended his arrival, and returned to the
palace.[75]

The church was converted into a mosque in the reign of Bajazet II. (1481-1512) by the Sultan's
equerry, after whom it is now named.

Architectural Features

The church of S. John the Baptist of the Studion is a basilica, and is of special interest
because the only surviving example of that type in Constantinople, built while the basilica
was the dominant form of ecclesiastical architecture in the Christian world. It has suffered
severely since the Turkish conquest, especially from the fire which, in 1782, devastated the
quarter in which it stands, and from the fall of its roof, a few winters ago, under an unusual
weight of snow. Still, what of it remains and the descriptions of its earlier state given by
Gyllius, Gerlach, and other visitors, enable us to form a fair idea of its original appearance.
The recent explorations conducted by the Russian Institute at Constantinople have also added
much to our knowledge of the building.

It is the oldest church fabric in the city, and within its precincts we stand amid the surroundings
of early Christian congregations. For, partly in original forms, partly in imitations, we still
find here a basilica's characteristic features: the atrium, or quadrangular court before the
church; on three of its sides surrounded by cloisters; in its centre, the marble phialé or
fountain, for the purification of the gathering worshippers; the narthex, a pillared porch
along the western façade, where catechumens and penitents, unworthy to enter the sanctuary
itself, stood afar off; the interior area divided into nave and aisles by lines of columns;
the semicircular apse at the eastern extremity of the nave for altar and clergy; and galleries
on the other sides of the building to provide ample accommodation for large assemblies of faithful
people.

  NOTE

  Gyllius (De Top. Constant. l. iv. c. 9) describes the church as
  follows: 'Quod (monasterium) nunc non extat; aedes extat, translata
  in religionem Mametanam; in cujus vestibulo sunt quatuor columnae
  cum trabeatione egregie elaborata; in interiore parte aedium
  utrinque columnae sunt septem virides, nigris maculis velut fragmentis
  alterius generis lapidum insertis distinctae, quarum   perimeter est
  sex pedum et sex digitorum. Denique earum ratio capitulorum,
  epistyliorum opere Corinthio elaborata, eadem est quae columnarum
  vestibuli. Supra illas sex existunt totidem columnae in parte aedis
  superiore. In area aedis Studianae est cisterna, cujus lateritias
  cameras sustinent viginti tres columnae excelsae Corinthiae.'

  Gerlach (Tagebuch, p. 217; cf. pp. 359, 406) describes it under
  the style of the church of S. Theodore, for he confounds the monastery
  of Studius with that of the Peribleptos at Soulou Monastir: 'Das ist
  eine sehr hohe und weite Kirche (wie die unsern); hat zwei
  Reyhen Marmel-steiner Säulen mit Corinthischen Knäufen (capitellis),
  auff einer jeden Seiten sieben; auff deren jeden wieder ein andere
  Säule stehet. Der Boden ist mit lauter buntem von Vögeln und anderen
  Thieren gezierten Marmel auff das schönste gepflästert.' (This is a
  very lofty and broad church (like our churches). It has two rows of
  marble columns with Corinthian capitals, on either side seven; over
  each of which stands again another column. The floor is paved in the
  most beautiful fashion entirely with variegated marble, adorned with
  figures of birds and other animals.)

  Choiseul Gouffier (Voyage pittoresque en Grèce, ii. p. 477), French
  ambassador to the Sublime Porte (1779-92), speaks of the church in
  the following terms: 'Dans l'intérieur sont de chaque côté sept
  colonnes de vert antique, surmontées d'une frise de marbre blanc
  parfaitement sculptée, qui contient un ordre plus petit et très bien
  proportionné avec le premier. Je ne sais de quel marbre sont ces
  secondes colonnes, parce que les Turcs qui défigurent tout ont imaginé
  de les couvrir de chaux.'

  Ph. Bruun (Constantinople, ses sanctuaires et ses reliques au
  commencement du XVe siècle, Odessa, 1883) identifies with the
  Studion one of the churches dedicated to S. John, which Ruy Gonzalez
  de Clavijo visited in Constantinople when on his way to the Court of
  Tamerlane. But that church was 'a round church without corners,' 'una
  quadra redonda sin esquinas,' and had forty-eight columns of verd
  antique, 'veinte é quatro marmoles de jaspe verde, ... é otros veinte
  é quatro marmoles de jaspe verde.' What church the Spanish ambassador
  had in view, if his description is correct, it is impossible to say.
  No other writer describes such a church in Constantinople. See the
  Note at the end of this chapter for the full text of the ambassador's
  description.

The northern wall of the atrium is original, as the crosses in brick formed in its brickwork
show. The trees which shade the court, the Turkish tombstones beneath them, and the fountain
in the centre, combine to form a very beautiful approach to the church, and reproduce the general
features and atmosphere of its earlier days.

The narthex is divided into three bays, separated by heavy arches. It is covered by a modern
wooden roof, but shows no signs of ever having been vaulted. The centre bay contains in its
external wall a beautiful colonnade of four marble columns, disposed, to use a classical term,
'in antis.' They stand on comparatively poor bases, but their Corinthian capitals are exceptionally
fine, showing the richest Byzantine form of that type of capital. The little birds under the
angles of the abaci should not be overlooked.

The entablature above the columns, with its architrave, frieze, and cornice, follows the classic
form very closely, and is enriched in every member. Particularly interesting are the birds,
the crosses, and other figures in the spaces between the modillions and the heavy scroll of
the frieze. The drill has been very freely used throughout, and gives a pleasant sparkle to
the work.

In the second and fourth intercolumniations there are doorways with moulded jambs, lintels,
and cornices, but only the upper parts of these doorways are now left open to serve as windows.

The cornice of the entablature returns westwards at its northern and southern ends, indicating
that a colonnade, with a smaller cornice, ran along the northern and southern sides of the
atrium, if not also along its western side. The cloisters behind the colonnades, were connected
at their west end with the narthex by two large and elaborately moulded doorways still in position.

Five doors lead from the narthex into the church; three opening into the nave, the others into
the aisles.

The interior of the church, now almost a total ruin, was divided into nave and two aisles by
colonnades of seven columns of verd antique marble. But only six of the original columns have
survived the injuries which the building has sustained; the other columns are Turkish, and
are constructed of wood with painted plaster covering.

The colonnades supported an entablature of late Corinthian type, which, as the fall of the
Turkish plaster that once covered it has revealed, had the same moulding as the entablature
in the narthex. The architrave was in three faces, with a small bead ornament to the upper
two, and finished above with a small projecting moulding. The frieze was an ogee, bellied in
the lower part. Of the cornice only the bed mould, carved with a leaf and tongue, remains.

Above each colonnade stood another range of seven[76] columns connected, probably, by arches.
Along the northern, southern, and western sides of the church were galleries constructed of
wood. Those to the north and south still exist in a ruined condition, and many of the stone
corbels which supported the beams remain in the walls. Only scanty vestiges of the gallery
above the narthex can be now distinguished. Its western wall, the original outer wall of the
upper part of the church, has totally disappeared. Its eastern arcade has been replaced by
the Turkish wall which constitutes the present outer wall of that part of the church. But beyond
either end of that wall are visible, though built up, the old openings by which the gallery
communicated with its companion galleries; while to the west of the wall project the ragged
ends of the Byzantine walls which formed the gallery's northern and southern sides. The nave
rose probably to a greater height than it does now, and had a roof at a higher level than the
roofing of the aisles. It doubtless resembled the basilican churches at Salonica, either with
clearstory windows, as in S. Demetrius, or without such windows, as in Eski Juma Jamissi.

The nave terminates in a large apse, semicircular within and showing three sides on the exterior.
Only the lower part is original; the Turkish superstructure is lower and on a smaller scale
than the Byzantine portion it has replaced. There are no side chapels. Under the bema the Russian
explorers discovered a small cruciform crypt. The large quantity of mosaic cubes found in the
church during the recent Russian excavations proves that the church was decorated with mosaics,
while the remains of iron plugs in the western wall for holding marble slabs show that the
building had the customary marble revetment. But what is curious is to find the mortar pressed
over the face of the stones, and broad decorative joints formed by ruled incised lines and
colour. Mr. W. S. George suggests that this was a temporary decoration executed pending some
delay in the covering of the walls with marble. He also thinks that the importance given to
the joint in late Byzantine work and in Turkish work may be a development from such early treatment
of mortar.

The floor of the church was paved with pieces of marble arranged in beautiful patterns, in
which figures of animals and scenes from classic mythology were inlaid. Gerlach[77] noticed
the beauty of the pavement, and Salzenberg[78] represents a portion of it in his work on S.
Sophia. But the members of the Russian Institute of Constantinople have had the good fortune
to bring the whole pavement to light.

A noticeable feature is the number of doors to the church, as in S. Irene. Besides the five
doors already mentioned, leading into the interior from the narthex, there is a door at the
eastern end of each aisle, and close to each of these doors is found both in the southern and
northern walls of the building an additional door surmounted by a window. The latter doors
and their windows have been walled up.

The exterior is in two stories, corresponding to the ground floor and the galleries. It has
two ranges of eight large semicircular-headed windows in the northern and southern walls, some
of them modified, others built up, since the building became a mosque. The five windows in
the gable of the western wall are, like the wall itself, Turkish. Pilasters are placed at the
angles and at the apse.

On the south side of the church is a cistern, the roof of which rests on twenty-three columns
crowned by beautiful Corinthian capitals.

  NOTE

  The full text of the description given of the church of S. John,
  mentioned by Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo, reads as follows:--

  É la primera parte (puerta?) de la Iglesia es muy alta é de obra rica,
  é delante desta puerta está un grand corral y luego al cuerpo de la
  Iglesia, é el qual cuerpo es una quadra redonda sin esquinas muy
  alta, é es cerrada al derredor de tres grandes naves, que son cubiertas
  da un cielo ellas y la quadra. And before this door is a large court beside the body of
  the church; and the said body is a round hall without corners (or
  angles), very lofty, and enclosed round about by three large naves,
  which are covered, they and the hall, by one roof. And it (the
  church) has in it seven altars; and the roof of the hall and naves and
  the walls are of mosaic work very richly wrought, in which are
  (depicted) many histories. And the (roof of the) hall is placed on
  twenty-four marble columns of green jasper (verd antique). And
  the said naves have galleries, and the galleries open on the body of
  the church, and these have other twenty-four marble columns of
  green jasper; and the roof of the hall and the walls are of mosaic
  work. And the elevated walks of the naves open over the body
  of the church,[80] and where a balustrade should be found there are
  small marble columns of jasper.

Outside the church, adds the ambassador, was a beautiful chapel dedicated to S. Mary, remarkable
for its mosaics.

[35] The Latin thesis of Eugenius Marin, De Studio coenobio Constantinopolitano, Paris, 1897,
is a most useful work.

[36] Gyllius, De top. C.P. p. 313.

[37] Itinéraires russes en Orient, p. 306, traduits pour la Société de l'Orient Latin par Mdme.
B. de Khitrovo.

[38] Ibid. p. 231. For all questions concerning the walls of the city I refer, once for all,
to my work, Byzantine Constantinople: the Walls and adjoining Historical Sites, published in
1889 by John Murray, London.

[39] Paschal Chronicle, p. 726.

[40] Constantine Porphyrogenitus, De ceremoniis, pp. 462-3.

[41] P. 175. But according to Epigram 4 in the Anthologia Graeca epigrammatum (Stadt-Mueller,
1894) Studius became consul after the erection of the church and as a reward for its erection.
Under the heading [Greek: eis ton naon tou Prodromou en tois Stoudiou] it says [Greek: touton
Iôannê, Christou megalô theraponti, Stoudios aglaon oikon edeimato. karpalimôs de tôn kamôn
heureto misthon helôn hypatêida rhabdon.] In Suidas is a similar epigram in honour of the erection
by Studius of another church; [Greek: tou archistratêgou Nakôleias] in Phrygia.

[42] Theodori Studitae vita, Migne, Patrologia Graeca, tome 99.

[43] Pasch. Chron. p. 591.

[44] Banduri, i. p. 54. In the recent excavations carried on in the Studion by the Russian
Archaeological Institute of Constantinople, the foundations of an earlier building were discovered
below the floor of the church. The line of the foundations ran through the church from north-east
to south-west, parallel to the wall of the cistern to the south-west of the church. Perhaps
it is too soon to determine the character of the earlier building.

[45] S.V.: [Greek: hê tôn Stouditôn monê proteron kai katholikês ekklêsias ên, hysteron de
metêlthen eis monên.] The reading is doubtful. A proposed emendation is, [Greek: tôn katholikôn
ekklêsia ên.]

[46] Codinus, De aed. p. 102.

[47] Theophanes, pp. 187, 218; Evagrius, cc. 18, 19, 21. In the list of the abbots who subscribed
one of the documents connected with the Synod held at Constantinople in 536, the two establishments
are clearly distinguished. They are distinguished also by Antony of Novgorod in 1200, Itin.
russes, pp. 97, 100.

[48] Seylitzes, p. 650.

[49] Nicephorus Bryennius, p. 181.

[50] Cedrenus, ii. p. 650.

[51] Nicephorus Gregoras, i. p. 190; Stephen of Novgorod, who saw the church in 1350, refers
to its 'very lofty roof,' Itin. russes, p. 123.

[52] Theoph. p. 747; Life of S. Theodore, Migne, P.G. tome 99.

[53] The modern Touzla at the northern head of the gulf of Nicomedia. See the articles by Mr.
Siderides and Mr. Meliopoulos in the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of Constantinople, vol.
xxxi., 1907-8.

[54] The English reader should consult the Life of Theodore of Studium, by Miss Alice Gardner,
for an excellent presentation of the man and his work.

[55] According to Stephen of Novgorod (Itin. russes, p. 121) the refectory was an unusually
fine hall, situated near the sea.

[56] At a short distance beyond the north-eastern end of the church are some ruined vaults
which the Turks have named Kietab Hané, the library. See Plate III.

[57] For the Constitution and Epitamia of the Studion, see Migne, P.G. tome 99.

[58] Itin. russes, p. 136.

[59] Ibid. p. 122 'on envoyait beaucoup de livres de ce couvent en Russie, des règlements,
des triodions et autres livres.' Many members of the Studion were Russians.

[60] Marin, De Studio, p. 11. See Marin, Les Moines de Constantinople, for the monastic institutions
of the city in general.

[61] Cedren. ii. p. 147.

[62] Ibid. p. 212.

[63] Ibid. p. 479.

[64] Acta et diplomata patriarchatus Constantinop. t. ii. p. 12 [Greek: en tais hierais te
kai synodikais syneleusesi; prôton men gar pantôn ton archimandritên tôn Stoudiou kai ho chronos
katestêse kai to dikaion auto.]

[65] Theoph. Cont. p. 362.

[66] Ibid. p. 384.

[67] Glycas, p. 592; Cedrenus, ii. p. 539; Psellus, pp. 87-93; Byzantine Texts, edited by Prof.
Bury; cf.

[68] See Cedrenus, ii. p. 555; Will, Commemoratio brevis, p. 150; Schlumberger, op. cit. chapitre
viii.

[69] Attaliotes, pp. 304, 306; Glycas, p. 617; Scylitzes, pp. 738-39.

[70] Scylitzes, pp. 649-51; Bryennius, p. 20.

[71] Acropolita, p. 197.

[72] Ducas, p. 99 [Greek: plêsion tou naou entos tês pylês].

[73] Pasch. Chron. pp. 726-27.

[74] Mr. Pantchenko of the Russian Institute at Constantinople has found evidence that cloisters
stood along the east and south sides of the great cistern to the south-west of the church.

[75] Constant. Porphyr. De cer. ii. pp. 562-3.

[76] Gyllius says six.

[77] See passage from his Tagebuch quoted on page 50.

[78] Altchristliche Baudenkmäler von Konstantinopel, Blatt iv.

[79] Vida del Gran Tamorlan y itinerario, pp. 55-56 (Madrid, 1782).

[80] I.e. From the elevated floors of the galleries one could look over the church.

CHAPTER III

THE CHURCH OF SS. SERGIUS AND BACCHUS, KUTCHUK AYA SOFIA

On the level tract beside the Sea of Marmora, to the south of the Hippodrome, and a few paces
to the north-west of Tchatlady Kapou, stands the ancient church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus.
It is commonly known as the mosque Kutchuk Aya Sofia, Little S. Sophia, to denote at once its
likeness and its unlikeness to the great church of that name. It can be reached by either of
the two streets descending from the Hippodrome to the sea, or by taking train to Koum Kapou,
and then walking eastwards for a short distance along the railroad.

There can be no doubt in regard to its identity. For the inscription on the entablature of
the lower colonnade in the church proclaims the building to be a sanctuary erected by the Emperor
Justinian and his Empress Theodora to the honour of the martyr Sergius. The building stands,
moreover, as SS. Sergius and Bacchus stood, close to the site of the palace and the harbour
of Hormisdas.[81] When Gyllius visited the city the Greek community still spoke of the building
as the church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus--'Templum Sergii et Bacchi adhuc superest, cujus nomen
duntaxat Graeci etiam nunc retinent.'[82]

The foundations of the church were laid in 527, the year of Justinian's accession,[83] and
its erection must have been completed before 536, since it is mentioned in the proceedings
of the Synod held at Constantinople in that year.[84] According to the Anonymus, indeed, the
church and the neighbouring church of SS. Peter and Paul were founded after the massacre in
the Hippodrome which suppressed the Nika Riot. But the Anonymus is not a reliable historian.[85]

The church did not stand alone. Beside it and united with it, Justinian built also a church
dedicated to the Apostles Peter and Paul,[86] so that the two buildings formed a double sanctuary,
having a common court and a continuous narthex. They were equal in size and in the richness
of the materials employed in their construction, and together formed one of the chief ornaments
of the palace and the city. There was, however, one striking difference between them; SS. Sergius
and Bacchus was a domical church, while SS. Peter and Paul was a basilica. Styles of ecclesiastical
architecture destined soon to blend together in the grandeur and beauty of S. Sophia were here
seen converging towards the point of their union, like two streams about to mingle their waters
in a common tide. A similar combination of these styles occurs at Kalat-Semân in the church
of S. Symeon Stylites, erected towards the end of the fifth century, where four basilicas forming
the arms of a cross are built on four sides of an octagonal court.[87]

The saints to whom the church was dedicated were brother officers in the Roman army, who suffered
death in the reign of Maximianus,[88] and Justinian's particular veneration for them was due,
it is said, to their interposition in his behalf at a critical moment in his career. Having
been implicated, along with his uncle, afterwards Justin I., in a plot against the Emperor
Anastasius, he lay under sentence of death for high treason; but on the eve of his execution,
a formidable figure, as some authorities maintain,[89] or as others affirm, the saints Sergius
and Bacchus, appeared to the sovereign in a vision and commanded him to spare the conspirators.
Thus Justinian lived to reach the throne, and when the full significance of his preservation
from death became clear in the lustre of the imperial diadem, he made his deliverers the object
of his devout regard. Indeed, in his devotion to them he erected other sanctuaries to their
honour also in other places of the Empire.[90] Still this church, founded early in his reign,
situated beside his residence while heir-apparent, and at the gates of the Great Palace, and
withal a gem of art, must be considered as Justinian's special thankoffering for his crown.

With the church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus was associated a large monastery known, after the
locality in which it stood, as the monastery of Hormisdas, [Greek: en tois Hormisdou]. It was
richly endowed by Justinian.[91]

  NOTE

  There is some obscurity in regard to the church of SS. Peter and Paul.
  According to Theophanes,[92] the first church in Constantinople built
  in honour of those apostles was built at the suggestion of a Roman
  senator Festus, who on visiting the eastern capital, in 499, was
  astonished to find no sanctuary there dedicated to saints so eminent
  in Christian history, and so highly venerated by the Church of the
  West. As appears from a letter addressed in 519 to Pope Hormisdas by
  the papal representative at the court of Constantinople, a church of
  that dedication had been recently erected by Justinian while holding
  the office of Comes Domesticorum under his uncle Justin I. 'Your son,'
  says the writer, 'the magnificent Justinian, acting as becomes his
  faith, has erected a basilica of the Holy Apostles, in which he wishes
  relics of the martyr S. Laurentius should be placed.' 'Filius vester
  magnificus vir Justinianus, res convenientes fidei suae faciens,
  basilicam sanctorum Apostolorum in qua desiderat Sancti Laurentii
  martyris reliquias esse, constituit.'[93] We have also a letter to the
  Pope from Justinian himself, in which the writer, in order to glorify
  the basilica which he had built in honour of the apostles in his
  palace, begs for some links of the chains which had bound the apostles
  Peter and Paul, and for a portion of the gridiron upon which
  S. Laurentius was burnt to death.[94] The request was readily granted
  in the same year.

  The description of the basilica, as situated in the palace then
  occupied by Justinian, leaves no room for doubt that the sanctuary to
  which the letters just quoted refer was the church of SS. Peter and
  Paul which Procopius describes as near ([Greek: para]) the palace of
  Hormisdas. In that case the church of SS. Peter and Paul was built
  before the church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus, for the inscription on
  the entablature in the latter church, not to mention Cedrenus,
  distinctly assigns the building to the time when Justinian and
  Theodora occupied the throne. This agrees with the fact that
  Procopius[95] records the foundation of SS. Peter and Paul before
  that of SS. Sergius and Bacchus, and if this were all he did the
  matter would be clear. But, unfortunately, this is not all Procopius
  has done. For after recording the erection of SS. Sergius and
  Bacchus, he proceeds to say that Justinian subsequently
  ([Greek: epeita]) joined another ([Greek: allo]) church,[96] a
  basilica, to the sanctuary dedicated to those martyrs, thus leaving
  upon the reader's mind the impression that the basilica was a later
  construction. To whom that basilica was consecrated Procopius does
  not say. Was that basilica the church of SS. Peter and Paul which
  Procopius mentioned before recording the erection of SS. Sergius and
  Bacchus? Is he speaking of two or of three churches? The reply to this
  question must take into account two facts as beyond dispute: first,
  that the church of SS. Peter and Paul, as the letters cited above make
  clear, was earlier than the church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus;
  secondly, that the basilica united to the latter sanctuary was
  dedicated to the two great apostles; for scenes which, according to one
  authority,[97] occurred in S. Peter's took place, according to another
  authority,[98] in the church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus. In the face of
  these facts, Procopius is either mistaken in regard to the relative age
  of the two sanctuaries, or he has not expressed his meaning as clearly
  as he might have done. To suppose that two sanctuaries dedicated to the
  great apostles were built by Justinian within a short time of each
  other in the same district, one within the palace, the other outside
  the palace, is a very improbable hypothesis. The question on which side
  of SS. Sergius and Bacchus the basilica of SS. Peter and Paul stood,
  seems decided by the fact that there is more room for a second building
  on the north than on the south of Kutchuk Agia Sofia. Furthermore,
  there are traces of openings in the north wall of the church which
  could serve as means of communication between the two adjoining
  buildings. Ebersolt, however, places SS. Peter and Paul on the south
  side of SS. Sergius and Bacchus.[99]

A remarkable scene was witnessed in the church in the course of the controversy which raged
around the writings known in ecclesiastical history as 'The Three Chapters,' the work of three
theologians tainted, it was alleged, with the heretical opinions of Nestorius. Justinian associated
himself with the party which condemned those writings, and prevailed upon the majority of the
bishops in the East to subscribe the imperial decree to that effect. But Vigilius, the Pope
of the day, and the bishops in the West, dissented from that judgment, because the authors
of the writings in question had been acquitted from the charge of heresy by the Council of
Chalcedon. To condemn them after that acquittal was to censure the Council and reflect upon
its authority. Under these circumstances Justinian summoned Vigilius to Constantinople in the
hope of winning him over by the blandishments or the terrors of the court of New Rome. Vigilius
reached the city on the 25th of January 547, and was detained in the East for seven years in
connection with the settlement of the dispute. He found to his cost that to decide an intricate
theological question, and above all to assert 'the authority of S. Peter vested in him' against
an imperious sovereign and the jealousy of Eastern Christendom, was no slight undertaking.
Pope and Emperor soon came into violent collision, and fearing the consequences Vigilius sought
sanctuary in the church of S. Peter[100] as he styles it, but which Byzantine writers[101]
who record the scene name S. Sergius.

Justinian was not the man to stand the affront. He ordered the praetor of the city to arrest
the Pope and conduct him to prison. But when that officer appeared, Vigilius grasped the pillars
of the altar and refused to surrender. Thereupon the praetor ordered his men to drag the Pope
out by main force. Seizing Vigilius by his feet, holding him by his beard and the hair of his
head, the men pulled with all their might, but they had to deal with a powerful man, and he
clung fast to the altar with an iron grip. In this tug-of-war the altar at length came crashing
to the ground, the Pope's strong hands still holding it tight. At this point, however, the
indignation and sympathy of the spectators could not be restrained; the assailants of the prostrate
prelate were put to flight, and he was left master of the situation. Next day a deputation,
including Belisarius and Justin, the heir-apparent, waited upon Vigilius, and in the emperor's
name assured him that resistance to the imperial will was useless, while compliance with it
would save him from further ill-treatment. Yielding to the counsels of prudence, the Pope returned
to the palace of Placidia,[102] the residence assigned to him during his stay in the capital.

Probably at this time arose the custom of placing the churches of SS. Peter and Paul, and SS.
Sergius and Bacchus at the service of the Latin clergy in Constantinople, especially when a
representative of the Pope, or the Pope himself, visited the city. The fact that the church
was dedicated to apostles closely associated with Rome and held in highest honour there, would
make it a sanctuary peculiarly acceptable to clergy from Western Europe. This, however, did
not confer upon Roman priests an exclusive right to the use of the building, and the custom
of allowing them to officiate there was often more conspicuous in the breach than in the observance.
Still the Roman See always claimed the use of the church, for in the letter addressed in 880
by Pope Julius VIII. to Basil I., that emperor is thanked for permitting Roman clergy to officiate
again in SS. Sergius and Bacchus according to ancient custom: 'monasterium Sancti Sergii intra
vestram regiam urbem constitutum, quod sancta Romana Ecclesia jure proprio quondam retinuit,
divina inspiratione repleti pro honore Principis Apostolorum nostro praesulatui reddidistis.'[103]

The most distinguished hegoumenos of the monastery was John Hylilas, better known, on account
of his learning, as the Grammarian, and nicknamed Lecanomantis, the Basin-Diviner, because
versed in the art of divination by means of a basin of polished brass. He belonged to a noble
family of Armenian extraction, and became prominent during the reigns of Leo V., Michael II.,
and Theophilus as a determined iconoclast. His enemies styled him Jannes, after one of the
magicians who withstood Moses, to denote his character as a sorcerer and an opponent of the
truth. Having occasion, when conducting service in the imperial chapel to read the lesson in
which the prophet Isaiah taunts idolaters with the question, 'To whom then will ye liken God,
or to what likeness will ye compare him?' John, it is said, turned to Leo V., and whispered
the significant comment, 'Hearest thou, my lord, the words of the prophet? They give thee counsel.'
He was a member of the Commission charged by that emperor to collect passages from the Holy
Scriptures and the Fathers of the Church that condemned the use of images in worship. Prominent
iconodules were interned in the monastery of Hormisdas in the hope that he would turn them
from the error of their ways by his arguments and influence. He directed the education of Theophilus
and supported the iconoclastic policy pursued by that pupil when upon the throne. Theophilus
appointed his tutor syncellus to the Patriarch Antony, employed him in diplomatic missions,[104]
and finally, upon the death of Antony, created him patriarch. The name of John can still be
deciphered under somewhat curious circumstances, in the litany which is inscribed on the bronze
doors of the Beautiful Gate at the south end of the inner narthex of S. Sophia. When those
doors were set up in 838, Theophilus and his empress had no son, and accordingly, in the threefold
prayer inscribed upon the doors, the name of John was associated with the names of the sovereigns
as a mark of gratitude and esteem. But in the course of time a little prince, to be known in
history as Michael III., was born and proclaimed the colleague of his parents. It then became
necessary to insert the name of the imperial infant in the litany graven on the Beautiful Gate
of the Great Church, and to indicate the date of his accession. To add another name to the
list of names already there was, however, impossible for lack of room; nor, even had there
been room, could the name of an emperor follow that of a subject, though that subject was a
patriarch. The only way out of the difficulty, therefore, was to erase John's name, and to
substitute the name of the little prince with the date of his coming to the throne; the lesser
light must pale before the greater. This was done, but the bronze proved too stubborn to yield
completely to the wishes of courtiers, and underneath Michael's name has kept fast hold of
the name John to this day. The original date on the gate also remains in spite of the attempt
to obliterate it.

SS. Sergius and Bacchus was one of the sanctuaries of the city to which the emperor paid an
annual visit in state.[105] Upon his arrival at the church he proceeded to the gallery and
lighted tapers at an oratory which stood in the western part of the gallery, immediately above
the Royal Gates, or principal entrance to the church. He went next to the chapel dedicated
to the Theotokos, also in the gallery, and after attending to his private devotions there,
took his place in the parakypticon ([Greek: en tô parakyptikô tou thysiastêriou)], at the north-eastern
or south-eastern end of the gallery, whence he could overlook the bema and follow the public
service at the altar.[106] In due course the Communion elements were brought and administered
to him in the chapel of the Theotokos; he then retired to the metatorion (a portion of the
gallery screened off with curtains), while the members of his suite also partook of the Communion
in that chapel. At the close of the service he and his guests partook of some light refreshments,
biscuits and wine, in a part of the gallery fitted up for that purpose, and thereafter returned
to the palace.

Architectural Features

In the description of the architectural features of the church and for the plans and most of
the illustrations in this chapter I am under deep obligation to Mr. A. E. Henderson, F.S.A.
The information gained from him in my frequent visits to the church in his company, and from
his masterly article on the church which appeared in the Builder of January 1906, has been
invaluable.

In design the church is an octagonal building roofed with a dome and enclosed by a rectangle,
with a narthex along the west side. This was a favourite type of ecclesiastical architecture,
and is seen also in another church of the same period, San Vitale of Ravenna, in which Justinian
and Theodora were interested. There, however, the octagonal interior is placed within an octagonal
enclosure. The adoption of a rectangular exterior in the Constantinopolitan sanctuary is a
characteristic Byzantine feature.[107] S. Vitale was founded in 526, a year before SS. Sergius
and Bacchus.

As an examination of the plan will show, the architect's design has not been followed with
strict accuracy, and the result is that both the enclosing square and the interior octagon
are very irregular figures. Furthermore, the two portions of the building have not the same
orientation, so that the octagon stands askew within its rectangular frame. How this lack of
symmetry should be explained, whether due to sloven work or the result of the effort to adapt
the church to the lines of the earlier church of SS. Peter and Paul, with which it was united,
is difficult to decide.

The court which stands before the Turkish portico in front of the west side of the building
represents the old atrium of the church, and to the rear of the portico is still found the
ancient narthex. At the south end of the narthex is a stone staircase leading to the gallery.
The arch at the foot of the staircase is built of fragments from the old ciborium or eikonostasis
of the church. The great height (0.24 metre or 9 inches) of the steps is found, according to
Mr. Antoniadi, also in S. Sophia.

The exterior walls, which are mostly in brick and rubble masonry, exhibit poor workmanship,
and have undergone considerable repair, especially on the east. On the south there are two
thicknesses of walling. The outer thickness has arched recesses at intervals along its length,
corresponding to openings in the inner thickness, and thus while buttressing the latter also
enlarges slightly the area of the church. The length of the rectangular enclosure from west
to east is 101 feet, with an average breadth of 772-1/2 feet from north to south, excluding
the recesses in the latter direction.

All the windows of the church have been altered by Turkish hands, and are rectangular instead
of showing semicircular heads.

The passage intervening between the rectangular enclosure and the octagon is divided into two
stories, thus providing the church with an ambulatory below and a gallery above.

The domed octagon which forms the core of the building stands at a distance of some 18-1/2
feet from the rectangle within which it is placed. It measures 53-1/2 feet by 50-1/2 feet.
The eight piers at its angles rise to a height of 33-1/2 feet from the floor to the springing
of the dome arches. The archways thus formed, except the bema arch, are filled in with two
pairs of columns in two stories set on the outer plane of the piers. The lower colonnade is
surmounted, after the classic fashion, by a horizontal entablature profusely carved while the
upper columns are bound by arches, thus making seven sides of the octagon a beautiful open
screen of fourteen columns and as many triple arcades, resplendent with marbles of various
hues and rich with carved work. The mass of the piers is relieved by their polygonal form,
a fluted cymatium along their summit, and a repeating design of a flower between two broad
leaves below the entablature. Though the flower points upwards it has been mistaken for a cluster
of grapes.[108] At the four diagonal points the sides of the octagon are semicircular, forming
exhedrae, an arrangement which gives variety to the lines of the figure, widens the central
area, secures more frontage for the gallery, and helps to buttress the dome. The same feature
appears in S. Sophia, whereas in San Vitale all the sides of the octagon, excepting the eastern
side, are semicircular. The extension of the interior area of a building (square or octagonal)
by means of niches at the angles or in the sides, or both at the angles and in the sides, was
a common practice.[109]

There is considerable difference in the size of the piers and the dome arches. The eastern
piers stand farther apart than their companions, and consequently the arch over them, the triumphal
arch of the sanctuary, is wider and loftier than the other arches. The bays to the north-east
and the south-east are also wider than the bays at the opposite angles. The apse is semicircular
within, and shows three sides on the exterior. As in S. Sophia and S. Irene, there is no prothesis
or diaconicon.

The pairs of columns, both below and above, are alternately verd antique and red Synnada marble,
resting on bases of the blue-veined white marble from the island of Marmora. The capitals on
the lower order are of the beautiful type known as the 'melon capital,' a form found also in
San Vitale at Ravenna and in the porch of S. Theodore in Constantinople (p. 246). The neckings
are worked with the capitals, and enriched by 'egg-and-dart' pointing upwards. In the centre
of the capitals was carved the monogram of Justinian or that of Theodora. Most of the monograms
have been effaced, but the name of the empress still appears on the capital of the western
column in the south bay, while that of Justinian is found on the first capital in the south-western
bay; on both capitals in the north-western bay, accompanied by the title Basileus; and, partially,
on the last capital in the north-eastern bay.

In the soffit of the architrave are sunk panels of various patterns, the six-armed cross occurring
twice. The beadings of the fasciae are enriched with the designs commonly known as 'rope,'
'bead-and-reel,' 'egg-and-dart,' and again 'bead-and-reel.'

The frieze is in two heights. The lower portion is a semicircular pulvinar adorned with acanthus
leaves, deeply undercut; the upper portion is occupied by a long inscription in raised ornamental
letters to the honour of Justinian, Theodora, and S. Sergius. The cornice is decorated with
dentils, 'bead-and-reel,' projecting consols, 'egg-and-dart,' and leaves of acanthus.

The inscription (Fig. 20) may be rendered thus: Other sovereigns, indeed, have honoured dead
men whose labour was useless. But our sceptred Justinian, fostering piety, honours with a splendid
abode the servant of Christ, Creator of all things, Sergius; whom nor the burning breath of
fire, nor the sword, nor other constraints of trials disturbed; but who endured for the sake
of God Christ to be slain, gaining by his blood heaven as his home. May he in all things guard
the rule of the ever-vigilant sovereign, and increase the power of the God-crowned Theodora
whose mind is bright with piety, whose toil ever is unsparing efforts to nourish the destitute.

The inscription is not mere flattery to the founders of the church. Justinian and Theodora
were devout after the fashion of their day, and took a deep interest in the poor. The empress
erected an asylum for fallen women, hostels for strangers, hospitals for the sick, and homes
for the destitute. 'On the splendid piece of tapestry embroidered in gold which formed the
altar cloth of S. Sophia, she was represented with Justinian as visiting hospitals and churches.'[110]

To the rear of the southern straight side of the octagon two columns stand under the gallery,
with wide fillets worked on both sides of their bases, shafts, and capitals, showing that a
frame of stone or wood was once affixed to them. The capitals are of the ordinary cushion type
and bear on opposite faces the monograms Justinian, Basileus.

Two feet above the cornice, or twenty feet from the floor of the church, the level of the gallery
is reached.[111] Here the columns are smaller than those below, and are bound together by arches
instead of by an architrave. Their capitals represent the type known as the 'Pseudo-Ionic'
or cushion capital, in view of its broad head. It appears appropriately here as the form of
capital required to carry the impost of an arch upon a capital. At one time, indeed, that demand
was met by placing upon the capital a distinct block of stone, a fragment, so to speak, of
the horizontal architrave. It is the device adopted in San Vitale at Ravenna, S. Demetrius
of Salonica, and elsewhere, but never it would seem in Constantinople, except in the underground
cisterns of the city. It was, however, too inartistic to endure, and eventually was superseded
by capitals with a broad flattened head on which the wide impost of an arch could rest securely.[112]

A free form of acanthus, deeply undercut on the face towards the central area of the church,
covers the capitals, and in the centre of that face, on all the capitals except the eighth
(counting from the north-east) is carved the monogram of the title Basileus, or of Justinian,
or of Theodora.

In the south side of the gallery stand two columns corresponding to the two columns in the
aisle below. They are poor in design and not original. The western capital is 'Pseudo-Ionic,'[113]
with a plain cross on the northern face. The eastern capital is in the basket form with roundels
on the four faces. Two additional columns are found in the western portion of the gallery.
They are of verd antique and larger than the other columns in this story of the church, and
have sunk crosses in them. The splendour of the interior decoration has certainly been dimmed,
for the walls of the edifice once gleamed with marbles and glittered with mosaics. 'By the
sheen of its marbles,' says Procopius,[114] 'it was more resplendent than the sun, and everywhere
it was filled profusely with gold.' When Ferguson examined the building, remains of frescoes
or of mosaics, which have disappeared since his time, could be distinguished in the narthex.
The soffit, both of the upper and of the lower cymatium on the piers, projects sufficiently
to admit the application of the customary marble incrustation. The proportions of the building
are marred by the boarded floor which rises seventeen centimeters above the original pavement,
disguising the real elevation of the dome and of the columns in the lower colonnade. But notwithstanding
all changes for the worse the building is still a beautiful structure. Very effective especially
is the happy combination of the various lines and forms here brought together--the rectilinear
and the semicircular sides of the octagon, the octagonal fabric and the round dome that crowns
it, the horizontal entablature stretched along the summit of the lower story of columns and
the arches that leap from column to column in the gallery. This harmonious variety of form
has also a historical significance. An old order in architecture and a new order here meet
and embrace before the earlier, having served its age, passes away and the later comes triumphant
to fill another era of the world with fresh beauties. Here in the tide of time we look before
and after.

To the student of architecture the dome of this church is specially interesting. In the application
of the dome to the octagon no pendentives are employed. The octagon is carried up to the base
of the dome, which is built in sixteen longitudinal compartments that impinge upon one another
and form groins giving to the dome its strength and sweep. On the groins is a plaster moulding,
probably Byzantine. The eight compartments directly above the dome arches are flat, and flush
with the inner face of the octagon, and in each of them is a semicircular-headed window. They
rise perpendicular to a point a little above the windows, and then curve with a radius to the
centre of the dome.

On the other hand the eight compartments directly above the angles of the octagon are narrower
than the preceding compartments; they have no windows, and, what is of special importance to
note, they are deeply concave.[115] Such marked hollowness is found in later domes as a decorative
feature, but here it is primarily and supremely a constructive device. By its means the concave
compartments are set slightly back from the octagon's inner face, leaving, at the springing
line, portions of the wall-head to appear as little flat ledges on each side of the angles.
This is a most skilful expedient, and compares favourably with the methods employed elsewhere
to apply the dome to the octagon.[116] In the octagonal church of S. Lorenzo at Milan the octagon
is turned into the circle by the introduction of squinches. In San Vitale a considerable walling
is built between the line of the octagon and the springing line of the dome, while the bed
for the dome is formed by introducing, in the space over the angles of the octagon, niches
which are worked above to the circle on plan. On the other hand, it is interesting to compare
with these methods the method employed in the baptistery of S. Sophia, now a Sultan's Turbé,
near the southern entrance to the inner narthex. Although the walls of the building describe
a square on the exterior, they form an octagon on the interior with semicircular bays at the
diagonals, as in SS. Sergius and Bacchus. But in the application of the dome the true pendentive
is used. The baptistery was erected shortly before S. Sophia, and in view of the erection of
the great church.

The curvature of the dome of SS. Sergius and Bacchus has three zones, which have respectively
a radius of m. 8, (drawn from the centre of the octagon), m. 3-1/4, and m. 9-1/2, (centre about
m. 2, below the springing of the dome). The first extends to a point a little above the heads
of the dome windows; the second about m. 2 higher; the third to the crown of the dome. The
groins stop short a little below the dome's apex, where they are arched into one another, leaving
a saucer-shaped crown now capped by a Turkish finial. The dome is covered with lead, and presents
an undulating surface owing to the protuberance of its eight concave compartments.[117]

The system of weighting and buttressing the dome displays great skill, and will be best understood
by studying Mr. Henderson's geometrical and constructive sections of the systems (Figs. 28, 29).

[81] Procop. De aed. i. c. 4; Banduri, iii. p. 45.

[82] De top. ii. c. 14.

[83] Cedren. ii. pp. 642-43.

[84] Mansi, viii. col. 1010.

[85] Banduri, iii. p. 45. The church was visited by Russian pilgrims in 1200, 1350, 1393.--Itin.
russes, pp. 160, 120, 164.

[86] Procop. De aed. i. p. 186. S. Peter 'near the palace' is mentioned in the list of abbots
at the Synod of C.P. in 536. Mansi, viii. col. 930, col. 939. Another document of the same
Synod, col. 1010, is signed by Peter, hegoumenos of SS. Peter and Paul and of the holy martyrs
SS. Sergius and Bacchus.

[87] Diehl, Manuel d'art byzantin, p. 31. Antoniadi has drawn my attention to the junction
of a basilica and a hexagonal building in a baptistery at Tivoli. See Dehio und Bezold, Atlas,
plate i. fig. 10.

[88] Synax, Oct. 7.

[89] Du Cange, iv. p. 135.

[90] Cedren. i. p. 635; Procop. Secret History, c. 6; Procop. De aed. ii. p. 234; Theoph. p.
339; Theoph. Cont. p. 154.

[91] Cedren. i. pp. 642-43. The Synaxaria (Sirmondi) speak of three churches of S. Sergius,
in or near Constantinople; [Greek: en tais Sophiais], Oct. 7; [Greek: plêsion tês Aetiou kinsternês,
Nov. 9 (near Monastery of Manuel, p. 258); [Greek: peran en Rhouphinianais], May 29 (near Kadikeui).]

[92] Page 220.

[93] Baronius, Annales ecclesiastici, tom. ix. p. 253, Luccae, 1741: 'quam basilicam eorum
hic in domo nostra sub nomine praedictorum venerabilium constructam, illustrare et illuminare
large dignemini.'

[94] Ibid. p. 254.

[95] De aed. i. p. 186.

[96] Ut supra, [Greek: kai epeita kai temenos allo ek plagiou toutô parakeimenon] (i.e. SS.
Sergius and Bacchus).

[97] Baronius, x. p. 43.

[98] Theoph. p. 349; Malalas, p. 485.

[99] Le Grand Palais. Epigram 8 in the Anthologia Graeca epigrammatum (vol. i. Stadt-Mueller)
celebrates the erection by Justinian of SS. Peter and Paul, [Greek: eis ton naon tôn hagiôn
apostolôn plêsion tou hagiou Sergiou eis ta Hormisdou].

[100] Baronius, x. p. 43 'ex domo Placidiana, ubi degebat, confugit ad ibi proxime junctam
ecclesiam S. Petri'; cf. Vigilius' letter, Ep. vii. t. i. Ep. Rom. pont.

[101] Theoph. p. 349; Malalas, p. 485.

[102] Notitia. Two palaces bearing similar names stood in the First Region of the city, the
Palatium Placidianum and the Domus Placidiae Augustae. Vigilius refers to the palace in his
circular letter, giving an account of his treatment at Constantinople. There also the legates
of Pope Agatho were lodged in 680, on the occasion of the First Council in Trullo, and there
likewise Pope Constantine in 710, when he came to the East at the command of Justinian II.,
took up his abode.--Anastasius Bibliothecarius, pp. 54, 65.

[103] Epistola ccli. See Du Cange, Const. Christ. iv. p. 116.

[104] 'Under the microscope of modern historical criticism, ... it is not surprising to find
that the famous embassy of John the Grammarian to the court of Baghdad must be rejected as
a fiction irreconcilable with fact.'--Prof. Bury in the English Historical Review, April 1909.
But he was sent on other embassies.

[105] Constant. Porphyr. pp. 87-88.

[106] Similar to the parakypticon at the east end of the southern gallery in S. Sophia. Reiske
(Comment. ad Constant. Porphyr. p. 195) defines it as 'Fenestra, quae in sacrificatorium despicit
e catechumeniis.' Cf. on the whole subject, Antoniadi, [Greek: Ekphrasis tês Hagias Sophias],
vol. ii. p. 291, note 101; p. 331, note 190; p. 332.

[107] The plan of SS. Sergius and Bacchus is similar to that of the cathedral of Bosra (511-12),
which was also dedicated to the same saints. Fergusson, History of Ancient and Mediaeval Architecture,
vol. i. p. 432.

[108] Gyllius, De Top. C.P. ii. c. 16. If the design represented vine leaves and grapes, it
surely did not allude to the god Bacchus, but to the vine in the gospel of S. John. The small
columns on the piers are Turkish.

[109] Antoniadi, S. Sophia, vol. ii, pp. 7-9, draws attention to the development of buildings
with sides turned into exhedrae, from their simplest form to their culmination in S. Sophia.
He refers for illustrations to plans in Dehio und Bezold, Die kirchliche Baukunst des Abendlandes,
vol. i. pp. 23-31; Atlas, vol. i. plate i. figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 7; plate iii. figures 1, 2, 7.

[110] C. Diehl, Theodora, pp. 242, 342.

[111] The ratio of the height of the gallery above the floor of the church to the height of
the summit of the dome is, according to Antoniadi, 1/3.5, the same as in S. Sophia as built
by Anthemius.

[112] 'Pulvins,' says Rivoira (Lombardic Architecture, p. 11, English translation), 'serve
the purpose of providing the springers of the arches with a base corresponding to the wall
which they carry, while allowing the support beneath to be much slighter without injuring the
stability of the structure.'

[113] Rivoira, ut supra, p. 62: 'The volutes in the Pseudo-Ionic capital intended to conceal
the abruptness of the transition from the square of the pulvin to the round.'

[114] De aed. i. p. 187.

[115] 'The centres of the radii of these concave compartments are formed by having three points
given the groins on either side and the angle of the octagon in the centre. With these points
for each compartment the radius is given, and an arc turned giving the concavity required for
each web at its springing.'--A. E. Henderson in the Builder, January 1906, p. 4.

[116] In S. George of Ezra in Syria (515), as Mr. E. M. Antoniadi informs me, the dome overhangs
or oversails the angles of the octagon.

[117] 'The dome stands within a polygon of sixteen sides, that rises four metres above the
springing line, keeping the dome taut and weighting the haunches. Against this polygonal casing
are set buttresses formed by the extension of the piers of the octagon to within m. 1-1/2 from
the cornice of the dome. These buttresses are in their turn respectively strengthened, on the
rear, by two small buttresses; of which those on the north, south, east, and west sides rest
on an arch of the gynecaeum, and carry the thrust to the outer walls of the church, while the
others rest on the exhedrae and the vaulting of the gynecaeum. Furthermore, from the summit
of the buttresses formed by the piers of the octagon a small buttress is set against the cupola
itself up to the cornice.' This marshalling of the buttresses around the dome in three tiers,
while securing the stability of the structure, is moreover strikingly artistic. See Fig. 21.

CHAPTER IV

THE CHURCH OF S. IRENE 118-143

The church of S. Irene stands at a short distance to the north-east of S. Sophia, in the first
court of the Seraglio. Its identity has never been questioned, for the building was too much
in the public eye and too near the centre of the ecclesiastical affairs of the city to render
possible any mistake concerning its real character. It is always described as close to S. Sophia.[118]
According to the historian Socrates,[119] it was originally one of the Christian sanctuaries
of the old town of Byzantium, a statement we may well believe, seeing Byzantium was the seat
of a bishop before the foundation of Constantinople. The designation of the church as 'the
Ancient' or 'the Old Church,' Ecclesia Antiqua, [Greek: hê palaia],[120] and the special regard
cherished for the church during the earlier history of the city, are also thus best explained.
The original sanctuary was small,[121] but when Byzantium became the capital of the East the
old fabric was enlarged and beautified by Constantine the Great to harmonize with its grander
surroundings, and was dedicated to Peace, in honour of the rest and quiet which settled upon
the Roman world when the founder of the city had vanquished all his rivals after eighteen years
of civil war.[122]

  NOTE

  Other churches of the same name were found in Constantinople:
  S. Irene in the Seventh Region, according to the Notitia. S. Irene
  in Sykai (Galata), [Greek: peran en Sykais]; Theophanes, p. 353.
  S. Irene by the Sea, [Greek: pros thalassan]; Nicetas Choniates,
  p. 269; Synax., Jan. 10. The last was also known as the New,
  [Greek: Nea]; Synax., Jan. 23. Erected in the reign of the Emperor
  Marcian, it was partially restored by the Emperor Manuel Comnenus
  after its destruction by fire; Nicet. Chon. ut supra. It was styled
  likewise 'at the Ferry,' [Greek: to perama]; Codinus, De aed. p. 89;
  Banduri, ii. p. 31.

Until the year 360, when the church of S. Sophia was opened to public worship by the Emperor
Constantius, S. Irene appears to have been the cathedral of the city. Hence, probably, the
name sometimes given to it, the Patriarchate, [Greek: to patriarcheion].[123] Nor did the church
lose its primacy altogether even after the erection of S. Sophia. On the contrary, the two
churches were regarded as forming one sanctuary; they were enclosed within the same court,
served by the same clergy, and known by the same name, 'the Great Church,' [Greek: hê Megalê
Ekklêsia].[124] S. Irene was again the sole cathedral building, while S. Sophia lay in ruins
for eleven years after being set on fire in 404, on the occasion of the final banishment of
John Chrysostom.

S. Irene comes prominently into view during the fierce struggle between the adherents of the
Nicene Creed and the Arians, in the half-century which followed the inauguration of New Rome.
Having been persuaded that the point at issue between the two theological parties was not essential,
and that the agitation of the question was due to love of disputation, Constantine the Great,
who valued peace at almost any price, attempted to suppress the controversy by his authority,
and accordingly ordered the Patriarch Alexander to admit Arius, then present in the city, to
the Holy Communion. With this order Alexander, a champion of the Nicene Creed, refused to comply.
Whereupon the followers of Arius decided to have recourse to violence. But on the very eve
of the day fixed to carry out their purpose, Arius was taken suddenly ill in the Forum of Constantine
and died on the spot. The historian Socrates regards the event as the act of God, for when
the patriarch heard what the heretics intended to do, he retired to the church of S. Irene,
and there for many days and nights, with fasting and tears, and with his lips pressed to the
altar, implored divine succour in his terrible extremity. 'If the opinions of Arius be true,'
the patriarch prayed, 'let me die; but if they are false let him be judged.' The tragic end
of Arius was considered the answer to that prayer.

Upon the death of Alexander in 343, at the age of ninety-eight, the two parties came into collision
in regard to the question of his successor. The deceased prelate had recommended two persons
as suitable to fill his place: the presbyter Paul, because of his abilities; the deacon Macedonius,
on account of his age and venerable appearance. The Arians favoured Macedonius, as more in
sympathy with their opinions; the orthodox, however, carried the election and installed Paul
in S. Irene. The defeated party seems to have submitted, but the Emperor Constantius, a violent
Arian, quashed the election, and appointed Eusebius of Nicomedia, a prominent upholder of the
views of Arius, bishop of the capital. Upon the death of Eusebius in 346 the theological combatants
again seized the opportunity to try their strength. The orthodox recalled Paul; the Arians
consecrated Macedonius. Incensed by these proceedings, Constantius, then at Antioch, ordered
Hermogenes, the magister militum in Thrace, to proceed to Constantinople and drive Paul from
the city. But no sooner did Hermogenes attempt to execute his instructions than the populace
rose, burnt his house to the ground, and after dragging him along the streets, killed him.
The emperor was furious. He hurried back to Constantinople, banished Paul, and reduced by one-half
the amount of free bread daily distributed among the citizens. Nor did he fully recognize Macedonius
as bishop. Under these circumstances Paul made his way to Rome, and, having secured the support
of the Pope, reappeared in Constantinople as the rightful bishop of the see. But the emperor,
again in Syria, was not to be baffled. More angry than ever, he sent peremptory orders to Philip,
the prefect of Constantinople, to expel Paul and to recognize Macedonius. By skilful arrangements
Paul was quietly removed from the scene. But to install Macedonius was a more difficult undertaking.
The prefect, however, ordered his chariot, and with Macedonius seated by his side made for
S. Irene, under an escort of troops carrying drawn swords. The sharp, naked weapons alarmed
the crowds in the streets, and without distinction of sect or class men rushed for the church,
everybody trying to outstrip his neighbour in the race to get there first. Soon all the approaches
to the building were packed to suffocation; no one stirred backwards or forwards, and the prefect's
chariot was unable to advance. What seemed a hostile barricade of human beings welded together
obstructed his path. In vain did the soldiers brandish their swords in the hope of frightening
the crowd to disperse. The crowd stood stock still, not because it would not, but because it
could not move. The soldiers grew angry, resorted to their weapons, and cut a way to the church
through that compact mass of humanity at the cost of 3150 lives; some of the victims being
crushed to death, others killed at the point of the sword. So was Macedonius conducted to his
throne in the temple of Peace.[125] But the conflict between the opposite parties continued,
and after six years spent in efforts to recover his position, Paul was restored to office through
the intervention of the Pope of Rome, of the Emperor Constans, and of the Synod of Sardica.
It was a brief triumph. In 350 Paul was exiled for life to Cucusus, and Macedonius ruled once
more in his stead.[126] For the next thirty years S. Irene with the other churches of the capital
remained in the hands of the Arians.

During that period the Nicene faith was preached by Gregory of Nazianzus only in a small chapel,
subsequently dedicated to S. Anastasia.[127] But with the accession of Theodosius the Great
the adherents of the Creed of Nicaea prevailed, and the Second General Council, held in Constantinople
in 381, adopted that creed as the true faith of the Christian Church.

According to the biographer of S. Stephen the Younger, who enumerates the six ecumenical councils,
and indicates, in most cases, where each met, that famous Council met in the church of S. Irene.[128]
But Theodore Lector[129] says the Council assembled in the church of Homonoia, and explains
the name of that church as commemorative of the harmony which prevailed among the bishops who
gathered there on that occasion. As a matter of fact, one of the churches of the city bore
the name Homonoia.[130] Possibly the discrepancy between the statements of the authors just
mentioned may be due to a confusion arising from a similar meaning of the names of the two
churches.

According to the Anonymus,[131] the usurper Basiliscus took refuge with his wife and children
in S. Irene, when he was overthrown in 477, and the Emperor Zeno recovered the throne. But,
according to the Paschal Chronicle,[132] Basiliscus fled on that occasion to the great baptistery
of S. Sophia. As that baptistery stood between S. Irene and S. Sophia and may have served both
churches, the difference between the two statements is not serious.

After standing for two centuries the Constantinian edifice was burnt to the ground by the fire
which the rebel factions in the Nika Riot set to the offices of the prefect on Friday, the
16th of January 532. The building had narrowly escaped the same fate in the fire which destroyed
S. Sophia earlier in the course of the riot, and might have survived also the conflagration
in which it actually perished, but for the strong wind which carried the flames from the praetorium
to the church, devouring on their way the bath of Alexander, a part of the hospice of Eubulus,
and the hospital of Sampson with its patients.

The restoration of the church was included in the magnificent scheme of Justinian the Great
to build on the wilderness of ashes created by his rebel subjects the finest monuments of his
empire. And so S. Irene rose from its ruins, the largest sanctuary in Constantinople, except
S. Sophia.[133] The bricks bearing the mark 'the Great Church,' [Greek: Megalê 'Ekklêsia],
which are built into a raised bank against the northern wall of the atrium, afford no indication
of the date when S. Irene was rebuilt. The bank is of comparatively recent origin.[134]

In the month of December 564, the thirty-seventh year of Justinian's reign, another great fire
threatened to destroy the buildings which that emperor had erected in the quarter of the city
beside S. Sophia. The hospital of Sampson was again burnt down; the atrium of the Great Church,
known as the Garsonostasion, suffered; two monasteries close to S. Irene perished, and, what
most concerns us, the atrium and part of the narthex of S. Irene itself were consumed.[135]
How soon these injuries were repaired is not recorded.

During the 176 years that followed the reconstruction of the church by Justinian, S. Irene
does not appear in history. But in 740 it was injured by the earthquake which shook Constantinople
in the last year of the reign of Leo III. the Isaurian.[136] Theophanes[137] is very precise
in regard to the time when the disaster occurred; it was on the 26th of October, the ninth
indiction, on a Wednesday, at eight o'clock. The damage done both in the city and in the towns
of Thrace and Bithynia was terrible. In Nicaea only one church was left standing, while Constantinople
deplored the ruin of large portions of the landward fortifications and the loss of many churches,
monasteries, and public monuments. S. Irene was then shaken, and, as the examination of the
building by Mr. George has proved, sustained most serious injuries. The Emperor Leo died about
six months after the disaster, and it is therefore uncertain whether the church was rebuilt
before his death. His first attention was naturally directed to the reconstruction of the fortifications
of the city, where his name still appears, with that of his son and successor Constantine Copronymus,
as the rebuilder of the fallen bulwarks. But although there is no record of the precise date
at which the ruined church was repaired, we may safely assume that if the work was not commenced
while Leo III. sat upon the throne, it was undertaken soon after the accession of Constantine
Copronymus. S. Irene was too important to be long neglected, and was probably rebuilt during
the ascendancy of the iconoclasts.

The church reappears for a moment in 857 during the dispute which raged around the persons
of Ignatius and Photius as to which of them was the lawful patriarch. While the partisans of
the latter met in the church of the Holy Apostles to depose Ignatius, the few bishops who upheld
the claims of Ignatius assembled in S. Irene to condemn and depose Photius with equal vehemence.[138]

The church comes into view once more in connection with the settlement of the quarrel caused
in 907 by the fourth marriage of Leo VI. the Wise. As the union was uncanonical, the Patriarch
Nicholas deposed the priest who had celebrated the marriage; he, moreover, refused the Communion
to the emperor, and treated Zoe, the emperor's fourth wife, as an outcast. For such conduct
Nicholas lost his office, and a more pliant ecclesiastic was appointed in his place. The inevitable
result followed. The religious world was torn by a schism which disturbed Church and State
for fifteen years. At length Romanus I. summoned a council of divines to compose the agitation,
and peace was restored in 921, by a decree which condemned a fourth marriage, but allowed a
third marriage under very strict limitations. So important was this decision regarded that
it was read annually, in July, from the pulpit, and on that occasion the emperor, with the
patriarch, attended service in S. Irene, and at its close took part in a procession from S.
Irene to S. Sophia, on the way back to the Great Palace.[139]

On Good Friday the patriarch held a service for catechumens ([Greek: katêchêsis]) in S. Irene,
which the patricians were required to attend.[140]

The church of S. Irene has never been used as a mosque. After its enclosure within the precincts
of the Seraglio soon after the Turkish conquest, it was converted into an armoury, probably
because it stood in the court occupied by the body of Janissaries who formed the palace guard,
and it has served that military purpose, in contradiction to its name, for the most part ever
since. For several years it contained the first collection of antiquities made by the Turkish
Government, and some of the objects in that collection still remain to recall the use of the
building as a museum; the most interesting of them being the chain stretched across the mouth
of the Golden Horn during the siege of 1453, the monument to the charioteer Porphyrios, and
the pedestal of the silver statue of the Empress Eudocia, which played a fatal part in the
relations of that empress to the great bishop of Constantinople, John Chrysostom. Since the
establishment of the constitutional régime in the Ottoman Empire the building has been turned
into a Museum of Arms.

Architectural Features

Until the recent establishment of constitutional government in Turkey it was impossible to
obtain permission to study this church in a satisfactory manner, so jealously was even entrance
into the building guarded. The nearest approach to anything like a proper examination of the
building was when Salzenberg was allowed to visit the church in 1848, while the church of S.
Sophia was undergoing repairs under the superintendence of the Italian architect Fossati. But
the liberty accorded to Salzenberg was not complete, and, consequently, his plan of the church
published in his Altchristliche Baudenkmäler von Konstantinopel is marred by serious mistakes.
Happily the new Government of the Empire is animated by an enlightened and liberal spirit,
and at the request of His Excellency Sir Gerard Lowther, H.B.M. Ambassador to the Sublime Porte,
permission was granted to the Byzantine Research and Publication Fund to have the church examined
as thoroughly as its condition allowed, and to make all the plans, drawings, and photographs
required in the interests of a scientific knowledge of its architectural character. The Byzantine
Research and Publication Fund was fortunate in having as its president, Edwin Freshfield, LL.D.,
so long distinguished for his devotion to Byzantine archaeology, and it is mainly due to his
generosity that the means necessary for carrying on the study of the church were provided.
The society was, moreover, most happy in being able to secure the services of an architect
in Mr. W. S. George, who already possessed considerable experience in the investigation of
Byzantine buildings at Salonica and elsewhere. Fortunately, also, the building was at the same
time placed under repair, in view of its conversion into a museum of arms, thus affording exceptional
facilities for the erection of scaffolding and the removal of plaster and other obstructions.
Mr. George gave nearly five months to the study of the church, and the results of his careful
investigations will appear in a monograph to be published by the Byzantine Research and Publication
Fund. But with great courtesy, in view of the fact that I was engaged on the present work,
and also because I waived my own application for leave to study S. Irene in favour of the application
made by the Byzantine Fund, I have been allowed to anticipate that monograph by making use
of some of the results of Mr. George's investigations. For this permission I am very grateful,
as it will add much to the value of this volume. I visited the church frequently while Mr.
George was at work upon it, and my account of its architectural features is based entirely
upon the information he then kindly supplied, and upon the notes he has communicated to me
since his return to England.

The architectural feature which gives to this building a peculiar interest, in the study of
the development of planning and construction, is the more complete fusion of the basilican
type of plan with a domical system of roofing which it presents than is found in any other
example of a similar combination.

On the west, where the ground retains its original level, stands the old atrium, though much
modified by Turkish repairs and alterations. It had covered arcades on the north, south, and
west sides, but only the outer walls of the northern and southern arcades, with some portions
of their inner walls, and three complete vaulted bays at the northern end of the western arcade,
are Byzantine. The walls, vaults, and piers in other parts of the arcades are Turkish. There
is no trace of the west door which, under ordinary circumstances, would form the main entrance
to the atrium, but a Byzantine doorway, now built up, is found close to the narthex, in the
outer wall of the south arcade. The area of the atrium has been, moreover, greatly reduced
by the erection, on its four sides, of an inner range of Turkish vaulting.

Five doors led from the atrium to the narthex, but only the central and the northernmost of
these doors are now open, the latter entrance still retaining its original architrave and cornice
of white marble, with the usual mouldings and a cross worked on the crowning member of the
cornice. The present entrance to the church, however, is on the north side of the building,
through a porch that leads down a sloping Turkish passage to the western end of the north aisle.

The narthex is in five bays, the two terminal bays having cross-groined vaults, the three central,
vaults of a domical character with blunt rounded groins at the springing. The whole vaulting
surface of the narthex was once covered with mosaics exhibiting mainly a geometrical pattern.

From the narthex three tall arched openings conducted to the nave, and one opening to each
aisle. But the direct communication between the narthex and the northern aisle is now cut off
by the insertion of the Turkish entrance to the church, although the old doorway to the aisle
remains complete.

The nave is divided into two large bays of equal breadth but unequal length, the western bay
being the shorter. In the latter the arches which support its roof are, to the east and west,
semicircular, while those to north and south are roughly elliptical, springing from the same
level and rising to the same height as the semicircular arches, but being of shorter span.
These elliptical arches extend to the outer walls of the church, thus partaking of the character
of short barrel vaults.

Upon these arches is raised what has been called an elliptical dome. But in no part has it
the character of a true ellipse, nor does it spring from its supporting arches in the simple
regular manner of a dome, but in the complex manner of a vault built upon arches of unequal
curvature. It should therefore rather be called a domical vault. Where it shows above the roof
it has the appearance of a modified and very low cone covering an irregular elliptical drum.

The eastern bay of the nave is square on plan, bounded by semicircular arches, all extended
so as to form short barrel vaults. The western arch is joined to the eastern arch of the western
bay, thus forming a short barrel vault common to both bays. The vault to the east runs to the
semi-dome of the apse; whilst the vaults to north and south, like the corresponding vaults
in the western bay, extend to the outer walls and cover the eastern portions of the aisles
and galleries. Above the supporting arches regular pendentives are formed, and above these
there is a drum carrying a dome. The apse to the east of the nave is semicircular within and
covered by a semi-dome.

Between that semi-dome and the eastern barrel vault of the nave a break is interposed, giving
the bema arch two orders or faces, with their external and internal angles rounded off, and
the whole surface of the semi-dome and of the bema arch is covered with mosaic. At one time
the mosaic extended also over the surface of the barrel vault. The decoration in the semi-dome
consists of a large cross in black outline upon a gold ground; below the cross there are three
steps set upon a double band of green that runs round the base of the semi-dome. A geometrical
border bounds the semi-dome, and then comes the following inscription, an extract from Psalm
lxv. verses 5, 6 (the lxiv. in the Septuagint version), on the inner face of the arch:

  [Greek: (DEUT EI)SOMETHA EN TOIS AGATHOIS TOU OIKOU SOU,
  HAGIOS O NAOS SOU THAUMASTOS EN DIKAIOSYNÊ EPAKOUSON
  HÊMÔN O TH[EO]S O S[ÔT]ÊR HÊMÔN HÊ ELPIS
  PANTÔN TÔN PERATÔN TÊS GÊS KAI TÔN EN THALASSÊ
  MAK(RA)[N]].

  (Come we will go?) in the good things of thy house. Holy is
  thy temple. Thou art wonderful in righteousness. Hear us, O God
  our Saviour; the hope of all the ends of the earth and of them
  who are afar off upon the sea.

The letters enclosed within curved brackets and the accents[141] above them are paint only;
the letters within square brackets are not in the inscription, but are supplied where evident
contractions render that course necessary. The remaining letters are in unrestored mosaic.

Probably [Greek:(Deut ei) sometha] is a mistake of the restorer for the word [Greek: plêsthêsometha]
in the original text. 'We shall be filled with the goodness (or the good things) of thy house.'

Three other geometrical patterns in mosaic succeed, after which follows a broad wreath of foliage
on the outer face of the bema arch and the words:

  [Greek:(HO O)IKODOMÔN EIS T(ON OIKON SOU KAI) ANABASIN
  AUTOU, KAI TÊN EPANGELIAN (TOU HAGIOU PNEUMATOS
  EU HÊMAS ÊLPEISAMEN EIS TO O)NOMA A(UTOU)].

The mosaic above the crown of the semi-dome has been injured and restored imperfectly in plaster,
paint, and gilt. Hence the large black patch in it which includes the upper arm of the cross.

The letters enclosed within curved brackets are in paint and are manifestly the work of a restorer
who has spoiled the grammatical construction of the words and obscured the meaning of the inscription.
The remaining letters are in unrestored mosaic.

I venture to suggest that the original text was a quotation from Amos ix. 6, with possibly
some variations:

  [Greek: ho oikodomôn eis ton ouranon anabasin autou kai tên
  epangelian autou epi tês gês themeliôn].

  'He who builds his ascent up to the heaven and his command
  on the foundations of the earth.'

The words, [Greek: êlpeisamen eis to onoma autou], 'we have hoped in his name,' may be original
(Psalm xxxii. 21; Isaiah xxvi. 8).

With these inscriptions may be compared the beautiful collect used at the consecration of a church:

  [Greek: Akolouthia eis enkainia naou.

  'Yea, Lord God Almighty our Saviour, the hope of all the ends
  of the earth, hear us sinners when we call upon thee, and send thy
  Holy Spirit, the worshipful and all powerful, and sanctify this house.'

Below the windows of the apse are ranges of seats for the clergy, forming a sloping gallery,
and consisting of eleven risers and eleven treads, so that, according to the method of seating
adopted, there are five or six or eleven rows of seats. There is no vestige of a special episcopal
seat in the centre, but the stonework has been disturbed; for some of the seats are built with
portions of the moulded base of the marble revetment of the building. Underneath the seats
runs a narrow semicircular passage originally well lighted through openings[142] in the riser
of one range of seats, and having a doorway at each end.

On either side of the nave, towards the eastern end of each aisle, there is an approximately
square compartment covered with a domical vault, and having an opening communicating with the
nave immediately to the west of the bema. To the east of these compartments stands what was
the original eastern wall of the church, and in it, in the north aisle, a large doorway retaining
its architrave and cornice, is still found. Of the corresponding doorway in the south aisle
only the threshold is left. These doorways must have communicated with the outer world to the
east of the church, like the doorways which occupy a similar position in the Studion (p. 53).
The northern compartment had an opening, which is still surmounted by architrave and cornice,
also in its north wall. There are, moreover, four other openings or recesses in the northern
wall of the church, and two in the southern.

The main portions of the aisles are divided from the nave by light screens of columns, the
eastern and western portions being connected by passages driven through the dome piers. In
the eastern nave bay there are four columns, giving five aisle bays on each side. The columns
are very slender, without any base moulding, and stand upon square pedestals, now framed round
with Turkish woodwork. On opening one of these frames the pedestal was found to be a mutilated
and imperfectly squared block of stone. Such blocks may have served as the core of a marble
lining, or may be damaged material re-used.

The capitals are of the 'Pseudo-Ionic' type, with roughly cut Ionic volutes. The sinking on
their lower bed is too large for the necks of the columns. Towards the aisles they bear the
monograms of Justinian and Theodora, identical with the monograms of these sovereigns in S.
Sophia, while on the side towards the nave they have a cross in low relief. Usually monograms
are placed in the more conspicuous position.

Above the capitals the vaulting that covers the aisles and supports the galleries is of an
uncommon type. Towards the nave the arches are narrow and raised upon very high stilts; from
each capital a semicircular arch is thrown across to the outer wall, where is a range of windows,
each of which has an extrados at a slightly higher level than the extrados of the corresponding
nave arch; and thus a long narrow space is left between the four arches of each vault compartment
that could be filled, wholly or in part, without the use of centering. The result is a narrow,
irregularly curved vault, shaped to the backs of each of its surrounding arches, and having,
in the main, the character of a spherical fragment.

The western portion of each aisle is divided from the nave by an irregular arcade supported
by a pier and one column, and, consequently, there are three aisle bays to the western nave
bay, and not four as shown by Salzenburg.

The whole interior surfaces of the walls, up to the level of the springing of the gallery vaulting,
and the nave walls, up to the gallery level, were once faced with marble. This is proved by
the presence in the walls of many marble plugs and some iron holdfasts, as well as by remains
of the moulded base of the facing.

At the eastern extremity of the aisles there are chambers formed by walls built, as the vertical
straight joints and difference of materials employed indicate, at various periods. The chamber
at the end of the northern aisle has an archway, now built up, in its eastern wall, and seems
to have served as a vestibule. It is in these chambers that Salzenberg supposes the staircases
leading to the galleries stood, but it is evident from the character of the walls and vaulting
that no such staircases could ever have existed there.

The galleries extend over the narthex and over the whole length of the aisles. Access to them
is now obtained by a wooden staircase and landing of Turkish construction, but how they were
reached in Byzantine times is not evident. Possibly the fragments of wall on the exterior face
of the south wall of the narthex and the traces of vaulting beside them may be the remains
of a staircase. Or a staircase may have stood to the west of the narthex over the vaulting
of the atrium, where projecting spurs of walls appear.

The vaulting of the gallery over the narthex was originally similar to that of the narthex
itself, but only the cross-groined vaults at the corners are Byzantine; the three central compartments
are Turkish. Five windows in the western wall looked into the atrium, and as many openings
in the eastern wall into the nave and side galleries. Below the former range is a string-course
corresponding to that which runs round the interior of the building at gallery level.

The gallery over each aisle consists of two open portions under the dome arches, divided from
each other by the dome piers, which are pierced to connect the different parts of the gallery
with each other, and with the gallery over the narthex. In the side walls there is a range
of windows at gallery level; five on each side of the eastern nave bay, three in the south
wall of the western nave bay, but none, at present, in its northern wall. Above these windows
are two ranges of windows in each lunette under the dome arches, a system of five and three
in the eastern bay, and of four and two in the western bay. All these windows, now square-headed,
had originally semicircular heads. The lunette filling the western dome arch had doubtless
a similar window arrangement, though at present it has only one window.

The eastern ends of the side galleries have been formed into separate chambers since the Turkish
occupation. Of the additions beyond the original east wall of the church, that to the north
was connected with the gallery by a tall wide arch, while that to the south was divided off
from the gallery with only a small door as a means of communication. The southern addition
was divided into two chambers as on the ground floor.

The walls above gallery level and the large vaulting surfaces of the building are now covered
with plaster, but a close examination proves that if any mosaic or marble revetment ever existed
above gallery level, none of it, excepting the mosaic in the apse, remains.

Looking next at the exterior of the building, it is to be observed that the ground on the north,
south, and east has been raised as much as fifteen feet. In many places the walls have undergone
Turkish repair. The apse shows three sides. The drum of the dome is pierced by twenty semicircular-headed
windows (of which only five are now open), and as their arches and the dome spring at about
the same level the heads of the windows impinge upon the dome's surface. Two low shoulders
cover the eastern pendentives. The plan of the drum is peculiar. From the shoulders, just mentioned,
to the windows, it is a square with rounded corners, one side of the square being joined with
and buried in the drum of the western dome vault; but upon reaching the base of the windows
it becomes an accurate circle in plan, and at the springing of the window arches is set back,
leaving a portion of the piers to appear as buttresses. The upper portion of the drum is carried
well up above the springing of the dome, leaving a large mass of material properly disposed
so as to take the thrusts produced.

The careful examination of the building by Mr. George has proved that the fabric is not the
work of one age, but consists of parts constructed at different periods. For the full evidence
on the subject we must await the forthcoming monograph on the church. Here, only the main results
of Mr. George's survey can be presented.

Up to the level of the springing of the aisle vaults, the walls of the main body of the building,
excepting the narthex and the additions at the east end of the church, are built of large well-squared
stones laid in regular courses, and are homogeneous throughout.

Above that level the walls are built in alternate bands of brick and stone, five courses of
brick to five courses of stone being the normal arrangement. The stones in this portion of
the walls are smaller and much more roughly squared than those below the springing of the aisle
vaults. This brick and stone walling is, so far as could be ascertained, homogeneous right
up to the domical vault and the dome. As usual the arches and vaults are in brick. A point
to be noted is that the recesses or openings in the lower part of the north and south walls
of the church do not centre with the windows and vaulting above them; sometimes, indeed, the
head of an opening comes immediately below a vaulting arch or rib. Again, at the north-eastern
external angle of the apse the wall up to the level of the springing of the aisle vaulting
is in stone, but above that level in brick, and the two portions differ in the angle which
they subtend. Evidently there has been rebuilding from a level coinciding with the springing
of the aisle vaulting. Projecting above the ground at the same place is a square mass of stonework
that was left unbuilt upon when that rebuilding took place. The narthex is built of brick,
with bands of large stone at wide intervals, and is separated by distinct joints from the upper
and lower walls of the body of the church. Furthermore, while the two eastern bays on each
side of the western portion of the nave continue and belong to the unusual system of vaulting
followed in the aisles, the bay on each side immediately adjoining the narthex belongs to the
vaulting system found in the narthex, and has, towards the nave, an arch precisely similar
to the arches between the nave and the narthex. The division between the two systems is well
marked, both in the nave and in the aisles, and points clearly to the fact that the narthex
and the body of the church are of different dates.

Thus the architectural survey of the building shows that the principal parts of the fabric
represent work done upon it on three great occasions, a conclusion in striking accord with
the information already derived from history. For we have seen (p. 89) that after the destruction
of the original Constantinian church by fire in the Nika Riot, Justinian the Great erected
a new sanctuary upon the old foundations; that later in his reign another fire occurred which
necessitated the reconstruction of the narthex of that sanctuary; and that some two centuries
later, towards the close of the reign of Leo the Isaurian, the church was shaken by one of
the most violent earthquakes known in Constantinople, and subsequently restored probably by
that emperor or by his son and successor Constantine Copronymus. Accordingly, leaving minor
changes out of account, it is safe to suggest that the walls of the body of the church, up
to the springing of the aisle vaults, belong to the new church built by Justinian after the
Nika Riot in 532; while the narthex, the aisle vaults immediately adjoining it, and the upper
portion of the western end of the south wall, represent the repairs made probably by the same
emperor after the injuries to the fabric caused by the fire of 564. The earthquake of 740 must
therefore have shaken down or rendered unstable all the upper part of the building, but left
standing the narthex, the gallery above it, and the lower part of the walls of the church.
Consequently, the upper part of the building, the apse, the dome-arches, the dome-vault, and
the dome with its drum, belong to the reconstruction of the church after that earthquake.

The buttresses to the apse where it joins the main eastern wall are later additions, and still
later, but before Turkish times, are the short walls at the north and south-eastern corners
forming the small eastern chambers.

Of the building erected by Constantine the Great the only possible vestige is the square projection
at the north-eastern angle of the apse, but that is an opinion upon which much stress should
not be laid.

In harmony with these conclusions is the evidence afforded by the mosaics found in the church.
Those of the narthex are of the same character as the mosaics in S. Sophia, Constantinople,
and may well have been executed under Justinian. On the other hand, the mosaics in the apse
are characteristic of the iconoclastic period, the chief decoration there being a simple cross.
For, as Finlay[143] has remarked, Leo the Isaurian 'placed the cross on the reverse of many
of his gold, silver, and copper coins, and over the gates of his palace, as a symbol for universal
adoration.' A similar iconoclastic decoration and a portion of the same verses from Psalm lxv.
formed the original decoration of the apse in S. Sophia, Salonica.

Thus also is the presence of capitals bearing the monograms of Justinian and Theodora explained,
seeing those sovereigns were intimately connected with the church. And thus also is a reason
suggested why those monograms face the aisles instead of the nave; it was a position which
would be assigned to them by a later restorer of the church who was obliged to use old material,
and at the same time felt anxious to conceal the fact as much as possible, lest the glory of
the previous benefactors of the church should eclipse his own renown.

The conclusion that in the present building we have parts representing different periods solves
also the problem of the elliptical domical vault. For it is difficult to imagine that a Byzantine
architect with a free hand would choose to build such a vault. But given the supports Mr. George
believes were left standing after the earthquake of 740, and given also the narthex on the
west, the architect's liberty was limited, and he would be forced to cover the space thus bounded
in the best way the circumstances allowed.

How the western portion of the church was roofed in Justinian's time it is impossible to say
with certainty. There are buttress slips in the south wall at gallery level and in the nave
below, where the break occurs in the arcade, that suggest the existence, in the church as originally
built by Justinian, of a narthex carrying a gallery. In that case the length of the barrel
vault over the western part of the church would be about the length of the barrel vault over
the eastern part, and the church would then show in plan a regular cross with a dome at the
centre, two lateral doors, one of which is now built up, giving access to the ends of the narthex.

The dates here assigned to the different parts of the building simplify the problem of the
tall drum below the main dome. That this could have been built by Justinian, as has been supposed,
is difficult of belief if the large domes which are known to have been built by him are carefully
examined. It is true that the drum dome of S. Sophia, Salonica, has also been claimed for Justinian,
but that drum is low and only partially developed, and although its date is not known, the
consensus of opinion is against its being so early. The whole question of the development of
the drum still awaits treatment at the hands of an investigator who has thoroughly studied
the buildings themselves, and perhaps the publication of the results obtained by Mr. George
at S. Sophia, Salonica, and S. Irene, Constantinople, two crucial examples, will throw some
light on the subject. For the present the date here given for the drum of S. Irene (i.e. towards
the middle of the eighth century) is an inherently probable one.

In the foregoing description of S. Irene there is no pretence to an exhaustive statement of
facts, or any claim that the conclusions reached are final. There is still too much plaster
on the walls to permit a complete examination of the building. But the conclusions here suggested
are those which agree best with the evidence which has been brought to light by Mr. George
under present circumstances.

[118] Socrates, ii. c. 6; Corpus juris civilis, Nov. iii. c. 3. 2; Itin. russes, p. 119.

[119] Socrates, ii. c. 16. So also the author of the Vita Pauli Patr. C.P. The Church of S.
Irene, which the Anonymus (Banduri, ii. p. 31) says had once been a heathen temple, was the
church of S. Irene, [Greek: to perama].

[120] Notitia, regia secunda; Codin. De aed. p. 73.

[121] Socrates, loc. cit.

[122] Ibid.

[123] Banduri, ii. p. 52.

[124] Socrates, ii. c. 16.

[125] Socrates, ii. c. 16.

[126] Ibid. ii. 13, 15, 16.

[127] Ibid. v. 7.

[128] Vita S. Stephani Junioris, Migne, P.G. 100, col. 1144, [Greek: hê deutera en Kplei en
tô naô tês agias Eirênês].

[129] Theodore Lector, ed. Valesius (1748), p. 533. Eutychius afflicted by the divine anger
went [Greek: en tô euagei euktêriô entha pepisteutai anapauesthai meros hierôn leipsanôn tôn
thespesiôn Pantaleontos kai Marinou, epikaloumenou tou topou Homonoia ek tou ekei sunelthontas
tous hekaton pentêkonta episkopous epi Theodosiou tou megalou basileôs]. The passage is preserved
in John Damascene, De imaginibus, book iii.

[130] Notitia, Regio nona, 'continet in se ecclesias duas, Cenopolim et Omonaeam.'

[131] Banduri, ii. p. 25.

[132] Ad annum 478.

[133] Procop. De aed. i. c. 2; Pasch. Chron. p. 622.

[134] For this information I am indebted to Mr. W. S. George.

[135] Theoph. p. 371.

[136] Patr. Nicephorus, in Breviario.

[137] Theoph. p. 634.

[138] Mansi, xv. 211; xvi. p. 18. See Basile I. par Albert Vogt, p. 206.

[139] Const. Porphyr. De cer. p. 186; Cedren. ii. pp. 265, 275, 297. Readers of Russian are
referred to D. Belaev. 'The Church of S. Irene and the Earthquake in C.P. 28 June 1894,' Vizantisky
Vreinennik, i., St. Petersburg, 1894, parts iii.-iv. section iii. pp. 769-798, and the article
by the same author on the 'Interior and Exterior View of S. Irene' in the same periodical,
1895, parts i, ii. section i. pp. 177-183. For the references to these articles I am indebted
to Mr. Norman E. Baynes, one of our younger Byzantine scholars.

[140] Const. Porphyr. De Cer. p. 179.

[141] Only some of the accents are indicated in the transcription.

[142] These openings are now covered with Turkish wooden staging, and the passage is therefore
quite dark.

[143] History of the Byzantine Empire, p. 34, Everyman Edition.

CHAPTER V

THE CHURCH OF S. ANDREW IN KRISEI, HOJA MUSTAPHA PASHA MESJEDI

That the old Byzantine church now converted into the mosque styled Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi,
in the quarter of Juma Bazaar, at a short distance to the east of the Gate of Selivria was
the church of S. Andrew in Krisei ([Greek: Monê tou Hagiou Andreou en Krisei])[144] can be
established, by the indications which Byzantine writers have given of the site of that famous
church, and by the legend which is still associated with the mosque. According to Stephen of
Novgorod[145] (c. 1350) the church dedicated to S. Andrew of Crete, who was buried, as other
authorities[146] inform us, in the district named Krisis, stood at a short distance to the
north of the monastery of the Peribleptos. It lay, therefore, to the north of the Armenian
church of S. George (Soulou Monastir) in the quarter of Psamathia, which represents the church
of S. Mary Peribleptos. The mosque Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi lies in the same direction.
Again, according to Pachymeres,[147] the church of S. Andrew in Krisei was near the monastery
of Aristina. That monastery, another authority states,[148] was opposite the church of S. Mamas.
The church of S. Mamas was on the road between the Studion and the church of S. Andrew.[149]
Hence the church of S. Andrew stood to the north of the Studion, the situation occupied by
Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi. Once more, the site of the mosque corresponds to the position
assigned to the church of S. Andrew on the map of Bondelmontius (1420), to the east of the
Gate of Selivria. Finally, the old church is more definitely identified by the legend of the
judicial procedure which clings to the building. In the picturesque courtyard of the mosque,
where the colour of the East is still rich and vivid, there stands an old cypress tree around
whose bare and withered branches a slender iron chain is entwined like the skeleton of some
extinct serpent. As tradition would have it, the chain was once endowed with the gift of judgment,
and in cases of dispute could indicate which of the parties concerned told the truth. One day
a Jew who had borrowed money from a Turk, on being summoned to pay his debt, replied that he
had done so already. To that statement the Turk gave the lie direct, and accordingly, debtor
and creditor were brought to the chain for the settlement of the question at issue. Before
submitting to the ordeal, however, the Jew placed a cane into the hands of the Turk, and then
stood under the cypress confident that his honour for truthfulness and honesty would be vindicated.
His expectation proved correct, for the chain touched his head to intimate that he had returned
the money he owed. Whereupon taking back his cane he left the scene in triumph. Literally,
the verdict accorded with fact; for the cane which the Jew had handed to his creditor was hollow
and contained the sum due to the latter. But the verdict displayed such a lack of insight,
and involved so gross a miscarriage of justice, that from that day forth the chain lost its
reputation and has hung ever since a dishonoured oracle on the dead arms of the cypress, like
a criminal on a gibbet. Although this tale cannot be traced to its Byzantine source, it is
manifestly an echo of the renown which the precincts of the mosque once enjoyed as a throne
of judgment before Turkish times, and serves to prove that Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi is indeed
the old church of S. Andrew in Krisei.

The earliest reference to the locality known as Krisis occurs in the narrative of the martyrdom
of S. Andrew of Crete given by Symeon Metaphrastes,[150] who flourished in the latter part
of the ninth century. A devoted iconodule, S. Andrew, came from his native island to Constantinople,
in the reign of Constantine Copronymus (740-775), expressly to rebuke the emperor for opposing
the use of eikons in religious worship. As might have been anticipated, the zeal and courage
of the saint only incurred cruel and insulting treatment, and at length a martyr's death. For,
while his persecutors were dragging him one day along the streets of the city in derision,
a half-witted fisherman stabbed him dead with a knife. So strong was the feeling prevalent
at the time against the champion of the cause of eikons that his body was flung among the corpses
of murderers and thieves; but eventually his admirers succeeded in removing it from its foul
surroundings and buried it 'in a sacred place which was named Krisis' ([Greek: eis hena hieron
topon ho hopoios epônomazeto Krisis]).[151] It is evident from this statement that the name
Krisis was applied to the locality before the interment of S. Andrew there; how long before,
it is impossible to say, but probably from early times. The body of the martyr was laid in
or beside one of the two churches dedicated to saints also named S. Andrew, which stood on
the Seventh Hill of the city already in the sixth century.[152]

  NOTE

  One of these churches was dedicated to S. Andrew the Apostle, and
  stood 'near the column,' [Greek: plêsion tou stylou];[153] the other
  to S. Andrew, not otherwise identified, was near the Gate of
  Saturninus, [Greek: plêsion tês portas tou Satourninou].[154] It is
  difficult to decide which church is represented by the mosque. For
  there were two columns on the Seventh Hill of the city: the Column of
  Constantine the Great, which stood outside the city bounds, giving
  name to the extra-mural district of the Exokionion now Alti Mermer; and
  the Column of Arcadius now Avret Tash. Nor can the position of the
  Gate of Saturninus be determined more accurately than that it was an
  entrance in the portion of the Constantinian Walls which traversed the
  Seventh Hill, the Xerolophos of Byzantine days. On the whole, however,
  the indications favour the view that Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi
  represents the church of S. Andrew near the Gate of Saturninus. A
  church in that position, though outside the Constantinian
  fortification, was still so near them that it could be, very
  appropriately, described as near one of the city gates. Again the
  Russian pilgrims[155] who visited the shrines of Constantinople in the
  second quarter of the fifteenth century found two churches dedicated
  to S. Andrew in this part of the city, one to S. Andrew the Strategos,
  the other to S. Andrew 'mad with the love of God' ('God-intoxicated').
  In proceeding northwards from the church of S. Diomed, which stood
  near the Golden Gate (Yedi Koulé), the Russian visitor reached first
  the sanctuary dedicated to S. Andrew the Strategos, and then the
  church dedicated to S. Andrew the 'God-intoxicated,' which lay still
  farther to the north. But this order in the positions of the two
  churches implies that Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi represents the
  church of S. Andrew the Strategos, a martyr of the fourth century,
  viz. the church which the documents of the sixth century describe as
  near the Gate of Saturninus, without specifying by what title its
  patron saint was distinguished. This agrees, moreover, with what is
  known regarding the site of the church of S. Andrew the Apostle. It
  stood to the west of the cistern of Mokius,[156] the large ruined
  Byzantine reservoir, now Tchoukour Bostan, to the north of Hoja
  Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi.

The church does not appear again in history, under the designation [Greek: en krisei], until
the reign of Andronicus II. (1282-1328), when it was found, like so many other churches which
survived the Latin occupation of the city, in a state demanding extensive repair. It was then
embellished and enlarged by the protovestiarissa Theodora,[157] a lady who occupied a prominent
position in the society of the day, both as the emperor's cousin, and on account of her accomplishments
and character. In her early youth she was married to George Muzalon,[158] the favourite counsellor
and trusted friend of Theodore II. Ducas of Nicaea. What confidence Muzalon enjoyed may be
inferred from the fact that he was associated with the Patriarch Arsenius as guardian of the
emperor's son, John Lascaris, when left the heir to the throne of Nicaea, as a child eight
years old.[159] Had Muzalon not met with an untimely end he might have become the colleague
of his ward, and Theodora might have worn the imperial crown. The tragic murder of her husband
by his political opponents, while celebrating the obsequies of the Emperor Theodore, provoked
a terrible outburst of indignation and grief on her part,[160] and so vehement was her condemnation
of the criminals that her uncle, the treacherous Michael Palaeologus, threatened she would
share her husband's fate if she did not control her feelings.[161] After the accession of Michael
Palaeologus to the throne, her hand was bestowed on the protovestiarius Raoul, and hence she
is generally known by his name and title as Raoulaina the protovestiarissa ([Greek: hê Rhaoulaina
prôtobestiarissa]). One of her beautiful daughters became the wife of Constantine Palaeologus,
the ill-fated brother of Andronicus II. But, as already stated, Theodora was not only highly
connected. Like many noble ladies in Byzantine society, she cultivated learning,[162] and took
a deep interest in the theological discussions and ecclesiastical affairs of her day. She was
a devoted adherent of the party attached to the person and memory of the Patriarch Arsenius;
the party that never forgave Michael Palaeologus for blinding the young John Lascaris and robbing
him of the throne, the party that opposed the subjection of the Eastern Church to the Papal
See, and which maintained the freedom of the Church from the political interference of the
emperor. Whatever its faults, that party certainly represented the best moral life of the period.

To heal the schism caused by the attitude of the Arsenites 'was the serious labour of the Church
and State' for half a century. And in pursuance of the policy of conciliation, Andronicus II.
allowed the body of Arsenius to be brought to Constantinople from the island of Proconessus,
where he had died in exile and been buried. The whole city gathered to welcome the remains
of the venerated prelate, and saw them borne in solemn and stately procession from the landing
at the Gate of Eugenius (Yali Kiosk) to the church of S. Sophia. There, robed in pontifical
vestments, the body was first seated upon the patriarchal throne, then laid before the altar,
while the funeral service was intoned, and finally placed on the right hand of the bema in
a chest locked and sealed for safe keeping. Once a week, however, the body was exposed to public
view, and all strife seemed hushed in a common devotion to the memory of the saint. It was
soon after this event that Theodora restored the church and monastery of S. Andrew, and upon
the completion of the work she besought the emperor to allow the remains of Arsenius to be
transferred to that shrine. The request was granted, and the body was carried to the church
of St. Andrew with as great pomp and ceremony as attended its arrival in the capital. There
it was kept until the patriarchate of Niphon (1311-1314), when it was again taken to S. Sophia
to appear in the final conclusion of peace between the friends and foes of the deceased.[163]
Standing beside the remains, Niphon pronounced, in the name and by the authority of the dead
man, a general absolution for all offences committed in connection with the quarrels which
had raged around the name of Arsenius; and so long as S. Sophia continued to be a Christian
sanctuary the remains were counted among the great treasures of the cathedral. 'There,' to
quote the words of a devout visitor shortly before the Turkish conquest, 'is found the body
of the holy patriarch Arsenius, whose body, still intact, performs many miracles.'[164]

During the closing years of her life Theodora made the monastery or convent of S. Andrew in
Krisei her home.[165] To retire thus from the troubled sea of secular life to the haven of
a monastery, and there prepare for the voyage beyond earthly scenes, was a common practice
in the fashionable world of the men and women of Byzantine days. And it was natural for a wealthy
traveller to leave at the port of call some splendid token of devotion and gratitude. The protovestiarissa
was still an inmate of the monastery in 1289, when her friend the Patriarch Gregory, to whom
she was bound by many ties, was compelled to resign.[166] He was one of the most learned men
of his time and took an active part in the efforts to reconcile the Arsenites. It was during
his tenure of office that the body of Arsenius was brought to the capital, and subsequently
transferred from S. Sophia to the church of S. Andrew; he also opposed the union of the Churches,
and in the controversy regarding the 'Procession of the Holy Ghost' which divided Christendom,
he vigorously defended the doctrine of the Greek Communion against Veccus, who championed the
Latin Creed.

Strongly attached to her friends, and quick to resent any injustice to them, Theodora came
forward in the hour of the patriarch's disgrace and offered him a refuge in the monastery of
Aristina, which stood, as we have seen, near the church of S. Andrew and in the immediate neighbourhood
of her own residence.[167] It was a fortunate arrangement, for Gregory soon fell seriously
ill and required all the sympathy and generous kindness which Theodora was able to extend to
him.[168] Upon his death, ten short months after his retirement, Theodora determined to show
again her admiration for the man and his work by honouring his memory with a funeral befitting
the position he had held in the Church. She was prevented from carrying out her intention only
by the peremptory and reiterated commands of the emperor, that Gregory should be buried as
a private person.[169]

After the death of Theodora we have only occasional glimpses of the church and monastery. In
1350 Stephen of Novgorod came 'to kiss' the relics of S. Andrew of Crete, and describes the
convent as 'very beautiful.'[170] Once, at least, a sister proved too frail for her vocation;[171]
sometimes a devout and wealthy inmate, such as Theognosia,[172] would provide an endowment
to enable poor girls to become her heirs in religion; or the sisterhood was vexed by the dishonesty
of parties who had rented the lands from which the convent derived its revenues.[173] Towards
the end of its Byzantine period another Russian pilgrim[174] came to honour the remains of
S. Andrew the Strategos, and bring the Christian history of the church to a close. It was converted
into a mosque by Mustapha Pasha, Grand Vizier in the reign of Selim I. (1512-1520).[175] The
custom of illuminating the minarets of the mosques on the eve of the Prophet's birthday was
introduced first at this mosque.[176]

Architectural Features

On account of the serious changes made in the building and its surroundings when it became
a mosque, and after the earthquake of 1765, its real character is not immediately apparent.
The present entrance is in the northern side, where a fine Turkish arcade has been erected.
The mihrab is on the south side, a greater change for the correct orientation of a mosque than
is usually necessary in the adaptation of a church to the requirements of a sanctuary in which
the worshippers turn towards Mecca. To the east a hall has been added for the accommodation
of women who attend the services; while on the west is another hall, where the dervishes of
the Teké attached to the mosque hold their meetings. The north aisle also has been much altered
and is covered with Turkish domes.

The first impression produced by the interior of the building is that we have here a church
on the trefoil plan, similar to S. Mary of the Mongols (p. 272) or S. Elias of Salonica, for
the central area is flanked by two semi-domes, which with the eastern apse form a lobed plan
at the vaulting level. A closer examination of the building, however, will prove that we are
dealing with a structure whose original features have been concealed by extensive Turkish alterations,
and that the trefoil form is a superficial disguise.

The arches supporting the central dome on the north and south sides are filled in with semi-domes
which rest on arches thrown diagonally across the 'aisles' on each side of the central dome.
These arches are very clumsily set to the sides of an irregular hexagon, with the central wall
arch much larger than the side arches. They have no responds, and have every appearance of
being makeshifts.

The eastern dome arch is prolonged into a barrel-vaulted bema, flanked by shallow niches leading
to the prothesis and diaconicon, and beyond the bema is the semicircular apse. Only the diaconicon
now remains, covered by a cross-groined vault, and its apse pierced by a door leading to the
hall of the Teké. The place of the prothesis has been taken by a similar door and a small Turkish
dome.

The western dome arch is filled in with a triple arcade resting on two marble columns with
finely carved cubical capitals. Above the arcade is a group of three windows whose heads are
circular on the inside, but pointed on the outside. To the west of this arcade is an oblong
passage corresponding to the 'inner narthex' of S. Theodosia. It is in three bays. The central
long bay is barrel-vaulted; the two outer bays open into the north and south 'aisles'; the
bay to the north is covered by a Turkish dome, while that to the south has a cross-groined
vault which seems to be original.

Beyond this to the west is the outer narthex, a fine piece of work, and, from the character
of its details, of the same period as the western dome arcade. It is in five bays. The three
central bays correspond to the 'inner narthex'; the middle bay is covered by a low saucer dome
on pendentives, and is separated from the two side bays by columns set against flat pilasters.
The latter bays are covered by groined vaults springing from the imposts of the capitals, which
are of the Byzantine Ionic type, with high carved imposts. They resemble the capitals in the
gallery of SS. Sergius and Bacchus, and are worthy of particular notice.

The two outer bays are separated from the central compartment of three bays by strongly projecting
pilasters. They are covered by low saucer domes similar to the dome over the central bay, and
communicate on the east with the 'aisles.' Both outer and inner narthexes are in one story,
above which rise the windows of the western dome arch and the semi-domes on north and south.

Turning now to the exterior, the south wall is the only outer wall which is exposed at the
ground level. It is faced with finely dressed and polished stone, with thin joints, no tiles,
and a stone-moulded cornice. The windows are covered with four centred Turkish arches and are
evident insertions. Above the stone cornice rise the low drums of the semi-domes. These, as
well as the square base of the dome and the dome itself, are faced with polished stone alternating
with courses of three bricks set in thick beds of mortar. The angles are plain, without shafts,
and the drums, dome base, and dome are crowned with stone cornices moulded to a reversed ogee.

The north and south semi-domes are each pierced by three large windows, which on the interior
cut through the curved surface of the domes, and on the exterior appear as dormers in the roof
above the cornice. Accordingly they are double glazed, with one glazed frame on the inside
corresponding to the curved dome surface, and a second upright glazed frame on the outside.
The roofs are covered with lead.

The central dome is circular inside, with a high drum pierced by eight windows. On the outside
it is octagonal, with a window on each side. These have circular arched heads, but have no
moulding, shaft, or inset to either arches or sides. The dome is crowned by a moulded stone
cornice of the same type as that of the other walls.

In attempting to reconstruct the original form of the church we may first note those features
which are evidently Turkish. None of the exterior masonry is Byzantine, as the use of polished
ashlar with fine joints, of pointed arches, and of moulded stone cornices clearly proves. The
absence of shafts at the angles of the dome drums and the unrecessed windows are additional
proofs of this fact, and we may conclude that the entire exterior was refaced in Turkish times.

The diagonal arches under the north and south semi-domes are peculiar. Furthermore, in lobed
Byzantine churches the lateral apses project beyond the square outer walls. Here they are contained
within the walls.[177]

Nor are the semi-domes themselves Byzantine in character. The large windows in the dome surface
and the lead-covered dormers placed above the flat moulded cornice betray a Turkish hand; for
windows in the dome are universal in the great Turkish mosques, and the method of protecting
them on the exterior with wooden dormers is quite foreign to Byzantine ideas. The form of the
drums and cornices should be compared with the minor domes of the mosque of Sultan Bayazid.

A careful examination of the building has led to the following conclusions. The lateral semi-domes
with their supporting arches are a Turkish addition. The central dome, including the drum,
is probably entirely Turkish, and takes the place of an original ribbed dome. The two easternmost
domes in the north 'aisle' and those over the inner narthex and the prothesis are also Turkish,
and, as already stated, the exterior of the entire building. On the other hand, the eastern
apse, the dome arches, the arcade, and the windows above it on the west side of the dome, the
inner narthex with the ground vault to the south of it, and the entire outer narthex, are parts
of the original building, dating probably from the sixth or seventh century. It should be particularly
noticed that the windows over the western dome arcade are circular-headed inside, though they
have been provided with pointed heads on the outside in the process of refacing.

If we stand in the northern lateral apse and face the mihrab the reason for the alterations
is evident. The original Christian orientation is ignored, and the apses, in place of being
lateral, are terminal. To the left is the old apse left unaltered; to the right, the original
filling of the dome arch forms a 'nave-arcade' similar to that of the mosque of Sultan Bayazid;
while by means of the additional apses the building has been converted into a miniature imperial
mosque of the S. Sophia type, a distinctly clever piece of Turkish alteration.

In its original form the central dome was surrounded by an 'ambulatory' of one story formed
by the aisles and 'inner narthex.' Such a plan is common to both the domed basilica type and
the domed cross type, the difference depending upon the treatment of the cross arms above.
In both types, however, the side dome arches are invariably filled in with arcades similar
to that filling in the western arch of S. Andrew. We are therefore justified in restoring such
arcades here. The type thus restored differs from the domed cross church in that the cross
arms do not extend to the outer walls, and from the domed basilica in that the western dome
arch is treated in a similar manner to the lateral arches. To this type the term 'ambulatory
church' may be applied.

Adjoining the west end of the church is the fine cloister of the Teké of dervishes, probably
on the lines of the old monastery. All the columns around the court are Byzantine, and one
of them bears the inscription: the (column) of, Theophane--[Greek: hê tês Theôphanês] (Fig.
69). In the south wall is built a beautiful Byzantine doorway having jambs and lintel decorated
on the face with a broad undercut scroll of flat leaves and four-petalled flowers, running
between two rows of egg and dart, while on the intrados are two bands of floral ornaments separated
by a bead moulding. One of the bands is clearly a vine scroll. The method employed here, of
joining leaves to a centre so as to form spiral rosettes, is found also on some of the small
capitals in S. Sophia. Similar rosettes appear in the decoration of the doorway to the Holy
Sepulchre on the ivory in the Trivulce collection at Milan.[178]

[144] Pachym. ii. pp. 35, 123.

[145] Itin. russes, p. 122.

[146] Synax., October 17.

[147] Pachym. ii. p. 133.

[148] Typicon of George Kappodokes, quoted by the late lamented Père J. Pargoire in his masterly
article on the 'Suburb and the Churches of S. Mamas,' published in the Proceedings of the Institut
archéologique russe à Constantinople, vol. ix. fasc. 1, 32, 1904. In that article the writer
demonstrates the erroneousness of the commonly received opinion, maintained, I regret, also
in Byzantine Constantinople, pp. 89-90, that the suburb of S. Mamas was situated near Eyoub
to the west of the Blachernae quarter. Père Pargoire proves that the suburb stood on the European
shore of the Bosporus near Beshiktash. He also shows that the church of S. Mamas, near the
Gate Xylokerkou, stood within the landward walls, somewhere between the Studion and S. Andrew
in Krisei. Cf. Itinéraires russes, p. 102.

[149] The Anonymus (Banduri, iii. p. 54.) places S. Mamas, [Greek: ta Xylokerkou], within the
city, between the monastery of Gastria and that of S. Saviour in the Chora. The suburb of S.
Mamas he places (ut supra, pp. 57-58) outside the city between Galata and the Diplokionion
(Beshiktash). This is only one proof of the correctness of Père Pargoire's position. See Pargoire,
ut supra.

[150] Migne, Patr. Graec. tom. 115, Mensis Octobr. p. 1128.

[151] Synax., October 17.

[152] Mansi, Sacrorum conciliorum nova et amplissima collectio, viii. p. 882.

[153] Mansi, Sacrorum conciliorum nova et amplissima collectio, viii. p. 906.

[154] Itin. russes, p. 232.

[155] Ibid.

[156] Theoph. Cont. p. 323.

[157] Pachym. ii. p. 85; Niceph. Greg. i. pp. 167, 178.

[158] Niceph. Greg. i. pp. 167, 168.

[159] Pachym. i. p. 39.

[160] Ibid. pp. 55-63.

[161] Ibid. i. p. 108.

[162] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 178.

[163] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 262.

[164] Itin. russes, p. 226; cf. pp. 117, 135, 161, 201.

[165] Pachym. ii. p. 132.

[166] Ibid. ut supra.

[167] Pachym. ii. p. 133; Niceph. Greg. p. 178. According to the latter historian, Theodora
erected a special residence for Gregory near her monastery.

[168] Pachym. ut supra.

[169] Pachym. ut supra, p. 152.

[170] Itin. russes, p. 122.

[171] Miklosich et Müller, i. p. 548, year 1371.

[172] Ibid. ii. p. 353, year 1400.

[173] Ibid. ii. p. 506, year 1401.

[174] Itin. russes, p. 232.

[175] Paspates, [Greek: Byzantinai Meletai], p. 319.

[176] Ibid. p. 320.

[177] E.g. S. Elias, Salonica; Churches on Mt. Athos; S. Mary of the Mongols, Constantinople.
See plan, p. 279.

[178] See figure 26 in Diehl's Manuel d'art byzantin, p. 74. That author (pp. 313-14) assigns
the church of S. Andrew to the seventh century, but recognizes in it also features of the sixth
century.

CHAPTER VI

THE CHURCH OF S. MARY (PANACHRANTOS) OF LIPS, PHENERÉ ISA MESJEDI

The old Byzantine church, now Pheneré Isa Mesjedi, in the valley of the Lycus, to the south
of the mosque of Sultan Mehemed, should be identified as the church of the Theotokos of Lips,
although the Patriarch Constantius,[179] Scarlatus Byzantius and Paspates[180] identify that
church with Demirjilar Mesjedi, a building which lay to the east of the mosque of Sultan Mehemed,
but fell in the earthquake of 1904. According to the writers just cited, Pheneré Isa Mesjedi
is the church of the Theotokos Panachrantos which appears in connection with certain incidents
in the history of the Patriarch Veccus. In this view there is a curious mingling of truth and
error. For, as a matter of fact, Constantinople did possess a church dedicated to the Panachrantos
which had no connection with the monastery of Lips. But that church was not the building in
the valley of the Lycus; it stood in the immediate vicinity of S. Sophia. Furthermore, while
it is certain that there was in the city a church of the Panachrantos which had nothing whatever
to do with the monastery of Lips, it is equally true that the sanctuary attached to that monastery
was also dedicated to the Theotokos under the same style. In other words, Pheneré Isa Mesjedi
was the sanctuary attached to the monastery of Lips and was dedicated to the Theotokos Panachrantos,
but was not the church of that name with which it has been identified by the authorities above
mentioned.[181]

The correctness of these positions can be readily established. First, that a monastery of the
Panachrantos and the monastery of Lips were different Houses is evident from the express statements
of the pilgrim Zosimus to that effect. For, according to that visitor to the shrines of the
city, a monastery, 'de Panakhran,'[182] stood near S. Sophia, 'non loin de Sainte Sophie.'
Stephen of Novgorod refers to the monastery of the 'Panacrante'[183] also in the same connection.
And the proximity of the House to the great cathedral may be inferred likewise from the statements
of the pilgrim Alexander[184] and of the anonymous pilgrim.[185] On the other hand, Zosimus
speaks of the monastery of Lips, 'couvent de femmes Lipesi,'[186] as situated in another part
of the city. It was closely connected with the monastery of Kyra Martha,[187] from which to
S. Sophia was a far cry. The distinction of the two monasteries is, moreover, confirmed by
the historians Pachymeres[188] and Nicephorus Gregoras,[189] who employ the terms Panachrantos
and Lips to designate two distinct monastic establishments situated in different quarters of
the capital.

In the next place, the monastery of Lips did not stand at the point marked by Demirjilar Mesjedi.
The argument urged in favour of its position at that point is the fact that the monastery is
described as near the church of the Holy Apostles ([Greek: plêsion tôn hagiôn apostolôn]).
But while proximity to the Holy Apostles must mark any edifice claiming to be the monastery
of Lips, that proximity alone is not sufficient to identify the building. Pheneré[190] Isa
Mesjedi satisfies that condition equally well. But what turns the balance of evidence in its
favour is that it satisfies also every other condition that held true of the monastery of Lips.
That House was closely associated with the monastery of Kyra Martha, as Phrantzes[191] expressly
declares, and as may be inferred from the narratives of the Russian pilgrims.[192] That being
so, the position of Kyra Martha will determine likewise that of the monastery of Lips. Now,
Kyra Martha lay to the south of the Holy Apostles. For it was reached, says the anonymous pilgrim
of the fifteenth century[193] 'en descendent (du couvent) des Apôtres dans la direction du
midi'; while Stephen of Novgorod[194] reached the Holy Apostles in proceeding northwards from
the Kyra Martha. Hence the monastery of Lips lay to the south of the Holy Apostles, as Pheneré
Isa Mesjedi stands to the south of the mosque of Sultan Mehemed, which has replaced that famous
church.

With this conclusion agrees, moreover, the description given of the district in which the monastery
of Lips stood. It was a remote and quiet part of the city, like the district in which Pheneré
Isa Mesjedi is situated to-day; [Greek: pros ta tou Liba merê, topon apokismenon kai hêsychon].[194]
Furthermore, the monastery of Lips borrowed its name from its founder or restorer, Constantine
Lips;[196] and in harmony with that fact we find on the apse of one of the two churches which
combine to form Pheneré Isa Mesjedi an inscription in honour of a certain Constantine.[197]
Unfortunately the inscription is mutilated, and there were many Constantines besides the one
surnamed Lips. Still, the presence of the principal name of the builder of the monastery of
Lips on a church, which we have also other reasons to believe belonged to that monastery, adds
greatly to the cumulative force of the argument in favour of the view that Constantine Lips
is the person intended. But, if necessary, the argument can be still further strengthened.
The church attached to the monastery of Lips was dedicated to the Theotokos, as may be inferred
from the circumstance that the annual state visit of the emperor to that shrine took place
on the festival of the Nativity of the Virgin.[198] So likewise was the sanctuary which Pheneré
Isa Mesjedi represents, for the inscription it bears invokes her blessing upon the building
and its builder (Fig. 42). Would that the identity of all the churches in Constantinople could
be as strongly established.

It remains to add in this connection that while the monastery of Lips and that of the Panachrantos
associated with Veccus were different Houses, the churches of both monasteries were dedicated
to the Theotokos under the same attribute--Panachrantos, the Immaculate. The invocation inscribed
on Pheneré Isa Mesjedi addresses the Theotokos by that epithet. But to identify different churches
because of the same dedication is only another instance of the liability to allow similarity
of names to conceal the difference between things.

The distinction thus established between the two monasteries is important not only in the interests
of accuracy; it also throws light on the following historical incidents. In 1245 permission
was granted for the transference of the relics of S. Philip the Apostle from the church of
the Panachrantos to Western Europe. The document authorising that act was signed by the dean
of the church and by the treasurer of S. Sophia.[199] The intervention of the latter official
becomes more intelligible when we know that the monastery of the Panachrantos stood near S.
Sophia, and not, as Paspates maintains, at Pheneré Isa Mesjedi. Again, the Patriarch Veccus
took refuge on two occasions in the monastery of the Panachrantos, once in 1279 and again in
1282. He could do so readily and without observation, as the case demanded, when the shelter
he sought stood in the immediate vicinity of his cathedral and official residence. To escape
to a monastery situated in the valley of the Lycus was, under the circumstances, impracticable.

Constantine Lips was an important personage during the reign of Leo the Wise (886-912) and
of Constantine VII. Porphyrogenitus (912-956). Under the former emperor he held the offices
of protospatharius and domestic of the household. He also went on several missions to the Prince
of Taron, in the course of which romance mingled with politics, with the result that the daughter
of Lips became engaged to the son of the prince.[200] Upon the accession of Constantine Porphyrogenitus,
Lips came under a cloud, on suspicion of being implicated in the plot to raise Constantine
Ducas to the throne, and was obliged to flee the capital.[201] Eventually he was restored to
favour, and enjoyed the dignities of patrician, proconsul, commander of the foreign guard,
and drungarius of the fleet.[202] He fell in battle in the war of 917 between the Empire and
the Bulgarians under Symeon.[203]

The monastery of Lips was restored in the reign of Leo the Wise; the festival of the dedication
of the church being celebrated in the year 908, in the month of June.[204] The emperor honoured
the occasion with his presence, and attended a banquet in the refectory of the monastery. But
the happy proceedings had not gone far, when they were suddenly interrupted by a furious south-west
wind which burst upon the city and shook houses and churches with such violence that people
feared to remain under cover and imagined that the end of the world had come, until the storm
was allayed by a heavy downpour of rain. As the south-west wind was named Lips, it is not clear
whether the historians who mention this incident intend to explain thereby the origin of Constantine's
surname, or simply point to a curious coincidence.

Near the church Lips erected also a xenodocheion for the reception of strangers.[204] The monastery
is mentioned by the Anonymus of the eleventh century,[206] but does not appear again until
the recovery of the Empire from the Latins in 1261. In the efforts then made to restore all
things, it underwent repairs at the instance of the Empress Theodora,[207] the consort of Michael
Palaeologus, and from that time acquired greater importance than it had previously enjoyed.
Within its precincts, on the 16th of February 1304, a cold winter day, Theodora herself was
laid to rest with great pomp, and amid the tears of the poor to whom she had been a good friend.[208]
There, two years later, a splendid service was celebrated for the benefit of the soul of her
son Constantine Porphyrogenitus,[209] as some compensation for the cruel treatment he had suffered
at the hands of his jealous brother Andronicus. There, that emperor himself became a monk two
years before his death,[210] and there he was buried on the 13th of February 1332. The monastery
contained also the tomb of the Empress Irene,[211] first wife of Andronicus III., and the tomb
of the Russian Princess Anna[212] who married John VII. Palaeologus while crown prince, but
died before she could ascend the throne, a victim of the great plague which raged in Constantinople
in 1417. The monastery appears once more as the scene of a great religious revival, when a
certain nun Thomais, who enjoyed a great reputation for sanctity, took up her residence in
the neighbourhood. So large were the crowds of women who flocked to place themselves under
her rule that 'the monastery of Lips and Martha' was filled to overflowing.[213]

The church was converted into a mosque by Pheneré Isa, who died in 1496, and has undergone
serious alterations since that time.[214]

Architectural Features

The building comprises two churches, which, while differing in date and type, stand side by
side, and communicate with each other through an archway in their common wall, and through
a passage in the common wall of their narthexes. As if to keep the two churches more closely
together, they are bound by an exonarthex, which, after running along their western front,
returns eastwards along the southern wall of the south church as a closed cloister or gallery.

The North Church.--The north church is of the normal 'four column' type. The four columns which
originally supported the dome were, however, removed when the building was converted into a
mosque in Turkish times, and have been replaced by two large pointed arches which span the
entire length of the church. But the old wall arches of the dome-columns are still visible
as arched piercings in the spandrils of the Turkish arches. A similar Turkish 'improvement'
in the substitution of an arch for the original pair of columns is found in the north side
of the parecclesion attached to the Pammakaristos (p. 152). The dome with its eight windows
is likewise Turkish. The windows are lintelled and the cornice is of the typical Turkish form.
The bema is almost square and is covered by a barrel vault formed by a prolongation of the
eastern dome arch; the apse is lighted by a lofty triple window. By what is an exceptional
arrangement, the lateral chapels are as lofty both on the interior and on the exterior as is
the central apse, but they are entered by low doors. In the normal arrangement, as, for instance,
in the Myrelaion, the lateral chapels are low and are entered by vaults rising to the same
height as those of the angle chambers, between which the central apse rises higher both externally
and internally.

The chapels have niches arched above the cornice on three sides, and are covered by cross-groined
vaults which combine with the semicircular heads of the niches to produce a very beautiful
effect. To the east they have long bema arches flanked by two small semicircular niches, and
are lighted by small single windows.

The church is preceded by a narthex in three bays covered by cross-groined vaults supported
on strong transverse arches. At either end it terminates in a large semicircular niche. The
northern one is intact, but of the southern niche only the arched head remains. The lower part
of the niche has been cut away to afford access to the narthex of the south church. This would
suggest that, at least, the narthex of the south church is of later date than the north church.

Considered as a whole the north church is a good example of its type, lofty and delicate in
its proportions.

The South Church.--The narthex is unsymmetrical to the church and in its present form must
be the result of extensive alteration. It is in two very dissimilar bays. That to the north
is covered with a cross-groined vault of lath and plaster, probably on the model of an original
vault constructed of brick. A door in the eastern wall leads to the north aisle of the church.
The southern bay is separated from its companion by a broad arch. It is an oblong chamber reduced
to a figure approaching a square by throwing broad arches across its ends and setting back
the wall arches from the cornice. This arrangement allows the bay to be covered by a low drumless
dome. Two openings, separated by a pier, lead respectively to the nave and the southern aisle
of the church.

The interior of the church has undergone serious alterations since it has become a mosque,
but enough of the original building has survived to show that the plan was that of an 'ambulatory
church.'

Each side of the ambulatory is divided into three bays, covered with cross-groined vaults whose
springings to the central area correspond exactly to the columns of such an arcade as that
which occupies the west dome bay of S. Andrew (p. 114). We may therefore safely assume that
triple arcades originally separated the ambulatory from the central area and filled in the
lower part of the dome arches. The tympana of these arches above were pierced to north, south,
and west by three windows now built up but whose outlines are still visible beneath the whitewash
which has been daubed over them. The angles of the ambulatory are covered by cross vaults.

The pointed arches at present opening from the ambulatory to the central area were formed to
make the church more suitable for Moslem worship, as were those of the north church. In fact
we have here a repetition of the treatment of the Pammakaristos (p. 151), when converted into
a mosque. The use of cross-groined vaults in the ambulatory is a feature which distinguishes
this church from the other ambulatory churches of Constantinople and connects it more closely
with the domed-cross church. The vaults in the northern portion of the ambulatory have been
partially defaced in the course of Turkish repairs.

The central apse is lighted by a large triple window. It is covered by a cross-groined vault
and has on each side a tall shallow segmental niche whose head rises above the springing cornice.
Below this the niches have been much hacked away. The passages leading to the lateral chapels
are remarkably low, not more than 1.90 m. high to the crown of the arch.

The southern chapel is similar to the central apse, and is lighted by a large triple window.
The northern chapel is very different. It is much broader; broader indeed than the ambulatory
which leads to it, and is covered by barrel vaults. The niches in the bema only rise to a short
distance above the floor, not, as on the opposite side, to above the cornice. It is lighted
by a large triple window similar to those of the other two apses.

  From love for the mother of God ... beautiful temple ...
  Constantine; which splendid work ... of the shining heaven an
  inhabitant and citizen him show O Immaculate One; friendliness
  recompensing ... the temple ... the gift.

The outer narthex on the west of the two churches and the gallery on the south of the south
church are covered with cross-groined vaults without transverse arches. The wall of the south
church, which shows in the south gallery, formed the original external wall of the building.
It is divided into bays with arches in two and three orders of brick reveals, and with shallow
niches on the broader piers.

The exterior of the two churches is very plain. On the west are shallow wall arcades in one
order, on the south similar arcades in two orders. The northern side is inaccessible owing
to the Turkish houses built against it.

On the east all the apses project boldly. The central apse of the south church has seven sides
and shows the remains of a decoration of niches in two stories similar to that of the Pantokrator
(p. 235); the other apses present three sides. The carved work on the window shafts is throughout
good. An inscription commemorating the erection of the northern church is cut on a marble string-course
which, when complete, ran across the whole eastern end, following the projecting sides of the
apses. The letters are sunk and marked with drill holes.

Wulff is of opinion that the letters were originally filled in with lead, and, from the evidence
of this lead infilling, dates the church as late as the fifteenth century. But it is equally
possible that the letters were marked out by drill holes which were then connected with the
chisel, and that the carver, pleased by the effect given by the sharp points of shadow in the
drill holes, deliberately left them. The grooves do not seem suitable for retaining lead.

In the course of their history both churches were altered, even in Byzantine days. The south
church is the earlier structure, but shows signs of several rebuildings. The irregular narthex
and unsymmetrical eastern side chapels are evidently not parts of an original design. In the
wall between the two churches there are indications which appear to show the character of these
alterations and the order in which the different buildings were erected.

As has already been pointed out, the north side of the ambulatory in the south church, which
for two-thirds of its length is of practically the same width as the southern and western sides,
suddenly widens out at the eastern end and opens into a side chapel broader than that on the
opposite side. The two large piers separating the ambulatory from the central part of the north
church are evidently formed by building the wall of one church against the pre-existing wall
of the other. The easternmost pier is smaller and, as can be seen from the plan, is a continuation
of the wall of the north church. Clearly the north church was already built when the north-eastern
chapel of the south church was erected, and the existing wall was utilised. As the external
architectural style of the three apses of the south church is identical, it is reasonable to
conclude that this part of the south church also is later in date than the north church. For
if the entire south church had been built at the same time as the apses, we should expect to
find the lateral chapels similar. But they are not. The vaulting of the central apse and of
the southern lateral chapel are similar, while that of the northern chapel is different. On
the same supposition we should also expect to find a similar use of the wall of the north church
throughout, but we have seen that two piers representing the old wall of the south church still
remain. The narthex of the south church, however, is carried up to the line of the north church
wall.

The four column type is not found previous to the tenth century. The date of the north church
was originally given on the inscription, but is now obliterated. Kondakoff dates it in the
eleventh or twelfth century. Wulff would put it as late as the fifteenth. But if the view that
this church was attached to the monastery of Lips is correct, the building must belong to the
tenth century.

The ambulatory type appears to be early, and the examples in Constantinople seem to date from
the sixth to the ninth century. It may therefore be concluded that, unless there is proof to
the contrary, the south church is the earlier. In that case the southernmost parts of the two
large piers which separate the two churches represent the old outer wall of the original south
church, whose eastern chapels were then symmetrical. To this the north church was added, but
at some subsequent date the apses of the south church demanded repair and when they were rebuilt,
the north-eastern chapel was enlarged by the cutting away of the old outer wall. To this period
also belongs the present inner narthex. The fact that the head of the terminal niche at the
south end of the north narthex remains above the communicating door shows that the south narthex
is later. The outer narthex and south gallery are a still later addition.

[179] Ancient and Modern C.P. pp. 70, 79.

[180] Pp. 322, 325.

[181] To Mühlmann and Mordtmann, Esq. top. paragraph 127, belongs the credit of the identification
of Pheneré Isa Mesjedi with the monastery of Lips. But I have not seen any full statement of
their reasons for that opinion.

[182] Itin. russes, p. 202.

[183] Ibid. p. 119.

[184] Ibid. p. 162.

[185] Ibid. p. 230.

[186] Ibid. p. 205.

[187] Phrantzes, pp. 141; Itin. russes, pp. 205, 122, 234.

[188] i. p. 455; ii. p. 19.

[189] i. p. 160.

[190] Theoph. Cont. p. 371.

[191] Page 141.

[192] Itin. russes, pp. 205, 234.

[193] Ibid. p. 234.

[194] Ibid. p. 122.

[195] Du Cange, iv. p. 93, quoting the Life of Nicholas of the Studion. The district was named
[Greek: Merdosagarê], Leo Gramm. p. 280.

[196] Theoph. Cont. p. 371.

[197] See inscription, p. 131.

[198] Codinus, De officiis, p. 80.

[199] Du Cange, iv. p. 93.

[200] Const. Porphyr. De adm. imp. c. 43.

[201] Theoph. Cont. p. 384.

[202] Const. Porphyr. ut supra.

[203] Theoph. Cont. p. 389.

[204] Ibid. p. 371.

[205] Banduri, iii. p. 52.

[206] Ut supra.

[207] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 162.

[208] Pachym. i. p. 378.

[209] Ibid. p. 425.

[210] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 461.

[211] Cantacuz. i. p. 193.

[212] Phrantzes, p. 110.

[213] Ibid. p. 141.

[214] Paspates, p. 325.

CHAPTER VII

THE CHURCH OF THE THEOTOKOS PAMMAKARISTOS, FETIYEH JAMISSI

The Byzantine church, now Fetiyeh Jamissi, overlooking the Golden Horn from the heights of
the Fifth Hill, was the church of the Theotokos Pammakaristos (the All Blessed), attached to
the monastery known by that name.

Regarding the identity of the church there can be no manner of doubt, as the building remained
in the hands of the Greek community for 138 years after the conquest, and was during that period
the patriarchal cathedral.

The questions when and by whom the church was founded cannot be so readily determined. According
to a manuscript in the library of the Greek theological college on the island of Halki (one
of the small group of islands known as the Princes' Islands in the Sea of Marmora), an inscription
in the bema of the church ascribed the foundation of the building to John Comnenus and his
wife Anna.[215] The manuscript perished in the earthquake which reduced the college to a heap
of ruins in 1894, but the inscription had fortunately been copied in the catalogue of the library
before that disaster occurred. It read as follows:

  [Greek: Iôannou phrontisma Komnênou tode
  Annês te rhizês Doukikês tês syzygou.
  hois antidousa plousian, hagnê, charin
  taxais en oikô tou theou monotropous].[216]

The legend cannot refer to the Emperor John Comnenus (1118-1143), for his consort was neither
named Anna nor related to the family of Ducas. She was a Hungarian princess, who, on becoming
the emperor's bride, assumed the name Irene. Mr. Siderides, therefore, suggests that the persons
mentioned in the inscription were that emperor's grandparents, the curopalates and grand domestic
John Comnenus and his wife, the celebrated Anna Dalassena, who bore likewise the title of Ducaena.
In that case, as the curopalates and grand domestic died in 1067, the foundation of the church
cannot be much later than the middle of the eleventh century. But whether the term [Greek:
phrontisma] should be understood to mean that the church was founded by the illustrious persons
above mentioned, or was an object already in existence upon which they bestowed their thought
and care, is not quite certain. Mr. Siderides is prepared to adopt the latter meaning, and
the architecture of the church allows us to assign the foundation of the building to an earlier
date than the age of the grandparents of the Emperor John Comnenus. But while the connection
of the church with those personages must not be overlooked, the building underwent such extensive
repairs in the thirteenth century that the honour of being its founder was transferred to its
restorer at that period. Pachymeres[217] speaks of the monastery as the monastery of Michael
Glabas Tarchaniotes ([Greek: tên idian monên]). While the poet Philes (1275-1346), referring
to a figure portrayed on the walls of the church, asks the spectator,

  Seest thou, O stranger, this great man? He is none other than
  the protostrator, the builder of this monastery, the wonder of the
  world, the noble Glabas.

  [Greek: horas ton andra ton polyn touton, xene;
  ekeinos houtos estin ho prôtostratôr,
  ho dêmiourgos tês monês tês enthade,
  to thauma tês gês, ho Glabas ho gennadas].[218]

In accordance with these statements, Gerlach[219] saw depicted on the walls of the church two
figures in archducal attire, representing the founder of the church and his wife, with this
legend beside them:

  Michael Ducas Glabas Tarchaniotes, protostrator and founder;
  Maria Ducaena Comnena Palaeologina Blachena,[219] protostratorissa
  and foundress.

  [Greek: Michaêl Doukas Glabas Tarchaniôtês, ho prôtostratôr kai ktêtôr;
  Maria Doukaina Komnênê Palaiologina Blakaina,[220] hê prôtostratorissa
  kai ktêtôrissa].

Michael Glabas was created protostrator in 1292, and acquired the right to appoint the abbot
of the monastery before 1295. Consequently the completion of the repair of the church at his
instance must be assigned to the interval between these dates.

The protostrator Michael Glabas Ducas Tarchaniotes, who must not be confounded with his namesake
the protovestiarius Michael Palaeologus Tarchaniotes,[221] enjoyed the reputation of an able
general and wise counsellor in the reign of Andronicus II., although, being a victim to gout,
he was often unable to serve his country in the former capacity. He was noted also for his
piety and his interest in the poor, as may be inferred from his restoration of the Pammakaristos
and the erection of a xenodocheion.[222] His wife was a niece of the Emperor Michael Palaeologus,
and related, as her titles imply, to other great families in the country. A pious woman, and
devoted to her husband, she proved the sincerity of her affection by erecting to his memory,
as will appear in the sequel, the beautiful chapel at the south-east end of the church. Before
her death she retired from the world and assumed the name Martha in religion.[223]

In addition to the figures of the restorers of the church, portraits in mosaic of the Emperor
Andronicus and his Empress Anna, as the legends beside the portraits declared, stood on the
right of the main entrance to the patriarchate.[224]

  [Symbol: Cross][Greek: Andronikos en Chô tô thô pistos basileus kai
    autokratôr Rhômeôn ho palaiologos].

  [Symbol: Cross][Greek: Anna en Chô tô thô pistê augousta hê
    palaiologina].

As both Andronicus II. and his grandson Andronicus III. were married to ladies named Anna,
it is not clear which of these imperial couples was here portrayed. The fact that the consort
of the former emperor died before the restoration of the church by the protostrator Michael
is certainly in favour of the view supported by Mr. Siderides that the portraits represented
the latter emperor and empress.[224] Why these personages were thus honoured is not explained.

Having restored the monastery, Michael Glabas entrusted the direction of its affairs to a certain
monk named Cosmas, whom he had met and learned to admire during an official tour in the provinces.
In due time Cosmas was introduced to Andronicus II., and won the imperial esteem to such an
extent as to be appointed patriarch.[226] The new prelate was advanced in years, modest, conciliatory,
but, withal, could take a firm stand for what he considered right. On the other hand, the piety
of Andronicus was not of the kind that adheres tenaciously to a principle or ignores worldly
considerations. Hence occasions for serious differences between the two men on public questions
were inevitable, and in the course of their disputes the monastery of the Pammakaristos, owing
to its association with Cosmas, became the scene of conflicts between Church and State.

No act of Andronicus shocked the public sentiment or his day more painfully than the political
alliance he cemented by giving his daughter Simonis, a mere child of six years, as a bride
to the Kraal of Servia, who was forty years her senior, and had been already married three
times, not always, it was alleged, in the most regular manner.[227] Cosmas did everything in
his power to prevent the unnatural union, and when his last desperate effort to have an audience
of the emperor on the subject was repelled, he left the patriarchal residence and retired to
his old home at the Pammakaristos. There, during the absence of the emperor in Thessalonica,
where the objectionable marriage was celebrated, Cosmas remained for two years, attending only
to the most urgent business of the diocese.[228] Upon the return of Andronicus to the capital,
Cosmas was conspicuous by his refusal to take part in the loyal demonstrations which welcomed
the emperor back. Andronicus might well have seized the opportunity to remove the patriarch
from office for discourtesy so marked and offensive, but, instead of doing so, he sent a friendly
message to the Pammakaristos, asking Cosmas to forget all differences and resume his public
duties. Achilles in his tent was not to be conciliated so easily. To the imperial request Cosmas
replied by inviting Andronicus to come to the Pammakaristos, and submit the points at issue
between the emperor and himself to a tribunal of bishops and other ecclesiastics specially
convened for the purpose. He furthermore declared that he would return to the patriarchal residence
only if the verdict of the court was in his favour, otherwise he would resign office. The public
feeling against Andronicus was so strong that he deemed it expedient to comply with this strange
demand, going to the monastery late at night to escape notice. The tribunal having been called
to order, Cosmas produced his charges against the emperor: the Servian marriage; oppressive
taxes upon salt and other necessaries of life, whereby a heavy burden was laid upon the poor,
on one hand, and imperial prodigality was encouraged on the other; failure to treat the petitions
addressed to him by Cosmas with the consideration which they deserved. The defence of Andronicus
was skilful. He maintained that no marriage of the Kraal had violated Canon Law as some persons
claimed. He touched the feelings of his audience by dwelling upon the sacrifice he had made
as a father in bestowing the hand of a beloved daughter on such a man as the Servian Prince;
only reasons of State had constrained him to sanction a union so painful to his heart. The
taxes to which objection had been taken were not imposed, he pleaded, to gratify any personal
love of money, but were demanded by the needs of the Empire. As to love of money, he had reasons
to believe that it was a weakness of which his accuser was guilty, and to prove that statement,
he there and then sent two members of the court to the treasurer of the palace for evidence
in support of the charge. In regard to the accusation that he did not always favour the petitions
addressed to him by the patriarch, he remarked that it was not an emperor's duty to grant all
the petitions he received, but to discriminate between them according to their merits. At the
same time he expressed his readiness to be more indulgent in the future. Moved by these explanations,
as well as by the entreaties of the emperor and the bishops present at this strange scene,
held in the dead of night in the secrecy of the monastery, Cosmas relented, and returned next
day to the patriarchate.[229]

But peace between the two parties was not of long duration. Only a few weeks later Andronicus
restored to office a bishop of Ephesus who had been canonically deposed. Cosmas protested,
and when his remonstrances were disregarded, he withdrew again to the Pammakaristos,[230] and
refused to allow his seclusion to be disturbed on any pretext. To the surprise of everybody,
however, he suddenly resumed his functions--in obedience, he claimed, to a Voice which said
to him, 'If thou lovest Me, feed My sheep.'[231] But such conduct weakened his position. His
enemies brought a foul charge against him. His demand for a thorough investigation of the libel
was refused. And in his vexation he once more sought the shelter of the Pammakaristos, abdicated
the patriarchal throne, and threw the ecclesiastical world into a turmoil.[232] Even then there
were still some, including the emperor, who thought order and peace would be more speedily
restored by recalling Cosmas to the office he had laid down. But the opposition to him had
become too powerful, and he was compelled to bid farewell to the retreat he loved, and to end
his days in his native city of Sozopolis, a man worsted in battle.[233]

Of the life at the Pammakaristos during the remainder of the period before the Turkish conquest
only a few incidents are recorded. One abbot of the monastery, Niphon, was promoted in 1397
to the bishopric of Old Patras, and another named Theophanes was made bishop of the important
See of Heraclea. An instance of the fickleness of fortune was brought home to the monks of
the establishment by the disgrace of the logothetes Gabalas and his confinement in one of their
cells, under the following circumstances:--In the struggle between John Cantacuzene and Apocaucus
for ascendancy at the court of the Dowager Empress Anna of Savoy and her son, John VI. Palaeologus,
Gabalas[234] had been persuaded to join the party of the latter politician by the offer, among
other inducements, of the hand of Apocaucus' daughter in marriage. But when Gabalas urged the
fulfilment of the promise, he was informed that the young lady and her mother had meantime
taken a violent aversion to him on account of his corpulent figure. Thereupon Gabalas, like
a true lover, had recourse to a method of banting recommended by an Italian quack. But the
treatment failed to reduce the flesh of the unfortunate suitor; it only ruined his health,
and made him even less attractive than before. Another promise by which his political support
had been gained was the hope that he would share the power which Apocaucus should win. But
this Apocaucus was unwilling to permit, alleging as an excuse that his inconvenient partisan
had become obnoxious to the empress. The disappointment and anxiety caused by this information
wore so upon the mind of the logothetes as to alter his whole appearance. He now became thin
indeed, as if suffering from consumption, and in his dread of the storm gathering about him
he removed his valuable possessions to safe hiding. Whereupon the wily Apocaucus drew the attention
of the empress to this strange behaviour, and aroused her suspicions that Gabalas was engaged
in some dark intrigue against her. No wonder that the logothetes observed in consequence a
marked change in the empress's manner towards him, and in his despair he took sanctuary in
S. Sophia, and assumed the garb of a monk. The perfidy of Apocaucus might have stopped at this
point, and allowed events to follow their natural course. But though willing to act a villain's
part, he wished to act it under the mask of a friend, to betray with a kiss. Accordingly he
went to S. Sophia to express his sympathy with Gabalas, and played the part of a man overwhelmed
with sorrow at a friend's misfortune so well that Gabalas forgot for a while his own griefs,
and undertook the task of consoling the hypocritical mourner. Soon an imperial messenger appeared
upon the scene with the order for Gabalas to leave the church and proceed to the monastery
of the Pammakaristos. And there he remained until, on the charge of attempting to escape, he
was confined in a stronger prison.

Another person detained at the Pammakaristos was a Turkish rebel named Zinet, who in company
with a pretender to the throne of Mehemed I., had fled in 1418 to Constantinople for protection.
He was welcomed by the Byzantine Government, which was always glad to receive refugees whom
it could use either to gratify or to embarrass the Ottoman Court, as the varying relations
between the two empires might dictate. It was a policy that proved fatal at last, but meanwhile
it often afforded some advantage to Byzantine diplomats. On this occasion it was thought advisable
to please the Sultan, and while the pretender was confined elsewhere, Zinet, with a suite of
ten persons, was detained in the Pammakaristos. Upon the accession of Murad II., however, the
Government of Constantinople thought proper to take the opposite course. Accordingly the pretender
was liberated, and Zinet sent to support the Turkish party which disputed Murad's claims. But
life at the Pammakaristos had not won the refugee's heart to the cause of the Byzantines. The
fanatical monks with whom he was associated there had insulted his faith; his Greek companions
in arms did not afford him all the satisfaction he desired, and so Zinet returned at last to
his natural allegiance. The conduct of the Byzantine Government on this occasion led to the
first siege of Constantinople, in 1422, by the Turks.

The most important event in the history of the monastery occurred after the city had fallen
into Turkish hands. The church then became the cathedral of the patriarchs of Constantinople.
It is true that, in the first instance, the conqueror had given the church of the Holy Apostles
to the Patriarch Gennadius as a substitute for the church of S. Sophia. But the native population
did not affect the central quarters of the city, preferring to reside near the Golden Horn
and the Sea of Marmora. Furthermore, the body of a murdered Turk was discovered one morning
in the court of the Holy Apostles, and excited among his countrymen the suspicion that the
murder had been committed by a Christian hand.[235] The few Greeks settled in the neighbourhood
were therefore in danger of retaliation, and Gennadius begged permission to withdraw to the
Pammakaristos, around which a large colony of Greeks, who came from other cities to repeople
the capital, had settled.[236] The objection that nuns occupied the monastery at that moment
was easily overcome by removing the sisterhood to the small monastery attached to the church
of S. John in Trullo (Achmed Pasha Mesjedi) in the immediate vicinity,[237] and for 138 years
thereafter the throne of seventeen patriarchs of Constantinople stood in the church of the
Pammakaristos, with the adjoining monastery as their official residence.[238]

As the chief sanctuary of the Greek community, the building was maintained, it would appear,
in good order and displayed considerable beauty. 'Even at night,' to quote extravagant praise,
'when no lamp was burning, it shone like the sun.' But even sober European visitors in the
sixteenth century agree in describing the interior of the church as resplendent with eikons
and imperial portraits. It was also rich in relics, some of them brought by Gennadius from
the church of the Holy Apostles and from other sanctuaries lost to the Greeks. Among the interesting
objects shown to visitors was a small rude sarcophagus inscribed with the imperial eagle and
the name of the Emperor Alexius Comnenus.[239] It was so plain and rough that Schweigger speaks
of it as too mean to contain the dust of a German peasant.[240] But that any sarcophagus professing
to hold the remains of Alexius Comnenus should be found at the Pammakaristos is certainly surprising.
That emperor was buried, according to the historian Nicetas Choniates, in the church of S.
Saviour the Philanthropist,[241] near the palace of Mangana, on the east shore of the city.
Nor could the body of a Byzantine autocrator have been laid originally in a sarcophagus such
as Breüning and Schweigger describe. These difficulties in the way of regarding the monument
as genuine are met by the suggestion made by Mr. Siderides, that when the church of Christ
the Philanthropist was appropriated by the Turks in connection with the building of the Seraglio,
some patriotic hand removed the remains of Alexius Comnenus from the splendid coffin in which
they were first entombed, and, placing them in what proved a convenient receptacle, carried
them for safe keeping to the Pammakaristos. The statement that Anna Comnena, the celebrated
daughter of Alexius Comnenus, was also buried in this church rests upon the misunderstanding
of a passage in the work of M. Crusius, where, speaking of that princess, the author says:
'Quae (Anna) anno Domini 1117 vixit; filia Alexii Comneni Imp. cujus sepulchrum adhuc exstat
in templo patriarchatus Constantinopli a D. Steph. Gerlachio visum.'[242]

But cujus (whose) refers, not to Anna, but to Alexius. This rendering is put beyond dispute
by the statement made by Gerlach in a letter to Crusius, that he found, in the Pammakaristos,
'sepulchrum Alexii Comneni [Greek: autokratoros],' the tomb of the Emperor Alexius Comnenus.[243]

The church was converted into a mosque under Murad III. (1574-1592), and bears the style Fetiyeh,
'of the conqueror,' in honour of the conquest of Georgia and Azerbaijan during his reign. According
to Gerlach, the change had been feared for some time, if for no other reason, because of the
fine position occupied by the church. But quarrels between different factions of the Greek
clergy and between them and Government officials had also something to do with the confiscation
of the building.[244] When the cross, which glittered above the dome and gleamed far and wide,
indicating the seat of the chief prelate of the Orthodox Communion, was taken down, 'a great
sorrow befell the Christians.'[244] The humble church of S. Demetrius Kanabou, in the district
of Balat, then became the patriarchal seat until 1614, when that honour was conferred upon
the church which still retains it, the church of S. George in the quarter of Phanar.

Architectural Features

Owing to the numerous additions and alterations introduced into the original fabric, both before
and since the Turkish conquest, the original plan of the building is not immediately apparent.
Nor does the interior, with its heavy piers, raised floor, and naked walls correspond to the
accounts given of its former splendour and beauty. A careful study will, however, unravel the
tangled scheme which the actual condition of the church presents, and detect some traces of
the beauty which has faded and passed away. The building might be mistaken for a domed church
with four aisles, two narthexes, and a parecclesion. But notwithstanding all the disguises
due to the changes it has undergone, the original church was unquestionably an 'ambulatory'
church. It had, moreover, at one time a third narthex, of which now only the foundations remain
on the west side of the church. The present outer narthex is in five bays, covered by dome
vaults on transverse arches, and is paved with hexagonal tiles. The centre bay is marked by
transverse arches of greater breadth and projects slightly on the outside, forming a plain
central feature. At the north end a door led to the third narthex, but has now been built up;
at the south end is a door inserted in Turkish times. To the south of the central bay the exterior
is treated with plain arcades in two orders of brick; to the north these are absent, probably
on account of some alterations. At the south end the narthex returns round the church in two
bays, leading to the parecclesion.

The inner narthex is in four bays covered with cross-groined vaults without transverse arches,
and is at present separated from the body of the church by three clumsy hexagonal piers, on
to which, as may be seen in the photograph (Plate XXXVII.), the groins descend in a very irregular
manner.

In the inner part of the church is a square central area covered by a lofty drum-dome of twenty-four
concave compartments, alternately pierced by windows. The intermediate compartments correspond
to the piers, and the dome is therefore twelve-sided on the exterior with angle half columns
and arches in two orders. Internally the dome arches are recessed back from the lower wall
face and spring from a heavy string-course. They were originally pierced on the north, south,
and west sides by three windows similar to those in the west dome arch of S. Andrew (p. 114).

The west side is now occupied by the wooden balcony of a Turkish house built over the narthex,
but there are no indications of any gallery in that position.

Below the dome arches the central area communicates with the surrounding ambulatory on the
north, west, and south sides by large semicircular arches corbelled slightly out from the piers.

On the east side the dome arch is open from floor to vault, and leads by a short bema to a
five-sided space covered by a dome and forming a kind of triangular apse, on the south-eastern
side of which is the mihrab. As is clearly shown by the character of its dome windows and masonry,
this structure is a Turkish addition taking the place of the original three eastern apses,
and is a clever piece of planning to alter the orientation of the building.

The ambulatory on the three sides of the central square is covered by barrel vaults on the
sides and with cross-groined vaults at the angles. To the east it opened into the eastern lateral
chapels, now swept away, though the passage from the prothesis to the central apse still remains.

On the north side of the church is a passage in three bays covered by dome vaults on transverse
arches, communicating at the west end with the inner narthex, and at the east terminating in
a small chapel covered by an octagonal drum dome. The upper part of the apse of the chapel
is still visible on the exterior, but the lower part has been destroyed and its place taken
by a Turkish window.

The floor of the eastern part of the church is raised a step above the general level, this
step being carried diagonally across the floor in the centre part so as to line with the side
of the apse containing the mihrab.

In considering the original form of the church there is yet another important point to be noted.
It will be seen from the plan that at the ground level the central area is not cruciform, but
is rather an oblong from east to west with large arches on the north and south sides. This
oblong is, however, reduced to a square at the dome level by arches thrown across the east
and west ends, and this, in conjunction with the setting back of the dome arches already mentioned,
produces a cruciform plan at the springing level. The oblong character of the central area
is characteristic of the domed basilica and distinguishes this church from S. Andrew or S.
Mary Panachrantos. The employment of barrel vaults in the ambulatory is also a point of resemblance
to the domed basilica type, though the cross groin is used on the angles.[246] In this feature
S. Mary Pammakaristos resembles S. Andrew and differs from S. Mary Panachrantos. We are probably
justified in restoring triple arcades in all the three lower arches similar to the triple arcade
which still remains in S. Andrew. The present arches do not fit, and are evidently later alterations
for the purpose of gaining internal space as at the Panachrantos.

The hexagonal piers between the ambulatory and the inner narthex are not original, as is evident
from the clumsy manner in which the vaulting descends on to them. They are the remains of the
old western external wall of the church left over when it was pierced through, probably in
Turkish times, to include the narthex in the interior area of the building. The piers between
the ambulatory and the gallery on the north side of the church also seem to be due to openings
made for a similar reason in the old northern wall of the church when that gallery was added
in Byzantine days. The dotted lines on the plan show the original form of the piers and wall,
as shown by the outline of the vault springings above. The inner narthex is later than the
central church and is of inferior workmanship. The restored plan shows the probable form of
the church at that date. The outer narthex was added at a subsequent period.

The Parecclesion.--The parecclesion forms a complete church of the 'four column' type with
a narthex and gynecaeum on the west. On the north side the two columns supporting the dome
arches have been removed, and their place is taken by a large pointed Turkish arch which spans
the chapel from east to west as is done in the north church of the Panachrantos (p. 129). The
southern columns are of green marble with bases of a darker marble and finely carved capitals
both bedded in lead. One of these columns, that to the east, has been partly built into the
mihrab wall. The arms of the cross and the western angle compartments are covered with cross-groined
vaults, while the eastern angle compartments have dome vaults. The bema and the two lateral
chapels have cross-groined vaults. As usual the apse is semicircular within and shows to the
exterior seven sides, the three centre sides being filled with a triple window with carved
oblong shafts and cubical capitals.

Internally the church is divided by string-courses at the abacus level of the columns and at
the springing level of the vaults into three stories. The lowest story is now pierced by Turkish
windows but was originally plain; the middle story is pierced by single-light windows in each
of the angle compartments, and in the cross arm by a three-light window of two quarter arches
and a central high semicircular arch, similar to those in the narthex of the Chora. The highest
story has a single large window in the cross arm.

To the east the bema arch springs from the abacus level and all three apses have low vaults,
a somewhat unusual arrangement. This allows of an east window in the tympanum of the dome arch
above the bema.

The dome is in twelve bays, each pierced by a window and separated by flat projecting ribs.
It retains its mosaics, representing Christ in the centre surrounded by twelve prophets. Each
prophet holds in his hand a scroll inscribed with a characteristic quotation from his writings.
The drawing, for which I am indebted to the skill and kindness of Mr. Arthur E. Henderson,
gives an excellent idea of the scheme of the mosaics.

Speaking of these mosaics, Diehl remarks that we have here, as in the Chora, indications of
the Revival of Art in the fourteenth century. The Christ in the centre of the dome is no longer
represented as the stern and hard Pantokrator, but shows a countenance of infinite benignity
and sweetness. The lower window is a Turkish insertion, and above it, rising from the vaulting
string-course at the level of the abacus course in the church, is a triple window of the type
already described.

Above the narthex and approached by a narrow stair in the thickness of the west wall is the
small gynecaeum. It is in three bays, separated by strong transverse arches resting on pilasters,
each bay having a deep recess to east and west. The centre bay is covered by a cross-groined
vault, and overlooks the church by a small window pierced in the west cross arm. Each of the
side bays is covered by a drum dome of sixteen concave bays pierced with eight windows and
externally octagonal. The plaster has fallen away from these bays, allowing us to see that
they are built in regular courses of brick with thick mortar joints and without any special
strengthening at the lines of juncture or ribs between the compartments. Such domes, therefore,
are not strictly ribbed domes but rather domes in compartments. The 'ribs' no doubt do, by
their extra thickness, add to the strength of the vault, but here, as in most Byzantine domes,
their purpose is primarily ornamental.

The exterior of the chapel, like the façade of S. Theodore (p. 247), presents a carefully considered
scheme of decoration, characteristic of the later Byzantine school both here and in the later
schools outside Constantinople. The southern wall is divided externally as it is also internally,
into three stories, and forms two main compartments corresponding to the narthex and to the
cross arm. They are marked by high arches of two orders, which enclose two triple windows in
the upper story of the narthex and of the cross arm. The clue to the composition is given by
the middle story, which contains the two large triple windows of the narthex and of the cross
arm, and the two single lights of the angle compartment, one on each side of the cross arm
triple light. These windows are enclosed in brick arches of two orders and linked together
by semicircular arched niches, of which those flanking the narthex window are slightly larger
than the rest, thus giving a continuous arcade of a very pleasant rhythmic quality.

In the lower story the piers of the arches round the triple windows are alone carried down
through the inscribed string-course which separates the stories and forms the window-sill.
The system of niches is repeated, flat niches being substituted for the angle compartment windows
above.

The highest story contains the large single windows which light the cross arm and the gynecaeum,
the former flanked by two semicircular niches, the latter by two brick roundels with radiating
joints. Between them, above the west angle compartment window, is a flat niche with a Turkish
arch. It is possible that there was originally a break here extending to the cornice, and that
this was filled up during Turkish repairs. The cornice has two ranges of brick dentils and
is arched over the two large windows. The domes on the building have flat angle pilasters supporting
an arched cornice.

The masonry is in stripes of brick and stone courses, with radiating joints to the arched niches
and a zigzag pattern in the spandrils of the first-story arches. At this level are four carved
stone corbels with notches on the upper side, evidently to take a wooden beam. These must have
supported the roof of an external wood cloister. The inscribed string-course already mentioned
between the ground and first stories bears a long epitaph in honour of Michael Glabas Tarchaniotes.[248]
(Fig. 49.)

The three apses at the east end are of equal height. The side ones are much worn but were apparently
plain. The centre apse is in three stories with alternately flat and circular niches in each
side. It is crowned by a machicolated cornice similar to that on the east end of S. Theodosia.

The general composition, as will be seen from the description, arises very directly from the
internal arrangements of the chapel and is extremely satisfactory. The ranges of arches, varying
in a manner at first irregular, but presently seen to be perfectly symmetrical, give a rhythmic
swing to the design. The walls are now heavily plastered and the effect of the horizontal bands
of brick and stone is lost; but even in its present state the building is a very delightful
example of Byzantine external architecture.

Evidently the foundress of the chapel wished the monument she reared to her husband's memory
to be as beautiful both within and without as the taste and skill of the times could make it.

What information we have in regard to the chapel is little, but clear and definite, resting
as it does on the authority of the two epitaphs which the poet Philes composed to be inscribed
on the interior and exterior walls of the building. One of the epitaphs, if ever placed in
position, has been destroyed or lies concealed under Turkish plaster. Of the other only fragments
remain, forming part of the scheme of decoration which adorns the south wall of the chapel.
But fortunately the complete text of both epitaphs is preserved in the extant writings of their
author, and affords all the information they were meant to record. The chapel was dedicated
to Christ as the Logos[249] and was built after the death of the protostrator by his wife Maria,
or Martha in religion, for a mausoleum in which to place his tomb.[250] As the protostrator
died about 1315, the chapel was erected soon after that date. An interesting incident occurred
in this chapel soon after the Turkish conquest. One day when the Sultan was riding through
his newly acquired capital he came to the Pammakaristos, and upon being informed that it was
the church assigned to the Patriarch Gennadius, alighted to honour the prelate with a visit.
The meeting took place in this parecclesion, and the conversation, of which a summary account
was afterwards sent to the Sultan, dwelt on the dogmas of the Christian Faith.[251]

The text of the epitaph, portions of which appear on the exterior face of the south wall of
the parecclesion of the church of the Pammakaristos (Carmina Philae, ccxxiii. ed. Miller, vol.
i. pp. 117-18) reads as follows:--

  [Greek: Aner, to phôs, to pneuma, to prosphthegma mou,
  kai touto soi to dôron ek tês syzygou;
  sy men gar hôs agrypnos en machais leôn
  hypnois, hypelthôn anti lochmês ton taphon;
  egô de soi teteucha petraian stegên,            5
  mê palin heurôn ho stratos se syncheê,
  kan deuro ton choun ektinaxas ekrybês,
  ê tou pachous rheusantos hêrpagês anô,
  pan hoplon apheis ekkremes tô pattalô;
  tas gar epi gês ebdelyxô pastadas              10
  en eutelei tribôni phygôn bion
  kai pros noêtous antetaxô satrapas,
  sterrhan metendys ek theou panteuchian.
  hôs ostreon goun organô soi ton taphon,
  ê kochlon ê kalyka kentrôdous batou;           15
  margare mou, porphyra, gês allês rhodon,
  ei kai trygêthen ekpiezê tois lithois
  hôs kai stalagmous proxenein moi dakryôn,
  autos de kai zôn kai Theon zônta blepôn
  hôs nous katharos tôn pathôn tôn ex hylês      20
  ton son palin thalamon eutrepize moi;
  hê syzygos prin tauta soi Martha graphei,
  prôtostrator kalliste kai tethammenôn].[252]

  O my husband, my light, my breath, whom I now greet.
  This gift to thee also is from thy wife.
  For thou indeed who wast like a sleepless lion in battles
  Sleepest, having to endure the grave, instead (of occupying) thy lair.
  But I have erected for thee a dwelling of stone,
  Lest the army finding thee again, should trouble thee,
  Although here thou art hidden, having cast off thy (body of) clay,
  Or, the gross flesh having dropped off, thou hast been transported
    above,
  Leaving every weapon hung up on its peg.
  For thou didst abhor the mansions in the world,[253]
  Having fled from life in the cheap cloak (of a monk),
  And didst confront invisible potentates,
  Having received instead (of thine own armour) a strong panoply from
    God.
  Therefore I will construct for thee this tomb as a pearl oyster shell,
  Or shell of the purple dye, or bud on a thorny brier.
  O my pearl, my purple, rose of another clime,
  Even though being plucked thou art pressed by the stones
  So as to cause me sheddings of tears.
  Yet thou thyself, both living and beholding the living God,
  As a mind pure from material passions,
  Prepare for me again thy home.
  Martha,[254] thy wife formerly, writes these things to thee,
  O protostrator, fairest also of the dead!

The following epitaph in honour of the protostrator Glabas[254] was to be placed in the parecclesion
of the church of the Pammakaristos (Carmina Philae, ccxix., ed. Miller, vol. i. pp. 115-16):--

  [Greek: Epigramma eis ton naon hon ôkodomêsen hê tou prôtostratoros
  symbios apothanonti tô andri autês.

  hê men dia sou pasa tôn ontôn physis
  ou dynatai chôrein se tên prôtên physin;
  plêrois gar autên alla kai pleiôn meneis,
  Theou Loge zôn kai draki to pan pherôn,
  kan sarx alêthês heuretheis perigraphê,            5
  psychais de pistais mystikôs enidryê
  monên seautô pêgnyôn athanaton;
  oukoun dechou ton oikon hon teteucha soi
  deiknynta saphôs tês psychês mou tên schesin;
  ton syzygon de pheu teleutêsanta moi             10
  kai tês choikês apanastanta stegês,
  oikison eis aphtharton autos pastada,
  kantautha têrôn tên soron tou leipsanou,
  mê tis enechthê syntribê tois osteois.           15
  prôtostrator kai tauta sên dêpou charin
  hê syzygos prin, alla nyn Martha graphei.]

  The whole nature of existing things which thou hast made
  Cannot contain Thee, the primordial nature,
  For Thou fillest it, and yet remainest more than it;
  O Logos of God, living and holding all in the hollow of Thy hand,
  Although as true flesh Thou art circumscribed,
  And dwellest, mystically, in faithful souls,
  Establishing for Thyself an immortal habitation,
  Yet accept the house which I have built for Thee,
  Which shows clearly the disposition of my soul.
  My husband who, alas! has died to me
  And gone forth from his house of clay,
  Do Thou Thyself settle in an incorruptible mansion,
  Guarding also here the shrine of his remains,
  Lest any injury should befall his bones.
  O protostrator, these things, too, for thy sake I trow,
  Writes she who erewhile was thy wife, but now is Martha.[256]

  To face page 160.

[215] See the masterly articles of Mr. Siderides in the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of
C.P.; supplement to vols. xx.-xxii. pp. 19-32; vol. xxix. pp. 265-73. I beg to acknowledge
my great indebtedness to their learned author.

[216] 'This is the thoughtful deed of John Comnenus and of his consort Anna of the family Ducas.
Grant to them, O Pure One, rich grace and appoint them dwellers in the house of God.'

[217] Vol. ii, p. 183.

[218] Carmina Philae, vol. i. ode 237, lines 21-23. Codex Paris, p. 241.

[219] M. Crusius, Turcograecia, p. 189.

[220] It should read, [Greek: Branaina]. See Siderides, in the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos
of C.P. vol. xxix. p. 267.

[221] For the protovestiarius, see Pachym. i. pp. 205, 469; ii. pp. 68, 72, 210; for the protostrator,
see Pachym. ii. pp. 12, 445. The former died in 1284, the latter about 1315. Cf. Siderides,
ut supra. See on this subject the article of A. E. Martini in Atti della R. Academia di archeologia,
lettere e belle arti, vol. xx., Napoli, 1900.

[222] Carmina Philae, vol. i. Codex Florent. ode 95, lines 280-82.

[223] See Carmina Philae, edited by E. Miller, odes 54, 57, 59, 92, 164, 165, 219, 237, for
references to the protostrator, or to his wife, or to the Pammakaristos.

[224] Hans Jacob Breüning, Orientalische Reyss, chap. xvii. p. 66. He visited Constantinople
1579-80. The portraits stood 'Im Eingang auff der rechten Seiten,' or, as another authority
has it, 'in patriarchica porta exteriore, in pariete dextero ab ingredientibus conspiciuntur,'
Turcograecia, p. 75.

[225] Gerlach refers to these portraits, but without mentioning the names of the persons they
represented. The legends were communicated to M. Crusius (Turcograecia, p. 75) by Theodosius
Zygomalas, the protonotarius of the patriarch in the time of Gerlach.

[226] Pachym. ii. pp. 182-89. When Cosmas was appointed patriarch a curious incident occurred.
A monk of the monastery of the Pantepoptes protested against the nomination, because it had
been revealed to him that the person who should fill the vacant office would bear the name
John. Such was the impression made by this prediction that matters were so arranged that somehow
Cosmas was able to claim that name also. Whereupon the monk went on to predict how many years
Cosmas would hold office, and that he would lose that position before his death.

[227] Pachym. ii. pp. 271-77.

[228] Ibid. pp. 278-84.

[229] Pachym. ii. pp. 292-98.

[230] Pachym. ii. pp. 298-300.

[231] Ibid. ii. p. 303.

[232] Ibid. pp. 341-43.

[233] Ibid. 347-85.

[234] Cantacuzene, ii. pp. 442-48; Niceph. Greg. pp. 701, 710, 726.

[235] Ducas, pp. 117-21, 134, 139-42, 148-52, 176.

[236] Historia politica, p. 16.

[237] Phrantzes, p. 307.

[238] See Gerlach's description in Turcograecia, pp. 189-90.

[239] Breüning, Orientalische Reyss, p. 68, 'zur rechten an der Mauren Imp. Alexii Comneni
monumentum von Steinwerck auffs einfältigste and schlechteste.'

[240] Salomon Schweigger, Ein newe Reyssbeschreibung auss Deutschland nach Constantinopel pp.
119-20, Chaplain for more than three years in Constantinople, at the Legation of the Holy Roman
Empire, 1581. He gives the inscription on the sarcophagus: [Greek: Alexios autokratôr tôn Rhômaiôn].
There is an eagle to the right of the legend.

[241] P. 12, [Greek: eis hên ekeinos edeimato Christô tô philanthrôpô monên].

[242] Turcograecia, p. 46, where the tomb is further described; 'est id lapideum, non insistens
4 basibus, sed integro lapide a terra surgens, altius quam mensa, ad parietem templi.'

[243] Turcograecia, p. 189.

[244] Patr. Constantius, p. 72.

[245] Historia politica, p. 178.

[246] A barrel vault is, however, used under the west gallery of S. Theodosia though cross-groined
vaults are used in the side 'aisles.'

[247] Manuel d'art byzantin, p. 742.

[248] The bands of marble on which the inscription is found were cut from marble slabs which
once formed part of a balustrade, for the upper side of the bands is covered with carved work.

[249] Carmina Philae, i. pp. 115-16, lines 4, 7.

[250] Ibid. Heading to poem, and lines 10, 13-16. Second epitaph p. 117, lines 2, 5, 14.

[251] Turcograecia, pp. 16, 109, [Greek: endon tês mikras ekklêsias kai hôraias tou parekklêsion].

[252] [Greek: tethammene] (Cod. Mon. fol. 102).

[253] Alludes to the retirement of Glabas from the world as a monk.

[254] Her name as a nun.

[255] In the superscription to this epigram in the Florentine and Munich MSS. the name [Greek:
Glabas] is given.

[256] In these translations I have been assisted chiefly by Sir W. M. Ramsay, Professor Bury,
and Mr. E. M. Antoniadi.

CHAPTER VIII

CHURCH OF S. THEODOSIA, GUL JAMISSI

There can be no doubt that the mosque Gul Jamissi (mosque of the Rose), that stands within
the Gate Aya Kapou, near the Golden Horn, was the Byzantine church of S. Theodosia. For Aya
Kapou is the entrance styled in Byzantine days the Gate of S. Theodosia ([Greek: pylê tês hagias
Theodosias]), because in the immediate vicinity of the church of that dedication.[257] This
was also the view current on the subject when Gyllius[258] and Gerlach[259] visited the city
in the sixteenth century. The Turkish epithet of the gate 'Aya,' Holy, is thus explained. Du
Cange,[260] contrary to all evidence, places the church of S. Theodosia on the northern side
of the harbour, or at its head, ultra sinum.

The saint is celebrated in ecclesiastical history for her opposition to the iconoclastic policy
of Leo the Isaurian. For when that emperor commanded the eikon of Christ over the Bronze Gate
of the Great Palace to be removed, Theodosia, at the head of a band of women, rushed to the
spot and overthrew the ladder up which the officer, charged with the execution of the imperial
order, was climbing to reach the image. In the fall the officer was killed. Whereupon a rough
soldier seized Theodosia, and dragging her to the forum of the Bous (Ak Serai), struck her
dead by driving a ram's horn through her neck. Naturally, when the cause for which she sacrificed
her life triumphed, she was honoured as a martyr, and men said, 'The ram's horn, in killing
thee, O Theodosia, appeared to thee a new Horn of Amalthea.'[261]

The remains of the martyred heroine were taken for burial to the monastery of Dexiocrates ([Greek:
to monastêrion to onomazomenon Dexiokratous]), so named either after its founder or after the
district in which it was situated.[262] This explains why the Gate of S. Theodosia was also
designated the Gate of Dexiocrates ([Greek: Porta Dexiokratous]).[263] The earliest reference
to the church of S. Theodosia occurs in the account of the pilgrimage made by Anthony, Archbishop
of Novgorod,[264] to Constantinople in 1200. Alluding to that shrine he says: 'Dans un couvent,'
to quote the French translation of his narrative, 'de femmes se trouvent les reliques de sainte
Théodosie, dans une châsse ouverte en argent.' Another Russian pilgrim from Novgorod,[265]
Stephen, who was in Constantinople in 1350, refers to the convent expressly as the convent
of S. Theodosia: 'Nous allâmes vénérer la sainte vierge Théodosie, que (pécheurs) nous baisâmes;
il y a là un couvent en son nom au bord de la mer.' The convent is again mentioned in the description
of Constantinople by the Russian pilgrim[266] who visited the city shortly before the Turkish
conquest (1424-53). 'De là (Blachernae) nous nous dirigeâmes vers l'est et atteignîmes le couvent
de Sainte Théodosie; la sainte vierge Théodosie y repose dans une châsse découverte.'

Two other Russian pilgrims, Alexander the scribe (1395), and the deacon Zosimus (1419-21),
likewise refer to the relics of the saint, but they do so in terms which create some difficulty.
Alexander saw the relics in the church of the Pantokrator,[267] while Zosimus found them in
the convent of the 'Everghetis.'[268] The discrepancy between these statements may indeed be
explained as one of the mistakes very easily committed by strangers who spend only a short
time in a city, visit a multitude of similar objects during that brief stay, and write the
account of their travels at hurried moments, or after returning home.

It is on this principle that Mordtmann[269] deals with the statement that the relics of S.
Theodosia were kept in the monastery of the 'Everghetis.' In his opinion Zosimus confused the
monastery of S. Saviour Euergetes[270] with the church of S. Theodosia,[271] because of the
proximity of the two sanctuaries. Lapses of memory are of course possible, but, on the other
hand, the trustworthiness of a document must not be brushed aside too readily.

But the differences in the statements of the Russian pilgrims, as to the particular church
in which the relics of S. Theodosia were enshrined, may be explained without charging any of
the good men with a mistake, if we remember that relics of the same saint might be preserved
in several sanctuaries; that the calendar of the Greek church celebrates four saints bearing
the name Theodosia;[272] and, lastly, that churches of the same dedication stood in different
quarters of the city. In fact, a church dedicated to the Theotokos Euergetes stood on the Xerolophos
above the quarter of Psamathia.[273]

Stephen of Novgorod[274] makes it perfectly clear that he venerated the relics of S. Theodosia
in two different sanctuaries of the city, one of them being a church beside the Golden Horn,
the other standing on the heights above Psamathia. So does the anonymous pilgrim.[274] The
scribe Alexander[276] found the relics of S. Theodosia both in the Pantokrator and in the church
of Kirmarta, above the quarter of Psamathia. It is clear, therefore, that Zosimus,[277] who
places the relics of S. Theodosia in the monastery of 'Everghetis,' has in mind the church
of the Theotokos Euergetes above Psamathia, and not the church of S. Saviour Euergetes which
stood near S. Theodosia beside the Golden Horn.

  NOTE

  While Zosimus and Alexander agree in placing the relics of S.
  Theodosia in a church in the region of Psamathia, they differ as to
  the name of that church, the former naming it Everghetis, while the
  latter styles it Kirmarta. As appears from statements found on pages
  108, 163, 205 of the Itinéraires russes, the two sanctuaries were
  closely connected. But however this discrepancy should be treated,
  there can be no doubt that relics of S. Theodosia were exhibited, not
  only in the church dedicated to her beside the Golden Horn, but also
  in a church in the south-western part of the city. Nor can it be
  doubted that a church in the latter quarter was dedicated to the
  Theotokos Euergetes.

That several churches should have claimed to possess the relics of the heroine who championed
the cause of eikons, assuming that all the Russian pilgrims had one and the same S. Theodosia
in mind, is not strange. Many other popular saints were honoured in a similar fashion.

The shrine of S. Theodosia was famed for miraculous cures. Her horn of plenty was filled with
gifts of healing. Twice a week, on Wednesdays and Fridays, according to Stephen of Novgorod,
or on Mondays and Fridays, according to another pilgrim, the relics of the saint were carried
in procession and laid upon sick and impotent folk.[278] Those were days of high festival.
All the approaches to the church were packed with men and women eager to witness the wonders
performed. Patients representing almost every complaint to which human flesh is heir filled
the court. Gifts of oil and money poured into the treasury; the church was a blaze of lighted
tapers; the prayers were long; the chanting was loud. Meanwhile the sufferers were borne one
after another to the sacred relics, 'and whoever was sick,' says the devout Stephen, 'was healed.'
So profound was the impression caused by one of these cures in 1306, that Pachymeres[279] considered
it his duty, as the historian of his day, to record the wonder; and his example may be followed
to furnish an illustration of the beliefs and usages which bulked largely in the religious
life witnessed in the churches of Byzantine Constantinople.

At the time referred to there dwelt in the city a deaf-mute, a well-known object of charity
who supported himself by petty services in benevolent households. While thus employed by a
family that resided near the church of the Holy Apostles, the poor man one night saw S. Theodosia
in a dream, and heard her command to repair with tapers and incense to the church dedicated
to her honour. Next morning the deaf-mute made his friends understand what had occurred during
his sleep, and with their help found his way to the designated shrine. There he was anointed
with the holy oil of the lamp before the saint's eikon, and bowed long in humble adoration
at her feet. Nothing remarkable happened at the time. But on his homeward way the devout man
felt a strange pain in his ear, and upon putting his hand to the sore place, what seemed a
winged insect flew out and vanished from view. Wondering what this might mean, he entered the
house in which he served, and set himself to prepare the oven in which the bread for the family
was to be baked that day. But all his efforts to kindle the fire were in vain; the wood only
smoked. This went on so long that, like most persons under the same circumstances, the much-tried
man lost his temper and gave way to the impulse to use bad language. Whereupon sonorous imprecations
on the obstinate fuel shook the air. The bystanders could not believe their ears. They thought
the sounds proceeded from some mysterious voice in the oven. But the deaf-mute protested that
he heard his friends talking, and assured them that the words they heard were his own; S. Theodosia
had opened his ears and loosed his tongue. The news of the marvel spread far and wide and reached
even the court. Andronicus II. sent for the young man, interrogated him, and was so deeply
impressed by the recital of what had happened that he determined to proceed to the church of
S. Theodosia in state, and went thither with the patriarch and the senate, humbly on foot,
and spent the whole night before the wonder-working shrine in prayer and thanksgiving.

The last scene witnessed in this church as a Christian sanctuary was pathetic in the extreme.
It was the vigil of the day sacred to the memory of the saint, May 29, 1453. The siege of the
city by the Turks had reached its crisis. The morning light would see the Queen of Cities saved
or lost. All hearts were torn with anxiety, and the religious fervour of the population rose
to the highest pitch. Already, in the course of the previous day, a great procession had gone
through the streets of the city, invoking the aid of God and of all His saints. The emperor
and the leading personages of his court were in S. Sophia, praying, weeping, embracing one
another, forgiving one another, all feeling oppressed by a sense of doom. In the terrible darkness
the church of S. Theodosia, ablaze with lighted tapers, gleamed like a beacon of hope. An immense
congregation, including many women, filled the building, and prayers ascended to Heaven with
unwonted earnestness--when suddenly the tramp of soldiers and strange shouts were heard. Had
the city indeed fallen? The entrance of Turkish troops into the church removed all doubt, and
the men and women who had gathered to pray for deliverance were carried off as prisoners of
war.[280] According to the Belgic Chronicle, the body of the saint and other relics were thrown
into the mire and cast to the dogs.[281]

Architectural Features

As the building has undergone extensive repairs since it became a mosque, care must be taken
to distinguish between the original features of the fabric and Turkish changes and restorations.
The pointed dome arches rest on pilasters built against the internal angles of the cross. The
dome is windowless, has no internal drum, and externally is octagonal with a low drum and a
flat cornice. Dome, arches, and pilasters are all evidently Turkish reconstructions. The gable
walls of the transepts and the western wall are also Turkish. As the central apse coincided
with the orientation of the mosque, it has retained its original form and some portions of
its Byzantine walls, but it also has suffered Turkish alterations. The cross arches in the
south gallery and in the narthex are pointed, and, in their present form, unquestionably Turkish;
but as the vault above them is Byzantine, their form may be due to cutting away in order to
secure a freer passage round the galleries for the convenience of Moslem worshippers. The outer
narthex is Turkish, but the old wall which forms its foundation and traces of an old pavement
imply the former existence of a Byzantine narthex. In spite, however, of these serious changes
the building preserves its original characteristic features, and is a good example of a domed-cross
church, with galleries on three sides and domes over the four angle-chambers.

The galleries rest on a triple arcade supported by square piers. On the north and south the
aisles are covered with cross-groined vaults on oblong compartments, while the passage or narthex
under the western gallery has a barrel vault.

The chambers at the north-eastern and south-eastern angles of the cross are thrown into the
side chapels, which thus consist of two bays covered with cross-groined vaults. Communication
between the chapels and the bema was maintained by passages opening in the ordinary fashion
into the eastern bays.

In the thickness of each of the eastern dome piers, and at a short distance above the floor,
is a small chamber. The chamber in the north-eastern pier is lighted by a small opening looking
southwards, and was reached by a door in the east side of the passage leading from the bema
to the north-eastern chapel. The door has been walled up, and the chamber is consequently inaccessible.
The chamber in the south-eastern pier is lighted by a window looking northwards, and has a
door in the east side of the passage from the bema to the south-eastern chapel.

Over the door is a Turkish inscription[282] in gilt letters to this effect, 'Tomb of the Apostles,
disciples of Jesus. Peace to him.' The chamber is reached by a short spiral stairway of nine
stone steps, and contains a small marble tomb, which is covered with shawls, and has a turban
around its headstone. On a bracket in the wall is a lamp ready to be lighted in honour of the
deceased. The roof of the chamber is perforated by an opening that runs into the floor at the
east end of the southern gallery, and over the opening is an iron grating.

Access to the galleries is gained by means of a staircase in the northern bay of the passage
under the western gallery. For some distance from the floor of the church the staircase has
wooden steps, but from the first landing, where a door in the northern wall stands on a level
with the ground outside the church, stone steps are employed for the remainder of the way up.
The wooden steps are Turkish, but may replace Byzantine steps of the same material. The stone
steps are Byzantine, and could be reached directly from outside the church through the door
situated beside the landing from which they start. Probably in Byzantine days the stone staircase
could not be reached from the floor of the church, and furnished the only means of access to
the galleries.

The galleries are covered by the barrel vaults of the cross arms. At the east end of the northern
and the southern gallery are chapels covered with domes and placed above the prothesis and
the diaconicon. As stated already, the aperture in the roof of the chamber in the south-eastern
dome pier opens into the floor of the southern chapel, and probably a similar aperture in the
roof of the corresponding chamber in the north-eastern pier opened into the floor of the chapel
at the east end of the northern gallery. The presence of chapels in such an unusual position
is explained by the desire to celebrate special services in honour of the saints whose remains
were buried in the chambers in the piers, as though in crypts.

The domes over the chapels are hemispherical and rest directly on the pendentives. They are
ribless and without drums. The arches on which they rest are semicircular and, with their infilling
of triple windows, are Byzantine. We may safely set down all four angle domes as belonging
to the original design, though the arches by which they communicate with the galleries are
pointed, and are therefore Turkish insertions or enlargements.

On the exterior the eastern wall of the church is fairly well preserved. The three apses project
boldly; the central apse in seven sides, the lateral apses in three sides. Although the central
apse is unquestionably a piece of Byzantine work it does not appear to be the original apse
of the building, but a substitute inserted in the course of repairs before the Turkish conquest.
This accounts for its plain appearance as compared with the lateral apses, which are decorated
with four tiers of five niches, corresponding to the window height and the vaulting-level within
the church. As on the apses of the Pantokrator (p. 235) the niches are shallow segments in
plan, set back in one brick order, and without impost moulding. In the lowest tier three arches
are introduced between pilasters, with a window in the central arch. Above the four tiers of
niches is a boldly corbelled cornice, like that in the chapel attached to the Pammakaristos.
One cannot help admiring how an effect so decidedly rich and beautiful was produced by very
simple means.

Details of the tiled floor and of several carved fragments are given in Fig. 76.

For some time after the conquest the building was used as a naval store.[283] It was converted
into a mosque in the reign of Sultan Selim II. (1566-74) by a wealthy courtier, Hassan Pasha,
and was known as Hassan Pasha Mesjedi.[284] Its title, the mosque of the Rose, doubtless refers
to its beauty, just as another mosque is, for a similar reason, styled Laleli Jamissi, the
mosque of the Tulip.

Before leaving the church we may consider the claims of the tradition that the chamber in the
south-eastern dome pier contains the tomb of the last Byzantine emperor. The tradition was
first announced to the general public by the Patriarch Constantius in a letter which he addressed
in 1852 to Mr. Scarlatus Byzantius, his fellow-student in all pertaining to the antiquities
and history of Constantinople.[285] According to the patriarch, the tradition was accepted
by the Turkish ecclesiastical authorities of the city, and was current among the old men of
the Greek community resident in the quarter of Phanar; he himself knew the tradition even in
his boyhood. Furthermore, distinguished European visitors who inquired for Byzantine imperial
tombs were directed by Turkish officials to the church of S. Theodosia, as the resting-place
of the emperor who died with the Empire; and the inscription over the door of the chamber referred
to that champion of the Greek cause. Strangely enough, the patriarch said nothing about this
tradition when treating of the church of S. Theodosia in his book on Ancient and Modern Constantinople,
published in 1844. In that work, indeed, he assigns the tomb in question to some martyr who
suffered during the iconoclastic period.[286] This strange silence he explains in his letter
written in 1852 as due to prudence; he had reason then to 'put the seal of Alexander upon his
lips.'

The tradition has recently received the honour of being supported by Mr. Siderides, to whom
students of Byzantine archaeology are so deeply indebted. But while accepting it in general,
Mr. Siderides thinks it is open to correction on two points of detail.

In his opinion the church of S. Theodosia was not the first sanctuary to guard the mortal remains
of Constantine Palaeologus, but the second. Nor was the body of the fallen hero, when ultimately
brought to this church, placed, as the patriarch supposed, in the chamber in the south-eastern
pier, but in the chamber in the pier to the north-east. The reasons urged in favour of these
modifications of the tradition, as reported by the Patriarch Constantius, are substantially
the following:--In the first place, the body of the last Constantine, after its decapitation,
was, at the express order of the victorious Sultan, buried with royal honours, [Greek: meta
basilikês timês],[287] and therefore, so Mr. Siderides maintains, must have been interred in
the church which then enjoyed the highest rank in the Greek community of the city, viz. the
church of the Holy Apostles, the patriarchal cathedral after the appropriation of S. Sophia
by the Turks. The church of the Holy Apostles, however, soon lost that distinction, and was
torn down to make room for the mosque which bears the name of the conqueror of the city. Under
these circumstances what more natural, asks Mr. Siderides, than that pious and patriotic hands
should remove as many objects of historical or religious value as possible from the doomed
shrine, and deposit them where men might still do them reverence--especially when there was
every facility for the removal of such objects, owing to the fact that a Christian architect,
Christoboulos, had charge of the destruction of the church and of the erection of the mosque.

Some of those objects were doubtless transferred to the church of the Pammakaristos,[288] where
the Patriarch Gennadius placed his throne after abandoning the church of the Holy Apostles;
but others may have been taken elsewhere. And for proof that the church of S. Theodosia had
the honour of being entrusted with the care of some of the relics removed from the Holy Apostles,
Mr. Siderides points to the inscription over the doorway leading to the chamber in the south-eastern
dome pier. According to the inscription that chamber is consecrated by the remains of Christ's
apostles, i.e. the relics which formed the peculiar treasure of the church of the Holy Apostles.

This being so, Mr. Siderides argues, on the strength of the tradition under review, that the
remains of the last Constantine also were brought from the church of the Holy Apostles to S.
Theodosia under the circumstances described.

As to the position of the imperial tomb when thus transferred to the church of S. Theodosia,
Mr. Siderides insists that it cannot be in the chamber in the south-eastern dome pier: first,
because the religious veneration cherished by Moslems for the grave in that chamber is inconsistent
with the idea that the grave contains the ashes of the enemy who, in 1453, resisted the Sultan's
attack upon the city; secondly, because the inscription over the doorway leading to the chamber
expressly declares the chamber to be the resting-place of Christ's apostles. Hence Mr. Siderides
concludes that if the tradition before us has any value, the tomb of the last Byzantine emperor
was placed in the chamber in the north-eastern pier, and finds confirmation of that view in
the absence of any respect for the remains deposited there.

To enter into a minute criticism of this tradition and of the arguments urged in its support
would carry us far beyond our scope. Nor does such criticism seem necessary. The fact that
the last Constantine was buried with royal honours affords no proof whatever that he was laid
to rest in the church of the Holy Apostles. If he was ever buried in S. Theodosia, he may have
been buried there from the first. The lateness of the date when the tradition became public
makes the whole story it tells untrustworthy. Before a statement published in the early part
of the nineteenth century in regard to the interment of the last Byzantine emperor can have
any value, it must be shown to rest on information furnished nearer the time at which the alleged
event occurred. No information of that kind has been produced. On the contrary, the only contemporary
historian of the siege of 1453 who refers to the site of the emperor's grave informs us that
the head of the last Constantine was interred in S. Sophia, and his mutilated body in Galata.[289]
The patriarchal authorities of the sixteenth century, as Mr. Siderides admits, while professing
to point out the exact spot where Constantine Palaeologus fell, were ignorant of the place
where he was buried. In his work on the mosques of the city, written in 1620, Evlia Effendi
not only knows nothing of the tradition we are considering, but says expressly that the emperor
was buried elsewhere--in the church of the monastery of S. Mary Peribleptos, known by the Turks
as Soulou Monastir, in the quarter of Psamathia. In 1852 a story prevailed that the grave of
the last Constantine was in the quarter of Vefa Meidan.[290] From all these discrepancies it
is evident that in the confusion attending the Turkish capture of the city, the real site of
the imperial grave was soon forgotten, and that all subsequent indications of its position
are mere conjectures, the offspring of the propensity to find in nameless graves local habitations
for popular heroes.

  NOTE

  The first edition of Ancient and Modern Constantinople was published
  in 1824. In it there is no mention of any tomb in the church of S.
  Theodosia. The second edition of that work appeared in 1844, and there
  the author speaks of a tomb in the church, and suggests that it was
  the tomb of some martyr in the iconoclastic persecution. The
  patriarch's letter to Scarlatus Byzantius was written in 1852, and
  published by the latter in 1862. In that letter the patriarch reports
  for the first time the tradition that the tomb in S. Theodosia was the
  tomb of Constantine Palaeologus. In 1851 a Russian visitor to
  Constantinople, Andrew Mouravieff, who published an account of his
  travels, says that in the church of S. Theodosia he was shown a tomb
  which the officials of the mosque assured him was the tomb of the last
  Christian emperor of the city.[291] Lastly, but not least, in 1832 the
  church of S. Theodosia underwent repairs at the Sultan's orders, and
  then a neglected tomb was discovered in the church by the Christian
  architect who had charge of the work of restoration, Haji Stephen
  Gaitanaki Maditenou (see letter of the patriarch).[292] It is
  difficult to resist the impression that the discovery of the tomb at
  that time gave occasion for the fanciful conjectures current among
  Turks and Greeks in regard to the body interred in the tomb. See the
  article of Mr. Siderides, who gives the facts just mentioned, without
  drawing the inference I have suggested.

[257] Phrantzes, p. 254; Pusculus, iv. 190.

[258] De Bospora Thracio, vi. c. 2.

[259] Türkisches Tagebuch, pp. 358, 454; Patr. Constantius, p. 13.

[260] Constant. Christ. iv. 190.

[261] Synax., May 29.--

  [Greek: Keras kriou kteinon se, Theodosia,
          ôphthê neon soi tes Amaltheias keras].

[262] Banduri, ii. p. 34.

[263] Codinus, De S. Sophia, p. 147.

[264] Itin. russes, p. 104.

[265] Ibid. p. 125.

[266] Ibid. p. 233.

[267] Ibid. p. 162.

[268] Itin. russes, p. 205.

[269] Esq. top. parags. 68, 69.

[270] Pachym. vol. i. p. 365; Chroniques græco-romaines, pp. 96, 97.

[271] Nicet. Chon. p. 752.

[272] Synax. March 25, May 29 (a day sacred to two saints named Theodosia), July 8.

[273] Itin. russes, p. 205. Not far from the church and cistern of S. Mokius.

[274] Ibid. cf. pp. 122, 125.

[275] Ibid. pp. 233, 234.

[276] Ibid. pp. 162, 163.

[277] Ibid. p. 205.

[278] Itin. russes, pp. 225, 233.

[279] Pachym. i. p. 365.

[280] Ducas, p. 293.

[281] Du Cange, iv. p. 190.

[282] Merkadi havariyoun eshabi Issa alaihusselam.

[283] Paspates, p. 322.

[284] Leunclavius, Pand. Turc. c. 128.

[285] [Greek: Syngraphai hai Elassones].

[286] "[Greek: Meletês]," Athens, 1908: [Greek: Kônstantinou Palaiologou thanatos, taphos,
kai spathê].

[287] Phrantzes, pp. 290-91, [Greek: kai prostaxei autou hoi heurethentes Christianoi ethapsan
to basilikon ptôma meta basilikês timês].

[288] E.g., the column at which Christ was scourged stood in the church of the Holy Apostles
before the conquest. It was found by Gerlach after the conquest in the Pammakaristos.--Turcograecia,
p. 189.

[289] See the Muscovite's account in Dethier's Collection of Documents relating to the Siege
of 1453, vol. ii. p. 1117.

[290] Achmed Mouktar Pasha, a recent Turkish historian of the siege of 1453, maintains that
the emperor was buried in the church of the Pegé (Baloukli), outside the walls of the city.
There is no persistency in the tradition that associates Constantine's tomb with the church
of S. Theodosia.

[291] Letters from the East (in Russian), vol. ii. pp. 342-43, quoted by Mr. Siderides.

[292] [Greek: Syngraphai hai Elassones.]

CHAPTER IX

THE CHURCH OF S. MARY DIACONISSA, KALENDER HANEH JAMISSI

Close to the eastern end of the aqueduct of Valens, and to the south of it, in the quarter
of the mosque Shahzadé, is a beautiful Byzantine church, now known as Kalender Haneh Jamissi.
It was visited by Gyllius,[293] who refers to its beautiful marble revetment--vestita crustis
varii marmoris--but has, unfortunately, nothing to say concerning its dedication. Since that
traveller's time the very existence of the church was forgotten by the Greek community of Constantinople
until Paspates[294] discovered the building in 1877. But even that indefatigable explorer of
the ancient remains of the city could not get access to the interior, and it was reserved for
Dr. Freshfield in 1880 to be the first European visitor since Gyllius to enter the building,
and make its interest and beauty known to the general public.[295]

The identity of the church is a matter of pure conjecture, for we have no tradition or documentary
evidence on that point. Paspates[296] suggests that it may have been the sanctuary connected
either with the 'monastery of Valens and Daudatus,' or with the 'monastery near the aqueduct,'
establishments in existence before the age of Justinian the Great.[297] It cannot be the former,
because the monastery of Valens and Daudatus, which was dedicated to S. John the Baptist, stood
near the church of the Holy Apostles close to the western end of the aqueduct of Valens. It
might, so far as the indication 'near the aqueduct' gives any clue, be the sanctuary of the
latter House, in which case the church was dedicated to S. Anastasius.[298] But the architectural
features of Kalender Haneh Jamissi do not belong to the period before Justinian. Mordtmann[299]
identifies the building with the church of the Theotokos in the district of the Deaconess ([Greek:
naos tês theotokou ta Diakonissês]), and in favour of this view there is the fact that the
site of the mosque corresponds, speaking broadly, to the position which that church is known
to have occupied somewhere between the forum of Taurus (now represented by the Turkish War
Office) and the Philadelphium (the area about the mosque of Shahzadé), and not far off the
street leading to the Holy Apostles. Furthermore, the rich and beautiful decoration of the
church implies its importance, so that it may very well be the church of the Theotokos Diaconissa,
at which imperial processions from the Great Palace to the Holy Apostles stopped to allow the
emperor to place a lighted taper upon the altar of the shrine.[300]

Theophanes,[301] the earliest writer to mention the church of the Diaconissa, ascribes its
foundation to the Patriarch Kyriakos (593-605) in the fourth year of his patriarchate, during
the reign of the Emperor Maurice. According to the historical evidence at our command, that
church was therefore erected towards the close of the sixth century. Dr. Freshfield,[302] however,
judging by the form of the church and the character of the dome, thinks that Kalender Haneh
Jamissi is 'not earlier than the eighth century, and not later than the tenth.' Lethaby[303]
places it in the period between Justinian the Great and the eleventh century. 'The church,
now the Kalender mosque of Constantinople, probably belongs to the intermediate period. The
similar small cruciform church of Protaton, Mount Athos, is dated c. 950.' Hence if Theophanes
and his followers are not to clash with these authorities on architecture, either Kalender
Haneh Jamissi is not the church of the Diaconissa, or it is a reconstruction of the original
fabric of that sanctuary. To restore an old church was not an uncommon practice in Constantinople,
and Kalender Haneh Jamissi has undoubtedly seen changes in the course of its history. On the
other hand, Diehl is of the opinion that the building cannot be later than the seventh century
and may be earlier.[304]

Architectural Features

The church belongs to the domed-cross type. The central area is cruciform, with barrel vaults
over the arms and a dome on the centre. As the arms are not filled in with galleries this cruciform
plan is very marked internally. Four small chambers, in two stories, in the arm angles bring
the building to the square form externally. The upper stories are inaccessible except by ladders,
but the supposition that they ever formed, like the similar stories in the dome piers of S.
Sophia, portions of continuous galleries along the northern, western, and southern walls of
the church is precluded by the character of the revetment on the walls. In the development
of the domed-cross type, the church stands logically intermediate between the varieties of
that type found respectively in the church of S. Theodosia and in that of SS. Peter and Mark.

The lower story of the north-western pier is covered with a flat circular roof resting on four
pendentives, while the upper story is open to the timbers, and rises higher than the roof of
the church, as though it were the base of some kind of tower. It presents no indications of
pendentives or of a start in vaulting. The original eastern wall of the church has been almost
totally torn down and replaced by a straight wall of Turkish construction. Traces of three
apses at that end of the building can, however, still be discerned; for the points at which
the curve of the central apse started are visible on either side of the Turkish wall, and the
northern apse shows on the exterior. The northern and southern walls are lighted by large triple
windows, divided by shafts and descending to a marble parapet near the floor (Plate IV.). The
dome, which is large in proportion to the church, is a polygon of sixteen sides. It rests directly
on pendentives, but has a comparatively high external drum above the roof. It is pierced by
sixteen windows which follow the curve of the dome. The flat, straight external cornice above
them is Turkish, and there is good reason to suspect that the dome, taken as a whole, is Turkish
work, for it strongly resembles the Turkish domes found in S. Theodosia, SS. Peter and Mark,
and S. Andrew in Krisei. The vaults, moreover, below the dome are very much distorted; and
the pointed eastern arch like the eastern wall appears to be Turkish. When portions of the
building so closely connected with the dome have undergone Turkish repairs, it is not strange
that the dome itself should also have received similar treatment.

In the western faces of the piers that carry the eastern arch large marble frames of considerable
beauty are inserted. The sills are carved and rest on two short columns; two slender pilasters
of verd antique form the sides; and above them is a flat cornice enriched with overhanging
leaves of acanthus and a small bust in the centre. Within the frames is a large marble slab.
Dr. Freshfield thinks these frames formed part of the eikonostasis, but on that view the bema
would have been unusually large. The more probable position of the eikonostasis was across
the arch nearer the apse. In that case the frames just described formed part of the general
decoration of the building, although, at the same time, they may have enclosed isolated eikons.
Eikons in a similar position are found in S. Saviour in the Chora (Plate LXXXVI.).

The marble casing of the church is remarkably fine. Worthy of special notice is the careful
manner in which the colours and veinings of the marble slabs are made to correspond and match.
The zigzag inlaid pattern around the arches also deserves particular attention. High up in
the western wall, and reached by the wooden stairs leading to a Turkish wooden gallery on that
side of the church, are two marble slabs with a door carved in bas-relief upon them. They may
be symbols of Christ as the door of His fold (Plate IV.).

The church has a double narthex. As the ground outside the building has been raised enormously
(it rises 15-20 feet above the floor at the east end) the actual entrance to the outer narthex
is through a cutting in its vault or through a window, and the floor is reached by a steep
flight of stone steps. The narthex is a long narrow vestibule, covered with barrel vaults,
and has a Turkish wooden ceiling at the southern end.

The esonarthex is covered with a barrel vault between two cross vaults. The entrance into the
church stands between two Corinthian columns, but they belong to different periods, and do
not correspond to any structure in the building. In fact, both narthexes have been much altered
in their day, presenting many irregularities and containing useless pilasters.

Professor Goodyear refers to this church in support of the theory that in Byzantine buildings
there is an intentional widening of the structure from the ground upwards. 'It will also be
observed,' he says, 'that the cornice is horizontal, whereas the marble casing above and below
the cornice is cut and fitted in oblique lines.... The outward bend on the right side of the
choir is 11-1/2 inches in 33 feet. The masonry surfaces step back above the middle string-course.
That these bends are not due to thrust is abundantly apparent from the fact that they are continuous
and uniform in inclination up to the solid rear wall of the choir.'

But in regard to the existence of an intentional widening upwards in this building, it should
be observed: First, that as the eastern wall of the church, 'the rear wall of the choir,' is
Turkish, nothing can be legitimately inferred from the features of that wall about the character
of Byzantine construction. Secondly, the set back above the middle string-course on the other
walls of the church is an ordinary arrangement in a Byzantine church, and if this were all
'the widening' for which Professor Goodyear contended there would be no room for difference
of opinion. The ledge formed by that set back may have served to support scaffolding. In the
next place, due weight must be given to the distortion which would inevitably occur in Byzantine
buildings. They were fabrics of mortar with brick rather than of brick with mortar, and consequently
too elastic not to settle to a large extent in the course of erection. Hence is it that no
measurements of a Byzantine structure, even on the ground floor, are accurate within more than
5 cm., while above the ground they vary to a much greater degree, rendering minute measurements
quite valueless. Lastly, as the marble panelling was fitted after the completion of the body
of the building, it had to be adapted to any divergence that had previously occurred in the
settling of the walls or the spreading of the vaults. The marble panelling, it should also
be observed, is here cut to the diagonal at one angle, and not at the other.

Apart from the set back of the masonry at the middle string-course, this church, therefore,
supplies no evidence for an intentional widening of the structure from the ground upwards.
Any further widening than that at the middle string-course was accidental, due to the nature
of the materials employed, not to the device of the builder, and was allowed by the architect
because unavoidable. Such irregularities are inherent in the Byzantine methods of building.

[293] De top. C.P. iii. c. 6.

[294] P. 351.

[295] Archaeologia, vol. lv. part 2, p. 431.

[296] P. 352.

[297] Their names appear in the Letter addressed to Menas, by the monks of the city, at the
Synod of 536.

[298] In the Epistle to Pope Agapetus the monastery 'near the aqueduct' is described as 'Anastasii
prope Agogum,' Mansi, viii. p. 907.

[299] Esquisses top. p. 70.

[300] Const. Porphr. De cer. i. p. 75.

[301] P. 428; Banduri, i. p. 18; viii. pp. 697-98.

[302] Archaeologia, vol. lv. part 2, p. 438.

[303] Mediaeval Art, p. 66.

[304] Manuel d'art byzantin, p. 312.

CHAPTER X

THE CHURCH OF SS. PETER AND MARK, HOJA ATIK MUSTAPHA JAMISSI

The Byzantine church, now Hoja Atik Mustapha Jamissi, situated in the Aivan Serai quarter,
close to the Golden Horn, is commonly regarded as the church of SS. Peter and Mark, because
it stands where the church dedicated to the chief of the apostles and his companion stood,
in the district of Blachernae (Aivan Serai) and near the Golden Horn.[305] Such indications
are too vague for a positive opinion on the subject, but perhaps the Patriarch Constantius,
who is responsible for the identification, may have relied upon some tradition in favour of
the view he has made current.[306]

  NOTE

  Tafferner, chaplain to the embassy from Leopold I. of Austria to the
  Ottoman Court, speaking of the patriarchal church in his day (the
  present patriarchal church of S. George in the Phanar quarter), says,
  'Aedes haec in patriarchatum erecta est, postquam Sultan Mehemet
  basilicam Petri et Pauli exceptam Graecis in moscheam defoedavit'
  (Caesarea legatio, p. 89, Vien. 1668). Probably by the church of SS.
  Peter and Paul he means this church of SS. Peter and Mark. If so, the
  traditional name of the building is carried back to the seventeenth
  century. The church of SS. Peter and Mark, it is true, never served as
  a patriarchal church. That honour belonged to the church of S.
  Demetrius of Kanabos, which is in the immediate vicinity, and has
  always remained a Christian sanctuary. Tafferner seems to have
  confused the two churches owing to their proximity to each other. Or
  his language may mean that the patriarchal seat was removed from S.
  Demetrius when SS. Peter and Paul was converted into a mosque, because
  too near a building which had become a Moslem place of worship.

The church of SS. Peter and Mark was founded, it is said, by two patricians of Constantinople,
named Galbius and Candidus, in 458, early in the reign of Leo I. (457-474). But the present
building cannot be so old. It is a fair question to ask whether it may not be the church of
S. Anastasia referred to in a chrysoboullon of John Palaeologus (1342), and mentioned by the
Russian pilgrim who visited Constantinople in the fifteenth century (1424-53).[307]

The church of SS. Peter and Mark was erected as a shrine for the supposed tunic of the Theotokos,
a relic which played an important part in the fortunes of Constantinople on several occasions,
as 'the palladium of the city and the chaser away of all diseases and warlike foes.' As often
happened in the acquisition of relics, the garment had been secured by a pious fraud--a fact
which only enhanced the merit of the purloiners, and gave to the achievement the colour of
a romantic adventure. In the course of their pilgrimage to the Holy Land, Galbius and Candidus
discovered, in the house of a devout Hebrew lady who entertained them, a small room fitted
up like a chapel, fragrant with incense, illuminated with lamps, and crowded with worshippers.
Being informed that the room was consecrated by the presence of a chest containing the robe
of the mother of their Lord, the pious men begged leave to spend the night in prayer beside
the relic, and while thus engaged were seized by an uncontrollable longing to gain possession
of the sacred garment. Accordingly they took careful measurements of the chest before them,
and at Jerusalem ordered an exact facsimile of it to be made. Thus equipped they lodged again,
on their homeward journey, at the house of their Galilean hostess, and once more obtained leave
to worship in its chapel. Watching their opportunity they exchanged the chests, and forthwith
despatched the chest containing the coveted treasure straight to Constantinople. They themselves
tarried behind, as though loth to quit a spot still hallowed by the sacred robe. Upon their
return to the capital the pious thieves erected a shrine for their prize on land which they
owned in the district of Blachernae, and dedicated the building to SS. Peter and Mark instead
of to the Theotokos, as would have been more appropriate, in the hope that they would thus
conceal the precious relic from the public eye, and retain it for their special benefit. But
the secret leaked out. Whereupon the emperor obliged the two patricians to surrender their
treasure, and, after renovating the neighbouring church of the Theotokos of Blachernae, deposited
the relic in that sanctuary as its proper home.

The site of that celebrated church lies at a short distance to the west of Hoja Atik Mustapha
Jamissi, and is marked by the Holy Well which was attached to it. The well, in whose waters
emperors and empresses were wont to bathe, is now enclosed by a modern Greek chapel, and is
still the resort of the faithful.

Architectural Features

The plan of the church presents the simplest form of the domed-cross type without galleries.
The dome, without drum, ribs, or windows, is almost certainly a Turkish reconstruction, but
the dome arches and piers are original. The arms of the cross and the small chambers at its
angles are covered with barrel vaults, and communicate with one another through lofty, narrow
arches. In the treatment of the northern and southern walls of the building considerable architectural
elaboration was displayed. At the floor level is a triple arcade; higher up are three windows
resting on the string-course; and still higher a window divided into three lights. The arches
in the church are enormously stilted, a feature due to the fact that the only string-course
in the building, though structurally corresponding to the vaulting spring, has been placed
at the height of what would properly be the column string-course. The three apses, much altered
by repairs, project boldly, all of them showing three sides on the exterior. The roof and the
cornice are Turkish, and the modern wooden narthex has probably replaced a Byzantine narthex.
On the opposite side of the street lies a cruciform font that belonged to the baptistery of
the church.

From a church of this type to the later four-columned plan is but a step. The dome piers of
SS. Peter and Mark are still [Symbol: L]-shaped, and form the internal angles of the cross.
As the arches between such piers and the external walls increased in size, the piers became
smaller, until eventually they were reduced to the typical four columns of the late churches.

[305] Synax., July 2.

[306] Ancient and Modern Constantinople, p. 83.

[307] [Greek: Neologou hebdomadiaia epitheôrêsis], January 3, 1893, p. 205; Itin. russes, p. 233.

CHAPTER XI

THE CHURCH OF THE MYRELAION, BODROUM JAMISSI

The identification of Bodroum Jamissi as the church attached to the monastery styled the Myrelaion
rests upon the tradition current in the Greek community when Gyllius visited the city. According
to that traveller, the church on the hill rising to the north of the eastern end of the gardens
of Vlanga, the site of the ancient harbour of Theodosius, was known as the Myrelaion--'Supra
locum hortorum Blanchae nuncupatorum, olim Portum Theodosianum continentium, extremam partem
ad ortum solis pertinentem, clivus a Septentrione eminet, in quo est templum vulgo nominatum
Myreleos.'[308] This agrees, so far, with the statement of the Anonymus[309] of the eleventh
century, that the Myrelaion stood on the side of the city looking towards the Sea of Marmora.
There is no record of the date when the monastery was founded. But the House must have been
in existence before the eighth century, for Constantine Copronymus (740-775), the bitter iconoclast,
displayed his contempt for monks and all their ways by scattering the fraternity, and changing
the fragrant name of the establishment, Myrelaion, the place of myrrh-oil, into the offensive
designation, Psarelaion, the place of fish-oil.[310] The monastery was restored by the Emperor
Romanus I. Lecapenus (919-945), who devoted his residence in this district to that object.[311]
Hence the monastery was sometimes described as 'in the palace of the Myrelaion,'[312] [Greek:
en tois palatiois tou Myrelaiou], and as 'the monastery of the Emperor Romanus,'[313] [Greek:
Monê tou basileôs Rhômanou]. It was strictly speaking a convent, and became noteworthy for
the distinguished rank of some of its inmates, and as the mausoleum in which the founder and
many members of his family were laid to rest. Here Romanus II. sent his sister Agatha to take
the veil, when he was obliged to dismiss her from the court to soothe the jealousy of his beautiful
but wicked consort Theophano.[314] Upon the abdication of Isaac Comnenus, his wife Aecatherina
and her daughter Maria retired to the Myrelaion, and there learned that a crown may be a badge
of slavery and the loss of it liberty.[315] Here were buried Theodora,[316] the wife of Romanus
Lecapenus, in 923, and, eight years later, his beloved son Christopher,[317] for whom he mourned,
says the historian of the event, with a sorrow 'greater than the grievous mourning of the Egyptians.'
Here also Helena, the daughter of Romanus Lecapenus, and wife of Constantine VII. Porphyrogenitus,
was laid to rest, in 981, after an imposing funeral, in which the body was carried to the grave
on a bier of gold adorned with pearls and other precious stones.[318] To this monastery were
transferred, from the monastery of S. Mamas, near the Gate of the Xylokerkou, the three sarcophagi,
one of them a fine piece of work, containing the ashes of the Emperor Maurice and his children.
And here also Romanus Lecapenus himself was interred in 948, his remains being brought from
the island of Proté, where his unfilial sons, Stephen and Constantine, had obliged him to spend
the last years of his life as a monk.[319]

Architectural Features

The building is on the 'four column' plan. The dome, placed on a circular drum, is supported
on four piers, and divided into eight concave compartments, with windows in the alternate compartments.
The arms of the cross, the chambers at the angles, and the bema are all covered with cross-groined
vaults that spring, like those in the chapel of the Pammakaristos (p. 151), from the vaulting
level. The apsidal chambers have dome vaults, a niche on the east recessed in an arch to form
the apse, and a niche both on the north and the south rising above the vaulting string-course.
In the lowest division of the south wall stood originally a triple arcade with a door between
the columns. The arcade has been built up, but the moulded jambs and cornices of the door,
and the arch above it, now contracted into a window, still show on the exterior, while the
columns appear within the church. Above the column string-course is a range of three windows,
the central window being larger than its companions; higher up in the gable is a single light.
The interior of the church has been much pulled about and cut away. The narthex is in three
bays, separated by strong transverse arches, and terminates at either end in a high concave
niche that shows on the outside. The central bay has a dome vault; the other bays have cross-groined
vaults. The church had no gynecaeum, although Pulgher indicates one in his plan. A striking
feature of the exterior are the large semicircular buttresses that show beyond the walls of
the church--six on the south side, one on either side of the entrance on the west, and two
on the east, supporting the apsidal chambers. In the last case, however, where entire buttresses
would have been at once too large and too close together, the buttresses are only half semi-circles.
The apses project with three sides. The northern side of the church and the roof are modern,
for the building suffered severely in 1784 from fire.[320] The church stands on a platform,
built over a small cistern, the roof of which is supported by four columns crowned by beautiful
capitals. Hence the Turkish name of the mosque, Bodroum, signifying a subterranean hollow.
Gyllius[321] is mistaken in associating this church with the large underground cistern situated
lower down the slope of the hill close to the bath Kyzlar Aghassi Hamam.

Since the above was in print, the church has, unfortunately, been burnt in the great fire which
destroyed a large part of Stamboul on the 23rd July 1912 (see Plates II., III.).

  NOTE

  Gyllius (De top. C.P. iii. c. 8) places the Horreum, the statue of
  Maimas, the house of Craterus, the Modius, and the arch bearing the
  two bronze hands, after passing which a criminal on the way to
  punishment lost all hope of reprieve, near this church; basing that
  opinion on the statement of Suidas that these buildings stood near the
  Myrelaion. But there was a Myrelaion also (Codinus, De aed. p. 108)
  in the district in which the Shahzadé mosque is situated. The
  buildings above mentioned were near this second Myrelaion. On the
  other hand, the Chrysocamaron near the Myrelaion mentioned by Codinus
  (De signis, pp. 65-66) stood near the church under our
  consideration, for it was close to the church of S. Acacius in the
  Heptascalon. So also, doubtless, did the xenodocheion Myrelaion (Du
  Cange, iv. p. 160), possibly one of the many philanthropic
  institutions supported by Helena (Theoph. Cont. p. 458), the daughter
  of Romanus Lecapenus and wife of Constantine VII. Porphyrogenitus.

[308] De top. C.P. iii. c. 8.

[309] Banduri, iii. p. 48.

[310] Ibid. ut supra.

[311] Theoph. Cont. p. 402.

[312] Scylitzes, in Cedrenus, ii. p. 649.

[313] Theoph. Cont. p. 404.

[314] Ibid. pp. 461, 757.

[315] Scylitzes, ut supra, pp. 648-49.

[316] Theoph. Cont. p. 402.

[317] Ibid. p. 420.

[318] Ibid. p. 473.

[319] Ibid. pp. 403-4.

[320] Chevalier, Voyage de la Propontide et du Pont Euxin, vol. i. p. 108.

[321] De top. C.P. iii. c. 8, 'habens inter se cisternam, cujus camera lateritia sustinetur
columnis marmoreis circiter sexaginta'; cf. Die byzant. Wasserbehälter, pp. 59, 222-23. The
bath of Kyzlar Aghassi Hamam may represent the bath built by the eunuch Nicetas, in the reign
of Theophilus, and was probably supplied with water from the cistern beside it (Banduri, vi.
p. 133).

CHAPTER XII

THE CHURCH OF S. JOHN THE BAPTIST IN TRULLO, ACHMED PASHA MESJEDI

The identification of the church of S. John the Baptist in Trullo ([Greek: Monê tou hagiou
prophêtou prodromou Iôannou tou en tô Troullô]) with the mosque of Achmed Pasha Mesjedi is
based on two reasons: first, because of their common proximity to the church of the Pammakaristos,[322]
now Fetiyeh Jamissi; secondly, on the ground of the tradition current in the Greek community
on that point. The latter reason is in this case particularly strong, seeing the church of
the Pammakaristos was the patriarchal cathedral almost immediately after the Turkish conquest,
and retained that honour until 1591.[323] The highest Greek ecclesiastical authorities were
therefore in a position to be thoroughly acquainted with the dedication of a church in their
close vicinity. In 1578 the protonotarius of the patriarch showed Gerlach the site of the Trullus
close to Achmed Pasha Mesjedi.[324]

The church is mentioned in history only by Phrantzes,[325] who informs us that when the Patriarch
Gennadius transferred the patriarchal seat to the monastery and church of the Pammakaristos,
certain nuns previously accommodated in that House were removed to the neighbouring monastery
of S. John Baptist in Trullo. Phrantzes explains the designation of the church, 'in Trullo,'
as derived from a palace named Trullus which once stood in the vicinity to the north of the
Pammakaristos. It was the palace, adds the historian,[326] in which the Council of Constantinople,
known as the Concilium Quinisextum ([Greek: Penthektê]), or the second Concilium Trullanum,
assembled in 692, in the reign of Justinian II. But the palace Trullus, in which the first
Concilium Trullanum met in 680, was one of the group of buildings forming the Great Palace[327]
beside the Hippodrome, and there the second Concilium Trullanum also held its meetings.[328]
Phrantzes is therefore mistaken in associating the Council of 692 with a palace in the vicinity
of the Pammakaristos and Achmed Pasha Mesjedi. But his mistake on that particular point does
not preclude the existence of a palace named Trullus in the neighbourhood of the Pammakaristos.
In fact, the existence of such a palace in that district is the only possible explanation of
the attachment of the style 'in Trullo' to a church on the site of Achmed Pasha Mesjedi. Nor
is it strange to find a name pertaining primarily to a building in the Great Palace transferred
to a similar building situated elsewhere. The imperial residence at the Hebdomon, for example,
was named Magnaura after one of the halls in the Great Palace.[329] There was an Oaton or Trullus
in the palace of Blachernae,[330] and in the palace at Nicaea.[331] Consequently, a palace
known as the Oaton or the Trullus might also be situated near the Pammakaristos, to command
the fine view from that point of the city. Mordtmann,[332] indeed, maintains that the building
to which Phrantzes refers was the palace at Bogdan Serai, the subsequent residence of the Moldavian
hospodar in Turkish days, and that the church of S. John in Trullo was not Achmed Pasha Mesjedi,
but the church of S. John in Petra (Kesmé Kaya) beside that palace. This opinion, however,
is at variance with the statements of Phrantzes and Gerlach. Furthermore, the designation 'in
Petra' was so distinctive a mark of the church of S. John near Kesmé Kaya, that the church
could scarcely have been recognised under another style.

Architectural Features

S. John in Trullo belongs to the ordinary 'four column' type of church building, and has a
narthex. Its three apses are semicircular both within and without, presenting the only instance
in Constantinople of apses semicircular on the exterior. The central apse projects m. 3 beyond
the body of the building, and was lighted by a large but low window, divided into three lights
by two pilasters crowned with carved capitals (for details see Fig. 68); the diaconicon has
been built up to form the mihrab of the mosque; the prothesis, to the north, has a barrel vault.

The drum dome is octagonal, with eight ribs and as many windows. It seems large for the size
of the church, and is lower than usual inside. The windows do not cut into the exterior cornice
of the dome. Originally the dome arches rested on four piers or columns, but these have been
removed in the course of Turkish repairs, and the dome arches are now supported by beams running
across the church, under the impost of the arches.

The arms of the cross to the north and south have barrel vaults, and the walls are pierced
by triple windows. Two capitals built into the exterior face of the northern wall, and marked
with a cross, were doubtless the capitals of the shafts which divided the northern window into
three lights. The western arm of the cross is covered by the roof of the narthex, and lighted
by a small round-headed window above it. The small narthex is in three bays, covered with cross-groined
vaults.

It is not probable that the church was converted into a mosque before 1591, when the patriarchal
seat was removed from the Pammakaristos to S. Demetrius beside the Xyloporta. Nor could the
conversion have been later than 1598, the year in which Achmed Pasha--who converted the building
into a mosque--died.[333]

[322] Phrantzes, p. 307.

[323] Patr. Constantius, p. 80.

[324] Tagebuch, p. 456. On the way eastwards from the residence of the Moldavian agent (Bogdan
Serai), says Gerlach, 'Auf diesem Spazier-weg hat mir Theodosius auch den Trullum auf der Seiten
des Patriarchats gegen dem Sultan Selim gewiesen. Welches vor diesen ein sehr weiter Platz
gewesen, nun aber nichts mehr da als ein rundes getäffeltes Haus, wie ein kleines Kirchlein
ist.' Cf. his statement reported by Crusius in Turcograecia, p. 189: 'Patriarchatui contiguum
est monasteriolum Joannis Baptistae a Graecis sanctimonalibus inhabitatum.'

[325] Phrantzes, p. 307; cf. Turcograecia, p. 189.

[326] It was also styled [Greek: Ôaton], 'the Oval,' after the form of its roof or of the body
of the building itself (Synax., Sept. 14). Vita Stephani. For the [Greek: Ôaton], see Labarte,
Le Palais impérial de Cons'ple, pp. 62, 121, 122, 186.

[327] Vita Stephani Junioris, Migne, P.G. tom. 100, col. 1144 [Greek: en tô hierô palatiô,
entha epilegetai ho Troullos hoper hêmeis Ôaton kaloumen].

[328] Balsamon, vol. i. col. 501 [Greek: en tô Troullô tou basilikou palatiou].

[329] Theoph. p. 541.

[330] Pachym. i. p. 405.

[331] Acta et diplomata Graeca, iii. p. 65; cf. Paspates, Great Palace, p. 248, Metcalfe's
translation.

[332] Proceedings of Greek Syllogos of C.P., Archaeological Supplement to vol. xvii. p. 8.
His principal reason seems to be the fact that a company of nuns occupied some of the cells
in the old monastery of S. John in Petra when Gerlach visited the city. But, according to Gerlach,
another sisterhood was at the same time accommodated in the small convent of S. John the Baptist
near the patriarchate.--Turcograecia, p. 189.

[333] Cf. Paspates, p. 304.

CHAPTER XIII

THE CHURCH OF S. THEKLA, TOKLOU IBRAHIM DEDÉ MESJEDI

In the quarter of Aivan Serai, a few paces to the rear of the Heraclian Wall, stands a small
mosque known as Toklou Ibrahim Dedé Mesjedi, the architectural features of which proclaim it
at once to be an old Byzantine chapel. There is no decisive tradition in regard to the identity
of the building. The Patriarch Constantius is uncertain whether it should be recognised as
the church of S. Nicholas or as the church of S. Thekla, two sanctuaries situated in the quarter
of Blachernae. It cannot have been the former, inasmuch as the site of that church was near
the Holy Well, still venerated by Christians and Moslems,[334] in the area enclosed between
the Wall of Heraclius and the Wall of Leo the Armenian, now a picturesque Turkish cemetery.
One argument for regarding the building as the church of S. Thekla, in this part of the city,
is the striking similarity of its Turkish name Toklou to the Greek name Thekla, rendering it
exceedingly probable that the former is a corruption of the latter, and a reminiscence of the
original designation of the edifice.[335] Turkish authorities, however, have their own explanation
of the name Toklou. In the Historical and Geographical Dictionary of Achmed Rifaat Effendi,
we are told that a certain Toklou Dedé was the guardian of the tombs of the companions of Khaled,
who took part in the first siege of Constantinople (673) by the Saracens. 'His real name was
Ghazi Ismail; Dogulu was his nickname. Now Dogh is the Persian for a drink named Airan (a mixture
of curds and water), and he was called Dogulu Dedé because during the siege his business was
to distribute that drink to the troops. At his request a Christian church near Aivan Serai
was converted into a mosque. The church was formerly named after its founder, Isakias.'[336]
Another Turkish explanation of Toklou derives the epithet from the rare Turkish term for a
yearling lamb, and accounts for its bestowal upon Ibrahim Dedé as a pet name given in gratitude
for his services to the thirsty soldiers engaged in the siege of the city.[337] In keeping
with these stories is the tradition that the cemetery in the area between the Walls of Heraclius
and Leo V. the Armenian, is the resting-place of Saracen warriors who fell in the siege of
673. But have we not here the fancy-bred tales which Oriental imagination weaves to veil its
ignorance of real facts? When etymology or history fails, romance is substituted. We may as
well believe the tradition that the body of Eyoub, the standard-bearer of Mahomet, lies buried
at the head of the Golden Horn, in the mosque of Eyoub, where the Sultan girds the sword on
his accession to the throne. No Moslem graves could have been tolerated between the lines of
the city's fortification in Byzantine days. The cemetery between the old walls near Toklou
Ibrahim Dedé Mesjedi must therefore be later than the Turkish conquest. And as soon as Moslems
were laid there, it was almost inevitable that a church in the immediate neighbourhood should
either be destroyed or converted into a mosque. By what name that mosque would thenceforth
become known was, of course, an open question. The new name might be purely Turkish. But when
it sounds like the echo of a name which we know belonged to a Byzantine building in this quarter
of the city before Turkish times, it is more reasonable to regard the new name as a transformation
of the earlier Greek term, than to derive it from fine-spun etymological fancies and historical
blunders. The identification, therefore, of Toklou Ibrahim Dedé Mesjedi with the church of
S. Thekla, on the ground of the similarity of the two names, has a strong presumption in its
favour.

NOTE ON THE CHURCH OF S. THEKLA

(CHAPTER XIII.)

  On page 209, note 3, I have said that if the mosque Aivas Effendi
  (more correctly Ivaz Effendi), which is situated behind the Tower of
  Isaac Angelus within the old area of the palace of Blachernae, could
  be proved to stand on the site of a church, the argument in favour of
  the identification of the Church of S. Thekla with Toklou Dedé Mesjedi
  would be weakened. Since this book went to the press, my learned
  friend Mr. X. A. Siderides has shown me a passage in the historical
  work of Mustapha Effendi of Salonica, published in 1865, where the
  mosque of Ivaz Effendi is described as a church converted into a
  mosque by a certain Ivaz Effendi who died in 1586, at the age of
  ninety. In that case we should have a Christian sanctuary whose
  position corresponded strictly with the position occupied by the
  Church of S. Thekla "in the palace of Blachernae," an indication not
  exactly accurate in regard to Toklou Dedé Mesjedi. In view of the late
  date of Mustapha Effendi's work, and the absence, so far as I can
  judge, of Byzantine features in the structure of the mosque, it is
  difficult to decide if the arguments in favour of the identification
  of the Church of S. Thekla with Toklou Dedé Mesjedi are entirely
  overthrown by the statement of Mustapha Effendi.

A second consideration in support of this identification is the statement made by Achmed Rifaat
Effendi, that before the church became a mosque it was known by the name of its founder, 'Isakias.'
For it is a matter of history that the church of S. Thekla was restored by the Emperor Isaac
Comnenus[338] in the eleventh century. The association of his name with the building was therefore
perfectly natural, if the building is indeed the old church of S. Thekla, otherwise it is difficult
to account for that association.

There is, however, one objection to this identification that must not be overlooked. According
to Byzantine authorities, the church of S. Thekla stood in the palace of Blachernae ([Greek:
entos tôn basileiôn; en tô palatiô tôn Blachernôn][339]). That palace occupied the heights
above Aivan Serai, on which the quarter of Egri Kapou and the mosque of Aivas Effendi now stand,
within the walls that enclose the western spur of the Sixth Hill. Toklou Ibrahim Dedé Mesjedi,
however, does not stand within that enclosure, but immediately to the north of it, on the level
tract that stretches from the foot of the Sixth Hill to the Golden Horn. If the reasons in
favour of regarding the mosque as S. Thekla were less strong, this objection would, perhaps,
be fatal. But the strip of land between the northern wall of the palace enclosure and the sea
is so narrow, and was so closely connected with the life of the imperial residence, that a
building on that tract might with pardonable inaccuracy be described, as 'in the palace.'[340]

The church is mentioned for the first time in the earlier half of the eighth century as a chapel
([Greek: euktêrion]) which Thekla, the eldest daughter of the Emperor Theophilus, restored
and attached to her residence at Blachernae.[341] The princess was an invalid, and doubtless
retired to this part of the city for the sake of its mild climate. To dedicate the chapel to
her patron saint was only natural. As already intimated, the church was rebuilt from the foundations,
in the eleventh century, by Isaac Comnenus, in devout gratitude for his escape from imminent
death[342] in the course of his campaign against the barbarous tribes beside the Danube, when
he was overtaken at the foot of the Lovitz mountain by a furious tempest of rain and snow.
The plain on which his army was encamped soon became a sheet of water, and many of his men
and animals were drowned or frozen to death. Thunder, lightning, and hurricane combined to
produce an awful scene, and there were moments when the whole world seemed on fire. The emperor
took shelter under a large oak, but, fearing the tree might be thrown down by the furious wind,
he soon made for open ground. Scarcely had he done so when the oak was torn up by the roots
and hurled to the earth. A few moments later the emperor would have been killed. This narrow
escape occurred on the 24th September, the festival day of S. Thekla, and, therefore, attributing
his deliverance to her intervention, Isaac rebuilt and greatly beautified the old sanctuary
dedicated to her in Blachernae, and frequently attended services there in her honour. Anna
Comnena[343] speaks of the restored church in the highest terms. According to her it was built
at great cost, displayed rare art, and was in every way worthy of the occasion which led to
its erection. Zonaras[344] is not so complimentary. He describes the church as a monument of
the niggardliness of Isaac Comnenus. In any case, it was pulled down and rebuilt in the following
century by the Emperor John Comnenus in splendid style, and dedicated to the Saviour.[345]
As the beauty and wealth of a Byzantine sanctuary were exhibited in the lavish adornment of
the interior, it is possible that the church of S. Thekla, though small and outwardly plain,
may have been a beautiful and rich building in its latest Christian character. It had then
the honour of seeing among the worshippers before its altar Anna Dalassena, the mother of the
Comneni. For, when charged with the government of the Empire during the absence of Alexius
Comnenus from the capital, that able woman came often to pray in this church, 'lest she should
be immersed in merely secular affairs.'[346]

Architectural Features

(For Plan see p. 206)

The building is an oblong hall, m. 13.55 by m. 5.4, divided into three compartments. It is
now covered with a wooden roof, but the arrangements of the breaks or pilasters on the walls
indicate that it had originally a dome. At the east end is a single apse, the usual side-apses
being represented by two niches. The western compartment served as a narthex. During the repairs
of the mosque in 1890, frescoes of the eikons which once decorated the walls were brought to
view. On the exterior the apse shows three sides, crowned with a corbelled cornice. The central
side is pierced by a window of good workmanship, divided by a shaft into two lights, and above
the window are two short blind concave niches. High blind concave niches indent the other sides
of the apse. In the northern wall are the remains of a triple window, divided by shafts built
in courses. Above this is a row of three small windows.

[334] Ancient and Modern C.P. p. 46.

[335] Paspates, p. 359.

[336] For this information I am indebted to Rev. H. O. Dwight, LL.D., late of the American
Board of Missions in Constantinople.

[337] Paspates, p. 357, note.

[338] Anna Comnena, vol. i. p. 168.

[339] Scylitzes, p. 647 (Cedrenus, vol. ii.); Zonaras, iii. p. 672.

[340] If the mosque Aivas Effendi could be proved to stand on the site of a church, the argument
against the identification of Toklou Dedé Mesjedi with the church of S. Thekla would be stronger.

[341] Theoph. Cont. p. 147.

[342] Anna Comnena, vol. i. p. 168.

[343] Ibid. vol. i. p. 168.

[344] Zonaras, iii. p. 672.

[345] Ibid. ut supra.

[346] Anna Comnena, vol. i. p. 169.

CHAPTER XIV

THE CHURCH OF S. SAVIOUR PANTEPOPTES, ESKI IMARET MESJEDI

The reasons which favour the identification of the mosque Eski Imaret Mesjedi, which is situated
on the heights above Aya Kapou (Gate of S. Theodosia), with the church of S. Saviour Pantepoptes,
the All-Seeing ([Greek: pantepoptês]), are the following: first, the tradition to that effect,[347]
which in the case of a building so conspicuous can scarcely be mistaken; secondly, the correspondence
of its position to that of the Pantepoptes, on a hill commanding an extensive view of the Golden
Horn;[348] and finally, the architectural features which mark it to be what the church of the
Pantepoptes was, a building of the Comnenian period. The church of the Pantepoptes was founded
or restored by Anna Dalassena,[349] the mother of Alexius I. Comnenus (1081-1118), one of the
most remarkable women in Byzantine history, combining to a rare degree domestic virtues with
great political ambition and administrative ability. For twenty years she was associated with
her son in the government of the Empire, and was the power behind the throne which he owed
largely to her energy and devotion. About the year 1100 she laid aside the cares of state,
and without renouncing altogether her royal style retired to rest in the monastery she had
built, until her death, five years later, at an advanced age.[350] There is nothing of special
importance to record in the annals of the House. Its inmates were occasionally disturbed by
the confinement among them of some dignitary who had offended the Government, or by the theological
disputes that agitated the ecclesiastical circles of the capital.[351] But for the most part
life at Pantepoptes was quiet and peaceful. Only once does the monastery stand out conspicuous
before the eyes of the world. When the Venetian ships under Henrico Dandolo, with the army
of the Fourth Crusade on board, lined the shore of the Golden Horn from Ispigas and the church
of S. Saviour the Benefactor to Blachernae (i.e. from Jubali Kapoussi to Aivan Serai) on Easter
Monday, 12th April 1204, the Emperor Alexius Murtzuphlus established his headquarters beside
the Pantepoptes. There he pitched his vermilion tent, marshalled his best troops, and watched
the operations of the enemy. And thence he fled when he saw the walls on the shore below him
carried by storm, and Flemish knights mounted on horses, which had been landed from the hostile
fleet, advancing to assault his position. So hurried was his flight that he left his tent standing,
and under its shelter Count Baldwin of Flanders and Hainault slept away the fatigue of that
day's victory.[352] During the Latin occupation the church passed into the hands of the Venetians,
and was robbed of many of its relics for the benefit of churches in the West.[353] Upon the
Turkish conquest it served for some time as an imaret or refectory for the students and teachers
of the medressé,[354] then in course of construction beside the great mosque of Sultan Mehemed.
Hence its Turkish name. After serving that purpose it was converted into a mosque later in
the reign of the conqueror.

  To face page 212.

Architectural Features

