It is said, that here even a Committee of Vigilance was appointed. This is a subject of reiterated
remark. This committee are pointed at, as though they had been officiously intermeddling with
the administration of justice. They are said to have been "laboring for months" against the
prisoner. Gentlemen, what must we do in such a case? Are people to be dumb and still, through
fear of overdoing? Is it come to this, that an effort cannot be made, a hand cannot be lifted,
to discover the guilty, without its being said there is a combination to overwhelm innocence?
Has the community lost all moral sense? Certainly, a community that would not be roused to
action upon an occasion such as this was, a community which should not deny sleep to their
eyes, and slumber to their eyelids, till they had exhausted all the means of discovery and
detection, must indeed be lost to all moral sense, and would scarcely deserve protection from
the laws. The learned counsel have endeavored to persuade you, that there exists a prejudice
against the persons accused of this murder. They would have you understand that it is not confined
to this vicinity alone; but that even the legislature have caught this spirit. That through
the procurement of the gentleman here styled private prosecutor, who is a member of the Senate,
a special session of this court was appointed for the trial of these offenders. That the ordinary
movements of the wheels of justice were too slow for the purposes devised. But does not everybody
see and know, that it was matter of absolute necessity to have a special session of the court?
When or how could the prisoners have been tried without a special session? In the ordinary
arrangement of the courts, but one week in a year is allotted for the whole court to sit in
this county. In the trial of all capital offences a majority of the court, at least, is required
to be present. In the trial of the present case alone, three weeks have already been taken
up. Without such special session, then, three years would not have been sufficient for the
purpose. It is answer sufficient to all complaints on this subject to say, that the law was
drawn by the late Chief Justice [3] himself, to enable the court to accomplish its duties,
and to afford the persons accused an opportunity for trial without delay.

Again, it is said that it was not thought of making Francis Knapp, the prisoner at the bar,
a PRINCIPAL till after the death of Richard Crowningshield, Jr.; that the present indictment
is an afterthought; that "testimony was got up" for the occasion. It is not so. There is no
authority for this suggestion. The case of the Knapps had not then been before the grand jury.
The officers of the government did not know what the testimony would be against them. They
could not, therefore, have determined what course they should pursue. They intended to arraign
all as principals who should appear to have been principals, and all as accessories who should
appear to have been accessories. All this could be known only when the evidence should be produced.
But the learned counsel for the defendant take a somewhat loftier flight still. They are more
concerned, they assure us, for the law itself, than even for their client. Your decision in
this case, they say, will stand as a precedent. Gentlemen, we hope it will. We hope it will
be a precedent both of candor and intelligence, of fairness and of firmness; a precedent of
good sense and honest purpose pursuing their investigation discreetly, rejecting loose generalities,
exploring all the circumstances, weighing each, in search of truth, and embracing and declaring
the truth when found.

It is said, that "laws are made, not for the punishment of the guilty, but for the protection
of the innocent." This is not quite accurate, perhaps, but if so, we hope they will be so administered
as to give that protection. But who are the innocent whom the law would protect? Gentlemen,
Joseph White was innocent. They are innocent who, having lived in the fear of God through the
day, wish to sleep in his peace through the night, in their own beds. The law is established
that those who live quietly may sleep quietly; that they who do no harm may feel none. The
gentleman can think of none that are innocent except the prisoner at the bar, not yet convicted.
Is a proved conspirator to murder innocent? Are the Crowningshields and the Knapps innocent?
What is innocence? How deep stained with blood, how reckless in crime, how deep in depravity
may it be, and yet remain innocence? The law is made, if we would speak with entire accuracy,
to protect the innocent by punishing the guilty. But there are those innocent out of a court,
as well as in; innocent citizens not suspected of crime, as well as innocent prisoners at the bar.

The criminal law is not founded in a principle of vengeance. It does not punish that it may
inflict suffering. The humanity of the law feels and regrets every pain it causes, every hour
of restraint it imposes, and more deeply still every life it forfeits. But it uses evil as
the means of preventing greater evil. It seeks to deter from crime by the example of punishment.
This is its true, and only true main object. It restrains the liberty of the few offenders,
that the many who do not offend may enjoy their liberty. It takes the life of the murderer,
that other murders may not be committed. The law might open the jails, and at once set free
all persons accused of offences, and it ought to do so if it could be made certain that no
other offences would hereafter be committed, because it punishes, not to satisfy any desire
to inflict pain, but simply to prevent the repetition of crimes. When the guilty, therefore,
are not punished, the law has so far failed of its purpose; the safety of the innocent is so
far endangered. Every unpunished murder takes away something from the security of every man's
life. Whenever a jury, through whimsical and ill- founded scruples, suffer the guilty to escape,
they make themselves answerable for the augmented danger of the innocent.

We wish nothing to be strained against this defendant. Why, then, all this alarm? Why all this
complaint against the manner in which the crime is discovered? The prisoner's counsel catch
at supposed flaws of evidence, or bad character of witnesses, without meeting the case. Do
they mean to deny the conspiracy? Do they mean to deny that the two Crowningshields and the
two Knapps were conspirators? Why do they rail against Palmer, while they do not disprove,
and hardly dispute, the truth of any one fact sworn to by him? Instead of this, it is made
matter of sentimentality that Palmer has been prevailed upon to betray his bosom companions
and to violate the sanctity of friendship. Again I ask, Why do they not meet the case? If the
fact is out, why not meet it? Do they mean to deny that Captain White is dead? One would have
almost supposed even that, from some remarks that have been made. Do they mean to deny the
conspiracy? Or, admitting a conspiracy, do they mean to deny only that Frank Knapp, the prisoner
at the bar, was abetting in the murder, being present, and so deny that he was a principal?
If a conspiracy is proved, it bears closely upon every subsequent subject of inquiry. Why do
they not come to the fact? Here the defence is wholly indistinct. The counsel neither take
the ground, nor abandon it. They neither fly, nor light. They hover. But they must come to
a closer mode of contest. They must meet the facts, and either deny or admit them. Had the
prisoner at the bar, then, a knowledge of this conspiracy or not? This is the question. Instead
of laying out their strength in complaining of the manner in which the deed is discovered,
of the extraordinary pains taken to bring the prisoner's guilt to light, would it not be better
to show there was no guilt? Would it not be better to show his innocence? They say, and they
complain, that the community feel a great desire that he should be punished for his crimes.
Would it not be better to convince you that he has committed no crime?

Gentlemen, let us now come to the case. Your first inquiry, on the evidence, will be, Was Captain
White murdered in pursuance of a conspiracy, and was the defendant one of this conspiracy?
If so, the second inquiry is, Was he so connected with the murder itself as that he is liable
to be convicted as a principal? The defendant is indicted as a principal. If not guilty as
such, you cannot convict him. The indictment contains three distinct classes of counts. In
the first, he is charged as having done the deed with his own hand; in the second, as an aider
and abettor to Richard Crowningshield, Jr., who did the deed; in the third, as an aider and
abettor to some person unknown. If you believe him guilty on either of these counts, or in
either of these ways, you must convict him.

It may be proper to say, as a preliminary remark, that there are two extraordinary circumstances
attending this trial. One is, that Richard Crowningshield, Jr., the supposed immediate perpetrator
of the murder, since his arrest, has committed suicide. He has gone to answer before a tribunal
of perfect infallibility. The other is, that Joseph Knapp, the supposed originator and planner
of the murder, having once made a full disclosure of the facts, under a promise of indemnity,
is, nevertheless, not now a witness. Notwithstanding his disclosure and his promise of indemnity,
he now refuses to testify. He chooses to return to his original state, and now stands answerable
himself, when the time shall come for his trial. These circumstances it is fit you should remember,
in your investigation of the case.

Your decision may affect more than the life of this defendant. If he be not convicted as principal,
no one can be. Nor can any one be convicted of a participation in the crime as accessory. The
Knapps and George Crowningshield will be again on the community. This shows the importance
of the duty you have to perform, and serves to remind you of the care and wisdom necessary
to be exercised in its performance. But certainly these considerations do not render the prisoner's
guilt any clearer, nor enhance the weight of the evidence against him. No one desires you to
regard consequences in that light. No one wishes any thing to be strained, or too far pressed
against the prisoner. Still, it is fit you should see the full importance of the duty which
devolves upon you.[4] . . .

Gentlemen, your whole concern should be to do your duty, and leave consequences to take care
of themselves. You will receive the law from the court. Your verdict, it is true, may endanger
the prisoner's life, but then it is to save other lives. If the prisoner's guilt has been shown
and proved beyond all reasonable doubt, you will convict him. If such reasonable doubts of
guilt still remain, you will acquit him. You are the judges of the whole case. You owe a duty
to the public, as well as to the prisoner at the bar. You cannot presume to be wiser than the
law. Your duty is a plain, straightforward one. Doubtless we would all judge him in mercy.
Towards him, as an individual, the law inculcates no hostility; but towards him, if proved
to be a murderer, the law, and the oaths you have taken, and public justice, demand that you
do your duty.

With consciences satisfied with the discharge of duty, no consequences can harm you. There
is no evil that we cannot either face or fly from, but the consciousness of duty disregarded.
A sense of duty pursues us ever. It is omnipresent, like the Deity. If we take to ourselves
the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, duty performed, or duty
violated, is still with us, for our happiness or our misery. If we say the darkness shall cover
us, in the darkness as in the light our obligations are yet with us. We cannot escape their
power, nor fly from their presence. They are with us in this life, will be with us at its close;
and in that scene of inconceivable solemnity, which lies yet further onward, we shall still
find ourselves surrounded by the consciousness of duty, to pain us wherever it has been violated,
and to console us so far as God may have given us grace to perform it.

THE CONSTITUTION NOT A COMPACT BETWEEN SOVEREIGN STATES.

Mr. President,-The gentleman from South Carolina has admonished us to be mindful of the opinions
of those who shall come after us. We must take our chance, Sir, as to the light in which posterity
will regard us. I do not decline its judgment, nor withhold myself from its scrutiny. Feeling
that I am performing my public duty with singleness of heart and to the best of my ability,
I fearlessly trust myself to the country, now and hereafter, and leave both my motives and
my character to its decision.

The gentleman has terminated his speech in a tone of threat and defiance towards this bill,
even should it become a law of the land, altogether unusual in the halls of Congress. But I
shall not suffer myself to be excited into warmth by his denunciation of the measure which
I support. Among the feelings which at this moment fill my breast, not the least is that of
regret at the position in which the gentleman has placed himself. Sir, he does himself no justice.
The cause which he has espoused finds no basis in the Constitution, no succor from public sympathy,
no cheering from a patriotic community. He has no foothold on which to stand while he might
display the powers of his acknowledged talents. Every thing beneath his feet is hollow and
treacherous. He is like a strong man struggling in a morass: every effort to extricate himself
only sinks him deeper and deeper. And I fear the resemblance may be carried still farther;
I fear that no friend can safely come to his relief, that no one can approach near enough to
hold out a helping hand, without danger of going down himself, also, into the bottomless depths
of this Serbonian bog.

The honorable gentleman has declared, that on the decision of the question now in debate may
depend the cause of liberty itself. I am of the same opinion; but then, Sir, the liberty which
I think is staked on the contest is not political liberty, in any general and undefined character,
but our own well-understood and long-enjoyed American liberty,

Sir, I love Liberty no less ardently than the gentleman himself, in whatever form she may have
appeared in the progress of human history. As exhibited in the master states of antiquity,
as breaking out again from amidst the darkness of the Middle Ages, and beaming on the formation
of new communities in modern Europe, she has, always and everywhere, charms for me. Yet, Sir,
it is our own liberty, guarded by constitutions and secured by union, it is that liberty which
is our paternal inheritance, it is our established, dear-bought, peculiar American liberty,
to which I am chiefly devoted, and the cause of which I now mean, to the utmost of my power,
to maintain and defend.

Mr. President, if I considered the constitutional question now before us as doubtful as it
is important, and if I supposed that its decision, either in the Senate or by the country,
was likely to be in any degree influenced by the manner in which I might now discuss it, this
would be to me a moment of deep solicitude. Such a moment has once existed. There has been
a time, when, rising in this place, on the same question, I felt, I must confess, that something
for good or evil to the Constitution of the country might depend on an effort of mine. But
circumstances are changed. Since that day, Sir, the public opinion has become awakened to this
great question; it has grasped it; it has reasoned upon it, as becomes an intelligent and patriotic
community, and has settled it, or now seems in the progress of settling it, by an authority
which none can disobey, the authority of the people themselves.

I shall not, Mr. President, follow the gentleman, step by step, through the course of his speech.
Much of what he has said he has deemed necessary to the just explanation and defence of his
own political character and conduct. On this I shall offer no comment. Much, too, has consisted
of philosophical remark upon the general nature of political liberty, and the history of free
institutions; and upon other topics, so general in their nature as to possess, in my opinion,
only a remote bearing on the immediate subject of this debate.

But the gentleman's speech made some days ago, upon introducing his resolutions, those resolutions
themselves, and parts of the speech now just concluded, may, I presume, be justly regarded
as containing the whole South Carolina doctrine. That doctrine it is my purpose now to examine,
and to compare it with the Constitution of the United States. I shall not consent, Sir, to
make any new constitution, or to establish another form of government. I will not undertake
to say what a constitution for these United States ought to be. That question the people have
decided for themselves; and I shall take the instrument as they have established it, and shall
endeavor to maintain it, in its plain sense and meaning, against opinions and notions, which,
in my judgment, threaten its subversion.

The resolutions introduced by the gentleman were apparently drawn up with care, and brought
forward upon deliberation. I shall not be in danger, therefore, of misunderstanding him, or
those who agree with him, if I proceed at once to these resolutions, and consider them as an
authentic statement of those opinions upon the great constitutional question by which the recent
proceedings in South Carolina are attempted to be justified.

These resolutions are three in number.

The third seems intended to enumerate, and to deny, the several opinions expressed in the President's
proclamation, respecting the nature and powers of this government. Of this third resolution,
I purpose, at present, to take no particular notice.

The first two resolutions of the honorable member affirm these propositions, viz.:--

1. That the political system under which we live, and under which Congress is now assembled,
is a compact, to which the people of the several States, as separate and sovereign communities,
are the parties.

2. That these sovereign parties have a right to judge, each for itself, of any alleged violation
of the Constitution by Congress; and, in case of such violation, to choose, each for itself,
its own mode and measure of redress.

It is true, Sir, that the honorable member calls this a "constitutional" compact; but still
he affirms it to be a compact between sovereign States. What precise meaning, then, does he
attach to the term constitutional? When applied to compacts between sovereign States, the term
constitutional affixes to the word compact no definite idea. Were we to hear of a constitutional
league or treaty between England and France, or a constitutional convention between Austria
and Russia, we should not understand what could be intended by such a league, such a treaty,
or such a convention. In these connections, the word is void of all meaning; and yet, Sir,
it is easy, quite easy, to see why the honorable gentleman has used it in these resolutions.
He cannot open the book, and look upon our written frame of government, without seeing that
it is called a constitution. This may well be appalling to him. It threatens his whole doctrine
of compact, and its darling derivatives, nullification and secession, with instant confutation.
Because, if he admits our instrument of government to be a constitution, then, for that very
reason, it is not a compact between sovereigns; a constitution of government and a compact
between sovereign powers being things essentially unlike in their very natures, and incapable
of ever being the same. Yet the word constitution is on the very front of the instrument. He
cannot overlook it. He seeks, therefore, to compromise the matter, and to sink all the substantial
sense of the word, while he retains a resemblance of its sound. He introduces a new word of
his own, viz. compact, as importing the principal idea, and designed to play the principal
part, and degrades constitution into an insignificant, idle epithet, attached to compact. The
whole then stands as a "constitutional compact"! And in this way he hopes to pass off a plausible
gloss, as satisfying the words of the instrument. But he will find himself disappointed. Sir,
I must say to the honorable gentleman, that, in our American political grammar, CONSTITUTION
is a noun substantive; it imports a distinct and clear idea of itself; and it is not to lose
its importance and dignity, it is not to be turned into a poor, ambiguous, senseless, unmeaning
adjective, for the purpose of accommodating any new set of political notions. Sir, we reject
his new rules of syntax altogether. We will not give up our forms of political speech to the
grammarians of the school of nullification. By the Constitution, we mean, not a "constitutional
compact," but, simply and directly, the Constitution, the fundamental law; and if there be
one word in the language which the people of the United States understand, this is that word.
We know no more of a constitutional compact between sovereign powers, than we know of a constitutional
indenture of copartnership, a constitutional deed of conveyance, or a constitutional bill of
exchange. But we know what the Constitution is; we know what the plainly written fundamental
law is; we know what the bond of our Union and the security of our liberties is; and we mean
to maintain and to defend it, in its plain sense and unsophisticated meaning.

The sense of the gentleman's proposition, therefore, is not at all affected, one way or the
other, by the use of this word. That proposition still is, that our system of government is
but a compact between the people of separate and sovereign States.

Was it Mirabeau, Mr. President, or some other master of the human passions, who has told us
that words are things? They are indeed things, and things of mighty influence, not only in
addresses to the passions and high-wrought feelings of mankind, but in the discussion of legal
and political questions also; because a just conclusion is often avoided, or a false one reached,
by the adroit substitution of one phrase, or one word, for another. Of this we have, I think,
another example in the resolutions before us.

The first resolution declares that the people of the several States "acceded" to the Constitution,
or to the constitutional compact, as it is called. This word "accede," not found either in
the Constitution itself, or in the ratification of it by any one of the States, has been chosen
for use here, doubtless, not without a well-considered purpose.

The natural converse of accession is secession; and, therefore, when it is stated that the
people of the States acceded to the Union, it may be more plausibly argued that they may secede
from it. If, in adopting the Constitution, nothing was done but acceding to a compact, nothing
would seem necessary, in order to break it up, but to secede from the same compact. But the
term is wholly out of place. Accession, as a word applied to political associations, implies
coming into a league, treaty, or confederacy, by one hitherto a stranger to it; and secession
implies departing from such league or confederacy. The people of the United States have used
no such form of expression in establishing the present government. They do not say that they
accede to a league, but they declare that they ordain and establish a Constitution. Such are
the very words of the instrument itself; and in all the States, without an exception, the language
used by their conventions was, that they "ratified the Constitution"; some of them employing
the additional words "assented to" and "adopted," but all of them "ratifying."

There is more importance than may, at first sight, appear, in the introduction of this new
word, by the honorable mover of these resolutions. Its adoption and use are indispensable to
maintain those premises from which his main conclusion is to be afterwards drawn. But before
showing that, allow me to remark, that this phraseology tends to keep out of sight the just
view of a previous political history, as well as to suggest wrong ideas as to what was actually
done when the present Constitution was agreed to. In 1789, and before this Constitution was
adopted, the United States had already been in a union, more or less close, for fifteen years.
At least as far back as the meeting of the first Congress, in 1774, they had been in some measure,
and for some national purposes, united together. Before the Confederation of 1781, they had
declared independence jointly, and had carried on the war jointly, both by sea and land; and
this not as separate States, but as one people. When, therefore, they formed that Confederation,
and adopted its articles as articles of perpetual union, they did not come together for the
first time; and therefore they did not speak of the States as acceding to the Confederation,
although it was a league, and nothing but a league, and rested on nothing but plighted faith
for its performance. Yet, even then, the States were not strangers to each other; there was
a bond of union already subsisting between them; they were associated, united States; and the
object of the Confederation was to make a stronger and better bond of union. Their representatives
deliberated together on these proposed Articles of Confederation, and being authorized by their
respective States, finally "ratified and confirmed" them. Inasmuch as they were already in
union, they did not speak of acceding to the new Articles of Confederation, but of ratifying
and confirming them; and this language was not used inadvertently, because, in the same instrument,
accession is used in its proper sense, when applied to Canada, which was altogether a stranger
to the existing union. "Canada," says the eleventh article, "acceding to this Confederation,
and joining in the measures of the United States, shall be admitted into the Union."

Having thus used the terms ratify and confirm, even in regard to the old Confederation, it
would have been strange indeed, if the people of the United States, after its formation, and
when they came to establish the present Constitution, had spoken of the States, or the people
of the States, as acceding to this constitution. Such language would have been ill-suited to
the occasion. It would have implied an existing separation or disunion among the States, such
as never has existed since 1774. No such language, therefore, was used. The language actually
employed is, adopt, ratify, ordain, establish.

Therefore, Sir, since any State, before she can prove her right to dissolve the Union, must
show her authority to undo what has been done, no State is at liberty to secede, on the ground
that she and other States have done nothing but accede. She must show that she has a right
to reverse what has been ordained, to unsettle and overthrow what has been established, to
reject what the people have adopted, and to breakup what have ratified; because these are the
terms which express the transactions which have actually taken place. In other words, she must
show her right to make a revolution.

If, Mr. President, in drawing these resolutions, the honorable member and confined himself
to the use of constitutional language, there would have been a wide and awful hiatus between
his premises and his conclusion. Leaving out the two words compact and accession, which are
not constitutional modes of expression, and stating the matter precisely as the truth is, his
first resolution would have affirmed that the people of the several States ratified this Constitution,
or form of government. These are the very words of South Carolina herself, in her act of ratification.
Let, then, his first resolution tell the exact truth; let it state the fact precisely as it
exists; let it say that the people of the several States ratified a constitution, or form of
government, and then, Sir, what will become of his inference in his second resolution, which
is in these words, viz. "that, as in all other cases of compact among sovereign parties, each
has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of the infraction as of the mode and measure
of redress"? It is obvious, is it not, Sir? that this conclusion requires for its support quite
other premises; it requires premises which speak of accession and of compact between sovereign
powers; and, without such premises, it is altogether unmeaning.

Mr. President, if the honorable member will truly state what the people did in forming this
Constitution, and then state what they must do if they would now undo what they then did, he
will unavoidably state a case of revolution.

Let us see if it be not so. He must state, in the first place, that the people of the several
States adopted and ratified this Constitution, or form of government; and, in the next place,
he must state that they have a right to undo this; that is to say, that they have a right to
discard the form of government which they have adopted, and to break up the Constitution which
they have ratified. Now, Sir, this is neither more nor less than saying that they have a right
to make a revolution. To reject an established government, to break up a political constitution,
is revolution.

I deny that any man can state accurately what was done by the people, in establishing the present
Constitution, and then state accurately what the people, or any part of them, must now do to
get rid of its obligations, without stating an undeniable case of the overthrow of government.
I admit, of course, that the people may, if they choose, overthrow the government. But, then,
that is revolution. The doctrine how contended for is, that, by nullification, or secession,
the obligations and authority of the government may be set aside or rejected, without revolution.
But that is what I deny; and what I say is, that no man can state the case with historical
accuracy, and in constitutional language, without showing that the honorable gentleman's right,
as asserted in his conclusion, is a revolutionary right merely; that it does not and cannot
exist under the Constitution, or agreeably to the Constitution, but can come into existence
only when the Constitution is overthrown. This is the reason, Sir, which makes it necessary
to abandon the use of constitutional language for a new vocabulary, and to substitute, in the
place of plain historical facts, a series of assumptions. This is the reason why it is necessary
to give new names to things, to speak of the Constitution, not as a constitution, but as a
compact, and of the ratifications by the people, not as ratifications, but as acts of accession.

Sir, I intend to hold the gentlemen to the written record. In the discussion of a constitutional
question, I intend to impose upon him the restraints of constitutional language. The people
have ordained a Constitution; can they reject it without revolution? They have established
a form of government; can they overthrow it without revolution? These are the true questions.

Allow me now, Mr. President, to inquire further into the extent of the propositions contained
in the resolutions, and their necessary consequences.

Where sovereign communities are parties, there is no essential difference between a compact,
a confederation, and a league. They all equally rest on the plighted faith of the sovereign
party. A league, or confederacy, is but a subsisting or continuing treaty.

The gentleman's resolutions, then, affirm, in effect, that these twenty- four United States
are held together only by a subsisting treaty, resting for its fulfilment and continuance on
no inherent power of its own, but on the plighted faith of each State; or, in other words,
that our Union is but a league; and, as a consequence from this proposition, they further affirm
that, as sovereigns are subject to no superior power, the States must judge, each for itself,
of any alleged violation of the league; and if such violation be supposed to have occurred,
each may adopt any mode or measure of redress which it shall think proper.

Other consequences naturally follow, too, from the main proposition. If a league between sovereign
powers have no limitation as to the time of its duration, and contain nothing making it perpetual,
it subsists only during the good pleasure of the parties, although no violation be complained
of. If, in the opinion of either party, it be violated, such party may say that he will no
longer fulfil its obligations on his part, but will consider the whole league or compact at
an end, although it might be one of its stipulations that it should be perpetual. Upon this
principle, the Congress of the United States, in 1798, declared null and void the treaty of
alliance between the United States and France, though it professed to be a perpetual alliance.

If the violation of the league be accompanied with serious injuries, the suffering party, being
sole judge of his own mode and measure of redress, has a right to indemnify himself by reprisals
on the offending members of the league; and reprisals, if the circumstances of the case require
it, may be followed by direct, avowed, and public war.

The necessary import of the resolution, therefore, is that the United States are connected
only by a league; that it is in the good pleasure of every State to decide how long she will
choose to remain a member of this league; that any State may determine the extent of her own
obligations under it, and accept or reject what shall be decided by the whole; that she may
also determine whether her rights have been violated, what is the extent of the injury done
her, and what mode and measure of redress her wrongs may make it fit and expedient for her
to adopt. The result of the whole is, that any State may secede at pleasure; that any State
may resist a law which she herself may choose to say exceeds the power of Congress; and that,
as a sovereign power, she may redress her own grievances, by her own arm, at her own discretion.
She may make reprisals; she may cruise against the property of other members of the league;
she may authorize captures, and make open war.

If, Sir, this be our political condition, it is time the people of the United States understood
it. Let us look for a moment to the practical consequences of these opinions. One State, holding
an embargo law unconstitutional, may declare her opinion, and withdraw from the Union. She
secedes. Another, forming and expressing the same judgment on a law laying duties on imports,
may withdraw also. She secedes. And as, in her opinion, money has been taken out of the pockets
of her citizens illegally, under pretence of this law, and as she has power to redress their
wrongs, she may demand satisfaction; and, if refused, she may take it with a strong hand. The
gentleman has himself pronounced the collection of duties, under existing laws, to be nothing
but robbery. Robbers, of course, may be rightfully dispossessed of the fruits of their flagitious
crimes; and therefore, reprisals, impositions on the commerce of other States, foreign alliances
against them, or open war, are all modes of redress justly open to the discretion and choice
of South Carolina; for she is to judge of her own rights, and to seek satisfaction for her
own wrongs, in her own way.

But, Sir, a third State is of opinion, not only that these laws of imposts are constitutional,
but that it is the absolute duty of Congress to pass and to maintain such laws; and that, by
omitting to pass and maintain them, its constitutional obligations would be grossly disregarded.
She herself relinquished the power of protection, she might allege, and allege truly, and gave
it up to Congress, on the faith that Congress would exercise it. If Congress now refuse to
exercise it, Congress does, as she may insist, break the condition of the grant, and thus manifestly
violate the Constitution; and for this violation of the Constitution, she may threaten to secede
also. Virginia may secede, and hold the fortresses in the Chesapeake. The Western States may
secede, and take to their own use the public lands. Louisiana may secede, if she choose, form
a foreign alliance, and hold the mouth of the Mississippi. If one State may secede, ten may
do so, twenty may do so, twenty-three may do so. Sir, as these secessions go on, one after
another, what is to constitute the United States? Whose will be the army? Whose the navy? Who
will pay the debts? Who fulfil the public treaties? Who perform the constitutional guaranties?
Who govern this District and the Territories? Who retain the public property?

Mr. President, every man must see that these are all questions which can arise only after a
revolution. They presuppose the breaking up of the government. While the Constitution lasts,
they are repressed; they spring up to annoy and startle us only from its grave.

The Constitution does not provide for events which must be preceded by its own destruction.
SECESSION, therefore, since it must bring these consequences with it, is REVOLUTIONARY, and
NULLIFICATION is equally REVOLUTIONARY. What is revolution? Why, Sir, that is revolution which
overturns, or controls, or successfully resists, the existing public authority; that which
arrests the exercise of the supreme power; that which introduces a new paramount authority
into the rule of the State. Now, Sir, this is the precise object of nullification. It attempts
to supersede the supreme legislative authority. It arrests the arm of the executive magistrate.
It interrupts the exercise of the accustomed judicial power. Under the name of an ordinance,
it declares null and void, within the State, all the revenue laws of the United States. Is
not this revolutionary? Sir, so soon as this ordinance shall be carried into effect, a revolution
will have commenced in South Carolina. She will have thrown off the authority to which her
citizens have heretofore been subject. She will have declared her own opinions and her own
will to be above the laws and above the power of those who are intrusted with their administration.
If she makes good these declarations, she is revolutionized. As to her, it is as distinctly
a change of the supreme power as the American Revolution of 1776. That revolution did not subvert
government in all its forms. It did not subvert local laws and municipal administrations. It
only threw off the dominion of a power claiming to be superior, and to have a right, in many
important respects, to exercise legislative authority. Thinking this authority to have been
usurped or abused, the American Colonies, now the United States, bade it defiance, and freed
themselves from it by means of a revolution. But that revolution left them with their own municipal
laws still, and the forms of local government. If Carolina now shall effectually resist the
laws of Congress; if she shall be her own judge, take her remedy into her own hands, obey the
laws of the Union when she pleases and disobey them when she pleases, she will relieve herself
from a paramount power as distinctly as the American Colonies did the same thing in 1776. In
other words, she will achieve, as to herself, a revolution.

But, Sir, while practical nullification in South Carolina would be, as to herself, actual and
distinct revolution, its necessary tendency must also be to spread revolution, and to break
up the Constitution, as to all the other States. It strikes a deadly blow at the vital principle
of the whole Union. To allow State resistance to the laws of Congress to be rightful and proper,
to admit nullification in some States, and yet not expect to see a dismemberment of the entire
government, appears to me the wildest illusion, and the most extravagant folly. The gentleman
seems not conscious of the direction or the rapidity of his own course. The current of his
opinions sweeps him along, he knows not whither. To begin with nullification, with the avowed
intent, nevertheless, not to proceed to secession, dismemberment, and general revolution, is
as if one were to take the plunge of Niagara, and cry out that he would stop half-way down.
In the one case, as in the other, the rash adventurer must go to the bottom of the dark abyss
below, were it not that that abyss has no discovered bottom.

Nullification, if successful, arrests the power of the law, absolves citizens from their duty,
subverts the foundation both of protection and obedience, dispenses with oaths and obligations
of allegiance, and elevates another authority to supreme command. Is not this revolution? And
it raises to supreme command four-and-twenty distinct powers, each professing to be under a
general government, and yet each setting its laws at defiance at pleasure. Is not this anarchy,
as well as revolution? Sir, the Constitution of the United States was received as a whole,
and for the whole country. If it cannot stand altogether, it cannot stand in parts; and if
the laws cannot be executed everywhere, they cannot long be executed anywhere. The gentleman
very well knows that all duties and imposts must be uniform throughout the country. He knows
that we cannot have one rule or one law for South Carolina, and another for other States. He
must see, therefore, and does see, and every man sees, that the only alternative is a repeal
of the laws throughout the whole Union, or their execution in Carolina as well as elsewhere.
And this repeal is demanded because a single State interposes her veto, and threatens resistance!
The result of the gentleman's opinion, or rather the very text of his doctrine, is, that no
act of Congress can bind all the States, the constitutionality of which is not admitted by
all; or, in other words, that no single State is bound, against its own dissent, by a law of
imposts. This is precisely the evil experienced under the old Confederation, and for remedy
of which this Constitution was adopted. The leading object in establishing this government,
an object forced on the country by the conditions of the times and the absolute necessity of
the law, was to give to Congress power to lay and collect imposts without the consent of particular
States. The Revolutionary debt remained unpaid; the national treasury was bankrupt; the country
was destitute of credit; Congress issued its requisitions on the States, and the States neglected
them; there was no power of coercion but war, Congress could not lay imposts, or other taxes,
by its own authority; the whole general government, therefore, was little more than a name.
The Articles of Confederation, as to purposes of revenue and finance, were nearly a dead letter.
The country sought to escape from this condition, at once feeble and disgraceful, by constituting
a government which should have power, of itself, to lay duties and taxes, and to pay the public
debt, and provide for the general welfare; and to lay these duties and taxes in all the States,
without asking the consent of the State governments. This was the very power on which the new
Constitution was to depend for all its ability to do good; and without it, it can be no government,
now or at any time. Yet, Sir, it is precisely against this power, so absolutely indispensable
to the very being of the government, that South Carolina directs her ordinance. She attacks
the government in its authority to raise revenue, the very mainspring of the whole system;
and if she succeed, every movement of that system must inevitably cease. It is of no avail
that she declares that she does not resist the law as a revenue law, but as a law for protecting
manufacturers. It is a revenue law; it is the very law by force of which the revenue is collected;
if it be arrested in any State, the revenue ceases in that State; it is, in a word, the sole
reliance of the government for the means of maintaining itself and performing its duties.

Mr. President, the alleged right of a State to decide constitutional questions for herself
necessarily leads to force because other States must have the same right, and because different
States will decide differently; and when these questions arise between States, if there be
no superior power, they can be decided only by the law of force. On entering into the Union,
the people of each State gave up a part of their own power to make laws for themselves, in
consideration, that, as to common objects, they should have a part in making laws for other
States. In other words, the people of all the States agreed to create a common government,
to be conducted by common counsels. Pennsylvania, for example, yielded the right of laying
imposts in her own ports, in consideration that the new government, in which she was to have
a share, should possess the power of laying imposts on all the States. If South Carolina now
refuses to submit to this power, she breaks the condition on which other States entered into
the Union. She partakes of the common counsels, and therein assists to bind others, while she
refuses to be bound herself. It makes no difference in the case whether she does all this without
reason or pretext, or whether she sets up as a reason, that, in her judgment, the acts complained
of are unconstitutional. In the judgment of other States, they are not so. It is nothing to
them that she offers some reason or some apology for her conduct, if it be one which they do
not admit. It is not to be expected that any State will violate her duty without some plausible
pretext. That would be too rash a defiance of the opinion of mankind. But if it be a pretext
which lies in her own breast, if it be no more than an opinion which she says she has formed,
how can other States be satisfied with this? How can they allow her to be judge of her own
obligations? Or, if she may judge of her obligations, may they not judge of their rights also?
May not the twenty-three entertain an opinion as well as the twenty- fourth? And if it be their
right, in their own opinion, as expressed in the common council, to enforce the law against
her, how is she to say that her right and her opinion are to be every thing, and their right
and their opinion nothing?

Mr. President, if we are to receive the Constitution as the text, and then to lay down in its
margin the contradictory commentaries which have been, and which may be, made by different
States, the whole page would be a polyglot indeed. It would speak with as many tongues as the
builders of Babel, and in dialects as much confused, and mutually as unintelligible. The very
instance now before us presents a practical illustration. The law of the last session is declared
unconstitutional in South Carolina, and in obedience to it is refused. In other States, it
is admitted to be strictly constitutional. You walk over the limit of its authority, therefore,
when you pass a State line. On one side it is law, on the other side a nullity; and yet it
is passed by a common government, having the same authority in all the States.

Such, Sir, are the inevitable results of this doctrine. Beginning with the original error,
that the Constitution of the United States is nothing but a compact between sovereign States;
asserting, in the next step, that each State has a right to be its own sole judge of the extent
of its own obligations, and consequently of the constitutionality of laws of Congress; and,
in the next, that it may oppose whatever it sees fit to declare unconstitutional, and that
it decides for itself on the mode and measure of redress,--the argument arrives at once at
the conclusion, that what a State dissents from, it may nullify; what it opposes, it may oppose
by force; what it decides for itself, it may execute by its own power; and that, in short,
it is itself supreme over the legislation of Congress, and supreme over the decisions of the
national judicature; supreme over the constitution of the country, supreme over the supreme
law of the land. However it seeks to protect itself against these plain inferences, by saying
that an unconstitutional law is no law, and that it only opposes such laws as are unconstitutional,
yet this does not in the slightest degree vary the result; since it insists on deciding this
question for itself; and, in opposition to reason and argument, in opposition to practice and
experience, in opposition to the judgment of others, having an equal right to judge, it says,
only, "Such is my opinion, and my opinion shall be my law, and I will support it by my own
strong hand. I denounce the law; I declare it unconstitutional; that is enough; it shall not
be executed. Men in arms are ready to resist its execution. An attempt to enforce it shall
cover the land with blood. Elsewhere it may be binding; but here it is trampled under foot."
This, Sir, is practical nullification.

And now, Sir, against all these theories and opinions, I maintain,--

1. That the Constitution of the United States is not a league, confederacy, or compact between
the people of the several States in their sovereign capacities; but a government proper, founded
on the adoption of the people, and creating direct relations between itself and individuals.

2. That no State authority has power to dissolve these relations; that nothing can dissolve
them but revolution; and that, consequently, there can be no such thing as secession without
revolution.

3. That there is a supreme law, consisting of the Constitution of the United States, and acts
of Congress passed in pursuance of it, and treaties; and that, in cases not capable of assuming
the character of a suit in law or equity, Congress must judge of, and finally interpret, this
supreme law so often as it has occasion to pass acts of legislation; and in cases capable of
assuming, and actually assuming, the character of a suit, the Supreme Court of the United States
is the final interpreter.

4. That an attempt by a State to abrogate, annul, or nullify an act of Congress, or to arrest
its operation within her limits, on the ground that, in her opinion, such law is unconstitutional,
is a direct usurpation on the just powers of the general government, and on the equal rights
of other States; a plain violation of the Constitution, and a proceeding essentially revolutionary
in its character and tendency.

Whether the Constitution be a compact between States in their sovereign capacities, is a question
which must be mainly argued from what is contained in the instrument itself. We all agree that
it is an instrument which has been in some way clothed with power. We all admit that it speaks
with authority. The first question then is, What does it say of itself? What does it purport
to be? Does it style itself a league, confederacy, or compact between sovereign States? It
is to be remembered, Sir, that the Constitution began to speak only after its adoption. Until
it was ratified by nine States, it was but a proposal, the mere draught of an instrument. It
was like a deed drawn, but not executed. The Convention had framed it; sent it to Congress,
then sitting under the Confederation; Congress had transmitted it to the State legislatures;
and by these last it was laid before conventions of the people in the several States. All this
while it was inoperative paper. It had received no stamp of authority, no sanction; it spoke
no language. But when ratified by the people in their respective conventions, then it had a
voice, and spoke authentically. Every word in it had then received the sanction of the popular
will, and was to be received as the expression of that will. What the Constitution says of
itself, therefore, is as conclusive as what it says on any other point. Does it call itself
a "compact"? Certainly not. It uses the word compact but once, and that is when it declares
that the States shall enter into no compact. Does it call itself a "league," a "confederacy,"
a "subsisting treaty between the States"? Certainly not. There is not a particle of such language
in all its pages. But it declares itself a CONSTITUTION. What is a constitution? Certainly
not a league, compact, or confederacy, but a fundamental law. That fundamental regulation which
determines the manner in which the public authority is to be executed, is what forms the constitution
of a state. Those primary rules which concern the body itself, and the very being of the political
society, the form of government, and the manner in which power is to be exercised,--all, in
a word, which form together the constitution of a state,--these are the fundamental laws. This,
Sir, is the language of the public writers. But do we need to be informed, in this country,
what a constitution is? Is it not an idea perfectly familiar, definite, and settled? We are
at no loss to understand what is meant by the constitution of one of the States; and the Constitution
of the United States speaks of itself as being an instrument of the same nature. It says this
Constitution shall be the law of the land, anything in any State constitution to the contrary
notwithstanding. And it speaks of itself, too, in plain contradistinction from a confederation;
for it says that all debts contracted, and all engagements entered into, by the United States,
shall be as valid under this Constitution as under the Confederation. It does not say, as valid
under this compact, or this league, or this confederation, as under the former confederation,
but as valid under this Constitution.

This, then, Sir, is declared to be a constitution. A constitution is the fundamental law of
the state; and this is expressly declared to be the supreme law. It is as if the people had
said, "We prescribe this fundamental law," or "this supreme law," for they do say that they
establish this Constitution, and that it shall be the supreme law. They say that they ordain
and establish it. Now, Sir, what is the common application of these words? We do not speak
of ordaining leagues and compacts. If this was intended to be a compact or league, and the
States to be parties to it, why was it not so said? Why is there found no one expression in
the whole instrument indicating such intent? The old Confederation was expressly called a league,
and into this league it was declared that the States, as States, severally entered. Why was
not similar language used in the Constitution, if a similar intention had existed? Why was
it not said, "the States enter into this new league," "the States form this new confederation,"
or "the States agree to this new compact"? Or why was it not said, in the language of the gentleman's
resolution, that the people of the several States acceded to this compact in their sovereign
capacities? What reason is there for supposing that the framers of the Constitution rejected
expressions appropriate to their own meaning, and adopted others wholly at war with that meaning?

Again, Sir, the Constitution speaks of that political system which is established as "the government
of the United States." Is it not doing strange violence to language to call a league or a compact
between sovereign powers a government? The government of a state is that organization in which
the political power resides. It is the political being created by the constitution or fundamental
law. The broad and clear difference between a government and a league or compact is, that a
government is a body politic; it has a will of its own; and it possesses powers and faculties
to execute its own purposes. Every compact looks to some power to enforce its stipulations.
Even in a compact between sovereign communities, there always exists this ultimate reference
to a power to insure its execution; although, in such case, this power is but the force of
one party against the force of another; that is to say, the power of war. But a government
executes its decisions by its own supreme authority. Its use of force in compelling obedience
to its own enactments is not war. It contemplates no opposing party having a right of resistance.
It rests on its own power to enforce its own will; and when it ceases to possess this power,
it is no longer a government.

Mr. President, I concur so generally to the very able speech of the gentleman from Virginia
near me [1], that it is not without diffidence and regret that I venture to differ with him
on any point. His opinions, Sir, are redolent of the doctrines of a very distinguished school,
for which I have the highest regard, of whose doctrines I can say, what I can also say of the
gentleman's speech, that, while I concur in the results, I must be permitted to hesitate about
some of the premises. I do not agree that the Constitution is a compact between States in their
sovereign capacities. I do not agree, that, in strictness of language, it is a compact at all.
But I do agree that it is founded on consent or agreement, or on compact, if the gentleman
prefers that word, and means no more by it than voluntary consent or agreement. The Constitution,
Sir, is not a contract, but the result of a contract; meaning by contract no more than assent.
Founded on consent, it is a government proper. Adopted by the agreement of the people of the
United States, when adopted, it has become a Constitution. The people have agreed to make a
Constitution; but when made, that Constitution becomes what its name imports. It is no longer
a mere agreement. Our laws, Sir, have their foundation in the agreement or consent of the two
houses of Congress. We say, habitually, that one house proposes a bill, and the other agrees
to it; but the result of this agreement is not a compact, but a law. The law, the statute,
is not the agreement, but something created by the agreement; and something which, when created,
has a new character, and acts by its own authority. So the Constitution of the United States,
founded in or on the consent of the people, may be said to rest on compact or consent; but
it is not itself the compact, but its result. When the people agree to erect a government,
and actually erect it, the thing is done, and the agreement is at an end. The compact is executed,
and the end designed by it attained. Henceforth, the fruit of the agreement exists, but the
agreement itself is merged in its own accomplishment; since there can be no longer a subsisting
agreement or compact to form a constitution or government, after that constitution or government
has been actually formed and established.

It appears to me, Mr. President, that the plainest account of the establishment of this government
presents the most just and philosophical view of its foundation. The people of the several
States had their separate State governments; and between the States there also existed a Confederation.
With this condition of things the people were not satisfied, as the Confederation had been
found not to fulfil its intended objects. It was proposed, therefore, to erect a new, common
government, which should possess certain definite powers, such as regarded the prosperity of
the people of all the States, and to be formed upon the general model of American constitutions.
This proposal was assented to, and an instrument was presented to the people of the several
States for their consideration. They approved it, and agreed to adopt it, as a Constitution.
They executed that agreement; they adopted the Constitution as a Constitution, and henceforth
it must stand as a Constitution until it shall be altogether destroyed. Now, Sir, is not this
the truth of the whole matter? And is not all that we have heard of compact between sovereign
States the mere effect of a theoretical and artificial mode of reasoning upon the subject?
a mode of reasoning which disregards plain facts for the sake of hypothesis?

Mr. President, the nature of sovereignty or sovereign power has been extensively discussed
by gentlemen on this occasion, as it generally is when the origin of our government is debated.
But I confess myself not entirely satisfied with arguments and illustrations drawn from that
topic. The sovereignty of government is an idea belonging to the other side of the Atlantic.
No such thing is known in North America. Our governments are all limited. In Europe, sovereignty
is of feudal origin, and imports no more than the state of the sovereign. It comprises his
rights, duties, exemptions, prerogatives, and powers. But with us, all power is with the people.
They alone are sovereign; and they erect what governments they please, and confer on them such
powers as they please. None of these governments is sovereign, in the European sense of the
word, all being restrained by written constitutions. It seems to me, therefore, that we only
perplex ourselves when we attempt to explain the relations existing between the general government
and the several State governments according to those ideas of sovereignty which prevail under
systems essentially different from our own.

But, Sir, to return to the Constitution itself; let me inquire what it relies upon for its
own continuance and support. I hear it often suggested, that the States, by refusing to appoint
Senators and Electors, might bring this government to an end. Perhaps that is true; but the
same may be said of the State governments themselves. Suppose the legislature of a State, having
the power to appoint the governor and the judges, should omit that duty, would not the State
government remain unorganized? No doubt, all elective governments may be broken up by a general
abandonment on the part of those intrusted with political powers of their appropriate duties.
But one popular government has, in this respect, as much security as another. The maintenance
of this Constitution does not depend on the plighted faith of the States, as States, to support
it; and this again shows that it is not a league. It relies on individual duty and obligation.

The Constitution of the United States creates direct relations between this government and
individuals. This government may punish individuals for treason, and all other crimes in the
code, when committed against the United States. It has power also to tax individuals, in any
mode and to any extent; and it possesses the further power of demanding from individuals military
service. Nothing, certainly, can more clearly distinguish a government from a confederation
of states than the possession of these powers. No closer relations can exist between individuals
and any government.

On the other hand, the government owes high and solemn duties to every citizen of the country.
It is bound to protect him in his most important rights and interests. It makes war for his
protection, and no other government in the country can make war. It makes peace for his protection,
and no other government can make peace. It maintains armies and navies for his defence and
security, and no other government is allowed to maintain them. He goes abroad beneath its flag,
and carries over all the earth a national character imparted to him by this government, and
which no other government can impart. In whatever relates to war, to peace, to commerce, he
knows no other government. All these, Sir, are connections as dear and as sacred as can bind
individuals to any government on earth. It is not, therefore, a compact between States, but
a government proper, operating directly upon individuals, yielding to them protection on the
one hand, and demanding from them obedience on the other.

There is no language in the whole Constitution applicable to a confederation of States. If
the States be parties, as States, what are their rights, and what their respective covenants
and stipulations? And where are their rights, covenants, and stipulations expressed? The States
engage for nothing, they promise nothing. In the Articles of Confederation, they did make promises,
and did enter into engagements, and did plight the faith of each State for their fulfilment;
but In the Constitution there is nothing of that kind. The reason is, that, in the Constitution,
it is the people who speak, and not the States. The people ordain the Constitution, and therein
address themselves to the States, and to the legislatures of the States, in the language of
injunction and prohibition. The Constitution utters its behests in the name and by authority
of the people, and it does not exact from States any plighted public faith to maintain it.
On the contrary, it makes its own preservation depend on individual duty and individual obligation.
Sir, the States cannot omit to appoint Senators and Electors. It is not a matter resting in
State discretion or State pleasure. The Constitution has taken better care of its own preservation.
It lays its hand on individual conscience and individual duty. It incapacitates any man to
sit in the legislature of a State who shall not first have taken his solemn oath to support
the Constitution of the United States. From the obligation of this oath no State power can
discharge him. All the members of all the State legislatures are as religiously bound to support
the Constitution of the United States as they are to support their own State constitution.
Nay, Sir, they are as solemnly sworn to support it as we ourselves are, who are members of
Congress.

No member of a State legislature can refuse to proceed, at the proper time, to elect Senators
to Congress, or to provide for the choice of Electors of President and Vice-President, any
more than the members of this Senate can refuse, when the appointed day arrives, to meet the
members of the other house, to count the votes for those officers, and ascertain who are chosen.
In both cases, the duty binds, and with equal strength, the conscience of the individual member,
and it is imposed on all by an oath in the same words. Let it then never be said, Sir, that
it is a matter of discretion with the States whether they will continue the government, or
break it up by refusing to appoint Senators and to elect Electors. They have no discretion
in the matter. The members of their legislatures cannot avoid doing either, so often as the
time arrives, without a direct violation of their duty and their oaths; such a violation as
would break up any other government.

Looking still further to the provisions of the Constitution itself, in order to learn its true
character, we find its great apparent purpose to be, to unite the people of all the States
under one general government, for certain definite objects, and, to the extent of this union,
to restrain the separate authority of the States. Congress only can declare war; therefore,
when one State is at war with a foreign nation, all must be at war. The President and the Senate
only can make peace; when peace is made for one State, therefore, it must be made for all.

Can anything be conceived more preposterous, than that any State should have power to nullify
the proceedings of the general government respecting peace and war? When war is declared by
a law of Congress, can a single State nullify that law, and remain at peace? And yet she may
nullify that law as well as any other. If the President and Senate make peace, may one State,
nevertheless, continue the war? And yet, if she can nullify a law, she may quite as well nullify
a treaty.

The truth is, Mr. President, and no ingenuity of argument, no subtilty of distinction can evade
it, that, as to certain purposes, the people of the United States are one people. They are
one in making war, and one in making peace; they are one in regulating commerce, and one in
laying duties of imposts. The very end and purpose of the Constitution was, to make them one
people in these particulars; and it has effectually accomplished its object. All this is apparent
on the face of the Constitution itself. I have already said, Sir, that to obtain a power of
direct legislation over the people, especially in regard to imposts, was always prominent as
a reason for getting rid of the Confederation, and forming a new Constitution. Among innumerable
proofs of this, before the assembling of the Convention, allow me to refer only to the report
of the committee of the old Congress, July, 1785.

But, Sir, let us go to the actual formation of the Constitution; let us open the journal of
the Convention itself, and we shall see that the very first resolution which the Convention
adopted was, "That a national government ought to be established, consisting of a supreme legislature,
judiciary, and executive."

This itself completely negatives all idea of league, and compact, and confederation. Terms
could not be chosen more fit to express an intention to establish a national government, and
to banish for ever all notion of a compact between sovereign States.

This resolution was adopted on the 30th of May, 1787. Afterwards, the style was altered, and,
instead of being called a national government, it was called the government of the United States;
but the substance of this resolution was retained, and was at the head of that list of resolutions
which was afterwards sent to the committee who were to frame the instrument.

It is true, there were gentlemen in the Convention, who were for retaining the Confederation,
and amending its Articles; but the majority was against this, and was for a national government.
Mr. Patterson's propositions, which were for continuing the Articles of Confederation with
additional powers, were submitted to the Convention on the 15th of June, and referred to the
committee of the whole. The resolutions forming the basis of a national government, which had
once been agreed to in the committee of the whole, and reported, were recommitted to the same
committee, on the same day. The Convention, then, in committee of the whole, on the 19th of
June, had both these plans before them; that is to say, the plan of a confederacy, or compact,
between States, and the plan of a national government. Both these plans were considered and
debated, and the committee reported, "That they do not agree to the propositions offered by
the honorable Mr. Patterson, but that they again submit the resolutions formerly reported."
If, Sir, any historical fact in the world be plain and undeniable, it is that the Convention
deliberated on the expediency of continuing the Confederation, with some amendments, and rejected
that scheme, and adopted the plan of a national government, with a legislature, an executive,
and a judiciary of its own. They were asked to preserve the league; they rejected the proposition.
They were asked to continue the existing compact between States; they rejected it. They rejected
compact, league, and confederation, and set themselves about framing the constitution of a
national government; and they accomplished what they undertook.

If men will open their eyes fairly to the lights of history, it is impossible to be deceived
on this point. The great object was to supersede the Confederation by a regular government;
because, under the Confederation, Congress had power only to make requisitions on States; and
if States declined compliance, as they did, there was no remedy but war against such delinquent
States. It would seem, from Mr. Jefferson's correspondence, in 1786 and 1787, that he was of
opinion that even this remedy ought to be tried. "There will be no money in the treasury,"
said he, "till the confederacy shows its teeth"; and he suggests that a single frigate would
soon levy, on the commerce of a delinquent State, the deficiency of its contribution. But this
would be war; and it was evident that a confederacy could not long hold together, which should
be at war with its members. The Constitution was adopted to avoid this necessity. It was adopted
that there might be a government which should act directly on individuals, without borrowing
aid from the State governments. This is clear as light itself on the very face of the provisions
of the Constitution, and its whole history tends to the same conclusion. Its framers gave this
very reason for their work in the most distinct terms. Allow me to quote but one or two proofs,
out of hundreds. That State, so small in territory, but so distinguished for learning and talent,
Connecticut, had sent to the general Convention, among other members, Samuel Johnston and Oliver
Ellsworth. The Constitution having been framed, it was submitted to a convention of the people
of Connecticut for ratification on the part of that State; and Mr. Johnston and Mr. Ellsworth
were also members of this convention. On the first day of the debates, being called on to explain
the reasons which led the Convention at Philadelphia to recommend such a Constitution, after
showing the insufficiency of the existing confederacy, inasmuch as it applied to States, as
States, Mr. Johnston proceeded to say:--

"The Convention saw this imperfection in attempting to legislate for States in their political
capacity, that the coercion of law can be exercised by nothing but a military force. They have,
therefore, gone upon entirely new ground. They have formed one new nation out of the individual
States. The Constitution vests in the general legislature a power to make laws in matters of
national concern; to appoint judges to decide upon these laws; and to appoint officers to carry
them into execution. This excludes the idea of an armed force. The power which is to enforce
these laws is to be a legal power, vested in proper magistrates. The force which is to be employed
is the energy of law; and this force is to operate only upon individuals who fail in their
duty to their country. This is the peculiar glory of the Constitution, that it depends upon
the mild and equal energy of the magistracy for the execution of the laws."

In the further course of the debate, Mr. Ellsworth said:--

"In republics, it is a fundamental principle, that the majority govern, and that the minority
comply with the general voice. How contrary, then, to republican principles, how humiliating,
is our present situation! A single State can rise up, and put a veto upon the most important
public measures. We have seen this actually take place; a single State has controlled the general
voice of the Union; a minority, a very small minority, has governed us. So far is this from
being consistent with republican principles, that it is, in effect, the worst species of monarchy.

"Hence we see how necessary for the Union is a coercive principle. No man pretends the contrary.
We all see and feel this necessity. The only question is, Shall it be a coercion of law, or
a coercion of arms? There is no other possible alternative. Where will those who oppose a coercion
of law come out? Where will they end? A necessary consequence of their principles is a war
of the States one against another. I am for coercion by law; that coercion which acts only
upon delinquent individuals. This Constitution does not attempt to coerce sovereign bodies,
States, in their political capacity. No coercion is applicable to such bodies, but that of
an armed force. If we should attempt to execute the laws of the Union by sending an armed force
against a delinquent State, it would involve the good and bad, the innocent and guilty, in
the same calamity. But this legal coercion singles out the guilty individual, and punishes
him for breaking the laws of the Union."

Indeed, Sir, if we look to all contemporary history, to the numbers of the Federalist, to the
debates in the conventions, to the publications of friends and foes, they all agree, that a
change had been made from a confederacy of States to a different system; they all agree, that
the Convention had formed a Constitution for a national government. With this result some were
satisfied, and some were dissatisfied; but all admitted that the thing had been done. In none
of these various productions and publications did any one intimate that the new Constitution
was but another compact between States in their sovereign capacities. I do not find such an
opinion advanced in a single instance. Everywhere, the people were told that the old Confederation
was to be abandoned, and a new system to be tried; that a proper government was proposed, to
be founded in the name of the people, and to have a regular organization of its own. Everywhere,
the people were told that it was to be a government with direct powers to make laws over individuals,
and to lay taxes and imposts without the consent of the States. Everywhere, it was understood
to be a popular Constitution. It came to the people for their adoption, and was to rest on
the same deep foundation as the State constitutions themselves. Its most distinguished advocates,
who had been themselves members of the Convention, declared that the very object of submitting
the Constitution to the people was, to preclude the possibility of its being regarded as a
mere compact. "However gross a heresy," say the writers of the Federalist, "it may be to maintain
that a party to a compact has a right to revoke that compact, the doctrine itself has had respectable
advocates. The possibility of a question of this nature proves the necessity of laying the
foundations of our national government deeper than in the mere sanction of delegated authority.
The fabric of American empire ought to rest on the solid basis of THE CONSENT OF THE PEOPLE."

Such is the language, Sir, addressed to the people, while they yet had the Constitution under
consideration.  The powers conferred on the new government were perfectly well understood to
be conferred, not by any State, or the people of any State, but by the people of the United
States. Virginia is more explicit, perhaps, in this particular, than any other State. Her convention,
assembled to ratify the Constitution, "in the name and behalf of the people of Virginia, declare
and make known, that the powers granted under the Constitution, being derived from the people
of the United States, may be resumed by them whenever the same shall be perverted to their
injury or oppression."

Is this language which describes the formation of a compact between States? or language describing
the grant of powers to a new government, by the whole people of the United States?

Among all the other ratifications, there is not one which speaks of the Constitution as a compact
between States. Those of Massachusetts and New Hampshire express the transaction, in my opinion,
with sufficient accuracy. They recognize the Divine goodness "in affording THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES an opportunity of entering into an explicit and solemn compact with each other
by assenting to and ratifying a new Constitution." You will observe, Sir, that it is the PEOPLE,
and not the States, who have entered into this compact; and it is the PEOPLE of all the United
States. These conventions, by this form of expression, meant merely to say, that the people
of the United States had, by the blessing of Providence, enjoyed the opportunity of establishing
a new Constitution, founded in the consent of the people. This consent of the people has been
called, by European writers, the social compact; and, in conformity to this common mode of
expression, these conventions speak of that assent, on which the new Constitution was to rest,
as an explicit and solemn compact, not which the States had entered into with each other, but
which the people of the United States had entered into.

Finally, Sir, how can any man get over the words of the Constitution itself?--"WE, THE PEOPLE
OF THE UNITED STATES, DO ORDAIN AND ESTABLISH THIS CONSTITUTION." These words must cease to
be a part of the Constitution, they must be obliterated from the parchment on which they are
written, before any human ingenuity or human argument can remove the popular basis on which
that Constitution rests, and turn the instrument into a mere compact between sovereign States.

The second proposition, Sir, which I propose to maintain, is, that no State authority can dissolve
the relations subsisting between the government of the United States and individuals; that
nothing can dissolve these relations but revolution; and that, therefore, there can be no such
thing as secession without revolution. All this follows, as it seems to me, as a just consequence,
if it be first proved that the Constitution of the United States is a government proper, owing
protection to individuals, and entitled to their obedience.

The people, Sir, in every State, live under two governments. They owe obedience to both. These
governments, though distinct, are not adverse. Each has its separate sphere, and its peculiar
powers and duties. It is not a contest between two sovereigns for the same power, like the
wars of the rival houses of England; nor is it a dispute between a government de facto and
a government de jure. It is the case of a division of powers between two governments, made
by the people, to whom both are responsible. Neither can dispense with the duty which individuals
owe to the other; neither can call itself master of the other; the people are masters of both.
This division of power, it is true, is in a great measure unknown in Europe. It is the peculiar
system of America; and, though new and singular, it is not incomprehensible. The State constitutions
are established by the people of the States. This Constitution is established by the people
of all the States. How, then, can a State secede? How can a State undo what the whole people
have done? How can she absolve her citizens from their obedience to the laws of the United
States? How can she annul their obligations and oaths? How can the members of her legislature
renounce their own oaths? Sir, secession, as a revolutionary right, is intelligible; as a right
to be proclaimed in the midst of civil commotions, and asserted at the head of armies, I can
understand it. But as a practical right, existing under the Constitution, and in conformity
with its provisions, it seems to me to be nothing but a plain absurdity; for it supposes resistance
to government, under the authority of government itself; it supposes dismemberment, without
violating the principles of union; it supposes opposition to law, without crime; it supposes
the violation of oaths, without responsibility; it supposes the total overthrow of government,
without revolution. The Constitution, Sir, regards itself as perpetual and immortal. It seeks
to establish a union among the people of the States, which shall last through all time. Or,
if the common fate of things human must be expected at some period to happen to it, yet that
catastrophe is not anticipated.

The instrument contains ample provisions for its amendment, at all times; none for its abandonment
at any time. It declares that new States may come into the Union, but it does not declare that
old States may go out. The Union is not a temporary partnership of States. It is the association
of the people, under a constitution of government, uniting their power, joining together their
highest interests, cementing their present enjoyments, and blending, in one indivisible mass,
all their hopes for the future. Whatsoever is steadfast in just political principles; whatsoever
is permanent in the structure of human society; whatsoever there is which can derive an enduring
character from being founded on deep-laid principles of constitutional liberty and on the broad
foundations of the public will,--all these unite to entitle this instrument to be regarded
as a permanent constitution of government.

In the next place, Mr. President, I contend that there is a supreme law of the land, consisting
of the Constitution, acts of Congress passed in pursuance of it, and the public treaties. This
will not be denied, because such are the very words of the Constitution. But I contend, further,
that it rightfully belongs to Congress, and to the courts of the United States, to settle the
construction of this supreme law, in doubtful cases. This is denied; and here arises the great
practical question, Who is to construe finally the Constitution of the United States? We all
agree that the Constitution is the supreme law; but who shall interpret that law? In our system
of the division of powers between different governments, controversies will necessarily sometimes
arise, respecting the extent of the powers of each. Who shall decide these controversies? Does
it rest with the general government, in all or any of its departments, to exercise the office
of final interpreter? Or may each of the States, as well as the general government, claim this
right of ultimate decision? The practical result of this whole debate turns on this point.
The gentleman contends that each State may judge for itself of any alleged violation of the
Constitution, and may finally decide for itself, and may execute its own decisions by its own
power. All the recent proceedings in South Carolina are founded on this claim of right. Her
convention has pronounced the revenue laws of the United States unconstitutional; and this
decision she does not allow any authority of the United States to overrule or reverse. Of course
she rejects the authority of Congress, because the very object of the ordinance is to reverse
the decision of Congress; and she rejects, too, the authority of the courts of the United States,
because she expressly prohibits all appeal to those courts. It is in order to sustain this
asserted right of being her own judge, that she pronounces the Constitution of the United States
to be but a compact, to which she is a party, and a sovereign party. If this be established,
then the inference is supposed to follow, that, being sovereign, there is no power to control
her decision; and her own judgment on her own compact is, and must be, conclusive.

I have already endeavored, Sir, to point out the practical consequences of this doctrine, and
to show how utterly inconsistent it is with all ideas of regular government, and how soon its
adoption would involve the whole country in revolution and absolute anarchy. I hope it is easy
now to show, Sir, that a doctrine bringing such consequences with it is not well founded; that
it has nothing to stand on but theory and assumption; and that it is refuted by plain and express
constitutional provisions. I think the government of the United States does possess, in its
appropriate departments, the authority of final decision on questions of disputed power. I
think it possesses this authority, both by necessary implication and by express grant.

It will not be denied, Sir, that this authority naturally belongs to all governments. They
all exercise it from necessity, and as a consequence of the exercise of other powers. The State
governments themselves possess it, except in that class of questions which may arise between
them and the general government, and in regard to which they have surrendered it, as well by
the nature of the case as by clear constitutional provisions. In other and ordinary cases,
whether a particular law be in conformity to the constitution of the State is a question which
the State legislature or the State judiciary must determine. We all know that these questions
arise daily in the State governments, and are decided by those governments; and I know no government
which does not exercise a similar power.

Upon general principles, then, the government of the United States possesses this authority;
and this would hardly be denied were it not that there are other governments. But since there
are State governments, and since these, like other governments, ordinarily construe their own
powers, if the government of the United States construes its own powers also, which construction
is to prevail in the case of opposite constructions? And again, as in the case now actually
before us, the State governments may undertake, not only to construe their own powers, but
to decide directly on the extent of the powers of Congress. Congress has passed a law as being
within its just powers; South Carolina denies that this law is within its just powers, and
insists that she has the right so to decide this point, and that her decision is final. How
are these questions to be settled?

In my opinion, Sir, even if the Constitution of the United States had made no express provision
for such cases, it would yet be difficult to maintain, that, in a Constitution existing over
four-and-twenty States, with equal authority over all, one could claim a right of construing
it for the whole. This would seem a manifest impropriety; indeed, an absurdity. If the Constitution
is a government existing over all the States, though with limited powers, it necessarily follows,
that, to the extent of those powers, it must be supreme. If it be not superior to the authority
of a particular State, it is not a national government. But as it is a government, as it has
a legislative power of its own, and a judicial power coextensive with the legislative, the
inference is irresistible that this government, thus created by the whole and for the whole,
must have an authority superior to that of the particular government of any one part. Congress
is the legislature of all the people of the United States; the judiciary of the general government
is the judiciary of all the people of the United States. To hold, therefore, that this legislature
and this judiciary are subordinate in authority to the legislature and judiciary of a single
State, is doing violence to all common sense, and overturning all established principles. Congress
must judge of the extent of its own powers so often as it is called on to exercise them, or
it cannot act at all; and it must also act independent of State control, or it cannot act at all.

The right of State interposition strikes at the very foundation of the legislative power of
Congress. It possesses no effective legislative power, if such right of State interposition
exists; because it can pass no law not subject to abrogation. It cannot make laws for the Union,
if any part of the Union may pronounce its enactments void and of no effect. Its forms of legislation
would be an idle ceremony, if, after all, any one of four-and-twenty States might bid defiance
to its authority. Without express provision in the Constitution, therefore, Sir, this whole
question is necessarily decided by those provisions which create a legislative power and a
judicial power. If these exist in a government intended for the whole, the inevitable consequence
is, that the laws of this legislative power and the decisions of this judicial power must be
binding on and over the whole. No man can form the conception of a government existing over
four-and-twenty States, with a regular legislative and judicial power, and of the existence
at the same time of an authority, residing elsewhere, to resist, at pleasure or discretion,
the enactments and the decisions of such a government. I maintain, therefore, Sir, that, from
the nature of the case, and as an inference wholly unavoidable, the acts of Congress and the
decisions of the national courts must be of higher authority than State laws and State decisions.
If this be not so, there is, there can be, no general government.

But, Mr. President, the Constitution has not left this cardinal point without full and explicit
provisions. First, as to the authority of Congress. Having enumerated the specific powers conferred
on Congress, the Constitution adds, as a distinct and substantive clause, the following, viz.:
"To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof." If this means anything, it means that Congress may
judge of the true extent and just interpretation of the specific powers granted to it, and
may judge also of what is necessary and proper for executing those powers. If Congress is to
judge of what is necessary for the execution of its powers, it must, of necessity, judge of
the extent and interpretation of those powers.

And in regard, Sir, to the judiciary, the Constitution is still more express and emphatic.
It declares that the judicial power shall extend to all cases in law or equity arising under
the Constitution, laws of the United States, and treaties; that there shall be one Supreme
Court, and that this Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction of all these cases, subject
to such exceptions as Congress may make. It is impossible to escape from the generality of
these words. If a case arises under the Constitution, that is, if a case arises depending on
the construction of the Constitution, the judicial power of the United States extends to it.
It reaches the case, the question; it attaches the power of the national judicature to the
case itself, in whatever court it may arise or exist; and in this case the Supreme Court has
appellate jurisdiction over all courts whatever. No language could provide with more effect
and precision than is here done, for subjecting constitutional questions to the ultimate decision
of the Supreme Court. And, Sir, this is exactly what the Convention found it necessary to provide
for, and intended to provide for. It is, too, exactly what the people were universally told
was done when they adopted the Constitution. One of the first resolutions adopted by the Convention
was in these words, viz.: "That the jurisdiction of the national judiciary shall extend to
cases which respect the collection of the national revenue, and questions which involve the
national peace and harmony." Now, Sir, this either had no sensible meaning at all, or else
it meant that the jurisdiction of the national judiciary should extend to these questions,
with a paramount authority. It is not to be supposed that the Convention intended that the
power of the national judiciary should extend to these questions, and that the power of the
judicatures of the States should also extend to them, with equal power of final decision. This
would be to defeat the whole object of the provision. There were thirteen judicatures already
in existence. The evil complained of, or the danger to be guarded against, was contradiction
and repugnance in the decisions of these judicatures. If the framers of the Constitution meant
to create a fourteenth, and yet not to give it power to revise and control the decisions of
the existing thirteen, then they only intended to augment the existing evil and the apprehended
danger by increasing still further the chances of discordant judgments. Why, Sir, has it become
a settled axiom in politics that every government must have a judicial power coextensive with
its legislative power? Certainly, there is only this reason, namely, that the laws may receive
a uniform interpretation and a uniform execution. This object cannot be otherwise attained.
A statute is what it is judicially interpreted to be; and if it be construed one way in New
Hampshire, and another way in Georgia, there is no uniform law. One supreme court, with appellate
and final jurisdiction, is the natural and only adequate means, in any government, to secure
this uniformity. The Convention saw all this clearly; and the resolution which I have quoted,
never afterwards rescinded, passed through various modifications, till it finally received
the form which the article now bears in the Constitution.

It is undeniably true, then, that the framers of the Constitution intended to create a national
judicial power, which should be paramount on national subjects. And after the Constitution
was framed, and while the whole country was engaged in discussing its merits, one of its most
distinguished advocates, Mr. Madison, told the people that it was true, that, in controversies
relating to the boundary between the two jurisdictions, the tribunal which is ultimately to
decide is to be established under the general government. Mr. Martin, who had been a member
of the Convention, asserted the same thing to be the legislature of Maryland, and urged it
as a reason for rejecting the Constitution. Mr. Pinckney, himself also a leading member of
the Convention, declared it to the people of South Carolina. Everywhere it was admitted, by
friends and foes, that this power was in the Constitution. By some it was thought dangerous,
by most it was thought necessary; but by all it was agreed to be a power actually contained
in the instrument. The Convention saw the absolute necessity of some control in the national
government over State laws. Different modes of establishing this control were suggested and
considered. At one time, it was proposed that the laws of the States should, from time to time,
be laid before Congress, and that Congress should possess a negative over them. But this was
thought inexpedient and inadmissible; and in its place, and expressly as a substitute for it,
the existing provision was introduced; that is to say, a provision by which the federal courts
should have authority to overrule such State laws as might be in manifest contravention of
the Constitution. The writers of the Federalist, in explaining the Constitution, while it was
yet pending before the people, and still unadopted, give this account of the matter in terms,
and assign this reason for the article as it now stands. By this provision Congress escaped
the necessity of any revision of State laws, left the whole sphere of State legislation quite
untouched, and yet obtained a security against any infringement of the constitutional power
of the general government. Indeed, Sir, allow me to ask again, if the national judiciary was
not to exercise a power of revision on constitutional questions over the judicatures of the
States, why was any national judicature erected at all? Can any man give a sensible reason
for having a judicial power in this government, unless it be for the sake of maintaining a
uniformity of decision on questions arising under the Constitution and laws of Congress, and
insuring its execution? And does not this very idea of uniformity necessarily imply that the
construction given by the national courts is to be the prevailing construction? How else, Sir,
is it possible that uniformity can be preserved?

Gentlemen appear to me, Sir, to look at but one side of the question. They regard only the
supposed danger of trusting a government with the interpretation of its own powers. But will
they view the question in its other aspect? Will they show us how it is possible for a government
to get along with four-and-twenty interpreters of its laws and powers? Gentlemen argue, too,
as if, in these cases, the State would be always right, and the general government always wrong.
But suppose the reverse,--suppose the State wrong (and, since they differ, some of them must
be wrong),--are the most important and essential operations of the government to be embarrassed
and arrested, because one State holds the contrary opinion? Mr. President, every argument which
refers the constitutionality of acts of Congress to State decision appeals from the majority
to the minority; it appeals from the common interest to a particular interest; from the counsels
of all to the counsel of one; and endeavors to supersede the judgment of the whole by the judgment
of a part.

I think it is clear, Sir, that the Constitution, by express provision, by definite and unequivocal
words, as well as by necessary implication, has constituted the Supreme Court of the United
States the appellate tribunal in all cases of a constitutional nature which assume the shape
of a suit, in law or equity. And I think I cannot do better than to leave this part of the
subject by reading the remarks made upon it in the convention of Connecticut, by Mr. Ellsworth;
a gentleman, Sir, who has left behind him, on the records of the government of his country,
proofs of the clearest intelligence and the deepest sagacity, as well as of the utmost purity
and integrity of character. "This Constitution," says he, "defines the extent of the powers
of the general government. If the general legislature should, at any time, overleap their limits,
the judicial department is a constitutional check. If the United States go beyond their powers,
if they make a law which the Constitution does not authorize, it is void; and the judiciary
power, the national judges, who, to secure their impartiality, are to be made independent,
will declare it to be void. On the other hand, if the States go beyond their limits, if they
make a law which is a usurpation upon the general government, the law is void; and upright,
independent judges will declare it to be so." Nor did this remain merely matter of private
opinion. In the very first session of the first Congress, with all these well-known objects,
both of the Convention and the people, full and fresh in his mind, Mr. Ellsworth, as is generally
understood, reported the bill for the organization of the judicial department, and in that
bill made provision for the exercise of this appellate power of the Supreme Court, in all the
proper cases, in whatsoever court arising; and this appellate power has now been exercised
for more than forty years, without interruption, and without doubt.

As to the cases, Sir, which do not come before the courts, those political questions which
terminate with the enactments of Congress, it is of necessity that these should be ultimately
decided by Congress itself. Like other legislatures, it must be trusted with this power. The
members of Congress are chosen by the people, and they are answerable to the people; like other
public agents, they are bound by oath to support the Constitution. These are the securities
that they will not violate their duty, nor transcend their powers. They are the same securities
that prevail in other popular governments; nor is it easy to see how grants of power can be
more safely guarded, without rendering them nugatory. If the case cannot come before the courts,
and if Congress be not trusted with its decision, who shall decide it? The gentleman says,
each State is to decide it for herself. If so, then, as I have already urged, what is law in
one State is not law in another. Or, if the resistance of one State compels an entire repeal
of the law, then a minority, and that a small one, governs the whole country.

Sir, those who espouse the doctrines of nullification reject, as it seems to me, the first
great principle of all republican liberty; that is, that the majority must govern. In matters
of common concern, the judgment of a majority must stand as the judgment of the whole. This
is a law imposed on us by the absolute necessity of the case; and if we do not act upon it,
there is no possibility of maintaining any government but despotism. We hear loud and repeated
denunciations against what is called majority government. It is declared, with much warmth,
that a majority government cannot be maintained in the United States. What, then, do gentlemen
wish? Do they wish to establish a minority government? Do they wish to subject the will of
the many to the will of the few? The honorable gentleman from South Carolina has spoken of
absolute majorities and majorities concurrent; language wholly unknown to our Constitution,
and to which it is not easy to affix definite ideas. As far as I understand it, it would teach
us that the absolute majority may be found in Congress, but the majority concurrent must be
looked for in the States; that is to say, Sir, stripping the matter of this novelty of phrase,
that the dissent of one or more States, as States, renders void the decision of a majority
of Congress, so far as that State is concerned. And so this doctrine, running but a short career,
like other dogmas of the day, terminates in nullification.

If this vehement invective against majorities meant no more than that, in the construction
of government, it is wise to provide checks and balances, so that there should be various limitations
on the power of the mere majority, it would only mean what the Constitution of the United States
has already abundantly provided. It is full of such checks and balances. In its very organization,
it adopts a broad and most effective principle in restraint of the power of mere majorities.
A majority of the people elects the House of Representatives, but it does not elect the Senate.
The Senate is elected by the States, each State having, in this respect, an equal power. No
law, therefore, can pass, without the assent of the representatives of the people, and a majority
of the representatives of the States also. A majority of the representatives of the people
must concur, and a majority of the States must concur, in every act of Congress; and the President
is elected on a plan compounded of both these principles. But having composed one house of
representatives chosen by the people in each State, according to their numbers, and the other
of an equal number of members from every State, whether larger or smaller, the Constitution
gives to majorities in these houses thus constituted the full and entire power of passing laws,
subject always to the constitutional restrictions and to the approval of the President. To
subject them to any other power is clear usurpation. The majority of one house may be controlled
by the majority of the other; and both may be restrained by the President's negative. These
are checks and balances provided by the Constitution, existing in the government itself, and
wisely intended to secure deliberation and caution in legislative proceedings. But to resist
the will of the majority in both houses, thus constitutionally exercised; to insist on the
lawfulness of interposition by an extraneous power; to claim the right of defeating the will
of Congress, by setting up against it the will of a single State,--is neither more nor less,
as it strikes me, than a plain attempt to overthrow the government. The constituted authorities
of the United States are no longer a government, if they be not masters of their own will;
they are no longer a government, if an external power may arrest their proceedings; they are
no longer a government, if acts passed by both houses, and approved by the President, may be
nullified by State vetoes or State ordinances. Does any one suppose it could make any difference,
as to the binding authority of an act of Congress, and of the duty of a State to respect it,
whether it passed by a mere majority of both houses, or by three fourths of each, or the unanimous
vote of each? Within the limits and restrictions of the Constitution, the government of the
United States, like all other popular governments, acts by majorities. It can act no otherwise.
Whoever, therefore, denounces the government of majorities, denounces the government of his
own country, and denounces all free governments. And whoever would restrain these majorities,
while acting within their constitutional limits, by an external power, whatever he may intend,
asserts principles which, if adopted, can lead to nothing else than the destruction of the
government itself.

Does not the gentleman perceive, Sir, how his argument against majorities might here be retorted
upon him? Does he not see how cogently he might be asked, whether it be the character of nullification
to practise what it preaches? Look to South Carolina, at the present moment. How far are the
rights of minorities there respected? I confess, sir, I have not known, in peaceable times,
the power of the majority carried with a higher hand, or upheld with more relentless disregard
of the rights, feelings, and principles of the minority;--a minority embracing, as the gentleman
himself will admit, a large portion of the worth and respectability of the state;--a minority
comprehending in its numbers men who have been associated with him, and with us, in these halls
of legislation; men who have served their country at home and honored it abroad; men who would
cheerfully lay down their lives for their native state, in any cause which they could regard
as the cause of honor and duty; men above fear, and above reproach, whose deepest grief and
distress spring from the conviction, that the present proceedings of the state must ultimately
reflect discredit upon her. How is this minority, how are these men, regarded? They are enthralled
and disfranchised by ordinances and acts of legislation; subjected to tests and oaths incompatible,
as they conscientiously think, with oaths already taken, and obligations already assumed; they
are proscribed and denounced as recreants to duty and patriotism, and slaves to a foreign power.
Both the spirit which pursues them, and the positive measures which emanate from that spirit,
are harsh and proscriptive beyond all precedent within my knowledge, except in periods of professed
revolution.

It is not, sir, one would think, for those who approve these proceedings to complain of the
power of majorities.

Mr. President, all popular governments rest on two principles, or two assumptions:--

First, That there is so far a common interest among those over whom the government extends,
as that it may provide for the defence, protection, and good government of the whole, without
injustice or oppression to parts; and

Secondly, That the representatives of the people, and especially the people themselves, are
secure against general corruption, and may be trusted, therefore, with the exercise of power.

Whoever argues against these principles argues against the practicability of all free governments.
And whoever admits these, must admit, or cannot deny, that power is as safe in the hands of
Congress as in those of other representative bodies. Congress is not irresponsible. Its members
are agents of the people, elected by them, answerable to them, and liable to be displaced or
superseded, at their pleasure; and they possess as fair a claim to the confidence of the people,
while they continue to deserve it, as any other public political agents.

If, then, Sir, the manifest intention of the Convention, and the contemporary admission of
both friends and foes, prove anything; if the plain text of the instrument itself, as well
as the necessary implication from other provisions, prove anything; if the early legislation
of Congress, the course of judicial decisions, acquiesced in by all the States for forty years,
prove any thing,--then it is proved that there is a supreme law, and a final interpreter.

My fourth and last proposition, Mr. President, was, that any attempt by a State to abrogate
or nullify acts of Congress is a usurpation on the powers of the general government and on
the equal rights of other States, a violation of the Constitution, and a proceeding essentially
revolutionary. This is undoubtedly true, if the preceding propositions be regarded as proved.
If the government of the United States be trusted with the duty, in any department, of declaring
the extent of its own powers, then a State ordinance, or act of legislation, authorizing resistance
to an act of Congress, on the alleged ground of its unconstitutionality, is manifestly a usurpation
upon its powers. If the States have equal rights in matters concerning the whole, then for
one State to set up her judgment against the judgment of the rest, and to insist on executing
that judgment by force, is also a manifest usurpation on the rights of other States. If the
Constitution of the United States be a government proper, with authority to pass laws, and
to give them a uniform interpretation and execution, then the interposition of a State, to
enforce her own construction, and to resist, as to herself, that law which binds the other
States, is a violation of the Constitution.

If that be revolutionary which arrests the legislative, executive, and judicial power of government,
dispenses with existing oaths and obligations of obedience, and elevates another power to supreme
dominion, then nullification is revolutionary. Or if that be revolutionary the natural tendency
and practical effect of which are to break the Union into fragments, to sever all connection
among the people of the respective States, and to prostrate this general government in the
dust, then nullification is revolutionary.

Nullification, Sir, is as distinctly revolutionary as secession; but I cannot say that the
revolution which it seeks is one of so respectable a character. Secession would, it is true,
abandon the Constitution altogether; but then it would profess to abandon it. Whatever other
inconsistencies it might run into, one, at least, it would avoid. It would not belong to a
government, while it rejected its authority. It would not repel the burden, and continue to
enjoy the benefits. It would not aid in passing laws which others are to obey, and yet reject
their authority as to itself. It would not undertake to reconcile obedience to public authority
with an asserted right of command over that same authority. It would not be in the government,
and above the government, at the same time. But though secession may be a more respectable
mode of attaining the object than nullification, it is not more truly revolutionary. Each,
and both, resist the constitutional authorities; each, and both, would sever the Union and
subvert the government.

Mr. President, having detained the Senate so long already, I will not now examine at length
the ordinance and laws of South Carolina. These papers are well drawn for their purpose. Their
authors understood their own objects. They are called a peaceable remedy, and we have been
told that South Carolina, after all, intends nothing but a lawsuit. A very few words, Sir,
will show the nature of this peaceable remedy, and of the lawsuit which South Carolina contemplates.

In the first place, the ordinance declares the law of last July, and all other laws of the
United States laying duties, to be absolutely null and void, and makes it unlawful for the
constituted authorities of the United States to enforce the payment of such duties. It is therefore,
Sir, an indictable offence, at this moment, in South Carolina, for any person to be concerned
in collecting revenue under the laws of the United States. It being declared, by what is considered
a fundamental law of the State, unlawful to collect these duties, an indictment lies, of course,
against any one concerned in such collection; and he is, on general principles, liable to be
punished by fine and imprisonment. The terms, it is true, are, that it is unlawful "to enforce
the payment of duties"; but every custom-house officer enforces payment while he detains the
goods in order to obtain such payment. The ordinance, therefore, reaches everybody concerned
in the collection of the duties.

This is the first step in the prosecution of the peaceable remedy. The second is more decisive.
By the act commonly called replevin law, any person whose goods are seized or detained by the
collector for the payment of duties may sue out a writ of replevin, and, by virtue of that
writ, the goods are to be restored to him. A writ of replevin is a writ which the sheriff is
bound to execute, and for the execution of which he is bound to employ force, if necessary.
He may call out the posse, and must do so, if resistance be made. This posse may be armed or
unarmed. It may come forth with military array, and under the lead of military men. Whatever
number of troops may be assembled in Charleston, they may be summoned, with the governor, or
commander-in-chief, at their head, to come in aid of the sheriff. It is evident, then, Sir,
that the whole military power of the State is to be employed, if necessary, in dispossessing
the custom-house officers, and in seizing and holding the goods, without paying the duties.
This is the second step in the peaceable remedy.

Sir, whatever pretences may be set up to the contrary, this is the direct application of force,
and of military force. It is unlawful, in itself, to replevy goods in the custody of the collectors.
But this unlawful act is to be done, and it is to be done by force. Here is a plain interposition,
by physical force, to resist the laws of the Union. The legal mode of collecting duties is
to detain the goods till such duties are paid or secured. But force comes, and overpowers the
collector and his assistants, and takes away the goods, leaving the duties unpaid. There cannot
be a clearer case of forcible resistance to law. And it is provided that the goods thus seized
shall be held against any attempt to retake them, by the same force which seized them.

Having thus dispossessed the officers of the government of the goods, without payment of duties,
and seized and secured them by the strong arm of the State, only one thing more remains to
be done, and that is, to cut off all possibility of legal redress; and that, too, is accomplished,
or thought to be accomplished. The ordinance declares, that all judicial proceedings founded
on the revenue laws (including, of course, proceedings in the courts of the United States),
shall be null and void. This nullifies the judicial power of the United States. Then comes
the test-oath act. This requires all State judges and jurors in the State courts to swear that
they will execute the ordinance, and all acts of the legislature passed in pursuance thereof.
The ordinance declares, that no appeal shall be allowed from the decision of the State courts
to the Supreme Court of the United States; and the replevin act makes it an indictable offence
for any clerk to furnish a copy of the record, for the purpose of such appeal.

The two principal provisions on which South Carolina relies, to resist the laws of the United
States, and nullify the authority of this government, are, therefore, these:--

1. A forcible seizure of goods, before duties are paid or secured, by the power of the State,
civil and military.

2. The taking away, by the most effectual means in her power, of all legal redress in the courts
of the United States; the confining of judicial proceedings to her own State tribunals; and
the compelling of her judges and jurors of these her own courts to take an oath, beforehand,
that they will decide all cases according to the ordinance, and the acts passed under it; that
is, that they will decide the cause one way. They do not swear to try it, on its own merits;
they only swear to decide it as nullification requires.

The character, Sir, of these provisions defies comment. Their object is as plain as their means
are extraordinary. They propose direct resistance, by the whole power of the State, to laws
of Congress, and cut off, by methods deemed adequate, any redress by legal and judicial authority.
They arrest legislation, defy the executive, and banish the judicial power of this government.
They authorize and command acts to be done, and done by force, both of numbers and of arms,
which, if done, and done by force, are clearly acts of rebellion and treason.

Such, Sir, are the laws of South Carolina; such, Sir, is the peaceable remedy of nullification.
Has not nullification reached, Sir, even thus early, that point of direct and forcible resistance
to law to which I intimated, three years ago, it plainly tended?

And now, Mr. President, what is the reason for passing laws like these? What are the oppressions
experienced under the Union, calling for measures which thus threaten to sever and destroy
it? What invasions of public liberty, what ruin to private happiness, what long list of rights
violated, or wrongs unredressed, is to justify to the country, to posterity, and to the world,
this assault upon the free Constitution of the United States, this great and glorious work
of our fathers? At this very moment, Sir, the whole land smiles in peace, and rejoices in plenty.
A general and a high prosperity pervades the country; and, judging by the common standard,
by increase of population and wealth, or judging by the opinions of that portion of her people
not embarked in these dangerous and desperate measures, this prosperity overspreads South Carolina
herself.

Thus happy at home, our country, at the same time, holds high the character of her institutions,
her power, her rapid growth, and her future destiny, in the eyes of all foreign states. One
danger only creates hesitation; one doubt only exists, to darken the otherwise unclouded brightness
of that aspect which she exhibits to the view and to the admiration of the world. Need I say,
that that doubt respects the permanency of our Union? and need I say, that that doubt is now
caused, more than any thing else, by these very proceedings of South Carolina? Sir, all Europe
is, at this moment, beholding us, and looking for the issue of this controversy; those who
hate free institutions, with malignant hope; those who love them, with deep anxiety and shivering
fear.

The cause, then, Sir, the cause! Let the world know the cause which has thus induced one State
of the Union to bid defiance to the power of the whole, and openly to talk secession. Sir,
the world will scarcely believe that this whole controversy, and all the desperate measures
which its support requires, have no other foundation than a difference of opinion upon a provision
of the Constitution, between a majority of the people of South Carolina, on one side, and a
vast majority of the whole people of the United States, on the other. It will not credit the
fact, it will not admit the possibility, that, in an enlightened age, in a free, popular republic,
under a constitution where the people govern, as they must always govern under such systems,
by majorities, at a time of unprecedented prosperity, without practical oppression, without
evils such as may not only be pretended, but felt and experienced,--evils not slight or temporary,
but deep, permanent, and intolerable,--a single State should rush into conflict with all the
rest, attempt to put down the power of the Union by her own laws, and to support those laws
by her military power, and thus break up and destroy the world's last hope. And well the world
may be incredulous. We, who see and hear it, can ourselves hardly yet believe it. Even after
all that had preceded it this ordinance struck the country with amazement. It was incredible
and inconceivable that South Carolina should plunge headlong into resistance to the laws on
a matter of opinion and on a question in which the preponderance of opinion, both of the present
day and of all past time, was so overwhelmingly against her. The ordinance declares that Congress
has exceeded its just power by laying duties on imports, intended for the protection of manufactures.
This is the opinion of South Carolina; and on the strength of that opinion she nullifies the
laws. Yet has the rest of the country no right to its opinion also? Is one State to sit sole
arbitress? She maintains that those laws are plain, deliberate, and palpable violations of
the Constitution; that she has a sovereign right to decide this matter; and that, having so
decided, she is authorized to resist their execution by her own sovereign power; and she declares
that she will resist it, though such resistance should shatter the Union into atoms.

Mr. President, I do not intend to discuss the propriety of these laws at large; but I will
ask, How are they shown to be thus plainly and palpably unconstitutional? Have they no countenance
at all in the Constitution itself? Are they quite new in the history of the government? Are
they a sudden and violent usurpation on the rights of the States? Sir, what will the civilized
world say, what will posterity say, when they learn that similar laws have existed from the
very foundation of the government, that for thirty years the power was never questioned, and
that no State in the Union has more freely and unequivocally admitted it than South Carolina
herself?

To lay and collect duties and imposts is an express power granted by the Constitution to Congress.
It is, also, an exclusive power; for the Constitution as expressly prohibits all the States
from exercising it themselves. This express and exclusive power is unlimited in the terms of
the grant, but is attended with two specific restrictions: first, that all duties and imposts
shall be equal in all the States; second, that no duties shall be laid on exports. The power,
then, being granted, and being attended with these two restrictions, and no more, who is to
impose a third restriction on the general words of the grant? If the power to lay duties, as
known among all other nations, and as known in all our history, and as it was perfectly understood
when the Constitution was adopted, includes a right of discriminating while exercising the
power, and of laying some duties heavier and some lighter, for the sake of encouraging our
own domestic products, what authority is there for giving to the words used in the Constitution
a new, narrow, and unusual meaning? All the limitations which the Constitution intended, it
has expressed; and what it has left unrestricted is as much a part of its will as the restraints
which it has imposed.

But these laws, it is said, are unconstitutional on account of the motive. How, Sir, can a
law be examined on any such ground? How is the motive to be ascertained? One house, or one
member, may have one motive; the other house, or another member, another. One motive may operate
to-day, and another to-morrow. Upon any such mode of reasoning as this, one law might be unconstitutional
now, and another law, in exactly the same words, perfectly constitutional next year. Besides,
articles may not only be taxed for the purpose of protecting home products, but other articles
may be left free, for the same purpose and with the same motive. A law, therefore, would become
unconstitutional from what it omitted, as well as from what it contained. Mr. President, it
is a settled principle, acknowledged in all legislative halls, recognized before all tribunals,
sanctioned by the general sense and understanding of mankind, that there can be no inquiry
into the motives of those who pass laws, for the purpose of determining on their validity.
If the law be within the fair meaning of the words in the grant of the power, its authority
must be admitted until it is repealed. This rule, everywhere acknowledged, everywhere admitted,
is so universal and so completely without exception, that even an allegation of fraud, in the
majority of a legislature, is not allowed as a ground to set aside a law.

But, Sir, is it true that the motive for these laws is such as is stated? I think not. The
great object of all these laws is, unquestionably, revenue. If there were no occasion for revenue,
the laws would not have been passed; and it is notorious that almost the entire revenue of
the country is derived from them. And as yet we have collected none too much revenue. The treasury
has not been more reduced for many years than it is at the present moment. All that South Carolina
can say is, that, in passing the laws which she now undertakes to nullify, particular imparted
articles were taxed, from a regard to the protection of certain articles of domestic manufacture,
higher than they would have been had no such regard been entertained. And she insists, that,
according to the Constitution, no such discrimination can be allowed; that duties should be
laid for revenue, and revenue only; and that it is unlawful to have reference, in any case,
to protection. In other words, she denies the power of DISCRIMINATION. She does not, and cannot,
complain of excessive taxation; on the contrary, she professes to be willing to pay any amount
for revenue, merely as revenue; and up to the present moment there is no surplus of revenue.
Her grievance, then, that plain and palpable violation of the Constitution which she insists
has taken place, is simply the exercise of the power of DISCRIMINATION. Now, Sir, is the exercise
of this power of discrimination plainly and palpably unconstitutional?

I have already said, the power to lay duties is given by the Constitution in broad and general
terms. There is also conferred on Congress the whole power of regulating commerce, in another
distinct provision. Is it clear and palpable, Sir, can any man say it is a case beyond doubt,
that, under these two powers, Congress may not justly discriminate, in laying duties, for the
purpose of countervailing the policy of foreign nations, or of favoring our own home productions?
Sir, what ought to conclude this question for ever, as it would seem to me, is, that the regulation
of commerce and the imposition of duties are, in all commercial nations, powers avowedly and
constantly exercised for this very end. That undeniable truth ought to settle the question;
because the Constitution ought to be considered, when it uses well-known language, as using
it in its well-known sense. But it is equally undeniable, that it has been, from the very first,
fully believed that this power of discrimination was conferred on Congress; and the Constitution
was itself recommended, urged upon the people, and enthusiastically insisted on in some of
the States, for that very reason. Not that, at that time, the country was extensively engaged
in manufactures, especially of the kinds now existing. But the trades and crafts of the seaport
towns, the business of the artisans and manual laborers,--those employments, the work in which
supplies so great a portion of the daily wants of all classes,--all these looked to the new
Constitution as a source of relief from the severe distress which followed the war. It would,
Sir, be unpardonable, at so late an hour, to go into details on this point; but the truth is
as I have stated. The papers of the day, the resolutions of public meetings, the debates in
the conventions, all that we open our eyes upon in the history of the times, prove it.

Sir, the honorable gentleman from South Carolina has referred to two incidents connected with
the proceedings of the Convention at Philadelphia, which he thinks are evidence to show that
the power of protecting manufactures by laying duties, and by commercial regulations, was not
intended to be given to Congress. The first is, as he says, that a power to protect manufactures
was expressly proposed, but not granted. I think, Sir, the gentleman is quite mistaken in relation
to this part of the proceedings of the Convention. The whole history of the occurrence to which
he alludes is simply this. Towards the conclusion of the Convention, after the provisions of
the Constitution had been mainly agreed upon, after the power to lay duties and the power to
regulate commerce had both been granted, a long list of propositions was made and referred
to the committee, containing various miscellaneous powers, some or all of which it was thought
might be properly vested in Congress. Among these was a power to establish a university; to
grant charters of incorporation; to regulate stage-coaches on the post-roads; and also the
power to which the gentleman refers, and which is expressed in these words: "To establish public
institutions, rewards, and immunities, for the promotion of agriculture, commerce, trades,
and manufactures." The committee made no report on this or various other propositions in the
same list. But the only inference from this omission is, that neither the committee nor the
Convention thought it proper to authorize Congress "to establish public institutions, rewards,
and immunities," for the promotion of manufactures, and other interests. The Convention supposed
it had done enough,--at any rate, it had done all it intended,--when it had given to Congress,
in general terms, the power to lay imposts and the power to regulate trade. It is not to be
argued, from its omission to give more, that it meant to take back what it had already given.
It had given the impost power; it had given the regulation of trade; and it did not deem it
necessary to give the further and distinct power of establishing public institutions.

The other fact, Sir, on which the gentleman relies, is the declaration of Mr. Martin to the
legislature of Maryland. The gentleman supposes Mr. Martin to have urged against the Constitution,
that it did not contain the power of protection. But if the gentleman will look again at what
Mr. Martin said, he will find, I think, that what Mr. Martin complained of was, that the Constitution,
by its prohibitions on the States, had taken away from the States themselves the power of protecting
their own manufactures by duties on imports. This is undoubtedly true; but I find no expression
of Mr. Martin intimating that the Constitution had not conferred on Congress the same power
which it had thus taken from the States.

But, Sir, let us go to the first Congress; let us look in upon this and the other house, at
the first session of their organization.

We see, in both houses, men distinguished among the framers, friends, and advocates of the
Constitution. We see in both, those who had drawn, discussed, and matured the instrument in
the Convention, explained and defended it before the people, and were now elected members of
Congress, to put the new government into motion, and to carry the powers of the Constitution
into beneficial execution. At the head of the government was WASHINGTON himself, who had been
President of the Convention; and in his cabinet were others most thoroughly acquainted with
the history of the Constitution, and distinguished for the part taken in its discussion. If
these persons were not acquainted with the meaning of the Constitution, if they did not undergo
stand the work of their own hands, who can understand it, or who shall now interpret it to us?

Sir, the volume which records the proceedings and debates of the first session of the House
of Representatives lies before me. I open it, and I find that, having provided for the administration
of the necessary oaths, the very first measure proposed for consideration is, the laying of
imposts; and in the very first committee of the whole into which the House of Representatives
ever resolved itself, on this its earliest subject, and in this its very first debate, the
duty of so laying the imposts as to encourage manufactures was advanced and enlarged upon by
almost every speaker, and doubted or denied by none. The first gentleman who suggests this
as the clear duty of Congress, and as an object necessary to be attended to, is Mr. Fitzsimons,
of Pennsylvania; the second, Mr. White, of Virginia; the third, Mr. Tucker, of South Carolina.

But the great leader, Sir, on this occasion, was Mr. Madison. Was he likely to know the intentions
of the Convention and the people? Was he likely to understand the Constitution? At the second
sitting of the committee, Mr. Madison explained his own opinions of the duty of Congress, fully
and explicitly. I must not detain you, Sir, with more than a few short extracts from these
opinions, but they are such as are clear, intelligible, and decisive. "The States," says he,
"that are most advanced in population, and ripe for manufacturers, ought to have their particular
interest attended to, in some degree. While these States retained the power of making regulations
of trade, they had the power to cherish such institutions. By adopting the present Constitution,
they have thrown the exercise of this power into other hands; they must have done this with
an expectation that those interests would not be neglected here." In another report of the
same speech, Mr. Madison is represented as using still stronger language; as saying that, the
Constitution having taken this power away from the States and conferred it on Congress, it
would be a fraud on the States and on the people were Congress to refuse to exercise it.

Mr. Madison argues, Sir, on this early and interesting occasion, very justly and liberally,
in favor of the general principles of unrestricted commerce. But he argues, also, with equal
force and clearness, for certain important exceptions to these general principles. The first,
Sir, respects those manufactures which had been brought forward under encouragement by the
State governments. "It would be cruel," says Mr. Madison, "to neglect them, and to divert their
industry into other channels; for it is not possible for the hand of man to shift from one
employment to another without being injured by the change." Again: "There may be some manufactures
which, being once formed, can advance towards perfection without any adventitious aid; while
others, for want of the fostering hand of government, will be unable to go on at all. Legislative
provision, therefore, will be necessary to collect the proper objects for this purpose; and
this will form another exception to my general principle." And again: "The next exception that
occurs is one on which great stress is laid by some well-informed men, and this with great
plausibility; that each nation should have, within itself, the means of defence, independent
of foreign supplies; that, in whatever relates to the operations of war, no State ought to
depend upon a precarious supply from any part of the world. There may be some truth in this
remark; and therefore it is proper for legislative attention."

In the same debate, Sir, Mr. Burk, from South Carolina, supported a duty on hemp, for the express
purpose of encouraging its growth on the strong lands of South Carolina. "Cotton," he said,
"was also in contemplation among them, and, if good seed could be procured, he hoped might
succeed." Afterwards, Sir, the cotton was obtained, its culture was protected, and it did succeed.
Mr. Smith, a very distinguished member from the same state, observed: "It has been said, and
justly, that the States which adopted this Constitution expected its administration would be
conducted with a favorable hand. The manufacturing States wished the encouragement of manufactures,
the maritime States the encouragement of shipbuilding, and the agricultural States the encouragement
of agriculture."

Sir, I will detain the Senate by reading no more extracts from these debates. I have already
shown a majority of the members of South Carolina, in this very first session, acknowledging
this power of protection, voting for its exercise, and proposing its extension to their own
products. Similar propositions came from Virginia; and, indeed, Sir, in the whole debate, at
whatever page you open the volume, you find the power admitted, and you find it applied to
the protection of particular articles, or not applied, according to the discretion of Congress.
No man denied the power, no man doubted it; the only questions were, in regard to the several
articles proposed to be taxed, whether they were fit subjects for protection, and what the
amount of that protection ought to be. Will gentlemen, Sir, now answer the argument drawn from
these proceedings of the first Congress? Will they undertake to deny that that Congress did
act on the avowed principle of protection? Or, if they admit it, will they tell us how those
who framed the Constitution fell, thus early, into this great mistake about its meaning? Will
they tell us how it should happen that they had so soon forgotten their own sentiments and
their own purposes? I confess I have seen no answer to this argument, nor any respectable attempt
to answer it. And, Sir, how did this debate terminate? What law was passed? There it stands,
Sir, among the statutes, the second law in the book. It has a preamble, and that preamble expressly
recites, that the duties which it imposes are laid "for the support of government, for the
discharge of the debts of the United States, and the encouragement and protection of manufactures."
Until, Sir, this early legislation, thus coeval with the Constitution itself, thus full and
explicit, can be explained away, no man can doubt of the meaning of that instrument in this
respect.

Mr. President, this power of discrimination, thus admitted, avowed, and practised upon in the
first revenue act, has never been denied or doubted until within a few years past. It was not
at all doubted in 1816, when it became necessary to adjust the revenue to a state of peace.
On the contrary, the power was then exercised, not without opposition as to its expediency,
but, as far as I remember or have understood, without the slightest opposition founded on any
supposed want of constitutional authority. Certainly, South Carolina did not doubt it. The
tariff of 1816 was introduced, carried through, and established, under the lead of South Carolina.
Even the minimum policy is of South Carolina origin. The honorable gentleman himself supported,
and ably supported, the tariff of 1816. He has informed us, Sir, that his speech on that occasion
was sudden and off-hand, he being called up by the request of a friend. I am sure the gentleman
so remembers it, and that it was so; but there is, nevertheless, much method, arrangement,
and clear exposition in that extempore speech. It is very able, very, very much to the point,
and very decisive. And in another speech, delivered two months earlier, on the proposition
to repeal the internal taxes, the honorable gentleman had touched the same subject, and had
declared "that a certain encouragement ought to be extended at least to our woollen and cotton
manufactures." I do not quote these speeches, Sir, for the purpose of showing that the honorable
gentleman has changed his opinion: my object is other and higher. I do it for the sake of saying
that that cannot be so plainly and palpably unconstitutional as to warrant resistance to law,
nullification, and revolution, which the honorable gentleman and his friends have heretofore
agreed to and acted upon without doubt and without hesitation. Sir, it is no answer to say
that the tariff of 1816 was a revenue bill. So are they all revenue bills. The point is, and
the truth is, that the tariff of 1816, like the rest, did discriminate; it did distinguish
one article from another; it did lay duties for protection. Look to the case of coarse cottons
under the minimum calculation: the duty on these was from sixty to eighty per cent. Something
beside revenue, certainly, was intended in this; and, in fact, the law cut up our whole commerce
with India in that article.

It is, Sir, only within a few years that Carolina has denied the constitutionality of these
protective laws. The gentleman himself has narrated to us the true history of her proceedings
on this point. He says, that, after the passing of the law of 1828, despairing then of being
able to abolish the system of protection, political men went forth among the people, and set
up the doctrine that the system was unconstitutional. "And the people," says the honorable
gentleman, "received the doctrine." This, I believe, is true, Sir. The people did then receive
the doctrine; they had never entertained it before. Down to that period, the constitutionality
of these laws had been no more doubted in South Carolina than elsewhere. And I suspect it is
true, Sir, and I deem it a great misfortune, that, to the present moment, a great portion of
the people of the State have never yet seen more than one side of the argument. I believe that
thousands of honest men are involved in scenes now passing, led away by one-sided views of
the question, and following their leaders by the impulses of an unlimited confidence. Depend
upon it, Sir, if we can avoid the shock of arms, a day for reconsideration and reflection will
come; truth and reason will act with their accustomed force, and the public opinion of South
Carolina will be restored to its usual constitutional and patriotic tone.

But, Sir, I hold South Carolina to her ancient, her cool, her uninfluenced, her deliberate
opinions. I hold her to her own admissions, nay, to her own claims and pretensions, in 1789,
in the first Congress, and to her acknowledgments and avowed sentiments through a long series
of succeeding years. I hold her to the principles on which she led Congress to act in 1816;
or, if she have changed her own opinions, I claim some respect for those who still retain the
same opinions. I say she is precluded from asserting that doctrines, which she has herself
so long and so ably sustained, are plain, palpable, and dangerous violations of the Constitution.
Mr. President, if the friends of nullification should be able to propagate their opinions,
and give them practical effect, they would, in my judgment, prove themselves the most skilful
"architects of ruin," the most effectual extinguishers of high-raised expectation, the greatest
blasters of human hopes, that any age has produced. They would stand up to proclaim, in tones
which would pierce the ears of half the human race, that the last great experiment of representative
government had failed. They would send forth sounds, at the hearing of which the doctrine of
the divine right of kings would feel, even in its grave, a returning sensation of vitality
and resuscitation. Millions of eyes, of those who now feed their inherent love of liberty on
the success of the American example, would turn away from beholding our dismemberment, and
find no place on earth whereon to rest their gratified sight. Amidst the incantations and orgies
of nullification, secession, disunion, and revolution, would be celebrated the funeral rites
of constitutional and republican liberty.

But, Sir, if the government do its duty, if it act with firmness and with moderation, these
opinions cannot prevail. Be assured, Sir, be assured, that, among the political sentiments
of this people, the love of union is still uppermost. They will stand fast by the Constitution,
and by those who defend it. I rely on no temporary expedients, on no political combination;
but I rely on the true American feeling, the genuine patriotism of the people, and the imperative
decision of the public voice. Disorder and confusion, indeed, may arise; scenes of commotion
and contest are threatened, and perhaps may come. With my whole heart, I pray for the continuance
of the domestic peace and quiet of the country.

I desire, most ardently, the restoration of affection and harmony to all its parts. I desire
that every citizen of the whole country may look to this government with no other sentiments
than those of grateful respect and attachment. But I cannot yield even to kind feelings the
cause of the Constitution, the true glory of the country, and the great trust which we hold
in our hands for succeeding ages. If the Constitution cannot be maintained without meeting
these scenes of commotion and contest, however unwelcome, they must come. We cannot, we must
not, we dare not, omit to do that which, in our judgment, the safety of the Union requires.
Not regardless of consequences, we must yet meet consequences; seeing the hazards which surround
the discharge of public duty, it must yet be discharged. For myself, Sir, I shun no responsibility
justly devolving on me, here or elsewhere, in attempting to maintain the cause. I am bound
to it by indissoluble ties of affection and duty, and I shall cheerfully partake in its fortunes
and its fate. I am ready to perform my own appropriate part, whenever and wherever the occasion
may call on me, and to take my chance among those upon whom blows may fall first and fall thickest.
I shall exert every faculty I possess in aiding to prevent the Constitution from being nullified,
destroyed, or impaired; and even should I see it fall, I will still, with a voice feeble, perhaps,
but earnest as ever issued from human lips, and with fidelity and zeal which nothing shall
extinguish, call on the PEOPLE to come to its rescue. [2]

SPEECH AT SARATOGA.

We are, my friends, in the midst of a great movement of the people. That a revolution in public
sentiment on some important questions of public policy has begun, and is in progress, it is
vain to attempt to conceal, and folly to deny. What will be the extent of this revolution,
what its immediate effects upon political men and political measures, what ultimate influence
it may have on the integrity of the Constitution, and the permanent prosperity of the country,
remains to be seen. Meantime, no one can deny that an extraordinary excitement exists in the
country, such as has not been witnessed for more than half a century; not local, nor confined
to any two, or three, or ten States, but pervading the whole, from north to south, and from
east to west, with equal force and intensity. For an effect so general, a cause of equal extent
must exist. No cause, local or partial, can produce consequences so general and universal.
In some parts of the country, indeed, local causes may in some degree add to the flame; but
no local cause, nor any number of local causes, can account for the generally excited state
of the public mind.

In portions of the country devoted to agriculture and manufactures, we hear complaints of want
of market and low prices. Yet there are other portions of the country, which are consumers,
and not producers, of food and manufactures; and, as purchasers, they should, it would seem,
be satisfied with the low prices of which the sellers complain; but in these portions, too,
of the country, there are dissatisfaction and discontent. Everywhere we find complaining and
a desire for change.

There are those who think that this excitement among the people will prove transitory and evanescent.
I am not of that opinion. So far as I can judge, attention to public affairs among the people
of the United States, has increased, is increasing, and is not likely to be diminished; and
this not in one part of the country, but all over it. This certainly is the fact, if we may
judge from recent information. The breeze of popular excitement is blowing everywhere. It fans
the air in Alabama and the Carolinas; and I am of opinion, that, when it shall cross the Potomac,
and range along the Northern Alleghanies, it will grow stronger and stronger, until, mingling
with the gales of the Empire State, and the mountain blasts of New England, it will blow a
perfect hurricane.

There are those, again, who think these vast popular meetings are got up by effort; but I say
that no effort could get them up, and no effort can keep them down. There must, then, be some
general cause that animates the whole country. What is that cause? It is upon this point I
propose to give my opinion to-day. I have no design to offend the feelings of any, but I mean
in perfect plainness to express my views to the vast multitude assembled around. I know there
are among them many who from first to last supported General Jackson. I know there are many
who, if conscience and patriotism permitted, would support his successor; and I should ill
repay the attention with which they may honor me by any reviling or denunciation. Again, I
come to play no part of oratory before you. If there have been times and occasions in my life
when I might be supposed anxious to exhibit myself in such a light, that period has passed,
and this is not one of the occasions. I come to dictate and prescribe to no man. If my experience,
not now short, in the affairs of government, entitle my opinions to any respect, those opinions
are at the service of my fellow-citizens. What I shall state as facts, I hold myself and my
character responsible for; what I shall state as opinions, all are alike at liberty to reject
or to receive. I ask such consideration for them only as the fairness and sincerity with which
they are uttered may claim.

What, then, has excited the whole land, from Maine to Georgia, and gives us assurance, that,
while we are meeting here in New York in such vast numbers, other like meetings are holding
throughout all the States? That this cause must be general is certain, for it agitates the
whole country, and not parts only.

When that fluid in the human system indispensable to life becomes disordered, corrupted, or
obstructed in its circulation, not the head or the heart alone suffers; but the whole body--head,
heart, and hand, all the members, and all the extremities--is affected with debility, paralysis,
numbness, and death. The analogy between the human system and the social and political system
is complete; and what the lifeblood is to the former, circulation, money, currency, is to the
latter; and if that be disordered or corrupted, paralysis must fall on the system.

The original, leading, main cause, then, of all our difficulties and disasters, is the disordered
state of the circulation. This is, perhaps, not a perfectly obvious truth; and yet it is one
susceptible of easy demonstration. In order to explain this the more readily, I wish to bring
your minds to the consideration of the internal condition, and the vast domestic trade, of
the United States. Our country is not a small province or canton, but an empire, extending
over a large and diversified surface, with a population of various conditions and pursuits.
It is in this variety that consists its prosperity; for the different parts become useful one
to the other, not by identity, but by difference, of production, and thus each by interchange
contributes to the interest of the other. Hence, our internal trade, that which carries on
this exchange of the products and industry of the different portions of the United States,
is one of our most important interests, I had almost said the most important. Its operations
are easy and silent, not always perceptible, but diffusing health and life throughout the system
by the intercourse thus promoted, from neighborhood to neighborhood, and from State to State.

This circuit of trade, in a country of such great extent as ours, demands, more than in any
country under heaven, a uniform currency for the whole people; that what is money in Carolina
shall be so elsewhere; that what the Kentucky drover receives, what the planter of Alabama
sells for, what the laborer in New York gets in pay for his work, and carries home to support
his family, shall be of ascertained and uniform value.

This is not the time nor the occasion for an essay or dissertation on money; but I mean distinctly
to express the opinion, that until the general government shall take in hand the currency of
the country, until that government shall devise some means, I say not what, of raising the
whole currency to the level of gold and silver, there can be no prosperity.

Let us retrace briefly the history of the currency question in this country, a most important
branch of the commercial question. I appeal to all who have studied the history of the times,
and of the Constitution, whether our fathers, in framing the Constitution which should unite
us in common rights and a common glory, had not also among their chief objects to provide a
uniform system of commerce, including a uniform system of currency for the whole country. I
especially invite the ingenuous youth of the country to go back to the history of those times,
and particularly to the Virginia resolutions of 1786, and to the proceedings of the convention
at Annapolis, and they will there find that the prevailing motive for forming a general government
was, to secure a uniform system of commerce, of customhouse duties, and a general regulation
of the trade, external and internal, of the whole country. It was no longer to be the commerce
of New York, or of Massachusetts, but of the United States, to be carried on under that star-spangled
banner, which was to bear to every shore, and over every sea, the glorious motto, E Pluribus Unum.

At the second session, of the first Congress, the United States Bank was established. From
the incorporation of the bank to the expiration of its charter,[1] embracing a period of great
commercial and political vicissitudes, the currency furnished by that bank was never objected
to: it, indeed, surpassed the hopes and equalled the desires of everybody.

Of the hundreds here, possibly, who supported General Jackson, not one dreamed that he was
elected to put down established institutions and overthrow the currency of the country. Who,
among all those that, in the honest convictions of their hearts, cried, Hurrah for Jackson!
believed or expected or desired that he would interfere with the Bank of the United States,
or destroy the circulating medium of the country? [Here there arose a cry from the crowd, "None!
None!"] I stand here upon the fact, and defy contradiction from any quarter, that there was
no complaint then, anywhere, of the bank. There never before was a country, of equal extent,
where exchanges and circulation were carried on so cheaply, so conveniently, and so securely.
General Jackson was inaugurated in March, 1829, and pronounced an address upon that occasion,
which I heard, as I did the oath which he took to support the Constitution. In that address
were enumerated various objects, requiring, as he said, reform; but among them was not the
Bank of the United States, nor the currency. This was in March, 1829. In December, 1829, General
Jackson came out with the declaration (than which none I have ever heard surprised me more),
that "the constitutionality of the Bank of the United States might be well questioned," and
that it had failed to furnish a sound and uniform currency to the country.

What produced this change of views? Down to March of the same year, nothing of this sort was
indicated or threatened. What, then, induced the change? [A voice from the crowd said, "Martin
Van Buren."] If that be so, it was the production of mighty consequences by a cause not at
all proportioned. I will state, in connection with, and in elucidation of, this subject, certain
transactions, which constitute one of those contingencies in human affairs, in which casual
circumstances, acting upon the peculiar temper and character of a man of very decided temper
and character, affect the fate of nations. A movement was made in the summer of 1829, for the
purpose of effecting a change of certain officers of the branch of the Bank of the United States
in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Mr. Woodbury, then a Senator from New Hampshire, transmitted
to the president of the bank at Philadelphia a request; purporting to proceed from merchants
and men of business of all parties, asking the removal of the president of that branch, not
on political grounds, but as acceptable and advantageous to the business community. At the
same time, Mr. Woodbury addressed a letter to the then Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Ingham,
suggesting that his department should, on political grounds, obtain from the mother bank the
removal of the branch president. This letter was transmitted to the president of the mother
bank, and reached him about the same time with the other, so that, looking upon this picture
and upon that, upon one letter, which urged the removal on political grounds, and upon the
other, which denied that political considerations entered into the matter at all, he concluded
to let things remain as they were. Appeals were then artfully made to the President of the
United States. His feelings were enlisted, and it is well known that, when he had an object
in view, his character was to go ahead.[2] I mean to speak no evil nor disrespect of General
Jackson. He has passed off the stage to his retirement at the Hermitage, which it would be
as well, perhaps, that friends should not disturb, and where I sincerely wish he may, in tranquillity,
pass the residue of his days. But General Jackson's character was imperious; he took the back
track never; and however his friends might differ, or whether they concurred or dissented,
they were fain always to submit. General Jackson put forth the pretension, that appointments
by the bank should have regard to the wishes of the treasury; the matter was formally submitted
to the directors of the bank, and they as formally determined that the treasury could not rightly
or properly have any thing to say in the matter. A long and somewhat angry correspondence ensued;
for General Jackson found in the president of the bank a man who had something of his own quality.
The result was that the bank resisted, and refused the required acquiescence in the dictation
of the treasury.

This happened in the summer and autumn of 1829, and in December we had the message in which,
for the first time, the bank was arraigned and denounced. Then came the application of the
bank for re-incorporation, the passage of a bill for that purpose through both houses, and
the Presidential veto.[3] The Bank of the United States being thus put down, a multitude of
new State banks sprang up; and next came a law, adopting some of these as deposit banks. Now,
what I have to say in regard to General Jackson in this matter is this: he said he could establish
a better currency; and, whether successful or not in this, it is at least to be said in his
favor and praise, that he never did renounce the obligation of the federal government to take
care of the currency, paper as well as metallic, of the people. It was in furtherance of this
duty, which he felt called on to discharge, of "providing a better currency," that he recommended
the prohibition of small bills. Why?

It is not here a question whether these banks did, or did not, effect the purpose which General
Jackson takes so much praise to himself for accomplishing through their agency, that of supplying
the country with as good a currency as it ever enjoyed. But why, if this was not a duty of
the federal government, is it mentioned at all?

Two months only after General Jackson had retired, and when his vigorous hand was no longer
there to uphold it, the league of State banks fell, and crumbled into atoms; and when Mr. Van
Buren had been only three months President, he convoked a special session of Congress for the
ensuing September. The country was in wide-spread confusion, paralyzed in its commerce, its
currency utterly deranged.[4] What was to be done? What would Mr. Van Buren recommend? He could
not go back to the Bank of the United States, for he had committed himself against its constitutionality;
nor could he, with any great prospect of success, undertake to reconstruct the league of deposit
banks; for it had recently failed, and the country had lost confidence in it. What, then, was
to be done? He could go neither backward nor forward. What did he do? I mean not to speak disrespectfully,
but I say he--escaped! Afraid to touch the fragments of the broken banks, unable to touch the
United States Bank, he folded up his arms, and said, The government has nothing to do with
providing a currency for the people. That I may do him no wrong, I will read his own language.
His predecessors had all said, We will not turn our backs upon this duty of government to provide
a uniform currency; his language is, We will turn our backs on this duty. He proposes nothing
for the country, nothing for the relief of commerce, or the regulation of exchanges, but simply
the means of getting money into the treasury without loss. In his first message to Congress,
he thus expresses himself:--

"It is not the province of our government to aid individuals in the transfer of their funds,
otherwise than through the facilities of the Post-Office Department. As justly might it be
called on to provide for the transportation of their merchandise.

"If, therefore, I refrain from suggesting to Congress any specific plan for regulating the
exchanges or the currency, relieving mercantile embarrassments, or interfering with the ordinary
operations of foreign or domestic commerce, it is from a conviction that such are not within
the constitutional province of the general government, and that their adoption would not promote
the real and permanent welfare of those they might be designed to aid."

I put it to you, my friends, if this is a statesman's argument. You can transport your merchandise
yourselves; you can build ships, and make your own wagons; but can you make a currency? Can
you say what shall be money, and what shall not be money, and determine its value here and
elsewhere? Why, it would be as reasonable to say, that the people make war for themselves,
and peace for themselves, as to say that they may exercise this other not less exclusive attribute
of sovereignty, of making a currency for themselves. He insists that Congress has no power
to regulate currency or exchanges, none to mitigate the embarrassments of the country, none
to relieve its prostrate industry, and even if the power did exist, it would be unwise, in
his opinion, to exercise it!

The new doctrine which the administration had set up is one vitally affecting the business
and pursuits of the people at large, extending its efforts to the interests of every family,
and of every individual; and you must determine for yourselves if it shall be the doctrine
of the country. But, before determining, look well at the Constitution, weigh all the precedents,
and if names and authority are to be appealed to, contrast those of President Van Buren with
those of the dead patriarch whose words I have just read to you, and decide accordingly.

But Mr. Van Buren's message contains a principle,--one altogether erroneous as a doctrine,
and fatal in its operations,--the principle that the government has nothing to do with providing
a currency for the country; in other words, proposing a separation between the money of the
government and the money of the people. This is the great error, which cannot be compromised
with, which is susceptible of no amelioration or modification, like a disease which admits
no remedy and no palliative but the caustic which shall totally eradicate it.

Do we not know that there must always be bank paper? Is there a man here who expects that he,
or his children, or his children's children, shall see the day when only gold coin, glittering
through silk purses, will be the currency of the country, to the entire exclusion of bank notes?
Not one. But we are told that the value of these notes is questionable. It is the neglect of
government to perform its duties that makes them so. You here, in New York, have sound bank
paper, redeemable in coin; and if you were surrounded by a Chinese wall, it might be indifferent
to you whether government looked after the currency elsewhere or not. But you have daily business
relations with Pennsylvania, and with the West, and East, and South, and you have a direct
interest that their currency too shall be sound; for otherwise the very superiority of yours
is, to a certain degree, an injury and loss to you, since you pay in the equivalent of specie
for what you buy, and you sell for such money as may circulate in the States with which you
deal. But New York cannot affect the general restoration of the currency, nor any one State,
nor any number of States short of the whole, and hence the duty of the general government to
superintend this interest.

But what does the sub-treasury propose? [6] Its basis is a separation of the concerns of the
treasury from those of the people. It directs that there shall be certain vaults, and safes,
and rooms for deposit of the money of the government. But it has not been for want of adequate
vaults and rooms that we have lost our money, but owing to the hands to which we have intrusted
the keys. It is in the character of the officers, and not in the strength of bars and vaults,
that we must look for the security of the public treasure. There are no securities under this
new system of keeping the public moneys that we had not before; while many that did exist,
in the personal character, high trusts, and diversified duties of the officers and directors
of banks are removed. Moreover, the number of receiving and disbursing officers is increased,
and the danger to the public treasure is increased in proportion.  The next provision is, that
money once received into the treasury is not to be lent out. Yet the practice of this government
hitherto has always been opposed to this policy of locking up the money of the people, when
and while it is not required for the public service. Until this time the public deposits, like
private deposits, were used by the banks in which they were placed, as some compensation for
the trouble of safe-keeping, and in furtherance of the general convenience. The next provision
is that requiring, after 1843, all dues to the government to be paid in gold and silver. But
what are we promised as the equivalent for all this inconvenience and oppression? Why, that
the government in its turn will pay its debts in specie, and that thus what it receives with
one hand it will pay out with the other, and a metallic circulation will be established. I
undertake to say, that no greater fallacy than this was ever uttered; the thing is impossible,
and for this plain reason. The dues which the government collects come from individuals; each
pays for himself. But it is far otherwise with the disbursements of government. They do not
go down to individuals, and, seeking out the workmen and the laborers, pay to each his dues.
Government pays in large sums, to large contractors, and to these it may pay gold and silver.
But do the gold and silver reach those whom the contractor employs? On the contrary, the contractors
deal as they see fit, with those whom they employ, or of whom they purchase. I speak of what
is in proof. A contractor came to Washington last winter, and received a draft of $180,000
on a specie-paying bank in New York. This he sold at ten per cent premium, and with the avails
purchased funds in the West, with which he paid the producer, the farmer, the laborer. This
is the operation of specie payments. It gives to the government hard money, to the rich contractor
hard money; but to the producer and the laborer it gives paper, and bad paper only. And yet
this system is recommended as specially favoring the poor man, rather than the rich, and credit
is claimed for this administration as the poor man's friend.

Let us look a little more nearly at this matter, and see whom, in truth, it does favor. Who
are the rich in this country? There is very little hereditary wealth among us; and large capitalists
are not numerous. But some there are, nevertheless, who live upon the interest of their money;
and these, certainly, do not suffer by this new doctrine; for their revenues are increased
in amount, while the means of living are reduced in value. There is the money-lender, too,
who suffers not by the reduction of prices all around him. Who else are the rich in this country?
Why, the holders of office. He who has a fixed salary of from $2,500 to $5,000 finds prices
falling; but does his salary fall? On the contrary, three fourths of that salary will now purchase
more than the whole of it would purchase before; and he, therefore, is not dissatisfied with
this new state of things.

I live on the sea-coast of New England, and one of my nearest neighbors is the largest ship-owner,
probably, in the United States. During the past year, he has made what might suffice for two
or three fortunes of moderate size; and how has he made it? He sends his ships to Alabama,
Louisiana, Mississippi, to take freights of cotton. This staple, whatever may be the price
abroad, cannot be suffered to rot at home; and therefore it is shipped. My friend tells his
captain to provision his ship at Natchez, for instance, where he buys flour and stores in the
currency of that region, which is so depreciated that he is able to sell his bills on Boston
at forty-eight per cent premium! Here, at once, it will be seen, he gets his provisions for
half price, because prices do not always rise suddenly, as money depreciates. He delivers his
freight in Europe, and gets paid for it in good money. The disordered currency of the country
to which he belongs does not follow and afflict him abroad. He gets his freight in good money,
places it in the hands of his owner's banker, who again draws at a premium for it. The ship-owner,
then, makes money, when all others are suffering, because he can escape from the influence
of the bad laws and bad currency of his own country.

Now, I will contrast the story of this neighbor with that of another of my neighbors, not rich.
He is a New England mechanic, hard-working, sober, and intelligent, a tool-maker by trade,
who wields his own sledge-hammer. His particular business is the making of augers for the South
and Southwest. He has for years employed many hands, and been the support thereby of many families
around him, himself, meanwhile, moderately prosperous until these evil times came on. Annually,
however, for some years, he has been going backwards. Not less industrious, not less frugal,
he has yet found, that, however good nominally the prices he might receive at the South and
Southwest for his tools, the cost of converting his Southern or Western funds into money current
in New England was ruinous. He has persevered, however, always hoping for some change for the
better, and contracting gradually the circle of his work and the number of his workmen, until
at length, the little earnings of the past wasted, and the condition of the currency becoming
worse and worse, he is reduced to bankruptcy; and he, and the twenty families that he supported,
are beggared by no fault of their own. What was his difficulty? He could not escape from the
evils of bad laws and bad currency at home; and while his rich neighbor, who could and did,
is made richer by these very causes, he, the honest and industrious mechanic, is crushed to
the earth; and yet we are told that this is a system for promoting the interests of the poor!

This leads me naturally to the great subject of American labor, which has hardly been considered
or discussed as carefully as it deserves. What is American labor? It is best described by saying,
it is not European labor. Nine tenths of the whole labor of this country is performed by those
who cultivate the land they or their fathers own, or who, in their workshops, employ some little
capital of their own, and mix it up with their manual toil. No such thing exists in other countries.
Look at the different departments of industry, whether agricultural, manufacturing, or mechanical,
and you will find that, in almost all, the laborers mix up some little capital with the work
of their hands. The laborer of the United States is the United States. Strike out the laborers
of the United States, including therein all who in some way or other belong to the industrious
and working classes, and you reduce the population of the United States from sixteen millions
to one million. The American laborer is expected to have a comfortable home, decent though
frugal living, and to be able to clothe and educate his children, to qualify them to take part,
as all are called to do, in the political affairs and government of their country. Can this
be said of any European laborer? Does he take any share in the government of his country, or
feel it an obligation to educate his children? In most parts of Europe, nine tenths of the
laborers have no interest in the soil they cultivate, nor in the fabrics they produce; no hope,
under any circumstances, of rising themselves, or of raising their children, above the condition
of a day- laborer at wages; and only know the government under which they live by the sense
of its burdens, which they have no voice in mitigating.

To compare such a state of labor with the labor of this country, or to reason from that to
ours, is preposterous. And yet the doctrine now is, not of individuals only, but of the administration,
that the wages of American labor must be brought down to the level of those of Europe.

I have said this is not the doctrine of a few individuals; and on that head I think injustice
has been done to a Senator from Pennsylvania, who has been made to bear a large share of the
responsibility of suggesting such a policy. If I mistake not, the same idea is thrown out in
the President's message at the commencement of the last session, and in the treasury report.
Hear what Mr. Woodbury says:--

"Should the States not speedily suspend more of their undertakings which are unproductive,
but, by new loans or otherwise, find means to employ armies of laborers in consuming rather
than raising crops, and should prices thus continue in many cases to be unnaturally inflated,
as they have been of late years, in the face of a contracting currency, the effect of it on
our finances would be still more to lessen exports, and, consequently, the prosperity and revenue
of our foreign trade."

He is for turning off from the public works these "armies of laborers," who consume without
producing crops, and thus bring down prices, both of crops and labor. Diminish the mouths that
consume, and multiply the arms that produce, and you have the treasury prescription for mitigating
distress and raising prices! How would that operate in this great State? You have, perhaps,
some fifteen thousand men employed on your public works, works of the kind that the Secretary
calls "unproductive"; and, even with such a demand as they must produce for provisions, prices
are very low. The Secretary's remedy is to set them to raise provisions themselves, and thus
augment the supply, while they diminish the demand. In this way, the wages of labor are to
be reduced, as well as the prices of agricultural productions. But this is not all. I have
in my hand an extract from a speech in the House of Representatives of a zealous supporter,
as it appears, of the administration, who maintains that, other things being reduced in proportion,
you may reduce the wages of labor, without evil consequences. And where does he seek this example?
On the shores of the Mediterranean. He fixes upon Corsica and Sardinia. But what is the Corsican
laborer, that he should be the model upon which American labor is to be formed? Does he know
any thing himself? Has he any education, or does he give any to his children? Has he a home,
a freehold, and the comforts of life around him? No: with a crust of bread and a handful of
olives, his daily wants are satisfied. And yet, from such a state of society, the laborer of
New England, the laborer of the United States, is to be taught submission to low wages. The
extract before me states that the wages of Corsica are,

  "For the male laborer, 24 cents a day;
   And the female do. 11 cents do.";--

both, I presume, finding their own food. And the honorable gentleman argues, that, owing to
the greater cheapness of other articles, this is relatively as much as the American laborer
gets; and he illustrates the fact by this bill of clothing for a Corsican laborer:--

  "Jacket,   lasting 24 months, 8 francs;
  Cap,           do. 24     do. 2 do.
  Waistcoat,     do. 36     do. 4 do.
  Pantaloons,    do. 18     do. 5 do.
  Shirt,         do. 12     do. 3 do.
  Pair of shoes, do. 6      do. 6 do.
                              ---
                               28 francs."

Eight francs are equal to one dollar and sixty cents, and five francs to one dollar. Now, what
say you, my friends? What will the farmer of New York, of Pennsylvania, or of New England say
to the idea of walking on Sunday to church, at the head of his family, in his jacket two years
old? What will the young man say, when, his work ended, he desires to visit the families of
his neighbors, to the one pair of pantaloons, not quite two years old, indeed, but, as the
farmers say of a colt, "coming two next grass," and which, for eighteen months, have every
day done yeoman's service? Away with it all! Away with this plan of humbling and degrading
the free, intelligent, well-educated, and well-paid laborer of the United States to the level
of the almost brute laborer of Europe!

There is not much danger that schemes and doctrines such as these shall find favor with the
people. They understand their own interest too well for that. Gentlemen, I am a farmer, on
the sea-shore, [7] and have, of course, occasion to employ some degree of agricultural labor.
I am sometimes also rowed out to sea, being, like other New England men, fond of occasionally
catching a fish, and finding health and recreation, in warm weather, from the air of the ocean.
For the few months during which I am able to enjoy this retreat from labor, public or professional,
I do not often trouble my neighbors, or they me, with conversation on politics. It happened,
however, about three weeks ago, that, on such an excursion as I have mentioned, with one man
only with me, I mentioned this doctrine of the reduction of prices, and asked him his opinion
of it. He said he did not like it. I replied, "The wages of labor, it is true, are reduced;
but then flour and beef, and perhaps clothing, all of which you buy, are reduced also. What,
then, can be your objections?" "Why," said he, "it is true that flour is now low; but then
it is an article that may rise suddenly, by means of a scanty crop in England, or at home;
and if it should rise from five dollars to ten, I do not know for certain that it would fetch
the price of my labor up with it. But while wages are high, then I am safe; and if produce
chances to fall, so much the better for me. But there is another thing. I have but one thing
to sell, that is, my labor; but I must buy many things, not only flour, and meat, and clothing,
but also some articles that come from other countries,--a little sugar, a little coffee, a
little tea, a little of the common spices, and such like. Now, I do not see how these foreign
articles will be brought down by reducing wages at home; and before the price is brought down
of the only thing I have to sell, I want to be sure that the prices will fall also, not of
a part, but of all the things which I must buy."

Now, Gentlemen, though he will be astonished, or amused, that I should tell the story before
such a vast and respectable assemblage as this, I will place the argument of Seth Peterson,
sometimes farmer and sometimes fisherman on the coast of Massachusetts, stated to me while
pulling an oar with each hand, and with the sleeves of his red shirt rolled up above his elbows,
against the reasonings, the theories, and the speeches of the administration and all its friends,
in or out of Congress, and take the verdict of the country, and of the civilized world, whether
he has not the best of the argument.

Since I have adverted to this conversation, Gentlemen, allow me to say that this neighbor of
mine is a man fifty years of age, one of several sons of a poor man; that by his labor he has
obtained some few acres, his own unencumbered freehold, has a comfortable dwelling, and plenty
of the poor man's blessings. Of these, I have known six, decently and cleanly clad, each with
the book, the slate, and the map proper to its age, all going at the same time daily to enjoy
the blessing of that which is the great glory of New England, the common free school. Who can
contemplate this, and thousands of other cases like it, not as pictures, but as common facts,
without feeling how much our free institutions, and the policy hitherto pursued, have done
for the comfort and happiness of the great mass of our citizens? Where in Europe, where in
any part of the world out of our own country, shall we find labor thus rewarded, and the general
condition of the people so good? Nowhere; nowhere! Away, then, with the injustice and the folly
of reducing the cost of productions with us to what is called the common standard of the world!
Away, then, away at once and for ever, with the miserable policy which would bring the condition
of a laborer in the United States to that of a laborer in Russia or Sweden, in France or Germany,
in Italy or Corsica! Instead of following these examples, let us hold up our own, which all
nations may well envy, and which, unhappily, in most parts of the earth, it is easier to envy
than to imitate.

But it is the cry and effort of the times to stimulate those who are called poor against those
who are called rich; and yet, among those who urge this cry, and seek to profit by it, there
is betrayed sometimes an occasional sneer at whatever savors of humble life. Witness the reproach
against a candidate now before the people for their highest honors, that a log cabin, with
plenty of hard cider, is good enough for him!

It appears to some persons, that a great deal too much use is made of the symbol of the log
cabin. No man of sense supposes, certainly, that the having lived in a log cabin is any further
proof of qualification for the Presidency, than as it creates a presumption that any one who,
rising from humble condition, or under unfavorable circumstances, has been able to attract
a considerable degree of public attention, is possessed of reputable qualities, moral and intellectual.

But it is to be remembered, that this matter of the log cabin originated, not with the friends
of the Whig candidate, but with his enemies. Soon after his nomination at Harrisburg, a writer
for one of the leading administration papers spoke of his "log cabin," and his use of "hard
cider," by way of sneer and reproach. As might have been expected, (for pretenders are apt
to be thrown off their guard,) this taunt at humble life proceeded from the party which claims
a monopoly of the purest democracy. The whole party appeared to enjoy it, or, at least, they
countenanced it by silent acquiescence; for I do not know that, to this day, any eminent individual
or any leading newspaper attached to the administration has rebuked this scornful jeering at
the supposed humble condition or circumstances in life, past or present, of a worthy man and
a war-worn soldier. But it touched a tender point in the public feeling. It naturally roused
indignation. What was intended as reproach was immediately seized on as merit. "Be it so! Be
it so!" was the instant burst of the public voice. "Let him be the log cabin candidate. What
you say in scorn, we will shout with all our lungs. From this day forward, we have our cry
of rally; and we shall see whether he who has dwelt in one of the rude abodes of the West may
not become the best house in the country!"

All this is natural, and springs from sources of just feeling. Other things, Gentlemen, have
had a similar origin. We all know that the term "Whig" was bestowed in derision, two hundred
years ago, on those who were thought too fond of liberty; and our national air of "Yankee Doodle"
was composed by British officers, in ridicule of the American troops. Yet, ere long, the last
of the British armies laid down its arms at Yorktown, while this same air was playing in the
ears of officers and men. Gentlemen, it is only shallow-minded pretenders who either make distinguished
origin matter of personal merit, or obscure origin matter of personal reproach. Taunt and scoffing
at the humble condition of early life affect nobody, in this country, but those who are foolish
enough to indulge in them, and they are generally sufficiently punished by public rebuke. A
man who is not ashamed of himself need not be ashamed of his early condition.

Gentlemen, it did not happen to me to be born in a log cabin; but my elder brothers and sisters
were born in a log cabin, raised amid the snow-drifts of New Hampshire, at a period so early
that, when the smoke first rose from its rude chimney, and curled over the frozen hills, there
was no similar evidence of a white man's habitation between it and the settlements on the rivers
of Canada. Its remains still exist. I make to it an annual visit. I carry my children to it,
to teach them the hardships endured by the generations which have gone before them. I love
to dwell on the tender recollections, the kindred ties, the early affections, and the touching
narratives and incidents, which mingle with all I know of this primitive family abode. I weep
to think that none of those who inhabited it are now among the living; and if ever I am ashamed
of it, or if I ever fail in affectionate veneration for him who reared it, and defended it
against savage violence and destruction, cherished all the domestic virtues beneath its roof,
and, through the fire and blood of a seven years' revolutionary war, shrunk from no danger,
no toil, no sacrifice, to serve his country, and to raise his children to a condition better
than his own, may my name and the name of my posterity be blotted for ever from the memory
of mankind!

I have now frankly stated my opinions as to the nature of the present excitement, and have
answered the question I propounded as to the causes of the revolution in public sentiment now
in progress. Will this revolution succeed? Does it move the masses, or is it an ebullition
merely on the surface? And who is it that opposes the change which seems to be going forward?
[Here some one in the crowd cried out, "None, hardly, but the office-holders, oppose it."]
I hear one say that the office-holders oppose it; and that is true. If they were quiet, in
my opinion, a change would take place almost by common consent. I have heard of an anecdote,
perhaps hardly suited to the sobriety and dignity of this occasion, but which confirms the
answer which my friend in the crowd has given to my question. It happened to a farmer's son,
that his load of hay was blown over by a sudden gust, on an exposed plain. Those near him,
seeing him manifest a degree of distress, which such an accident would not usually occasion,
asked him the reason; he said he should not take on so much about it, only father was under
the load. I think it very probable, Gentlemen, that there are many now very active and zealous
friends, who would not care much whether the wagon of the administration were blown over or
not, if it were not for the fear that father, or son, or uncle, or brother, might be found
under the load. Indeed, it is remarkable how frequently the fire of patriotism glows in the
breast of the holders of office. A thousand favored contractors shake with horrid fear, lest
the proposed change should put the interests of the public in great danger. Ten thousand post-offices,
moved by the same apprehension, join in the cry of alarm, while a perfect earthquake of disinterested
remonstrance proceeds from the custom-houses. Patronage and favoritism tremble and quake, through
every limb and every nerve, lest the people should be found in favor of a change, which might
endanger the liberties of the country, or at least break down its present eminent and distinguished
prosperity, by abandoning the measures, so wise, so beneficent, so successful, and so popular,
which the present administration has pursued!

Fellow-citizens, we have all sober and important duties to perform. I have not addressed you
to-day for the purpose of joining in a premature note of triumph, or raising a shout for anticipated
victories. We are in the controversy, not through it. It is our duty to spare no pains to circulate
information, and to spread the truth far and wide. Let us persuade those who differ from us,
if we can, to hear both sides. Let us remind them that we are all embarked together, with a
common interest and a common fate. And let us, without rebuke or unkindness, beseech them to
consider what the good of the whole requires, what is best for them and for us.

There are two causes which keep back thousands of honest men from joining those who wish for
a change. The first of these is the fear of reproach from former associates, and the pain which
party denunciation is capable of inflicting. But, surely, the manliness of the American character
is superior to this! Surely, no American citizen will feel himself chained to the wheels of
any party, nor bound to follow it, against his conscience and his sense of the interest of
the country. Resolution and decision ought to dissipate such restraints, and to leave men free
at once to act upon their own convictions. Unless this can be done, party has entailed upon
us a miserable slavery, by compelling us to act against our consciences on questions of the
greatest importance.

The other cause is the constant cry that the party of the administration is the true democratic
party, or the more popular party in the government and in the country. The falsity of this
claim has not been sufficiently exposed. It should have been met, and should be now met, not
only by denial, but by proof. If they mean the new democracy,--the cry against credit, against
industry, against labor, against a man's right to leave his own earnings to his own children,--why,
then, doubtless, they are right; all this sort of democracy is theirs. But if by democracy
they mean a conscientious and stern adherence to the true popular principles of the Constitution
and the government, then I think they have very little claim to it. Is the augmentation of
executive power a democratic principle? Is the separation of the currency of the government
from the currency of the people a democratic principle? Is the imbodying a large military force,
in time of peace, a democratic principle?

Let us entreat honest men not to take names for things, nor pretences for proofs. If democracy,
in any constitutional sense, belongs to our adversaries, let them show their title and produce
their evidence. Let the question be examined; and let not intelligent and well-meaning citizens
be kept to the support of measures which in their hearts and consciences they disapprove, because
their authors put forth such loud claims to the sole possession of regard for the people.

Fellow-citizens of the County of Saratoga, in taking leave of you, I cannot but remind you
how distinguished a place your county occupies in the history of the country. I cannot be ignorant,
that in the midst of you are many, at this moment, who saw in this neighborhood the triumph
of republican arms in the surrender of General Burgoyne. I cannot doubt that a fervent spirit
of patriotism burns in their breasts and in the breasts of their children. They helped to save
their country amidst the storms of war; they will help to save it, I am fully persuaded, in
the present severe civil crisis. I verily believe it is true, that, of all that are left to
us from the Revolution, nine tenths are with us in the existing contest. If there be living
a Revolutionary officer, or soldier, who has joined in the attacks upon General Harrison's
military character, I have not met with him. It is not, therefore, in the county of Saratoga,
that a cause sustained by such means is likely to prevail.

Fellow-citizens, the great question is now before the country. If, with the experience of the
past, the American people think proper to confirm power in the hands which now hold it, and
thereby sanction the leading policy of the administration, it will be your duty and mine to
bow, with submission, to the public will; but, for myself, I shall not believe it possible
for me to be of service to the country, in any department of public life. I shall look on,
with no less love of country than ever, but with fearful forebodings of what may be near at hand.

But I do not at all expect that result. I fully believe the change is coming. If we all do
our duty, we shall restore the government to its former policy, and the country to its former
prosperity. And let us here, to-day, fellow-citizens, with full resolution and patriotic purpose
of heart, give and take pledges, that, until this great controversy be ended, our time, our
talents, our efforts, are all due, and shall all be faithfully given, to OUR COUNTRY.

Mr. Justice Story.

Your solemn announcement, Mr. Chief Justice, has confirmed the sad intelligence which had already
reached us, through the public channels of information, and deeply afflicted us all.

Joseph Story, one of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, and
for many years the presiding judge of this Circuit, died on Wednesday evening last, at his
house in Cambridge, wanting only a few days for the completion of the sixty-sixth year of his age.

This most mournful and lamentable event has called together the whole Bar of Suffolk, and all
connected with the courts of law or the profession. It has brought you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and your associates of the Bench of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, into the midst of us;
and you have done us the honor, out of respect to the occasion, to consent to preside over
us, while we deliberate on what is due, as well to our own afflicted and smitten feelings,
as to the exalted character and eminent distinction of the deceased judge. The occasion has
drawn from his retirement, also, that venerable man, whom we all so much respect and honor,
(Judge Davis,) who was, for thirty years, the associate of the deceased upon the same Bench.
It has called hither another judicial personage, now in retirement, (Judge Putnam,) but long
an ornament of that Bench of which you are now the head, and whose marked good fortune it is
to have been the professional teacher of Mr. Justice Story, and the director of his early studies.
He also is present to whom this blow comes near; I mean, the learned judge (Judge Sprague)
from whose side it has struck away a friend and a highly venerated official associate. The
members of the Law School at Cambridge, to which the deceased was so much attached, and who
returned that attachment with all the ingenuousness and enthusiasm of educated and ardent youthful
minds, are here also, to manifest their sense of their own severe deprivation, as well as their
admiration of the bright and shining professional example which they have so loved to contemplate,--an
example, let me say to them, and let me say to all, as a solace in the midst of their sorrows,
which death hath not touched and which time cannot obscure.

Mr. Chief Justice, one sentiment pervades us all. It is that of the most profound and penetrating
grief, mixed, nevertheless, with an assured conviction, that the great man whom we deplore
is yet with us and in the midst of us. He hath not wholly died. He lives in the affections
of friends and kindred, and in the high regard of the community. He lives in our remembrance
of his social virtues, his warm and steady friendships, and the vivacity and richness of his
conversation. He lives, and will live still more permanently, by his words of written wisdom,
by the results of his vast researches and attainments, by his imperishable legal judgments,
and by those juridical disquisitions which have stamped his name, all over the civilized world,
with the character of a commanding authority. "Vivit, enim, vivetque semper; atque etiam latius
in memoria hominum et sermone versabitur, postquam ab oculis recessit."

Mr. Chief Justice, there are consolations which arise to mitigate our loss, and shed the influence
of resignation over unfeigned and heart-felt sorrow. We are all penetrated with gratitude to
God that the deceased lived so long; that he did so much for himself, his friends, the country,
and the world; that his lamp went out, at last, without unsteadiness or flickering. He continued
to exercise every power of his mind without dimness or obscuration, and every affection of
his heart with no abatement of energy or warmth, till death drew an impenetrable veil between
us and him. Indeed, he seems to us now, as in truth he is, not extinguished or ceasing to be,
but only withdrawn; as the clear sun goes down at its setting, not darkened, but only no longer
seen.

This calamity, Mr. Chief Justice, is not confined to the bar or the courts of this Commonwealth.
It will be felt by every bar throughout the land, by every court, and indeed by every intelligent
and well informed man in or out of the profession. It will be felt still more widely, for his
reputation had a still wider range. In the High Court of Parliament, in every tribunal in Westminster
Hall, in the judicatories of Paris and Berlin, of Stockholm and St. Petersburg, in the learned
universities of Germany, Italy, and Spain, by every eminent jurist in the civilized world,
it will be acknowledged that a great luminary has fallen from the firmament of public jurisprudence.[1]

Sir, there is no purer pride of country than that in which we may indulge when we see America
paying back the great debt of civilization, learning, and science to Europe. In this high return
of light for light and mind for mind, in this august reckoning and accounting between the intellects
of nations, Joseph Story was destined by Providence to act, and did act, an important part.
Acknowledging, as we all acknowledge, our obligations to the original sources of English law,
as well as of civil liberty, we have seen in our generation copious and salutary streams turning
and running backward, replenishing their original fountains, and giving a fresher and a brighter
green to the fields of English jurisprudence. By a sort of reversed hereditary transmission,
the mother, without envy or humiliation, acknowledges that she has received a valuable and
cherished inheritance from the daughter. The profession in England admits with frankness and
candor, and with no feeling but that of respect and admiration, that he whose voice we have
so recently heard within these walls, but shall now hear no more, was of all men who have yet
appeared, most fitted by the comprehensiveness of his mind, and the vast extent and accuracy
of his attainments, to compare the codes of nations, to trace their differences to difference
of origin, climate, or religious or political institutions, and to exhibit, nevertheless, their
concurrence in those great principles upon which the system of human civilization rests.

Justice, Sir, is the great interest of man on earth. It is the ligament which holds civilized
beings and civilized nations together. Wherever her temple stands, and so long as it is duly
honored, there is a foundation for social security, general happiness, and the improvement
and progress of our race. And whoever labors on this edifice with usefulness and distinction,
whoever clears its foundations, strengthens its pillars, adorns its entablatures, or contributes
to raise its august dome still higher in the skies, connects himself, in name, and fame, and
character, with that which is and must be as durable as the frame of human society.

All know, Mr. Chief Justice, the pure love of country which animated the deceased, and the
zeal, as well as the talent, with which he explained and defended her institutions. His work
on the Constitution of the United States is one of his most eminently successful labors. But
all his writings, and all his judgments, all his opinions, and the whole influence of his character,
public and private, leaned strongly and always to the support of sound principles, to the restraint
of illegal power, and to the discouragement and rebuke of licentious and disorganizing sentiments.
"Ad rempublicam firmandam, et ad stabiliendas vires, et sanandum populum, omnis ejus pergebat
institutio."

But this is not the occasion, Sir, nor is it for me to consider and discuss at length the character
and merits of Mr. Justice Story, as a writer or a judge. The performance of that duty, with
which this Bar will no doubt charge itself, must be deferred to another opportunity, and will
be committed to abler hands. But in the homage paid to his memory, one part may come with peculiar
propriety and emphasis from ourselves. We have known him in private life. We have seen him
descend from the bench, and mingle in our friendly circles. We have known his manner of life,
from his youth up. We can bear witness to the strict uprightness and purity of his character,
his simplicity and unostentatious habits, the ease and affability of his intercourse, his remarkable
vivacity amidst severe labors, the cheerful and animating tones of his conversation, and his
fast fidelity to friends. Some of us, also, can testify to his large and liberal charities,
not ostentatious or casual, but systematic and silent, --dispensed almost without showing the
hand, and falling and distilling comfort and happiness, like the dews of heaven. But we can
testify, also, that in all his pursuits and employments, in all his recreations, in all his
commerce with the world, and in his intercourse with the circle of his friends, the predominance
of his judicial character was manifest. He never forgot the ermine which he wore. The judge,
the judge, the useful and distinguished judge, was the great picture which he kept constantly
before his eyes, and to a resemblance of which all his efforts, all his thoughts, all his life,
were devoted. We may go the world over, without finding a man who shall present a more striking
realization of the beautiful conception of D'Aguesseau: "C'est en vain que l'on cherche a distinguer
en lui la personne privee et la personne publique; un meme esprit les anime, un meme objet
les reunit; l'homme, le pere de famille, le citoyen, tout est en lui consacre a la gloire du
magistrat."

Mr. Chief Justice, one may live as a conqueror, a king, or a magistrate; but he must die as
a man. The bed of death brings every human being to his pure individuality; to the intense
contemplation of that deepest and most solemn of all relations, the relation between the creature
and his Creator. Here it is that fame and renown cannot assist us; that all external things
must fail to aid us; that even friends, affection, and human love and devotedness, cannot succor
us. This relation, the true foundation of all duty, a relation perceived and felt by conscience
and confirmed by revelation, our illustrious friend, now deceased, always acknowledged.

He reverenced the Scriptures of truth, honored the pure morality which they teach, and clung
to the hopes of future life which they impart. He beheld enough in nature, in himself, and
in all that can be known of things seen, to feel assured that there is a Supreme Power, without
whose providence not a sparrow falleth to the ground. To this gracious being he entrusted himself
for time and for eternity; and the last words of his lips ever heard by mortal ears were a
fervent supplication to his Maker to take him to himself. [2]

Biographical.

First Period: Law and Politics in New Hampshire.

1782 Born at Salisbury, New Hampshire, January 18.
     Early Education.
1797 Enters Dartmouth College.
1805 Admitted to the Bar,
1805.
     Practises in Boscawen.
1807 Removes to Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
1813 Elected to Congress from Portsmouth.
1814-15 The Hartford Convention.

Second Period: Leader at the Bar and in the Forum.

1816 Removes to Boston, Massachusetts. 1817 "The Defence of the Kennistons." 1818 "The Dartmouth
College Case." 1820 Massachusetts Convention.

Third Period: Expounder and Defender of the Constitution.

1827 Elected to the Senate from Massachusetts.
1830 "The Reply to Hayne."
1833 "The  Constitution not a Compact between Sovereign States."
1833-34 Removal of the Deposits from the United States Bank.
     Rise of the Whig Party.
1835 Nominated to the Presidency by the Whigs of Massachusetts.
1837 Reception in New York.
1839 Visits England.
1840 Presidential Canvass.
1840-43 Secretary of State.
     Ashburton Treaty.
     Resigns the Department of State.
1844 Re-elected to the Senate from Massachusetts.
1845 "Eulogy on Justice Story."
     Annexation of Texas.
1846 Banquet in Philadelphia.
1850 Seventh of March Speech.
     Secretary of State under President Fillmore.
1852 Public Reception in Boston.
     Last Illness and Death.

Notes.

DEFENCE OF THE KENNISTONS

April, 1817.

Mr. Webster had been elected to Congress from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in 1813, and his term
expired in March, 1816. In August of that year (1816) he removed his family to Boston, and
decided to devote himself exclusively to the profession of the law. He had won a high position
both in law and politics in New Hampshire. The change of residence marks an era in the life
of Mr. Webster. Mr. Lodge says that there is a tradition that the worthies of the Puritan city
were disposed at first to treat the newcomer somewhat cavalierly, but that they soon learned
that it was worse than useless to attempt such a course with a man whose magnificent physical
and intellectual bearing won the admiration of all who met him.

He now began a career of great professional distinction, and took a place at the Boston bar
even more conspicuous than his friends had anticipated-- that of an equal of the most famous
of its members. His cases called him before the Massachusetts Supreme Court, the Circuit Court
of the United States, and the United States Supreme Court. Among the first cases which came
to him on his retirement from political life was the Goodridge Robbery Case, the argument in
which was addressed to the jury at the term of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
held at Ipswich in April, 1817.

The singularly dramatic story of the prosecutor, the almost universal belief in the guilt of
the accused, both by the public and by the members of the Essex bar, and the impossibility
of accounting for the motive (self-robbery) assumed by the defence, make this exhibition of
Mr. Webster's "acute, penetrating, and terrifying" power of cross- examination,--by which such
a complicated and ingenious story was unravelled,--one of the most memorable in the history of the

Massachusetts bar. It is a model of close, simple, unadorned argument, adapted to the minds
of the jurymen. In it there are no attempts to carry the jury off their feet by lofty appeals
to their sense of justice, nor to cover the weak points in the case by fine oratory. The oft-repeated,
"It is for the jury to determine," illustrates Mr. Webster's respect for the common sense of
the jurymen before him and his reliance upon evidence to win the case. The following are the
facts relating to the case:--Major Goodridge of Bangor, Maine, professed to have been robbed
of a large sum of money at nine o'clock on the night of Dec. 19, 1816, while travelling on
horseback, near the bridge between Exeter and Newburyport. In the encounter with the robbers
he received a pistol wound in his left hand; he was then dragged from his horse into a field,
beaten until insensible, and robbed. On recovering, he procured the assistance of several persons,
and with a lantern returned to the place of the robbery and found his watch and some papers.
The next day he went to Newburyport, and remained ill for several weeks, suffering from delirium
caused by the shock. When he recovered he set about the discovery of the robbers. His story
seemed so probable that he had the sympathy of all the country-folk. He at once charged with
the crime Levi and Laban Kenniston, two poor men, who lived in an obscure part of the town
of Newmarket, New Hampshire, and finding some of his money (which he had previously marked)
in their cellar, he had them arrested, and held for trial. By and by a few of the people began
to doubt the story of Goodridge; this led him to renewed efforts, and he arrested the toll
gatherer, Mr. Pearson, in whose house, by the aid of a conjurer, he found some of his money.
On examination by the magistrate, Pearson was discharged. It now became necessary to find some
accomplice of the Kennistons, and he arrested one Taber of Boston, whom he had seen (he said)
on his way up, and from whom he had obtained his information against the Kennistons. In Taber's
house was found some of the money; he was accordingly bound over for trial with the Kennistons.
As none of these men lived near the scene of the robbery, Mr. Jackman, who, soon after the
robbery, had gone to New York, was arrested, his house searched, and some of the money found
in the garret. The guilt of these men seemed so conclusive that no eminent member of the Essex
bar would undertake their defence. A few of those who mistrusted Goodridge determined to send
to Suffolk County for counsel.

Mr. Webster had been well known in New Hampshire, and his services were at once secured; without
having time to examine any of the details of the case--as he had arrived at Ipswich on the
night before the trial--he at once undertook the defence of the Kennistons and secured their
acquittal. The indictment against Taber was nol prossed. Later, he defended Jackman and secured
his acquittal. Mr. Pearson brought action against Goodridge for malicious prosecution, and
was awarded $2000, but Goodridge took the poor debtor's oath and left the State.

Cf. Curtis's Life of Webster, Ch. VIII.; Everett's Memoir of Webster, in Vol. I. of Webster's
Works.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DARTMOUTH COLLEGE CASE.

March, 1818.

Within a year after the defence of the Kennistons, Mr. Webster was called upon to defend his
Alma Mater against the acts of the Legislature of his native State.

The case was one of the most interesting ever argued before the Supreme Court of the United
States, because there were involved in it certain constitutional questions which had never
been tested. "Mr. Webster by his management of this case," says Edward Everett, "took the lead
in establishing what might almost be called a new school of constitutional law." Not until
within a few years has the complete history of the case been accessible. In 1879, a volume
of "Dartmouth College Causes" was published by Mr. John M. Shirley, and in it we have, for
the first time, a clear statement of all the points relating to the origin and development
of the case.

Dartmouth College was originally a charity school, and was founded by Eleazor Wheelock at Lebanon,
Connecticut, in 1754. Afterwards private subscriptions were solicited in England, and the Earl
of Dartmouth was a large donor and became one of the trustees. The site was soon moved to Hanover,
New Hampshire, where large grants of land had been made by the proprietors. It was chartered
by the Crown in 1769, and was created a perpetual corporation, with Dr. Wheelock as founder
and President; he was empowered to name his own successor subject to the approval of the trustees,
to whom was given power to fill vacancies in their own body and to make laws for the College
subject to the Crown.

It seems that in his early days Dr. Wheelock had a controversy on religious matters with Dr.
Bellamy. These men were graduates of Yale; the former was a Presbyterian, and the latter a
Congregationalist. This religious war was carried on by the successors of these men, the son
of Dr. Wheelock, and President of the College, and a pupil of Dr. Bellamy, who had been elected
a trustee; it soon, however, became a political contest between factions of the trustees, one
of which objected to what it called the "family dynasty." In 1809 this faction became a majority
and opposed the other so vigorously that in 1815 the Wheelock party set forth its case in a
lengthy pamphlet. Much ink was shed upon both sides as a result. Wheelock then sent a memorial
to the Legislature charging the trustees with violation of trust and religious intolerance,
and prayed for an investigation by a committee of the Legislature. The trustees were Federalists
and Congregationalists, the ruling power in State and Church. Mr. Mason, Mr. Webster's old
antagonist at the New Hampshire bar, was secured as counsel for the trustees. The Wheelock
party made advances to Mr. Webster, but he saw that the case was fast assuming a political
tone, and he declined the offer. Contrary to Mr. Mason's advice, the trustees removed President
Wheelock, and appointed Rev. Francis Brown in his place. As a result all the Democrats and
all religious orders, other than the Congregational, united against the trustees--and the political
die was cast.

At the next election the Democrats carried the State, and the Governor in his message took
occasion to declare against the trustees. The Legislature, in June, 1816, passed an act to
reorganize the College, and under this law the new trustees were chosen; thus the College became
a State institution. Woodward, the Secretary of the old board, had been removed, and became
the Secretary of the newly constituted board. Suit was brought against him by the old board,
for the College seal and other property, and the case in charge of Mr. Mason and Judge Smith
came up for trial in May, 1817; it was argued and then went over to the September term of the
same year at Exeter. It was at this stage of the proceedings that Mr. Webster joined the counsel
for the College. He made the closing argument of such force and pathos as to draw tears from
the crowd in the court-room. The decision was against the College.

In Mr. Mason's brief we find that there were three points made against the Acts of the Legislature:
(1) that they were not within the power of that body; (2) that they violated the Constitution
of New Hampshire; and (3) that they violated the Constitution of the United States, or the
right of private contracts. The third point was not, however, pressed by the counsel, and was
not considered as very important; they based their case mostly upon the first point: that the
College was founded by private parties, for special purposes, and that any quarrel of the trustees
was a question for the courts to settle, and not for the Legislature. When it was decided against
them, they removed the case to the Supreme Court of the United States on this one point, that
the acts impaired the obligation of contracts. The friends of the College now desired Mr. Webster
to take entire charge of the case; he consented, and selected as his assistant, Mr. Hopkinson,
of Philadelphia. Mr. Holmes of Maine and Mr. Wirt conducted the defence.

The case was heard on March 10, 1818, and was opened by Mr. Webster. With the notes and minutes
of the previous counsel Mr. Webster was familiar, and he said that the credit of the legal
points and theories he set forth was due to them; he was only the arranger and reciter of what
they had prepared. Mr. Webster had a remarkable power of selecting and using the material of
other men, but he was always ready to give them the credit due.

With a skill and judgment which Chief Justice Marshall said he never saw equalled, Mr. Webster
outlined the question at issue, and by his marvellous adroitness in arranging, and clearness
in presenting the facts, together with that wealth of legal and historical illustration with
which he was always so well endowed, he seemed to carry with him every man in the court-room.
Such was the ease, grace, and fascination of his argument, that Justice Story, who sat, pen
in hand, to take notes, was completely absorbed and forgot his pen and paper.

[1]P. 58, l. 15. I. Here, the argument being ended, Mr. Webster stood still for some time before
the court, while every eye was fixed upon him, and then addressing the Chief Justice, he proceeded
with that noble peroration which has become one of the masterpieces of eloquence, and which
is an expansion of the closing argument which he delivered at the previous trial in New Hampshire.
This does not appear in the printed argument; I have added it from the report of Dr. Goodrich.

[2]P. 59, l. 5. 1. I give the beautiful description which Dr. Goodrich wrote to Mr. Choate
in 1853. "Here the feelings, which he had thus far succeeded in keeping down, broke forth.
His lips quivered; his firm cheeks trembled with emotion; his eyes were filled with tears;
his voice choked, and he seemed struggling to the utmost simply to gain that mastery over himself
which might save him from an unmanly burst of feeling. I will not attempt to give you the few
broken words of tenderness in which he went on to speak of his attachment for the college.
The whole seemed to be mingled throughout with recollections of father, mother, brother, and
all the privations and trials through which he had made his way into life. Every one saw that
it was wholly unpremeditated, a pressure on his heart, which sought relief in words and tears."
The court-room during these two or three minutes presented an extraordinary spectacle. Chief
Justice Marshall, with his tall and gaunt figure, bent over as if to catch the slightest whisper,
the deep furrows of his cheek expanded with emotion, and his eyes suffused with tears; Mr.
Justice Washington at his side, with his small and emaciated frame, and countenance more like
marble than I ever saw on any other human being--leaning forward with an eager troubled look;
and the remainder of the Court at the two extremities, pressing, as it were, toward a single
point, while the audience below were wrapping themselves around in closer folds beneath the
bench, to catch each look and every feature of the speaker's face. If a painter could give
us the scene on canvas,--those forms and countenances, and Daniel Webster as he there stood
in their midst,--it would be one of the most touching pictures in the history of eloquence.
One thing it taught me, that the pathetic depends not merely on the words uttered, but still
more on the estimate we put upon him who utters them. There was not one among the strong-minded
men of that assembly who could think it unmanly to weep, when he saw standing before him the
man who had made such an argument, melted into the tenderness of a child. Mr. Webster had now
recovered his composure, and, fixing his keen eye on the Chief Justice, in that deep tone with
which he sometimes thrilled the heart of an audience, continued."[3] L. 10. 2. When Mr. Webster
sat down, there was a stillness as of death in the court-room, and when the audience had slowly
recovered itself the replies of the opposing counsel were made, but seemed weak indeed in comparison
to what had just been heard. On the conclusion of the arguments, the Chief Justice announced
that the Court could not agree, and that the case must be continued to the next term. During
the interim, the utmost effort was used by the friends of the College, the press, and the Federalists,
to bring the matter before the public, and to impress the judges with the condition of the
public mind. The defence prepared to renew the contest, and able counsel was secured. At the
next term, however, the Chief Justice ruled that the Acts of the Legislature were void, as
they impaired the right of private contract. Of this argument Mr. Justice Story said: "For
the first hour we listened with perfect astonishment; for the second hour with perfect delight;
and for the third hour with perfect conviction."

Mr. Lodge says: "From the day when it was announced, to the present time, the Doctrine of Marshall
in the Dartmouth College Case has continued to exert an enormous influence."

After the trial Mr. Hopkinson wrote to the President of the College and said: "I would have
an inscription over the door of your building: 'Founded by Eleazor Wheelock, Refounded by Daniel
Webster.'"

Cf. Curtis's Life of Webster, Ch. VIII.; Lodge's Webster, Ch. III.; Everett's Memoir, in Vol.
I. of Webster's Works; Shirley's Dartmouth College Causes; Correspondence of Webster, Vol.
I., pp. 266-70; Magruder's Life of John Marshall.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST SETTLEMENT OF NEW ENGLAND.

December, 1820.

The "Old Colony Club," formed for social intercourse in 1769, was the first to celebrate Forefathers'
Day. Although the club was dissolved in 1773, the anniversary celebrations were continued until
1780; between this time and 1820, when the "Pilgrim Society" was founded, they were held with
but few interruptions.

The foundation of the "Pilgrim Society" in 1820 gave a new impetus to the celebrations, and
in that year Mr. Webster was chosen to give the address.

[1]P. 64, l. 17. 1. The allusion is to the painting by Sargent; it was presented by him to
the Society in 1824.

[2]L. 22. 2. Cf. Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society.

[3]L. 30. 3. Cf. the report of the Pilgrim Society on the correct date of the landing of the
Pilgrims. The 21st is now considered to be the date.

[4]P. 66, l. 31. 1. Cf. Herodotus, Ch. VI., S 109.

[5]P. 70, l. 23. 1. Cf. "The Start from Delfshaven," by Rev. D. Van Pelt, in the New England
Magazine, November, 1891. For a through treatment of the whole subject read Chapter II., "The
Puritan Exodus" in Beginnings of New England, by John Fiske.

[6]P. 77, l. 13. 1. Cf. Beginnings of New England, by John Fiske, pp. 12-20, "The Roman Method
of Nation-Making."

[7]P. 81, l. 18. 1. Cf. Beginnings of New England, pp. 20-49, "The English Method of Nation-Making."

[8]P. 82, l. 30. 1. Cf. Hutchinson's History, Vol. II., App. I. "The men who wrote in the cabin
of the Mayflower the first charter of freedom, were a little band of protestants against every
form of injustice and tyranny. The leaven of their principles made possible the Declaration
of Independence, liberated the slaves, and founded the free Commonwealths which form the Republic
of the United States."--C. M. DEPEW, Columbian oration.

[9]P. 83, l. 15. 1. Cf. Germanic Origin of New England Towns, H. B. Adams.

[10]P. 108, l. 7. 1. Cf. Cicero's Oratio pro Flacco, S 7.

[11]L. 29. 2. The first free public school established by law in Plymouth Colony was in 1670.

[12]P. 111, l. 17. 1. Cf. Beginnings of New England, p. 110, "Founding of Harvard College."
Lowell's "Harvard Anniversary."

In 1647 the Colony of Massachusetts Bay passed the law requiring every town of one hundred
families to set up a grammar school which should prepare youth for the university.

If Mr. Webster by his handling of the Dartmouth College Case founded a new school of constitutional
law, by the Plymouth Oration he founded a new school of oratory. This field of occasional oratory
was a new and peculiar one for him. He had never before spoken upon a great historical subject
demanding not only wealth of imagination, but the peculiar quality of mind and heart which
unites dignity and depth of thought with ease and grace of manner. But he was equal to the
task. The simplicity and beauty of the thought, the grand and inspiring manner of presentation,
gave evidence of commanding genius, and gave Mr. Webster a place in the front rank of orators
and stylists.

"I never saw him," says Mr. Ticknor, "when he seemed to me to be more conscious of his own
powers, or to have a more true and natural enjoyment from their possession."

John Adams, who had heard Pitt and Fox, Burke and Sheridan, says: "It is the effort of a great
mind, richly stored with every species of information. If there be an American who can read
it without tears, I am not that American. Mr. Burke is no longer entitled to the praise--the
most consummate orator of modern times. What can I say of what regards myself? To my humble
name 'Exegisti monumentum are perennius.' The oration ought to be read at the end of every
century."

"It is doubtful," says Edward Everett, "whether any extra-professional literary effort by a
public man has attained equal celebrity."

Cf. Curtis's Life of Webster, Ch. IX.; Lodge's Webster, Ch. IV.; De Tocqueville's Democracy
in America, Vol. I.; Whipple's American Literature, "Webster as a Master of English Style";
Bancroft's History of the United States, Vol. I., Chs. XII., XIII., XIV.; Burke's Orations
on the American War, edited by A. J. George; Fiske's Beginnings of New England.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BUNKER HILL MONUMENT.

June, 1825.

As early as 1776, the Massachusetts Lodge of Masons, over which General Warren had presided,
asked the Government of Massachusetts for permission to take up his remains, which were buried
on the hill the day after the battle, and bury them with the usual solemnities. The request
was granted on condition that the government of the colony should be permitted to erect a monument
to his memory.

The ceremonies of burial were performed, but no steps were taken to build the monument. General
Warren was, at the time of his death, Grand Master of the Masonic Lodges of America, and as
nothing had been done toward erecting a memorial, King Solomon's Lodge of Charlestown voted
to erect a monument. The land was purchased, and a monument dedicated by the Lodge Dec. 2,
1794. It was a wooden pillar of Tuscan order, eighteen feet high, raised on a pedestal ten
feet in height. The pillar was surmounted by a gilt urn. An appropriate inscription was placed
on the south side of the pedestal.

The half-century from the date of the battle was at hand, and, despite a resolution of Congress
and the efforts of a committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts, no suitable monument had
been erected by the people. It was then that, at the suggestion of William Tudor, the matter
was taken up in earnest and an association was formed known as the Bunker Hill Monument Association.
Ground was broken for the monument June 7, 1825. On the morning of the 17th of June, 1825,
the ceremonies of laying the corner- stone of the monument took place. It was a typical June
day, and thousands flocked to see the pageant and to hear the greatest orator in the land.

The procession started from the State House at ten o'clock. The military led the van. About
two hundred veterans of the Revolution rode in carriages, and among them were forty survivors
of the battle. Some wore their old uniform, others various decorations of their service, and
some bore the scars of honorable wounds. Following the patriots came the Monument Association,
and then the Masonic fraternity to the number of thousands. Then came the noble Frenchman,
Lafayette, the admiration of all eyes. Following him were numerous societies with banners and
music. The head of the procession touched Charlestown Bridge before the rear had left the State
House, and the march was a continual ovation. Arriving at Breed's Hill, the Grand Master of
the Masons, Lafayette, and the President of the Monument Association laid the corner-stone,
and then moved to the spacious amphitheatre on the northern side of the hill, where the address
was delivered by Mr. Webster.

[1]P. 122, l. 7. 1. An account of the voyage of the emigrants to the Maryland Colony is given
by the report of Father White, written soon after the landing at St. Mary's. The original in
Latin is still preserved by the Jesuits at Rome.

The Ark and the Dove occupy the same place of interest in the memory of the descendants of
the colony as does the Mayflower with us.

[2]L. 18. 2. Mr. Webster was at this time President of the Monument Association.

[3]P. 125, l. 13. 1. Even the poetical nature of Webster would not have been equal to the conception,
that within the century the number would reach sixty million.

[4]L. 16. 2. "The first railroad on the continent was constructed for the purpose of accelerating
the erection of this monument."--EVERETT.

[5]P. 127, l. 15. 1. The allusion is, of course, to the ships about the Charlestown Navy Yard,
which is located at the base of Breed's Hill. [6]L. 21. 2. This magnificent address to the
"Venerable Men" was composed while Mr. Webster was fishing in Marshpee brook.

[7]P. 128, l. 4. 1. Milton's Paradise Lost, V.

[8]L. 17. 2. Cf. Bancroft's History of the United States, Vol. IV., p. 133. A prelude to Warren's
patriotism at Bunker Hill is well illustrated in his oration at the old South Meeting House,
commemorating the Boston Massacre; in the presence of British soldiers he said: "Our streets
are again filled with armed men, our harbour is crowded with ships of war; but these cannot
intimidate us; my fellow-citizens, you will maintain your rights or perish in the generous
struggle."

[9]P. 130, l. 9. 1. Cf. Burke's Orations on the American War, edited by A. J. George.

[10]P. 131, l. 32. 1. Virgil's Aeneid, VI. 726. Compare Burke's use of this same quotation
in his speech on American Taxation, page 13, line 13. Edited by A. J. George.

[11]P. 133, l. 9. 1. Cf. Bancroft's History of the United States, Vol. IV., Ch. XIV.

[12]L. 22. 2. General Lafayette had arranged his progress through the other States so that
he might be present on the 17th.

[13]P. 140, l. 22. 1. Homer's Iliad, Book XVII.

[14]P. 141, l. 13. 1. Cf. account of Webster's speech on the Revolution in Greece, made on
the 19th of January, 1824, in Everett's Memoir, Vol. I. of Webster's Works.

Great as the Plymouth Oration was acknowledged by all to be, the Bunker Hill Address was a
distinct advance upon it, both in the scope of the ideas and in the skill with which they are
wrought into an organic whole. It is more compact, more picturesque, more vigorous, more finished.
In this field of oratory he probably has never had any equal in the English- speaking world.

Mr. Everett said of the Address: "From such an orator as Mr. Webster, on such a platform, on
such a theme, in the flower of his age, and the maturity of his faculties, discoursing upon
an occasion of transcendent interest, and kindling with the enthusiasm of the day and the spot,
it might well be regarded as an intellectual treat of the highest order. Happy the eyes that
saw that most glorious gathering! Happy the ears that heard that heart-stirring strain!"

Lafayette wrote to Webster on the 28th of December, 1825, from La Grange, saying: "Your Bunker
Hill has been translated into French, and other languages, to the very great profit of European
readers."

Mr. Hillard, in his Eulogy on Webster, says: "His occasional discourses rise above the rest
of their class, as the Bunker Hill Monument soars above the objects around it."

Mr. Choate, in his address to the students of Dartmouth College in 1853, in that sublime paragraph
in which he reviews the history of oratory and contrasts the eloquence of despair with the
eloquence of hope, says: "Let the downward age of America find its orators, and poets, and
artists, to erect its spirit, or grace and soothe its dying; be it ours to go up with Webster
to the rock, the monument, the capitol, and bid the distant generations hail."

Cf. Curtis's Life of Webster, Ch. XI.; Everett's Memoir, in Vol. I. of Webster's Works; Lodge's
Webster, Ch. IV.; Memorial of Webster; Mr. Hillard's and Mr. Choate's Address; J. Fiske's The
American Revolution.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE REPLY TO HAYNE.

January, 1830.

The third period of Mr. Webster's life and work may be said to begin with his new honor--his
election to the United States Senate in 1827, and his changed attitude toward the question
of the tariff as seen in his great speech on the tariff of 1828.

To understand Mr. Webster's position on the question of the tariff, one must remember that
he insisted upon the principle that the question of the tariff was purely a business question,
and that it was to be determined by the conditions affecting business. Up to this time Webster
had opposed Protection, but now as the business of New England required assistance, he boldly
stood forth as the champion of a Protective Tariff. It was in connection with the tariff legislation
of 1816, 1824, and 1828 that the monster Nullification--carefully disguised until 1830--had
its birth. In this year it was found stalking abroad, and in the halls of Congress menacing
the bulwark of our liberties--the Constitution of the country. It fell to the lot of Mr. Webster
to grapple with this monster and to strangle it in his giant grasp.

On the 29th of December, 1829, Senator Foot of Connecticut moved a resolution in regard to
the Public Lands, and a long and weary discussion followed until Mr. Hayne, a Senator from
South Carolina, on June 19, 1830, took part and introduced a new element into the discussion
by making an elaborate attack on the New England States. Mr. Webster had taken no special interest
in the question, and on the day in which Mr. Hayne began his speech he was engaged in the Supreme
Court, but came into the Senate in season to hear the closing paragraphs. Thinking that such
an attack upon New England required a reply, Mr. Webster at once rose, but yielded to a motion
to adjourn. On the next day, the 20th, Mr. Webster proceeded with his reply, in which he showed
the absurdity of Hayne's accusations and by which he completely shattered his whole elaborate
argument. There was hardly an allusion in Mr. Webster's speech to the question of the tariff
as it concerned South Carolina, but so aroused was Hayne by Webster's defence of New England,
that on the following day he spoke a second time and in a tone of even greater severity and
bitterness than that which marked his previous speech; he indulged in personal allusion to
Mr. Webster, and strove to bring odium upon him and the State which he represented; he openly
espoused the cause of Nullification and declared war upon the tariff. Before he concluded the
Senate adjourned until the 25th, when he completed his speech; Mr. Webster immediately rose
to reply, but as it was late yielded to a motion to adjourn. Mr. Hayne's speech had caused
the greatest alarm throughout the North; many were afraid that it was unanswerable. This was
an evidence that the true nature of the Constitution was not thoroughly understood. "It is
a critical moment," said Mr. Bell of New Hampshire to Mr. Webster on the morning of the 26th,
"and it is time, it is high time, that the people of this country should know what this Constitution
is." "Then," said Mr. Webster, "by the blessing of Heaven, they shall learn, this day, before
the sun goes down, what I understand it to be." With this utterance upon his lips, he entered
the Senate Chamber, which was already crowded. Every seat on the floor and in the galleries
was occupied; the House of Representatives was deserted; the lobbies and staircases were packed.
The vast audience was composed, on the one hand, of those who feared and trembled lest the
rushing tide of hostility to the Constitution and the Union should sweep over the country;
and on the other, of those who believed that New England had no champion strong enough to stand
in the breach. This scene in the Senate Chamber is rivalled only by that in the House of Commons,
when Burke, in 1774, stood forth as the defender of the American colonies. Such was the anxiety
to hear the speech that all the ordinary preliminaries of senatorial action were postponed,
and Mr. Webster began his "Second Speech on Foot's Resolution," better known as "The Reply
to Hayne."

[1]P. 146, l. 10. 1. Mr. Webster rose with great calmness, and in the majesty of that personal
presence which could cause the English navvy to shout as he saw him, "By Jove, there goes a
king!" with a confidence in his own resources which was the result of experience, in a clear,
calm, and firm tone pronounced this magnificent exordium which was such a piece of consummate
art that its effect was electric; all who feared, and all who hated, knew that he was master
of the situation.

[ 2] P. 147, l. 27. 1. When on the 21st Mr. Chambers asked that there be a delay to enable
Mr. Webster, who had engagements out of the house, to be present, Mr. Hayne was unwilling to
grant the request, saying that the gentleman (Mr. Webster) has discharged his fire in the presence
of the Senate, and he wanted an opportunity to return it. Mr. Webster said, "Let the discussion
proceed: I am ready now to receive the gentleman's fire."

[3] P. 149, l. 8. 1. The notes, covering only five sheets of ordinary letter paper, from which
Webster developed the entire speech of seventy pages, contain no hint of the exordium, but
begin with

"No man hurt. If his 'rankling' is relieved, glad of it."

"I have no 'rankling' fear, anger, consciousness of refutation."

"No 'rankling,' original, or received--bow not strong enough."

[4]L. 12. 2. Mr. Benton.

[5]L. 27. 3. Mr. Webster's preparation for this reply lay in the nature of his thought and
reading from his first entrance into public life, and especially from the nature of the constitutional
questions which he has argued before the Supreme Court of the United States.

[6]P. 152, l. 1. 1. Should not this be "more"?

[7]L. 24. 2. This was a political cry raised against President Adams, who was elected by the
House of Representatives. Clay had been a candidate, and because Adams gave him a seat in his
Cabinet, a cry went up that they had made a bargain, by which Mr. Clay's friends were to vote
for Adams in the House, and in return Clay was to receive a Cabinet position. This was a piece
of political clap-trap. Cf. American Politics, Johnston, Ch. XI.

[8]P. 155, l. 5. 1. If there had been a coalition and it was killed, it was killed by Calhoun,
who threw all his influence against Adams and for Jackson. But at the time of this speech Calhoun
was treated somewhat cavalierly by Jackson, and had not much reward in party succession.

[9]P. 157, l. 13. 1. "The Missouri Compromise." Cf. American Politics, Johnston, Ch. VIII.

[10]P. 162, l. 22. 1. This Convention of 1814 was composed of men of the old Federal party,
strongly opposed to war with Great Britain. Cf. American Politics, Johnston, Ch. VIII.

[11]P. 170, l. 3. 1. The "South Carolina Canal & Railroad Company" had on Jan. 9, 1830, asked
Mr. Webster to present its claims to government assistance.

[12]P. 179, l. 5. 1. Calhoun, Vice-President, and President of Senate.

[13]P. 180, l. 5. 1. Mr. Forsyth.

[14]L. 25. 2. Cf. Calhoun's speech in the House of Representatives in April, 1816.

[15]P. 182, l. 6. 1. Mr. McDuffie.

[16]P. 186, l. 12. 1. Letter of the Federal Convention to the Congress of the Confederation
transmitting the plan of the Constitution.

[17]P. 188, l. 4. 1. Cf. Lodge's Webster, Ch. VI.

[18]P. 197, l. 1. 1. President Jackson, who had been an avowed Federalist all his life.

[19]L. 15. 2. A Portuguese prince, who led the revolutionists against the constitutional government.

[20]P. 198, l. 1. 1. A body of Federalists in Essex County, Massachusetts, strongly opposing
the Embargo of 1807, and the War of 1812.

[21]P. 199, l. 24. 1. After the passage of the Tariff of 1828, the legislature of South Carolina
set forth a "Protest" asserting the principle of Nullification.

[22]P. 203, l. 29. 1. "At the conclusion of this paragraph there was scarcely a dry eye in
the Senate, the Massachusetts men shed tears like girls," Reminiscence of Congress, March.

[23]P. 205, l. 28. 1. A toast proposed at a Democratic dinner, April 30, 1830, in New York,
in honor of Jefferson's birthday.

[24]P. 212, l. 16. 1. Senator Hillhouse of Connecticut.

[25]P. 214, l. 8. 1. The purpose of this Embargo was to retaliate on both Great Britain and
France. In the commercial war waged by those two countries, the foreign trade of the United
States was cut off. The Embargo fell with crushing weight upon New England.

[26]P. 227, l. 11. 1. Paradise Lost, Bk. I., l. 540.

[27]P. 228, l. 9. 1. The leader of the Whiskey Rebellion in Pennsylvania.

[28]P. 234, l. 9. 1. This celebrated peroration was entirely unpremeditated, there is no allusion
to it in the "notes" of Mr. Webster. Mr. March says, "The exulting rush of feeling with which
he went through the peroration threw a glow over his countenance like inspiration. Eye, brow,
each feature, every line of the face, seemed touched as with celestial fire.... His voice penetrated
every recess or corner of the Senate,--penetrated even the anterooms and stairways." Mr. Webster
himself said: "I never spoke in the presence of an audience so eager and so sympathetic." Mr.
Everett says: "Of the effectiveness of Mr. Webster's manner in many parts, it would be in vain
to attempt to give any one not present the faintest idea. It has been my fortune to hear some
of the ablest speeches of the greatest living orators on both sides of the water, but I must
confess I never heard anything which so completely realized my conception of what Demosthenes
was when he delivered the Oration for the Crown."

Mr. Lodge in his excellent review of the speech says: "The speech as a whole has all the qualities
which made Mr. Webster a great orator. An analysis of the Reply to Hayne, therefore, gives
us all the conditions necessary to forming a correct idea of Mr. Webster's eloquence, of its
characteristics, and its value." Cf. Ch. VI., Webster, American Statesman Series. This book
should be a constant companion of the student while reading these selections.

Dr. Francis Lieber wrote: "To test Webster's oratory, I read a portion of my favorite speeches
of Demosthenes, and then read, always aloud, parts of Webster; then returned to the Athenian;
and Webster stood the test." As a result of this great effort, Mr. Webster was overwhelmed
with congratulations from all parts of the land. The speech was the universal theme of conversation,
and there was a general demand for the printed copy. Probably no speech in history has had
so many readers as the Reply to Hayne.

Cf. Healey's historical painting of the scene of this great debate, in Faneuil Hall; Curtis's
Life of Webster, Ch. XVI.; Everett's Memoir, Vol. I. of Webster's Works; Correspondence of
Webster, Vol. I., p. 488.

         *       *       *       *       *

THE MURDER OF CAPTAIN JOSEPH WHITE.

August, 1830.

Almost immediately after the Reply to Hayne, Mr. Webster was engaged with the Attorney-General
of Massachusetts in one of the most remarkable criminal cases on record, and on August 3d made
the argument in the trial of John Francis Knapp for the murder of Captain Joseph White.

The following is a summary of the facts: On the night of the 6th of April, 1830, the town of
Salem was visited by a desperado who entered the house of Joseph White, a wealthy and respectable
citizen, and murdered him in his bed. The citizens formed a vigilance committee and worked
without avail until there came a rumor that a prisoner in the New Bedford jail knew something
of the affair. He was accordingly brought up before the grand jury, and on his testimony Richard
Crowningshield, of Danvers, was indicted. A few weeks later Captain Joseph Knapp, a shipmaster
of good character, received a strange note from Belfast, Maine, which was signed by Charles
Grant, Jr. This note threatened exposure unless money was forwarded. Knapp could not understand
it. He showed it to his sons, Francis and Joseph, Jr., who resided in Wenham. The wife of the
latter was a niece of the late Mr. White, and was his housekeeper prior to the murder. When
Joseph saw the letter he said it contained trash, and told his father to hand it to the vigilance
committee. When they received the letter they sent to Belfast to find the writer. This proved
to be one Palmer, who had been in state prison and who was intimate with Crowningshield. He
said he saw, on the 2nd of April, Frank Knapp and a man, Allen, in company with Crowningshield,
and that he heard the latter say that Frank Knapp wished them to kill Mr. White, and that Joseph
Knapp would pay them one thousand dollars.

After the murder the Knapps reported that, on the 27th of April, they had been attacked by
robbers on their way from Salem to Wenham. The purpose of this will be seen in what follows.
On the testimony of Palmer the Knapps were held for investigation, and on the third day Joseph
made a full confession of the murder and of the fabrication of the robbery story. He had found
that Mr. White intended to leave his (Knapp's) wife but fifteen thousand dollars by will, and
he thought that if he died intestate she would come in for one-half of the estate, as the sole
representative of Mr. White's sister. Under this impression he determined to destroy the will.
Frank agreed to hire the assassin, and he (Joseph) was to pay one thousand dollars for the
deed. Crowningshield was hired; he entered the house by a window and committed the murder.
So cool was he that, as he said, he paused to feel the pulse of the old man to be sure he was
dead. Frank was waiting the issue, while Joseph, who had got the will, was in Wenham at his
home. When Crowningshield heard that the Knapps were in custody, and that Joseph had confessed,
he committed suicide in his cell.

At a special term of the Supreme Court at Salem, July 20th, indictments for murder were found
against Francis Knapp as principal, and Joseph Knapp and George Crowningshield (a companion
of Richard) as accessories. The trial of Francis took place August 3d, with Mr. Franklin Dexter
and Mr. W. H. Gardner for the defence, and Mr. Webster assisting the Attorney-General in the
prosecution.

[1]P. 239, l. 13. 1. Mr. Lodge says that this account of the murder and analysis of the workings
of a mind, haunted with the remembrance of the horrid crime, must be placed among the very
finest masterpieces of modern oratory. "I have studied this famous exordium," he says, "with
extreme care, and I have sought diligently in the works of all the great modern orators, and
of some of the ancient as well, for similar passages of higher merit. My quest has been in vain."

[2]P. 241, l. 23. 1. Mr. Webster's appearance for the prosecution gave rise to some complaints
on the part of the defence, who intimated that he was in the interest of Mr. Stephen White,
a residuary legatee of the murdered man. The fact was that both the Attorney-General and the
Solicitor-General were old men, and had asked for Mr. Webster's assistance.

[3]P. 243, l. 20. 1. Chief Justice Parker.

[4]P. 248, l. 10. 1. Mr. Webster's presentation of the evidence is omitted. Cf. Webster's Complete
Works, Vol. VI., p. 61.

Knapp was convicted as principal and sentenced to death. At the November term Joseph was convicted
as accessory and sentenced to share the same fate. George Crowningshield proved an alibi, and
was acquitted. The argument in the Goodridge case stands in marked contrast to this; and it
must be conceded that, as a presentation of the law and the evidence, with no attempt to work
upon the feelings of the jurymen, it is a work of higher quality. As a specimen of eloquence,
of dramatic setting forth of the horror of such a deed, of the experiences of the criminal,
and of the certainty that "murder will out," the argument has no equal in the language.

For a remarkable analysis of Mr. Webster's career as a lawyer, see Rufus Choate's address before
the students of Dartmouth College in 1853 in "Memorial of Daniel Webster from the City of Boston."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSTITUTION NOT A COMPACT.

February, 1833.

Mr. Webster had intimated in his Reply to Hayne that South Carolina was playing a high game.
There were some at that time who thought that he had sounded the note of alarm in too loud
a strain; but when in November, 1832, the State Convention, assembled at Columbia, South Carolina,
adopted an ordinance declaring the revenue laws of the United States null and void, the voice
of the croakers ceased to be heard in the general excitement that filled the country. The Legislature
assembled on the 27th, and the governor in his message said that "the die has been at last
cast," and that the Legislature was called upon to make "such enactments as would make it utterly
impossible to collect within our limits the duties imposed by the protective tariffs thus nullified."
The Legislature passed acts providing that any one who should attempt to collect the revenue
should be punished, and made it lawful to use the military force of the State to resist any
attempt of the United States to enforce the tariff laws. Mr. Webster now had a very difficult
and delicate task before him; he was bound to criticise the general tone of the administration
of Jackson, for he believed that it had not met the needs of the country, and yet he was equally
bound not to put himself in such antagonism as to prevent him from aiding the administration,
should his aid be sought, against those who were determined to destroy the laws of the land.
In the then impending presidental canvass he took the ground that President Jackson was in
hostility to the idea of protection, and that therefore he could not be safely trusted with
the executive power. But President Jackson, whatever had been his record on the question of
the tariff, showed that he had no desire to shirk his duty, for he at once issued a proclamation,
which embodied the principles maintained by Mr. Webster in his Reply to Hayne, and warned the
authorities of South Carolina that all opposition to the laws of the United States would be
put down. He thus served notice that treason was not to win by default of the President. Calhoun
had resigned the vice-presidency and had taken his seat in the Senate, and it was known that
such an act meant the attempt to raise the flag of nullification high in the Senate-chamber.

Mr. Webster was on his way to Washington when he heard of the prompt and decisive action of
the President. At Philadelphia he met Mr. Clay, who told him that he had a plan for settling
the difficulty by gradually reducing the tariff, and for levying duties "without regard to
protection or encouragement of any branch of domestic industry." When Mr. Clay brought in his
bill, it was not so strong as the one he had submitted to Mr. Webster a short time before,
but yet Mr. Webster could not think of taking any step at such a time that would look like
concession. The first thing to be done was to enforce the existing laws and sustain the administration
by suitable legislation. There was to be no surrender of constitutional power. At the opening
of the session the President asked Congress for the power to use the land and naval forces
if necessary to enforce the laws. The committee to which the message was referred reported
what is known as the "Force Bill," which granted the President the powers asked for. Some of
the senators doubted that the President had such "daring effrontery" as to ask for such power.
Mr. Webster said, "I will tell you gentlemen that the President has had the 'daring effrontery'
to ask for these powers, no matter how high may be the offence."

President Jackson had used very strong language against the leaders of Nullification, and this
made many of the (Southern) administration senators hostile to the measures of the "Force Bill."
When it was found that the President had called for the assistance of Mr. Webster, Mr. Calhoun
became very uneasy, and at once sought for Mr. Clay, who promised to bring in his bill for
reducing the tariff. On the 8th of February, Mr. Clay introduced the measure and claimed that
its purpose was to save the tariff, which he considered to be in imminent danger. Mr. Webster,
as was expected, opposed the bill and introduced a series of resolutions. On the two following
days he was prevented from addressing the Senate on his resolutions because of the discussion
of the "Force Bill," when Mr. Calhoun took the opportunity to expound the theory and practice
of Nullification. The speech was in Mr. Calhoun's very best style of close, logical argument,
with but little that made for eloquence. Calhoun was a master of logical method, and such was
his skill in dovetailing together the elements of his speculations that he was a powerful antagonist.
He had waited until most of the senators in opposition had spoken and then broke upon them
and tore their arguments into shreds. It was an able supplement to the speech of Hayne and
was likely to produce quite as much alarm, unless its position could be turned. Here were sown
the seeds of secession which grew into that frightful civil war. By establishing the principle
of the Union as but a confederacy of States the right of secession was assured.

Mr. Webster felt the importance of the occasion; he saw clearly the direction in which such
appeals were sure to lead the people, and he at once determined to throw himself into the conflict.
The doctrines which he had maintained in the Reply to Hayne had now taken strong hold of the
people of the Central and Western States, and of many of the strongest public men of both parties;
it was from this vantage ground that (on the 16th) he began his great speech known as "The
Constitution not a Compact between Sovereign States."

[1]P. 275, l. 9. 1. Mr. Rives.

[2]P. 326, l. 27. 1. "The vital question went to the great popular jury. The world knows what
the verdict was, and will never forget that it was largely due to the splendid eloquence of
Daniel Webster when he defended the cause of nationality against the slave-holding separatists
of South Carolina."--HENRY CABOT LODGE.

"Whoever," says Mr. Curtis, "would understand that theory of the Constitution of the United
States which regards it as the enactment of a fundamental law must go to this speech to find
the best and clearest exposition."

"Then and there," says Dr. Hudson, "it was that real battles of the Union were fought and won.
For the cause had to be tried in the courts of legislative reason before it could come to trial
on field of battle."

This speech is much less rhetorical than the Reply to Hayne. The subject was not a new one,
nor was the condition of the public mind so feverish as in 1830; consequently the case required
not so much an appeal to the emotions as to the reason. It has always been considered as the
most compact, close, logical, and convincing of all Mr. Webster's speeches. The people have
relied upon it from that day to this to teach them the principles of the Constitution: in it
they find the origin, the history, and the purpose of our great national fabric. By this speech
Webster placed himself upon the highest pinnacle of fame, and added to his title of first orator
that of the greatest statesman of his time, winning the proud distinction of "Expounder, Commentator,
and Defender of the Constitution." On the 12th of October, 1835, the citizens of Boston presented
to Mr. Webster a massive silver vase in testimony of their gratitude for his services in defence
of the Constitution against South Carolina Nullification.

It contained the following inscription:--

            PRESENTED TO
           DANIEL WEBSTER,
   The Defender of the Constitution,
     BY THE CITIZENS OF BOSTON,
           Oct. 12, 1835.

In reply to the address of presentation Mr. Webster said:--

"In one respect, Gentlemen, your present oppresses me. It assigns to me a character of which
I feel I am not worthy. 'The Defender of the Constitution' is a title quite too high for me.
He who shall prove himself the ablest among the able men of the country, he who shall serve
it longest among those who may serve it long, he on whose labors all the stars of benignant
fortune shall shed their selectest influence, will have praise enough, and reward enough, if,
at the end of his political and earthly career, though that career may have been as bright
as the track of the sun across the sky, the marble under which he sleeps, and that much better
record, the grateful breasts of his living countrymen, shall pronounce him 'the Defender of
the Constitution.' It is enough for me, Gentlemen, to be connected, in the most humble manner,
with the defence and maintenance of this great wonder of modern times, and this certain wonder
of all future times. It is enough for me to stand in the ranks, and only to be counted as one
of its defenders."

Cf. Curtis's Life of Webster, Ch. XIX.; Lodge's Webster, Ch. VII.; Address of Dr. Hudson on
the Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of Daniel Webster, June 18, 1882.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPEECH AT SARATOGA.

August, 1840.

