Why Mr. Mowbray, with his acquired habits of frugality, thus destroyed a property which might
have produced a considerable income, no one could pretend to affirm. Some said that he remembered
his own early follies; and others, that he connected the buildings with the misfortunes of
his sister. The vulgar reported, that Lord Etherington's ghost had been seen in the ball-room,
and the learned talked of the association of ideas. But it all ended in this, that Mr. Mowbray
was independent enough to please himself, and that such was Mr. Mowbray's pleasure.

The little watering-place has returned to its primitive obscurity; and lions and lionesses,
with their several jackals, blue surtouts, and bluer stockings, fiddlers and dancers, painters
and amateurs, authors and critics, dispersed like pigeons by the demolition of a dovecot, have
sought other scenes of amusement and rehearsal, and have deserted ST. RONAN'S WELL.[II-12]

FOOTNOTE:

[II-12] Note III.--Meg Dods.

AUTHOR'S NOTES.

Note I., p. 202.

There were several instances of this dexterity, but especially those which occurred in the
celebrated case of Murdison and Millar, in 1773. These persons, a sheep-farmer and his shepherd,
settled in the vale of Tweed, commenced and carried on for some time an extensive system of
devastation on the flocks of their neighbours. A dog belonging to Millar was so well trained,
that he had only to show him during the day the parcel of sheep which he desired to have; and
when dismissed at night for the purpose, Yarrow went right to the pasture where the flock had
fed, and carried off the quantity shown him. He then drove them before him by the most secret
paths to Murdison's farm, where the dishonest master and servant were in readiness to receive
the booty. Two things were remarkable. In the first place, that if the dog, when thus dishonestly
employed, actually met his master, he observed great caution in recognising him, as if he had
been afraid of bringing him under suspicion; secondly, that he showed a distinct sense that
the illegal transactions in which he was engaged were not of a nature to endure daylight. The
sheep which he was directed to drive, were often reluctant to leave their own pastures, and
sometimes the intervention of rivers or other obstacles made their progress peculiarly difficult.
On such occasions, Yarrow continued his efforts to drive his plunder forward, until the day
began to dawn, a signal which, he conceived, rendered it necessary for him to desert his spoil,
and slink homeward by a circuitous road. It is generally said this accomplished dog was hanged
along with his master; but the truth is, he survived him long, in the service of a man in Leithen,
yet was said afterwards to have shown little of the wonderful instinct exhibited in the employment
of Millar.

Another instance of similar sagacity, a friend of mine discovered in a beautiful little spaniel,
which he had purchased from a dealer in the canine race. When he entered a shop, he was not
long in observing that his little companion made it a rule to follow at some interval, and
to estrange itself from his master so much as to appear totally unconnected with him. And when
he left the shop, it was the dog's custom to remain behind him till it could find an opportunity
of seizing a pair of gloves, or silk stockings, or some similar property, which it brought
to its master. The poor fellow probably saved its life by falling into the hands of an honest man.

Note II., p. 213.

The author has made an attempt in this character to draw a picture of what is too often seen,
a wretched being whose heart becomes hardened and spited at the world, in which she is doomed
to experience much misery and little sympathy. The system of compulsory charity by poor's rates,
of which the absolute necessity can hardly be questioned, has connected with it on both sides
some of the most odious and malevolent feelings that can agitate humanity. The quality of true
charity is not strained. Like that of mercy, of which, in a large sense, it may be accounted
a sister virtue, it blesses him that gives and him that takes. It awakens kindly feelings both
in the mind of the donor and in that of the relieved object. The giver and receiver are recommended
to each other by mutual feelings of good-will, and the pleasurable emotions connected with
the consciousness of a good action fix the deed in recollection of the one, while a sense of
gratitude renders it holy to the other. In the legal and compulsory assessment for the proclaimed
parish pauper, there is nothing of all this. The alms are extorted from an unwilling hand,
and a heart which desires the annihilation, rather than the relief, of the distressed object.
The object of charity, sensible of the ill-will with which the pittance is bestowed, seizes
on it as his right, not as a favour. The manner of conferring it being directly calculated
to hurt and disgust his feelings, he revenges himself by becoming impudent and clamorous. A
more odious picture, or more likely to deprave the feelings of those exposed to its influence,
can hardly be imagined; and yet to such a point have we been brought by an artificial system
of society, that we must either deny altogether the right of the poor to their just proportion
of the fruits of the earth, or afford them some means of subsistence out of them by the institution
of positive law.

Note III., p. 318.

Non omnis moriar. Saint Ronan's, since this veracious history was given to the public, has
revived as a sort of alias, or second title, to the very pleasant village of Inverleithen upon
Tweed, where there is a medicinal spring much frequented by visitors. Prizes for some of the
manly and athletic sports, common in the pastoral districts around, are competed for under
the title of the Saint Ronan's Games. Nay, Meg Dods has produced herself of late from obscurity
as authoress of a work on Cookery, of which, in justice to a lady who makes so distinguished
a figure as this excellent dame, we insert the title-page:

    "The Cook and Housewife's Manual: A Practical System of Modern
    Domestic Cookery and Family Management.

    --------'Cook, see all your sawces
    Be sharp and poynant in the palate, that they may
    Commend you: look to your roast and baked meats handsomely,
    And what new kickshaws and delicate made things.'

    BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.

    By Mistress Margaret Dods, of the Cleikum Inn, St. Ronan's."

Though it is rather unconnected with our immediate subject, we cannot help adding, that Mrs.
Dods has preserved the recipes of certain excellent old dishes which we would be loath should
fall into oblivion in our day; and in bearing this testimony, we protest that we are no way
biassed by the receipt of two bottles of excellent sauce for cold meat, which were sent to
us by the said Mrs. Dods, as a mark of her respect and regard, for which we return her our
unfeigned thanks, having found them capital.

EDITOR'S NOTES.

[II-A] p. 104. "Tietania." A little book on the art of tying the neckcloth, in the age of Brummel
and his "failures." Copies may occasionally be found on the bookstalls. It is not in the Abbotsford
Library.

[II-B] p. 151. "I first persuaded her to quit the path of duty." This remark of Tyrrel's is
one of the many surviving traces of the original plot.

[II-C] p. 220. "Master Stephen." A character of Ben Jonson's already referred to--he who wished
for a stool to be sad upon.

[II-D] p. 223. "A Canon of Strasburgh." Scott frequently refers, in accounts of the roof of
the hall of Abbotsford, which he blazoned with his quarterings, to his deficiency in the sixteen
necessary for a Canonry. Three shields, those connected with the Rutherfords of Hunthill, are
vacant, or rather are painted with clouds.

[II-E] p. 238. "One of Plutarch's heroes, if I mistake not." It was not a hero of Plutarch's,
but Pindar the poet, who was warned by Persephone that he had neglected to honour her by an ode.

[II-F] p. 254. "They can scarcely say worse of me than I deserve." In this remark of Clara's
we have another trace of the original plot, involving Clara's lapse from virtue. The whole
scene, with Mowbray's "You having been such as you own yourself," was made unintelligible by
Ballantyne's objection.

[II-G] p. 300. "A corbie messenger." It seems unlikely that the Scots had a legend like the
Greek one concerning the evil "corbie" or raven messenger to Apollo about his false lady-love,
but no other explanation suggests itself.

ANDREW LANG. December 1893.

APPENDIX.

[The following extract from the proof-sheets containing Scott's original conclusion of "St.
Ronan's Well" was sent to the Athenæum of Feb. 4, 1893, by Mr. J. M. Collyer. The proof-sheets
are in the possession of Mr. Archibald Constable. The scene, of which a few lines remain in
the authorised texts, is that of Hannah Irwin's Confession to Josiah Cargill. That Bulmer,
when he told you that a secret marriage was necessary to Miss Mowbray's honour, thought that
he was imposing on you.--But he told you a fatal truth, so far as concerned Clara. She had
indeed fallen, but Bulmer was not her seducer--knew nothing of the truth of what he so strongly
asseverated."

"He was not her lover, then?--And how came he, then, to press to marry her?--Or, how came you"----

"Hear me--but question not.--Bulmer had gained the advantage over me which he pretended to
have had over Clara. From that moment my companion's virtue became at once the object of my
envy and hatred: yet, so innocent were the lovers, that, despite of the various arts which
I used to entrap them, they remained guiltless until the fatal evening when Clara met Tyrrel
for the last time ere he removed from the neighbourhood--and then the devil and Hannah Irwin
triumphed. Much there was of remorse--much of resolutions of separation until the Church should
unite them--but these only forwarded my machinations--for I was determined she should wed Bulmer,
not Tyrrel."

"Wretch!" exclaimed the clergyman: "and had you not, then, done enough? Why did you expose
the paramour of one brother to become the wife of another?"

She paused, and answered sullenly, "I had my reasons--Bulmer had treated me with scorn. He
told me plainly that he used me but as a stepping-stone to his own purposes: and that these
finally centred in wedding Clara. I was resolved he should wed her, and take with her infamy
and misery to his bed."

"This is too horrible," said Cargill, endeavouring, with a trembling hand, to make minutes
of her confession.

"Ay," said the sick woman, "but I contended with a master of the game, who played me stratagem
for stratagem.

A', all.

Abbey, the sanctuary for debtors at Holyrood Abbey.

Ae, one.

Aff, off.

Ail, to prevent.

Ainsell, oneself.

An, if.

Ance, once.

Ane, one.

Asper, a Turkish coin of small value.

"Athole brose," honey mixed with whisky, used in the Highlands sometimes as a luxury, sometimes
as a specific for a cold.

Aught, eight.

Awa, away.

Bairn, a child.

Baith, both.

Barmy-brained, giddy, feather-brained.

Baron-bailie, a kind of magistrate, the baron's deputy in a burgh of barony.

Basket-beagles, beagles that chased a hare slipped from a basket.

Bauld, bold.

Bawbee, a halfpenny.

Bedral, a sexton.

Begum, an Indian princess, or lady of high rank.

Bidden, remained.

Blawort, a bluebottle.

Blunt, money.

Bodle, a small copper coin.

"Bow Street runners," London detectives.

Braid, broad.

Brank, span.

Briquet, a steel with which to strike a light.

Brose, oatmeal over which boiling water has been poured.

