The moment's silence intensified her eagerness and hope; he felt them burning in her eyes,
and would not meet their prayer again. But she could not wait, and her hand, fluttering restlessly
upon his shoulder, crept up to touch his cheek, thrilling him unbearably, as if each sensitive
finger-tip repeated her urgency. He must yield if she kept it there. He snatched her hand to
his lips and dropped it quickly, nerving himself to speak steadily, lest he should betray irresolution--so
covering the tenderness which would have atoned for the positive refusal.

"Marina, a Venetian may not demean himself to ask forgiveness of the Holy Father in a matter
wherein Venice hath not sinned--but Rome."

"Marco, my beloved, if Venice were mistaken! If thou and I might save her!"

Her voice broke in a sob of agony, and her husband gathered her in his arms, struggling not
to weep with her. "Carina--carinissima!" he repeated soothingly; yet, as she grew calmer, brought
despair again.

"Nay, Marina, no loyal senator may question the decision of his government; thou presumest
too far; but thine illness and thy suffering have made thee irresponsible."

Then, grieving so to cross her in her weakness and pain, with all his tenderness in his voice,
he hastened to atone for the firmness of the declaration which had sufficiently proved his
staunchness.

"Marina, thou and I--were we not Giustiniani--more than all other Venetians owe our loyalty
in time of stress; and for love of thee, beloved, shall Venice find me faithful in her need--I
and all my household true, and all my fortune hers in service, if need should be--as thus I
vowed, before them all, on that day when the Senate gave thee to me and made thee the sweetest
patrician lady in all the land. We will not fail them, beloved!"

He clasped her close, holding her firmly, as if to infuse her with his faith. "All blessings
are for those who do the right, Marina; we need not fear."

Never had she seen his face so inspired, so masterful, so tender; it was a revelation. The
whole of their beautiful love story was written on it, mastering all the traditions of Venice,
yet binding him more closely to the service of his country.

For a moment she looked at him awestruck, longing to give the submission which would bring
her rest; it was not strange that she loved him so; oh, if she might but acquiesce in his view
of right! Madre Beatissima, life was hard, and the way of right was the way of the cross--how
many holy women had found it so! One hand stole to the little crucifix beneath her robe and
pressed its roughened surfaces into her breast, for she must not place the sweetness of this
earthly love before the duty of the heavenly one. "Santa Maria, save me!" she prayed, while,
only for one moment, she drooped her head to his shoulder and nestled close, that he should
know her heart was his, whatever came--whatever came.

Was it strange that her agony threatened her reason? In that one little moment of comfort,
which she yearned to hold free from suffering that its remembrance might uphold her, the powerful
vision of the Tintoretto's awful Judgment rose beckoningly before her. It was the doom of Venice,
and she alone--so impotent--recognized the danger.

The vision pursued her night and day. The River of the Wrath of God, leaping up to meet those
frowning skies of His most just anger, and Venice--superb, disdainful--overwhelmed between;
the cloud of innumerable souls, tortured and writhing, fleeing from before the face of the
Holy One, no more than a mere film of whirling atoms, falling--falling into an abyss of horrors--the
dim, doomed shapes wearing faces that had smiled into hers--With an inarticulate moan she hid
her face on her husband's shoulder.

"Marco," she whispered with an effort, for her strength was spent, "not though it were a vision,
revealed by the Madonna San Donato, thou wouldest take me to Rome? Not though I could make
thee comprehend what it means for me--and thee?"

She waited breathlessly for his answer, with pulses that seemed to pause for the momentous
decision, not daring to look at him lest she should falter and retract; for never again would
she ask this question, which, even now, she had put in the form of an assertion.

"Nay, Marina, the Madonna asketh naught of thee but that which gracious women must give--submission
to their princes--in which, beloved, thou seemest to fail; and duty to thy Church, in which
thou, having ever been before all others, art now neglectful. For from the altar of your home
no Masses ascend, no fragrance of flowers nor praise. Venice is more faithful in that which
she commands, and we, carina, may not longer disregard her will without suspicion of disloyalty.
Since Fra Francesco is no longer here, I will apply for some new ministrant. Hast thou a wish
in this choice of a priest for the service of our oratory?"

She had started away from him almost resentfully, that he could charge her--whose fealty to
her Church was killing her--with neglect of any duty it imposed; but, out of her larger love,
she understood him better than he knew her, and she forgave him and nestled back again. He
had not been brought up to place the requirements of the Church before the commands of Venice,--few
patricians were in those days,--she could not make him realize the awful restrictions of that
ban which, by her strict teaching, made it impossible for the faithful to worship in Venice
while it remained unwithdrawn; yet he could count it as non-existent!

She was glad that she had felt the tumult of his heart while he answered her so calmly; it
made her realize what it cost him to deny her prayer; it assured her that a staunch sense of
duty underlay his strength; pitilessly it assured her also that he would not change, and the
very firmness which came between them made her love and admire him the more. In the midst of
her pain she was proud that he also had conscience on his side, however misguided it seemed
to her. Why did the good Madonna permit these differences? How was it possible for Marco, with
his quick, intellectual grasp, not to comprehend the truth--not to see the terrors that Venice
had brought upon herself! He was suffering also, but only because she suffered; never would
he understand her agony; the rudest, crudest weight of the cross she must lift alone, weary
and spent with the bitter struggle.

She summoned all her strength to answer him as though the words were easily spoken. "Since
it is not Fra Francesco, whom we love," she said, "I know no other; choose thou, my Marco."

His face flushed with pleasure that her resistance seemed conquered. "And when we have found
our confessor, shall we go together--thou and the little one and I," he asked brightly, "to
the Island of Sant' Elenà, which thou lovest, and we ourselves bring flowers to deck our chapel?
For it hath been long since Mass was said therein."

"Yes, Marco mio," she answered to the love in his voice, struggling to repress every accent
of dissent; for in her heart she told herself that the chapel of the palazzo Giustiniani was
his, not hers, since their faith was divided; "and for me only, not for him, to worship there
is sin. And the beautiful day together, alone on the island with the flowers--it is the gift
of the Holy Mother to help me endure!"

And her husband, as he left her, carried with him a smile that satisfied him.

