A large and increasing number of books has also been purchased from booksellers in New Zealand.
Particularly in the case of novels, it is of advantage to inspect the book before buying a copy.

For many years books purchased in England were rebound uniformly in morocco. In 1886, in an
attempt to reduce costs, the Committee decided that works costing less than 10s. were to be
sent out in the ordinary cloth binding. The more expensive and important works still continued
to be rebound in leather, but as time went on this too was discontinued and all books were
dispatched in the publisher's binding.

                       THE AIMS OF THE LIBRARY

What does the General Assembly Library exist for and what does it set out to do? Its primary
function is to assist members to obtain information needed for the performance of their parliamentary
duties and also to make available to them books, periodicals, etc., which may better equip
them as men of affairs.

From the first the Library set out to obtain books on matters and topics likely to be the subject
of legislation and on matters likely to be of interest to members. As funds became available
and the Library grew it was also possible to purchase books for recreational reading, but this
has always been a lesser aim.

The necessity for obtaining books on matters likely to be subject to legislation has directly
led to the acquisition of books relating to New Zealand. The principal subject of legislation
before the New Zealand Parliament is New Zealand, and in order to give the information required
it is essential to have as complete a collection as possible on New Zealand.

The advent of the Liberal Government in 1891, and later of the Labour Government, led to wide
extension of the field of legislation and consequently of the stock of the Library. Today the
Library is strong in official publications, in economics, politics, administration, law, and
statistics; there are good collections in history, biography, and travel, and also an excellent
reference collection.

The staff have always given members of Parliament every possible service, but the scope has
tended to grow. Last century members tended to do more of their own research, and relied on
the staff to locate books rather than individual items of information. The desire for this
last service grew and attempts were made to provide it.

To do so, however, required considerable advances in staff and technique. It involved the indexing
of periodicals, often attempted by the staff which was rarely in a position to do it well and
to continue it. Today much of this work is done either commercially or cooperatively and, although
the results are not available quickly, the staff is freed for other work.

Today the Library is working towards the time when it can give a reference and research service
similar to that of the House of Commons Library, or to imitate in a smaller way that of the
Library of Congress in Washington. Such a service requires intelligent, well trained staff
who are capable of locating and organising information into a form where it can be readily
understood and used.

The Library is doing an increasing amount of such work, but it has not the staff to do all
that is required of it. I am sure, however, that before the story of the Library is much longer,
it will be giving a fuller service.

In this connection there is one aspect of the work that should not be passed over--the indexing
of newspapers. Newspapers have always been important to the Library, giving as they do so much
current history and opinion. Only in recent years has it been possible to index certain papers
fully, and so provide quickly necessary references.

                            BOOKS AND MEN

