"I have heard something of his quick temper: that he was indignant at this or that man's behavior,
but never that his anger outlasted for a moment the mischief done or threatened to the good
cause, or ever stood in the way of his hearty co-operation with the offenders, when they returned
to the path of public duty. I look upon him as a type of the American republican. A man of
the people, in strictly private life, girt with family ties; an active and intelligent manufacturer
and merchant, enlightened enough to see a citizen's interest in the public affairs, and virtuous
enough to obey to the uttermost the truth he saw,--he became, in the most natural manner, an
indispensable power in the State. Without such vital support as he, and such as he, brought
to the government, where would that government be! When one remembers his incessant service;
his journeys and residences in many States; the societies he worked with; the councils in which
he sat; the wide correspondence, presently enlarged by printed circulars, then by newspapers
established wholly or partly at his own cost; the useful suggestions; the celerity with which
his purpose took form; and his immovable convictions,--I think this single will was worth to
the cause ten thousand ordinary partisans, well-disposed enough, but of feebler and interrupted
action.

"These interests, which he passionately adopted, inevitably led him into personal communication
with patriotic persons holding the same views,-- with two Presidents, with members of Congress,
with officers of the government and of the army, and with leading people everywhere. He had
been always a man of simple tastes, and through all his years devoted to the growing details
of his prospering manufactory. But this sudden association now with the leaders of parties
and persons of pronounced power and influence in the nation, and the broad hospitality which
brought them about his board at his own house, or in New York, or in Washington, never altered
one feature of his face, one trait in his manners. There he sat in the council, a simple, resolute
Republican, an enthusiast only in his love of freedom and the good of men; with no pride of
opinion, and with this distinction, that, if he could not bring his associates to adopt his
measure, he accepted with entire sweetness the next best measure which could secure their assent.
But these public benefits were purchased at a severe cost. For a year or two, the most affectionate
and domestic of men became almost a stranger in his beautiful home. And it was too plain that
the excessive toil and anxieties into which his ardent spirit led him overtasked his strength
and wore out prematurely his constitution. It is sad that such a life should end prematurely;
but when I consider that he lived long enough to see with his own eyes the salvation of his
country, to which he had given all his heart; that he did not know an idle day; was never called
to suffer under the decays and loss of his powers, or to see that others were waiting for his
place and privilege, but lived while he lived, and beheld his work prosper for the joy and
benefit of all mankind,--I count him happy among men.

"Almost I am ready to say to these mourners, Be not too proud in your grief, when you remember
that there is not a town in the remote State of Kansas that will not weep with you as at the
loss of its founder; not a Southern State in which the freedmen will not learn to-day from
their preachers that one of their most efficient benefactors has departed, and will cover his
memory with benedictions; and that, after all his efforts to serve men without appearing to
do so, there is hardly a man in this country worth knowing who does not hold his name in exceptional
honor. And there is to my mind somewhat so absolute in the action of a good man, that we do
not, in thinking of him, so much as make any question of the future. For the Spirit of the
Universe seems to say: 'He has done well; is not that saying all?'"

This monograph was printed in the Boston Commonwealth, April 20, 1867, and has never been republished.
It is exceptional in Emerson's writings as the account of a man with whom he was personally
and intimately acquainted.

ELIZUR WRIGHT

The influence of Ohio in the United States of America during the past half century may be compared
to that of Virginia during the first forty years of the Republic. All of our Presidents, elected
as such since 1860, have come from Ohio, or adjacent territory. Cleveland came from beyond
the Alleghenies, and Lincoln was born on the southern side of the Ohio River. General Grant
and General Sherman came from Ohio; and so did Salmon P. Chase, and John Brown, of Harper's
Perry celebrity. Chase gave the country the inestimable blessing of a national currency; and
even the Virginians admitted that John Brown was a very remarkable person.

The fathers of these men conquered the wilderness and brought up their sons to a sturdy, vigorous
manliness, which resembles the colonial culture of Franklin, Adams, and Washington.

Sitting in the same school-house with John Brown, in 1816, was a boy named Elizur Wright who,
like Brown, came from Connecticut, and to whom the people of this country are also somewhat
under obligation. Every widow and orphan in the United States who receives the benefit of a
life- insurance policy owes a blessing to Elizur Wright, who was the first to establish life
insurance in America on a strong foundation, and whose reports on that subject, made during
his long term as Insurance Commissioner for Massachusetts, have formed a sort of constitution
by which the policy of all life-insurance companies is still guided. His name deserves a place
beside those of Horace Mann and William Lloyd Garrison.

Apart from this, his biography is one of the most interesting, one of the most picturesque,
when compared with those of the many brilliant men of his time. His grandfather was a sea captain,
and his father, who was also named Elizur, was a farmer in Canaan, Connecticut. His mother's
name was Clarissa Richards, and he was born on the twelfth of February, 1804. In the spring
of 1810 the family moved to Talmage, Ohio, making the journey in a two-horse carriage with
an ox-team to transport their household goods. Their progress was necessarily slow, and it
was nearly six weeks before they reached Talmage, as it was generally necessary to camp at
night by the way-side. This romantic journey, the building of their log- cabin, the clearing
of the forest, and above all his solitary watches in the maple-orchard (where he might perhaps
be attacked by wolves), made a deep poetic impression on young Elizur, and furnished him with
a store of pleasant memories in after life.

They lived at first in a log-cabin, and afterwards his father built a square frame-house with
a piazza and veranda in front, which is still standing. The school where Elizur, Jr., met John
Brown was at a long distance for a boy to walk. He does not appear to have made friends with
John, remarkably alike as they were in veracity, earnestness, and adherence to principle; but
John was somewhat the elder, and two or three years among boys counts for more than ten among
grown people. In later life, however, Mr. Wright told an interesting anecdote of young Brown,
which runs as follows:

John was the best-behaved boy in the school, and for this reason the teacher selected him to
occupy a vacant place beside the girls. Some other boys were jealous of this, and after calling
Brown a milk-sop, attacked him with snowballs. John proved himself as good a fighter then as
he did afterwards at Black Jack. He made two or three snow-balls, rushed in at close quarters,
and fought with such energy that he finally drove all the boys before him.

Elizur Wright may have taken note of this affair, and it served him when he entered Yale College
in 1822. He had never heard of hazing, and when the Sophomores came to his room to tease him,
he received them with true Western cordiality. He found out his mistake quickly enough, and
at the first insult he rose in wrath and ordered them out with such furious looks that they
concluded it was best to go.

He helped to support himself during his college course not only by teaching in winter, but
by making fires, waiting on table, and ringing the recitation bell. In spite of these menial
services, he was popular in his class and had a number of aristocratic friends,--among them
Philip Van Rensselaer. He was one of the best scholars in his class,--first in mathematics,
and so fluent in Greek that to the end of his life he could read it with ease.

He did not wait for graduation. In May, 1826, the Groton Academy suddenly wanted a teacher,
and Elizur Wright was invited to take the position. The college faculty sent him his degree
a month later,--which they might not have done if they had known how little he cared for it.
In his school at Groton was a pretty, dark-eyed girl named Susan Clark, who, for two years
previously, had been at school with Margaret Fuller and was very well acquainted with her.
Elizur Wright became interested in Miss Clark, and three years later they were married.

One day, while he was living at Groton, Mr. Wright went by the Boston stage to Fitchburg, and
on his return held a long conversation with a fellow-passenger, a tall, slender young man with
aquiline features, who gave his name as Ralph Waldo Emerson. Mr. Wright found him an exceedingly
interesting gentleman, but of so fragile an appearance that it seemed impossible that he should
live many years.

From this time the paths of these two young scholars diverged. Emerson became an idealist and
an ethical reformer. Elizur Wright became a realist and a political reformer. Realism seems
to belong to the soil of Ohio.

Ill health came next in turn, a natural consequence of his severe life at Yale College. He
was obliged to leave his school, and for an occupation he circulated tracts for the American
Congregational Society, making a stipulation, however, which was characteristic of him, that
he should not distribute any that ran contrary to his convictions. In this itinerant fashion
he became sufficiently recuperated at the end of a year to marry Miss Clark, September 13,
1829, and accept the professorship of mathematics at Western Reserve College, at Hudson, Ohio.
There he remained till 1833, strengthening himself in the repose of matrimony for the conflict
that lay before him,--a conflict that every justice-loving man feels that he will have to face
at one time or another.

