Mr. KEITH FLEMING'S romance, Can such Things be? or, the Weird of the Beresfords,--no relation
to Lord CHARLES of that ilk,--starts, and will make the reader start too, with a very creepy
idea. The story would have been a genuine weird and eerie one but for the continual twaddling
interruptions about "spookikal" research and metaphysical problems, which, however, the experienced
skipper, who knows the chart, can easily avoid after the first two or three bumps, and even
the inexperienced reader will be able, after an hour or two, to hop from point to point like
a robin from twig to twig. But skipping and hopping is wearying, and the story is too long,
and so we become familiar with the ghost, and we all know what the fatal consequence of familiarity
is. The repetitions of the Spook's appearance are monotonous. Had The Weird been condensed
like milk in tins, or essenced like Liebig, and been presented to the public as a story in
two numbers of Blackwood (always such an appropriate title for a Magazine full of mysterious
stories,--BLACK WOOD so like Black Forest) or Macmillan, or Cornhill (where, somehow, a ghost-story
always reads uncommonly well), this romance would have created a great sensation. As it is,
it doesn't, at least not much. BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S MORAL MUSIC-HALL DRAMAS.

Our present Drama (No. VI.) represents an attempt to illustrate upon the Music-hall Stage the
eternal truth that race will tell in the long run, despite--but, on second thoughts, it does
not quite prove that, though it certainly shows the unerring accuracy of parental--at least,
that is not exactly its tendency, either; and the fact is that Mr. Punch is more than a little
mixed himself as to the precise theory which it is designed to enforce. He hopes, however,
that, as a realistic study of Patrician life and manners, it will possess charms for a democratic
audience.

COMING OF AGE.

A Grand Social Psychological Comedy-Drama, in One Act.

DRAMATIS PERSONÆ.

The Earl of Burntalmond. The Countess of Burntalmond    (his wife). Robert Henry Viscount Bullsaye
(their son and heir). The Lady Rose Caramel          (niece to the Earl). Horehound.      
}   (Travelling as "The Celebrated Combination Mrs. Horehound.       }   Korffdropp Troupe,"
in their refined and Coltsfoot Horehound.  }        elegant Drawing-room Entertainment.) Tenantry.

SCENE--The Great Quadrangle of Hardbake Castle; banners, mottoes, decorations, &c. On the steps,
R., the Earl, supported by his wife, son, and niece, is discovered in the act of concluding
a speech to six tenantry, who display all the enthusiasm that is reasonably to be expected
at ninepence a night.

The Earl (patting Lord BULLSAYE'S shoulder). I might say more, Gentlemen, in praise of my dear
son, Lord BULLSAYE, here--I might dwell on his extreme sweetness, his strongly marked character,
the variety of his tastes, and the singular attraction he has for children of all ages--but
I forbear. I will merely announce that on this day--the day he has selected for attaining his
majority--he has gratified us all by plighting troth to his cousin, the Lady ROSE CARAMEL,
with whose dulcet and clinging disposition he has always possessed the greatest natural affinity.
[Cheers.

Lord Bullsaye (aside to Lady R.). Ah, ROSE, would such happiness could last! But my heart misgives
me strangely--why, I know not.

Lady R. Say not so, dear BULLSAYE--have you not just rendered me the happiest little Patrician
in the whole peerage?

Lord B. 'Tis true--and yet, and yet--pooh, let me snatch the present hour! [Snatches it.

The Earl. And now, let the Revels commence.

Enter the Korffdropp Troupe, who give their marvellous Entertainment, entitled, "The Three
Surprise Packets;" after which--

Horehound. This will conclude the first portion of our Entertainment, Lords, Ladies, and Gentlemen;
and, while my wife and pardner retires to change her costoom for the Second Part, I should
be glad of the hoppertoonity of a short pussonal hexplanation with the noble Herl on my right.
[Exit Mrs. HOREHOUND.

The Earl (graciously). I will hear you, fellow! (Aside.) Strange how familiar his features
seem to me!

Horeh. The fact is, your Lordship's celebrating the coming of hage of the wrong heir. (Sensation--i.e.,
the six tenantry shift from one leg to the other, and murmur feebly.) Oh, I can prove it. Twenty-one
years ago--(slow music)--I was in your Lordship's service as gamekeeper, 'ead whip, and hextry
waiter. My son and yours was born the selfsame day, and my hold woman was selected to hact
as foster-mother to the youthful lord. Well--(tells a long, and not entirely original, story;
marvellous resemblance between infants, only distinguishable by green and magenta bows, &c.,
&c.) Soon after, your Lordship discharged me at a moment's notice----

The Earl (haughtily). I did, upon discovering that you were in the habit of surreptitiously
carrying off kitchen-stuff, concealed within your umbrella. But proceed with your narration.

Horeh. I swore to be avenged, and so--(common form again; the shifted bows)--consequently,
as a moment's reflection will convince you, the young man on the steps, in the button-'ole
and tall 'at, is my lawful son, while the real Viscount is--(presenting COLTSFOOT, who advances
modestly on his hands)--'ere! [Renewed sensation.

The Earl. This is indeed a startling piece of intelligence. (To Lord B.) And so, Sir, it appears
that your whole life has been one consistent imposition--a gilded lie?

Lord B. Let my youth and inexperience at the time, Sir, plead as my best excuse!

The E. Nothing can excuse the fact that you--you, a low-born son of the people, have monopolised
the training, the tenderness and education, which were the due of your Patrician foster-brother.
(To COLTSFOOT.) Approach, my injured, long-lost boy, and tell me how I may atone for these
years of injustice and neglect!

Coltsf. Well, Guv'nor, if you could send out for a pot o' four arf, it 'ud be a beginning, like.

The E. You shall have every luxury that befits your rank, but first remove that incongruous garb.

Colts, (to Lord B.). These 'ere togs belong to you now, young feller, and I reckon exchange
ain't no robbery.

Lord B. (with emotion, to Countess). Mother, can you endure to behold your son in tights and
spangles on the very day of his majority?

Countess (coldly). On the contrary, it is my wish to see him attired as soon as possible, in
a more appropriate costume.

Lord B. (to Lady R.). ROSE, you, at least, have not changed? Tell me you will love me still--even
on the precarious summit of an acrobat's pole!

Lady Rose (scornfully). Really the presumptuous familiarity of the lower orders is perfectly
appalling!

The Earl (to Countess, as Lord B. and COLTSFOOT retire to exchange costumes). At last, PAULINE,
I understand why I could never feel towards BULLSAYE the affection of a parent. Often have
I reproached myself for a coldness I could not overcome.

Countess. And I too! Nature was too strong for us. But, oh, the joy of recovering our son--of
finding him so strong, so supple, so agile. Never yet has our line boasted an heir who can
feed himself from a fork strapped on to his dexter heel!

The E. (with emotion). Our beloved, boneless boy!

[Re-enter COLTSFOOT in modern dress, and Lord B. in tights.

Colts. Don't I look slap-up--O.K. and no mistake? Oh, I am 'aving a beano!

All. What easy gaiety, and unforced animation!

The E. My dear boy, let me present you to your fiancée. ROSE, my love, this is your legitimate
lover.

Colts. Oh, all right, I've no objections--on'y there'll be ructions with the young woman in
the tight-rope line as I've been keepin' comp'ny with--that's all!

The E. Your foster-brother will act as your substitute there. (Proudly.) My son must make no
mésalliance!

Rose (timidly). And, if it would give you any pleasure, I'm sure I could soon learn the tight-rope!

Colts. Not at your time o' life. Miss, and besides, 'ang it, now I'm a lord, I can't have my
wife doin' nothing low!

The E. Spoken like a true BURNTALMOND! And now let the revels re-commence. [Re-enter Mrs. HOREHOUND.

Horeh. (to Lord B.). Now then, stoopid, tumble, can't you--what are you 'ere for?

Lord B. (to the Earl). Since it is your command, I obey, though it is ill tumbling with a heavy
heart!

[Turns head over heels laboriously.

Colts. Call that a somersault? 'Ere, 'old my 'at (giving tall hat to Lady R.) I'll show yer
'ow to do a turn.

[Throws a triple somersault.

All. What condescension! How his aristocratic superiority is betrayed, even in competition
with those to the manner born!

Mrs. Horeh. (still in ignorance of the transformation). Halt! I have kept silence till now--even
from my husband, but the time has come when I must speak. Think you that if he were indeed
a lord, he could turn such somersaults as those? No--no. I will reveal all. (Tells same old
story--except that she herself from ambitious motives transposed the infants' bows.) Now, do
with me what you will!

Horeh. Confusion, so my ill-judged action did but redress the wrong I designed to effect!

The E. (annoyed). This is a serious matter, reflecting as it does upon the legitimacy of my
lately recovered son. What proof have you, woman, of your preposterous allegation?

Mrs. H. None, my lord,--but these--

[Exhibits two faded bunches of ribbon.

The E. I cannot resist such overwhelming evidence, fight against it as I may.

Lord B. (triumphantly). And so--oh, Father, Mother, ROSE--dear, dear ROSE--I am no acrobat
after all!

The E. (sternly). Would you were anything half so serviceable to the community, Sir! I have
no superstitious reverence for rank, and am, I trust, sufficiently enlightened to discern worth
and merit--even beneath the spangled vest of the humblest acrobat. Your foster-brother, brief
as our acquaintance has been, has already endeared himself to all hearts, while you have borne
a trifling reverse of fortune with sullen discontent and conspicuous incapacity. He has perfected
himself in a lofty and distinguished profession during years spent by you, Sir, in idly cumbering
the earth of Eton and Oxford. Shall I allow him to suffer by a purely accidental coincidence?
Never! I owe him reparation, and it shall be paid to the uttermost penny. From this day, I
adopt him as my eldest son, and the heir to my earldom, and all other real and personal effects.
See, ROBERT HENRY, that you treat your foster-brother as your senior in future!

Coltsf. (to Lord B). Way-oh, ole matey, I don't bear no malice, I don't! Give us your dooks.
[Offering hand.

The C. Ah, BULLSAYE, try to be worthy of such generosity!

[Lord B. grasps COLTSFOOT'S hand in silence.

Lady Rose. And pray, understand that, whether Mr. COLTSFOOT be viscount or acrobat, it can
make no difference whatever to the disinterested affection with which I have lately learnt
to regard him.

[Gives her hand to COLTSFOOT, who squeezes it with ardour.

Coltsf. (pleasantly). Well, Father, Mother, your noble Herlship and Lady, foster-brother BULLSAYE,
and my pretty little sweetart 'ere, what do you all say to goin' inside and shunting a little
garbage, and shifting a drop or so of lotion, eh?

The E. A most sensible suggestion, my boy. Let us make these ancient walls the scene of the
blithest--ahem!--beano they have ever yet beheld!

    [Cheers from Tenantry, as the Earl leads the way into the Castle
    with Mrs. HOREHOUND, followed by HOREHOUND with the Countess
    and COLTSFOOT with Lady ROSE, Lord BULLSAYE, discomfited and
    abashed, entering last as Curtain falls.]

       *       *       *       *       *

KICKED!

(By the Foot of Clara Groomley.)

CHAPTER IV. AND LAST.

In the little sitting-room above his shop sat Mr. ASSID ROPES. It was the afternoon before
Christmas Day. He had generously allowed all his assistants to leave. "If anybody wants their
hair cut, or their hat ironed," he said, "I'll do it myself, and then they'll wish they hadn't."

Yet, when a customer rapped on the floor below, Mr. ROPES felt exceedingly angry.

"What do you want?" he called down the stairs.

"I want my hat ironed," said a clear, manly voice.

"Go away! Your hat doesn't want ironing. Go to bed!"

"I will not go away," said the clear, firm voice, "until you have attended to my hat--hat once,
if you please."

Mr. ROPES came grumbling down the stairs. For one moment he gazed at the man in the shop, and
then flung his arms round him and wept tears of joy.

"My dear old friend, CYRIL MUSH!" he exclaimed.

They had been boys together at Eton, and rowed in the Trinity boat together at Cambridge. Fate
had separated them.

In less than a minute they were talking over old times together in the little sitting-room
over the shop. CYRIL MUSH was delighted. "You can't charge an old friend anything for just
ironing his hat," he said, with his peculiarly winning smile.

Before Mr. ROPES could correct this impression, another voice was heard in the shop below.

"Can you come down for a minute--to oblige a lady?"

Mr. ROPES descended once more. In a minute he returned.

"Awfully sorry, MUSH, but I must go. I've got to shave a dead poodle, and the men are coming
to stuff it at nine o'clock to-night. It's for a lady--noblesse oblige, you know. I'll finish
your hat when I come back."

In a second he was gone. CYRIL MUSH replaced the lining in his hat, and placed it on his head.
He went out into the streets. He was wondering what poodle it was which Mr. ASSID ROPES had
gone to shave. Could it be the same? No, most certainly not. So of course it was the same.

In the meanwhile Mr. ROPES had arrived at the house, and had been ushered into the chamber
of death. The light was very bad, and he happened to cut the animal while engaged in shaving it.

"Very sorry, Sir," said Mr. ROPES, from force of habit, "but it's not my fault. You've got
a pimple there, and you jerked your head just as I was going over it. A little powder will
put that all right."

Suddenly it flashed across him that the poodle was not dead if the blood flowed. He rushed
out of the room, and found himself confronted by a handsome, wicked-looking man, of about thirty.

"Excuse me, Sir, but that poodle's not dead. It's in a trance. Just run down to the kitchen
and fetch me some brandy, some blankets, and some hot bricks, and I'll bring it round."

"The dog is dead, and in a very few hours he'll be stuffed," was the cruel reply. "You needn't
trouble to bring it round. If you've brought your tackle round, you can shave it."

"I've been shaving it--and that's how I know."

A door opened on the other side of the passage, and a fair young girl came out in tears and
a black dress.

"What's the matter, ALGERNON?" she said.

"It's nothing, ALICE. This idiot says that Tommy's not dead."

With one wild yell of joy, a yell that broke the gas-globes, and unlinked carriages at all
the principal London railway stations, ALICE SMITH fell senseless on the floor.

"Out you get!" exclaimed her cousin ALGERNON to Mr. ROPES. "If the dog is not dead, come back
in two hours, and prove it--otherwise it will be dead, and stuffed too."

"Now then," said ALGERNON, when Mr. ROPES had gone, "if Tommy Atkins is not dead, he soon will
be." He grasped his walking-stick, and tried the door of the room. It was locked. Mr. ROPES
had locked it, and taken the key!

"Aha!" he exclaimed. "Baffled! Baffled! Kindly turn the lime-light off the swooned maiden,
and throw it on to me. Sympathetic music from the violins, if you please."

       * * *

One hour had passed. Mr. ALKALOID, the photographer, had met Mr. MUSH. Mr. ALKALOID had come
from Ryde to London to get his hair singed. The two accidentally met Mr. ROPES as he was dashing
wildly down the street towards his own shop. In one minute all was explained. Mr. ALKALOID
had fetched his photographic apparatus, and the three were careering back to the house where
the poodle lay dead. But was he dead? You know he wasn't, as well as I do. What do you ask
such senseless questions for? "It's the only sure test," said ALKALOID. "If that dog's alive,
he'll wag his tail when I try to photograph him. I never knew it fail."

       * * *

Outside the door of that gorgeously-furnished room stood an excited group. ALGERNON, the villain,
was soliloquising. ALICE was explaining to CYRIL how he had dropped his note down the neck
of the wrong girl--who was also named SMITH--and how she had been compelled to believe him
unfaithful. Mr. ROPES was listening attentively at the key-hole, and CYRIL was kissing ALICE.

Within the room Mr. ALKALOID was photographing the dead poodle. (I call it dead, but of course
that doesn't humbug you.)

"Now then, we're ready," they heard Mr. ALKALOID say. "Don't stare. Just a natural, easy--now
then--thank you!"

There was dead silence within the room and without. Then the door opened, and Mr. ALKALOID
came out cheerfully.

"The poodle's dead all right," he said. "What you took to be blood, ROPES, was blacking off
your razor. You really ought not to strop them on your boot. I'll walk round to your shop with
you. I want my hair singed."

ALICE went into hysterics; ALGERNON swooned with joy; and CYRIL MUSH had a fit.

At the moment of going to press, they are all three still in the above condition. The dog,
in the meantime, has been accidentally stuffed with the stuffing intended for the stuffer's
Christmas goose. The goose was found, on carving, to be stuffed with several shilling shockers,
which had been intended to pad the poodle.

And to what better use could they have been put--especially if they were all like this?

       *       *       *       *       *

(ANNALS OF A QUIET NEIGHBOURHOOD.)

Daughter of the House (anxious to introduce Partners to each other). "IS YOUR CARD QUITE FULL,
MR. M'SAWNEY?" Mr. M'Sawney. "OH DEAR, NO! WHICH DANCE SHALL I GIVE YOU?"

       *       *       *       *       *

(OPENING OF SESSION, FEB. 11, 1890.)

       * * *

THE "SALUTE;" OR, TAKING DISTANCE.

    "When the assault is given in the presence of spectators, it is not
    uncommon to precede it by the Salute, which shows the scheme and
    various figures, as it were, of the attack and defence in a precise,
    ceremonious manner, and with the same kind of courtly ritual as that
    which distinguishes the minuet."--H. A. Colmore Dunn's "Fencing".

  There, standing face to face, foil in hand,
    Just out of lunging range they salute,
  Who anon, swordsman stark, old fencer grand,
    Must fight their duel out, foot to foot.
  Mere preliminary flourish, all of this;
    The punctilio of "form" without a fault;
  But soon the blades shall counter, clash, and twist,
                  In assault.

  The ritual of the rapier or the foil;
    Vastly pretty ceremonial parade.
  Merest preface to the hot and breathless toil
    Of the fencers fiercely battling blade to blade.
  In position! Featly, formally on guard,
    Engage the blades in quarte. But by-and-by
  Every subtle thrust and parry, feint and ward,
                  Each will try.

  Foible to foible! Measure distance! Lunge!
    Now the thrust ends in the merest harmless touch;
  But ere the beaten man throws up the sponge,
    As the boxers say, relaxing his hilt-clutch,
  There'll be lunges and ripostes of other sort.
    Firm foot and steady hand must be their friend;
  The encounter will be struggle, not mere sport,
                  Ere the end.

  First to left and then to right! Parry of quarte!
    In pronation by a turn of supple wrist!
  Parry in tierce! All elegant and smart;
    But the lethal thrust no parry can resist
  Comes not in this preliminary play.
    The defender, so complacent and erect,
  Will show another pose another day,
                  We suspect.

  And that grey Grand Old Assailant, who's expert
    At beat and re-beat, press, and graze, and bind,
  Will try his best at a disabling hurt;
    It is not mere parade that's in his mind.
  Meanwhile he's taking measure of his foe,
    Meanwhile his foe of him is taking stock;
  And anon they'll come together in a glow,
                  With a shock!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PREMIER'S POWER.

Brief Fragment of a current Historical Romance.

    [It is whispered that the PRIME MINISTER has of late taken too much
    into his own hands the conduct of the foreign affairs of the
    Government.--Smoking-room Gossip.]

The PRIME MINISTER stood upon the rug, with his back to the fire, and regarded his assembled
colleagues with an imperious and angry scowl. There was a profound and significant silence
for several minutes. At length it broke. He was addressing them once more.

"You understand the official relationship that exists between us. You are my creatures. I am
your Master. What I originate, you accept. I act, you endorse. Do I," he continued, his voice
rising to a shrill, piping treble, "do I make myself sufficiently clear?"

A sickly smile of abject acquiescence overspread the features of the now trembling Ministers.
Their Chief noted it with a gloomy glare. Then with a furious gesture, he suddenly kicked a
waste-paper basket into the air. "You may go!" he growled. They did not wait for a second permission.
Swiftly, but obsequiously, they glided out of the room, and with traces of terror stamped on
their blanched countenances, silently sought the little neighbouring Railway Station, and took
the next train to London.

       * * *

That night the Premier sat up late. But his work, when he began it, did not take him long.
Yet it was not unimportant, for the departing mail-bag carried a set of sealed orders for the
Admiral in Command of the British Squadron in East African Waters, another Ultimatum to the
Government of Portugal, a threatening communication to the Porte, and disturbing despatches,
threatening to the peace of Europe, to the Governments of Russia, France, and Germany respectively.
He laughed long and loud when he thought of their contents. Then he went to bed.

       * * *

Later on, his work bore fruit; and people then said that the Cabinet of the day must have been
a strange one!

       *       *       *       *       *

"A cargo of 180,000 mummified Cats has just been landed at Liverpool, to be used as Manure."--Daily
Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT'S COMPANIONS.

I'm a beginning for to think as we're rayther a rum lot in this werry strawnery world of ours.
I've jest bin a collectin from sum of my brother Waiters sum of their little historys, as far
as they remembers 'em, and werry strange and werry warious sum on 'em is. There's one pore
chap who's about as onest and as atentif a Waiter as I nos on anywheres, but you never, no
never, ewer sees him smile, not ewen wen a ginerus old Deputy, or a new maid Alderman, gives
him harf-a-crown! I've offen and offen tried to cheer him hup with a good old glass of ginerus
port, wen sum reglar swells has bin a dining and has not emtied the bottels--as reel Gennelmen
never does--but never quite suck-seeded, tho' he drank down his wine fast enuff and ewidently
injoyed it quite as much as if he'd paid for it, praps jest a leetle bit more. So one day I
wentured to arsk him how it was as he was allers as sollem as a Churchwarden at a Charity Sermon,
or a Clown in summer time, and he told me as it was all causd by the suckemstances of his hurly
life, which he had never been abel to shake off hisself, pore Fellar! tho' they was none of
'em his own fault, which they was as follers.

To begin with. He was born on a Fryday, on the 1st of April, and amost all his days for years
after seems to have been either Frydays or Fust of Aprils, sumtimes one, sumtimes tother, sumtimes
both. He was the youngest of eleven children, and so made the family party consist of 13, always
as we all knos a unlucky number, and he seemed to have been treeted as if it had bin his own
fault, which in course it wasn't, not by no means, no more than it was his fault the having
the Skarlet Fever on one Crismus Day, which he did to heverybody's disgust.

He was afterwards told by his old Nuss BECKY that one speshal greevance of his pore mother
was, that her youngest child being seven years old when BILLY was born, all the warious prepperashuns
customary on such himportant occasions had been dun away with as useless, ewen to the customary
gigantick Pincushon, so that in his case there was no "Welcum to the Little Stranger!" So long,
too, as his oldest brother remained at tome, he was never allowed to set down to dinner with
the rest of the famerly, because, in course, he made up the unlucky number, the werry nateral
consequence being, that when his oldest brother suddenly took his departure from among 'em,
poor little BILLY was werry severely flogged for setting down to dinner with a smiling countinghouse!
Of course ewery time as his unfortnit Birthday came round he was made a April Fool of, all
his six lovin Brothers jining in the sport, one arter the other, nearly all day long. When
he went to school, ewerybody knowed of his afflickshun, and made a fool of him, hushers and all.

After he growed up, his Father got him a plaice at a Lunatic Asylum, as being the most properest
for his sollem natur; and there he remained for no less than five years!

Then, on the other hand, there's old TOM, or rayther yung TOM, for he's one of them jolly chaps
as never seems to get no older. Why he goes about a grinning away, and a chatting away, and
a chaffing of old BILL, who's much younger than him, like anythink. So I naterally arsked him
how he acounted for his good sperrits. And what was his arnser? Why, hurly training. His Father
was a Comic Play Actor, and allers ready for a larf, and offen took yung TOM with him to the
Theater till he becum quite a favrite with all the merry gals there, who used to pet him, and
give him sweets, and teach him to say all sorts of funny things; and, when he was old enuff,
he was promoted to the dignity of a full-blown Super, at 18 shillings a week, and all his close
found. His grate differculty was in looking serious and keeping serious when serious bizziness
was a going on; and on one occashun, when he was playing one of a band of sangwinerry ruffians,
sumthink so took his fansy, that he not only bust into a loud larf hisself, but set all the
rest of the sangwinerry ruffians a larfing too, and quite spiled all the effect of the scene.
So he was bundled off neck and crop, and soon afterwards got a sitewashun as a Pleaceman, but,
for the life of him, he never could keep hisself serious when he was before a Magistrate with
a case; for if ennybody made a joke, or ennybody larfed, TOM set off a grinning with the best
of 'em, and once axshally made a joke with his Worship; so of course off he was sent again,
to find a rest for the soles of his feet, and a free play for his good sperrits, in the honnerabel
capacity of a Waiter.

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Small Rustic. "YEOU CAN'T GO THAT WAY."

Stalwart Young Lady (out Sketching). "WHY NOT?"

Small Rustic. "'CAUSE THERE'S--THERE'S HURDLES."

Stalwart Young Lady. "BUT I CAN GET OVER HURDLES."

Small Rustic. "AND THEN THERE'S THE BULL!" A merry New Session and many of them."

It was OLD MORALITY who spoke; his kindly face beamed on me; his friendly hand grasped mine.
Walked up the floor together through the old familiar scene. Benches crowded, though a vacant
seat here and there: HARTINGTON'S for example. Everybody sorry to hear he's been ill, and glad
to think of him enjoying the sunlight of Monte Carlo. Grand Old Man more Grand and less Old
than ever; just up from Oxford; passed very well, it is said. Comes into Parliament with every
prospect of distinguishing himself; his maiden speech looked for with much interest.

"I think I'll put it off for a month or two, TOBY," he said, blushing with the ingenuousness
of youth. "You see I'm so fresh from college, that it would ill become me to plunge into public
affairs. It's all very well for a young fellow like me to get up at the Union; but here it's
different. You're very good to say that great things are expected of me; but, if you please,
I'll keep in the background a bit. I'll feel my feet first, as they used to say in the nursery,
in what seems only yesterweek."

Very nice this of him. Wish all young fellows fresh from the University, even when they have
taken honours, were equally modest.

"Haven't seen you since we met at Greenlands' icy mountains in the Recess," OLD MORALITY said,
continuing our conversation interrupted by the cheers that greeted our arrival. "You remember
how bitterly cold the day was? Rather thought you hurried away. Wish you could have stayed
to luncheon. We happened to have something succulent. However, you must come and dine in my
room behind the SPEAKER'S Chair; AKERS-DOUGLAS will show you the way. We do it pretty snug
there, I can tell you. What sort of a Session shall we have? Who can tell? Usual sort of thing,
I suppose. We shall bring in a lot of Bills; Gentlemen opposite will talk some of them out;
at Easter and Whitsuntide Recesses we shall squeeze a stage of some through, under pressure
of the holidays; then three weeks in June and most of July will be wasted; and in August we'll
suspend Standing Orders, and ram through everything we can. As for me, I shall endeavour to
do my duty to the QUEEN, to the Country, and to the Members of this House, in whichever part
they sit. Did you ever, dear TOBY, consider how a kettle boils? The water nearest to the fire
is first heated, and (being heated) rises to the top. Its place is supplied by colder portions,
which are heated in turn, and this interchange takes place till all the water is boiling hot.
That is how we shall get through the Session. The Report of the Parnell Commission, being most
heated, will rise to the top first. Then the Tithes Bill, Land Purchase, the Education question,
and one or two other little matters will follow, till we're all in boiling water. Good-bye
now; don't forget to come across AKERS-DOUGLAS about Eight o'Clock."

Business done.--Session opened.

       *       *       *       *       *

KILLING FOR A SHILLING.--Lord WOLSELEY (who seems to have read the regulations governing communications
from soldiers to the Press in a very liberal spirit) has published an article on the British
Army in the pages of an American Twelvepenny Magazine. The contribution is embellished with
sketches of the costumes of TOMMY ATKINS and his predecessors. For the rest, some of the letterpress
is sufficiently alarming to warrant "Our Only General" in assuming a title which he apparently
appears to covet--that of a "Shilling Shocker!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SOMETHING LIKE A DINNER.

Now that the Parliamentary Session has opened, and the Season threatens to set in with its
usual severity, the dinner question comes prominently to the front. Even in the best-regulated
households there is a sameness about dinner which, towards the end of the week, palls upon
the appetite. Some ambitious young men have attempted to deal with the matter and surprise
their guests by introducing cheese immediately after the soup (soufflé au parmesan), and after
a cut of beef comes the fish (turbot à la Russe). That is well meant, but it is crude. Mr.
Punch has given his great mind to the subject, and presents to the consideration of the dining
world the following hints for a meal:--

  Half-om-half.
  Blauwe Landtongsche Oesters.
  Hoog-Sauterneswijn.
  Soepen.
  Dikke Rivierkreeften Soep.     Volmaakte Soep in Van Dijk Stijl.
  Amontillado.
  Zuschotelles.
  Selderij.  Olijven.  Radijs.  Haringen.  Poukenvorm gebakken
  in Berg-op-Zoomsche Stijl.
  Liebfraumilch.
  Gekruide Gerechten.
  Gestreepte Baars, Piet Hein Stijl.  Lambasteien met Zeeuwsche Saus.
  Chateau Danzac.
  Voorgerechten.
  Hoenden Vleugels, met Haagsche Saus.
  Heetkoudegemakten Ganzenlevers in Zwolsche Stijl.
  Ruinart, wrang wijn, Bijzonder Perrier Jouet, Louis Roederer, wrang,
  Giesler & Co., G. H. Mumm, buitengewoondroog.
  Groenten.
  Aardappelen in Sneeksche Stijl.
  Doperwten, Fransche Stijl.
  Gebakkene Kropsalade.
  Sorbet, Anneke Jans.
  Gebraad.
  Kanefasrug Eendvogels.  Gekruide Seiderij-sla.
  Richebourg.
  Nagerecht.
  Curacaogelei.  Italiaansche Ijs.  Edamsche Kaas.  Vruchten.
  Gemonteerde Stukken.
  Koffie.
  Likeuren. Sigaren.
  Pupen en Tabak.

It may be objected that half-and-half, even when badly spelt, is a cold preparation for dinner;
and others may take exception to Poukenvorm, as likely to have an earthy taste. But did they
ever try it gebakken in Berg-op-Zoomsche Stijl? It is no use mincing matters. Let anyone in
search of a good dinner enter any well-appointed restaurant, and order this menu right through
down to Pupen en Tabak (which is not a preparation of dog's meat), and if they are not satisfied,
Mr. Punch is a Dutchman.

       *       *       *       *       *

"RICHARDSON'S SHOW" AND A "BILL OF THE PLAY."

The Vaudeville, when it was opened, was devoted to all that was light and cheerful. Comedy
and Burlesque went hand-in-hand, and the audience, if ever asked to weep, were begged to cry
with laughter. But Mr. ROBERT BUCHANAN (with the assistance of the late Mr. RICHARDSON) "has
changed all that." Clarissa, the present attraction at the little theatre on the North-side
of the Strand, is a piece of the most doleful character. The First Act is devoted to a very
heartless abduction, and the last to a lingering death and a fatal duello. When it is announced
that the successful fencer who "kills his man" is no less a person than that excellent Comedian,
Mr. THOMAS THORNE, it will be readily understood that "the New Drama" is the reverse of lively.
Clarissa has scarcely a laugh in it from beginning to end. Certainly, in the last Scene but
one, there is a revel, in which "pseudo-Ladies of Fashion" take part, but the merriment with
which it is spiced is decidedly ghastly. Miss WINIFRED EMERY is exceedingly clever, but her
death-scene is painfully protracted. Mr. THALBERG, as Lovelace, is a sad dog in every sense--a
very sad dog, indeed. The only incident in the piece ever likely to provoke a smile, is the
appearance of some comic bearers of grotesque sedan-chairs. When Clarissa is carried out à
la GUY FAUX at the end of the Second Act, there is certainly a moment's hesitation whether
the audience should cry or laugh. But the sighs have it, and pocket-handkerchiefs remain to
the front. On the occasion of the initial performance, some slight amusement was caused by
the introduction of Mr. BUCHANAN in unconventional nineteenth century morning dress amongst
the old-fashioned costumes of the company; but, of course, the slight amusement was for once
and away, and could not advantageously be frequently repeated. Thus, take one thing with another,
the life of the Vaudeville audiences at this moment cannot be truthfully described as a merry one.

At the Avenue quite a different story may be told. People who visit this pretty little house
desirous of being moved even unto tears by that finest of Fausts, Mr. ALEXANDER, will be disappointed--they
had far better stay at home, or go to see Clarissa. Mr. HAMILTON AÏDÉ has adapted from the
French of CARRÉ (a case of fetch and carry) a Farcical Comedy in Three Acts, which he calls
Dr. Bill, in preference to Dr. Jojo the Gallic original. The prescription from which the Doctor
concocts his mixture might have been supplied by the Criterion. Mr. FREDERICK TERRY plays a
part that would have suited Mr. WYNDHAM down to the ground, and Mr. CHEVALIER is continually
suggesting the peculiarities of Mr. MALTBY. Miss FANNY BROUGH is Miss FANNY BROUGH, which means
that no one could play the part so well, much less better. For the rest, the company (although
a new one) work together with a "go" that carries all before it. ALEXANDER has certainly conquered
the world--of Comedy. He may do less wise things if he rests satisfied, and leaves Tragedy
alone for an indefinitely lengthened period.

  SERJEANT COX, ON BEHALF OF PRIVATE BOX.

P.S.--Mr. JEROME'S new piece (which he describes as "comparatively speaking, new and original"),
just produced at Terry's Theatre, is rather disappointing. Its title of New Lamps for Old strongly
suggests a "Night's Entertainment." But when the poverty of the plot and the quality of the
dialogue are taken into consideration, it would be almost too much to say that this pleasant
idea is fully realised by the evening's performances. It must be confessed, however, that Mr.
PENLEY, rising and descending in a dinner-lift, is (at first) funny; and Miss CISSY GRAHAME
is ever welcome.