La Mer des Histoires.--I find I have a note on that handsome old French work, La Mer des Histoires,
which is commonly attributed to Johannes de Columna, Archbishop of Messina; but upon which
Francis Douce, while taking notice of its being a translation of the Rudimentum Noviciorum
ascribed to Mochartus, observes that it is a different work from the Mare Historiarum of Johannes
de Columna. Douce also informs us, that there were several works passing under this title.
Columna is mentioned by Genebrard as the author of a book, Cujus titulus est Mater Historiarum.
Query? What is known of the work, which is really Columna's?

John Sansom.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Passages in Milton

  "And every shepherd tells his tale
  Under the hawthorn in the dale."

  Milton's L'Allegro.

I used to suppose the tale told was a love tale. Now I take it to mean that each shepherd tells
the tale, that is, counts the number of his sheep. Is there any doubt on this point?

Milton (Paradise Lost, b. v.), speaks of "silent night with this her solemn bird;" that is,
the nightingale. Most readers take "solemn" to mean "pensive;" but I cannot doubt that Milton
(who carries Latinism to excess) used it to express habitual, customary, familiar, as in its
Latin form sollemnis.

B.H.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The lovers of accurate and painstaking topography, the students of genealogical history, and,
though last not least, those who like to see the writings of Shakspeare, illustrated in a congenial
spirit, will read with pleasure the announcement, in our advertising columns, that the fellow-townsmen
of Joseph Hunter, the Historian of "Hallamshire" and "The Deanery of Doncaster," and the Illustrator
of the Life and Writings of Shakspeare, have opened a Subscription for the purpose of placing
a full-length portrait of that gentleman in the Cutlers' Hall, Sheffield.

When we announced Mr. Archer's projected work, entitled Vestiges of Old London, a Series of
finished Etchings from Original Drawings, with Descriptions, Historical Associations, and other
References, we spoke of it as one likely, we thought, to prove of especial interest. The appearance
of the first Number justifies to the fullest our anticipation. The pictorial representations
are replete {287} with variety, and the literary illustrations full of a pleasant gossipping
anecdotical character. The first plate shows us The Old Bulk Shop at Temple Bar, occupied by
successive generations of fishmongers, and doubtless well remembered by most of our readers;
although no trace of it any longer exists. The House of John Dryden, in Fetter Lane, so designated
on the authority of the late Mr. Upcott, forms the second plate; and is followed by The Altar
of Diana, discovered in Foster Lane, Cheapside, in December, 1830. The Drapers' Almshouses,
Crutched Friars, is the next illustration, which again is contrasted by a plate of Roman Vestiges,
full of interest to those who like to investigate the Roman occupation of our metropolis; and
this first part concludes with a view of The Old Chapel of St. Bartholomew, Kingsland. The
work is executed in a style to delight London antiquaries, and charm those who delight to illustrate
Pennant. The possessors of objects of beauty and rarity have vied with each other in placing
at the disposal of the Committee their choicest specimens; and the inhabitants and visitors
of the metropolis will shortly have an opportunity of judging how numerous are the relics of
"barbaric pomp and gold" which are still left to us, and how much of beauty of design, and
"skill in workmanship" were displayed by the "hard-handed" men of the good old times, to justify
the enthusiasm of the antiquary, and gratify the man of taste.

We have received, but at a moment too late to notice as it deserves, the Catalogue of very
choice Books, and Books printed on vellum, the property of the late Mr. Rodd, which are to
be sold by Messrs. Sotheby, at their rooms in Wellington Street, on Monday next. As a specimen,
perhaps the most remarkable of this collection, we may point out the set of the Works of Thomas
Aquinas, in 17 folio volumes, bound in 21, and which is well described as

    "A magnificent set of Books, presenting one of the finest
    specimens, and at the same time the most extensive work, ever
    printed upon vellum. This copy was presented by Pope Pius V. to
    Philip II., king of Spain, and was deposited in the library of
    the Escurial, whence it was taken during the occupation of Spain
    by Bonaparte. The only other copy known is in the National
    Library, Paris. It is the best edition of this author's works."

We have received the following Catalogues:

    "John Petheram's Catalogue of Old and New Books on Sale for Cash
    only at 94. High Holborn. Part CVIII. No. 2. for 1850."

a Catalogue containing some excellent books, which reached us last week, and was omitted from
our last list by accident.

    "Catalogue of Miscellaneous English and Foreign Books in all
    Classes of Literature, selected from the Stock of Nattali and
    Bond, 23. Bedford Street, Covent Garden."

    "Bibliotheca Salisburiensis. A Catalogue of Old and New Books on
    sale by J. Hearn, corner of the Poultry Cross, Salisbury."

Odd Volumes.

Goldsmith's Miscellaneous Works. (Cairn's Edition.) 12mo. Edinburgh. 1804. Vol. III.

British Painters, Sculptors, and Architects. Family Library. 1830. Vol. IV.

Orbis Phaeton, sive de Universis Vitus Linguæ. Pars prima, A to K. Mons. 1629.

Political Magazine for 1780. Vol. IX. for 1785. Vol. XII. for 1787.

Hudibras. 18mo. 1716. Vol. I.

Valpy's Delphin Classics. 63 and 64. In the original Boards.

Inchbald's British Theater. 12mo. 1808. Vol. IX.

Chevallier's Epistles of the Apostolic Fathers.

Historical Romances. 7 Vols., or Vol. I. Constable, 1822.

We have again had to indulge in the expensive luxury of a further reprint; and we have therefore
the pleasure of announcing that our Second Monthly Part, which has been out of print, may now
be had by such of our friends as want to complete their sets.

We are again under the necessity of omitting many communications, including Notes, Queries,
and Replies, which are in type; but we hope, by enlarging next week's paper to 24 pages, instead
of 16, to find room for inserting many interesting papers which we have been hitherto compelled
to omit for want of room.

A.J.V. will find an answer to his query respecting Angels' Visits, &c. in No. 7. p. 102.; and
respecting the Hudibrastic couplet, in No. 12. p. 179.

M.X. (Bridport). The work well bound will only fetch about seven or eight pounds in a sale
room, and may be purchased for about ten.

Errata. No. 9. p. 133. col. 1. l. 51., for "Silent" read "Select;" l. 54., for "imposing" read
"composing;" and col. 2. l. 43. after "that" insert "Simpson's." No. 17. p. 263. col. 1. l.
49., for "Respublicæ" read "Respublica."

       *       *       *       *       * {288}

Exceedingly Choice and Rare Books, and Books printed upon Vellum, the property of the late
eminent bookseller, Mr. Thos. Rodd. T. Kerver, 1528; La Collection des Ouvrages, imprimées
par Ordre de M. Le Compte d'Artois, 64 vols., printed on vellum, Paris Didot. To be viewed
three days prior, and catalogues had at the place of sale.

       *       *       *       *       *

