The common epithets of critical justice fail in such a case as that of this work. The facts
concerning it, as they present themselves one after another, are stronger in their condemnation
of it than any words. It would seem as if nothing further could be added to the disgrace of
the translator; but we have still one more charge to prove against him, worse than the incompetence,
the ignorance, and the dishonesty of which we have already found him guilty. In reading the
last volume of his work, after our suspicions of its character had been aroused, it seemed
to us that we met here and there with sentences which had a familiar tone, which at least resembled
sentences we had elsewhere read. We found, upon examination, that Signor Tamburini, under the
pretence of a translation of Benvenuto, had inserted through his pages, with a liberal hand,
considerable portions of the well-known notes of Costa, and, more rarely, of the still later
Florentine editor, the Abate Bianchi. It occurred to us as possible that Costa and Bianchi
had in these passages themselves translated from Benvenuto, and that Signor Tamburini had simply
adopted their versions without acknowledgment, to save himself the trouble of making a new
translation. But we were soon satisfied that his trickery had gone farther than this, and that
he had inserted the notes of these editors to fill up his own pages, without the slightest
regard to their correspondence with or disagreement from the original text. It is impossible
to discover the motive of this proceeding; for it certainly would seem to be as easy to translate,
after the manner in which Signor Tamburini translates, as to copy the words of other authors.
Moreover, his thefts seem quite without rule or order: he takes one note and leaves the next;
he copies a part, and leaves the other part of the same note; he sometimes quotes half a page,
sometimes only a line or two in many pages. Costa's notes on the 98th and 100th verses of Canto
XXI. of the "Paradise" are taken out without the change of a single word, and so also his note
on v. 94 of the next Canto. In this last instance we have the means of knowing what Benvenuto
wrote, because, although the passage has not been given by Muratori, it is found in the note
by Parenti, in the Florentine edition of the "Divina Commedia" of 1830. "Vult dicere Benedictus
quod miraculosius fuit Jordanem converti retrorsum, et Mare Rubrum aperiri per medium, quam
si Deus succurreret et provideret istis malis. Ratio est quod utrumque praedictorum miraculorum
fuit contra naturam; sed punire reos et nocentes naturale est et usitatum, quamvis Deus punierit
peccatores AEgyptios per modum inusitatum supernaturaliter Jordanus sic nominatur a duobus
fontibus, quorum unus vocatur JOR et alius vocatur DAN: inde JORDANUS, ut ait Hieronymus, locorum
orientalium persedulus indagator. Volto ritrorso; scilicet, versus ortum suum, vel contra:
el mar fugire; idest, et Mare Rubrum fugere hinc inde, quando fecit viam populo Dei, qui transivit
sicco pede: fu qui mirabile a vedere; idest, miraculosius, chel soccorso que, idest, quam esset
mirabile succursum divinum hic venturum ad puniendos perversos." Now this whole passage is
omitted in Signor Tamburini's work; and in its place appears a literal transcript from Costa's
note, as follows: "Veramente fu più mirabile cosa vedere il Giordano volto all' indietro o
fuggire il mare, quando così volle Iddio, che non sarebbe vedere qui il provvedimento a quel
male, che per colpa de' traviati religiosi viene alia Chiesa di Dio."

Another instance of this complete desertion of Benvenuto, and adoption of another's words,
occurs just at the end of the same Canto, v. 150; and the Florentine edition again gives us
the original text. It is even more inexplicable why the so-called translator should have chosen
this course here than in the preceding instance; for he has copied but a line and a half from
Costa, which is not a larceny of sufficient magnitude to be of value to the thief.

We have noted misappropriations of this sort, beside those already mentioned, in Cantos II.
and III. of the "Purgatory," and in Cantos I., II., XV., XVI., XVIII., XIX., and XXIII., of
the "Paradise." There are undoubtedly others which have not attracted our attention.

We have now finished our exposure of the false pretences of these volumes, and of the character
of their author. After what has been said of them, it seems hardly worth while to note, that,
though handsome in external appearance, they are very carelessly and inaccurately printed,
and that they are totally deficient in needed editorial illustrations. Such few notes of his
own as Signor Tamburini has inserted in the course of the work are deficient alike in intelligence
and in object.

A literary fraud of this magnitude is rarely attempted. A man must be conscious of being supported
by the forces of a corrupt ecclesiastical literary police before venturing on a transaction
of this kind. No shame can touch the President of the "Academy of the Industrious." His book
has the triple Imprimatur of Rome. It is a comment, not so much on Dante, as on the low standard
of literary honesty under a government where the press is shackled, where true criticism is
forbidden, where the censorship exerts its power over the dead as well as the living, and every
word must be accommodated to the fancied needs of a despotism the more exacting from the consciousness
of its own decline.

It is to be hoped, that, with the new freedom of Italian letters, an edition of the original
text of Benvenuto's Comment will be issued under competent supervision. The old Commentator,
the friend of Petrarch and Boccaccio, deserves this honor, and should have his fame protected
against the assault made upon it by his unworthy compatriot.

Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character. By E.E. RAMSAY, M.A., LL.D., F.R. S.E., Dean
of Edinburgh. From the Seventh Edinburgh Edition. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 12mo.

This book was not made, but grew. The foundation was a short lecture delivered in Edinburgh.
It was so popular that it was published in a pamphlet form. The popularity of the pamphlet
induced Dean Ramsay to recall many anecdotes illustrating national peculiarities which could
not be compressed into a lyceum address. The result was that the pamphlet became a thin volume,
which grew thicker and thicker as edition after edition was called for by the curiosity of
the public. The American reprint is from the seventh and last Edinburgh edition, and is introduced
by a genial preface, written especially for American readers. The author is more than justified
in thinking that there are numerous persons scattered over our country, who, from ties of ancestry
or sympathy with Scotland, will enjoy a record of the quaint sayings and eccentric acts of
her past humorists,--"her original and strong-minded old ladies,--her excellent and simple
parish ministers,--her amusing parochial half-daft idiots,--her pawky lairds,--and her old-fashioned
and now obsolete domestic servants and retainers." Indeed, the Yankee is sufficiently allied,
morally and intellectually, with the Scotchman, to appreciate everything that illustrates the
peculiarities of Scottish humor. He has shown this by the delight he has found in those novels
of Scott's which relate exclusively to Scotland. The Englishman, and perhaps the Frenchman,
may have excelled him in the appreciation of "Ivanhoe" and "Quentin Durward," but we doubt
if even the first has equalled him in the cozy enjoyment of the "Antiquary" and "Guy Mannering."
And Dean Ramsay's book proves how rich and deep was the foundation in fact of the qualities
which Sir Walter has immortalized in fiction. He has arranged his "Reminiscences of Scottish
Life and Character" under five heads, relating respectively to the religious feelings and observances,
the conviviality, the domestic service, the language and proverbs, and the peculiarities of
the wit and humor of Scotland. In New England, and wherever in any part of the country the
New-Englander resides, the volume will receive a most cordial recognition. Dean Ramsay's qualifications
for his work are plainly implied in his evident understanding and enjoyment of the humor of
Scottish character. He writes about that which he feels and knows; and, without any exercise
of analysis and generalization, he subtly conveys to the reader the inmost spirit of the national
life he undertakes to illustrate by narrative, anecdote, and comment. The finest critical and
artistic skill would be inadequate to insinuate into the mind so keen and vivid a perception
of Scottish characteristics as escape unconsciously from the simple statements of this true
Scotchman, who is in hearty sympathy with his countrymen.

The Pulpit of the American Revolution: or, The Political Sermons of the Period of 1776. With
a Historical Introduction, Notes, and Illustrations. By JOHN WINGATE THORNTON, A.M. Boston:
Gould & Lincoln. 12mo.

This is a volume worthy a place in every American library, public or private. It consists of
nine discourses by the same number of patriotic clergymen of the Revolution. Mr. Thornton,
the editor, has supplied an historical introduction, full of curious and interesting matter,
and has also given a special preface to each sermon, with notes explaining all those allusions
in the text which might puzzle an ordinary reader of the present day. His annotations have
not only the value which comes from patient research, but the charm which proceeds from loving
partisanship. He transports himself into the times about which he writes, and almost seems
to have listened to the sermons he now comes forward to illustrate. The volume contains Dr.
Mayhew's sermon on "Unlimited Submission," Dr. Chauncy's on the "Repeal of the Stamp Act,"
Rev. Mr. Cooke's Election Sermon on the "True Principles of Civil Government," Rev. Mr. Gordon's
"Thanksgiving Sermon in 1774," and the discourses, celebrated in their day, of Langdon, Stiles,
West, Payson, and Howard. Among these, the first rank is doubtless due to Dr. Mayhew's remarkable
discourse at the West Church on the 30th of January, 1750. The topics relating to "non-resistance
to the higher powers," which Macaulay treats with such wealth of statement, argument, and illustration,
in his "History of England," are in this sermon discussed with equal earnestness, energy, brilliancy,
fulness, and independence of thought. If all political sermons were characterized by the rare
mental and moral qualities which distinguish Jonathan Mayhew's, there can be little doubt that
our politicians and statesmen would oppose the intrusion of parsons into affairs of state on
the principle of self-preservation, and not on any arrogant pretension of superior sagacity,
knowledge, and ability. In the power to inform the people of their rights and teach them their
duties, we would be willing to pit one Mayhew against a score of Cushings and Rhetts, of Slidells
and Yanceys. The fact that Mayhew's large and noble soul glowed with the inspiration of a quick
moral and religious, as well as common, sense, would not, in our humble opinion, at all detract
from his practical efficiency. The Pickwick Papers. New York: W.A. Townsend & Co. 4 vols. 12mo.

