'To sum up, the arrangements are such that everyone is completely comfortable and conveniently
placed for his work--in fact we could not be better housed. Of course a good many of us will
have a small enough chance of enjoying the comforts of our home. We shall be away sledding
late this year and off again [Page 237] early next season, but even for us it will be pleasant
to feel that such comfort awaits our return.'

So in less than a fortnight after the arrival in McMurdo Sound they had absolutely settled
down, and were anxious to start upon their depôt journey as soon as the ponies had recovered
thoroughly from the effects of the voyage. These autumn journeys, however, required much thought
and preparation, mainly because the prospect of the parties being cut off from their winter
quarters necessitated a great deal of food being taken both for men and animals. Sledding gear
and wintering boots were served out to the selected travelers, sledges were prepared by P.O.
Evans and Crean, and most of the stores were tested and found to be most excellent in quality.

Visions of the ship being unable to return to New Zealand arose in his mind 'with sickening
pertinacity,' and it was characteristic of him that at the moment when there was every prospect
of a complete disarrangement of well-laid plans, he found his one [Page 238] consolation in
determining that, whatever happened, nothing should interfere with the southern work.

The Southern Road was the one feasible line of communication between the new station at Cape
Evans and the Discovery hut, for the rugged mountains and crevassed ice-slopes of Ross Island
prevented a passage by land. Thus it was most important to get safely over the dangerous part
of this Road before the seasonal going-out of the sea-ice. To wait until after the ice went
out and the ship could sail to Hut Point would have meant both uncertainty and delay. Scott
knew well enough that the Road might not hold for many more hours, [Page 240] and it actually
broke up on the very day after the party had passed.

Early on Tuesday, January 24, a boat from the ship fetched Scott and the Western Party; and
at the same time the ponies were led out of the camp, Wilson and Meares going ahead of them
to test the track.

Then, while Campbell investigated a broad crack in the sea ice on the Southern Road, Scott
went to meet the ponies, which, without much difficulty, were got on to the Tongue, across
the glacier, and then were picketed on the sea-ice close to the ship. But when Campbell returned
with the news that the big crack was 30 feet across, it was evident that they must get past
it on the glacier, and Scott asked him to peg out a road clear of cracks. Gradually it sank
deeper and deeper until only its head and forelegs showed above the slush. With some trouble
ropes were attached to these, and the poor animal, looking very weak and miserable, was eventually
pulled out.

After this experience the other five ponies were led farther round to the west and were got
safely out on the floe; a small feed was given to them, and then they were started off with
their loads.

The dogs in the meantime were causing some excitement for, starting on hard ice with a light
load, they obviously preferred speed to security. Happily, however, no accident happened, and
Scott, writing from Glacier Tongue on January 24, was able to say: 'All have arrived safely,
and this evening we start our sledges south. I expect we shall have to make three relays to
get all our stores on to the Barrier some fifteen miles away. The ship is to land a geologising
party on the west side of the Sound, and then to proceed to King Edward's Land to put the Eastern
party on short.'

The geologising party consisted of Griffith Taylor, Debenham, Wright, and P.O. Evans, and for
reasons [Page 242] already mentioned the Eastern party were eventually known as the Northern party.

On the night of the 24th Scott camped six miles from the glacier and two miles from Hut Point,
he and Wilson having driven one team of dogs, while Meares and E. Evans drove the other. Nothing
more miraculous than the story of their adventures has ever been told. The party consisted
of Campbell, Levick, Priestley, Abbott, Browning, and Dickason, and the courage shown by the
leader and his companions in facing endless difficulties and privations has met with the unstinted
admiration that it most thoroughly deserved.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the depôt laying journey Scott's party consisted of 12 men (Wilson, Bowers, Oates, Atkinson,
Cherry-Garrard, E. Evans, Gran, Meares, Forde, [Page 243] Keohane, Crean, and himself), 8 ponies
and 26 dogs. Of the dogs he felt at this time more than a little doubtful, but the ponies were
in his opinion bound to be a success. The strenuous labour of this day tired out the dogs,
but the ponies worked splendidly. On the next day, however, both Keohane's and Bowers' ponies
showed signs of breaking down, and Oates began to take a gloomy view of the situation. In compensation
for these misfortunes the dogs, as they got into better condition, began to do excellent work.
'It is only when we start that we must travel fast.' Work, however, on the Monday was more
strenuous than successful, for the ponies sank very deep and had great difficulty in bringing
up their loads.

On Tuesday when everything was ready for the start the one pair of snow-shoes was tried on
'Weary Willy' with magical effect. In places where he had floundered woefully without the shoes
he strolled round as if he was walking on hard ground. Immediately after this experiment Scott
decided that an attempt must be made to get more snow-shoes, and within half an hour Meares
and Wilson had started, on the chance that the ice had not yet gone out, to the station twenty
miles away. But on the next day they returned with the news that there was no [Page 246] possibility
of reaching Cape Evans, and an additional stroke of bad fortune fell when Atkinson's foot,
which had been troublesome for some time, was examined and found to be so bad that he had to
be left behind with Crean as a companion.

Writing on Wednesday, February 1, from 'Safety Camp, Great Barrier,' Scott said: 'I told you
that we should be cut off from our winter station, and that I had to get a good weight of stores
on to the Barrier to provide for that contingency. We are safely here with all requisite stores,
though it has taken nearly a week. But we find the surface very soft and the ponies flounder
in it. I sent a dog team back yesterday to try and get snow-shoes for ponies, but they found
the ice broken south of Cape Evans and returned this morning. Everyone is doing splendidly
and gaining the right sort of experience for next year. Every mile we advance this year is
a help for next.'

At last the start was made on Thursday, February 2, but when, after marching five miles, Scott
asked for their one pair of snow-shoes, he found that they had been left behind, and Gran--whose
expertness on ski was most useful--immediately volunteered to go back and get them. While he
was away the party rested, for at Scott's suggestion they had decided to take to night marching.
And so at 12.30 A.M. they started off once more on a surface that was bad at first but gradually
improved, until just before camping time Bowers, who was leading, suddenly plunged into soft
snow. Several of the others, following close behind [Page 247] him, shared the same fate, and
soon three ponies were plunging and struggling in a drift, and had to be unharnessed and led
round from patch to patch until firmer ground was reached.

Then came another triumph for the snow-shoes, which were put on Bowers' pony, with the result
that after a few minutes he settled down, was harnessed to his load, and brought in not only
that but also another over places into which he had previously been plunging. Again Scott expressed
his regret that such a great help to their work had been left behind at the station, and it
was all the more trying for him to see the ponies half engulfed in the snow, and panting and
heaving from the strain, when the remedies for his state of affairs were so near and yet so
impossible to reach.

During the next march ten miles were covered, and the ponies, on a better surface, easily dragged
their loads, but signs of bad weather began to appear in the morning, and by 4 P.M. on Saturday
a blizzard arrived and held up the party in Corner Camp for three days. All of them finished
the march listlessly, and two or three were visibly thinner. [Page 248] But by far the worst
sufferer was Forde's 'Blucher' whose load was reduced to 200 lbs., and finally Forde pulled
this in and led his pony. Extra food was given in the hope that they would soon improve again;
but at all costs most of them had got to be kept alive, and Scott began to fear that very possibly
the journey would have to be curtailed.

During the next two marches, however, the ponies seemed to be stronger. 'Surface very good
and animals did splendidly,' Scott wrote on Friday, February 10, and then gave in his diary
for the day an account of their nightly routine. Early on Sunday morning they were near the
79th parallel, and exact bearings had to be taken, since this camp, called Bluff Camp, was
expected to play an important part in the future. By this time three of the ponies, Blossom,
James Pigg, and Blucher, were so weak that Scott decided to send E. Evans, Forde and Keohane
back with them.

Progress on the next march was interrupted by a short blizzard, and Scott, not by any means
for the first time, was struck by Bowers' imperviousness to [Page 251] cold. Still, however,
they struggled on; but Gran with Weary Willy could not go the pace, and when they were three-quarters
of a mile behind the others the dog teams (which always left the camp after the others) overtook
them. Then the dogs got out of hand and attacked Weary Willy, who put up a sterling fight but
was bitten rather badly before Meares and Gran could drive off the dogs. Afterwards it was
discovered that Weary Willy's load was much heavier than that of the other ponies, and an attempt
to continue the march had quickly [Page 252] to be abandoned owing to his weak condition. Bowers'
pony, however, refused work for the first time, and Oates was more despondent than ever; 'But,'
Scott says, 'I've come to see that this is a characteristic of him. In spite of it he pays
every attention to the weaker horses.'

No doubt remained on the Thursday that both Weary Willy and Bowers' pony could stand very little
more, and so it was decided to turn back on the following day. During the last march out the
temperature fell to -21° with a brisk south-west breeze, and frost-bites were frequent. Bowers
with his ears still uncovered suffered severely, but while Scott and Cherry-Garrard nursed
them back he seemed to feel nothing but surprise and disgust at the mere fact of possessing
such unruly organs. 79° 29' S, and considerably over a ton of stuff was landed. In addition
to a flagstaff and black flag, One Ton Camp was marked with piled biscuit boxes to act as reflectors,
and tea-tins were tied on the top of the sledges, which were planted upright in the snow. The
depôt cairn was more than six feet above the surface, and so the party had the satisfaction
of knowing that it could scarcely fail to show up for many miles.

[Page 254] CHAPTER III

PERILS

                ...Yet I argue not
  Against Heaven's hand or will, nor bate a jot
  Of heart or hope; but still bear up and steer
  Right onward.
    MILTON.

On the return journey Scott, Wilson, Meares and Cherry-Garrard went back at top speed with
the dog teams, leaving Bowers, Oates and Gran to follow with the ponies. For three days excellent
marches were made, the dogs pulling splendidly, and anxious as Scott was to get back to Safety
Camp and find out what had happened to the other parties and the ponies, he was more than satisfied
with the daily records. But on Tuesday, February 21, a check came in their rapid journey, a
check, moreover, which might have been a most serious disaster.

The light though good when they started about 10 P.M. on Monday night quickly became so bad
that but little of the surface could be seen, and the dogs began to show signs of fatigue.
About an hour and a half after the start they came upon mistily outlined [Page 255] pressure
ridges and were running by the sledges when, as the teams were trotting side by side, the middle
dogs of the teams driven by Scott and Meares began to disappear. 'We turned,' Cherry-Garrard
says, 'and saw their dogs disappearing one after another, like dogs going down a hole after a rat.'

In a moment the whole team were sinking; two by two they vanished from sight, each pair struggling
for foothold. Osman, the leader, put forth all his strength and most wonderfully kept a foothold.
The sledge stopped on the brink of the crevasse, and Scott and Meares jumped aside.

In another moment the situation was realized. They had actually been traveling along the bridge
of a crevasse, the sledge had stopped on it, while the dogs hung in their harness in the abyss.
The dogs, suspended in all sorts of fantastic positions, were howling dismally and almost frantic
with terror.

By this time assistance was forthcoming from Wilson and Cherry-Garrard, the latter hurriedly
[Page 256] bringing the Alpine rope, the exact position of which on the sledge he most fortunately
knew. The prospect, however, of rescuing the team was not by any means bright, and for some
minutes every attempt failed. In spite of their determined efforts they could get not an inch
on the main trace of the sledge or on the leading rope, which with a throttling pressure was
binding poor Osman to the snow.

Then, as their thoughts became clearer, they set to work on a definite plan of action. The
next step was to secure the leading rope to the main trace and haul up together. By this means
one dog was rescued and unlashed, but the rope already had cut so far back at the edge that
efforts to get more of it were useless.

'We could now unbend the sledge and do that for which we should have aimed from the first,
namely, run the sledge across the gap and work from it.' So the sledge was put over the crevasse
and pegged down on both sides, Wilson holding on to the anchored trace while the others worked
at the leader end. The leading rope, however, was so very small that Scott was afraid of its
breaking, and Meares was lowered down to secure the Alpine rope to the leading end of [Page
257] the trace; when this had been done the chance of rescuing the dogs at once began to improve.

Two by two the dogs were hauled up until eleven out of the thirteen were again in safety. The
bridge turned out to be firm, and he quickly got hold of the dogs and saw them hauled to the
surface. But before he could be brought up terrific howls arose above, and he had to be left
while the rope-tenders hastened to stop a fight between the dogs of the two teams. Had the
sledge gone down Scott and Meares must have been badly injured, if not killed [Page 258] outright,
but as things had turned out even the dogs showed wonderful signs of recovery after their terrible
experience.

On the following day Safety Camp was reached, but the dogs were as thin as rakes and so ravenously
hungry that Scott expressed a very strong opinion that they were underfed. Forde had spent
hour after hour in nursing poor Blucher, and although the greatest care had also been given
to Blossom, both of them were left on the Southern Road. The remaining one of the three, James
Pigg, had managed not only to survive but actually to thrive, and, severe as the loss of the
two ponies was, some small consolation could be gained from the fact that they were the oldest
of the team, and the two which Oates considered to be the least useful.

After a few hours' sleep Scott, Wilson, Meares, Cherry-Garrard and Evans started off to Hut
Point, and on arrival were astonished to find that, although the hut had been cleared and made
habitable, no one was there. A pencil line on the wall stated that a bag containing a mail
was inside, but no bag was to be found. But presently what turned out to be the true [Page
259] solution of this curious state of affairs was guessed, namely, that Atkinson and Crean
had been on their way from the hut to Safety Camp as the others had come from the camp to the
hut, and later on Scott saw their sledge track leading round on the sea-ice.

Feeling terribly anxious that some disaster might have happened to Atkinson and Crean owing
to the weakness of the ice round Cape Armitage, Scott and his party soon started back to Safety
Camp, but it was not until they were within a couple of hundred yards of their destination
that they saw three tents instead of two, and knew that Atkinson and Crean were safe. No sooner,
however, had Scott received his letters than his feelings of relief were succeeded by sheer
astonishment. No landing place, however, for Campbell's party could be found. 'This,' Campbell
says, 'was a great disappointment to us all, but there was nothing for it but to return to
McMurdo Sound to communicate with the main party, and then try to effect a landing in the vicinity
of Smith's Inlet or as far to the westward as possible on the north coast of Victoria Land,
and if possible to explore the unknown coast west of Cape North. We therefore made the best
of our way to Cape Evans, and arrived on the evening of the 8th. Here I decided to land the
two ponies, as they would be very little use to us on the mountainous coast of Victoria Land,
and in view of the Norwegian expedition I felt the Southern Party would require all the transport
available. After landing the ponies we steamed up to the sea-ice by Glacier Tongue, and from
there, taking Priestley and Abbott, I went with letters to Hut Point, where the depôt party
would call on their way back.'

Thus Scott came on Wednesday, February 22, to receive the news which was bound to occupy his
thoughts, however resolutely he refused to allow it to interfere in any way with his plans.
At 3 P.M. on Saturday Scott turned out and saw a short black line on the horizon towards White
Island. Presently he made certain that it was Bowers and his companions, but they were traveling
fast and failed to see Scott's camp; so when the latter reached Corner Camp he did not find
Bowers, but was glad to see five pony walls and consequently to know that all the animals were
still alive.

Having depôted six full weeks' provisions, Scott, Cherry-Garrard and Crean started for home,
leaving the others to bring James Pigg by easier stages. The next day, however, had to be spent
in the tent owing to a howling blizzard, and not until the Tuesday did Scott reach Safety Camp,
where he found that the ponies were without exception terribly thin, and that Weary Willy was
especially in a pitiable condition.

As no advantage was to be gained by staying at Safety Camp, arrangements were made immediately
for a general shift to Hut Point, and about four o'clock the two dog teams driven by Wilson
and Meares got safely away. Then the ponies were got ready to start, the plan being for them
to follow in the tracks of the dogs; the route was over about six miles of sea-ice, which,
owing to the spread of water holes, caused Scott to feel gravely anxious.

[Page 262] At the very start, however, Weary Willy fell down, and his plight was so critical
that Bowers, Cherry-Garrard and Crean were sent on with Punch, Cuts, Uncle Bill and Nobby to
Hut Point, while Scott, with Oates and Gran, decided to stay behind and attend to the sick
pony. But despite all the attempts to save him, Weary Willy died during the Tuesday night.

They turned to follow the sea-edge, and suddenly discovering a working crack, dashed over it
and hastened on until they were in line between Safety Camp and Castle Rock. Meanwhile Scott's
first thought was to warn E. Evans' party which was traveling [Page 263] back from Corner Camp
with James Pigg. From them Scott heard alarming reports that the ponies were adrift on the sea-ice.

The startling incidents that had led to this state of affairs began very soon after Bowers,
Crean and Cherry-Garrard had left Safety Camp with the ponies. 'I caught Bowers up at the edge
of the Barrier,' Cherry-Garrard wrote in his diary, 'the dogs were on ahead and we saw them
turn and make right round Cape Armitage. "Uncle Bill" got done, and I took up the dog tracks
which we followed over the tide crack and well on towards Cape Armitage.

'The sea-ice was very weak, and we came to fresh crack after fresh crack, and at last to a
big crack with water squelching through for many feet on both [Page 264] sides. We all thought
it impossible to proceed and turned back.... The ponies began to get very done, and Bowers
decided to get back over the tide crack, find a snowy place, and camp.

'This had been considered with Scott as a possibility and agreed to. Of course according to
arrangements then Scott would have been with the ponies.

'We camped about 11 P.M. and made walls for the ponies. Bowers cooked with a primus of which
the top is lost, and it took a long time. He mistook curry powder for cocoa, and we all felt
very bad for a short time after trying it. Crean swallowed all his. Otherwise we had a good meal.

'While we were eating a sound as though ice had fallen outside down the tent made us wonder.
At 2 A.M. we turned in, Bowers went out, and all was quiet. At 4.30 A.M. Bowers was wakened
by a grinding sound, jumped up, and found the situation as follows:--

'The whole sea-ice had broken up into small floes, from ten to thirty or forty yards across.
We were on a small floe, I think about twenty yards across, two sledges were on the next floe,
and "Cuts" had disappeared down the opening. Bowers shouted to us all and hauled the two sledges
on to our floe in his socks. We packed anyhow, I don't suppose a camp was ever struck quicker.
It seemed to me impossible to go on with the ponies and I said so, but Bowers decided to try.

As soon as Scott had considered the latest development of the situation
he sent Gran back to Hut Point with Wilson and Meares, and started
with Oates, Crean, and a sledge for the scene of the mishap. With the help
[Page 266]
of the Alpine rope both the men were dragged to the surface, and
after camp had been pitched at a safe distance from the edge all
hands started upon salvage work. The ice at this time lay close and
quiet against the Barrier edge, and some ten hours after Bowers and
Cherry-Garrard had been hauled up, the sledges and their contents
were safely on the Barrier. But then, just as the last loads were
saved, the ice began to drift again, and so, for the time, nothing
could be done for the ponies except to leave them well-fed upon
their floes. Before breakfast
we discovered the ponies had drifted away. We had tried to anchor
their floes with the Alpine rope, but the anchors had drawn. Then it was decided that Atkinson should go on to Hut Point
in the morning to take news to Wilson, Meares and Gran, who were
looking after the dogs, and having a wretched time in trying to
make two sleeping-bags do the work of three.
    ANON.

With the certainty of having to stay in the Discovery hut for some time, the party set to work
at once to make it as comfortable as possible.

As regards food almost an unlimited supply of biscuit was available, and during a walk to Pram
Point on Monday, March 6, Scott and Wilson found that the sea-ice in Pram Point Bay had not
gone out and was crowded with seals, a happy find that guaranteed the party as much meat as
they wanted. The blizzard continued until noon on Tuesday, on which day the Western Geological
Party (Griffith Taylor, Wright, Debenham and P.O. Evans) returned to the hut after a successful
trip. Every effort had been made to make the dogs comfortable, but the changes of wind made
it impossible to give them shelter in all directions. At least five of them were in a sorry
plight, and half a dozen others were by no means strong, but whether because they were constitutionally
harder or whether better fitted by nature to protect themselves the other ten or a dozen animals
were as fit as they could be. As it was found to be impossible to keep the dogs comfortable
in the traces, the majority [Page 271] of them were allowed to run loose; for although Scott
feared that this freedom would mean that there would be some fights to the death, he thought
it preferable to the risk of losing the animals by keeping them on the leash. The main difficulty
with them was that when the ice once got thoroughly into the coats their hind legs became half
paralyzed with cold, but by allowing them to run loose it was hoped that they would be able
to free themselves of this serious trouble. Stock therefore was taken of their resources, and
arrangements were made for a much longer stay than had been anticipated. A week later the ice,
though not thickening rapidly, held south of Hut Point, but the stretch from Hut Point to Turtle
Back Island still refused to freeze even in calm weather, and Scott began to think that they
might not be able to get back to Cape Evans before May. Soon afterwards, however, the sea began
to freeze over completely, and on Thursday evening, April 6, a program, subject to the continuance
of good weather, was arranged for a shift to Cape Evans. 'It feels good,' Cherry-Garrard wrote,
'to have something doing in the air.' But the weather prevented them from starting on the appointed
day, [Page 272] and although Scott was most anxious to get back and see that all was well at
Cape Evans, the comfort achieved in the old hut was so great that he confessed himself half-sorry
to leave it. 'Fun over a fry I made in my new penguin lard.

In fine weather they marched past Castle Rock, and it soon became evident that they must go
well along the ridge before descending, and that the difficulty would be to get down over the
cliffs. Seven and a half miles from the start they reached Hutton Rocks, a very icy and wind-swept
spot, and as the wind rose and the light became bad at the critical moment they camped for
a short time. Half an hour later the weather cleared and a possible descent to the ice cliffs
could be seen, but between Hutton Rock [Page 274] and Erebus all the slope was much cracked
and crevassed. A clear track to the edge of the cliffs was chosen, but on arriving there no
low place could be found (the lowest part being 24 feet sheer drop), and as the wind was increasing
and the snow beginning to drift off the ridge a quick decision had to be made.

Then Scott went to the edge, and having made standing places to work the Alpine rope, Bowers.,
E. Evans and Taylor were lowered. Next the sledges went down fully packed and then the remainder
of the party, Scott being the last to go down. It was a neat and speedy piece of work, and
completed in twenty minutes without serious frost-bites.

The surface of ice covered with salt crystals made pulling very heavy to Glacier Tongue, which
they reached about 5.30 P.M. A stiff incline on a hard surface followed, but as the light was
failing and cracks were innumerable, several of the party fell in with considerable risk of
damage. Under the circumstances Scott decided to push on to Cape Evans, but darkness suddenly
fell upon them, and after very heavy pulling for many hours they were so totally unable to
see anything ahead, that at 10 P.M. they were compelled to pitch their camp under little Razor
Back Island. During the night the wind began to rise, and in the morning a roaring blizzard
was blowing, and obviously the ice on which they had pitched [Page 275] their camp was none
too safe. For hours they waited vainly for a lull, until at 3 P.M. Scott and Bowers went round
the Island, with the result that they resolved to shift their camp to a little platform under
the weather side.

The wind moderated during the night, and early in the morning the party in a desperately cold
and stiff breeze and with frozen clothes were again under weigh. When, however, the hut had
been erected and he found that its foundation was only eleven feet above the level of the sea-ice,
he could not rid himself entirely of misgivings.

As events turned out the hut was safe and sound enough, but not until Scott reached it, on
April 13, did he realize how anxious he had been. Very soon afterwards the travelers were seen
by two men at work near the stables, and then the nine occupants (Simpson, Day, Nelson, Ponting,
Lashly, Clissold, Hooper, Anton and Demetri) came rapidly to meet and welcome them. In a minute
the most important events of the quiet station life were told, the worst news being that one
pony, named Hacken-schmidt, and one dog had died. For the rest the hut arrangements had worked
admirably, and the scientific routine of observations was in full swing.

After their primitive life at the Discovery hut the interior space of the home at Cape Evans
seemed palatial, and the comfort luxurious. There the prevailing note was neatness, and to
Day's mechanical skill everyone paid tribute. The heating, lighting and ventilating arrangements
[Page 278] of the hut had been left entirely in his charge, and had been carried out with admirable
success. The cook's corner was visited next, and Scott was very surprised to see the mechanical
ingenuity shown by Clissold. With Lashly's help, Anton had completed the furnishing of the
stables in a way that was both neat and effective.

Only five or six dogs had been left in Demetri's charge, and it was at once evident that every
care had been taken of them; not only had shelters been made, but a small 'lean to' had also
been built to serve as a hospital for any sick animal. The impressions, in short, that Scott
received on his return to Cape Evans were almost wholly pleasant, and in happy contrast with
the fears that had assailed him on the homeward route.

Not for long, however, did he, Bowers and Crean stay to enjoy the comforts of Cape Evans, as
on [Page 279] Monday, April 17, they were off again to Hut Point with two 10-foot sledges,
a week's provisions of sledding food, and butter, oatmeal, &c., for the hut. Scott, Lashly,
Day and Demetri took the first sledge; Bowers, Nelson, Crean and Hooper the second; and after
a rather adventurous journey, in which 'Lashly was splendid at camp work as of old,' they reached
Hut Point at 1 P.M. on the following day, and found everyone well and in good spirits. The
party left at the hut were, however, very short of seal-meat, a cause of anxiety, because until
the sea froze over there was no possibility of getting the ponies back to Cape Evans. But three
seals were reported on the Wednesday and promptly killed, and so Scott, satisfied that this
stock was enough for twelve days, resolved to go back as soon as the weather would allow him.
On this journey Scott, Wilson, Atkinson and Crean pulled one sledge, and Bowers, Oates, Cherry-Garrard
and Hooper the other. Scott's party were the leaders, and their sledge dragged so fearfully
that the men with the second sledge had a very easy time in keeping up. Then Crean declared
that although the loads were equal there was a great difference in the sledges. Clissold, however,
was at hand with 'just the right meal,' an enormous dish of rice and figs, and cocoa in a bucket.
The sledding season was at an end, and Scott admitted that in spite of all the losses they
had sustained it was good to be home again, while Wilson, Oates, Atkinson and Cherry-Garrard,
who had not seen the hut since it had been fitted out, were astonished at its comfort.

On Sunday, April 23, two days after the return from Hut Point, the sun made it's last appearance
and the winter work was begun. Ponies for exercise were allotted to Bowers, Cherry-Garrard,
Hooper, Clissold, P.O. Evans and Crean, besides Oates and Anton, but in making this allotment
Scott was obliged to add a warning that those who exercised the ponies would not necessarily
lead them in the spring.

Wilson at once began busily to paint, and Atkinson was equally busy unpacking and setting up
his sterilizers and incubators. Wright began to wrestle with the electrical instruments; Oates
started to make bigger stalls in the stables; Cherry-Garrard employed himself [Page 281] in
building a stone house for taxidermy and with a view to getting hints for a shelter at Cape
Crozier during the winter, while Taylor and Debenham took advantage of the last of the light
to examine the topography of the peninsula. E. Evans surveyed the Cape and its neighborhood,
and Simpson and Bowers, in addition to their other work, spent hours over balloon experiments.
In fact everyone was overflowing with energy.

On Friday, April 28, Scott, eager to get the party safely back from Hut Point, hoped that the
sea had at last frozen over for good, but a gale on the following day played havoc with the
ice; and although the strait rapidly froze again, the possibility of every gale clearing the
sea was too great to be pleasant. Obviously, however, it was useless to worry over a state
of affairs that could not be helped, and the arrangements for passing the winter steadily progressed.

At Scott's request Cherry-Garrard undertook the editorship of the South Polar Times and the
following notice was issued:

  The first number of the South Polar Times will be published
  on Midwinter Day.

  All are asked to send in contributions, signed anonymously,
  and to place these contributions in this box as soon as possible.
  No contributions for this number will be accepted after May 31.

  A selection of these will be made for publication. It is not
  intended that the paper shall be too scientific.

[Page 282]
  Contributions may take the form of prose, poetry or drawing.
  Contributors whose writings will lend themselves to illustration
  are asked to consult with the Editor as soon as possible.

                                     The Editor,
                                            S. P. T.

The editor, warned by Scott that the work was not easy and required a lot of tact, at once
placed great hopes in the assistance he would receive from Wilson, and how abundantly these
hopes were fulfilled has been widely recognized not only by students of Polar literature, but
also by those who admire art merely for art's sake.

On the evening of Tuesday, May 2, Wilson opened the series of winter lectures with a paper
on 'Antarctic Flying Birds,' and in turn Simpson, Taylor, Ponting, Debenham and others lectured
on their special subjects. But still the Discovery hut party did not appear, although the strait
(by May 9) had been frozen over for nearly a week; and repeatedly Scott expressed a wish that
they would return. In the meantime there was work and to spare for everyone, and as the days
went by Scott was also given ample opportunities to get a thorough knowledge of his companions.
This will be no small help to me and one which others never could have given. In fact there
is no one idle, and no one who has the least prospect of idleness. With this opinion there
was general agreement, for as regards glacier and summit work everyone seemed to distrust the
dogs. At the end of the lecture he asked that the problem should be thought over and freely
discussed, and that any suggestions should be brought to his notice. 'It's going to be a tough
job; that is better realized the more one dives into it.'

At last, on May 13, Atkinson brought news that the dogs were returning, and soon afterwards
Meares and his team arrived, and reported that the ponies were not far behind. For more than
three weeks the weather at Hut Point had been exceptionally calm and fine, and with joy Scott
saw that all of the dogs were looking remarkably well, and that the two ponies also seemed
to have improved. This was the third animal that had died without apparent reason at winter-quarters,
and Scott became more than ever convinced that to place any confidence in the dog teams would
be a mistake.

On Monday, May 22, Scott, Wilson, Bowers, Atkinson, P.O. Evans and Clissold went off to Cape
Royds with a go-cart which consisted of a framework of steel tubing supported on four bicycle
wheels-- and sleeping-bags, a cooker and a small quantity of provisions. The night was spent
in Shackleton's hut, where a good quantity of provisions was found; but the most useful articles
that the party discovered were five hymn-books, for hitherto the Sunday services had not been
fully choral because seven hymn-books were all that could be mustered.

June 6 was Scott's birthday, a fact which his small company did
not forget. At lunch an immense birthday cake appeared, the top
of which had been decorated by Clissold with various devices in
chocolate and crystallized fruit, a flag and photographs of Scott.
[Page 287]
A special dinner followed, and to this sumptuous meal they sat down
with their sledge banners hung around them. He ought to know what the true course is to reach one depôt
   from another.

3. He should be able to take an observation with the theodolite. About 7 A.M. Clissold began
to prepare breakfast, and half an hour later Hooper started to sweep the floor and lay the
table. Between 8 and 8.30 the men were out and about doing odd jobs, Anton going off to feed
the ponies, Demetri to see to the dogs. Repeatedly Hooper burst upon the slumberers with announcements
of the time, and presently Wilson and Bowers met in a state of nature beside a washing basin
filled with snow and proceeded to rub glistening limbs with this chilly substance. A little
later others with less hardiness could be seen making the most of a meager allowance of water.
A few laggards invariably ran the nine o'clock rule very close, and a little pressure had to
be applied so that they should not delay the day's work.

By 9.20 breakfast was finished, and in ten minutes the table was cleared. Then for four hours
the men were steadily employed on a program of preparation for sledding. About 1.30 a cheerful
half-hour was spent over the mid-day meal, and afterwards, if the [Page 290] weather permitted,
the ponies were exercised, and those who were not employed in this way generally exercised
themselves in some way or other. After this the officers went steadily on with their special
work until 6.30, when dinner was served and finished within the hour. Then came reading, writing,
games, and usually the gramophone, but three nights of the week were given up to lectures.

Extra bathing took place either on Saturday afternoon or Sunday morning; chins were shaven,
and possibly clean clothes put on. 'Such signs, with the regular service on Sunday, mark the
passage of the weeks. It is not a very active life, perhaps, but certainly not an idle one.
Few of us sleep more than eight hours of the twenty-four.'

On June 19, Day gave a lecture on his motor sledge and was very hopeful of success, but Scott
again expressed his doubts and fears. Everyone at once gathered at the top of [Page 291] the
table; 'It was like a lot of schoolgirls round a teacher' is the editor's description of the
scene, and Scott read aloud most of the contents. An article called 'Valhalla,' written by
Taylor, some verses called 'The Sleeping Bag,' and Wilson's illustrations to 'Antarctic Archives'
were the popular favorites; indeed the editor attributed the success of the paper mainly to
Wilson, though Day's delightful cover of carved venesta wood and sealskin was also 'a great
help.' As all the contributions were anonymous great fun was provided by attempts to guess
the various authors, and some of the denials made by the contributors were perhaps more modest
than strictly truthful.

These festive proceedings, however, were almost solemn when compared
with the celebrations of the evening. In preparation for dinner the
'Union Jacks' and sledge flags were hung about the large table,
and at seven o'clock everyone sat down to a really good dinner. Fearing in his heart of hearts that some of the company
did not realize how rapidly the weeks were passing, and that in
consequence work which ought to have been in full swing had barely
been begun, he went on to say that it was time they knew how they
stood in every respect, and especially thanked the officer in charge
of the stores and those who looked after the
[Page 292]
animals, for knowing the exact position as regards provision and
transport. Then he said that in respect to the future chance must
play a great part, but that experience showed him that no more
fitting men could have been chosen to support him on the journey
to the South than those who were to start in that direction in
the following spring.
Thus the high festival of Midwinter was celebrated in the most
convivial way, but that it was so reminiscent of a Christmas spent
in England was partly, at any rate, due to those kind people who
had anticipated the celebration by providing presents and other
tokens of their interest in the expedition.
    SHAKESPEARE.

During the latter part of June the Cape Crozier Party were busy in making preparations for
their departure. The object of their journey to the Emperor penguin rookery in the cold and
darkness of an Antarctic winter was to secure eggs at such a stage as could furnish a series
of early embryos, by means of which alone the particular points of interest in the development
of the bird could be worked out. As the Emperor is peculiar in nesting at the coldest season
of the year, this journey entailed the risk of sledge traveling in mid-winter, and the travelers
had also to traverse about a hundred miles of the Barrier surface, and to cross a chaos of
crevasses which had previously taken a party as much as two hours to cross by daylight.

Such was the enterprise for which Wilson, Bowers and Cherry-Garrard were with the help of others
making preparations, and apart from the [Page 295] extraordinarily adventurous side of this
journey, it was most interesting because the travelers were to make several experiments. Each
man was to go on a different food scale, eiderdown sleeping-bags were to be carried inside
the reindeer ones, and a new kind of crampon and a double tent were to be tried. On the morning
of that day the wind blew furiously, but it moderated a little in the afternoon when Atkinson
and Gran, without Scott's knowledge, decided to start over the floe for the North and South
Bay thermometers respectively. This happened at 5.30 P.M., and Gran had returned by 6.45, but
not until later did Scott hear that he had only gone two or three hundred yards from the land,
and that it had taken him nearly an hour to find his way back.

[Page 296] Atkinson's continued absence passed unnoticed until dinner was nearly finished,
but Scott did not feel seriously alarmed until the wind sprang up again and still the wanderer
did not return. At 9.30, P.O. Evans, Crean and Keohane, who had been out looking for him, returned
without any news, and the possibility of a serious accident had to be faced. Organized search
parties were at once dispatched, Scott and Clissold alone remaining in the hut. And as the
minutes slipped slowly by Scott's fears naturally increased, as Atkinson had started for a
point not much more than a mile off and had been away more than five hours. From that fact
only one conclusion could be drawn, and there was but small comfort to be got from the knowledge
that every spot which was likely to be the scene of an accident would be thoroughly searched.

Thus 11 o'clock came, then 11.30 with its six hours of absence; and the strain of waiting became
almost unbearable. But a quarter of an hour later Scott heard voices from the Cape, and presently,
to his extreme relief, Meares and Debenham appeared with Atkinson, who was badly frost-bitten
in the hand, and, as was to be expected after such an adventure, very confused.

At 2 A.M. Scott wrote in his diary, 'The search parties have returned and all is well again,
but we must have no more of these very unnecessary escapades. Yet it is impossible not to realize
that this bit of experience has done more than all the talking I could have [Page 297] ever
accomplished to bring home to our people the dangers of a blizzard.'

On investigation it was obvious that Atkinson had been in great danger. First of all he had
hit Inaccessible Island, and not until he arrived in its lee did he discover that his hand
was frost-bitten. When the moon appeared he judged its bearing well, and as he traveled homeward
was vastly surprised to see the real Inaccessible Island appear on his left. It was Scott's
turn for duty on Saturday night, and whenever he had to go out of doors the impossibility of
enduring such conditions for any length of time was impressed forcibly upon him. The fine snow
beat in behind his wind guard, the gusts took away his breath, and ten paces against the wind
were enough to cause real danger of a frost-bitten face.

By Tuesday the temperature had risen to +5° or +7°, but the gale still continued and the air
was thick with snow. The knowledge, however, that the dogs were comfortable was a great consolation
to Scott, and he also found both amusement and pleasure in observing the customs of the people
in charge of the stores. The policy of every storekeeper was to have something up his sleeve
for a rainy day, and an excellent policy Scott thought it. And the following night brought
not only a continuance of the bad weather but also bad news. At mid-day one of the best ponies,
Bones, suddenly went off his feed, and in spite of Oates' and Anton's most careful attention
he soon became critically ill. Oates gave him an opium pill and later on a second, and sacks
were heated and placed on the suffering animal, but hour after hour passed without any improvement.
As the evening wore on Scott again and again visited the stable, only to hear the same tale
from Oates and Crean,[1] who never left their patient. So far, since the return to Cape Evans,
the ponies had given practically no cause for anxiety, and in consequence Scott's hopes that
all would continue to be well with them had steadily grown; but this shock shattered his sense
of security, and although various alterations were made in the arrangements of the stables
and extra [Page 300] precautions were taken as regards food, he was never again without alarms
for the safety of the precious ponies.

Another raging blizzard swept over Cape Evans on July 22 and 23, but the spirit of good comradeship
still survived in spite of the atrocious weather and the rather monotonous life. Quite obviously
the main part of their afflictions arose from sheer lack of sleep, and after a night's rest
they were very different people both in mind and body. Never was such a sturdy, active, undefeatable
little man.'

Gradually Scott gathered an account of this wonderful journey from the three travelers who
had made it. Although in this fearful cold the air was comparatively still, occasional little
puffs of wind eddied across the snow plain with blighting effect. Sometimes they found [Page
302] themselves high on the slopes of Terror on the left of the track, sometimes diving on
the right amid crevasses and confused ice disturbance. Three days were spent in building the
stone walls and completing the roof with the canvas brought for the purpose, and then at last
they could attend to the main object of their journey.

The scant twilight at mid-day was so short that a start had to be made in the dark, and consequently
they ran the risk of missing their way in returning without light. At last the sea-ice was
reached, but by that time the light was so far spent that everything had to be rushed. Instead
of the 2,000 or 3,000 nesting birds that had been seen at this rookery in Discovery days, they
could only count about a hundred. As a reason for this a suggestion was made that possibly
the date was too early, and that if the birds had not permanently deserted the rookery only
the first arrivals had been seen.

With no delay they killed and skinned three penguins to get blubber for their stove, and with
six eggs, only three of which were saved, made a hasty dash [Page 303] for their camp, which
by good luck they regained.

On that same night a blizzard began, and from moment to moment increased in fury. Inside the
hut they waited for the roof to vanish, and wondered, while they vainly tried to make it secure,
what they could do if it went. After fourteen hours it disappeared, as they were trying to
pin down one corner. Thereupon the smother of snow swept over them, and all they could do was
to dive immediately for their sleeping-bags. Once Bowers put out his head and said, 'We're
all right,' in as ordinary tones as he could manage, whereupon Wilson and Cherry-Garrard replied,
'Yes, we're all right'; then all of them were silent for a night and half a day, while the
wind howled and howled, and the snow entered every chink and crevice of their sleeping-bags.

'This gale,' Scott says, 'was the same (July 23) in which we registered our maximum wind force,
and [Page 304] it seems probable that it fell on Cape Crozier even more violently than on us.'

The wind fell at noon on the following day, and the wretched travelers then crept from their
icy nests, spread the floorcloth over their heads, and lit their primus. For the first time
in forty-eight hours they tasted food, and having eaten their meal under these extraordinary
conditions they began to talk of plans to build shelters on the homeward route. Every night,
they decided, they must dig a large pit and cover it as best they could with their floorcloth.

Fortune, however, was now to befriend them, as about half a mile from the hut Bowers discovered
their tent practically uninjured. Indeed it is scarcely possible to realize the horrible discomforts
of these three forlorn travelers, as they plodded back across the Barrier in a temperature
constantly below -60°. Bowers, with his capacity for sleeping under the most distressing conditions,
was 'absolutely magnificent'; and the story of how he arranged a line by which he fastened
the cap of the tent to himself, so that if it went away a second time it should not be unaccompanied,
is only one of the many tales of his resource and determination.

In addition to the eggs that the party had brought back and the knowledge of the winter conditions
on [Page 306] the Barrier that they had gained, their journey settled several points in connection
with future sledding work. Then a middle course was struck which gave a proportion agreeable
to all of them, and which at the same time suited the total quantities of their various articles
of food. The only change that was suggested was the addition of cocoa for the evening meal,
because the travelers, thinking that tea robbed them of their slender chance of sleep, had
contented themselves with hot water. 'In this way,' Scott decided, 'we have arrived at a simple
and suitable ration for the inland plateau.'

Of the sleeping-bags there was little to be said, for although the eiderdown bag might be useful
for a short spring trip, it became iced up too quickly to be much good on a long journey. Bowers
never used his eiderdown bag,[1] and in some miraculous manner he managed more than once to
turn his reindeer bag. The weights of the sleeping-bags before and after the journey give some
idea of the ice collected.

[Footnote 1: He insisted upon giving it to Cherry-Garrard. 'It was,' the latter says, 'wonderfully
self-sacrificing of him, more than I can write. I felt a brute to take it, but I was getting
useless unless I got some sleep, which my big bag would not allow.']

[Page 307]
                                       Starting  Final
                                       Weight    Weight
  Wilson, reindeer and eiderdown.      17 lbs.   40 lbs.

The double tent was considered a great success, and the new crampons were much praised except
by Bowers, whose fondness for the older form was not to be shaken. On August 10, Scott [Page
308] and the new masters were to take charge on September 1, so that they could exercise their
respective animals and get to know them as well as possible. The new arrangement was:

  Bowers             Victor
  Wilson             Nobby
  Atkinson           Jehu
  Wright             Chinaman
  Cherry-Garrard     Michael
  Evans (P.O.)       Snatcher
  Crean              Bones
  Keohane            Jimmy Pigg
  Oates              Christopher
  Scott and Oates    Snippets.

On the same day Oates gave his second excellent lecture on 'Horse Management,' and afterwards
the problem of snow-shoes was seriously discussed. Besides the problem of the form of the shoes
was also the question of the means of attachment, and as to both points all sorts of suggestions
were made. At that time Scott's opinion was that the pony snow-shoes they had, which were made
on the grating or racquet principle, would probably be the best, the only alternative seeming
to be to perfect the principle of the lawn mowing shoe. 'Perhaps,' he adds, 'we shall come
to both kinds: the first for the quiet animals and the last for the more excitable. I am confident
the matter is of first importance.'

[Page 309] Ten days later Scott had to admit that the ponies were becoming a handful, and for
the time being they would have been quite unmanageable if they had been given any oats. As
it was, Christopher, Snippets and Victor were suffering from such high spirits that all three
of them bolted on the 21st.

A prolonged gale arrived just as the return of the sun was due, and for three days everyone
was more or less shut up in the hut. Although the temperature was not especially low anyone
who went outside for even the briefest moment had to dress in wind clothes, because exposed
woolen or cloth materials became so instantaneously covered with powdery crystals, that when
they were brought back into the warmth they were soon wringing wet. When, however, there was
no drift it was quicker and easier to slip on an overcoat, and for his own garment of this
description Scott admits a sentimental attachment. The shouts and songs of men could be heard
for miles, and the outlook on life of every member of the expedition seemed suddenly to have
changed. For if there is little that is new to be said about the return of the sun in Polar
regions, it must always be a very real and important event to those who have lived without
it for so many months, and who have almost forgotten the sensation of standing in brilliant
sunshine.

With the return of the sun preparations for the summer campaign continued more zealously and
industriously than ever, and what seemed like a real start was made when Meares and Demetri
went off to Hut Point on September 1 with the dog teams. For such an early departure there
was no real reason unless Meares hoped to train the dogs better when he had got them to himself;
but he chose to start, and Scott, after setting out the work he had to do, left him to come
and go between the two huts as he pleased.

Meanwhile with Bowers' able assistance Scott set to work at sledding figures, and although
he felt as the scheme developed that their organization would not be found wanting, he was
also a little troubled by the immense amount of detail, and by the fact that every arrangement
had to be more than usually elastic, so that both the complete success and the utter failure
of [Page 312] the motors could be taken fully into account. E. Evans, Gran and Forde, however,
were to go and re-mark Corner Camp, and then Meares with his dogs was to carry as much fodder
there as possible, while Bowers, Simpson, P.O. Evans and Scott were to 'stretch their legs'
across the Western Mountains. But whatever the outcome of these motors, his belief in the possibility
of motor traction for Polar work remained, though while it was in an untried and evolutionary
state he was too cautious and wise a leader to place any definite reliance upon it.

If, however, Scott was more than a little doubtful about the motors, he was absolutely confident
about the men who were chosen for the Southern advance. On the Southern trip he had determined
to make a better show of photographic work than had yet been accomplished, and with Ponting
as eager to help others as he was to produce good work himself an invaluable instructor was
at hand.

With the main objects of having another look at the Ferrar Glacier and of measuring the stakes
put out by Wright in the previous year, of bringing their sledge impressions up to date, and
of practicing with their cameras, Scott and his party started off to the west on the 15th,
without having decided precisely where they were going or how long they would stay away. On
the next day they came down the Glacier, and then went slowly up the coast, dipping into New
Harbor, where they climbed the moraine, took angles and collected rock specimens. Half recognizing
familiar features they turned towards it, and as they got close they saw that it was very like
their old Erebus Glacier Tongue. Then they sighted a flag upon it, and realized that it was
the piece broken off from the Erebus Tongue. So far the journey had been more pleasant than
Scott had anticipated, but two days after they had turned back a heavy blizzard descended upon
them, and although an attempt was made to continue marching, they were soon compelled to camp.
After being held up completely on the 27th they started again on the following day in a very
frost-biting wind. From time to time they were obliged to halt so that their frozen features
could be brought round, Simpson suffering more than the rest of the party; and with drift coming
on again they were weather-bound in their tent during the early part of the afternoon. At 3
P.M., however, the drift ceased, and they started off once more in a wind as biting as ever.
Thereupon a rush was made for a camp site, but the blizzard swept [Page 317] upon them, and
in the driving snow they found it utterly impossible to set up their inner tent, and could
only just manage to set up the outer one. Bowers is a little wonder. I realize all that he
must have done for the C. Crozier Party in their far severer experience.'

Late as the hour was when the travelers appeared at Cape Evans, everyone was soon up and telling
Scott what had happened during his absence. E. Evans, Gran and Forde had reached Corner Camp
and found that it showed up well, and consequently all anxiety as to the chance of finding
One Ton Camp was removed. Forde, however, had got his hand so badly frost-bitten that he was
bound to be incapacitated for some time, and this meant that the arrangements that had already
been made for a geological party to go to the west would in all probability have to be altered.

[Page 318] All of the ponies were reported to be very well, but Scott's joy at this news vanished
on October 3 when Atkinson reported that Jehu was still too weak to pull a load. Oates also
was having great trouble with Christopher, who did not appreciate being harnessed and generally
bolted at the mere sight of a sledge. Worries, however, were in store, for later in the afternoon,
by which time Scott had returned to the hut, a telephone message from Nelson's igloo brought
the news that Clissold had fallen from a berg and hurt his back. In three minutes Bowers had
organized a sledge party, and fortunately Atkinson was on the spot and able to join it. Scott
himself at once hurried over the land, and found Ponting very distressed and Clissold practically
insensible.

It appeared that Clissold had been acting as Ponting's 'model,' and that they had been climbing
about the berg to get pictures. Ponting had lent his crampons and ice-axe to Clissold, but
the latter nevertheless missed his footing after one of the 'poses,' and after sliding over
a rounded surface of ice for some twelve feet, had dropped six feet on to a sharp angle in
the wall of the berg. Unquestionably Clissold was badly hurt, and although neither Wilson nor
Atkinson [Page 320] thought that anything very serious had happened, there was no doubt that
the accident would prevent him from taking the place allotted to him in the motor sledge party.
Thus there were two men on the sick list, and after all the trouble that had been taken to
get things ready for the summer journeys Scott naturally felt that these misfortunes were more
than a little deplorable. On the other hand, all was going well with the ponies, though Christopher's
dislike to sledges seemed rather to increase than to lessen. When once he was in the sledge
he had always behaved himself until October 13, when he gave a really great exhibition of perversity.
On this occasion a dog frightened him, and having twisted the rope from Oates' hands he bolted
for all he was worth. Two or three times he ran for Bowers and then he turned his attention
to Keohane, his plan being to charge from a short distance with teeth bared and heels flying.
By this time his antics had brought a small group to the scene, and presently Oates, Bowers,
Nelson and Atkinson managed to clamber on to the sledge. Undaunted, however, by this human
burden, he tried to treat it as he had the bales of hay, and he did manage to [Page 321] dispose
of Atkinson with violence; but the others dug their heels into the snow and succeeded at last
in tiring him out. Once again Scott expressed his conviction that the motors would be of little
assistance, though at the same time retaining his opinion that with more experience they might
have been of the greatest service. 'The trouble is that if they fail, no one will ever believe
this.'

The days at Cape Evans were now rapidly drawing to a close. Plans and preparations occupied
the attention of everyone, and Scott's time was almost wholly occupied in preparing details
and in writing.

'One of the greatest successes is Wright. He is very hard working, very thorough, and absolutely
ready for anything.

[Page 323] 'Cherry-Garrard is clean grit right through; one has caught glimpses of him in tight
places.

'Day has the sweetest temper and all sorts of other nice characteristics. Moreover he has a
very remarkable mechanical ability, and I believe is about as good a man as could have been
selected for his job.

'The men are equally fine. So as I sit [Page 324] here I am very satisfied with these things.
Accidents, however, were still to happen, for while Bowers was holding the ponies so [Page
325] that Wilson and Evans could unload them, Victor got the hook, which fastened the harness
to the trace of another pony, into his nose. Wilson and P.O. Evans at once started after their
ponies, and the former by means of a biscuit as a bait managed to catch Nobby west of Tent
Island, but Snatcher arrived, with a single trace and dangling sledge, by himself at Cape Evans.
Half an hour after Wilson had returned Bowers brought in Victor, who had a gash in his nose,
and was very much distressed. 'I don't know,' Scott says, 'how Bowers managed to hang on to
the frightened animal; I don't believe anyone else would have done so.... Two lessons arise.
Thus the Western Party was again delayed, the only compensation for this accident [Page 326]
being that Forde's hand would have a better chance of recovery while Debenham's knee was given
time to improve.

On the following day the motors seemed to be ready for the start, but various little defects
again cropped up, and not until the next morning did they get away. At first there were frequent
stops, but on the whole satisfactory progress was made, and as even a small measure of success
would, in Scott's opinion, be enough to show their ability to revolutionize Polar transport,
and so help to prevent the cruelty that is a necessary condition of animal transport, he was
intensely anxious about the result of this trial trip. As this subject was one which was of
the most supreme interest to Scott, it is well to quote the opinion of an expert upon these
motor sledges. 'It has been said that Captain Scott's sledges failed, and without further consideration
the design has been totally condemned, but this is quite unfair to the design; and it must
be admitted by everyone who has had anything to do with the sledges, and has any sort of knowledge
of mechanical principles, that it was the engine that failed, not the transmission gear at
all. The engine used was a four-cylinder air-cooled one, and most unexpectedly in the cold
climate of the Antarctic it over-heated and broke various parts, beyond possibility of repair
under the severe conditions. The reason of the breakdown therefore applies to any and every
form of motor sledge, and should a satisfactory engine be available for one form of sledge,
it is equally [Page 327] available for another. It therefore shows a lack of fair judgment
to condemn the Scott sledge for a breakdown, which would have applied equally to every form
of motor transport which could have been designed.'

Unquestionably the motor sledges did enough to make this unique experiment infinitely worth
trying, and on Friday, October 27, Scott declared that the machines had already vindicated
themselves. Even the seamen, who had been very doubtful about them, were profoundly impressed,
and P.O. Evans admitted that, 'if them things can go on like that, I reckon you wouldn't want
nothing else.'

As the days passed by, it was obvious that the Western Party--which
consisted of Taylor, Debenham, Gran and Forde--would have to leave
after the Southern Party.
  Whoever fears God, fears to sit at ease.
    E. B. BROWNING.

'As we are just off on our Southern journey, with a good chance of missing the ship on our
return,' Scott wrote before leaving Cape Evans on November 1, 'I send a word of greeting. We
are going away with high hopes of success and for the moment everything smiles, but where risks
must be taken the result must be dependent on chance to some extent.

'I am lucky in having with me the right men for the work; we have lived most happily together
through the long winter, and now all are fit, ready, and eager to go forward, and, apart from
the result, the work itself is extraordinarily fascinating.'

The march to Hut Point was begun in detachments, Scott leading Snippets and soon finding himself
where he wished to be, at the tail of the team. After all Jehu had refuted predictions by being
allowed to start, although so little confidence was still [Page 329] placed in him that on
the previous day he had been sent at his own pace to Hut Point. Chinaman was also 'an unknown
quantity,' but the chief trouble on the opening march was caused by the persistently active
Christopher, who kicked and bucked the whole way.

On this march, which reminded Scott of a regatta or a somewhat disorganized fleet with ships
of very unequal speed, a good knowledge was obtained of the various paces of the ponies, and
the plan of advance was, after some trouble, arranged. The start was to be made from Hut Point
in three parties--the very slow ponies, the medium paced, and the fliers. The motors with Day,
E. R. Evans, Lashly and Hooper (who had taken Clissold's place) were already on the way, and
the dogs, with Meares and Demetri, were to follow the main detachments.

Night marching was decided upon, and after supper good-bye was said to Hut Point, and Atkinson,
Wright and Keohane led off with Jehu, Chinaman and Jimmy Pigg. Two hours later Scott, Wilson
and Cherry-Garrard left, their ponies marching steadily and well together on the sea-ice. At
Safety Camp they found Atkinson, who reported that Chinaman and Jehu were already tired. The
last march, however, was more than a compensation for bad weather. The ponies, however, in
their new rugs and with sheltering walls as high as themselves could scarcely feel the wind,
and as this protection was a direct result of experience gained in the previous year, Scott
was glad to feel that some good had been obtained from that disastrous journey. But when the
snow began to fall the ponies as usual suffered, because it was impossible to devise any means
of keeping them comfortable in thick and driving snow. In catching the main party up so soon
Scott considered that Meares had played too much for safety, but at the same time it was encouraging
to know that the dogs would pull the loads assigned to them, and that they could face such
terrific winds.

The threatening weather continued until late on Tuesday night, and the question of starting
was left open for a long time, several of the party thinking it unwise to march. At last, however,
the decision was made to go, and the advance guard got away soon after midnight. Then, to Scott's
surprise and delight, he discovered that his fears about the ponies were needless. Both Jehu
and Chinaman took skittish little runs when their rugs were removed, and Chinaman even betrayed
a not altogether irresistible desire to buck. In fact the only pony that gave any trouble was
Christopher, and this not from any fatigue but from excessive spirit. Most of the ponies halted
now and again to get a mouthful of snow, but Christopher had still to be sent through with
a non-stop run, for his tricks and devices were as innumerable as ever. Oates had to cling
like grim death to his bridle until the first freshness had worn off, and this was a long rather
than a light task, as even after ten miles he was prepared to misbehave himself if he got the
smallest chance.

[Page 334] A few hundred yards from Camp 5 Bowers picked up a bale of forage and loaded it
on his sledge, bringing the weight to nearly 800 lbs. Victor, however, went on as though nothing
had happened, and although the surface was for the time wonderfully good, and it still remained
a question how the ponies would get on under harder conditions, Scott admitted that so far
the outlook was very encouraging. The cairns built in the previous year showed up very distinctly
and were being picked up with the greatest ease, and this also was an additional cause for
satisfaction because with pony walls, camp sites and cairns, the track on the homeward march
seemed as if it must be easy to follow. But during the last two miles of this stage all of
the ponies were together. 'It looked like a meet of the hounds, and Jehu ran away!!' was Cherry-Garrard's
account of this scene in his diary. But in Scott's opinion it was clearly not advantageous
to march in one detachment, because the slow advance-guard ponies were forced out of their
pace by joining [Page 335] with the others, while the fast rearguard had their speed reduced.
This, however, was a great day for Jehu, whose attempt to bolt, though scarcely amounting to
more than a sprawling canter, was freely acknowledged to be a creditable performance for a
pony who at the start had been thought incapable of doing a single march.

The weather now began to change rapidly for the worse, and in consequence the pleasure of marching
as rapidly vanished. In arriving at Camp 7 they had to struggle at first against a strong head
wind, and afterwards in a snowstorm. Wright, who was leading, found it so impossible to see
where he was going that he decided to camp some two miles short of the usual ten, but the ponies
continued to do well and this was a compensation for the curtailed distance.

A worse surface was in store for them when they started from Camp 7, in fact Scott and Wilson
described it as one of the worst they had ever seen. They are working splendidly.'

The surface was still bad and the weather horrid on the following day, but 5 miles out the
advance party came straight and true upon the last year's Bluff depôt. Here Scott found a note,
from which he learned the cheering news that E. Evans and his party must be the best part of
five days ahead. On the other hand, Atkinson had a very gloomy report to make of Chinaman,
who could, he thought, only last a few more miles. Oates, however, much more optimistic than
usual, considered that Chinaman would last for several days; and during another horrid march
to Camp 10 all the ponies did well, Jehu especially distinguishing himself.

'We shall be,' Scott wrote from this camp on Monday, November 13, 'in a better position to
know how we stand when we get to One Ton Camp, now only 17 or 18 miles, but I am anxious about
these beasts--very anxious, they are not the ponies they ought to have been, and if they pull
through well, all the thanks will be due to Oates. I trust the weather and surface conditions
will improve; both are rank bad at present.' The next stage took them within 7 or 8 miles of
One Ton Camp, and with a slightly improved surface and some sun the spirits of the party revived.
But, although the ponies were working splendidly, it was painful work for them to struggle
on through the snow, and Christopher's antics when harnessed were already a thing of the past--a
fact which [Page 337] would have been totally unregretted had it not been evidence that his
strength was also beginning to diminish. 80° 30'. The minimum thermometer left there in the
previous year showed -73°, which was rather less than Scott had expected.

After the day's rest the loads were re-organized, the stronger ponies taking on about 580 lbs.,
while the others had rather over 400 lbs. as their burden; and refreshed by their holiday all
of them marched into the next camp without any signs of exhaustion. By this time frost-bites
were frequent, both Oates and P.O. Evans being victims, while Meares, when told [Page 338]
that his nose was 'gone,' remarked that he was tired of it and that it would thaw out by and by!

While on the way to Camp 17 Scott's detachment found E. Evans and his party in Lat. 80° 32',
and heard that they had been waiting for six days, which they had spent in building a tremendous
cairn. All of them looked very fit, but they were also very hungry--an informing fact, as it
proved conclusively that a ration which was ample for the needs of men leading ponies, was
nothing like enough for those who were doing hard pulling work. Thus the provision that Scott
had made for summit work received a full justification, though even with the rations that were
[Page 339] to be taken he had no doubt that hunger would attack the party.

After some discussion it was decided to take Evans' motor party on in advance for three days,
and then that Day and Hooper should return. To-day we closed less than usual, so the crocks
must have been going very well. I feel we ought to get through now. Day and Hooper leave us
to-night.'

[Page 340] Referring to Jehu in his diary Cherry-Garrard re-marked how much Scott felt 'this
kind of thing,' and how cut up Atkinson was at the loss of his pony.

After Day and Hooper had turned back the party was re-arranged and started together. The man-haulers,
Atkinson, E. Evans and Lashly, went ahead with their gear on the 10-foot sledge, then came
Wright with Chinaman and Keohane with James Pigg, the rest following close behind them. But
although the two crocks had not been given their usual start, they stuck to their work so gallantly
that at the finish they were less than a quarter of a mile behind.

At Camp 22, in Lat. 81° 35' the Middle Barrier Depôt was made, and as they did not leave until
3 A.M. they were gradually getting back to day-marching. The next stage, however, of their
journey was struggled through under the greatest difficulties. At the start the surface was
bad, and the man-haulers in front made such heavy weather of it that they were repeatedly overtaken.
This threw the ponies out and prolonged the march so much that six hours were spent in reaching
the lunch camp. But bad as the first part of the march had been, the latter part was even worse.
The advance party started on ski, but had the greatest difficulty in keeping a course; and
presently snow began to fall heavily with a rise of temperature, and the ski became hopelessly
clogged. At this time the surface was terribly hard for pulling, and the man-haulers also found
it impossible to steer. The march of 13 miles was eventually completed, but under [Page 341]
the most harassing circumstances and with very tired animals. Chinaman was shot on this night,
but in struggling on until he was within go miles of the Glacier he had done more than was
ever expected of him; and with only four bags of forage left the end of all the ponies was
very near at hand.

During the march to Camp 25, Lat. 82° 21', 'the most unexpected and trying summer blizzard
yet experienced in this region' ceased, and prospects improved in every respect. While they
were marching the land showed up hazily, and at times looked remarkably close to them. It was,
Scott admitted, a relief no longer to have to lead his animal, for fond of Snippets as he was,
the vagaries of the animal were annoying when on the march. Thursday, November 30, brought
most pleasant weather with it, but the surface was so bad that all of the ponies, with the
exception of Nobby, began to show obvious signs of failure. A recurrence of 'sinking crusts'
(areas which gave way with a report) was encountered, and the ponies very often sank nearly
to their knees.

At Camp 27 Nobby was the only pony who did not show signs of extreme exhaustion, but forage
was beginning to get so scarce that even Nobby had nearly reached the end of his life. On this
night (December 1) Christopher was shot, and by no possibility could he be much regretted,
for he had given nothing but trouble at the outset, and as soon as his spirits began to fail
his strength had also disappeared. 'He has been a great disappointment,' Cherry-Garrard wrote,
'even James Pigg has survived him.'

A depôt, called the Southern Barrier Depôt, was left at Camp 27, so that no extra weight was
added to the loads of the other ponies. 'Three more marches [Page 343] ought to carry us through.

From Camp 28, Lat. But in the afternoon they found a better surface, and Scott, who was leading,
had to travel at a very steady pace to keep the lead.

When this march had finished they had reached the 83rd parallel, and were 'practically safe
to get through.' But with forage becoming scarcer and scarcer poor Bictor--to the great sorrow
of Bowers, [Page 344] who was very fond of him--had to be shot. Six ponies remained, and as
the dogs were doing splendidly, the chances of the party reaching the Glacier were excellent
if only they could see their way to it. Wild in his diary of Shackleton's journey remarked
on December 15 that it was the first day for a month on which he could not record splendid
weather. With Scott's party, however, a fine day had been the exception rather than the rule,
and the journey had been one almost perpetual fight against bad weather and bad surfaces. At
first there seemed to be just a chance that they might be able to march, but while they were
having breakfast a full gale blew up from the south; 'the strongest wind I have known here
in summer.' In a very short time the pony wall was blown down, the sledges were buried, and
huge drifts had collected. In heavy drift everyone turned out to make up the pony walls, but
the flanking wall was blown down three times before the job was completed. About mid-day the
weather improved and soon afterwards the clouds broke and the land appeared; and when they
got away at [Page 345] 2 P.M., the sun was shining brightly. But this pleasant state of affairs
was only destined to last for one short hour; after that snow again began to fall, and marching
conditions became supremely horrible. The wind increased from the S.E., changed to S. W., where
for a time it remained, and then suddenly shifted to W.N.W., and afterwards to N.N.W., from
which direction it continued to blow with falling and drifting snow. But in spite of these
rapid and absolutely bewildering changes of conditions they managed to get 11-1/2 miles south
and to Camp 29 at 7 P.M. The man-haulers, however, camped after six miles, for they found it
impossible to steer a course. Quickly everyone started to build fresh walls for the ponies,
an uninviting task enough in a regular white flowing blizzard, but one which added [Page 346]
greatly to the comfort of the animals, who looked sleepy and bored, but not at all cold. Just
as the walls were finished the man-haulers came into camp, having been assisted in their course
by the tracks that the other parties had made.

Fortunately the wind moderated in the forenoon and by 2 P.M. they were off and in six hours
had placed 13 more miles to their credit. During this march the land was quite clearly in view,
and several uncharted glaciers of large dimensions were seen. The mountains were rounded in
outline, very massive, with excrescent peaks, one or two of the peaks on the foothills standing
bare and almost perpendicular. As it was 'gallant little Michael' had to be sacrificed when
the march was over. 'He walked away,' Cherry-Garrard wrote, 'and rolled on the way down, not
having done so when we got in. He died quite instantaneously. He was just like a naughty child
all the way and pulled all out; he has been a good friend and has a good record, 83° 22' S.
He was a bit done to-day, the blizzard had knocked him.'

By night the weather looked very uninviting, and they woke to find a raging, howling blizzard.
Previously the winds that had so constantly bothered them had lacked that very fine powdery
snow which is usually an especial feature of a blizzard, but on this occasion they got enough
and to spare of it. Anyone who went into the open for a minute or two was covered from head
to foot, and as the temperature was high the snow stuck where it fell. The heads, tails and
legs of the ponies were covered with ice, and they had to stand deep in snow. The sledges were
almost covered, and there were huge drifts about the tent. It was a scene on which no one wanted
to look longer than he could help, and after they had rebuilt the pony walls they retreated
sadly and soppingly into their bags. Even the small satisfaction of being able to see from
one tent to another was denied them, and Scott, while asking what on earth such weather could
mean at this [Page 348] time of year, stated emphatically that no party could possibly travel
against such a wind. And to add to their misery and misfortune the temperature remained so
high that the snow melted if it fell on anything except snow, with the result that tents, wind
clothes, night boots, &c., were all wet through; while water, dripping from the tent poles
and door, lay on the floor, soaked the sleeping-bags, and made the situation inconceivably
miserable.

The next day Scott described as 'miserable, [Page 349] utterly miserable. We have camped in
the "Slough of Despond."' When within twelve miles of the Glacier it was indeed the most cruel
fortune to be held up by such a raging tempest. The temperature at noon had risen to 33°, and
everything was more soakingly wet than ever, if that was possible. The ponies, too, looked
utterly desolate, and the snow climbed higher and higher about the walls, tents and sledges.
At night signs of a break came, but hopes of marching again were dashed on the following morning,
when the storm continued and the situation became most serious; after this day only one small
feed remained for the ponies, so that they had either to march or to sacrifice all the animals.
That, however, was not the most serious part, for with the help of the dogs they could without
doubt have got on. But what troubled Scott most intensely was that they had on this morning
(December 7) started on their summit rations, or, in other words, the food calculated to take
them on from the Glacier depôt had been begun.

In the meantime the storm showed no signs of abatement, and its character was as unpleasant
as ever. Nevertheless in the midst of these distressing conditions Scott managed to write,
'But yet, after all, one can go on striving, endeavoring to find a stimulation in the difficulties
that arise.'

Friday morning, however, did not bring any cause for hope. The snow was still falling heavily,
and they found themselves lying in pools of water that squelched whenever they moved. Under
such circumstances it was a relief to get outside, shift the tents and dig out the sledges.
All of the tents had been reduced to the smallest space by the gradual pressure of snow, the
old sites being deep pits with hollowed, icy, wet centers. The re-setting of them at least
made things more comfortable, and as the [Page 351] wind dropped about mid-day and a few hours
later the sky showed signs of breaking, hope once more revived; but soon afterwards snow was
falling again, and the position was rapidly becoming absolutely desperate.

To test the surface the man-haulers tried to pull a load during the afternoon, and although
it proved a tough job they managed to do it by pulling in ski. On foot the men sank to their
knees, and an attempt to see what Nobby could do under such circumstances was anything but
encouraging. The temperature also helped matters by falling to +26°, and in consequence the
water nuisance began to abate; and at the prospect of action on the following morning cheerful
sounds were once more heard in the camp. They look wonderfully fit, all things [Page 352] considered.
Everything looks more hopeful to-night, but nothing can recall four lost days.' During the
night Scott turned out two or three times to find the weather slowly improving, and at 8 o'clock
on December 9 they started upon a most terrible march to Camp 31.

The tremendous snowfall had made the surface intolerably soft, and the half-fed animals sank
deeper and deeper. None of them could be led for more than a few minutes, but if they were
allowed to follow the poor beasts did fairly well. Then when it seemed as if the limit had
been reached P.O. Evans saved the situation by putting the last pair of snow-shoes upon Snatcher,
who at once began to go on without much pressure, and was followed by the other ponies.

No halt was made for lunch, but after three or four laborious miles they found themselves engulfed
in pressures which added to the difficulties of their march. Still, however, they struggled
on, and by 8 P.M. they were within a mile of the slope ascending to the gap, which Shackleton
called the Gateway.

By this time the ponies, one and all, were quite exhausted.

When leaving this Camp Scott was very doubtful whether the loads could be pulled over such
an appalling surface, and that success attended their efforts was due mainly to the ski. The
start was delayed by the readjustments that had to be made, but when they got away at noon,
and with a 'one, two, three together' Scott's party began to pull their sledge, they were most
agreeably surprised to find it running fairly easily [Page 355] behind them. The first mile
was gained in about half an hour, but then they began to rise, and soon afterwards with the
slope becoming steeper and the surface getting worse they had to take off their ski. At 5 P.M.
they reached the top of the slope, and after tea started on the down grade. On this they had
to pull almost as vigorously as on the upward slope, but they could just manage to get along
on ski.

Evans and his party, however, were unable to keep up the pace set by the leaders, and when
they camped at 9.15 Scott heard some news that thoroughly alarmed him.

Before starting from Camp 32 they built a depôt (the Lower Glacier depôt), made it very conspicuous,
and left a good deal of gear there. Then at the very beginning of their march they got into
big pressure, and must have passed over several crevasses. After four hours, however, they
were clear of the pressure, and then they said good-bye to Meares and Demetri, who took back
a note from Scott to say that 'Things are not so rosy as they might be, but we keep our spirits
up and say the luck must turn. This is only to tell you that I find I can keep up with the
rest as well as of old.'

The start after lunch was anxious work, for the question whether they could pull their loads
had to be answered. In consequence they got a much better view of the southern side of the
main glacier than Shackleton's party had obtained, and a number of peaks not noticed previously
were observed. On the first stage of this march Scott's party was bogged time after [Page 358]
time, and do what they could their sledge dragged like a huge lump of lead. Evans' team had
been sent off in advance and kept well ahead until lunch-time. Then, when Scott admits being
'pretty well cooked,' the secret of their trouble was disclosed in a thin film with some hard
knots of ice on the runners of the sledge; these impediments having been removed they went
ahead without a hitch, and in a mile or two resumed their leading position. As they advanced
it became more and more evident that, with the whole of the lower valley filled with snow from
the storm, they would have been bogged had they been without ski. So slow in fact was the progress
they made, that on his sledge Scott decided at lunch to try the 10-foot runners under the cross-bars,
for the sledge was sinking so deeply that the cross-pieces were on the surface and acting as
brakes. Three hours were spent in securing the runners, and then Scott's party started and
promptly saw what difficulties the other teams were having.

In spite of the most desperate efforts to get along, Bowers and his men were so constantly
bogged that Scott soon passed them. Bowers' contingent followed without getting along so well,
and so Scott, whose party were having no difficulty with their load, exchanged sledges with
them, and a satisfactory morning's march was followed by still better work in the afternoon,
eleven or twelve miles being gained. During the afternoon they found that at last they could
start their sledges by giving one good heave, and so, for the first time, they were at liberty
to stop when they liked without the fear of horrible jerks before they could again set the
sledge going. Patches of ice and hard névé were beginning to show through in places, and had
not the day's work been interrupted by a snowstorm at 5 P.M. their march would have been a
really good one, but, as it was, eleven more miles had to be put to their credit. The weather
looked, however, very threatening as they turned in for the night, and Scott expressed a fervent
hope that they were not going to be afflicted by snowstorms as they approached the worst part
of the glacier.

As was to be expected after the storm they found the surface difficult when the march was resumed,
but by sticking to their work for over ten hours--'the limit of time to be squeezed into one
day'--they covered eleven miles, and altered greatly the aspect of the glacier. Beginning the
march as usual on ski, they had to take them off in the afternoon because they struck such
a peculiarly difficult surface that the sledges were constantly being brought up. Then on foot
they made better progress, though no advance could be made without the most strenuous labour.
The brittle crust would hold for a pace or two, and then let them down with a bump, while now
and again a leg went down a crack in the hard ice underneath. So [Page 361] far, since arriving
among the disturbances, which increased rapidly towards the end of the march, they had not
encountered any very alarming crevasses, though a large quantity of small ones could be seen.
The sledges ran fairly well if only the haulers could keep their feet, but on the rippled ice
which they were crossing it was impossible to get anything like a firm foothold. Still, however,
they stuck most splendidly to their [Page 362] task, and on the following day even a better
march was made to Camp 41.

Starting on a good surface they soon came to a number of criss-cross cracks, into two of which
Scott fell and badly bruised his knee and thigh. Then they reached an admirably smooth ice
surface over which they traveled at an excellent pace. A long hour was spent over the halt
for lunch, during which angles, photographs and sketches were taken, and continuing to make
progress in the second part of the day's march they finished up with a gain of 17 miles. Pulling
the sledges in crampons was not at all difficult on the hard snow and on hard ice with patches
of snow. At night they camped in Lat. 84° 59' 6", and then Scott had to perform a task that
he most cordially disliked. I dreaded this necessity of choosing--nothing could be more heartrending.
And at mid-day, while they were in the worst of places, a fog rolled up and kept them in their
tents for nearly three hours.

During this enforced delay, Scott wrote a letter which was taken back by the returning party.
So here we are practically on the summit and up to date in the provision line. We ought to
get through.'

After the fog had cleared off they soon got out of the worst crevasses, and on to a snow slope
that led past Mount Darwin. The pull up the slope was long and stiff, but by holding on until
7.30 P.M. they got off a good march and found a satisfactory place for their depôt. Fortunately
the weather was both calm and bright, and all the various sorting arrangements that had to
be made before the returning party left them were carried out under most favorable conditions.

'It was a sad job saying good-bye,' Cherry-Garrard wrote in his diary, 'and I know some eyes
were a bit dim. It was thick and snowing when we started after making the depôt, and the last
we saw of them as we swung the sledge north, was a black dot just disappearing over the next
ridge, and a big white pressure wave ahead of them.'

[Page 365] Then the returning party set off on their homeward march, and arrived at Cape Evans
on January 28, 1912, after being away for three months.

Repairs to the sledgemeter delayed the advancing party for some time during their first march
under the new conditions, but they managed to cover twelve miles, and, with the loads becoming
lighter every day, Scott hoped to march longer hours and to make the requisite progress. Steering,
however, south-west on the next morning they soon found themselves among such bad crevasses
and pressure, that they were compelled to haul out to the north, and then to the west. One
comfort was that all the time they were rising. 'It is rather trying having to march so far
to the west, but if we keep rising we must come to the end of the disturbance some time.' During
the second part of this march great changes of fortune awaited them. Narrow crevasses, that
were quite invisible, ran in all directions. All of these crevasses were covered with a thin
crust of hardened névé which had not a sign of a crack in it. One after another, and sometimes
two at a time, they all fell in; and though they were getting fairly accustomed to unexpected
falls through being unable to mark the run of [Page 366] the surface appearances of cracks,
or where such cracks were covered with soft snow, they had never expected to find a hardened
crust formed over a crack, and such a surface was as puzzling as it was dangerous and troublesome.

For about ten minutes or so, while they were near these narrow crevasses, they came on to snow
which had a hard crust and loose crystals below it, and each step was like breaking through
a glass-house. And then, quite suddenly, the hard surface gave place to regular sastrugi, and
their horizon leveled in every direction.

In the middle of the afternoon they got a fine view of the land, but more trouble was caused
by crevasses, until towards the end of their march they got free of them and on to a slight
decline down which they progressed at a swinging pace. Then they camped and prepared for their
great Christmas meal. Crevasses still appeared, and though they avoided them on this march,
they were not so lucky during the next stage to Camp 49.

In fact Wednesday, December 27, was unfortunate owing to several reasons. To begin with, Bowers
broke the only hypsometer thermometer, and so they were left with nothing to check their two
aneroids. Then during the first part of the march they got among sastrugi which jerked the
sledges about, and so tired out the second team that they had great difficulty in keeping up.
And, finally, they found more crevasses and disturbances during the afternoon. For an hour
the work was as painful as it could be, because they tumbled into the crevasses and got the
most painful jerks. That, however, did not improve matters much, for Scott soon found that
the second team had [Page 369] not the same swing as his own team, so he changed Lashly for
P.O. Evans, and then they seemed to get on better. At lunch-time they discussed the difficulties
that the second party was having, and several reasons for them were put forward. One was that
the team was stale, another that all the trouble was due to bad stepping and want of swing,
and yet another was that the first's party's sledge pulled much more easily than the second
party's.

On the chance that this last suggestion was correct, Scott and his original team took the second
party's sledge in the afternoon, and soon found that it was a terrible drag to get it along
in soft snow, whereas the second party found no difficulty in pulling the sledge that had been
given to them. The hardest work occurred on two rises, because the loose snow had been blown
over the rises and had rested on the north-facing slopes, and these heaps were responsible
for the worst of their troubles. However, there was one satisfactory result of the [Page 370]
march, for now that the second party had seen to the loading of their sledge they had ceased
to lag.

But the next stage was so exhausting that Scott's fears for the conditions of the second party
again arose. A depôt, called 'Three Degree Depôt,' consisting of a week's provision for both
units, was made at this camp, and on New Year's morning, with lighter loads, Evans' party led
the advance on foot, while Scott's team followed on ski. With a stick of chocolate to celebrate
the New Year, and with only 170 miles between them and the Pole, prospects [Page 371] seemed
to be getting brighter on New Year's night, and on the next evening at Camp 55 Scott decided
that E. R. Evans, Lashly and Crean should go back after one more march. But a blizzard held
them up for three days before they reached the head of the glacier, and by the time they reached
the foot of it E. Evans had developed symptoms of scurvy. At One Ton Camp he was unable to
stand without the support of his ski sticks, [Page 372] and although, with the help of his
companions, he struggled on for 53 more miles in four days, he could go no farther.

After four days of this pulling they reached Corner Camp, and then there was such a heavy snowfall
that the sledge could not travel. After a remarkable march of 18 hours Crean reached Hut Point,
and as soon as possible Atkinson and Demetri started off with both dog teams to relieve Evans
and Lashly. Some delay was caused by persistent bad weather, but on February 22 Evans was got
back to the Discovery hut, where he was unremittingly tended by Atkinson; and subsequently
he was sent by sledge to the Terra Nova. So ended the tale of the last supporting party, though,
as a sequel, it is good to record that in reward for their gallant conduct both Lashly and
Crean received the Albert Medal.

[Page 373] CHAPTER IX

THE SOUTH POLE

  The Silence was deep with a breath like sleep
    As our sledge runners slid on the snow,
  And the fate-full fall of our fur-clad feet
    Struck mute like a silent blow
  On a questioning 'Hush?' as the settling crust
    Shrank shivering over the floe.
  And the sledge in its track sent a whisper back
    Which was lost in a white fog-bow.

  And this was the thought that the Silence wrought,
    As it scorched and froze us through,
  For the secrets hidden are all forbidden
    Till God means man to know.
  We might be the men God meant should know
    The heart of the Barrier snow,
  In the heat of the sun, and the glow,
    And the glare from the glistening floe,
  As it scorched and froze us through and through
    With the bite of the drifting snow.

(These verses, called 'The Barrier Silence,' were written by Wilson for the South Polar Times.
Characteristically, he sent them in typewritten, lest the editor should recognize his hand
and judge them on personal rather than literary grounds. Many of their readers confess that
they felt in these lines Wilson's own premonition of the event.

[Page 374] After the departure of the last supporting party Scott was naturally anxious to
get off a good day's march, and he was not disappointed. At first the sledge on which, thanks
to P.O. Evans, everything was most neatly stowed away, went easily. But during the afternoon
they had to do some heavy pulling on a surface covered with loose sandy snow. Nevertheless
they covered some 15 miles before they camped, and so smoothly did everything seem to be going
that Scott began to wonder what was in store for them. However, they were cheered by the thought,
when they reached Camp 58 (height 10,320 feet), that they were very close to the 88th parallel,
and a little more than 120 miles from the Pole.

Another dreadful surface was their fate during the next march on Saturday, January 6. The sastrugi
increased in height as they advanced, and presently [Page 375] they found themselves in the
midst of a sea of fishhook waves, well remembered from their Northern experience. They took
off their ski and pulled on foot, but both morning and afternoon the work of getting the sledge
along was tremendous. We are south of Shackleton's last camp, so, I suppose, have made the
most southerly camp.'

During the next day, January 7, they had good cause to think that the vicissitudes of their
work were bewildering. Luckily, however, loads were to be lightened on the following day by
a weight of about 100 lbs., and there was also hope of a better surface if only the crystal
deposit would either harden up or disappear. Their food, too, was proving ample. 'What luck
to have hit on such an excellent ration. We really are an excellently found party.' Indeed,
apart from the strain of pulling, Scott's only anxiety on Sunday, January 7, was that Evans
had a nasty cut on his hand.

They woke the next morning to find their first summit blizzard; but Scott was not in the least
perturbed by this delay, because he thought that the rest would give Evans' hand a better chance
of recovery, and he also felt that a day in their comfortable bags within their double-walled
tent would do none of them any harm. But, both on account of lost time and food and the slow
accumulation of ice, he did not want more than one day's delay. It is only now I realize how
much has been due to him. I would not like to be without him either. So our five people are
perhaps as happily selected as it is possible to imagine.'

Not until after lunch on the 9th were they able to break camp, the light being extremely bad
when they marched, but the surface good. So that they might keep up the average length of their
daily marches Scott wanted to leave a depôt, but as the blizzard tended to drift up their tracks,
he was not altogether confident that to leave stores on such a great plain was a wise proceeding.
However, after a terribly hard march on the following morning, they decided to leave a depôt
at the lunch camp, and there they built a cairn and left one week's food with as many articles
of clothing as they could possibly spare.

Then they went forward with eighteen days' food on a surface that was 'beyond words,' for it
was covered with sandy snow, and, when the sun shone, even to move the sledge forward at the
slowest pace was distressingly difficult. All the time the sledge rasped and creaked, and the
work of moving it onward was agonizing. At lunch-time they had managed to cover six miles but
at fearful cost to themselves, and although when they camped for the night they were only about
74 miles from the Pole, Scott asked himself whether they could possibly keep up such a strain
for seven more days. 'It takes it out of us like anything. None of us ever had such hard work
before.... Our chance still holds good if we can put the work in, but it's a terribly trying time.'

For a few minutes during the next afternoon they experienced the almost forgotten delight of
having the sledge following easily. The experience was very short but it was also very sweet,
for Scott had begun to fear that their powers of pulling were rapidly weakening, and those
few minutes showed him that they only wanted a good surface to get on as merrily as of old.
At night they were within 63 miles of the Pole, and just longing for a better surface to help
them on their way.

But whatever the condition of the surface, Bowers continued to do his work with characteristic
[Page 380] thoroughness and imperturbability; and after this appalling march he insisted, in
spite of Scott's protest, on taking sights after they had camped--an all the more remarkable
display of energy as he, being the only one of the party who pulled on foot, had spent an even
more strenuous day than the others, who had been 'comparatively restful on ski.'

Again, on the next march, they had to pull with all their might to cover some 11 miles. Steering
was the great difficulty on this march, because a light southerly wind with very low drift
often prevented Scott from seeing anything, and Bowers, in Scott's shadow, gave directions.
By this time the feet of the whole party were beginning, mainly owing to the bad condition
of their finnesko, to suffer from the cold. So close it seems and only the weather to balk us.'

Another terrible surface awaited them on the morrow, and they were all 'pretty well done' when
[Page 381] they camped for lunch. There they decided to leave their last depôt, but although
their reduced load was now very light, Scott feared that the friction would not be greatly
reduced. A pleasant surprise, however, was in store for him, as after lunch the sledge ran
very lightly, and a capital march was made. 'It is wonderful,' he wrote on that night (January
15), 'to think that two long marches would land us at the Pole. Only 27 miles from the Pole.
We ought to do it now.'

The next morning's march took them 7-1/2 miles nearer and their noon sight showed them in Lat.
89° 42' S.; and feeling that the following day would see them at the Pole they started off
after lunch in the best of spirits. Certainly also the Norwegians found an easy way up.'

Very little sleep came to any of the party after the shock of this discovery, and when they
started at 7.30 on the next morning (January 17) head winds with a temperature of -22° added
to their depression of spirit. For some way they followed the Norwegian tracks, and in about
three miles they passed two cairns. Then, as the tracks became increasingly drifted up and
were obviously leading them too far to the west, they decided to make straight for the Pole
according to their calculations. During the march they covered about 14 miles, and at night
Scott wrote in his journal, 'The Pole. Yes, but under very different circumstances from those
expected.'

That announcement tells its own story, and it would be impertinent to guess at the feelings
of those intrepid travelers when they found themselves forestalled. Nevertheless they had achieved
the purpose they had set themselves, and the fact that they could not claim the reward of priority
makes not one jot of difference in estimating the honours that belong to them.

[Page 383] 'Well,' Scott continued, 'it is something to have got here, and the wind may be
our friend to-morrow.... Now for the run home and a desperate struggle. I wonder if we can do it.'

On the following morning after summing up all their observations, they came to the conclusion
that they were one mile beyond the Pole and three miles to the right of it, in which direction,
more or less, Bowers could see a tent or cairn.

During the afternoon of Thursday, January 18, they left the Pole 7 miles behind them, and early
in the march on the following morning picked up their outward tracks and a Norwegian cairn.

On the next day they reached their Southern [Page 386] Depôt and picked up four days' food.
With the wind behind them and with full sail they went along at a splendid rate in the afternoon,
until they were pulled up by a surface on which drifting snow was lying in heaps; and then,
with the snow clinging to the ski, pulling became terribly distressing. At night they had 6
days' food in hand and 45 miles between them and their next depôt, where they had left 7 days'
food to take them on the go miles to the Three Degree Depôt. Depôt and should get there tomorrow.
With the prospect of bad weather and scant food on the tremendous summit journey in front of
them, and with Oates and Evans suffering badly from frost-bites, Scott had to admit that the
situation was going from bad to worse. But on the next afternoon, they managed to reach the
Half Degree Depôt, and left with 9-1/2 days' provision to carry them the next 89 miles.

During Friday, January 26, they found their old tracks completely wiped out, but knowing that
there were two cairns at four-mile intervals they were not anxious until they picked up the
first far on their right, and afterwards Bowers caught a glimpse of the second which was far
on their [Page 388] left. Scott and Wilson pulling in front on ski, the others being on foot,
found it very difficult to follow the track, which constantly disappeared altogether and at
the best could only just be seen.

On the outward journey, owing to the heavy mounds, they had been compelled to take a very zigzag
course, and in consequence the difficulty of finding signs of it was greatly increased. But
by hook or crook they succeeded in sticking to the old track, and during the last part of the
march they discovered, to their joy and relief, that it was much easier to follow. Through
this march they were helped on their way by a southerly breeze, and as the air was at last
dry again their tents and equipment began to lose the icy state caused by the recent blizzards.
On the other hand, they were beginning to feel that more food, especially at lunch, was becoming
more and more necessary, and their sleeping-bags, although they managed to sleep well enough
in them, were slowly but steadily getting wetter.

On Sunday night, at R. 11, they were only 43 miles [Page 389] from their depôt with six days
food in hand, after doing a good march of 16 miles.

With the wind helping greatly and with no difficulty in finding the tracks, two splendid marches
followed; but on the Tuesday their position had its serious as well as its bright side, for
Wilson strained a tendon in his leg. During the afternoon they picked up Bowers' ski, which
he had left on December 31. 'The last thing we have to find on the summit, thank Heaven! Now
we have only to go north and so shall welcome strong winds.'

Pulling on throughout the next day they reached a lunch cairn, which had been made when they
were only a week out from the Upper Glacier Depôt. With eight days' food in hand Scott hoped
that they would easily reach it, for their increased food allowance was having a good effect
upon all of them, and Wilson's leg was better. On the other hand, Evans was still a cause for
considerable anxiety. Evans' fingers were still very bad, and there was little hope that he
would be able for some time to help properly with the work, and on the following day an accident
that entailed the most serious consequences happened.

'Just before lunch,' Scott wrote at R. 18, 'unexpectedly fell into crevasses, Evans and I together--a
second fall for Evans,[1] and I camped. Huge pressures and great street crevasses partly open
barred their way, and so they had to steer more and more to the west on a very erratic course.
Camping-time found them still in a very disturbed region, and although they were within 25
to 30 miles of their depôt there seemed to be no way through the disturbances that continued
to block their path. On turning out to continue their march they went straight for Mount Darwin,
but almost at once [Page 392] found themselves among huge open chasms. To avoid these they
turned northwards between two of them, with the result that they got into chaotic disturbance.
Consequently they were compelled to retrace their steps for a mile or so, and then striking
to the west they got among a confused sea of sastrugi, in the midst of which they camped for
lunch. A little better fortune attended them in the afternoon, and at their twentieth camp
Scott estimated that they were anything from 10 to 15 miles off the Upper Glacier Depôt. However,
they made fairly good progress during the day, and between six and seven o'clock their depôt
was sighted and soon afterwards they were camped close to it.

By lunch-time they were well down towards Mt. Buckley, and decided to steer for the moraine
under the mountain. The time spent in collecting these geological specimens from the Beardmore
Glacier, and the labour endured in dragging the additional 35 lbs. to their last camp, were
doubtless a heavy price to pay; but great as the cost was they were more than willing to pay
it. The fossils contained in these specimens, often so inconspicuous that it is a wonder they
were discovered by the collectors, proved to be the most valuable obtained by the expedition,
and promise to solve completely the questions of the age and past history of this portion of
the Antarctic continent. At night, after a difficult day among bad ice pressures, Scott almost
apologizes for [Page 395] being too tired to write any geological notes, and as the sledgemeter
had been unshipped he could not tell the distance they had traversed. Their progress, however,
was delayed during the next afternoon by driving snow, which made steering impossible and compelled
them to camp. 'We have two full days' food left,' Scott wrote on the same evening, 'and though
our position is uncertain, we are certainly within two outward marches from the middle glacier
depôt. Then, unfortunately, they decided to steer east, and after struggling on for several
hours found themselves in a regular trap. Having for a short time in the earlier part of the
day got on to a good surface, they thought that all was going well and did not reduce their
lunch rations. But half an hour after lunch they suddenly got into a terrible ice mess. We
have come through well.'

On leaving R. 25, early on Monday morning, everything went well in the forenoon and a good
march was made over a fair surface. We must get there to-morrow. Meanwhile we are cheerful
with an effort.'

On that night, at Camp R. 26, Scott says that they all slept well in spite of grave anxieties,
his own being increased by his visits outside the tent, when he saw the sky closing over and
snow beginning to fall. At their ordinary hour for getting up the weather was so thick that
they had to remain in their sleeping-bags; but presently the weather cleared enough for Scott
dimly to see the land of the Cloudmaker. On the other hand, Scott was becoming most gravely
concerned about the condition of the party, and especially about Evans, who seemed to be going
from bad to worse. [Page 399] And on the next evening, after a heavy march he wrote, 'We don't
know our distance from the depôt, but imagine about 20 miles. Perhaps all will be well if we
can get to our depôt to-morrow fairly early, but it is anxious work with the sick man.'

On the following morning (Saturday, February 17) Evans looked a little better after a good
sleep, and declared, as he always did, that he was quite well; but half an hour after he had
started in his place on the traces, he worked his ski shoes adrift and had to leave the sledge.
Scott cautioned him to come on as quickly as he could, and he gave what seemed to be a cheerful
answer. Then the others were compelled to push on, until abreast the Monument Rock they halted
and, seeing Evans a long way behind, decided to camp for lunch.

At first there was no alarm, but when they looked out after lunch and saw him still afar off
they were thoroughly frightened, and all four of them started back on ski. Scott was the first
to meet the poor man, who was on his knees with hands uncovered and frost-bitten and a wild
look in his eyes. When asked what was the matter, he replied slowly that he didn't know, but
thought that he must have fainted.

They managed to get him on his feet, but after two or three steps
he sank down again and showed every sign of complete collapse. They worship the man who,
  over thousands of miles, for hundreds of days, through renewed
  difficulties and efforts, has brought them without friction,
  arrogance or dishonour to the victory proposed, or to the higher
  glory of unshaken defeat.--R. KIPLING.

After this terrible experience the rest of the party marched on later in the night, and arrived
at their depôt; there they allowed themselves five hours' sleep and then marched to Shambles
Camp, which they reached at 3 P.M. on Sunday, February 18. Soon after noon, however, they got
away, and found the surface every bit as bad as they expected. Moreover Scott's fears that
there would not be much change during the next few days were most thoroughly justified. On
the Monday afternoon they had to pullover a really terrible surface that resembled desert sand.
And the same conditions awaited them on the following day, when, after four hours' plodding
in the morning, they reached Desolation Camp. At this camp they had hoped to find more pony
meat, but disappointment awaited them. Later in the day Bowers, feeling sure that they were
too far to the west, steered out, with the result that another pony camp was passed by unseen.
Difficulties as to their course remained, but luckily Bowers took a round of angles, and with
the help of the chart they came to the conclusion that they must be inside rather than outside
the tracks. The data, however, were so meager that none of them were happy about taking the
great responsibility of marching out. Camp R. 37 found them within 2-1/2 miles of their depôt.
'We cannot see it, but, given fine weather, we cannot miss it. We are, therefore, extraordinarily
relieved.... Things are again looking up, as we are on the regular line of cairns, with no
gaps right home, I hope.' In the forenoon of Saturday, February 24, the depôt was reached,
and there they found the store in order except for a shortage of oil. 'Shall have to be very
saving with fuel.'

[Indeed from this time onward the party were increasingly in want of more oil than they found
at the depôts. Owing partly to the severe conditions, but still more to the delays caused by
their sick comrades, they reached the full limit of time allowed for between the depôts. The
cold was unexpected, and at the same time the actual amount of oil found at the depôts was
less than Scott anticipated.

The return journey on the summit was made at good speed, for the party accomplished in 21 days
what had taken them 27 days on the outward journey. And from that time onward the marches [Page
405] of the weary but heroic travelers became shorter and shorter.

As regards the cause of the shortage of oil, the tins at the depôts had been exposed to extreme
conditions of heat and cold.

The tins awaiting the Southern party at the depôts had, of course, been opened, so that the
supporting parties on their way back could take their due amount. But however carefully the
tins were re-stoppered, they were still liable to the unexpected evaporation and leakage, and
hence, without the smallest doubt, arose the shortage which was such a desperate blow to Scott
and his party.]

Apart from the storage of fuel everything was found in order at the depôt, and with ten full
days' provisions from the night of the 24th they had less than 70 miles between them and the
Mid-Barrier depôt. At lunch-time Scott wrote in a more hopeful tone, 'It is an immense relief
to have picked up this depôt, and, for the time, anxieties are thrust aside,' but at night,
after pulling on a dreadful surface and only gaining four miles, he added, 'It really will
be a bad business if we are to have this plodding all through. I don't know what to think,
but the rapid closing [Page 406] of the season is ominous.... It is a race between the season
and hard conditions and our fitness and good food.'

Their prospects, however, became a little brighter during the following day, when the whole
march yielded 11.4 miles, 'The first double figures of steady dragging for a long time.' But
what they wanted and what would not come was a wind to help them on their way. Nevertheless,
although the assistance they so sorely needed was still lacking, they gained another 11-1/2
miles on their next march, and were within 43 miles of their next depôt. Writing from 'R. 40.
First they found such a shortage of oil that with the most rigid economy it could scarcely
carry them on to their next depôt, 71 miles away. Then Oates disclosed the fact that his feet,
evidently frost-bitten by the recent low temperatures, were very bad indeed. And lastly the
wind, which at first they had greeted with some joy, brought dark overcast weather. During
the Friday night the temperature fell to below -40°, and on the next morning an hour and a
half was spent before they could get on their foot-gear. 'God help us,' Scott wrote at mid-day,
'we can't keep up this pulling, that is certain. Amongst ourselves we are unendingly cheerful,
but what each man feels in his heart I can only guess. Putting on foot-gear in the morning
is getting slower and slower, therefore every day more dangerous.'

No relief whatever to the critical situation came on Monday, March 4, and there was in fact
little left to hope for except a strong drying wind, which at that time of the year was not
likely to come. At mid-day they were about 42 miles from the next depôt and had a week's food;
but in spite of the utmost economy their oil could only last three or four days, and to pull
as they were doing and be short of food at the same time was an absolute impossibility. For
the time being the temperature had risen to -20°, but Scott was sure that this small improvement
was only temporary and feared that Oates, at any rate, was in no state to weather more severe
cold than they were enduring. And hanging over all the other misfortunes was the constant fear
that if they did get to the next depôt they might find the same shortage of oil. 'I don't know
what I should do if Wilson and Bowers weren't so determinedly cheerful over things.'

[Page 409] And it must in all truth have been as difficult as it was heroic to be cheerful,
for weary and worn as they were their food needed such careful husbanding, that their supper
on this night (March 4) consisted of nothing but a cup of cocoa and pemmican solid with the
chill off. 'We pretend to prefer the pemmican this way,' Scott says, and if any proof was needed
of their indomitable resolution it is contained in that short sentence. The result, however,
was telling rapidly upon all of them, and more especially upon Oates, whose feet were in a
terrible condition when they started to march on the morning of the 5th. Lunch-time saw them
within 27 miles of their next supply of food and fuel, but by this time poor Oates was almost
done. For Oates, indeed, the crisis was near at hand. Wisely he took the latter course and
stayed at One Ton Camp until the utmost limit of time.]

With the depôt reached and no relief to the situation gained, Scott was forced to admit that
things were going 'steadily downhill,' but for the time being Oates' condition was by far the
most absorbing trouble. 'Oates' foot worse,' he wrote on the 10th. Then they struggled on again
with the sky so overcast that they could see nothing and consequently lost the tracks. 'What
we or he will do, God only knows. A strong northerly wind stopped them altogether on the 13th,
and although on the following morning they started with a favorable breeze, it soon shifted
and blew through their wind-clothes and their mitts.

Then came the closing stages of this glorious struggle against persistent misfortune.

'March 19.--Lunch.

[Page 417] During the afternoon they drew 4-1/2 miles nearer to the One Ton Depôt, and there
they made their last camp. Throughout Tuesday a severe blizzard held them prisoners, and on
the 21st Scott wrote: 'To-day forlorn hope, Wilson and Bowers going to depôt for fuel.'

But the blizzard continued without intermission.

'Last entry For God's sake look after our people.'

[Page 418] After Cherry-Garrard and Demetri had returned to Hut Point on March 16 without having
seen any signs of the Polar party, Atkinson and Keohane made one more desperate effort to find
them. When, however, this had been unsuccessful there was nothing more to be done until the
winter was over.

During this long and anxious time the leadership of the party devolved upon Atkinson, who under
the most trying circumstances showed qualities that are beyond all praise. At the earliest
possible moment (October 30) a large party started south. 'On the night of the 11th and morning
of the 12th,' Atkinson says, 'after we had marched 11 miles due south of One Ton, we found
the tent. It was an object partially snowed up and looking like a cairn. Before it were the
ski sticks and in front of them a bamboo which probably was the mast of the sledge...

'Inside the tent were the bodies of Captain Scott, Doctor Wilson, and Lieutenant Bowers.

Among their belongings were the 35 lbs. of most important geological specimens which had been
collected on the moraines of the Beardmore Glacier. At Wilson's request they had clung on to
these to the very end, though disaster stared them in the face.

'When everything had been gathered up, we covered them with the outer tent and read the Burial
Service. From this time until well into the next day we started to build a mighty cairn above
them.'

Upon the cairn a rough cross, made from two skis, was placed, and on either side were up-ended
two sledges, fixed firmly in the snow. Between the eastern sledge and the cairn a bamboo was
placed, containing a metal cylinder, and in this the following record was left:

'November 12, 1912, Lat. 79 degrees, 50 mins. South. This cross and cairn are erected over
the bodies of Captain Scott, C.V.O., R.N., Doctor E. A. Wilson, M.B. B.C., Cantab., and Lieutenant
H. R. Bowers, Royal Indian Marine--a slight token to perpetuate their successful and gallant
attempt to reach the Pole. This they did on January 17, 1912, after the Norwegian Expedition
had already done so. Inclement weather with lack of fuel was the cause of their death. Also
to commemorate their two gallant comrades, Captain L. E. G. Oates of the Inniskilling Dragoons,
who walked to his death [Page 420] in a blizzard to save his comrades about eighteen miles
south of this position; also of Seaman Edgar Evans, who died at the foot of the Beardmore Glacier.

Goodbye to you and your dear kind wife.

  Yours ever sincerely,
    R. SCOTT. This is decided
already--when provisions come to an end we simply stop unless we
are within easy distance of another depôt. Therefore you must not
imagine a great tragedy. We are very anxious of course, and have
been for weeks, but our splendid physical condition and our appetites
compensate for all discomfort. So don't worry. The inevitable must be faced.
You urged me to be leader of this party, and I know you felt it
would be dangerous.

INDEX

Abbott, George P., P.O. 209, 242, 260
Adélie Land 35
Admiralty, the, 8, 18, 182-3, 200, 206
Alaska 11
Albemarle, H.M.S., 206
Albert Medal, the, 372
Alexandra, Queen, 31, 429
Alpine Rope, 256-7, 266, 274, 367
Amphion, H.M.S., 11
Amundsen, Roald, 259-60, 301, 324, 346, 383, 428
Anton, Groom, 209, 276, 278, 280, 285, 289, 299
Archer, W. W., chief steward, 209
Armitage, Lieut. A. B., 25, 32, 43, 57, 63, 89, 97, 103, 105, 138,
  153-4, 176, 178
Arnold, M., quoted, 151, 178
Arrival Bay, 60
  Heights, 60, 234
Athletic sports, 137-8
Atkinson, Edward L., surgeon, R.N., parasitologist, 208, 213, 224,
  236, 243, 259, 261, 267, 270, 273, 279-80, 284, 285-6, 295
  seq., 308, 319, 320-1, 327, 329, 330, 336, 340, 344, 354-5,
  362-3, 372, 411, 418-19
Auckland Islands, 195
Australia, Government of, 207

Balaclave helmets, 251
Balfour, Rt. Ron. A. J., 16
Balleny, Capt. John, 197
  Islands, 196-7
Balloons, ascents of, 57, 281
Barne, Lieut. Michael, 26, 32, 43, 53, 61, seq., 80, 87,
  98-9, 100, 104, 106, 108, 131-2, 147, 149, 152, 155, 176
  Glacier, 275
Barrie, Sir J. M., letter to, 422-4
Barrier, Great Ice, 53, seq., 90, 176, 203, 222, 224-5, 241,
  243, 246, 260 seq., 294, 304, 305, 321, 377
Bay of Whales, 259-60
Beaumont, Admiral Sir Lewis, 427
Beppo, pony, 7
Berlin, 17, 20
Bernacchi, Louis C., physicist, 27, 43, 53, 75, 85-6, 135, 147, 152, 176
Birdie, dog, 108-9, 126
Birthday, celebrations of, 286-7
Biscay, Bay of, 32
Bismarck, dog, 108
Bjaaland, Olav Olavson, 383
Blanco, dog, 108
Blissett, A. H., 132
Blizzard, The, 80
Blossom, pony, 250
Blucher, pony, 248, 250, 258
Bluff, The, 130
  Camp, 250, 336
Boats, mishap to, 84, 85, 139, 140
Bones, pony, 299, 308
Bonner, Charles, 38-9
Borchgrevink, 43
Boss, dog, 108
Bowers, Lieut. H. R., 28, 208, 216, 224, 230-1, 234-236, 243, 247,
  249, 250-4, 261-7, 270, 273, 275, 278-81, 283-4, 286, 289, 293-5,
  299, 300-8, 311-14, 317, 319, 320, 322, 324-5, 334, 343-5, 352,
  354, 357-8, 359, 364, 368, 371, 373 seq.
Bowers, Mrs., letter to, 421-2
Bridgeman, Admiral, Sir F. C., letter to, 425
Britannia, The, 6
British Museum, the, 19
Brownie, dog, 100, 108-9
Browning, E. B., quoted, 328
Browning, Frank V., P.O., 209, 242
Bruce, Canon Lloyd, 207
Bruce, Kathleen, 207
Bruce, Lieut. Wilfred M., 209, 224
Buckingham Palace Road, 15
Bulwark, H.M.S., 206
Burlington House, 19
Butter Point, 157, 260, 314

Campbell, Lieut. Victor L. A., 208, 216, 224, 226, 229, 232, 233,
  238, 240-1, 242, 259-60, 292, 315
Cape Adare, 42, 43, 45, 141
  Armitage, 59, 225, 259, 263
  Bernacchi, 315
  Bird, 225
  Crozier, 52, 61, 64, 69, 70, 105, 137, 141-2, 155-6, 176, 222-3, 281
  Crozier Party, 294, 300-7, 317
  Evans, 225, 234-5, 239, 246, 260, 268, 271-3, 280, 300, 316-17, 321,
    328, 365
  Jones, 48
  Mackay, 301
  North, 146, 189, 196, 198, 260
  of Good Hope, 32-3
  Royds, 180, 185, 286
  Sibbald, 49
  Wadworth, 47
  Washington, 49, 52
Cardiff, 207, 211
Castle Rock, 60, 62, 64, 65, 262, 273
Cheetham, Alfred B., boatswain, 209
Cherry-Garrard, Apsley, assistant zoologist, 224, 236, 243, 251-2,
  254-6, 257-8, 261-6, 270-1, 273, 279-81, 284, 288, 294, 300-7, 308,
  318, 323, 329, 334, 340, 342, 344, 347, 352, 354, 362, 364, 411-12,
  418
Chinaman, pony, 308, 318, 329-30, 332-3, 336, 338-9, 340-41
Christiania, 89
Christopher, pony, 308-9, 318-19, 320, 329, 333, 336, 342
Clarke, Charles, ship's cook, 179
Clissold, Thomas, cook, 209, 276, 278, 280, 286, 289, 296, 319, 329
Coal, 46, 189, 194, 216, 218-19, 220
Colbeck, Captain William, 141-2, 143, 147, 182-3, 185, 194, 198
Coleridge, quoted, 211
Colville, Rear-Admiral, 206
Commonwealth Range, 357
Cook, Capt. James, 31
Corner Camp, 247, 261, 263, 270, 312, 314, 317, 372
Coulman Islands, 46, 47, 141
Crater Heights, 60, 234
  Hill, 60, 69, 88
Crean, Thomas, P.O., 209, 237, 243, 259, 261, 262-5, 270, 273,
  278-80, 285, 296, 299, 308, 318, 321, 323, 344, 354, 364, 370-2
Cross, Jacob, P.O., 48, 103, 155-6
'Cruise of the Beagle,' 162
Cuts, pony, 262, 264

Dailey, F. E., carpenter, 59, 153, 157
Darwin, Charles, 162
Day, Bernard C., motor engineer, 208, 227, 236, 276-7, 279, 290-1,
  299, 318, 321, 323, 329, 330-1, 339, 340
Debenham, Frank, geologist, 208, 236, 242, 270, 273, 281-2, 283,
  296, 325-6, 327
Dellbridge, James H., 2nd engineer, 138
  Islets, 178
Demetri, dog driver, 209, 276, 278-9, 289, 311, 329, 333, 354,
  356, 372, 411, 418
Dennistoun, James R., 209
Depôt Nunatak, 171
Desolation Camp, Discovery Expedition, 163, 172
  Last Expedition, 402
Dickason, Harry, A.B., 209, 242
Discovery, the fifth, 21
Dog food, 109
Dogs, 59, 71-2, 95-7, 107 seq., 212-13, 218, 226, 228, 239,
  241, 243 seq., 270, 278, 285-6, 311, 329, 333 seq.,
  411
Douglas, Sir Archibald, 18
Drake, Francis R. H., assistant paymaster, 209, 224
Dundee, 19, 20, 23
  Shipbuilding Company, 17

East India Docks, 20
Edward VII, King, 31
Egerton, Admiral Sir George, K.C.B., 15, 81, 206, 425-6 (letter to)
Enderby Quadrant, 29
Entertainments, 85, 86, 87
Erebus Tongue, 315
Esquimault. B.C., 11
Esquimaux, 301, 307
Evans, Lieut. E. R. G. R., 208, 215, 223-5, 232, 236, 242-3, 250,
  258, 262, 311, 314, 317, 330-1, 337-40, 344, 354-5, 357-9, 361,
  363, 364, 368, 370-2
Evans, P.O., 63, 65, 67-8, 97, 105, 153, 157, 164, 165 seq.,
  178-9, 209, 237, 242, 270, 273, 280, 285-6, 296, 308, 311-12,
  317, 323-4, 326-7, 329, 337, 344, 352, 354-5, 364, 369

Falkland Islands, 199
Feather, Thomas A., boatswain, 100-1, 157, 161, 162, 164-5
Fefer, 229
Ferrar, Hartley T., 27, 48, 67, 97, 103, 138, 157, 159, 163, 176
  Glacier, 152-3, 154, 158-9, 314
Finance Committee, 17-18
Fire, alarm of, 32
Fisher, Admiral Sir John, 10
Fitzclarence, dog, 108
Football, 286, 325
Forde, Robert, P.O., 209, 243, 248, 250, 258, 261, 270, 273, 279,
  312, 314, 317, 326-7
Fram, the, 20, 21
Franklin Island, 141
Franz-Josef Land, 25

Gap, the, 60, 234
Gateway, the, 352
Geological specimens, 393-4, 398, 419
Gerof, Demetri. See Demetri
Glacier, the Beardmore, 312, 338-9, 341, 345, 346, 349, 352, 354
  seq., 392, 394, 419-20
Glacier Depôt, 349, 352
  Tongue, 225, 237, 239-41, 260, 274, 315-16, 324, 344
Gran Tryggve, ski expert, 208, 218, 236, 243, 251, 254, 261-2,
  263, 265, 267, 273, 295-6, 312, 314, 317, 327
Granite Harbor, 50, 51
Grannie, dog, 108
Gus, dog, 108, 125

Haakon, King, 383
Hackenschmidt, pony, 276
Half-Degree Depôt, 387
Hamilton, B. T., 229
Hampton Court Palace, 207
Handsley. Jesse, A.B., 153, 157, 164-5, 175, 178-9
Hanson, 43
Hanssen, Hilmer, 383
Hare, 63, 65, 68-9
Hassel, Sverre H., 383
Heald, William L., A.B., 62, 103, 176, 210
Henley, W. E., quoted, 385
'Hints to Travelers', 159-60
Hobart Town, 182
Hockey, 149
Hodgson, Thomas V., 25, 27, 147, 149, 154
Hooper, F. J., steward, 209, 276, 279, 280, 289, 339-40
Hoskins, Sir Anthony, 18
Hut, the Discovery, 59, 85-86, 87, 233, 239, 269 seq., 372
  at Cape Evans, 227, 231, 234 seq., 275 seq.
  Point, 60, 88, 186, 190-1, 233, 240, 242-3, 258, 260-3, 265, 267,
    271, 279, 285, 311, 318, 324, 327-9, 372, 411, 418
Hutton Rocks, 273
Huxley, quoted, 311

Icebergs, 44 Inaccessible Island, 297, 316

Jackson-Harmsworth Expedition, 25 Jehu, pony, 308, 318, 328-9, 330, 332-6, 338-9, 340 Jim,
dog, 108-9, 125-6, 129 Joe, dog, 108

Kennar, Thomas, P.O., 157, 159
Keohane, Patrick, P.O., 209, 243, 250, 258, 261, 273, 279, 296, 308,
  320, 327, 329, 340, 344, 348, 354, 357, 362, 418
Kid, dog, 108-9, 125
King Edward's Island, 56, 203, 233, 242
Kinsey, J. J., letter to, 426-7
Kipling, Rudyard, quoted, 401
Koettlitz, Reginald, surgeon and botanist, 25, 27, 61, seq.,
  78, 97, 138, 175

Lantaret, 229
Lashly, William, leading stoker, 97, 105, 153, 157, 162, 164, 165
  seq., 178, 179, 209, 214, 276, 278-9, 299, 323, 331, 340,
  344, 354-5, 364, 366-7, 369, 371-2
Lectures, 282, 287, 290, 307-8
Levick, G. Murray, surgeon, R.N., 208, 242
Lewis, dog, 108-9, 126
Lillehammer, 229
Lillie, Denis G., biologist, 209, 240
London Docks, 31, 141
Lower Glacier Depôt, 356, 398, 404
Lyttelton, 37-8, 211-12
  Heads, 37, 199

Macartney, Sir William Ellison, 427
Mackay, Captain Harry, 182, 190
Macquarie Island, 36, 37, 185
Magnetic huts, 75
  Observatory, 23
Magnetism, 75
Majestic, H.M.S., 15, 18, 26, 27
Markham, Sir Clements, 15, 16, 29, 30, 141, 203 seq. (preface),
  429
Markham, Lady, 20
McMurdo Sound, 51, 58, 138, 142, 194, 230, 237, 260
Meares, Cecil H., in charge of dogs, 208, 218, 226, 232-4, 236,
  239, 240, 242-4, 246-8, 251-2, 254-8, 261, 263, 265, 267, 273,
  279, 285, 299, 311-12, 318-19, 327, 329, 333, 337, 354, 356
Merchant Shipping Act, 28
Meridians, 217
Message to the public, 430-2
Meteorological observations, 74, 75, 83, 84
  screens, 71, 74
Michael, pony, 308, 347
Middle Barrier Depôt, 340, 405, 407
Midwinter celebrations, 290-3
Milton, quoted, 254
Monument Rock, 400
Morning, the, 43, 53, 135, 141-6, 181 seq., 194, 198
Motor sledges, 212, 226-30, 290, 312-13, 318, 321, 326-7, 329-30, 332
Mount Buckley, 393-4
  Cloudmaker, 357-98
  Darwin, 364, 390, 391, 393
  Discovery, 225
  Erebus, 131, 235, 274, 316
  Hooper Depôt, 410, 411
  Hope, 346
  Longstaff, 122
  Markham, 124
  Melbourne, 49
  Monteagle, 49
  Murchison, 49
  Sabine, 222
  Terror, 302
  Whewell, 222
Mulock, Lieut. George F. A., 27, 145, 149, 152, 176, 193, 195, 197

Nansen, Dr., 17, 19, 20, 89
Naval Discipline Act, 28
Nell, dog, 101, 108-9, 125-6, 129
Nelson, Edward W., biologist, 208, 224, 227, 236, 276-7, 279, 287,
  319-20
Newbolt, Henry, quoted, 31
New Harbor, 153, 157, 315
Newnes, Sir George, 43
New Zealand, 23, 37, 38, 199, 211
New Zealand, Government of, 207
Nigger, dog, 101, 108-9, 125-6, 129
Nobby, pony, 262, 268, 308, 325, 342-3, 351, 353
Northern Party, 233, 242-3
Norway, 17, 89
Norwegians, the, 384-5

Oates, Capt. Lawrence, E.G., 208, 213, 220, 226, 236, 239-40, 241,
  243, 248-9, 252, 254, 261-2, 263, 265, 267, 270, 273, 279-80,
  284-5, 299, 308, 318-20, 321, 333, 336-7, 343-4, 351, 354-5, 364,
  373 seq.
Outlands, 2, 5
Observatory Hill, 60, 134, 234
Oil, shortage of, 404-5, 408, 411, 416
'Old Mooney,' 6, 8, 9
Omelchenko, Anton. See Anton
One Ton Camp, 253, 317, 326-7, 371, 410-11, 412, 415, 417
Osman, dog, 255-6

P. and O. Company, 25
Pack-ice, 35 seq., 44, 49, 51, 196, 216-17, 218
Parry Mountains, 54
Peary, Lieutenant, 28
Penguins, 36, 40, 148, 180, 226
  Emperor, 106, 137, 153, 155, 223, 294, 302, 305
  King, 36
Pennell, Lieut. H. L. L., 209, 224, 230, 238
Petrels, 35
  Antarctic, 40
  Giant, 40
  Southern Fulmar, 40
  White Snow, 40
  Wilson stormy, 35
Pigg, James, pony, 250, 258, 261, 263, 268, 308, 318, 329, 340, 342
Plumley, Frank, stoker, 62, 157
Pole, the South, 382 seq.
  Camp, 384
Ponies, the, 212-15, 220, 226, 239, 241, 243 seq., 263-7,
  285-6, 312, 318, 332 seq.
Ponting, Herbert G., camera artist, 208, 219, 227-8, 236, 276-7,
  282, 284, 292, 314, 319, 327, 329
Port Chalmers, 38, 39, 76, 212
  Ross, 195
  Stanley, 199
Possession Islands, 141
Pram Point, 263, 269
  Bay, 269
  Ridges, 267
President, H.M.S., 206
Pressure Ridges, 319
Priestley, Raymond E., geologist, 208, 223, 242, 260
Proverbs, quoted, 137
Punch, pony, 262, 266

Quartley, Arthur L., leading stoker, 63, 65, 67-8, 105, 175

Razor Back Islands, 240, 274
Rennick, Lieut. Henry E. de P., 209, 224
Roberston Bay, 42, 195
Rodd, Sir Rennell, quoted, 231
Ross, Sir James, 31, 40, 46, 54-5, 196-7
Ross Harbor, 198
  Island, 176, 203, 239
  Quadrant, 29
  Sea, 216
Rover, H.M.S., 10
Royal Geographical Society, 17
Royal Society, 17
Royds, Lieut. Charles W. R., 18, 26, 53, 61 seq., 74-5, 78,
  85-7, 97, 105, 132, 137, 139, 147, 149, 155, 176
Russell Islands, 197

Safety Camp, 243-4, 245-6, 254, 258-9, 261-2, 263, 265, 329-30
San Francisco, 11
Sawing-camp, 175, 178-9
Saxon, S.S., 207
Scamp, dog, 37
Scott, John Edward, 1
Scott, Lady, extracts from letters to, 427, 428, 429, et passim
Scott, Mrs., extract from letter to, 427
Scott of Brownhead, 1
Scott, Peter Markham, 207
Scurvy, 103-4, 117, 129, 134, 144, 148, 371
Sea leopard, 41
  elephant, 185
Seals, 41, 48, 269, 279
  crab-eater, 41
  Ross, 41
Shackleton, Sir Ernest H., 27, 79, 98, 107 seq., 143, 145,
  233, 344, 352, 357, 370, 372, 375
Shackleton's hut, 286
Shakespeare, quoted, 95, 120, 294, 354
Shambles Camp, 353, 401
Shelley, quoted, 74, 167
Ship Committee, 17, 20, 23
Simon's Bay, 32, 33
Simpson. George C., Meteorologist, 208, 231, 236, 277, 281-2, 283,
  312, 316
Skelton, Lieut. Reginald W., 18, 27, 60 seq., 85-6, 105,
  135, 138, 147-8, 153, 162, 164-5, 176, 191-3, 229
Ski, 19, 60, 61, 130, 173, 246, 340, 354-5, 358, 360, 370, 375,
  386, 388, 390
Ski-shoes, 361
Skua gulls, 40, 148, 180
Skuary, the, 225
Sledge equipment, 89, 151, 312
Sledges, 91, 92, 279, 280, 370
Sleeping-bags, 304, 306, 307, 388
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Reginald, 427
Smith's Inlet, 260
Snatcher, dog, 108, 115
  pony, 308, 325, 329, 352
Snippets, pony, 308-9, 328, 332, 341, 343
Snow-shoes, for ponies, 245, 247, 308, 352
South Africa, Government of, 207
Southern Barrier Depôt, 342
  Road, the, 239-40
South Polar Times, Discovery Expedition, 79-80
  Last Expedition, 281, 290-1, 373
Spenser, quoted, 52
Speyer, Sir Edgar, letter to, 424
Spud, dog, 108-9, 115
Stareek, dog, 244-5
Stoke Damerel, 5
Stripes, dog, 108
Stubbington House, Fareham, 5
Sturge Island, 197
Sun, eclipse of, 156
Sverdrup's 'New Land', 295

Taylor, T. Griffith, geologist, 208, 223, 236, 242, 270, 273-4,
  281-2, 283, 287, 291, 327
Telephone, the, 318-19
Tent, double, 295
Tent, Island, 297, 325
  Islet, 184
Terra Nova, Discovery Expedition, 182-3, 187 seq., 194, 198
  Last Expedition, 207, 211, 220, 237, 292, 324, 372
Thermometer, minimum, 253, 337
Thomson, Sir Courtauld, 11
Three Degree Depôt, 370, 385-6, 387, 389, 404
Transport, 312, 345
Turtle Back Island, 271

Uncle Bill, pony, 262-3 Uniform overcoat, 309 Union Jack, the, 235, 291, 384, 428-9 Upper Glacier
Depôt, 390, 392, 404

Vic, dog, 108
Victor, pony, 308-9, 325, 334, 343
Victoria, B.C., 11
  Land, 42, 76, 138, 167, 176, 196, 203, 233, 260
  Quadrant, 29
Victorious, H.M.S., 206
Vince, A. B., 63, 66-9, 190, 234

Weary Willy, pony, 245, 251, 261-3
Weddell Quadrant, 29
Weller, William J., A.B., 48, 62, 157
Western Geological Party (1), 242, 260, 270
  (2) 317, 325, 327
Western Mountains, 312, 325
Whales, killer, 227-8
White Island, 134, 261, 264
Wild, Frank, 62-3, 66, 67, 97, 105, 344
Wilkes, Commodore, 197
Wilkes Land, 198
Williams, William, engineer, 209, 214
Williamson, Thomas S., P.O., 157, 209, 229
Wilson, Dr.  E.  A., chief, the scientific staff (Last Expedition),
  zoologist, 5, 26-8, 35-6, 48-9, 53, 75-6, 80, 103, 107
  seq., 143-4, 147, 153, 155-6, 176, 180-1, 185, 195, 208, 219-20,
  223, 225, 231, 236, 240, 242-4, 246-8, 254-6, 258, 261, 263, 265,
  267, 269-70, 272-3, 279-80, 286, 289, 294, 300-7, 308, 318-19,
  320-2, 324-5, 329, 335, 344, 351, 353-5, 361, 364, 372 seq.
Wilson, Mrs., letter to, 421
Winter Quarter Bay, 60
Wisting, Oscar, 383
Wolf, dog, 108-9
Wolseley Motor Company, 229
Wood Bay, 49, 50, 141
Wright, Charles S., physicist, 208, 224, 231, 236, 242, 270, 280,
  283, 308, 314, 321, 329, 335, 340, 344, 354-5, 362