PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOLUME 99.

NOVEMBER 15, 1890.

(By J. MUIR KIRRIE, Author of "A Door on Thumbs," "Eight Bald Fiddlers" "When a Man Sees Double,"
"My Gentleman Meerschaum," &c.

    [With this story came a glossary of Scotch expressions. We
    have referred to it as we went along, and found everything
    quite intelligible. As, however, we have no room to publish
    the glossary, we can only appeal to the indulgence of our
    readers. The story itself was written in a very clear,
    legible hand, and was enclosed in a wrapper labelled, "Arcadia
    Mixture. Strength and Aroma combined. Sold in Six-shilling
    cases. Special terms for Southrons. Liberal allowance for
    returned empties."]

CHAPTER I.

We were all sitting on the pig-sty at T'NOWHEAD'S Farm. A pig-sty is not, perhaps, a strictly
eligible seat, but there were special reasons, of which you shall hear something later, for
sitting on this particular pig-sty.

The old sow was within, extended at full length. Occasionally she grunted approval of what
was said, but, beyond that, she seemed to show but a faint interest in the proceedings. She
had been a witness of similar gatherings for some years, and, to tell the truth, they had begun
to bore her, but, on the whole, I am not prepared to deny that her appreciation was an intelligent
one. Behind us was the brae. Ah, that brae! Do you remember how the child you once were sat
in the brae, spinning the peerie, and hunkering at I-dree I-dree I droppit-it? Do you remember
that? Do you even know what I mean? Life is like that. When we are children the bread is thick,
and the butter is thin; as we grow to be lads and lassies, the bread dwindles, and the butter
increases; but the old men and women who totter about the commonty, how shall they munch when
their teeth are gone? That's the question. I'm a Dominie. What!--no answer? Go to the bottom
of the class, all of you.

CHAPTER II.

As I said, we were all on the pig-sty. Of the habitués I scarcely need to speak to you, since
you must know their names, even if you fail to pronounce them. But there was a stranger amongst
us, a stranger who, it was said, had come from London. Yesterday when I went ben the house
I found him sitting with JESS; to-day, he too, was sitting with us on the pig-sty. There were
tales told about him, that he wrote for papers in London, and stuffed his vases and his pillows
with money, but TAMMAS HAGGART only shook his head at what he called "such auld fowks' yeppins,"
and evidently didn't believe a single word. Now TAMMAS, you must know, was our humorist. It
was not without difficulty that TAMMAS had attained to this position, and he was resolved to
keep it. Possibly he scented in the stranger a rival humorist whom he would have to crush.
At any rate, his greeting was not marked with the usual genial cordiality characteristic of
Scotch weavers, and many were the anxious looks exchanged amongst us, as we watched the preparations
for the impending conflict.

CHAPTER III.

After TAMMAS had finished boring half-a-dozen holes in the old sow with his sarcastic eye,
he looked up, and addressed HENDRY MCQUMPHA.

"HENDRY," he said, "ye ken I'm a humorist, div ye no?"

HENDRY scratched the old sow meditatively, before he answered.

"Ou ay," he said, at length. "I'm no saying 'at ye're no a humorist. I ken fine ye're a sarcesticist,
but there's other humorists in the world, am thinkin."

This was scarcely what TAMMAS had expected. HENDRY was usually one of his most devoted admirers.
There was an awkward silence which made me feel uncomfortable. I am only a poor Dominie, but
some of my happiest hours had been passed on the pig-sty. Were these merry meetings to come
to an end? PETE took up the talking.

"HENDRY, my man," he observed, as he helped himself out of TAMMAS'S snuff-mull, "ye're ower
kyow-owy. Ye ken humour's a thing 'at spouts out o' its ain accord, an' there's no nae spouter
in Thrums 'at can match wi' TAMMAS."

He looked defiantly at HENDRY, who was engaged in searching for coppers in his north-east-by-east-trouser
pocket. T'NOWHEAD said nothing, and HOOKEY was similarly occupied. At last, the stranger spoke.

"Gentlemen," he began, "may I say a word? I may lay claim to some experience in the matter.
I travel in humour, and generally manage to do a large business."

He looked round interrogatively. TAMMAS eyed him with one of his keen glances. Then he worked
his mouth round and round to clear the course for a sarcasm.

"So you're the puir crittur," said the stone-breaker, "'at's meanin' to be a humorist."

This was the challenge. We all knew what it meant, and fixed our eyes on the stranger.

"Certainly," was his answer; "that is exactly my meaning. I trust I make myself plain, I'm
willing to meet any man at catch-weights. Now here, he continued," are some of my samples.
This story about a house-boat, for instance, has been much appreciated. It's almost in the
style of Mr. JEROME'S masterpiece; or this screamer about my wife's tobacco-pipe and the smoking
mixture. "Observe," he went on, holding the sample near to his mouth, "I can expand it to any
extent. Puff, puff! Ah! it has burst. No matter, these accidents sometimes happen to the best
regulated humorists. Now, just look at these," he produced half-a-dozen packets rapidly from
his bundle. "Here we have a packet of sarcasm--equal to dynamite. I left it on the steps of
the Savile Club, but it missed fire somehow. Then here are some particularly neat things in
cheques. I use them myself to paper my bedroom. It's simpler and easier than cashing them,
and besides," adjusting his mouth to his sleeve, and laughing, "it's quite killing when you
come to think of it in that way. Lastly, there's this banking-account sample, thoroughly suitable
for journalists and children. You see how it's done. I open it, you draw on it. Oh, you don't
want a drawing-master, any fellow can do it, and the point is it never varies. Now," he concluded,
aggressively, "what have you got to set against that, my friend?"

We all looked at TAMMAS. HENDRY kicked the pail towards him, and he put his foot on it. Thus
we knew that HEHDRY had returned to his ancient allegiance, and that the stranger would be
crushed. Then TAMMAS began--

"Man, man, there's no nae doubt at ye lauoh at havers, an' there's mony 'at lauchs 'at your
clipper-clapper, but they're no Thrums fowk, and they canna' lauch richt. But we maun juist
settle this matter. When we're ta'en up wi' the makkin' o' humour, we're a' dependent on other
fowk to tak' note o' the humour. There's no nane o' us 'at's lauched at anything you've telt
us. But they'll lauch at me. Noo then," he roared out, "'A pie sat on a pear-tree.'"

We all knew this song of TAMMAS'S. A shout of laughter went up from the whole gathering. The
stranger fell backwards into the sty a senseless mass.

"Man, man," said HOOKEY to TAMMAS, as we walked home; "what a crittur ye are! What pit that
in your heed?"

"It juist took a grip o' me," replied TAMMAS, without moving a muscle; "it flashed upon me
'at he'd no stand that auld song. That's where the humour o' it comes in."

"Ou, ay," added HENDRY, "Thrums is the place for rale humour." On the whole, I agree with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGGESTIVE.--My Musical Experiences, by BETTINA WALKER, will probably be followed by My Eye,
by BETTINA MARTIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Young Spark. "TRY ME! YOU'VE TOLERATED THAT FUSTY OLD FOGEY LONG ENOUGH!"

Old Flame (aside). "FLASHY YOUNG UPSTART!"]

    ["It is obvious that small tunnels for single lines, of the
    usual standard gauge, may be constructed some distance below
    the ground, and yet the atmosphere of such tunnels be as pure
    as upon a railway on the surface."--Illustrated London News,
    on the City & South London Electric Company.]

"Young Spark" loquitur:--

  Your arm, my dear Madam! This way, down the lift, Ma'am!
    No danger at all, no discomfort, no dirt!
  You love Sweetness and Light? They are both in my gift, Ma'am;
    I'll prove like a shot what I boldly assert.
  Don't heed your Old Flame, Ma'am, he's bitterly jealous,
    'Tis natural, quite, with his nose out of joint;
  You just let him bluster and blow like old bellows,
    And try me instead--I will not disappoint!
  Old Flame? He's a very fuliginous "Flame," Ma'am;
    I wonder, I'm sure, how you've stood him so long;
  He has choked you for years--'tis a thundering shame, Ma'am!
    High time the Young Spark put a term to his wrong.
  Just look at me! Am I not trim, smart, and sparkling,
    As clean as a pin, and as bright as a star?
  Compare me with him, who stands scowling and darkling!
    So gazed the old gallant on Young LOCHINVAR.

  He's ugly and huffy, and smoky, and stuffy,
    And pokey, and chokey, and black as my hat.
  As wooer he's dull, for his breath smells of sulphur;
    Asphyxia incarnate, and horrid at that!
  You cannot see beauty in one who's so sooty,
    So dusty, and dingy, and dismal, and dark.
  He's feeble and footy; 'tis plainly your duty
    To "chuck" the Old Flame, and take on the Young Spark.
  A Cyclops for lover, no doubt you discover,
    My dear Lady LONDON, is not comme il faut;
  If I do not woo you the sunny earth over.
    At least I lend light to love-making below.

  He's just like old Pluto, Persephone's prigger;
    You'll follow Apollo the Younger--that's me!
  He's sombre as Styx, and as black as a nigger.
    His lady-love, LONDON! Bah! Fiddle-de-dee!

  His murky monopoly, Madam, is ended.
    Come down, my dear love, to my subterrene hall!
  I think you'll admit it is sparkling and splendid,
    As clean as a palace, not black as a pall.
  Electrical traction with sheer stupefaction
    Strikes Steam, the old buffer, and spoils his small game.
  You're off with the old Love, so try the new bold Love,
    And let the Young Spark supersede the Old Flame.

  [Carries her off in triumph.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARS ABOUT PICTURES.

Close upon a hundred years ago, when GEORGE THE THIRD was King, MENDOZA opened a saloon in
the Strand, whereat various studies in Black and Blue might be enjoyed. To-day MENDOZA has
a gallery in King Street, which is devoted to studies in Black and White. You may say, history
repeats itself. Nothing of the kind. The gentleman of GEORGE THE THIRD'S time devoted himself
to the pugilistic art; the gentleman of the time of VICTORIA gives his attention to graphic
art. The one was the patron of fists, the other of fingers--that makes all the difference.
MENDOZA the Past, closed eyes--MENDOZA the Present opens them, and, if you go to the St. James's
Gallery, you will find a pleasant collection of Eye Art--open to all peepers. It is true it
may not be High Art, but you will find it, like Epps's Cocoa, "grateful and comforting."

Mr. MCLEAN, who has had an Art-show in the Haymarket since the days of GEORGE THE THIRD, or
rather his ancestor had, is "quite up to time, and smiling," with his present collection (your
Old PAR can't help using the argot of the P.R., and brings COLE, not to Newcastle, but to the
Haymarket, in "A Bend in the River, near Maple Durham." He shows us the views of BURTON BARBER
on "Compulsory Education," also a wondrous picture of the "Gate of the Great Mosque of Damascus,"
by BAUERNFEIND, "A Venetian Brunette," by FILDES, and many other works that will well repay
inspection, but of which there is no space for anything more to be said by yours par-enthetically,

OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLE ART (OF SNIGGLING).

    ["Whoever walks beside the river (the Ettrick), will observe
    five or six or more men and boys, equipped with gigantic
    wading-breeches, busy in each pool. They are only armed with
    rods and flies, and thus have a false appearance of being
    fair fishers.... The truth is that the apparent sportsmen are
    snigglers, not anglers. They drive the top part of their rods
    deep into the water, so as to rake the bottom, and then bring
    the hook out with a jerk. Every now and then ... one of
    the persecuted fishes ... is hauled out with short
    shrift."--Daily News.]

  Oh! the world's very bad, and our hearts they are sore
    As we think of the errors and wrongs we have got to
  Endure uncomplaining, and oh! we deplore
    The things people do, that they really ought not to!
  With Courtesy dead, and with Justice "a-bed,"
    When the mention of Love only causes a giggle,--
  But we'd manage to live and still hold up our head,
    Were it not for the villain who ventures to sniggle.

  With his rod and his hook see him carefully rake
    The bed of the river, and gallantly wading,
  Arrayed in his breeches, endeavour to make
    Of genuine sport but a mere masquerading.
  You might think him a fool for his trouble--but look!
    (And it's true, though at first it appears to be gammon)
  With a horrible jerk, as he pulls up his hook,
    The sportsmanlike sniggler has landed a salmon!

  As a nation of sportsmen, it rouses our ire
    To hear of sport ruined by such a proceeding;
  And to snigglers we earnestly wish and desire
    To give the advice they so sadly seem needing.
  Let them think, as they work their inglorious plan,
    How old IZAAK must turn in his grave and must wriggle;
  And may they in future all see if they can,
    By learning to angle, forget how to sniggle!

       *       *       *       *       *

IN OUR GARDEN.

Discovered on returning home that the Member for SARK had not at all exaggerated the facts
picturing disaster to our onion-bed. This portion of the garden had been disappointing from
the first. Early in the Spring, when hope beat high, and the young gardener's fancy lightly
turned to thoughts of large crops, SARK and I were resting after a frugal luncheon, when ARPACHSHAD
suddenly appeared at the open window. I knew from his beaming face that something was wrong.

Perhaps I should explain that ARPACHSHAD is our head gardener. We have no other, therefore
he is the head. Out of the garden he is known as PETER WALLOPS. It was SARK who insisted upon
calling him ARPACHSHAD. SARK had noticed that about the time of the Flood there was singular
deliberation in entering upon the marriage state. Matrimony did not seem to be thought of till
a man had turned the corner of a century. SHEM, himself, for example, was fully a hundred before
his third son, ARPACHSHAD, was born. But ARPACHSHAD was already a husband and a father at thirty-five.

"That," said SARK, "is a remarkable circumstance that has escaped the notice of the commentators.
It indicates unusual forwardness of character and a habit of swift decision. We hear nothing
more of ARPACHSHAD, but we may be sure he made things move. Now what we want in this garden
is a brisk man, a fellow always up to date, if not ahead of it. Let us encourage WALLOPS by
calling him ARPACHSHAD."

WALLOPS on being consulted said, he thought it ought to be a matter of another two shillings
a-week in his wages; to which I demurred, and it was finally compromised on the basis of a
rise of a shilling a-week. As far as I have observed, SARK'S device, like many others he has
put forward, has nothing in it. WALLOPS couldn't be slower in going round than is ARPACHSHAD.
The only time he ever displays any animation is when he discovers some fresh disaster. When
things are going well (which isn't often) he is gloomy and apprehensive of an early change
for the worse. When the worst comes he positively beams over it. Difficult to say whether he
enjoys himself more in an over-wet season, or in one of drought. His special and ever-recurring
joy is the discovery of some insect breaking out in a fresh place. He is always on the look-out
for the Mottled Amber Moth, or the Frit-fly, or the Currant Scale, or the Apple-bark Beetle,
or the Mustard Beetle,--"Black Jack," as he familiarly calls him. To see, as is not unfrequent,
a promising apple-tree, cherry-tree, or damson-tree, fading under the attack of the caterpillars
of the Winter Moth, makes ARPACHSHAD a new man. His back unbends, his wrinkles smooth out,
the gleam of faded youth reillumines his countenance, and his eyes melt in softer glance.

"The flies hev got at them honions," he said, on this Spring afternoon. "I thought they would,
and I reckon they're done for. Ever seen a honion-fly, Sir? A nice, lively, busy-looking thing;
pretty reddish-grey coat, with a whitish face, and pale grey wings. About this time of the
year it lays its eggs on the sheath of the onion-leaf, and within a week you've got the larvey
burrowing down into the bulb; after which, there's hardly any hope for your honion."

"Can nothing be done to save them?" SARK asked. As far me, I was too down-hearted to speak.

"Well," said ARPACHSHAD, ruefully, not liking the prospect of interfering with beneficent Nature,
"if you was to get a bag of soot, wait about till a shower was a coming on, carefully sprinkle
the plant, and let the soot wash in, that might save a few here and there. Or if you were to
get a can of paraffin, and syringe them, it would make the fly sit up. But I don't know as
how it's worth the trouble. Nater will have its way, and, if the fly wants the honion, who
are we that we should say it nay? I think, TOBY, M.P., if I was you, I'd let things take their
swing. It's a terrible thing to go a interfering with Nater."

But we didn't follow ARPACHSHAD'S advice. Having undertaken to run this garden, we were determined
to do it thoroughly; so I got SARK to sweep out the flues of the furnace in the greenhouse,
in the course of which he broke several panes of glass, not expecting, so he explained, to
find the handle of his brush so near the roof. We half filled a sack with soot, and carried
it to the onion-bed. Then we waited for a wet day, usually plentiful enough in haymaking time,
now long deferred. ARPACHSHAD insisted that we were to make quite sure that rain was coming--then
sprinkle the soot over the unsuspectiong onion. "We waited just too long, not starting till
the rain began to fall. Found it exceedingly unpleasant handling the soot under conditions
of moisture. But, as SARK said, having put our hands to the soot-bag, we were not going to
turn back. Nor did we till we had completed the task, ARPACHSHAD looking on, cheered only by
the hope that the heavy rain would wash the soot off before it could have any effect on the
fly. On the whole, the task proved productive of reward. Either ARPACHSHAD had been mistaken,
and the crop had not been attacked by the fly, or the soot had done its work. Anyhow, the bed
bloomed and blossomed, and, at the time I left for Midlothian, was looking exceedingly well.
Then came SARK'S telegram, as described in the last chapter. After the fly came the mildew.
Close on the heels, or rather the wings, of the Anthomyia Ceparum, fell the Peronospora Schleideniana.

"It isn't often it happens," said ARPACHSHAD, rubbing his hands gleefully;--"but, when you
get one on the top of t'other, you don't look for much crop in that particular year."

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW IT'S DONE.

A Hand-book to Honesty.

NO. V.--MONEY LENT (ONE WAY AMONG MANY.)

SCENE I.--Apartment of innocent but temporarily impecunious person.

I.P. discovered reading advertisements and correspondence.

Impecunious Person. Humph! It sounds all right. I have heard that these Loan-mongers are sometimes
scoundrels and sharks. But this one is surely genuine. There is a manly frankness, a sort of
considerate and sympathetic delicacy about him, that quite appeals to one. No inquiry fees,
no publicity, no delay! Just what I want. Has clients, men of capital, but not speculators,
who wish to invest money on sound security at reasonable interest. Just so! Note of hand of
any respectable person sufficient. That's all right. Advance at a few hours' notice. Excellent!
Let me see, the address is Fitz-Guelph Mansions, W. That sounds respectable enough. A penniless
shark would hardly live there. By Jove, I'll write, and make an appointment at his own address,
as he suggests.

[Does so, hopefully.

SCENE II.--Fitz-Guelph Mansions, W., at 11 A.M. Enter Impecunious Person, hurriedly.

Impecunious Person. Ah! I'm a little bit late, but here's the place sure enough, and that's
the number. Fine house, too. Nothing sharkish about this, anyhow.

[Makes for No. 14, consulting his watch. On door-step encounters another person, also apparently
in a hurry, and also consulting his watch. This person is perhaps a trifle shabby-genteel in
attire, but genially pompous and semi-military in bearing. He makes as if to go, but stopping
suddenly, stares at I.P., and addresses him.--

Ahem! I--a--beg pardon, I'm sure, but have you by any chance an appointment for 11 A.M. at
this address, with a Mr. MUGSNAP?

I.P. Why--a--yes, as a matter of fact, I have.

Mr. Mugsnap. Quite so. And your name is SOFTSHELL?

I.P. Well--yes, as a matter of fact, it is.

Mr. Mugsnap (cheerily). Ah! that's all right. Well met, Mr. SOFTSHELL! (Produces letter.) This
is yours, I fancy. The time was eleven sharp, and you're just seven minutes and a quarter behind.
I was just off, for if I gave all my clients seven minutes and a quarter grace, I should lose
about four hours a day, Sir. (Laughs jovially.) But no matter! Just step this way. (Produces
latch-key.) But no, on second thoughts I won't go back. Unlucky, you know! We'll step across
to the Wine Shades yonder, and talk our business over together with a glass of sound port,
my boy. Best glass of port in London, BUMPUS sells, and as an old Army Man I appreciate it.

[They cross to "The Shades," where Mr. MUGSNAP wins upon his companion by his hearty style,
and all difficulties in the way of "an early advance" are smoothed away in a highly satisfactory
manner. A couple of references, of course, "just as a matter of form," and a couple of guineas
for visiting them. Not an Inquiry Fee, oh! dear no, merely "expenses." Some people apply for
a loan, and, when everything is arranged, actually decline to receive it! Must provide against
that, you knew. Within three days at the outside, Mr. SOFTSHELL is assured, that money will
be in his hands without fail. Meanwhile the "couple o' guineas" leave his hands, and Mr. MUGSNAP
leaves him, hopeful, and admiring.

I.P. (strolling homeward). Very pleasant person, Mr. MUGSNAP. Quite a pleasure to deal with
him. Sharks, indeed! How worthy people get misrepresented! By the way, though, there's one
question I forgot to ask him. I'll just step back. Don't suppose he has gone yet.

[Returns to No. 14, Fitz-Guelph Mansions. Knocks, and is answered by smart and austere-looking
Domestic.

I.P. Oh, just tell Mr. MUGSNAP I should like just one word more with him. Won't detain him
a moment.

Austere Domestic. Mr. MUGSNAP! And who's Mr. MUGSNAP, pray? Don't know any sech persing.

I.P. Oh yes, he lives here. Met him, by appointment, only an hour ago. Hasn't he returned?

A.D. (emphatically). I tell you there ain't no Mr. MUGSNAP lives here at all.

I.P. Oh dear, yes! Stout gentleman--military appearance--white waistcoat!

A.S. (scornfully). Oh, him! I saw sech a party 'anging about suspiciously awhile ago, and spoke
to the perliceman about him. But I don't know him, and he don't live here! [Shuts door sharply.

I.P. (perspiring profusely, as the state of things dawns upon him! ) Phew! I see it all. "A
plant." That's why he met me on the door-step. Of course he doesn't live here at all. Gave
a respectable address, and watched for me outside! And the sleek-spoken shark is gone! So are
my two guineas!

[Retires a sadder, and a wiser man.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAN OF SCIENCE.

    [It has been suggested, with reference to an amusing article
    in Blackwood, on a new religion, that science is equal to
    it.]

PROFESSOR PROTOPLASM sings:--

  I'm a mighty man of science, and on that I place reliance,
    And I hurl a stern defiance at what other people say:
  Learning's torch I fiercely kindle, with my HAECKEL, HUXLEY, TYNDALL,
    And all preaching is a swindle, that's the motto of to-day.
  I'd give the wildest latitude to each agnostic attitude,
    And everything's a platitude that springs not from my mind:
  I've studied entomology, astronomy, conchology,
    And every other 'ology that anyone can find.
      I am a man of science, with my bottles on the shelf,
      I'm game to make a little world, and govern it myself.

  I'm a demon at dissection, and I've always had affection
    For a curious collection from both animals and man:
  I've a lovely pterodactyle, some old bones a little cracked, I'll
    Get some mummies, and in fact I'll pounce on anything I can.
  I'm full of lore botanical, and chemistry organical,
    I oft put in a panic all the neighbours I must own:
  They smell the fumes and phosphorus from London to the Bosphorus:
    Oh, sad would be the loss for us, had I been never known.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR OTHER "WILLIAM."--Question by the G.O.M. on quitting the North,--"Stands Scotland where
it did?"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Read The World and the Will, by JAMES PAYN, says the Baron. Successful novelist is our "J.P."
for England and the Colonies generally. "The profits blazoned on the Payn," is a line he quotes,
with a slight difference of spelling, in his present three volumes, which is full of good things;
his own "asides" being, to my thinking, quoth the Baron, by far the most enjoyable part of
his books. Herein he resembles THACKERAY, who used to delight in taking the reader behind the
scenes, and exhibiting the wires. Not so JAMES PAYN. He comes in front, and comments upon the
actions of his puppets, or upon men and morals in general, or he makes a quip, or utters a
quirk, or proposes a quiddity, and pauses to laugh with you, before he resumes the story, and
says, with the older romancers, "But to our tale." Most companionable writer is JAMES PAYN.
Tells his story so clearly. A PAYN to be seen through.

In the christening of his Christmas books, Mr. MERRY ANDREW LANG has hit upon a genuine Happy
Thought, on which the Baron begs sincerely to congratulate him. It is a perfect little gold
mine as a book-title series. Last year M. ANDREW LANG wrote, and LANGMAN'S--no, beg pardon--LONGMANS
published The Blue Fairy Book. The Blue Fairy Book, when it appeared, however, was read everywhere,
so this year the MERRY ANDREW issues The Red Fairy Book, which, of course, will be more read
than the other. Excellent notion! Where will it stop? Why should it stop? Next year there'll
be The Green Fairy Book; in '92 the Yellow Fairy Book (commencing with new version of Yellow
Dwarf), then the White, then the Black, then the Ver-millionth edition, and so on and so on,
ad infinitum, through all the possible stages of the combination and permutation of colour.

The Magazine of Art for 1890, published by CASSELL & Co., is one of the best of its kind for
pictures and Art-articles, The Mixture as before.

"Christmas is coming"--but the Publishers seem to think that the Merry Old Gentleman will be
here to-morrow. Yet we know the proverbial history of to-morrow. However, to humour the up-to-date
notion, the Baron recommends to his young friends who wish to amuse their elders, Dolldom,
a dolls' opera, by CLIFTON BINGHAM, set to music by FLORIAN PASCAL. Some of the songs are exquisite.
It would make a very funny play, children imitating dolls. Published by J. WILLIAMS.

BLACKIE AND SON, are going it. Here are two more, by their indefatigable writer, G.A. HENTY:
By Right of Conquest; or, With Cortez in Mexico. The young Sixteenth-Century boy, by his marvellous
adventures, proves his right to be a hero in the Conquest of Mexico. Of a more modern date
is A Chapter of Accidents, which deals with the Bombardment of Alexandria. The young fisher-lad
has to go through many chapters of adventure before he reaches a happy ending. A Rough Shaking,
by GEORGE MACDONALD, is a capital boys' book, while The Light Princess, and other Fairy Stories,
by the same author, will please the Baron's old-fashioned fairy-book readers at Christmas-time.

Whoever possesses the Henry Irving Shakspeare,--started originally by my dear old enthusiastic
friend the late FRANK MARSHALL, and now concluded by the new volume of plays, poems, and sonnets,--possesses
a literary treasure. The notes are varied, interesting, and all valuable. The illustrations
exactly serve their purpose, which is the highest praise.

MR. SMALLEY'S Letters are not to an Inconnue. They were written to his paper, the Tribune,
and have redressed the balance between the Old World and the New by furnishing New York from
week to week with brilliant, incisive, and faithful pictures of life in London. The initials,
"G.W.S.," appended in their original form, are as familiar throughout the United States as
are those of our own "G.A.S." in the still United Kingdom. Mr. SMALLEY goes everywhere, sees
everything, knows everybody, and his readers in New York learn a great deal more of what is
going on in London than some of us who live here. Most public men of the present day, whether
in politics, literature, or art, have, all unconsciously, sat to "G.W.S." He has a wonderful
gift of seizing the salient points of a character, and reproducing them in a few pellucid sentences.
The men he treats of have many friends who will be delighted to find that Mr. SMALLEY'S pen
is dipped in just enough gall to make the writing pleasant to those who are not its topic.
Personalities is the alluring title of the first volume, which contains forty-two studies of
character. It is dangerous kind of work; but Mr. SMALLEY has skilfully steered his passage.
Written for a newspaper, London Letters (MACMILLAN & CO.) rank higher than journalism. They
will take their place in Literature.

November Number of the English Illustrated Magazine, excellent. Wykehamists, please note Mr.
GALE'S article, and Lord SELBORNE'S introduction. The COOKE who presides in this particular
kitchen serves up a capital dish every month--and "quite English, you know."

My faithful "Co." has been rather startled by a volume called The Decline and Fall of the British
Empire, written by "Anonymous," and published by the Messrs. TRISCHLER. The tome deals with
Australia, rather than England, and is dated a thousand years hence; so those who have no immediate
leisure will have plenty of time to read it before the events therein recorded, so to speak,
reach maturity.

