 Even without the
nets, caught she will be, from sheer fatigue, (15) owing to the depth of the snow, which balls
itself under her shaggy feet and clings to her, a sheer dead weight.

 (11) Al. "to envelop the victims in the nets."

 (12) Lit. "whatever the creature is in contact with inside."

 (13) Cf. Aesch. "Prom." 87, {Poto tropo tesd' ekkulisthesei tukhes}.

 (14) Or, "if the creature is not first suffocated in the snow itself."

 (15) See Pollux, v. 50. "She must presently be tired out in the heavy
    snow, which balls itself like a fatal clog clinging to the under
    part of her hairy feet."

IX

For hunting fawns (1) and deer, (2) Indian dogs (3) should be employed, as being strong, large,
and fleet-footed, and not devoid of spirit; with these points they will prove well equal to
the toil.

 (1) See Hom. "Il." xxii. 189, x. 361; "Od." iv. 35; Aelian, "N. A."
    xiv. 14; xvii. 26; Geopon. xix. 5.

 (2) {e elaphos} (generic, Attic) = hart or hind, of roe (Capreolus
    caprea) or red (Cervus elaphus) deer alike, I suppose. See St.
    John, "Nat. Hist. and Sport in Moray."

 (3) Of the Persian or Grecian greyhound type perhaps. See Aristot. "H.
    A." viii. 28; Aelian, "N. A." viii. 1; Pollux, v. 37, 38, 43;
    Plin. "H. N." vii. 2, viii. 28; Oppian, "Cyn." i. 413.

Quite young fawns (4) should be captured in spring, that being the season at which the dams
calve. (5) Some one should go beforehand into the rank meadowlands (6) and reconnoitre where
the hinds are congregated, and wherever that may be, the master of the hounds will set off--with
his hounds and a supply of javelins--before daylight to the place in question. Here he will
attach the hounds to trees (7) some distance off, for fear of their barking, (8) when they
catch sight of the deer. That done he will choose a specular point himself and keep a sharp
look-out. (9) As day breaks he will espy the hinds leading their fawns to the places where
they will lay them severally to rest. (10) Having made them lie down and suckled them, they
will cast anxious glances this way and that to see that no one watches them; and then they
will severally withdraw to the side opposite and mount guard, each over her own offspring.
The huntsman, who has seen it all, (11) will loose the dogs, and with javelins in hand himself
advance towards the nearest fawn in the direction of where he saw it laid to rest; carefully
noting the lie of the land, (12) for fear of making some mistake; since the place itself will
present a very different aspect on approach from what it looked like at a distance.

 (4) See above, v. 14. I do not know that any one has answered
    Schneider's question: Quidni sensum eundem servavit homo
    religiosus in hinnulis?

 (5) "The fawns (of the roe deer) are born in the spring, usually early
    in May," Lydekker, "R. N. H." ii. p. 383; of the red deer
    "generally in the early part of June," ib. 346.

 (6) {orgadas} = "gagnages," du Fouilloux, "Comment le veneur doit
    aller en queste aux taillis ou gaignages pour voir le cerf a
    veue," ap. Talbot, op. cit. i. p. 331.

 (7) Or, "off the wood."

 (8) It seems they were not trained to restrain themselves.

 (9) Or, "set himself to observe from some higher place." Cf. Aristoph.
    "Wasps," 361, {nun de xun oplois} | {andres oplitai diataxamenoi}
    | {kata tas diodous skopiorountai}. Philostr. 784.

 (10) See Pollux, v. 77; Aristot. "H. A." ix. 5. Mr. Scrope ap.
    Lydekker, "R. N. H." ii. p. 346, states that the dam of the red
    deer makes her offspring "lie down by a pressure of her nose,"
    etc.

 (11) Lit. "when he sees these things."

 (12) Or, "the features of the scene"; "the topography."

When his eye has lit upon the object of his search, he will approach quite close. The fawn
will keep perfectly still, glued (13) as it were to earth, and with loud bleats suffer itself
to be picked up; unless it happen to be drenched with rain; in which case, it will not stay
quiet in one place. No doubt, the internal moisture of the animal congeals quickly with the
cold (14) and causes it to shift its ground. Caught in that case it must needs be; but the
hounds will have work enough to run the creature down. (15) The huntsman having seized the
fawn, will hand it to the keeper. The bleating will continue; and the hind, partly seeing and
partly hearing, will bear down full tilt upon the man who has got her young, in her desire
to rescue it. Now is the moment to urge on the hounds and ply the javelins. And so having mastered
this one, he will proceed against the rest, and employ the same method of the chase in dealing
with them.

 (13) {piesas}, "noosling, nestling, buried."

 (14) "The blood runs cold."

 (15) Or, "but it will give them a good chase; the dogs will have their
    work cut out."

Young fawns may be captured in the way described. Those that are already big will give more
trouble, since they graze with their mothers and the other deer, and when pursued retire in
the middle of the herd or occasionally in front, but very seldom in the rear. The deer, moreover,
in order to protect their young will do battle with the hounds and trample them under foot;
so that capture is not easy, unless you come at once to close quarters and scatter the herd,
with the result that one or another of the fawns is isolated. The effort implies (16) a strain,
and the hounds will be left behind in the first heat of the race, since the very absence of
their dams (17) will intensify the young deer's terror, and the speed of a fawn, that age and
size, is quite incredible. (18) But at the second or third run they will be quickly captured;
since their bodies being young and still unformed cannot hold out long against fatigue.

 (16) Lit. "after that violent effort."

 (17) Or, "alarm at the absence of the herd will lend the creature
    wings."

 (18) Or, "is past compare"; "is beyond all telling."

Foot-gins (19) or caltrops may be set for deer on mountains, in the neighbourhood of meadows
and streams and wooded glens, on cross-roads (20) or in tilled fields at spots which they frequent.
(21) These gins should be made of twisted yew twigs (22) stripped of the bark to prevent their
rotting. They should have well-rounded hooplike "crowns" (23) with alternate rows of nails
of wood and iron woven into the coil. (24) The iron nails should be larger, so that while the
wooden ones yield to the foot, the others may press into it. (25) The noose of the cord which
will be laid upon "the crown" should be woven out of esparto and so should the rope itself,
this kind of grass being least liable to rot. The rope and noose itself should both alike be
stout. The log or clog of wood attached should be made of common or of holm oak with the bark
on, three spans in length, and a palm in thickness. (26)

 (19) {podostrabai}, podostrabai so called. Cf. "the boot."

 (20) {en tais diodois}, "at points where paths issue," or "cross."

 (21) {pros o ti prosie}, "against whatever they are likely to
    approach."

 (22) Or, "should be woven out of Smilax"; "Ebenholz," Lenz; "Ifs,"
    Gail.

 (23) {tas de stephanas euk. ekh.} "having circular rims."

 (24) {en to plokano} (al. {plokamo}) = the plaited rope, which formed
    the {stephane}. See Pollux, v. 32, ap. Schneid. and Lenz.

 (25) Al. "so as to press into the foot, if the wooden ones yield."

 (26) Or, "27 inches x 3."

