The first person I met was my friend Mark Norrington, and--Even now, though months have since
rolled over my head, I shudder at the recollection of the agonies I suffered; when assured
by him of the frightful fact, that I had, really and truly, engaged myself to travel in a coach,
which, really and truly, did start at five in the morning. But as the novel-writers of the
good old Minerva school used, in similar cases, to say, "in pity to my sympathising reader's
feelings, I must draw the mysterious veil of concealment over my, oh! too acute sufferings!"
These, I must own, were, in no little degree, aggravated by the manner of my friend. Mark,
as a sort of foil to his many excellent qualities, has one terrible failing: it is a knack
of laughing at one's misfortunes; or, to use his own palliating phrase, he has a habit of looking
at the ridiculous side of things. Ridiculous! Heavens! as if any one possessing a spark of
humanity could perceive anything to excite his mirth in the circumstance of a fellow-creature's
being forced out of his bed at such an hour! After exhibiting many contortions of the mouth,
produced by a decent desire to maintain a gravity suitable to the occasion, he, at length,
burst into a loud laugh; and exclaiming (with a want of feeling I shall never entirely forget)
"Well, I wish you joy of your journey--you must be UP at four!"--away he went. It may be asked
why I did not forfeit my forty-four shillings, and thus escape the calamity. No; the laugh
would have been too much against me: so, resolving to put a bold face on the matter, I--I will
not say I walked--positively swaggered about the streets of Bristol, for an hour or two, with
all the self-importance of one who has already performed some extraordinary exploit, and is
conscious that the wondering gaze of the multitude is directed towards him. Being condemned
to the miseries, it was but fair that I should enjoy the honours of the undertaking. To every
person I met, with whom I had the slightest acquaintance, I said aloud, "I start at five to-morrow
morning!" at the same time adjusting my cravat and pulling up my collar: and I went into three
or four shops, and purchased trifles, for which I had no earthly occasion, for the pure gratification
of my vain-glory, in saying--"Be sure you send them to-night, for I start at five in the morning!"
But beneath all this show of gallantry, my heart like that of many another hero on equally
desperate occasions--my heart was ill at ease. I have often thought that my feelings, for the
whole of that distressing afternoon, must have been very like those of a person about to go,
for the first time, up in a balloon. I returned to Reeves' Hotel, College-green, where I was
lodging. "I'll pack my portmanteau (the contents of which were scattered about in the drawers,
on the tables, and on the chairs)--that will be so much gained on the enemy," thought I; but
on looking at my watch, I found I had barely time to dress for dinner; the Norrington's, with
whom I was engaged, being punctual people. "No matter; I'll pack it to-night." 'Twas well I
came to that determination; for the instant I entered the drawing-room, Mrs. Norrington rang
the bell, and just said to the servant who appeared at its summons--"Dinner:" a dissyllable
which, when so uttered, timed, and accompanied, is a polite hint that the dinner has not been
improved by your late arrival.

My story, however, had arrived there before me; and I must do my friends the justice to say,
that all that kindness could do for me, under the circumstances, was done. Two or three times,
indeed, Mark looked at me full in the face, and laughed outright, without any apparent cause
for such a manifestation of mirth; and once when, after a few glasses of wine, I had almost
ceased to think of the fate that awaited me, Miss Adelaide suddenly inquired, "Do you really
start at five?--isn't that rather early?"--"Rather," replied I, with all the composure I could
assume. But for a smile, and a sly look at her papa, I might have attributed the distressing
question to thoughtlessness, rather than a deliberate desire to inflict pain. To parody a well-known
line, I may say that, upon the whole--

  "To me this Twelfth-night was no night of mirth."

Before twelve o'clock, I left a pleasant circle, revelling in all the delights of Twelfth-cake,
pam-loo, king-and-queen, and forfeits, to pack my portmanteau,

  "And inly ruminate the morning's danger!"

The individual who, at this time, so ably filled the important office of "Boots," at the hotel,
was a character. Be it remembered that, in his youth, he had been discharged from his place
for omitting to call a gentleman, who was to go by one of the morning coaches, and who, thereby,
missed his journey. This misfortune made a lasting impression on the intelligent mind of Mr. Boots.

"Boots," said I in a mournful tone, "you must call me at four o'clock."

"Do'ee want to get up, zur?" inquired he, with a broad Somersetshire twang.

"Want indeed! no; but I must."

"Well, zur, I'll carl 'ee; but will 'ee get up when I do carl?"

"Why, to be sure I will."

"That be all very well to zay over-night, zur; but it bean't at all the zame thing when marnen
do come. I knoa that of old, zur. Gemmen doan't like it, zur, when the time do come--that I
tell 'ee."

"Like it! who imagines they should?"

"Well, zur, if you be as sure to get up as I be to carl 'ee, you'll not knoa what two minutes
arter vore means in your bed. Sure as ever clock strikes, I'll have 'ee out, dang'd if I doan't!
Good night, zur;" and exit Boots.

"And now I'll pack my portmanteau."

It was a bitter cold night, and my bed-room fire had gone out. Except the rush-candle, in a
pierced tin box, I had nothing to cheer the gloom of a very large apartment--the walls of which
(now dotted all over by the melancholy rays of the rush-light, as they struggled through the
holes of the box) were of dark-brown wainscoat--but one solitary wax taper. There lay coats,
trousers, linen, books, papers, dressing-materials, in dire confusion, about the room. In despair
I set me down at the foot of the bed, and contemplated the chaos around me. My energies were
paralyzed by the scene. Had it been to gain a kingdom, I could not have thrown a glove into
the portmanteau; so, resolving to defer the packing till the morrow, I got into bed.

My slumbers were fitful--disturbed. Horrible dreams assailed me. Series of watches, each pointing
to the hour of FOUR, passed slowly before me--then, time-pieces--dials, of a larger size--and
at last, enormous steeple-clocks, all pointing to FOUR, FOUR, FOUR. "A change came o'er the
spirit of my dream," and endless processions of watchmen moved along, each mournfully dinning
in my ears, "Past four o'clock." At length I was attacked by night-mare. Methought I was an
hourglass--old Father Time bestrode me--he pressed upon me with unendurable weight--fearfully
and threateningly did wave his scythe above my head--he grinned at me, struck three blows,
audible blows, with the handle of his scythe, on my breast, stooped his huge head, and shrieked
in my ear--

"Vore o'clock, zur; I zay it be vore o'clock."

"Well, I hear you."

"But I doan't hear you. Vore o'clock, zur."

"Very well, very well, that'll do."

"Beggin' your pardon, but it woan't do, zur. 'Ee must get up--past vore zur."

"The devil take you! will you--"

"If you please, zur; but 'ee must get up. It be a good deal past vore--no use for 'ee to grumble,
zur; nobody do like gettin' up at vore o'clock as can help it; but 'ee toald I to carl 'ee,
and it bean't my duty to go till I hear 'ee stirrin' about the room. Good deal past vore, 'tis
I assure 'ee, zur." And here he thundered away at the door; nor did he cease knocking till
I was fairly up, and had shown myself to him, in order to satisfy him of the fact. "That'll
do, zur; 'ee toald I to carl 'ee, and I hope I ha' carld 'ee properly."

I lit my taper at the rush-light. On opening a window-shutter I was regaled with the sight
of a fog, which London itself, on one of its most perfect November days, could scarcely have
excelled. A dirty, drizzling rain was falling; my heart sank within me. It was now twenty minutes
past four. I was master of no more than forty disposable minutes, and, in that brief space,
what had I not to do! The duties of the toilet were indispensable--the portmanteau must be
packed--and, run as fast as I might, I could not get to the coach-office in less than ten minutes.
Hot water was a luxury not to be procured: at that villanous hour not a human being in the
house (nor, do I believe, in the universe entire), had risen--my unfortunate self, and my companion
in wretchedness, poor Boots, excepted. The water in the jug was frozen; but, by dint of hammering
upon it with the handle of the poker, I succeeded in enticing out about as much as would have
filled a tea-cup. Two towels, which had been left wet in the room, were standing on a chair
bolt upright, as stiff as the poker itself, which you might, almost as easily, have bent. The
tooth-brushes were rivetted to the glass, of which (in my haste to disengage them from their
strong hold) they carried away a fragment; the soap was cemented to the dish; my shaving-brush
was a mass of ice. In shape more appalling Discomfort had never appeared on earth. I approached
the looking-glass. Even had all the materials for the operation been tolerably thawed, it was
impossible to use a razor by such a light.--"Who's there?"

"Now, if 'ee please, zur; no time to lose; only twenty-vive minutes to vive."

I lost my self-possession--I have often wondered that morning did not unsettle my mind!

There was no time for the performance of any thing like a comfortable toilet. I resolved therefore
to defer it altogether till the coach should stop to breakfast.

"I'll pack my portmanteau: that must be done." In went whatever happened to come first to hand.
In my haste, I had thrust in, amongst my own things, one of mine host's frozen towels. Every
thing must come out again. "Who's there?"

"Now, zur; 'ee'll be too late, zur!"

"Coming!"--Every thing was now gathered together;--the portmanteau would not lock. No matter,
it must be content to travel to town in a deshabille of straps. Where were my boots? In my
hurry, I had packed away both pair. It was impossible to travel to London, on such a day, in
slippers. Again was every thing to be undone.

"Now, zur, coach be going."

The most unpleasant part of the ceremony of hanging (scarcely excepting the closing act) must
be the hourly notice given to the culprit, of the exact length of time he has yet to live.
Could any circumstance have added much to the miseries of my situation, most assuredly it would
have been those unfeeling reminders. "I'm coming," groaned I; "I have only to pull on my boots."
They were both left-footed! Then must I open the rascally portmanteau again.

"What in the name of the--do you want now."

"Coach be gone, please zur."

"Gone! Is there a chance of my overtaking it?"

"Bless 'ee, noa, zur; not as Jem Robbins do droive. He be vive mile off be now."

"You are certain of that?"

"I warrant 'ee, zur."

At this assurance I felt a throb of joy, which was almost a compensation for all my sufferings
past. "Boots," said I, "you are a kind-hearted creature, and I will give you an additional
half-crown. Let the house be kept perfectly quiet, and desire the chambermaid to call me--"

"At what o'clock, zur?"

"This day three months, at the earliest."

P--.

New Monthly Magazine.

[***] A welcome re-action seems to have taken place in the conduct of the New Monthly Magazine.
The present is an auspicious New-year's Number. It is, moreover, embellished with a fine Bust
Engraving of Sir Walter Scott, Bart.

    [1] "There are not two bricks in your accursed town," said the
        tragedian, "but are cemented with the blood of an African."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PENITENT'S RETURN.

By Mrs. Hemans.

  Can guilt or misery ever enter here?
  All! no, the spirit of domestic peace,
  Though calm and gentle as the brooding dove,
  And ever murmuring forth a quiet song,
  Guards, powerful as the sword of Cherubim,
  The hallow'd Porch. She hath a heavenly smile,
  That sinks into the sullen soul of vice,
  And wins him o'er to virtue.

  WILSON.

      My father's house once more,
  In its own moonlight beauty! Yet around,
  Something, amidst the dewy calm profound,
      Broods, never mark'd before.

      Is it the brooding night?
  Is it the shivery creeping on the air,
  That makes the home, so tranquil and so fair,
      O'erwhelming to my sight?

      All solemnized it seems,
  And still'd and darken'd in each time-worn hue,
  Since the rich clustering roses met my view,
      As now, by starry gleams.

      And this high elm, where last
  I stood and linger'd--where my sisters made
  Our mother's bower--I deem'd not that it cast
      So far and dark a shade.

      How spirit-like a tone
  Sighs through yon tree! My father's place was was there
  At evening-hours, while soft winds waved his hair:
      Now those grey locks are gone.

      My soul grows faint with fear,--
  Even as if angel-steps had mark'd the sod.
  I tremble where I move--the voice of God
      Is in the foliage here.

      Is it indeed the night
  That makes my home so awful? Faithless hearted!
  'Tis that from thine own bosom hath departed
      The in-born gladdening light.

      No outward thing is changed;
  Only the joy of purity is fled,
  And, long from Nature's melodies estranged,
      Thou hear'st their tones with dread.

      Therefore, the calm abode
  By thy dark spirit is o'erhung with shade,
  And, therefore, in the leaves, the voice of God
      Makes thy sick heart afraid.

      The night-flowers round that door
  Still breathe pure fragrance on the untainted air;
  Thou, thou alone, art worthy now no more
      To pass, and rest thee there.

      And must I turn away?
  Hark, hark!--it is my mother's voice I hear,
  Sadder than once it seem'd--yet soft and clear--
      Doth she not seem to pray?

      My name!--I caught the sound!
  Oh! blessed tone of love--the deep, the mild--
  Mother, my mother! Now receive thy child,
      Take back the Lost and Found!

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUBERGE ON THE GRIMSEL.

(For the Mirror.)

The Grimsel is one of the stupendous mountains of Switzerland, 5,220 feet in height, as marked
on Keller's admirable map of that country. It is situated within the Canton of Berne, but bordering
on that of the Valais, and not far from Uri. The auberge represented in the sketch, although
not quite upon the very summit of the mountain, is almost above the limit of vegetation, and
far remote from any other dwelling. Indeed, excepting a few chalets, used as summer shelter
for the attendants upon the mountain cattle, but deserted in winter, there is no human habitation
for many miles round; and it is one of the very few spots where the traveller has an opportunity
of reposing for the night, under a comfortable roof, in so lofty a region of the atmosphere,
amidst scenes of Alpine desolation--or rather, the primitive elements of Nature, "the naked
bones of the earth waiting to be clothed."

The proprietor of this simple, but agreeable, auberge, is what Jeannie Deans called her father,
"a man of substance," and amongst other sources of wealth possesses about three hundred goats,
which contrive to pick up their living from the scanty verdure of the surrounding hills. Three
times a-day they regularly assemble in front of the auberge to be milked, affording the raw
material for a considerable manufacture of cheese. While we were lounging about before dinner,
admiring the beautiful shapes of the rocky peaks, which even in the beginning of September
were blanched with the previous night's snow, we were pleasantly surprised by the sound of
a cheerful bleating, which was echoed on every side; and one after another the graceful creatures,
as small and playful as our kids, popped up amongst the fragments of rocks from all quarters
until the "gathering" was complete, and our meal was enlivened by the treble of their voices
as the milking proceeded. When the operation was over, off they scampered again, "the hills
before them were to choose"--again to return in due season with their bounteous store for the
benefit of man. "This is not solitude." The milk is rich, but tastes rather too strong of the
goat to be agreeable to every one at first, although probably we should soon have thought cow's
milk comparatively insipid. On the day's journey we had seen some of these goats at a considerable
distance from the auberge, and a young man who carried our luggage, after giving chase to several,
at length caught one, and in spite of her remonstrances, milked her by main force into the
cup of a pocket flask, that we might enjoy a draught of the beverage. Still holding the animal,
he then filled the vessel more than once for himself, and it was amusing to see the gusto with
which he drank it off. We afterwards had the milk with coffee; indeed both here and on the
Righi it was "Hobson's choice," goat's milk or none at all.

This auberge has been built on the Grimsel of late years for the accommodation of travellers
across the mountain passes; and it forms a convenient night's resting place in a two day's
journey on foot or horseback (the only modes of threading these Alpine paths) between the valley
of Meyringen and that of Urseren. It may be useful briefly to notice this route, in which the
traveller will be charmed with a succession of scenery on Nature's grandest scale. After leaving
Meyringen and its beautiful valley, called the Vale of Hasli, he looks down from the top of
a mountain pass upon a small compact, oval-shaped valley, named, we believe Hasligrund, into
which he descends, and then climbs the mountains on the opposite side. Proceeding onward, he
reaches a small place, Handek, formed of a few wood chalets, and giving its name to one of
the finest waterfalls in Switzerland. The accessories of the sublimest scenery give additional
interest to the beauty of the fall, at which our traveller will feel inclined to linger; he
should endeavour to be there about noon, when the sun irradiates the spray like dancing rainbows.
The rest of the day's route is, in general, ascending, and partly across splendid sweeps of
bare granite, until his eyes are gladdened with the sight of the auberge.

