That afternoon the Prince had business at the Staff Headquarters out beyond Lowice, and I went
out there in the automobile with him and Monsieur Goochkoff. We went through Lowice on the
way there. The little town had been severely bombarded (it was taken two or three days later
by the Germans), and we met many of the peasants hurrying away from it carrying their possessions
with them. You may know the peasants of Lowice anywhere by their distinctive dress, which is
the most brilliantly coloured peasant dress imaginable. The women wear gorgeous petticoats
of orange, red and blue, or green in vertical stripes and a cape of the same material over
their shoulders, a bright-coloured shawl, generally orange, on their heads, and brilliant bootlaces--magenta
is the colour most affected. The men, too, wear trousers of the same kind of vertical stripes,
generally of orange and black. These splashes of bright colour are delicious in this sad, grey
country.

The General of the Staff was quartered at Radzivilow Castle, and I explored the place while
the Prince and Monsieur Goochkoff did their business. The old, dark hall, with armour hanging
on the walls and worm-eaten furniture covered with priceless tapestry, would have made a splendid
picture. A huge log fire burning on the open hearth lighted up the dark faces of the two Turkestan
soldiers who were standing on guard at the door. In one corner a young lieutenant was taking
interminable messages from the field telephone, and under the window another Turkestan soldier
stood sharpening his dagger. The Prince asked him what he was doing, and his dark face lighted
up. "Every night at eight," he said, still sharpening busily, "I go out and kill some Germans."
The men of this Turkestan regiment are said to be extraordinarily brave men. They do not care
at all about a rifle, but prefer to be at closer quarters with the enemy with their two-edged
dagger, and the Germans like them as little as they like our own Gurkhas and Sikhs.

The next day the wounded began to arrive in Skiernevice, and in two days' time the temporary
hospital was full.

The Tsar had a private theatre at Skiernevice with a little separate station of its own about
200 yards farther down the line than the ordinary station, and in many ways this made quite
a suitable hospital except for the want of a proper water-supply.

The next thing we heard was that the Russian General had decided to fall back once more, and
we must be prepared to move at any moment.

All that day we heard violent cannonading going on and all the next night, though the hospital
was already full, the little country carts came in one after another filled with wounded. They
were to only stay one night, as in the morning ambulance trains were coming to take them all
away, and we had orders to follow as soon as the last patient had gone. Another operating-
and dressing-room was quickly improvised, but even with the two going hard all night it was
difficult to keep pace with the number brought in.

The scenery had never been taken down after the last dramatic performance played in the theatre,
and wounded men lay everywhere between the wings and drop scenes. The auditorium was packed
so closely that you could hardly get between the men without treading on some one's hands and
feet as they lay on the floor. The light had given out--in the two dressing-rooms there were
oil-lamps, but in the rest of the place we had to make do with candle-ends stuck into bottles.
The foyer had been made into a splendid kitchen, where hot tea and boiling soup could be got
all night through. This department was worked by the local Red Cross Society, and was a great
credit to them.

About eight o'clock in the morning the first ambulance train came in, and was quickly filled
with patients. We heard that the Germans were now very near, and hoped we should manage to
get away all the wounded before they arrived.

The second train came up about eleven, and by that time a fierce rifle encounter was going
on. From the hospital window we could see the Russian troops firing from the trenches near
the railway. Soon there was a violent explosion that shook the place; this was the Russians
blowing up the railway bridge on the western side of the station.

The second train went off, and there were very few patients left now, though some were still
being brought in at intervals by the Red Cross carts. Our automobiles had started off to Warsaw
with some wounded officers, but the rest of the column had orders to go to Zyradow by the last
train to leave Skiernevice.

The sanitars now began to pack up the hospital; we did not mean to leave anything behind for
the enemy if we could help it. The few bedsteads were taken to pieces and tied up, the stretchers
put together and the blankets tied up in bundles. When the last ambulance train came up about
2 P. M. the patients were first put in, and then every portable object that could be removed
was packed into the train too. At the last moment, when the train was just about to start,
one of the sanitars ran back and triumphantly brought out a pile of dirty soup plates to add
to the collection. Nothing was left in the hospital but two dead men we had not time to bury.

The wounded were all going to Warsaw and the other Russian Sisters went on in the train with
them. But our destination was Zyradow, only the next station but one down the line.

When we arrived at Zyradow about three o'clock we were looking forward to a bath and tea and
bed, as we had been up all night and were very tired; but the train most unkindly dropped us
about a quarter of a mile from the station, and we had to get out all our equipment and heavy
cases of dressings, and put them at the side of the line, while Julian, the Prince's soldier
servant, went off to try and find a man and a cart for the things. There was a steady downpour
of rain, and we were soaked by the time he came back saying that there was nothing to be had
at all. The station was all in crumbling ruins, so we could not leave the things there, and
our precious dressings were beginning to get wet. Finally we got permission to put them in
a closed cinema theatre near the station, but it was dark by that time, and we were wet and
cold and began once more to centre our thoughts on baths and tea. We were a small party--only
six of us--Princess, we two Sisters, Colonel S., a Russian dresser, and Julian. We caught a
local Red Crosser. "Where is the hotel?" "There is no hotel here." "Where can we lodge for
to-night?" "I don't know where you could lodge." "Where is the Red Cross Bureau?" asked Princess,
in desperation. "About a quarter of an hour's walk. I will show you the way."

We got to the Red Cross Bureau to find that Monsieur Goochkoff had not yet arrived, though
he was expected, and they could offer no solution of our difficulties, except to advise us
to go to the Factory Hospital and see if they could make any arrangement for us. The Matron
there was very kind, and telephoned to every one she could think of, and finally got a message
that we were expected, and were to sleep at the Reserve. So we trudged once more through the
mud and rain. The "Reserve" was two small, empty rooms, where thirty Sisters were going to
pass the night. They had no beds, and not even straw, but were just going to lie on the floor
in their clothes. There was obviously no room for six more of us, and finally we went back
once more to the Red Cross Bureau. Princess seized an empty room, and announced that we were
going to sleep in it. We were told we couldn't, as it had been reserved for somebody else;
but we didn't care, and got some patients' stretchers from the depot and lay down on them in
our wet clothes just as we were. In the middle of the night the "somebody" for whom the room
had been kept arrived, strode into the room, and turned up the electric light. The others were
really asleep, and I pretended to be. He had a good look at us, and then strode out again grunting.
We woke up every five minutes, it was so dreadfully cold, and though we were so tired, I was
not sorry when it was time to get up.

We had breakfast at a dirty little restaurant in the town, and then got a message from the
Red Cross that there would be nothing for us to do that day, but that we were probably going
to be sent to Radzowill the following morning. So we decided to go off to the Factory Hospital
and see if we could persuade the Matron to let us have a bath there.

Zyradow is one very large cotton and woollen factory, employing about 5000 hands. In Russia
it is the good law that for every hundred workmen employed there shall be one hospital bed
provided. In the small factories a few beds in the local hospital are generally subsidized,
in larger ones they usually find it more convenient to have their own. So here there was a
very nice little hospital with fifty beds, which had been stretched now to hold twice as many
more, as a great many wounded had to be sent in here. The Matron is a Pole of Scottish extraction,
and spoke fluent but quite foreign English with a strong Scotch accent. There are a good many
Scotch families here, who came over and settled in Poland about a hundred years ago, and who
are all engaged in different departments in the factory. She was kindness itself, and gave
us tea first and then prepared a hot bath for us all in turn. We got rid of most of our tormentors
and were at peace once more.

As we left the hospital we met three footsore soldiers whose boots were absolutely worn right
through. They were coming up to the hospital to see if the Matron had any dead men's boots
that would fit them. It sounded rather gruesome--but she told us that that was quite a common
errand. The Russian military boots are excellent, but, of course, all boots wear out very quickly
under such trying circumstances of roads and weather. They are top boots, strong and waterproof,
and very often made by the men themselves. The uniform, too, is very practical and so strong
that the men have told me that carpets are made from the material. The colour is browner than
our own khaki--and quite different both from the German, which is much greyer, and the Austrian,
which is almost blue. I heard in Belgium that at the beginning of the war German soldiers were
constantly mistaken for our men.

X

BY THE TRENCHES AT RADZIVILOW

The next morning we went up to Radzivilow. It is the next station to Skiernevice, and there
was very heavy fighting going on there when we went up. We were told we were going up on an
armoured train, which sounded very thrilling, but when we got to the station we only found
a quite ordinary carriage put on to the engine to take us up. The Russian battery was at that
time at the south of the railway line, the German battery on the north of it--and we were in
the centre of the sandwich. At Zyradow these cannon sounded distant, but as we neared Radzivilow
the guns were crashing away as they did at Lodz, and we prepared for a hot time. The station
had been entirely wrecked and was simply in ruins, but the station-master's house near by was
still intact, and we had orders to rig up a temporary dressing-station there.

Before we had time to unpack our dressings, a messenger arrived to tell us that the Germans
had succeeded in enfilading a Russian trench close by, and that they were bringing fifty very
badly wounded men to us almost at once. We had just time to start the sterilizer when the little
carts began to arrive with some terribly wounded men. The machine guns had simply swept the
trench from end to end. The worst of it was that some lived for hours when death would have
been a more merciful release. Thank God we had plenty of morphia with us and could thus ease
their terrible sufferings. One man had practically his whole face blown off, another had all
his clothes and the flesh of his back all torn away. Another poor old fellow was brought in
with nine wounds in the abdomen. He looked quite a patriarch with a long flowing beard--quite
the oldest man I have seen in the Russian army. Poor Ivan, he had only just been called up
to the front and this was his first battle. He was beautifully dressed, and so clean; his wife
had prepared everything for him with such loving care, a warm knitted vest, and a white linen
shirt most beautifully embroidered with scarlet in a intricate key-pattern. Ivan was almost
more unhappy at his wife's beautiful work having to be cut than at his own terrible wounds.
He was quite conscious and not in much pain, and did so long to live even a week or two longer,
so that he might see his wife once again. But it was not to be, and he died early the next
morning--one of the dearest old men one could ever meet, and so pathetically grateful for the
very little we could do for him.

The shells were crashing over our heads and bursting everywhere, but we were too busy to heed
them, as more and more men were brought to the dressing-station. It was an awful problem what
to do with them: the house was small and we were using the two biggest rooms downstairs as
operating- and dressing-rooms. Straw was procured and laid on the floors of all the little
rooms upstairs, and after each man's wounds were dressed he was carried with difficulty up
the narrow winding staircase and laid on the floor.

The day wore on and as it got dark we began to do the work under great difficulties, for there
were no shutters or blinds to the upstairs windows, and we dared not have any light--even a
candle--there, as it would have brought down the German fire on us at once. So those poor men
had to lie up there in the pitch dark, and one of us went round from time to time with a little
electric torch. Downstairs we managed to darken the windows, but the dressings and operations
had all to be done by candle-light.

The Germans were constantly sending up rockets of blue fire which illuminated the whole place,
and we were afraid every moment they would find us out. Some of the shells had set houses near
by on fire too, and the sky was lighted up with a dull red glow. The carts bringing the men
showed no lights, and they were lifted out in the dark when they arrived and laid in rows in
the lobby till we had time to see to them. By nine o'clock that evening we had more than 300
men, and were thankful to see an ambulance train coming up the line to take them away. The
sanitars had a difficult job getting these poor men downstairs and carrying them to the train,
which was quite dark too. But the men were thankful themselves to get away, I think--it was
nerve-racking work for them, lying wounded in that little house with the shells bursting continually
over it.

All night long the men were being brought in from the trenches. About four in the morning there
was a little lull and some one made tea. I wonder what people in England would have thought
if they had seen us at that meal. We had it in the stuffy dressing-room where we had been working
without a stop for sixteen hours with tightly closed windows, and every smell that can be imagined
pervading it, the floor covered with mud, blood and débris of dressings wherever there were
not stretchers on which were men who had just been operated on. The meal of milkless tea, black
bread, and cheese, was spread on a sterilized towel on the operating-table, illuminated by
two candles stuck in bottles. Princess sat in the only chair, and the rest of us eased our
weary feet by sitting on the edge of the dressing-boxes. Two dead soldiers lay at our feet--it
was not safe just at that moment to take them out and bury them. People would probably ask
how we could eat under those conditions. I don't know how we could either, but we did and were
thankful for it--for immediately after another rush began.

At eleven o'clock in the morning another ambulance train arrived and was quickly filled. By
that time we had had more than 750 patients through our hands, and they were still being brought
in large numbers. The fighting must have been terrific, for the men were absolutely worn out
when they arrived, and fell asleep at once from exhaustion, in spite of their wounds. Some
of them must have been a long time in the trenches, for many were in a terribly verminous condition.
On one poor boy with a smashed leg the insects could have only been counted by the million.
About ten minutes after his dressing was done, his white bandage was quite grey with the army
of invaders that had collected on it from his other garments.

Early that afternoon we got a message that another Column was coming to relieve us, and that
we were to return to Zyradow for a rest. We were very sorry to leave our little dressing-station,
but rejoiced to hear that we were to go up again in two days' time to relieve this second Column,
and that we were to work alternately with them, forty-eight hours on, and then forty-eight
hours off duty.

We had left Zyradow rather quiet, but when we came back we found the cannon going hard, both
from the Radzivilow and the Goosof direction. It would have taken much more than cannon to
keep us awake, however, and we lay down most gratefully on our stretchers in the empty room
at the Red Cross Bureau and slept. A forty-eight hours' spell is rather long for the staff,
though probably there would have been great difficulty in changing the Columns more often.

I woke up in the evening to hear the church bells ringing, and remembered that it was Christmas
Eve and that they were ringing for the Midnight Mass, so I got up quickly. The large church
was packed with people, every one of the little side chapels was full and people were even
sitting on the altar steps. There must have been three or four thousand people there, most
of them of course the people of the place, but also soldiers, Red Cross workers and many refugees
mostly from Lowice. Poor people, it was a sad Christmas for them--having lost so much already
and not knowing from day to day if they would lose all, as at that time it was a question whether
or not the Russian authorities would decide for strategic reasons to fall back once more.

And then twelve o'clock struck and the Mass began.

Soon a young priest got up into the pulpit and gave them a little sermon. It was in Polish,
but though I could not understand the words, I could tell from the people's faces what it was
about. When he spoke of the horrors of war, the losses and the deaths and the suffering that
had come to so many of them, one woman put her apron to her face and sobbed aloud in the tense
silence. And in a moment the whole congregation began sobbing and moaning and swaying themselves
to and fro. The young priest stopped and left them alone a moment or two, and then began to
speak in a low persuasive voice. I do not know what he said, but he gradually soothed them
and made them happy. And then the organ began pealing out triumphantly, and while the guns
crashed and thundered outside, the choir within sang of peace and goodwill to all men.

Christmas Day was a very mournful one for us, as we heard of the loss of our new and best automobile,
which had just been given as a present to the Column. One of the boys was taking it to Warsaw
from Skiernevice with some wounded officers, and it had broken down just outside the village.
The mud was awful, and with the very greatest difficulty they managed to get it towed as far
as Rawa, but had to finally abandon it to the Germans, though fortunately they got off safely
themselves. It was a great blow to the Column, as it was impossible to replace it, these big
ambulance cars costing something like 8000 roubles.

So our Christmas dinner eaten at our usual dirty little restaurant could not be called a success.

Food was very scarce at that time in Zyradow; there was hardly any meat or sugar, and no milk
or eggs or white bread. One of us had brought a cake for Christmas from Warsaw weeks before,
and it was partaken of on this melancholy occasion without enthusiasm. Even the punch made
out of a teaspoonful of brandy from the bottom of Princess's flask mixed with about a pint
of water and two lumps of sugar failed to move us to any hilarity. Our menu did not vary in
any particular from that usually provided at the restaurant, though we did feel we might have
had a clean cloth for once.

MENU

CHRISTMAS 1914

Gravy Soup.

Roast Horse. Boiled Potatoes.

Currant Cake.

Tea. Punch.

We were very glad to go up to Radzivilow once more. Our former dressing-station had been abandoned
as too dangerous for staff and patients, and the dressing- and operating-room was now in a
train about five versts down the line from Radzivilow station. Our train was a permanency on
the line, and we lived and worked in it, while twice a day an ambulance train came up, our
wounded were transferred to it and taken away, and we filled up once more. We found things
fairly quiet this time when we went up. The Germans had been making some very fierce attacks,
trying to cross the river Rawka, and therefore their losses must have been very heavy, but
the Russians were merely holding their ground, and so there were comparatively few wounded
on our side. This time we were able to divide up into shifts for the work--a luxury we were
very seldom able to indulge in.

We had previously made great friends with a Siberian captain, and we found to our delight that
he was living in a little hut close to our train. He asked me one day if I would like to go
up to the positions with him and take some Christmas presents round to the men. Of course I
was more than delighted, and as he was going up that night and I was not on duty, the general
very kindly gave permission for me to go up too. In the end Colonel S. and one of the Russian
Sisters accompanied us as well. The captain got a rough cart and horse to take us part of the
way, and he and another man rode on horseback beside us. We started off about ten o'clock,
a very bright moonlight night--so bright that we had to take off our brassards and anything
that could have shown up white against the dark background of the woods. We drove as far as
the pine-woods in which the Russian positions were, and left the cart and horses in charge
of a Cossack while we were away. The general had intended that we should see the reserve trenches,
but we had seen plenty of them before, and our captain meant that we should see all the fun
that was going, so he took us right up to the front positions. We went through the wood silently
in single file, taking care that if possible not even a twig should crackle under our feet,
till we came to the very front trenches at the edge of the wood. We crouched down and watched
for some time. Everything was brilliantly illuminated by the moonlight, and we had to be very
careful not to show ourselves. A very fierce German attack was going on, and the bullets were
pattering like hail on the trees all round us. We could see nothing for some time but the smoke
of the rifles.

The Germans were only about a hundred yards away from us at this time, and we could see the
river Rawka glittering below in the moonlight. What an absurd little river to have so much
fighting about. That night it looked as if we could easily wade across it. The captain made
a sign, and we crept with him along the edge of the wood, till we got to a Siberian officer's
dug-out. At first we could not see anything, then we saw a hole between two bushes, and after
slithering backwards down the hole, we got into a sort of cave that had been roofed in with
poles and branches, and was absolutely invisible a few steps away. It was fearfully hot and
frowzy--a little stove in the corner threw out a great heat, and the men all began to smoke,
which made it worse.

We stayed a while talking, and then crawled along to visit one of the men's dug-outs, a German
bullet just missing us as we passed, and burying itself in a tree. There were six men already
in the dug-out, so we did not attempt to get in, but gave them tobacco and matches, for which
they were very grateful. These men had an "ikon" or sacred picture hanging up inside their
cave; the Russian soldiers on active service carry a regimental ikon, and many carry them in
their pockets too. One man had his life saved by his ikon. He showed it to us; the bullet had
gone just between the Mother and the Child, and was embedded in the wood.

It was all intensely interesting, and we left the positions with great reluctance, to return
through the moonlit pine-woods till we reached our cart. We had indeed made a night of it,
for it was five o'clock in the morning when we got back to the train once more, and both the
doctor and I were on duty again at eight. But it was well worth losing a night's sleep to go
up to the positions during a violent German attack. I wonder what the general would have said
if he had known!

We finished our forty-eight hours' duty and returned once more to Zyradow. I was always loth
to leave Radzivilow. The work there was splendid, and there more than anywhere else I have
been to one feels the war as a High Adventure.

War would be the most glorious game in the world if it were not for the killing and wounding.
In it one tastes the joy of comradeship to the full, the taking and giving, and helping and
being helped in a way that would be impossible to conceive in the ordinary world. At Radzivilow,
too, one could see the poetry of war, the zest of the frosty mornings, and the delight of the
camp-fire at night, the warm, clean smell of the horses tethered everywhere, the keen hunger,
the rough food sweetened by the sauce of danger, the riding out in high hope in the morning;
even the returning wounded in the evening did not seem altogether such a bad thing out there.
One has to die some time, and the Russian peasants esteem it a high honour to die for their
"little Mother" as they call their country. The vision of the High Adventure is not often vouchsafed
to one, but it is a good thing to have had it--it carries one through many a night at the shambles.
Radzivilow is the only place it came to me. In Belgium one's heart was wrung by the poignancy
of it all, its littleness and defencelessness; in Lodz one could see nothing for the squalor
and "frightfulness"; in other places the ruined villages, the flight of the dazed, terrified
peasants show one of the darkest sides of war.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was New Year's Eve when we returned to Zyradow, and found ourselves billeted in a new house
where there was not only a bed each, but a bathroom and a bath. Imagine what that meant to
people who had not undressed at night for more than three weeks.

Midnight struck as we were having supper, and we drank the health of the New Year in many glasses
of tea. What would the lifted veil of time disclose in this momentous year just opening for us?

It did not begin particularly auspiciously for me, for within the first few days of it I got
a wound in the leg from a bit of shrapnel, was nearly killed by a bomb from a German Taube,
and caught a very bad chill and had to go to bed with pleurisy--all of which happenings gave
me leisure to write this little account of my adventures.

The bomb from the Taube was certainly the nearest escape I am ever likely to have in this world.
I was walking over a piece of open ground, saw nothing, heard nothing, was dreaming in fact,
when suddenly I heard a whirring overhead, and just above me was a German aeroplane. Before
I had time to think, down came a bomb with a fearful explosion. I could not see anything for
a minute, and then the smoke cleared away, and I was standing at the edge of a large hole.
The bomb had fallen into a bed of soft mud, and exploded upwards. Some soldiers who were not
very far off rushed to see if I were killed, and were very surprised to find that I was practically
unhurt. A bomb thrown that same afternoon that exploded on the pavement killed and wounded
nine people.

The wound was from a stray bit of shrapnel and was only a trifle, fortunately, and soon healed.
The pleurisy was a longer job and compelled me to go to bed for a fortnight. I was very miserable
at being the only idle person I knew, till it occurred to me to spend my time in writing this
little book, and a subsequent short holiday in Petrograd enabled me to finish it.

My enforced holiday is over now and I am on my way back to my beloved column once more--to
the life on the open road--with its joys and sorrows, its comradeship, its pain and its inexplicable
happiness--back once more to exchange the pen for the more ready weapon of the forceps.

And so I will leave this brief account of what I have seen in this great war. I know better
than anyone can tell me what an imperfect sketch it is, but the history of the war will have
to be studied from a great many different angles before a picture of it will be able to be
presented in its true perspective, and it may be that this particular angle will be of some
little interest to those who are interested in Red Cross work in different countries. Those
who are workers themselves will forgive the roughness of the sketch, which was written during
my illness in snatches and at odd times, on all sorts of stray pieces of paper and far from
any books of reference; they will perhaps forget the imperfections in remembering that it has
been written close to the turmoil of the battlefield, to the continual music of the cannon
and the steady tramp of feet marching past my window.

Index

Aeroplanes, Taube, 145, 176
  throwing down proclamations, 53

Affiches, of the Burgomaster of Antwerp, 53
  of the Burgomaster of Brussels, 10, 11, 181, 182
  forbidding a menacing look, etc., 32
  German, proclaiming victories, 30, 67
  German, of Von der Golst, 67, 68
  instructions to citizens, 67

American Consul, help from, 66, 77

Antwerp, the forts of, 73
  the heavy guns, 73
  news of the downfall of, 96

Austrian prisoners, 148

Automobiles of the Flying Column, 146, 169

Belgian Red Cross Society, 5, 12

Bishop, sad fate of the, 103

Boden, a night at, 103, 104

Brassard, the Red Cross, 61

Brussels, fortifications of, 9
  German patients in fire-station hospital at, 20
  hospitals in, 13
  occupied by the Germans, 14
  the start to, 6, 7

Burgomaster of Antwerp, 53
  of Brussels, 10, 11, 54, 74
  of Charleroi, 20

Camp, a German, 61, 62

Cannon, distinction between French and German, 40

Cholera, rumours of, 97

Charleroi, burning of, 20, 22, 32
  and Charleville, 36
  terrorization of peasants in, 33

Christmas Eve in Zyradow, 167
  fare, 170

Cologne, arrival at, 85-87

Copenhagen, arrival at, 92

Danish-German soldiers as guards, 81

Danish welcome, a, 92

Death of a Breton soldier, 44
  of a certain French count, 48, 49

Difference in French and German equipment, 47

Echevins of Brussels, 74

Empress Marie Federovna, interview with, 111

Equipment of French and German soldiers, 47

Expulsion of nurses and doctors from Brussels, 80

Firing at the Red Cross, 35

Fire-station hospital, 13, 19, 20

Flandres Libérale, 71

Flying Column, 125, 126

Fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul, 107

French convent, a, 60
  prisoners as patients, 28, 29

German officers' behaviour at Herbesthal, 83
  patients at fire-station, 20
  patients at M----, 41
  preparations for war, 33
  surgeon at M----, 31

Grand Duchess Cyril's Hospital in Warsaw, 144

Hamburg, 88, 89

Hansen, Dr. Norman, 95

Harsh treatment of wounded, 42

Haparanda, 104

Herbesthal, search at, 83

Holland, rumoured war with, 31

"Hoosh," 85

Hotel Cosmopolite, Copenhagen, 92

Hotel d'Europe, Warsaw, 124

Hotel at Lodz, 140

Ikons, 115, 173

Improvised hospital from theatre, 152

Infiladed trench, a, 162

Insects, 139

Inscription over gateway in Charleroi, 30

Interview with Dowager Empress of Russia, 111

St. John Ambulance Society, 5, 97

Jumet, the burning of, 21

Karungi, 104

Kiel Canal, 90

Liège, 65, 83

Lodz, 131
  hospital at, 132-38
  shelling of, 132, 135

London, first week of the war, 2

Louvain, destruction of, 81
  refugees from, 11

Lowice, 150

Luggage problem, the, 126

Mâlines, 60, 63, 81

M---- Red Cross Hospital, 23
  Committee, 28
  dinner-time, 27
  a night on duty, 23-24
  the curé of, 44

Max, Monsieur, 10, 11, 55, 74

Maubeuge taken, 41

Münster, breakfast at, 88

Neutrality of Belgium, 82
  of Denmark, 100

Newspaper boy caught by Germans, 71, 72

Night in the trenches, a, 171-74

Nurses in Brussels, 8, 19, 66

Operation, a severe, 25, 26

Ostend in August, 7

Patients sent off to Germany, 41, 46

Petrograd, 107, 108

Pigeons, loss of, 55

Poem to British surgeons and nurses, 95

Poland, distress in, 97

Prisoners, Austrian, 148
  French, 28
  German, 148

Proclamation of Burgomaster of Brussels, 10, 11
  forbidding "a menacing look," 32
  German announcing victories, 30, 67
  of Von der Golst, 67, 68

Queen of Holland, 31

Radzivilow, 161
  Castle, 151

Raphael, St., 104

Rawka, the river, 172

Refugees from Termonde and Louvain, 11
  in Poland, 142

Registration of trained nurses, 4

Red Cross flag in Brussels, 55
  hospital in Warsaw, 113-21
  workers in Belgium, 23, 28, 46

Russian factory laws, 158

Russian Red Cross, Committee, 108
  permission to serve, 97

Russian roads, 146

Russian sisterhoods, 109

Russian soldiers, 123
  their relationship with their officers, 123

Scarcity of supplies, 24, 37, 169

Searched by German sentries, 62

Siberian ponies, 128

Skiernevice, 146

Skirmish between Belgian and German outposts, 59

Spies, 148

Stamps, issue of Belgian, 74

State registration of nurses, 4

St. Raphael, 104, 106

Stockholm, 102

Taube aeroplane, 147, 176

Termonde, refugees from, 11

Theatre at Skiernevice, 152

Times, the price of, 70

Tirlemont, 57, 82

Torchlight tattoo, 1

Turco soldiers, 29

Turkestan soldiers, 151, 152

Untrained nurses, the danger, 5, 120

Vendrup, 91

Voluntary Aid Detachments, 5

Waelheim, forts of, 73

Water-supply difficulties, 39

Warsaw, the city of, 121
  the Red Cross Hospital, 113-20

Wavre St. Catherine, forts of, 73

Wounded French prisoners sent to Germany, 46
  German soldiers at M----, 41

Zeppelins, 81

Zouave patients, 45

Zyradow Hospital, 158

Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO. LTD. At the Ballantyne Press LONDON AND EDINBURGH

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's note: Spelling and punctuation have been normalized.