THE LOST VALLEY

                            By J. M. WALSH

                                 1921

The C. J. DeGARIS PUBLISHING HOUSE MELBOURNE

CONTENTS

PART I.

THE POSTHUMOUS PUZZLE OF MR. BRYCE

I.--The Adventure on the Sands

II.--An Old Friend

III.--The Strange Behaviour of Mr. Bryce

IV.--The Thief in the Night

V.--Circumstantial Evidence

VI.--I Tell a Lie

VII.--Introducing Mr. Albert Cumshaw

PART II.

THE ADVENTURES OF MR. ABEL CUMSHAW

I.--Nightfall

II.--The Pursuit

III.--The Hidden Valley

IV.--When Thieves Fall Out

V.--Expiation

VI.--The Hegira of Mr. Abel Cumshaw

VII.--The Gathering of the Eagles

PART III.

THE FINDING OF THE LOST VALLEY

I.--The Cypher

II.--Over the Hills and Far Away

III.--The Promised Land

IV.--We Enter the Valley

V.--Dies Irae

VI.--The Solution

VII.--The Adventure Closes

PART I.

THE POSTHUMOUS PUZZLE OF MR. BRYCE.

CHAPTER I.

THE ADVENTURE ON THE SANDS.

I came upon the place quite unexpectedly. Centuries of wind and wave had carved a little nook
out of the foot of the cliff and fashioned it so cunningly that I did not see it until I was
right on top of it. After the warmth of the open beach and the glare of the white road I had
recently travelled its shade looked so inviting that I limped in under the overhang of the
cliff and dropped joyfully on to the cool patch of sand. It was the first moment of contentment
I had known for many weary months, and, needless to say, I set myself out to make the most
of it. I was absolutely sick of tramping about. My left boot had burst and, by the feel of
it, there wasn't too much left of my right sole. I had been crawling along the road since daylight--and
for many days before for that matter--searching for a job that failed to materialise.

Jobs, it appeared, were just about as scarce as cool spots in Hades. They had been very kind
to me at the last farmhouse. The good lady had given me an excellent breakfast and an extra
glass of milk, had loaded my bedraggled pockets with food and had finally put me on the road
to the sea. Work, she said, they could not give me. They had put off two men the previous day.
I might find something to do in the next town. She did tell me what it was called, but my thoughts
were on my own poor prospects and I didn't quite catch what she said. On the principle that
a rose by any other name would still have its thorns, I didn't ask her to repeat it. I just
said, "Thank you, ma'am," in my best tramp manner and set off down the road to the sea. On
the way my left boot burst and a pebble worked in through the opening and set me limping. To
make matters worse the day was perhaps the hottest of all that memorable summer, and the glare
from the white grit of the road played the devil with my eyes. I was very pleased when at length
I reached the low sand dunes and dropped between them on to the wet sand of the beach. I walked
along this aimlessly for a mile or so until the big hump of the bluff rose up over me. Then,
as I have already related, I came across that heaven-sent cave and threw my weary length on
its damp flooring of sand, determined to snatch as much peace and repose as I could before
I continued my search for work.

I can't say for the life of me how long it was before I first sat up and took notice of the
fat little man. He was bobbing up and down in the surf for all the world like some ungainly
porpoise, and every time he moved he shot sunlit streams of water off his gross body. I've
seen fat men in my time, but this one was just about the limit. He was all up and down and
then across. I know that doesn't quite explain what he looked like, but it's about the only
way I can describe him. He was short and tubby; if he had been any shorter he would have been
a human Humpty-Dumpty. He was so obviously enjoying himself and getting the best out of his
gambols in the water that my heart went out to him. He was ducking and splashing about, rolling
and wallowing in a way that reminded me of a hippopotamus I had once shot at--and missed--in
happier if not more spacious days spent on the lower Nile. "The Hippo" I christened him, and
then chuckled to myself at the singular appropriateness of the name.

Even his bathing dress seemed designed expressly to add to his rotundity. It was one of those
queer garments bearing a faint resemblance to a convict's uniform, and the wide stripes of
it went round and round his figure like hoops on a barrel. It was so funny that I chuckled
again and forgot all about my burning feet and my burst boot.

Presently he stopped his antics and looked over my way. He gave one glance at me, and then
started to run inshore with short, jumpy little steps. Something seemed to have struck him
all of a sudden, and I was just beginning to wonder what the deuce it could be when, out of
the corner of my eyes, I caught sight of a pile of neatly folded clothes thrust into the cleft
of the rock a little above my head. I began to understand then. I looked more disreputable
than I really was; my suit was in the last stages of ruinous decay, while his brand-new clothes
just above me would have been a gift from the gods to a man with less conscience and more figure
than I possessed. He evidently presumed on the strength of my proximity that I had evil designs
on his clothes, but he needn't have troubled himself. If I could judge anything from his own
figure I would have been completely lost in them. I didn't like to confirm his suspicions by
running away now that I found I was observed, so I just sat there and waited for him. There
was a piece of something that looked very like driftwood protruding from the sand close to
me, and I kicked idly at it as he came pounding up the beach. It was set loosely in the sand,
and a more accurate kick than usual knocked it out of its resting-place. Something queer about
it caught my eye, and I bent over to pick it up.

"Whatever else it is, it isn't driftwood," I said to myself. "I'll bet----," and then I stopped
short, for I remembered that my sole worldly wealth at the moment consisted of exactly three
pennies. All the same I was right about it. Driftwood doesn't get the dry rot, nor does it
come ashore covered with rich black loam.

"Somebody's planted it here," was my next thought, and my mind strayed to the panting bulk
of a man who was thundering down on top of me.

"It's his, I suppose," I said, and looked up at him. At that precise instant he tripped and
fell full length on the sand. I've seen a good many lucky escapes in my day--a man who has
travelled the out-of-the-way places of the world from the Yukon and the White Nile down to
the headwaters of the Fly River in the snow-mountains of Dutch New Guinea does see a bit of
life--but the way that fat chap upset himself into the sand was the most wonderful piece of
good fortune I ever came across. He must have missed death by a fraction of an inch. I saw
him fall, heard the shot ring out and watched the sand spurt up all in the one crowded second.
The next moment I was running towards him, my hand moving instinctively to my empty pistol-pocket.
But my mind readjusted itself in a flash, and I recollected that I wasn't dodging cannibals
in the upper reaches of the Mambare, but was living in a civilised country where a man who
carries a revolver, and gets caught at it, is fined more money than I'd seen in the last twelve
months.

The other chap seemed to divine instinctively that I was a friend, for he yelled at me even
while he was hauling himself up from the sand.

"There's one in my pocket," he shouted and gesticulated back towards his clothes.

I didn't waste a moment, but sped over the intervening yards like a man possessed. As luck
would have it his coat was the first thing I grabbed, and the weight of it told me at once
in which pocket to look. I plunged my hand in and drew out the sweetest little automatic it
has ever been my lot to handle. As a rule I prefer a Colt--in my experience it never jams--but
I rather fancied my present weapon would do all that was required, so I slipped back the safety
catch with my thumb and whirled round on my heel to face whatever was coming.

The overture was already over and the invisible marksman had settled down to steady firing.
The fat man was now almost on top of me, and I saw instantly that that brought me right into
the line of fire. It takes a long time in the telling, but, as I figured it out afterwards,
from the instant the first shot missed the old chap down to the moment I pulled the trigger,
more than half a minute could not have elapsed.

There was only one place in sight where a man could take cover, and that was a bunch of rocks
just a little to the left of my position. I let off a fancy shot in that direction, and a second
later the reply rang out. The cliff overhead shed a shower of dust on top of the pair of us,
and the fat man crouched into the corner. I knew now where my man was, so I waited until he
exposed himself, as I saw he must do when he fired again.

"Gimme the gun!" the fat man demanded in the interval.

"Shut up!" I said, without turning my head. "I'm a better shot than you, I reckon, and, anyway,
it's just as much my funeral now as yours. He's had a shot at me, and that's a thing I don't
forgive in a hurry."

"Well, of all the----," I heard him say, and then the rest of his remark was drowned in the
report of my weapon. I had spotted a white wrist back of a gleam of polished metal and, taking
a sporting chance, I let drive. The other man's gun dropped to the sand, and a yell told me
that I had made no mistake.

"Here's where I come in," I said, and, forgetting the condition of my feet, I sprinted towards
the rocks. But the other fellow had decided that the place was getting too hot for him, and
he made off along the sand as fast as his legs could carry him. He must have been in excellent
trim, for he shot along the heavy track as if he was running on the cinder-path, and I saw
before I had gone fifty yards that I hadn't a chance in the world of catching him. Also there
were half a dozen black specks of men a mile or so along the beach, and my reason told me that
homicide before witnesses wasn't likely to prove a healthy pastime. So I swallowed my pride
and, consoling myself with the thought that some day we might meet again, I wheeled about and
made back to the nook.

The fat chap had shed his bathing suit and was climbing into his clothes when I arrived. He
beamed at me and his whole face crinkled into smiles. I was so afraid that he was going to
make a silly speech that I pushed his automatic into his hands and said, "You'd better take
this, old man. The other party's in swift retreat and, from the condition of his wrist, I don't
fancy you'll receive another billet-doux for some time to come."

"Well, I'm hanged if you're not the coolest chap I've ever laid eyes on," the fat man said
admiringly.

"You were nearer being shot," I hinted, "and, if you don't mind me saying so, the sooner you
struggle into those clothes of yours and get home to mother, the safer you'll be. I don't object
to fighting for you once in a while, but I'll see you further before I make a habit of it."

"Um!" said the fat man, "I'm sorry. I'd hoped to persuade you to take it on permanently."

I thought at first that he was joking, but the way he looked at me showed that he was in deadly
earnest. For all his flippancy there was something back of his eyes, a trace of fear that kept
peeping out every now and then, that told me he went in danger of his life. I hated to have
to refuse him, but I had very good reasons, which I intended to keep to myself, too, for not
putting my life into danger too often. So I told him point-blank that if he wanted to hire
a bodyguard he'd have to go somewhere else. He wasn't as put out at my reply as I would have
expected. Instead he smiled up at me--for all his bulk I towered over him--and there was a
touch of gameness in that smile that I rather liked. I couldn't help telling him just what
I thought.

"I don't think you want anyone to look after you," I said. "You're as game as they make 'em.
I'm pretty used to reading men--I've been in places where my life depended on my ability in
that direction--and when I see a fellow smile like you're smiling now, you can take it from
me that he's grit all through."

"They'll get me yet," he said with a sigh. "I'm handicapped, you see. I couldn't have sprinted
along the beach the way you did. I'd have wheezed. Bellows gone and all that, you know. Too
much fat, the doctor says."

"Now, you're just about right there. I don't like to be personal, but now you mention it, you
don't seem to have the cut of an athlete."

"And you have," he said, as he insinuated himself into his collar. It was a trifle too small
for his neck, and he had to coax it a lot before he got both ends to meet. "You're the type
of man I take to instantly, Mr. ----."

He asked me a question with his eyes.

"Well," I said in answer, "if it's any use to you my name's Carstairs, Jimmy Carstairs at that,
and I'm an explorer by inclination, gentleman by instinct, and the rolling-stone-that-gathers-no-moss
by sheer force of unlovely circumstance. Now you know all that I intend to tell you about myself."

"Um!" he said again. "I had better introduce myself, I suppose. I fancy my card-case's in my
coat pocket."

"Don't trouble about a card," I said airily. "I'm not at all fussy. I'm quite willing to take
your word for it."

There was a twinkle in his eye, as he replied, that showed he rather appreciated my cheap wit.
"Bryce is my name," he said. "You may have heard of it?"

"Can't say I have," I told him, "though I'm pretty certain to see it often if you make a practice
of keeping up this guerilla warfare."

It wasn't a nice thing to say, but then I'm never very particular, and if my listeners don't
like my remarks they're always welcome to change the subject. When all's said and done there
was more in that last jab of mine than met the ear. I wanted very much to know why that sharpshooter
should be so extremely anxious to put him out of action. Also he had said "they." There had
only been one man behind the rocks, and I could have sworn on a stack of Bibles that there
wasn't another human being--with the sole exception of the men a mile or so along the beach--within
coo-ee at the time. "You've been there before, my friend," I thought. "This isn't the first
time you've flushed a chap with a bit of hardware." From what I could see Bryce hadn't the
slightest intention of making me as wise as himself and even the broad hint I gave him didn't
seem to move him in the least. He surveyed me steadily for the scrag-end of a minute and then
his left eyelid flickered. I knew right enough what that wink meant. It said as plainly as
could be that dead men tell no tales and wise men follow their example.

"Now, Mr. Bryce," I said, "I like your company and it pains me to leave you, but I can't stop
here for ever. I've got an important engagement at the next town and the sooner I get there
the better. Under the circumstances you'll have to excuse me."

He didn't tell me that I was a liar but he went pretty close to it. "The next town's Geelong,"
he said, "and it's a good fourteen miles away. You might have sprinted along that sand in record
time when somebody's life was trembling in the balance, but that doesn't say you can walk fourteen
miles on a rotten road on a broiling hot day. And if I wished to be as personal as you are
I'd point out that a burst boot doesn't help make the way any easier."

"Bowled out first shot," I told him. "What's your little game?"

"To use your own inimitable phraseology, my little game amounts to this. I've taken a violent
fancy to you, Carstairs, and I want to keep you by me. I don't think your luck's been too good
lately, but between us I fancy we can mend it. If you want to go into Geelong all you've got
to do is wait and come with me. I'm going back shortly, and I'm sure you'd feel much better
riding in a motor than travelling on foot."

"Now you mention it," I said, "I can't see why I shouldn't. The only trouble is that some of
your excitable friends might see me in your company and include me in the sudden-death stakes."

"Quite likely," Bryce said, with a smile. "I wouldn't be at all surprised if they hid behind
a convenient hedge and potted us as we passed. But you needn't come if that's what you're afraid
of."

"I'll forgive you this time," I rattled on, "just because you've had such an exciting experience,
but don't ever hint anything like that again. I don't know what fear's like."

"Self-praise," said Bryce, "is sometimes the highest form of recommendation. At any rate it
shows you've overcome fear, if only the fear of criticism. But to be serious, Carstairs, there's
trouble ahead of both of us. My pursuers are getting very game, tackling me in front of a third
person, and I've got a funny sort of feeling that they'll catch me napping one of these days.
No matter what you say or do, you can't alter the fact that you've identified yourself with
me, and that means that you're running just the same amount of danger that I am. You don't
look too prosperous yourself. What about joining forces with me and sharing the plunder? Of
course I can make it worth your while."

"Plunder," I said. "What do you mean! Are you running up against the law?"

"If it's any relief to you to know it, I'm not. I rather fancy I've got the law on my side."

"I was merely enquiring what inducements you had to offer. What do you call 'making it worth
my while?'"

When I turned down his first tentative offer I had quite made up my mind that he wanted to
engage me as a sort of super-butler with sudden death included amongst the risks of service,
and I had no intention of mixing up in other people's quarrels on such terms. When I questioned
him directly about it I got a pleasant surprise.

"Well, my idea of making it worth your while is something like £100 for three months. That's
about as long as I'll require you. After that you can 'go to hell or to Connaught,' whichever
you prefer."

"That's nice hearing," I told him. "And, I suppose, any time I take an extra risk I get something
pour boire?"

He nodded cheerfully.

"That's my offer, Carstairs," he said. "What do you say to it?"

"It's so damned alluring," I answered, "that I'm frightened to look at it too close. I don't
mind admitting that I'm about as hard up as I can be. As a matter of fact I've not the least
idea where I'm going to get my next meal. All of which makes your offer doubly inviting. But
I don't want to jump at it in hot blood. I want time to think it over. I want to stand off
and wave my hat at it and say, 'Scat, you brute!' and see if it'll shoo off. I'm frightened
that it's not real, and that I'll take it on and then wake up. Will you give me time to wake up?"

"If you'll drive in with me the two of us can dine together," Bryce suggested. "That ought
to give you time to wake up."

"I can't ask anything fairer than that," I agreed. "When do we start?"

"No time like the present. I've got the car paddocked down near the reserve. It's only a matter
of walking around the bluff. Come on."

I went along with him without comment, though I noticed that the last thing he did was to bend
down and pick up the piece of wood which had so excited my curiosity earlier in the proceedings.
It was small enough to slip into his pocket, and this he did without a word either of apology
or explanation.

"It's a mighty innocent piece of wood," I thought, "but I'll bet all Australia to an albatross
that it's mixed up in the plot."

As we moved around the foot of the bluff I couldn't help turning the situation over in my mind.
Half an hour before I had been a wanderer on the face of the earth, a man with no special abilities
and no outstanding vices. In that short space of time I had saved one man's life, nearly taken
that of another, and seemed in a fair way to make money out of my twin attributes of steady
nerves and good shooting. I was still thinking in this strain when we rounded the bluff and
commenced to crawl across the intervening stretch of spinifex grass. I say "crawl" advisedly.
Bryce was far too heavy to do more than lumber along and my feet were steadily getting worse.
The spinifex grew knee-high and its roots extended in all directions. They were hard, knobby
things that protruded through the loose sand, and every time I took my attention off the ground
for an instant I stubbed my toe against one or the other of them. Bryce panted and puffed and
wheezed and seemed more like an hippopotamus than ever. Whatever might be the gain as far as
decency was concerned, his clothes, from a spectacular point of view, made him look worse than
ever. His collar was tight, and that made his face the color of a scraped carrot, and his coat
and trousers clung to him in the most unexpected places--just where they shouldn't.

To make a long story short, we came at last to the edge of the spinifex, and thence dropped
steadily down into the hollow that contained the reserve. I picked out Bryce's car right off.
It was painted a battleship grey, and if cars can have a personality, this had such another
as its owner. It wasn't slim--there was nothing of the racer about it. It was squatly built
and had just the same heavy and humorous look as Bryce himself. It stood out from the other
cars like a hunch-back amongst a line of athletes.

"That's my car," said Bryce proudly. "She's not much to look at, but she's just the sweetest
runner you've seen."

I nodded. I was quite open to conviction.

CHAPTER II.

AN OLD FRIEND.

Hitherto events had moved so swiftly that I hadn't had time to look calmly at the situation,
but once we settled down in the car and Barwon Heads dropped into the dust behind us, I began
to think rather seriously. It was perfectly obvious, even to a more clouded intelligence than
mine, that there was something mysterious, if not shady, about my prospective employer. Despite
his assurance that the law was on his side, I had grave doubts. If everything was perfectly
square and above board why the deuce didn't he report the affair to the police and give them
the task of looking after him, instead of hiring me at an exorbitant wage? He seemed anxious
to fight shy of publicity in any shape or form and, though he had been very cordial, even familiar
with me, his very apparent frankness and joviality had awakened my suspicions. There was something
fishy going on, and that something, whatever it was, centred round the piece of wood that I
had so casually kicked out of the sand. It struck me all of a heap that nothing had really
begun to happen until I had unearthed it. As soon as Bryce had seen where I was sitting, he
had started to run inshore, the other man had stationed himself behind the rocks, the curtain
had been rung up and the play had begun. Now the question was what part did the piece of wood
play in the game? Bryce, I felt sure, could clear the mystery up with a word, but I was certain
that it would be long before he would say that word.

The car was all and more than he had said. It had speed, it was comfortable, and its mechanism
was far less complicated than any I had yet seen. We ate up distance in fine style. Bryce seemed
to have no nerves at all, for more than once he tore round corners on two wheels while I clung
to the side of the car and swore at him. He grinned cheerfully over his shoulder at me and
asked me if I were nervous.

I laughed back at him with as much sang-froid as I could muster. I had no objection to risking
my life once in a while when there was good pay at the end of it, but I couldn't see the sense
of tempting Providence just for the sheer fun of the thing. Of course, if we did spill, it
would be all right with Bryce--he was so fat that he'd just bounce--but I was slimmer, and
I knew from experience that I had very brittle bones. Once in the Solomons, when a wild boar
charged me, I lay for weeks in a trader's hut waiting for an obdurate fracture to knit up again.
Some idea of the furious pace at which Bryce pushed the car along can be guessed from the fact
that we did the fourteen miles in something over twenty minutes. It had been quite half-past
eleven when we left the Heads, and the clock in the car wanted a few minutes to twelve when
we sailed over the bridge and up Moorabool-street. We cleared a stationary tram by inches,
twisted in an S curve to avoid a farmer's waggon and then, with a heart-rending grind, Bryce
threw over his clutch and slowed down to a snail-like crawl of ten miles an hour.

"This asphalt paving makes a great motor track," Bryce said to me, "but there's speed-laws
in existence here. That's the trouble of it. When a man has a nice track he's interfered with,
and when there isn't anyone to meddle with him it's ten to one that he's crawling over something
like a corduroy road."

"Corduroy!" I said, and sat up and looked at him. I knew what he meant. Any man who has ever
travelled the heart-breaking log-roads of the interior New Guinea goldfields does not need
to be told what 'corduroy' is. It is an ever-present memory, an astonishment and a nightmare.
Bryce did not speak from hearsay--the note in his voice told me that--but was talking from
experience garnered at great cost, both of money and energy.

"Corduroy," he repeated after me. "Doesn't that sound familiar to you, Carstairs?"

"It does," I said with emphasis. "But how the deuce----?" And then I stopped dead. Bryce? Bryce?
What was familiar about that name? Bryce and New Guinea and----. I had it. And Walter Carstairs.

"Ever heard of Walter Carstairs?" I questioned.

"The minute I heard your name I knew you," Bryce said. "Ever heard of Walter Carstairs? Why,
he was the best friend I ever had. He saved my life in the early days of the Woodlarks."

"According to the Dad," I said, looking him straight in the face, "it was the other way about."

He laughed happily. "Jimmy, I'm losing my memory if that's so. But whatever happened to him?
I lost sight of him the last ten years or so."

"You would," I answered. "He stuck to the Islands. He had a life's work planned out, but he
got cut-off in the Solomons before he had reached finality. I carried it on after that, came
all the way from the Klondyke to take it up. I got through but it took every penny I had, and
that's why this morning when I came across you I only had a boot and a half to my feet."

"Well, well," he said kindly, "that's all changed now."

"I don't know so much about it," I told him. "You might have been the best friend the Dad ever
had, but that doesn't say you're going to keep me. What I get I work for. I'll take charity
from no man living."

Again he laughed, and his fat face crinkled up into little rolls of flesh until he looked as
if he had double chins all the way up to his eyes. I knew now why he had been so familiar with
me earlier in the day. He was a sunny-natured old chap always, even in the hard, toilsome New
Guinea days, and I suppose his heart went out to me as the son of an old comrade in arms, doubly
so--perhaps because I had saved his life. On the whole I rather wished I hadn't. It complicated
matters so. It made me feel bound to give him a hand, whether his enterprise was shady or not.

If he had turned to me then and said, "I suppose I can count on you all right?" I would have
been torn between duty and inclination. He did nothing of the sort. He made no reference to
his offer of service, in fact he seemed to have completely forgotten it, and I thought it just
as well to say nothing. The way he forebore from seizing a perfectly obvious advantage sent
him up fifty per cent. in my estimation, and by the time we had reached the heart of the city
I was quite willing to do anything he asked me.

"I'll park the car," he said, "and then we'll go off and have some dinner."

"Will we?" I said and eyed my tattered raiment ruefully. "I don't fancy I'm dressed for dinner."

"Um!" he said. "You're not. I'd quite overlooked that. That bars a public dinner. I don't fancy
you'll be able to make much of one if you come down to my place. The cook's away. I didn't
expect to be back so soon."

"Cook or no cook," I told him, "if you've got anything eatable in the house I'll guarantee
to turn it up right. Give me the run of the kitchen and put me next to the meat-safe, and you'll
see wonders. I don't know how you feel, but I'm so hungry that I'd make a meal off a pair of
kid boots."

"In that case, Carstairs, I think I'd better take you home and see what sort of a culinary
expert you are."

With that he twisted the car about and headed out for the eastern suburbs. The place was unfamiliar
to me at the time--I hadn't the faintest idea of the street the man lived in--and in the face
of what happened later I made no enquiries. As a matter of fact the rush of events crowded
all such petty details out of my mind.

"Can you drive a car?" he asked abruptly.

"I can drive anything but an Andean mule," I told him. "I tried once in the Chilian foot-hills,
but after the animal dislocated my shoulder I sort of lost heart."

"I gather from the retiring modesty of your last remark," he smiled, "that you consider yourself
an expert as regards all other forms of animal and mechanical traction."

"Quite so. I can always do anything on principle, and I've yet to meet the job that I'm unwilling
to tackle!"

He glanced sideways at me. I didn't like the look he gave me. There was too much of appraisement
in it, something that was alien to the nature of the man, a sort of cold, calculating shrewdness
that made me wonder again if I had not been mistaken in my estimate of him and the extent of
his good-nature.

"If you keep on admiring me instead of looking where you're going," I hinted, "you'll end up
in a funeral. That motor-bus isn't the sort of thing I'd care to hit."

He twisted the wheel over a fraction and edged out beyond the motor-bus before he replied.
"Life is full of thrills," he remarked when at last we reached the comparative security of
open space. There was a challenge in his voice that I thought it well to ignore.

"It is," I agreed. "Too much so."

For all the lightness of his speech and the careless ease with which he took unnecessary and
avoidable risks I had a feeling that there was deep design under everything he did. Though
I couldn't have proved it if I'd been asked, I felt sure that he was trying my nerve. After
all there's no better test of that than the crowded traffic of a big city. I've met men who'd
cheerfully face a crowd of howling cannibals and yet would develop a very bad case of jumps
if asked to cross a street roaring and humming with traffic. Yes, clearly he was testing me.

