"No, what good would the little do that you could give me?" and he continued to adjust matters
and tuck things away in his trunk.

"There, you are right again, not much. But I won forty dollars on the track; I sometimes go
out there," he added as a sort of excuse, "as it is impossible to live on literature alone.
I could spare ten."

"Can you really spare them? I won't be able to return them, you know. I would like to have
them. I suppose you will refuse to let me buy a revolver with them. I have all sorts of poisons,"
he pointed to some little bottles, "but I would prefer not to use them, it wouldn't be esthetical,
and then I want to go away to some place where nobody knows me. I don't want to be identified."

The literary man slowly pulled a small roll out of his pocket. He thought of his wife and children
who needed the money. It was really foolish to have made that offer. Well, it was probably
the last service he could render his friend. Morrison was serious about his departure, there
was no doubt about that. "Here!"

"Thanks," Morrison answered, though he did not take the money right away. He looked about absentmindedly,
as in a dream. This was friendship indeed. He had not believed that anybody could so completely
enter another man's state of mind. Not a word of opposition. This was glorious! They had known
each other for more than seventeen years. They had often drifted apart and, somehow, had always
met again. They had never been very intimate, they had merely respected each other for the
work they had accomplished, each in his profession; although they differed largely in ideas.
Morrison was a sculptor, and almost an ancient Greek in his feelings for the beauty of lines.
The tall, lean man, on the other hand, was a strange mixture of a visionary and brutal realist.
They both were cynics, however, that found life rather futile. With the literary man this was
merely a theoretical view point, while Morrison was really embittered with life. The incidents
of this afternoon had surprised him. He was deeply moved and felt as if he should give utterance
to his emotions. He remembered that his attitude towards his friend had been rather arrogant
at times. He now felt sorry for it, but somehow could not form his sentiments and thoughts
into coherent sentences.

"Thanks," he simply repeated, "Has anybody seen you enter the house?"

"No, the door was open and I walked right up. Why do you ask?"

"I don't want anybody to be mixed up in this affair, as it only concerns me."

The literary man smiled: "Could any man influence you one way or another? As far as I can make
out you are beyond mortal influence."

A pause ensued. Morrison threw the last thing into his trunk. "Well, I am ready. Everything
is settled."

"How about your statues?"

"Pshaw!" Morrison shrugged his shoulders. "Nobody was interested in them while I lived. Why
should I bother to think what might become of them after my death?"

The author nodded and scowled at the same time. He was not satisfied with the answer. But there
were still other things on his mind. He was used to analyze everything to shreds and tatters.
"Are you not afraid that you might make a botch out of the whole job?"

Morrison weighed the question in his mind, then shook his head and answered: "No, there is
hardly a chance for it now. I have been tuned up to it, trained myself to it, so to speak.
The fruit is ripe. It has to fall. It would be awful, though--" he added, with an after-thought.
"Do you remember my emerald ring? I had to pawn it, but I kept the poison which was hidden
under the stone. I will take that if anything goes wrong."

"Would you object to my company?" asked the tall, lean man, "I mean until all is over. I, myself,
am not quite ready yet for any such heroical performances."

