    [12] I do not know whether it be worth while to attempt to refute
    the opinion which has been founded on an erroneous passage in
    Eginhard, that Charlemagne could not write. Eginhard understood,
    as Gibbon says, the court and the world, and the Latin language,
    it is true; but, nevertheless, we may much more rationally believe
    that the secretary made use of a vague expression, than
    suppose that he wished to imply, in one sentence, the manifest
    contradiction of Charlemagne being in the habit of going through
    all the abstruse calculations of astronomy, in an age when those
    calculations were most complicated, without being able to write.
    The whole of Charlemagne's life renders the supposition absurd.
    He studied under Alcuin, whose first rule was to teach the most
    correct orthography in writing. We know that he subscribed many
    deeds, though his signature was abbreviated, to render it as rapid
    as possible. Eginhard himself states, that the monarch wrote the
    history of the ancient kings in verse: and Lambecius, one of the
    highest antiquarian authorities, declares, that the imperial
    library still contains a manuscript, corrected by the hand of
    Charlemagne himself.

Nor did the monarch remain satisfied with leading the way himself on the path of knowledge
which he desired the whole nation to follow; nor content himself with bestowing on his children
a careful and judicious education, both mental and corporeal; but by constantly proposing in
writing questions for solution, addressed to the various prelates and teachers of his realm,
he forced them to exercise their talents and cultivate their minds, under the severe penalty
of shame and ridicule. On the other hand, literary merit was never without its reward, for
though, as far as we can discover, Charlemagne, wise in his generosity, seldom if ever gave
more than one profitable charge at once to one man, yet those who distinguished themselves
by talent and exertion, were sure to meet with honour, distinction, and competence.--James.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONEY OF BETRAYAL, OR "PRICE OF BLOOD."

[Two Illustrations]

The following very curious notice respecting the money (coin and value) for which Judas Iscariot
betrayed our Redeemer, (and afterwards, with it, purchased "the Potter's Field, to bury strangers
in,") is extracted from The Sovereign Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, by ANDREW FAVINE, 1620,
and will no doubt prove acceptable to the reader:--

"In this citty of Rhodes they did beate and stamp money of silver, in bignesse somewhat neare
to an half teston of France, but yet much thicker, and the figures thereon more embossed than
ours are. These pieces of silver are like to the halfe sickle of the Jews, or the diobrachma
of the Romaines, but they be more worth. There is a tradition, that the thirtie pence, for
which the Saviour of the world was sold and delivered to the Jews, by the traitor, Judas, were
of this kinde. And in very deede, in the Church of the Holy Crosse of Jerusalem, at Rome, is
to be seene one of those thirtie pence, which is wholly like to that in the Church of the Temple,
in the citty of Paris. It is enchased in a shrine, and is to be seene but thorow a christall
glasse, and on the side which may be noated, appeareth nothing but a head.

"The learned Gulielmus Budeus, the honour of our Citty of Paris, and of all France, in the
remarkable tract which he wrote, De Asse, affirmeth that he had scene the pennie of silver,
in the Temple at Paris, and that on it was represented a head, as in truth there is. But, concerning
the other side, neither the learned Cardinall Baronius, nor Budeus, doe speake anything else;
then of the weight of those silver pence, which the Evangelists tearme Argenteos. One of those
silver pence of Rhodes I have, and both the sides thereof, in this manner I shew to you (vide
Engraving).

"I have confronted and compared it with the sight of that pennie at Rome, and the other in
the Temple at Paris, and they are all three alike, both in the visage and in the circumference.
Mine is in weight two groates, a halfe pennie less of silver, which commeth to twelve sols
and one liard. On the other (one?) side, it hath the visage of the sunne, like to the fashion
of a young man's face, without a beard, with long locks of hayre, as here it is figured, and
as poets have feigned. On the other side is a blowne rose, higher and greater than ours are;[13]
which commeth somewhat neare in resemblance to the rose which we tearme of Jericho, and which
are brought from the Holy Land. Upon this pennie the rose hath, on eache side, a button, (bud)
the one whereof beginneth to blome, but not the other. Above the rose, on the ring of the piece,
is formed in capitall Greeke letters, [Greek: RODION], (Rhodian,) which signifieth, and would
say (if it could) a rose. At the foote whereof is this sillable, EY. (Favine then mentions
the arms of Rhodes, which, as well as we are able to translate the old French, left untranslated,
appears to be Field d'Argent, a rose proper, with buds; gules, stalk, de synople.) So," he
continues, "that thirtie pence of this money amounteth not but altogether to the summe of eighteen
poundes seaven shillings and sixe-pence of our money, and seemeth a very small summe for buying
a piece of ground, or land, which the Evangelists call Ackeldemach, (Alcedaema), 'The Potter's
Field,' so neere to Jerusalem peopled with more than a million of men, solde for an offence,
and with condition that it should never be redeemed, in regard it was destined for the Burial-place
of Pilgrims, which came to Jerusalem at the solemn Feasts there held; and every one well knoweth,
that (amongst the Jews) inheritances were sold, more or less, according as the conditions were
made, either neere, or further off, from the yeare of jubilee, which they feasted from fifty
yeares, to fifty yeares; a feast, so solemnly observed among them, that the sellers did then
re-enter into their sold inheritances, which they possessed again freely, and without any charge,
or paying any arrerages, according as it was ordained by their law, in the five-and-twentieth
chapter of Leviticus. But it may be, this Potter's Field was (in parte) bought with those thirtie
pence, and the other parte might be the almes and giftes of the proprietaries or owners, both
in the Temple of Jerusalem and publickly, for so good a subject as the buriall of pilgrims,
and poore strangers. For ever, and beside the offerings and Tribute-money, which the Jews offered
and paid to the treasurers in the Temple, for maintaining the Tribe of Levi, (the deserving
ministers thereof) who, at the distribution and division of the Land of Promise to the Jewish
people, had not any lot or partage (but were assigned to the Jews devotion,) inheritances might
be legacied to them, which falling into mortmaine, could not be redeemed by any custome of
kindred, whatsoever jubilee might be alledged, or selling, or alienating, as it is written
in the seaven-and-twentieth of Leviticus. And such an inheritance was called Ager Anathematis--a
field wholly dedicated and consecrated to God; and which from thenceforward, might fall no
more into any secular, or prophane hand."

    [13] Amongst other interpretations of "Under the Rose," why may
    we not conjecture that it may have something to do with bribes to
    silence? with hush-money? the Rose, in many countries, being
    not an unusual stamp on their coins.

After this erudite disquisition, which endeavours to account for the smallness of the sum for
which our blessed Lord was betrayed, and for which Alcedama was purchased, how would honest
Andrew Favine stare, could he learn that modern commentators have, without comment, assigned
something less than one-fifth of 18l. 7s. 6d. as the "price of innocent blood." We transcribe
in proof, the annotation on Mat. 26 c. 15 v. from D'Oyly and Mant's Bible:--"'Thirty pieces
of silver.' Thirty shekels, about 3l. 10s. 8d. of our money. It appears from Exod. 21 c. 32
v., that this was the price to be paid for a slave or servant, when killed by a beast. So vilely
was HE esteemed, who shed his precious blood for man; and so true it is, that Christ took upon
him the form of a servant." Now, the Jewish shekel being valued at 2s. 4-1/4d. and the coin
of the next superior denomination, (the maneh) being set down in our Bible money-tables, at
7l. 1s. 5d. it is clear that several of intermediate value must have existed, for exchange,
which might reconcile this difference. M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PORTDOWN FAIR.

    [A series of characteristic sketches of Life in the Navy, has
    appeared in the successive numbers of the Metropolitan, from the
    pen of Captain Marryatt, author of the King's Own, and other
    popular novels, with a high stamp of originality. The sketches
    before us are entitled Peter Simple, and detail the early
    adventures of a Middy with much of that delightful ease we are
    wont to admire in the writings of Smollett, Fielding, and the
    character novelists of the latter half of the past century. The
    style of Captain Marryatt is fresh, vigorous, and racy--"native
    and to the manner born,"--abounding in lively anecdote, but never
    straying into caricature--with just enough of the romance of life
    to keep the incidents afloat from commonplace, and probability
    above-board. This and the following are specimen sketches.]

We all had leave from the first lieutenant to go to Portdown fair, but he would only allow
the oldsters to sleep on shore. We anticipated so much pleasure from our excursion, that some
of us were up, and went away in the boat sent for fresh beef. This was very foolish. There
were no carriages to take us to the fair, nor indeed any fair so early in the morning: the
shops were all shut, and the Blue Posts, where we always rendezvoused was hardly open. We waited
there in the coffee-room, until we were driven out by the maid sweeping away the dirt, and
were forced to walk about until she had finished, and lighted the fire, when we ordered our
breakfast; but how much better would it have been to have taken our breakfast comfortably on
board, and then to have come on shore, especially as we had no money to spare. Next to being
too late, being too soon is the worst plan in the world. It really was a most beautiful sight.
The bright blue sky, and the coloured flags flapping about in all directions, the grass so
green, and the white tents and booths, the sun shining so bright, and the shining gilt gingerbread,
the variety of toys and variety of noise, the quantity of people and the quantity of sweetmeats;
little boys so happy, and shop people so polite, the music at the booths, and the bustle and
eagerness of the people outside, made my heart quite jump. And the largest giant in the world,
and Mr. Paap, the smallest dwarf in the world, and a female dwarf, who was smaller still, and
Miss Biffin, who did every thing without legs or arms. There was also the learned pig, and
the Herefordshire ox, and a hundred other sights which I cannot now remember. They were all
secured in iron cages, and a large chandelier, with twenty lights, hung in the centre of the
booth, and lighted them up, while the keeper went round and stirred them up with his long pole;
at the same time he gave us their histories, which were very interesting. I recollect a few
of them. And there was the laughing hyaena, who cries in the wood like a human being in distress,
and devours those who come to his assistance--a sad instance of the depravity of human nature,
as the keeper observed. There was a beautiful creature, the royal Bengal tiger, only three
years old, what growed ten inches every year, and never arrived at its full growth. The one
we saw measured, as the keeper told us, sixteen feet from the snout to the tail, and seventeen
feet from the tail to the snout; but there must have been some mistake there. I hardly knew
where I was when I climbed up; but I knew the birds were mostly stationed above. However, that
I might not have the front of my trousers torn as well as the behind, as soon as I gained my
footing I turned round, with my back to the bars of the cage; but I had not been there a minute,
before I was attacked by something which digged into me like a pickaxe, and as the hyaena had
torn my clothes, I had no defence against it. To turn round would have been worse still; so
after having received above a dozen stabs, I contrived by degrees to shift my position, until
I was opposite to another cage, but not until the pelican, for it was that brute, had drawn
as much blood from me as would have fed his young for a week. The sight which presented itself
was truly shocking; twenty or thirty men, women, and children, lay on the ground, and I thought
at first the lioness had killed them all, but they were only in fits, or had been trampled
down by the crowd. The pelican was the worst part of the business.

SCOTCH "BLUID."

We had a new messmate of the name of M'Foy.

"Well, Mr. M'Foy, you have had a long journey; I presume it is the first that you have ever made."

"Well, where did you go to when you arrived in London?"

"I went to a place ca'd Chichester Rents, to the house of Storm and Mainwaring, Warehousemen,
and they must have anither sax-pence for showing me the way. There I waited half-an-hour in
the counting-house, till they took me to a place ca'd Bull and Mouth, and put me into a coach,
paying my whole fare; nevertheless they must din me for money the whole of the way down. There
was first the guard, and then the coachman, and another guard, and another coachman; but I
wudna listen to them, and so they growled and abused me."

"And when did you arrive?"

"I came here last night; and I only had a bed and a breakfast at the twa Blue Pillars' house,
for which they extortioned me three shillings and sax-pence, as I sit here. And then there
was the chambermaid hussy and waiter loon axed me to remember them, and wanted more siller;
but I told them, as I told the guard and coachman, that I had none for them." But there's a
smell here that's no canny; so I just go up again into the fresh air."

When Mr. M'Foy quitted the gun-room, they all laughed very much. After he had been a short
time on deck, he went down into the midshipmen's berth; but he made himself very unpleasant,
quarrelling and wrangling with every body. His look told me that he was in earnest. "But what
do you mean?" inquired I. "I mean," said he, drawing the edge and feeling the point of his
weapon, "to put into the wheam of that man with the gold podge on his shoulder, who has dared
to place me here." Mr. Falcon laughed, and shortly afterwards went down on the main-deck.

(FROM THE DOUBLE TRIAL.)

Thurlow had travelled the ---- Circuit for some years with little notice, and with no opportunity
to put forth his abilities; when the housekeeper of a Duke of N---- was prosecuted for stealing
a great deal of linen, with which she had been intrusted. An attorney of little note and practice
conducted the woman's case. He knew full well that he could expect no hearty co-operation in
employing any of the leading counsel: it was a poor case, and a low case; and it could not
be supposed that they, "the foremost men of all the bar," would set themselves, "tooth and
nail," against the Duke, who in himself, his agents, and his friends, made the greatest part
of every high legal and political assemblage in the country. The attorney looked round, therefore,
for some young barrister who had nothing to lose, and might have something to win; and he fixed
upon Thurlow. Thurlow read over his brief with the highest glee, and had an interview with
the prisoner. As he entered the court, he jogged another briefless one like himself, and said,
in his favourite slang language--"Neck or nothing, my boy, to-day! I'll soar or tumble!" The
opening speech of the eminent counsel for the Duke, and the evidence, completely convicted
the woman. The articles stolen were brought into court. When Thurlow rose to cross-examine
the leading witness, before he asked a question, he merely, bending his black brows upon the
man, turned round, and desired to look at the things that were said to be stolen. They were
before him all the time, and were then presented to him; and, without a word, he carelessly
tossed them again upon the table before him. He now closely questioned the witness, as to points
of honour and honesty; then, in a minute or two, again asked to see the things. He was informed
that he had already had them handed to him, and that they were now before him. "I mean," said
he, with well-assumed ignorance, "the things that this unhappy woman is accused of having stolen."
The witness, with great sufficiency and knowledge, as if to prove his own correctness, pointed
them out upon the table before him. "And what else?" said he. He was answered that they were
the whole. "And you, Mr. Witness," said he, with a sneer, "are the man of great trust, of accredited
honour and honesty; and, full of your own consequence, and in high feather, you come here to
follow up a prosecution against a fellow-servant, and a confidential one (you tell me), whom
you have indicted as a felon, for taking these rags," exhibiting some cloth that happened to
be torn; "and this is the sum and substance of her offence! And all these witnesses," pointing
to a group, who had pushed themselves forward, "have been brought into this honourable court,
to affix the ownership of the high and mighty noble Duke and Duchess to these cast-off, worn-out
clothes! And here comes this fine gentleman to swear to the robber of that," holding up the
garment, "which he himself would not accept as a gift! Shame, say I; and I am certain every
one of your hearts, Gentlemen of the Jury, reechoes my indignant feeling! Shame, say I, on
everyone of the party," pausing to give one of his looks to each individual, "that is concerned
in such a business! Why, it is more like a conspiracy against this poor destitute woman, against
whom I lament to see my very honourable and learned brethren," pointing to the other counsel,
"here arrayed--it is more like a conspiracy (not that my learned friends have lot, or part,
or feeling in the business)--more like a conspiracy against this woman, than any, the least
act of felony on her part. These clothes! I pray you look at them, Gentlemen of the Jury--these
clothes!! Can you conceive, Gentlemen, that if you were a Duke and Duchess of N----, you would
have even offered to give a housekeeper, a woman of credit and respectability--a fellow-servant
of this fine gentleman before you--such worn-out rags as these? Would you have thought it worthy
of consideration, if such a servant had thought proper to appropriate to her own use a cart-load
of this trumpery? If the poor woman did remove out of sight such trash as this, all I say is,
that she seems to have had more respect for the credit and honour of that noble house than
any of the people whose ridiculous pretensions to honesty have persecuted her and exhibited
themselves here.