Another old English patent medicine against which the Department of Agriculture was forced
to take action was Hooper's Female Pills. Between 1919 and 1923, government agents seized a
great many shipments of this ancient remedy in versions put out by three Philadelphia concerns.[119]
Some of the packages bore red seals, others green seals, and still others black, but the labeling
of all claimed them to be "a safe and sovereign remedy in female complaints." This theme was
expanded in considerable detail and there was an 18th-century ring to the promise that the
pills would work a sure cure "in all hypochondriac, hysterick or vapourish disorders." No pill
made essentially of aloes and ferrous sulphate, said the government experts, could do these
things. Nor did the manufacturers, in court, seek to say otherwise. Whether the seals were
green or red, whether the packages were seized in Washington or Worcester, the result was the
same. No party appeared in court to claim the pills, and they were condemned and destroyed.

      [119] Multiple seizures were made of products shipped by the
      Horace B. Taylor Co., Fore & Co., and the American Synthetic Co.
      The quotations are from Notice of Judgment 8868; see also 8881,
      8914, 8936, 8956, 8974, 9134, 9147, 9203, 9510, 9586, 9785,
      10203, 10204, 10629, 11519, 11669.

In one of the last actions under the 1906 law, a case concluded in 1940, after the first federal
statute had been superseded by a more rigorous one enacted in 1938, two of the old English
patent medicines encountered trouble.[120] They were British Oil and Dalby's Carminative, as
prepared by the South Carolina branch of a large pharmaceutical manufacturing concern.

      [120] Federal Security Agency, Food and Drug Administration,
      Notice of Judgment 31134, United States vs. McKesson and Robbins,
      Inc., Murray Division, 1942.

According to the label, the British Oil was made in conformity with the Philadelphia College
of Pharmacy formula given in an outdated edition of the United States dispensatory. But instead
of containing a proper amount of linseed oil, if indeed it contained any, the medicine was
made with cottonseed oil, an ingredient not mentioned in the Dispensatory. Therefore, the government
charged, the Oil was adulterated, under that provision of the law requiring a medicine to maintain
the strength and purity of any standard it professed to follow. More than that, the labeling
contravened the law since it represented the remedy as an effective treatment for various swellings,
inflammations, fresh wounds, earaches, shortnesses of breath, and ulcers.

Dalby's Carminative was merely misbranded, but that was bad enough. Its label suggested that
it be used especially "For Infants Afflicted With Wind, Watery Gripes, Fluxes and Other Disorders
of the Stomach and Bowels," although it would aid adults as well. The impression that this
remedy was capable of curing such afflictions, the government charged, was false and fraudulent.
Moreover, since the Carminative contained opium, it was not a safe medicine when given according
to the dosage directions in a circular accompanying the bottle. For these and several other
violations of the law, the defending company, which did not contest the case, was fined a hundred
dollars.

Throughout the 19th century, occasional criticism of the old English patent medicines had been
made in the lay press. One novel[121] describes a physician who comments on the use of Dalby's
Carminative for babies: "Don't, for pity's sake, vitiate and torment your poor little angel's
stomach, so new to the atrocities of this world, with drugs. These mixers of baby medicines
ought to be fed nothing but their own nostrums. That would put a stop to their inventions of
the adversary."

      [121] John William De Forest, Miss Ravenel's conversion from
      secession to loyalty, New York, 1867.

Opium had been lauded in the 17th and 18th centuries, when the old English proprietaries began,
as a superior cordial which could moderate most illnesses and even cure some. "Medicine would
be a one-armed man if it did not possess this remedy." So had stated the noted English physician,
Thomas Sydenham.[122] But the 20th century had grown to fear this powerful narcotic, especially
in remedies for children. This point of view, illustrated in the governmental action concerning
Dalby's Carminative, was also reflected in medical comment about Godfrey's Cordial. During
1912, a Missouri physician described the death of a baby who had been given this medicine for
a week.[123] The symptoms were those of opium poisoning. Deploring the naming of this "dangerous
mixture" a "cordial," since the average person thought of a cordial as beneficial, the doctor
hoped that the formula might be omitted from the next edition of the National formulary. This
did not happen, for the recipe hung on until 1926. The Harrison Narcotic Act, enacted in 1914
as a Federal measure to restrict the distribution of narcotics,[124] failed to restrict the
sale of many opium-bearing compounds like Godfrey's Cordial. In 1931, a Tennessee resident
complained to the medical journal Hygeia that this medication was "sold in general stores and
drug stores here without prescription and is given to babies." To this, the journal replied
that the situation was "little short of criminal."[125] The charge leveled against his competitors
by one of the first producers of Godfrey's Cordial two centuries earlier (see page 158) may
well have proved a prophecy broad enough to cover the whole history of this potent nostrum.

      [122] Charles H. LaWall, The curious lore of drugs and medicines
      (Four thousand years of pharmacy), Garden City, New York, 1927,
      p. 281.

      [123] W. B. Sissons, "Poisoning from Godfrey's Cordial," Journal
      of the American Medical Association, March 2, 1912, vol. 58, p.
      650.

      [125] "Godfrey's Cordial," Hygeia, October 1931, vol. 9, p.
      1050.

For those who persist in using the formulas of the early English patent medicines, recipes
are still available. Turlington's Balsam remains as an unofficial synonym of U.S.P. Compound
Tincture of Benzoin. Concerning its efficacy, the United States dispensatory[126] states: "The
tincture is occasionally employed internally as a stimulating expectorant in chronic bronchitis.
More frequently it is used as an inhalent ... It has also been recommended in chronic dysentery
... but is of doubtful utility."

      [126] The dispensatory of the United States of America, 25th
      ed., Philadelphia, 1955, p. 158.

A formula for Godfrey's Cordial, under the title of Mixture of Opium and Sassafras, is still
carried in the Pharmaceutical recipe book.[127] Remington's practice of pharmacy[128] retains
a formula for Dalby's Carminative under the former National formulary title of Carminative Mixture.

      [127] The Pharmaceutical recipe book, 2nd ed., American
      Pharmaceutical Association, 1936, p. 121.

      [128] Eric W. Martin and E. Fullerton Cook, editors, Remington's
      practice of pharmacy, 11th ed., Easton, Pennsylvania, 1956, p.
      286.

In the nation of their origin, the continuing interest in the ancient proprietaries seems somewhat
more lively than in America. The 1953 edition of Pharmaceutical formulas, published by the
London journal The Chemist and Druggist, includes formulas for eight of the ten old patent
medicines described in this study. This compendium, indeed, lists not one, but three different
recipes for British Oil, and the formulas by which Dalby's Carminative may be compounded run
on to a total of eight. Two lineal descendents of 18th-century firms which took the lead in
exporting to America still manufacture remedies made so long ago by their predecessors. May,
Roberts & Co., Ltd., of London, successors to the Newbery interests, continues to market Hooper's
Female Pills, whereas W. Sutton & Co. (Druggists' Sundries), London, Ltd., of Enfield, in Middlesex,
successors to Dicey & Co. at Bow Churchyard, currently sells Bateman's Pectoral Drops.[129]

      [129] Letter from Owen H. Waller, editor of The Chemist and
      Druggist, to George Griffenhagen, January 15, 1957.

In America, however, the impact of the old English patent medicines has been largely absorbed
and forgotten. During the past twenty years a revolution in medical therapy has taken place.
Most of the drugs in use today were unknown a quarter of a century ago. Some of the newer drugs
can really perform certain of the healing miracles claimed by their pretentious proprietors
for the old English patent medicines.

A more recent import from Britain, penicillin, may prove to have an even longer life on these
shores than did Turlington's Balsam or Bateman's Drops. Still, two hundred years is a long
time. Despite the fact that these early English patent medicines are nearly forgotten by the
public today, their American career is none the less worth tracing. It reflects aspects not
only of medical and pharmaceutical history, but of colonial dependence, cultural nationalism,
industrial development, and popular psychology. It reveals how desperate man has been when
faced with the terrors of disease, how he has purchased the packaged promises offered by the
sincere but deluded as well as by the charlatan. It shows how science and law have combined
to offer man some safeguards against deception in his pursuit of health.

The time seems ripe to write the epitaph of the old English patent medicines in America. That
they are now a chapter of history is a token of medical progress for mankind.