Then he asked for something to eat, and Sancho put before him an abundance of food, since he
said he was very hungry. When he had eaten, he asked them to sit still and listen to his story.
There, he claimed, he fell asleep, only to wake and find himself in a beautiful field, from
where he had gone on a regular sightseeing trip, visiting the most wonderful castles and palaces,
and meeting with the most exalted personages. Among these was no other than the enchanted Montesinos
himself. He had taken Don Quixote into his own palace, built of crystal and alabaster, and
shown him the tomb of his friend Durandarte, who lay there in his enchantment, with his hairy
hand over his heart. Don Quixote had asked whether it were indeed true that he, Montesinos,
had cut out the heart of his dead friend, as the story had told, and brought it to his Lady
Belerma, and Montesinos had nodded in affirmation.

Suddenly they had heard the poor dead knight moan in the most heartrending way, and he had
asked Montesinos again and again whether he had done as he had bade him and carried his heart
to his Lady Belerma in France. Montesinos had fallen on his knees and had assured his cousin
with tearful eyes that as soon as he had died he had cut out his heart with a poniard, dried
it with a lace handkerchief as well as he could, and then departed to see his Lady. At the
first village he had come to in France, he had stopped to sprinkle some salt on it to keep
it fresh, and had given it to the Lady Belerma, who was now also enchanted in this cave.

Don Quixote continued his tale. The enchanter, the sage Merlin, so Montesinos had said, had
prophesied that he, Don Quixote, reviver of knight-errantry, was to be the one to disenchant
them all. He and Montesinos had almost come to blows, however, when the latter had inferred
that during her enchantment the Lady Belerma had developed large circles under her eyes, and
that if it had not been for these her beauty would have surpassed even that of the famous Lady
Dulcinea of El Toboso. But Montesinos was courteous enough to apologize and acknowledge the
truth of the proverb which says that comparisons are odious.

Sancho and the young author of books had some difficulty in persuading themselves that all
these things had happened in so short a time, for Don Quixote had only been gone about an hour;
but Don Quixote, hearing this, insisted that he had been absent three days and three nights.
Then he proceeded to tell how he had felt no hunger whatever, that none down there ever ate,
and that the enchanted never slept; he admitted, however, that their nails, hair, and beards grew.

When Sancho heard all this he asked to be forgiven by God for saying he thought his master
was lying, but the next moment he had retracted it, and when his master asked what he really
meant, he said he did not know.

There was one thing that had happened to our knight in the cave, which caused him infinite
pain; he had met one of the enchanted ladies-in-waiting to his Lady Dulcinea, and she had told
him in confidence that his beloved one wanted to borrow six reals on a petticoat which she
had bought. He gave her all that he had, which amounted to only four reals, and she gave him
in exchange her lady's blessing, saying that with it went many kisses. As she left him, he
said, she had cut a caper and had sprung fully two yards into the air. O Señor, Señor, consider
yourself!

CHAPTER XXIV

WHEREIN ARE RELATED SOME TRIFLING MATTERS, AS TRIVIAL AS THEY ARE NECESSARY TO THE RIGHT UNDERSTANDING
OF THIS GREAT HISTORY

The scholar was surprised that Don Quixote permitted his servant to talk to him in this way,
but ascribed his lenience to the good mood he was in. After having whiled away still another
hour talking pleasantly, they proceeded to find a place where they might spend the night. The
scholar knew of a hermitage not very far off; and on their way there they encountered a man
with a mule that was loaded with halberds and lances. Don Quixote was curious to know where
he was taking the weapons, but the man answered that he was in great haste to reach the inn
beyond the hermitage. He would spend the night at this inn, he said, and if they happened to
be there too, he would tell them some things that were both interesting and curious. Don Quixote
was so inquisitive that he decided to pass by the hermitage and go to the inn instead.

Just before coming to the inn, they met a happy looking lad of eighteen or nineteen, who carried
a sword over his shoulder and a bundle on his back. Don Quixote stopped him and asked where
he was going; and the lad replied that he was going to war for his king. He told the knight
how he had been in the service of office-seekers and adventurers in Madrid until he had tired
of such a life; and this pleased Don Quixote so much that he invited him to sit behind him
on Rocinante and ride with him to the inn to sup with him. But the page, seeing the leanness
of the knight's steed, said he preferred to walk, though he was glad to accept the invitation
for supper.

As soon as they had arrived at the inn, Don Quixote asked the landlord for the man with the
lances and halberds; and Sancho was happy to know that his master took this inn for an inn
and not for an enchanted castle.

CHAPTER XXV

WHEREIN IS SET DOWN THE BRAYING ADVENTURE, AND THE DROLL ONE OF THE PUPPET-SHOWMEN, TOGETHER
WITH THE MEMORABLE DIVINATIONS OF THE DIVINING APE

Don Quixote found the man with the arms feeding his mule in the stable, and he asked the knight
to accompany him to a quiet nook when he had finished this duty to his beast. But Don Quixote's
curiosity knew no bounds, and he offered to help him sift the barley so that he might begin
his story at once. Being a good-natured fellow, the man acquiesced. He related how a magistrate
in his village, which was four leagues and a half away, had lost a donkey through the carelessness
of a servant. Some weeks later another magistrate of the same village was hunting in the woods,
and when he returned he brought word to his fellow officer that he had come across the lost
beast but that he was now so wild that no one could approach him. He suggested, however, that
they go together in search for him; and they developed a plan whereby they thought they should
surely be able to capture the animal. Both of them were expert in braying, and they decided
to place themselves at different ends of the forest, each one braying at intervals. In this
way they thought they should be able to round up the donkey, for they were certain that he
would answer their calls.

But it so happened that both of them brayed at the same time, and when they ran to look, convinced
that the donkey had turned up, they found not the ass but only each other, so naturally had
they brayed. They tried the same scheme again and again, but every time with the same result;
and at last they came in this way to a place in the woods where they found the dead donkey
devoured by wolves.

The story of the two magistrates going about in the forest braying to each other like asses
soon spread to the villages in the county; and in one village in particular the habit of braying
whenever they observed any one from the village of the braying magistrates took such root that
it was decided to teach them a lesson by taking arms against them. The arms he carried with
him now, he said, were to be used against these scoffers, that they might never again behave
like asses.

