OLD FORT SNELLING

From a painting by Captain Seth Eastman, reproduced in Mrs. Eastman's Dahcotah; or, Life and
Legends of the Sioux around Fort Snelling

OLD FORT SNELLING

1819-1858

BY MARCUS L. HANSEN

PUBLISHED AT IOWA CITY IOWA IN 1918 BY THE STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF IOWA

THE TORCH PRESS CEDAR RAPIDS IOWA

EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION

The establishment in 1917 of a camp at Fort Snelling for the training of officers for the army
has aroused curiosity in the history of Old Fort Snelling. Again as in the days of the pioneer
settlement of the Northwest the Fort at the junction of the Minnesota and Mississippi rivers
has become an object of more than ordinary interest.

Old Fort Snelling was established in 1819 within the Missouri Territory on ground which later
became a part of the Territory of Iowa. Not until 1849 was it included within Minnesota boundaries.
Linked with the early annals of Missouri, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, and the Northwest,
the history of Old Fort Snelling is the common heritage of many commonwealths in the Upper
Mississippi Valley.

The period covered in this volume begins with the establishment of the Fort in 1819 and ends
with the temporary abandonment of the site as a military post in 1858.

BENJ. F. SHAMBAUGH

OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT AND EDITOR THE STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF IOWA IOWA CITY IOWA

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

The position which the military post holds in western history is sometimes misunderstood. So
often has a consideration of it been left to the novelist's pen that romantic glamour has obscured
the permanent contribution made by many a lonely post to the development of the surrounding
region. The western fort was more than a block-house or a picket. Being the home of a handful
of soldiers did not give it its real importance: it was an institution and should be studied
as such. Old Fort Snelling is a type of the many remote military stations which were scattered
throughout the West upon the upper waters of the rivers or at intermediate places on the interminable
stretches of the westward trails.

This study of the history and influence of Old Fort Snelling was first undertaken at the suggestion
of Dr. Louis Pelzer of the State University of Iowa, and was carried on under his supervision.
The results of the investigation were accepted as a thesis in the Graduate College of the State
University of Iowa in June, 1917. Upon the suggestion of Dr. Benj. F. Shambaugh, Superintendent
of The State Historical Society of Iowa, the plan of the work was changed, its scope enlarged,
many new sources of information were consulted, and the entire manuscript rewritten.

Connected with so many of the aspects of western history, Old Fort Snelling is pictured in
accounts both numerous and varied. The reports of government officials, the relations of travellers
and explorers, and the reminiscences of fur traders, pioneer settlers, and missionaries show
the Fort as each author, looking at it from the angle of his particular interest, saw it. These
published accounts are found in the Annual Reports of the Secretary of War, in the Annual Reports
of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and in the works of travellers and pioneers. Many of
the most important sources are the briefer accounts printed in the Minnesota Historical Collections.
The author's dependence upon these sources of information is evident upon every page of this
volume.

But not alone from these sources, which are readily accessible, is this account of the Old
Fort drawn. A half-burned diary, the account books of the post sutler, letter books filled
with correspondence dealing with matters which are often trivial, and statistical returns of
men and equipment are sources which from their nature may never be printed. But in them reposes
much of the material upon which this book is based. The examination of all the documents which
offered any prospect of throwing light upon the subject was made possible for the author as
Research Assistant in The State Historical Society of Iowa. And in this connection I wish to
express my appreciation for the many courtesies which I have received from those in whose custody
these sources are kept. To Dr. Solon J. Buck, Superintendent of the Minnesota Historical Society
and the members of the library staff of that Society I am indebted for many kindnesses. Dr.
M. M. Quaife, Superintendent of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, placed at my disposal
thousands of sheets of transcripts made from the records of the Indian Department at Washington
and kept in the library of the Historical Society at Madison. At the Historical Department
of Iowa at Des Moines, and in the library of the Kansas State Historical Society at Topeka
opportunity was granted to examine valuable manuscripts. General H. P. McCain, Adjutant-General
of the United States, had a search made of the records on file in the archives of the War Department
at Washington, and such papers as dealt with Fort Snelling were consulted by the author.

My fellow workers on the staff of The State Historical Society of Iowa have often aided me
with suggestions and criticisms. To the Superintendent of the Society, Dr. Benj. F. Shambaugh,
I wish to express my appreciation not only for the advice, encouragement, and inspiration which
he freely gave, but also for the willingness with which he made possible the investigation
of every clue to sources of information by correspondence or by personal visit.  Moreover,
the manuscript has been carefully edited by him. The task of seeing the work through the press
has been performed by Associate Editor Dr. Dan E. Clark, who also carefully read the manuscript
and compiled the index. Miss Helen Otto assisted in the verification of the manuscript.

MARCUS L. HANSEN

THE STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF IOWA IOWA CITY IOWA

  CONTENTS

           Editor's Introduction                         v

           Author's Preface                            vii

      I.   A Century and a Half of Foreign Rule          1

     II.   The Evolution of Fort Snelling               18

    III.   Forty Years of Frontier Duty                 31

     IV.   Lords of the North                           54

      V.   A Soldier's World                            73

     VI.   Glimpses of Garrison Life                    84

    VII.   The Fort and Indian Life                    103

   VIII.   The Sioux-Chippewa Feuds                    119

     IX.   The Fur Trade                               135

      X.   Soldiers of the Cross                       146

     XI.   The Fashionable Tour                        159

    XII.   The Chippewa Treaty of 1837                 176

   XIII.   Citizens and Soldiers                       187

           Notes and References                        205

           Index                                       251

I

A CENTURY AND A HALF OF FOREIGN RULE

On an autumn day in 1766 Captain Jonathan Carver stood upon the bluff which rises at the junction
of the Mississippi and Minnesota rivers and viewed the wonderful landscape of prairie and wooded
valleys that lay before him. As a captain in the colonial troops of Connecticut he had served
his king faithfully in the late war with France; and now in the days of peace which followed
the glorious victory he sought to continue his usefulness by exploring the vast regions which
had been added to the domains of Great Britain and Spain. Three years of travel in the wilderness
taught him that those wild lands would not always be the haunt of savage animals and wandering
tribes.

"To what power or authority this new world will become dependent, after it has arisen from
its present uncultivated state, time alone can discover", he later wrote. "But as the seat
of Empire, from time immemorial has been gradually progressive towards the West, there is no
doubt but that at some future period, mighty kingdoms will emerge from these wildernesses,
and stately palaces and solemn temples, with gilded spires reaching the skies, supplant the
Indian huts, whose only decorations are the barbarous trophies of their vanquished enemies."[1]

Not until the twenty-fourth day of August, 1819, when less than a hundred soldiers of the Fifth
United States Infantry disembarked opposite the towering height where a few years later rose
the white walls of Fort Snelling, did the nation which was to rule assert its power. The event
was, indeed, epochal. It not only marked a change in the sovereignty over the vast region,
but it also made possible the development of those factors which were to bring about the great
transformation.

It was for the "upper country" that this fort was built--a country stretching from the Great
Lakes across the wooded headwaters of the Mississippi and Minnesota rivers to the plains of
the Missouri. The history of this region is marked by several distinct periods: the coming
of the French traders, the supremacy of the English companies, the establishment of military
posts of the United States, and the building of American communities.

Although at the opening of the second decade of the nineteenth century the American troops
quartered on the west banks of the Mississippi River were on soil that, in name, had been American
for sixteen years, and although they looked over the river to land that had since 1783 belonged
to their country, yet they had in fact taken possession of a foreign land. English, French,
and Spanish flags had at various times waved over certain parts of it.  Foreign influence,
during a century and a half, had become widespread and deeply rooted.

When in 1634 Jean Nicollet visited the Wisconsin country the French advance into the upper
Northwest had begun.[2] From 1658 to 1660 Radisson and Groseilliers wandered among the tribes
and brought the first canoe loads of furs to Canada from the far West. Then along with the
missionaries, Hennepin and Marquette, came the coureurs des bois, Nicholas Perrot and Daniel
Greyloson Duluth. It is unnecessary to recite in detail the exploits of these Frenchmen and
their successors.[3] For a century the songs of unknown boatmen rose from the waters of the
western rivers; unknown traders smoked in the lodges of Sioux and Chippewas; and hardy wanderers
whose feats of discovery are unrecorded, leaving behind the Missouri River, saw from afar the
wonders of the "Shining Mountains".[4] But if no record of them remains, their influence was
lasting. Living with the natives, supplying their needs by barter, and marrying the Indian
girls, the French gained a remarkable power over the northwestern tribes, which caused them
to consider whoever came from Canada their friend, even after the English government had supplanted
the French in power.

West of the lakes the transition from the French to the English rule created no disturbances,
such as Pontiac's conspiracy which so completely disrupted the trade in the East.[5] Continuing
the French policy and also their posts and voyageurs, the Scottish merchants of Montreal, organized
in 1784 as the North West Company, pushed westward from Green Bay and southward from Lake Winnipeg.
This advance was continued until the opening years of the next century. Although on nominally
Spanish territory, the tribes on the upper Missouri were won from the Spanish traders at St.
Louis by such severe cutting in prices that the latter could not compete. The posts of the
North West Company on the Red River of the North became the resort for many of the western
tribes.[6]

The diverting of the trade of these natives, who would naturally have come down the Missouri
where American traders could meet them and be benefited, was noticed by President Jefferson,
who, on January 18, 1803, wrote to Congress: "It is, however, understood, that the country
on that river is inhabited by numerous tribes, who furnish great supplies of furs and peltry
to the trade of another nation, carried on in a high latitude, through an infinite number of
portages and lakes, shut up by ice through a long season." In this same message was included
a recommendation that a small expedition be sent up to confer with the tribes with respect
to the admission of American traders.[7]

But the purchase of Louisiana altered matters. It was not only a matter of trade, but one of
sovereignty. A double movement was initiated: one to ascend the Mississippi under Zebulon M.
Pike, and the other the Missouri under Captain Meriwether Lewis and Lieutenant William Clark.
The reports of these two expeditions indicate how firm a grip the English traders had upon
the Indians of the upper Northwest.

The expedition of Lewis and Clark ascended the Missouri and passed over the mountains to the
Columbia River which was followed to the coast. The first winter, from late in October, 1804,
to early in April, 1805, was spent in a fort which was constructed in the village of the Mandans,
near the location of the present city of Mandan in North Dakota. Here was abundant opportunity
to investigate the fur trade. Nor had they long to wait. On the 27th of November, seven British
traders arrived from the North West Company's post on the Assiniboine River to barter with
the river tribes. The next day, in council with the Mandan chiefs, the Americans warned the
Indians not to receive medals or flags from the foreigners if they wished to be friends with
the "Great American Father". A day later this warning was communicated to the traders themselves
who promised to refrain from any such acts.[8] How well they kept their promises later events
showed. The Lewis and Clark expedition was only a passing pageant; for by the time of the War
of 1812, the only American traders who ventured to do business on the upper waters were practically
driven off by the foreign companies.[9]

The report of Zebulon M. Pike indicates that conditions were much worse on the upper Mississippi.
Leaving St. Louis on August 9, 1805, he returned to that place on April 30, 1806. About two
months were spent at a fort erected near the site of Little Falls, where he left a few men
and pushed on with the rest of the company to Leech Lake. Conversation with the fur traders
and councils with the Indians revealed the extent of the commerce of the North West Company.
He heard of permanent trading posts on the south side of Lake Superior and at the headwaters
of the St. Croix River; and he saw at Lower Red Cedar Lake, Sandy Lake, and Leech Lake the
rude stockades and log buildings which were called forts.[10] These three posts were included
in the "Department of Fond du Lac" and were the centers from which in the year 1805, trade
with the Indians was carried on by one hundred and nine men.[11] By means of the rivers and
portages of the wilderness the furs were brought to Canada without passing a custom house,
and thus the United States was defrauded of duties which, it was estimated, would amount to
$26,000 annually.[12]

Pike objected to many of the evident signs of British sovereignty: the British flag flying
above the headquarters of the department of Fond du Lac was shot down;[13] many of the Indians
were induced to give up their British medals and flags;[14] and Hugh M'Gillis, agent of the
company for the district, in response to Pike's letter of complaint, promised in the future
to refrain from displaying the British flag, presenting medals, or talking politics to the
Indians.[15] But his promises were no more seriously given than those of his brethren on the
Missouri.

Little of permanent value would have been accomplished if the acts of the explorer on September
23, 1805, had been omitted. The instructions issued to Pike on July 30, 1805, stated: "You
will be pleased to obtain permission from the Indians who claim the ground, for the erection
of military posts and trading-houses at the mouth of the river St. Pierre [the Minnesota River],
the falls of St. Anthony, and every other critical point which may fall under your observation;
these permissions to be granted in formal conferences, regularly recorded, and the ground marked
off."[16]

When Pike reached the mouth of the Minnesota River, the natural features of the locality convinced
him of the advantages which would arise from a fort located at that point. From the high bluff
lying between the Minnesota and the Mississippi rivers the course of both streams would be
under the sweep of the guns. Sheer walls of stone rising from the Mississippi could prevent
invasion; and the fur trading business could be regulated, as all boats entering or leaving
the Indian country must use one or the other of the two rivers.

A "bower" was constructed of sails, and on September 23rd Pike spoke to the Sioux Indians there
assembled concerning the transfer of Louisiana, the futility of their wars with the Chippewas,
and the evils of rum. He asked them to cede to the United States lands for military posts,
and dwelt on the value of these posts to the Indians. To this the chiefs assented, receiving
in return presents valued at $200 and sixty gallons of liquor. The terms of the treaty provided
that the Sioux should cede to the United States tracts "for the purpose of establishment of
military posts," at the mouth of the Minnesota and at the mouth of the St. Croix. A money consideration
was also mentioned, but a blank was left which was later filled in by the Senate with $2000.[17]

The government, busy with distressing foreign affairs, neglected to make a permanent occupation
of the explored region. A struggle between the American and British governments was arising
over events far remote from the northern lakes and woods. But the Canadian authorities saw
the necessity of having Indian allies for the approaching struggle. As early as 1807 reports
from the West indicated hostile feelings on the part of the Indians toward the Americans, and
an official at Mackinac wrote on August 30, 1807, that this condition "is principally to be
attributed to the influence of foreigners trading in the country."[18] Captain A. Gray, who
was sent to inquire into the aid which the Hudson's Bay Company and the North West Company
could furnish, reported to Sir George Prevost, commander of the British forces in Canada, on
January 12, 1812: "By means of these Companies, we might let loose the Indians upon them throughout
the whole extent of their Western frontier, as they have a most commanding influence over them."
In a memorandum of plans for the defence of Canada, General Brock noted that "the Co-operation
of the Indians will be attended with great expence in presents provisions &c."[19]

To this alliance the Indians gave willing ears. Their interests lay with the British rather
than with the Americans. The economic stability of Canada rested upon the fur trade, which
in turn could survive only if the free life of the hunt and the chase, which the Indians loved
so well, was left them. But with the Americans were associated the making of treaties and the
ceding of land. The Indians preferred to see upon their rivers the canoe of the trader rather
than the flatboat of the pioneer.[20]

The coming of hostilities was received joyfully by all the inhabitants of the Northwest. To
the Indian it meant an opportunity to avenge past wrongs; the Canadian hoped to make secure
his present condition; and the American settler saw a chance to drive out both enemies--Indians
and foreign traders alike. The news of the declaration of war reached the great rendezvous
of the North West Company at Fort William on the northern shore of Lake Superior on the sixteenth
of July, 1812, and the next day one of the traders left for the interior to rouse the natives.
The agent of the company at this post wrote enthusiastically: "I have not the least doubt but
our force, will in ten days hence, amount to at least five thousand effective men."[21]

But already a sufficient number of Indians had come to the aid of the English to render service.
On the very next day the English flag replaced the American above the fort at Mackinac. No
sooner had the news of the beginning of hostilities become known at the neighboring British
post at St. Joseph's than immediate preparations were made. The Indians were marshalled for
the attack, and a vessel belonging to the North West Company was requisitioned. The morning
of July 17th revealed the American fort surrounded by Indians and commanded by a cannon which
had been dragged upon a height of land. Seeing the futility of resistance the garrison surrendered
and marched out before noon. Of the total attacking force of 1021 there were Indians to the
number of 715, of whom the British leader wrote, "although these people's minds were much heated,
yet as soon as they heard the Capitulation was signed they all returned to their Canoes, and
not one drop either of Man's or Animal's Blood was Spilt, till I gave an Order for a certain
number of Bullocks to be purchased for them".[22] The ease with which the capture was made
had the effect of bringing to the English standards all the Indians of the Northwest, except
a part of the Miamis and Delawares, in spite of the fact that they had earlier made promises
of neutrality.[23]

Although the capture of the fort at Mackinac was accomplished without any Indian atrocities,
the success of that day was to precipitate a massacre, long to rankle in the minds of the pioneers
of the West. Immediately upon hearing of the capture of the fort, General Hull wrote to Captain
Heald in command at Fort Dearborn ordering the evacuation of that post.  On the morning of
August 15th, as the small garrison of fifty-five regulars and twelve militia were leaving the
fort with their women and children, they were fallen upon by a force of five hundred Indians.
Twenty-six regulars, all the militiamen, two women, and twelve children were murdered on the
spot. An unknown number of wounded prisoners were that evening victims at what the Indians
termed a "general frolic".[24]

In the meantime Robert Dickson, who for many years had been a Prairie du Chien fur trader,
was continuing his activities as recruiter of Indians for British service. This was the same
Dickson who had in 1802 received an American commission as a justice of the peace,[25] and
had later entertained Pike and his men "with a supper and a dram", impressing the American
explorer as a man of "open, frank manners."[26] Now, in January, 1813, he was appointed by
Great Britain "agent for the Indians of the several Nations to the Westward of Lake Huron".[27]

By June 23, 1813, he had already sent eight hundred Indians to Detroit and had collected six
hundred at Mackinac.[28] The summer of 1813 was spent in operations about Detroit, but in the
winter he was again active in the West.[29] Great alarm was felt at St. Louis when rumors came
telling of the great force he was collecting.[30] Accordingly, late in the spring of 1814,
Governor William Clark of Missouri Territory proceeded up the Mississippi and at Prairie du
Chien built a stockade named Fort Shelby.  It was garrisoned by about sixty men.[31] News of
this movement soon came to Mackinac, and prompted the British commandant to prepare a counter-expedition.
On the seventeenth of July the force composed of five hundred and fifty men, of whom four hundred
were Indians, arrived outside the post. Immediately a summons to surrender was sent. The American
commander at first refused, but two days later agreed to capitulate providing the Indians would
be kept in check. The surrender took place on July 20th, and the captor christened the stockade
Fort McKay in honor of himself.[32]

Thus, the Indians about the Mississippi had been present at the surrender of two posts and
had participated in a massacre. British arms had been successful, and the close of the war
found British prestige very high.

The Treaty of Ghent on December 24, 1814, closed the war; and Article IX of that treaty provided
that the United States should make peace with the Indian tribes and restore to them the "possessions,
rights and privileges" which they had enjoyed before hostilities.[33] President Madison accordingly
appointed William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau as commissioners to enter into
treaties of peace with the warring tribes of the upper Mississippi and the upper Missouri.
Only with extreme difficulty was word of the negotiations sent to the tribes. The hostility
of the Indians living about the mouth of the Rock River made it necessary that the messenger
proceed to Prairie du Chien by way of the Missouri River, and then across country.[34]

Although treaties were concluded with those who did come to the council, none were eager to
negotiate. The Chippewas, Menominees, and Winnebagoes even refused to send delegations; and
the Sacs of Rock River not only refused to attend, but also showed their contempt by continually
harassing the frontier settlements during the time of the negotiations.[35] This opposition,
the commissioners reported, was due to the presence of an unusual number of British traders
among the Indians. The report closed with the opinion that "the exertion of the military power
of the Government will be necessary to secure the peace and safety of this country."[36]

For some years it had been customary for the British authorities to send presents to the Indians
on the Mississippi, and Robert Dickson had promised the natives that the practice would be
continued. But with the coming of peace this custom was not allowed by the Americans. Accordingly,
in June, 1815, word was sent to the river tribes, that all who came to the British headquarters
at Drummond Island in Lake Huron, would be supplied. By June 19th of the next year four hundred
Indians had arrived at the post--mainly Sioux. To sympathetic ears they reported that they
feared that the Americans were planning their extinction, and a confederation was being formed
to resist the building of American forts on the Indian lands. As late as 1825, of the four
thousand Indians in the habit of visiting Drummond Island, three thousand came from the region
west and southwest of Lake Huron--that is from American territory.[37] These motley processions
which trailed through the American woods, stopping to beg at the American posts, were not slow
in being reported. It did not take a vivid imagination to see that the renewal of border warfare
was inevitable.[38]

This danger was increased by the rapid development of the West following the war. Just as over
the mountain trails and down the rivers, Kentucky and Tennessee had been settled before the
war, now the States of the Old Northwest received their pioneers. Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, who
made his first trip down the Ohio at this time (1818), remarked: "I mingled in this crowd,
and, while listening to the anticipations indulged in, it seemed to me that the war had not,
in reality, been fought for 'free trade and sailors' rights' where it had commenced, but to
gain a knowledge of the world beyond the Alleghanies.... To judge by the tone of general conversation,
they meant, in their generation, to plow the Mississippi Valley from its head to its foot."[39]

The flatboats on the rivers, the crowded ferries, and the caravans crossing the prairies were
familiar scenes. When he wrote this the author was not using his imagination: it was a picture
he saw daily.[40]

The extent of this westward movement is indicated by the provisions made for the political
organization of these growing settlements. Indiana achieved statehood in 1816 and Illinois
in 1818. Across the river in Missouri the population had grown from 20,000 in 1810 to 66,000
in 1820,[41] and the weighty questions concerning her admission were being discussed in Washington.

With an expanding frontier brought into contact with hostile Indians, trouble was bound to
result. Various plans were proposed to deal with the problem. It was reported that General
Jackson would take charge of active military operations against the Indians of the upper Mississippi.[42]
One agent suggested that "three or four months' full feeding on meat and bread, even without
ardent spirit, will bring on disease, and, in six or eight months, great mortality.... I believe
more Indians might be killed with the expense of $100,000 in this way, than $1,000,000 expended
in the support of armies to go against them."[43]

Fortunately, wiser counsels than either of these prevailed to control the Indians: the control
of the fur trade was necessary. It was felt, and rightly, that much of the trouble in the West
was due to the power of the British traders. Accordingly, by an act of Congress of April 29,
1816, it was provided that "licenses to trade with the Indians within the territorial limits
of the United States shall not be granted to any but citizens of the United States, unless
by the express direction of the President of the United States, and upon such terms and conditions
as the public interest may, in his opinion, require." To carry this act into effect the president
was authorized to call upon the military force.[44]

This legislation was most opportune, since by the commercial convention of October 20, 1818,
the northern boundary was definitely agreed upon as the forty-ninth parallel westward from
the Lake of the Woods to the Rocky Mountains.[45] Ever since the negotiators of the Treaty
of Paris of 1783 had inserted a geographical impossibility by declaring that the boundary should
extend due west from the Lake of the Woods to the Mississippi, there had existed a vagueness
as to where the actual line should be drawn.[46] In 1806 the British traders thought it would
be run from the lake to the source of the river;[47] and as late as 1818 Benjamin O'Fallon
wrote from Prairie du Chien that Robert Dickson "is directed to build a fort on the highest
land between Lac du Travers and Red river, which he supposes will be the established line between
the two countries."[48] But with the boundary now defined, the area where the trade laws were
to be enforced was evident.

The method of Indian trade by foreigners was to be supplanted by an extension of the United
States trading house system. This was a group of trading houses, conducted by the government,
where the Indians could exchange their furs for goods at cost price and thus avoid both the
deceit and whiskey of the private merchant, although they were often willing to submit to the
one for the sake of the other.[49] As early as 1805 Pike had promised the Indians, in council
assembled, that the government intended to build a trading house at the mouth of the Minnesota
River.[50] The commissioners at Portage des Sioux, in 1815, had been instructed to inform the
tribes that "it is intended to establish strong posts very high up the Mississippi, and from
the Mississippi to Lake Michigan, and to open trading-houses at those posts, or other suitable
places for their accommodation."[51] In 1818 T. L. McKenny, Superintendent of Indian Trade,
recommended the building of seven additional trading houses, one of which was to be located
on the "River St. Peters, at or about its junction with the Mississippi."[52]

Thus, through the Indian department steps were being taken to inaugurate a new régime in the
upper Northwest. But Indian agents and trading houses needed the protection and administrative
arm of the military department in order to be effective. The forward movement of the military
frontier during the years succeeding the war is significant as marking a trend towards the
Americanization of a great region.

II

THE EVOLUTION OF FORT SNELLING

When the War of 1812 broke out in the Northwest, the Americans had only two advanced posts--Mackinac
and Fort Dearborn. Of these, one was captured during the hostilities, and the other was evacuated.
An attempt was made to build a post at Prairie du Chien, but it quickly passed into English
hands and remained in their possession until the news of peace had reached that frontier station.
But after the Treaty of Ghent was signed the line of the military frontier was quickly advanced
in order to safeguard the Indian agents, the trading houses, and the advancing settlements.

Fort Dearborn was re-occupied on July 4, 1815. Mackinac was transferred to American hands on
July 18, 1815. In the fall of the same year Colonel R. C. Nichols of the Eighth United States
Infantry attempted to ascend the Mississippi to Rock Island, but was compelled to pass the
winter in the vicinity of the mouth of the Des Moines River. On May 10, 1816, however, he reached
Rock Island, where the construction of Fort Armstrong was undertaken. June 21st of the same
year saw the re-occupation of the site of Fort McKay at Prairie du Chien; and Fort Crawford
soon protected this important point at the junction of the Mississippi and Wisconsin rivers.
One other point, vital in all western transportation was at the head of Green Bay at the mouth
of the Fox River. Colonel John Miller of the Third Infantry arrived at this place on August
7, 1816, and soon began the erection of Fort Howard.[53]

But the government was not content with these movements. In a report dated December 22, 1817,
the Secretary of War, J. C. Calhoun, wrote to the House of Representatives that "a board of
the most skilful officers in our service has been constituted to examine the whole line of
our frontier, and to determine on the position and extent of works that may be necessary to
the defence of the country."[54] Plans had already been made. During the summer of 1817 Major
Stephen H. Long, a topographical engineer in the United States Army, had made a journey to
the Falls of St. Anthony in a six-oared skiff and had approved the position at the mouth of
the Minnesota River as a location for a fort.[55] Other plans were soon announced. In the spring
of 1818 The Washington City Gazette stated that a fort would be built on the Missouri River
at the mouth of the Yellowstone River;[56] and a second report of the Secretary of War on December
11, 1818, indicated that the site at the mouth of the Minnesota would soon be occupied.[57]

On the tenth of February, 1819, the War Department ordered the Fifth Infantry to concentrate
at Detroit, after which it would be transported across Lake Huron and Lake Michigan, up the
Fox River,  and down the Wisconsin River to Prairie du Chien, where a part would garrison Fort
Crawford, a part would proceed to Fort Armstrong, and the remainder would ascend the Mississippi
and near the Falls of St. Anthony erect a post which would be the headquarters of the regiment.[58]
This movement was closely associated with that on the Missouri River called the Yellowstone
Expedition. Both movements were part of one system--a comprehensive attempt to possess the
northwestern frontier. The thoroughness of the plan is shown by the program outlined for the
troops for the year 1820: three forts were to be built on the Missouri River; the navigation
of that river was to be improved; roads were to be opened between the two diverging lines of
posts (those on the Missouri and those on the Mississippi); and the Fox and Wisconsin rivers
were to be connected by a canal. Thus the transportation of supplies would be facilitated,
and in case of hostilities the forts could coöperate in the military operations.[59]

The western part of this general movement was a failure. Indeed, the only result was the construction
of a post at the point then known as Council Bluff (now Fort Calhoun, Nebraska), which after
an existence of eight years was abandoned. Congress, disgusted with the management of the undertaking,
refused to vote the funds necessary for the complete fulfillment of the project.[60] Accordingly,
no permanent military post existed upon the upper Missouri until 1855, when the United States
government purchased from the American Fur Company their station called Fort Pierre and transformed
it into a military establishment.[61] The failure of the Yellowstone Expedition made more difficult
the work of Fort Snelling. The range of its influence extended to the Missouri, and for forty
years it was of more importance than even its originators had planned.

The Fifth Infantry, to which the difficult task of establishing a fort at the junction of the
Mississippi and Minnesota rivers was assigned was stationed at various places. Lieutenant Colonel
Henry Leavenworth, who was the commanding officer of the regiment, had been located at Prairie
du Chien as Superintendent of Indian Affairs.[62] Lieutenant Nathan Clark was living at Hartford,
Connecticut.[63] But by May 14th the main part of the regiment was ready to leave Detroit.
Schooners brought them through Lake Huron, the Straits of Mackinac, and across Lake Michigan
to Fort Howard on Green Bay. Captain Whistler of the Third United States Infantry, then stationed
at this post, had prepared bateaux for the use of the troops, and on June 7th the ascent of
the Fox River was commenced.[64] The Winnebago chief "Four Legs", whose village was at the
outlet of Lake Winnebago, had the custom of exacting tribute from travellers using the Fox-Wisconsin
route. When the troops of the Fifth Infantry came to the site, "Four Legs" sent the message,
"The Lake is locked." Whereupon Colonel Leavenworth, showing the messenger his rifle, replied:
"tell him, that this is the key, and I shall unlock it and go on."  Upon receiving this belligerent
reply, the chief allowed the troops to pass; and finally on June 30th the bateaux were moored
near Fort Crawford and Prairie du Chien.[65]

At Fort Crawford there was a tedious wait. Provisions, ordnance, ammunition, and recruits were
expected from St. Louis. On July 5th Major Thomas Forsyth arrived from St. Louis. He had been
ordered by the War Department to bring two thousand dollars worth of goods to the Sioux Indians
in payment for the reservation ceded by them to Pike.[66] Day after day passed. Finally, on
July 17th a certain Mr. Shaw came with news that the recruits could be expected soon. On July
31st this curt entry is made in Forsyth's journal: "no boats, no recruits, no news, nor anything
else from St. Louis." The next day Major Marston was sent with twenty-seven troops to garrison
Fort Armstrong at Rock Island; and on August 2nd Forsyth recorded: "Thank God a boat loaded
with ordnance and stores of different kinds arrived to-day, and said a provision boat would
arrive to-morrow, but no news of the recruits."[67]

Colonel Leavenworth at once made preparations to ascend the river. The two large boats that
had brought up supplies were engaged, and at eight o'clock on the morning of Sunday, August
8th, the flotilla set out--the two large boats, fourteen bateaux, the boat of Major Forsyth,
and the barge of Colonel Leavenworth. In the party were ninety-eight soldiers and twenty boatmen.
There were others also whose presence in that wild region would not be expected: Mrs. Gooding,
the wife of one of the captains; Mrs. Nathan Clark, the wife of the commissary; and little
Charlotte Ouisconsin Clark, who had been born scarcely an hour after the regiment reached Fort
Crawford. The knowledge that they were upon the last stage of their journey caused a feeling
of cheerfulness among the soldiers, and the first day they proceeded a distance of eighteen
miles.[68]

For sixteen days the boatmen poled their bateaux up the river. Once when there was a "Great
appearance of wind" the sails were hoisted. At other times the heavily loaded boats were moved
with difficulty through the shallow water. Occasionally fog and rain impeded their progress.
Bad water made half of the soldiers sick before the journey was ended; and to avoid the mosquitoes
on the river, the men preferred to sleep on the banks, although every morning there was a heavy
dew. On August 17th the lower end of Lake Pepin was reached and here a delay of several hours
occurred while the men drew provisions from the supply boats, and washed their dirty linen.[69]

Major Forsyth stopped at the Indian villages to distribute presents and to announce to the
natives the object of the coming of the troops, and the value they would derive from having
a fort in their midst. On Sunday, August 22nd, he encamped a few miles ahead of the main body
of the expedition, but by eight o'clock the next morning all the boats had come up. Impatient
to reach the end of the journey,  Major Forsyth again pushed forward and at four o'clock in
the afternoon reached the mouth of the Minnesota River. On the morning of Tuesday, August 24,
1819, Colonel Leavenworth arrived in his barge ahead of the troops and spent almost the entire
day in looking over the sites available for a camp. Finally, he decided upon a spot on the
right bank of the Minnesota River, just above its mouth. There was no rest for the troops when
their boats reached the chosen place. "They were immediately set to work in making roads up
the bank of the river, cutting down trees, etc."[70]

If the soldiers had any spare time in their labors in which to become interested in their surroundings,
there was novelty in everything about them. During the next few days all the nearby chiefs
came to call upon their new neighbors: they left satisfied with the presents and the whiskey
which they had received. On Saturday a party ascended to the Falls of St. Anthony; and on Sunday
a visit was made to the Indian villages up the Minnesota River. It was on Monday that Major
Forsyth began his return trip, and as the supplies in store were few and the long-expected
recruits were needed for the erection of the camp buildings, Colonel Leavenworth set out with
him for Prairie du Chien. On September 1st they met on Lake Pepin two boats and a bateau with
one hundred and twenty soldiers on board. But Colonel Leavenworth continued to Prairie du Chien,
where he remained some time to urge on any boats which might arrive. On September 5th the one
hundred and twenty recruits landed at the new camp.[71]

Log cabins and a stockade were erected while the party still lived in the boats on the river.
By November the temporary barracks were ready for occupation. Looking forward to a pleasant
winter, the name "Cantonment New Hope" was applied to the embryo fort. The more scientific
among the men examined the country round about, and saw in the hills visions of mines of precious
metals. "Would not the employment of the troops in the manufacture of Copper and Iron be advantageous
to the government?", wrote one of these energetic soldiers. But the succeeding months were
not to give an opportunity for such occupations.[72]

Added to the natural monotony of a wilderness post, there was homesickness and suffering during
the first winter. The quarters that had been built were inadequate for protection from the
cold of that climate. "Once during that memorable six months", runs the account of one of the
inhabitants of Cantonment New Hope, "the roof of our cabin blew off, and the walls seemed about
to fall in. My father, sending my mother and brother to a place of safety, held up the chimney
to prevent a total downfall; while the baby, who had been pushed under the bed in her cradle,
lay there.... until the wind subsided, when, upon being drawn out from her hiding-place, she
evinced great pleasure at the commotion, and seemed to take it all as something designed especially
for her amusement." That baby lived to recall the incident almost seventy years later.[73]

Toward the close of the winter there came sickness, chiefly on account of a lack of proper
provisions. Late in the fall Lieutenant Oliver had left Prairie du Chien with supplies in a
keel boat. But the river froze and the boat was unable to progress farther than the vicinity
of Hastings, Minnesota. Here it was necessary to keep a guard all winter to protect the food
from the Indians and the wolves. The Indians refused to sell them game; no vegetables could
be purchased; and the bread was "two inches in the barrels thick with mould".[74] With such
food it is no wonder that scurvy, the dreaded disease of all frontier posts, broke out among
the troops. Forty soldiers died before the progress of the disease was arrested by home-made
remedies and groceries brought up by the sutler.[75]

This visitation of disease left a profound impression upon the survivors. Henry H. Sibley,
who had often spoken with those who passed through the weary months of suffering and sickness,
wrote that "scurvy broke out in a most malignant form, and raged so violently that, for a few
days, garrison duty was suspended, there being barely well men enough in the command to attend
to the sick, and to the interment of the dead. So sudden were the attacks, that soldiers in
apparent good health when they went to bed, were found dead in the morning. One man who was
relieved from his tour of sentinel duty, and stretched himself upon the bench of the guard
room,  four hours after, when he was called upon to resume his post, was discovered to be lifeless."[76]

Thinking that much of the sickness was caused by the unhealthful location, Colonel Leavenworth,
on May 5, 1820, moved the soldiers to a place on the west bank of the Mississippi north of
the Minnesota where there was a great spring of cold water. Here the troops were quartered
in tents--naming their community "Camp Cold Water".[77] The immediate need was the erection
of the permanent post. Colonel Leavenworth chose for the site a position three hundred yards
west of the crest of the cliff. Some material was brought to this place, but no building was
done. In August Colonel Leavenworth was superseded in command by Colonel Josiah Snelling, who
located the position at the extreme point of land between the Mississippi and Minnesota rivers.[78]
The work of erecting the buildings was done by the soldiers, it being customary at that time
to pay the soldiers fifteen cents a day in addition to their regular pay for this extra work.[79]

Steps were taken during the summer of 1820 to obtain the necessary material. A saw mill was
needed to make the lumber with which the interior of the buildings would be finished and the
furniture constructed. As the water in Minnehaha Creek was very low that year, it was decided
to erect the mill at the Falls of St. Anthony. Some men were sent up the Mississippi River
to Rum River to examine the timber, and during the winter of 1820-1821 a party of soldiers
was employed in cutting logs and dragging them to the river bank. With the coming of spring
the logs were floated down to the Falls of St. Anthony, where they were sawed into lumber and
then hauled to the fort by teams.[80]

The progress made on the building was slow. On the tenth of September, 1820, the cornerstone
was laid.[81] More than a year later, on November 7, 1821, Colonel Snelling wrote to the Indian
agent, Lawrence Taliaferro, that "nothing new has occurred since my return excepting that the
other stone barrack is up & the rafters on."[82] The fort was partially occupied, probably
in the fall of 1822, before all the surrounding wall had been completed.[83] But it is evident
that most of the fort was finished by July, 1823, for at that time the troops erected the Indian
Council House.[84]

In the meantime other events had been occurring. On July 31, 1820, Governor Cass of Michigan
Territory, who had been on an exploring expedition to the upper Mississippi, passed down the
river and remained with the troops until the morning of August 2nd. A council was held with
the Indians, during which a peace was made between the Sioux and the Chippewas. That the garrison
had been busy at duties other than erecting buildings is evident from the fact that Governor
Cass found ninety acres planted with corn and potatoes and wheat. From the garden green peas
had been obtained as early as June 15th, and green corn on July 20th.[85]

In accordance with the plans outlined for the year 1820 it was proposed to open a road between
Council Bluff and the new post on the upper Mississippi. To survey the route Captain Stephen
Watts Kearny led a party which consisted of four other officers, fifteen soldiers, four servants,
an Indian guide and his wife and papoose, eight mules, and seven horses. The route led from
Council Bluff across what is now the northern and northwestern part of the State of Iowa to
Lake Pepin, and then along the Mississippi to the new post. From July 25th to July 29th they
remained with Leavenworth's men, visiting the Falls of St. Anthony, examining the country,
and on July 26th going with Lieutenant Green and Miss Gooding to the east side of the Mississippi.
Here Lieutenant Green and Miss Gooding were married by Colonel Leavenworth, who as Indian agent
for the "Northwest Territory" could perform his duties on the east bank of the river, but not
on the west, which was in the Missouri Territory.[86]

The fact that the Falls of St. Anthony constituted the most noticeable landmark of the vicinity
led to the application of its name to the military works. The first official inspection of
Fort St. Anthony occurred some time between May 13, 1824, and June 13, 1824. General Winfield
Scott, as the inspector, was received with all the honor and entertainment that the frontier
post could provide. He left favorably impressed with the work that had been done.

"I wish to suggest to the general-in-chief," wrote General Scott in his
report, "and through him to the War Department, the propriety of calling
this work Fort Snelling, as a just compliment to the meritorious
 officer under whom it has been erected. The present name is
foreign to all our associations, and is, besides, geographically
incorrect, as the work stands at the junction of the Mississippi and
Saint Peter's rivers, eight miles below the great falls of the
Mississippi, called after Saint Anthony. Some few years since the
Secretary of War directed that the work at the Council Bluffs should be
called Fort Atkinson in compliment to the valuable services of General
Atkinson on the upper Missouri. The above proposition is made on the
same principle."

A general order on January 7, 1825, directed that the suggested change should be made. Thereupon
Fort Snelling began its career as the guardian of the Northwest.[87]

III

FORTY YEARS OF FRONTIER DUTY

It was not the intention of the War Department that the influence of the frontier military
post should be limited by the range of the guns mounted upon its walls. The post was to be
the center of the Indian life for those tribes that dwelt in the vicinity. At the same time
expeditions, the base of which was to be at the fort, were to carry the authority of the government
out upon the wild Indian lands, and the frontier settlements were to look to the soldiers for
protection.[88]

How, in its origin, Fort Snelling became part of a comprehensive system for the protection
of the frontier, has been detailed. The events of the forty years that followed indicate very
clearly the wisdom of the men who chose the site. Every phase of frontier duty was performed
by the troops stationed at the mouth of the Minnesota River; and although these tasks often
took them hundreds of miles from the post, and although they often coöperated with men from
other forts, yet these expeditions may well be considered as part of the history of Fort Snelling.
They were a test of the training received on the parade ground, and the successful accomplishment
of many a difficult duty shows that the post was fulfilling the objects of those who built it.

Prior to 1848 the governmental organization in the jurisdiction of which Fort Snelling was
located was very weak. When first erected in 1819 the fort was in the Territory of Missouri
(1812-1821). Then followed a number of years in which it was in unorganized territory (1821-1834).
The Territory of Michigan (1834-1836), the Territory of Wisconsin (1836-1838), and the Territory
of Iowa (1838-1846) successively had jurisdiction over it; while in 1849 it fell within the
newly-organized Territory of Minnesota. Lying far from the seats of government, in a region
of wandering traders and red men, the fort became the exponent of the government--the only
symbol of governmental restriction in a region almost entirely without law.

During the first years of its existence while the buildings were being erected and the fort
was making its place in the Indian life and the fur trade of the surrounding region, the frontier
was comparatively quiet. The first outbreak occurred in Illinois and Wisconsin, where the Winnebagoes
were constantly coming into contact with the lead miners about Galena. During the summer of
1826 rumors came to Fort Snelling of the hostility of this tribe, and Colonel Snelling thought
it prudent to reënforce the garrison of Fort Crawford at Prairie du Chien. Three companies
of the Fifth Infantry were sent away from Fort Snelling on the afternoon of August 18th under
the command of Captain Wilcox.[89] Although no actual conflict occurred, the continued uneasiness
felt because of the presence of the Winnebagoes led the authorities to remove all the troops
from Fort Crawford to the upper post in the fall of that year.[90]

The lack of soldiers among them intensified the unruly spirit in the Winnebagoes. In June of
the next year two keel boats, the "General Ashley" and the "O. H. Perry", which were carrying
supplies to Fort Snelling noticed an unfriendly feeling among the Sioux at Wabasha's village.
Fifty warriors with their faces painted black and with black streaks on their blankets visited
the "O. H. Perry", but refused to shake hands. Apprehensive of danger on the return journey,
Colonel Snelling furnished the crews with guns and cartridges before the descent was commenced.[91]

There soon arrived at Fort Snelling a letter from John Marsh, the
sub-agent at Prairie du Chien. It stated that rumors were current that
Prairie du Chien was to be attacked and that the Sioux and Winnebagoes
threatened to kill Taliaferro "and any American that they can find at a
distance from the Fort". The letter closed with the request that steps
be taken for the defense of Prairie du Chien.[92] No doubt preparations
were commenced immediately; but they were hastened by news which soon
came up the river. On June 26th the Winnebago chief, Red Bird, with
three of his men had attacked a farm house near Prairie du Chien and
obtained the scalp of a child. Returning to their village, they had seen
 the keel boats coming down the river. With their fighting blood
up they attacked the "O. H. Perry", and in a battle which lasted several
hours they killed two of the crew and lost seven of their own warriors.
The report of this attack, together with the murder near Prairie du
Chien, spread consternation among the white men.[93]

Without delay Colonel Snelling with four companies started down the river.[94] A few days after
reaching Prairie du Chien, he was reënforced by troops brought up from St. Louis by Colonel
Atkinson. It was thought necessary that Fort Snelling should be maintained during the critical
period, and as it was short of provisions, Colonel Snelling was ordered back to his post with
a supply of flour, and directed to procure boats which could be used in the pursuit of the
Winnebagoes up the Wisconsin River. On the 16th of August Colonel Snelling arrived at his post,
and on the following day Major Fowle started downstream with four other companies of the Fifth
Infantry in two keel boats and nine mackinac boats, arriving at Fort Crawford on August 21st.
The Indians, overawed by the rapidity of these military movements and the size of the force
sent against them, immediately became peaceable. As a precaution, however, Major Fowle was
kept at Fort Crawford, and the post was provisioned for a year.[95]

During the next twenty years the force maintained at Fort Snelling was small, and the garrison
was occupied in routine tasks, the regulation of Indian affairs, and the fur trade. At the
time of the Black Hawk War there was quiet about Fort Snelling, and Major Taliaferro offered
his services and those of the Sioux warriors in the campaign against the Sacs and Foxes. But
the government did not think it advisable to formally accept the proffered help, although a
number of the Sioux did take part in pursuing the remnants of Sacs who succeeded in crossing
the river.[96]

In June, 1848, the company of infantry stationed at Fort Snelling received an urgent call to
come to Wabasha's Prairie--near Winona, Minnesota. The Winnebago Indians were being transferred
from their former home in the Turkey Valley region in Iowa to a new reservation obtained for
them from the Chippewas. But when the Prairie was reached, the Winnebagoes visited with Wabasha
and he sold it to them for a home. When Captain Seth Eastman arrived from Fort Snelling he
was put in charge of the military forces which had been hastily brought together to force the
Winnebagoes to continue their march. There were volunteers from Crawford County, Wisconsin,
dragoons from Fort Atkinson, Iowa, and the infantry from Fort Snelling, besides sixty armed
teamsters.

These military forces lay encamped, separated from the Indians by a slough. In the morning
a deputation of Indians came to ask the meaning of the martial appearance of the whites when
all they desired was a council. This suggestion of a council was quickly assented to, but the
Indians approached with such a rush and with such blood-curdling yells that the cannon were
loaded and the soldiers stood ready to fire. During the council the Winnebagoes refused to
move until one small band gave in to the entreaties of the agent and were taken up to Fort
Snelling. This was an opening wedge, for when the steamboat returned 1700 were ready to move.
The total journey of three hundred and ten miles from the old to the new home occupied the
time from June 8th to July 30th, 1848.[97]

By the next summer they were ready to return--anywhere, but especially to Wisconsin, their
earliest home.[98] In July the whole tribe, stimulated by whiskey, started; but Governor Ramsey
called on Colonel Loomis of Fort Snelling for aid, and a force under Captain Monroe proceeded
to the north where their presence aided in quieting the disturbers. Again, on September 9th
about a hundred had approached within sixteen miles of St. Paul, when Captain Page and forty
men from Fort Snelling frightened them so much that they fled into the swamps and returned
home quietly. Smaller parties were captured on the river and sent back under a military guard.[99]
Not all the efforts, however, were successful. It was reported that one evening in November
over a hundred red men floated down quietly under the very guns of Fort Snelling, and two weeks
later the newspaper accounts tell of three hundred Winnebagoes in camp near the mouth of the
Black River.[100] The need for a company of dragoons at Fort Snelling was imperative. The next
summer it was obtained,  and in 1851 this military force was described as being "an indispensable
and invaluable auxiliary."[101] Not until 1855 was the Winnebago spirit of migration broken,
and then only after a new reservation had been obtained for them at the mouth of the Blue Earth
River.[102]

In his report of November 25, 1844, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs called attention to
the fact that no longer was there any need of entertaining fears on account of the visits made
by American Indians to the Canadian posts, as these pilgrimages were indulged in only by a
few "worthless vagrants". But an evil of a different character was imminent. Twice a year hundreds
of Red River half-breeds--bois brulés--left their homes on the British side of the international
boundary to hunt buffalo on the American plains which bordered on the Missouri River. Here
they came into contact with Indians who naturally resented this intrusion upon their hunting
grounds. During the summer of 1844 a half-breed had been killed by a party of Yankton Sioux,
and the invaders had retaliated by killing eight Sioux of another band. This so inflamed the
Indians that they went upon the war path and without stopping to reason about the matter, they
attacked a party of whites whom they met on Otter Tail Lake.[103]

To hunt the buffalo freely, even on foreign soil, seemed to the bois brulés to be their natural
right. On the pemmican which they made from these buffaloes they depended for their winter's
food. Five hundred and forty carts trailed out of Pembina on the summer hunt of 1820, and from
year to year the number increased until in 1840 there were 1210 carts, accompanied by 1630
people. Nowhere else in the new world at least, was there such a hunting party. Thirteen hundred
and seventy-five buffalo tongues were counted as the result of one day's hunt in 1840.[104]
It was estimated that every year these Red River hunters killed twenty thousand buffaloes on
American soil.[105]

In this there was a real grievance. Though small in itself the incident could easily develop
into a war when there were other factors urging in the same direction.[106] The exact condition
of affairs on the border was so confused that the United States made occasional military displays
in order to impress the invaders and also to satisfy its own curiosity. The first of these
expeditions occurred in 1845. Captain Edwin V. Sumner, then in command at Fort Atkinson, in
the Iowa country, visited the Red River of the North during the summer of that year with Companies
B and I of the First Regiment of Dragoons. But the difficulty was that while the invaders would
promise to remain off American soil and would retire as soon as a military force appeared,
yet no sooner would the troops depart than they would be back again on the hunting grounds.[107]

When complaints continued to come in the Adjutant General proposed to establish a post on the
Red River. As a preliminary movement Brevet Major Samuel Woods, Captain of the Sixth Infantry
located at Fort Snelling, was ordered to proceed with Company D of the dragoons to the border
and make recommendations to the War Department in regard to a suitable site. On June 6, 1849,
the start was made from Fort Snelling, and the weary march directed to the northwest over the
swollen rivers and the marshy swamps with the mosquitoes a constant torment, until on August
1st the soldiers reached the collection of Indian lodges and the trading establishment that
was known as Pembina. During the twenty-five days spent at this point observations were made
of the topographical features of the land, the character of the Indians, and the pursuits of
the half-breeds.

Major Woods urged the American Indians and half-breeds to prevent by force the invasions, promising
that the United States would support them. But it would be useless, he reported, to build a
fort at Pembina unless at least two hundred fifty men were stationed there. It would be better
to concentrate a large force at Fort Snelling, from whence expeditions could be made into the
Indian country in all directions as necessity might arise. The return to the fort occupied
twenty-three and a half days, and on September 18th the total journey of almost a thousand
miles was completed with the loss of only one horse and one mule.[108]

During the next few years conditions remained unchanged, and as the settlement of the Minnesota
and Mississippi valleys was pushing the Indian tribes farther to the westward, more and bitter
conflicts with the half-breeds would be liable to occur. In order to give a final warning to
the foreign hunters and to select a site for a post which could serve the double purpose of
protecting the frontier settlements from the Indians and the Indians from the foreigners, Lieutenant
Colonel C. F. Smith of the Tenth Infantry was ordered on June 9, 1856, to tour the region with
Companies B and F. As far as the Goose River, in the North Dakota country, the route followed
from Fort Snelling was practically the same as that of Major Woods; but instead of proceeding
by the usual route northward to Pembina, a detour was made to Lake Mini-Waken (Devil's Lake).
On the return the less travelled and more difficult road on the east side of the Red River
was followed.

On August 19th the trail of the annual hunting party was crossed; but the nine hundred men,
women, and children who had made the trip had returned to their homes three weeks before, and
kept away from the military party. Since no warning could be given to them in person, a notice
written in both English and French was circulated in Pembina and in the British settlements
to the north. But the natives obtained sweet revenge when Colonel Smith attempted to buy from
the farmers in the vicinity of the principal trading post--Fort Garry--a sufficient supply
of oats for his troops. The half-breeds declined to bring the grain, giving as their excuse
that they did not desire to trespass on American soil when warned to keep off.[109]

Not only to the north did the troops from Fort Snelling make expeditions. The wide range of
its influence is illustrated by the task which occupied the attention of its soldiers during
the summer of 1850. On August 8, 1849, Governor Ansel Briggs of Iowa forwarded to the Secretary
of War a petition, signed by over a hundred citizens of Iowa County, in which they complained
of the presence of a great number of Indians who were destroying the timber, removing the section
corners, and even demanding rent from some of the settlers--claiming that they owned the land
on the Iowa River.[110]

To investigate conditions and to report upon what steps would be necessary to remove the cause
of complaint, Brevet Major Samuel Woods, stationed at Fort Snelling, was ordered to proceed
to the State of Iowa. On the twenty-fifth of September he left for Prairie du Chien, and arriving
here set out for Fort Atkinson, thinking that probably the Winnebagoes were the Indians causing
the trouble. But he discovered that many of them had just set out for the upper Mississippi,
and those remaining behind were so few in number that they could cause little inconvenience
to the frontier. From Fort Atkinson Major Woods passed southward through Fayette, Buchanan,
Linn, and Johnson counties to Iowa City. At this time the region traversed was sparsely settled.
For a hundred miles south of Fort Atkinson there were only two settlements--one, consisting
of a few families, high upon the Volga River, and the other larger in numbers clustered about
some mills on the Wapsipinicon River. About fifteen miles north of Marion the inhabitants became
more numerous. Here were found Indians--Sacs and Foxes, Pottawattomies, and Winnebagoes--but
they were not hostile and their presence caused no objection.

It was at Iowa City that Major Woods heard that the inhabitants on the Iowa, English, and Skunk
Rivers had been making the loudest complaints. Accordingly he started up the Iowa River to
the vicinity of Marengo. Here he learned that a few days before the settlers near the town,
becoming tired of having Indians about them, armed themselves and by force broke up the Indian
encampment. Only one lodge remained, that on the lands of a farmer who gave permission to three
of the red men to live under his protection.

The total number of Indians, Major Woods reported, consisted of five or six hundred Sacs and
Foxes, Pottawattomies, and Winnebagoes. Among these the Sacs and Foxes were the most numerous.
They had by treaty sold their lands some years earlier and had been removed to the Missouri
River; but they preferred their old home, and so had returned in straggling bands, sometimes
going back to the Missouri to get their annuities. The Winnebagoes were those who had escaped
when the tribe was being transferred to the new reservation north of Fort Snelling.

The complaints against these Indians were that they destroyed a great deal of timber, removed
the surveyors' landmarks, killed the game, annoyed the settlers, and that when intoxicated
they were an actual source of danger. Believing that these reasons were well founded, Major
Woods advised that the Indians be removed as soon as possible. Conditions did not demand a
winter campaign, but preparations should be made for the removal during the early summer.[111]

In the early part of April of the next year it was known that two companies of infantry from
Fort Snelling, and one company of dragoons from Fort Gaines had been detailed for this task.[112]
On the twelfth of May the "Highland Mary" left Fort Snelling, having on board the infantry
and cavalry and part of the equipment, while in tow was a barge full of horses and mules.[113]
The soldiers were disembarked at Dubuque, whence they followed the trail to Iowa City, along
which they "saw nothing except the ravages of California emigration." Proceeding to the vicinity
of Marengo, a council was held with the Indians. But the latter marched into the council ten
abreast carrying their war clubs and manifesting such a hostile disposition that it was impossible
for Major Woods to accomplish anything.[114]

For a while it seemed that active military operations would be necessary. The Indians becoming
convinced that this would be the result, and fearing that all the expenses of the campaign
would be deducted from the annuities of the tribe, suggested to two men of the neighborhood--a
Mr. Steen and a Mr. Greenly--that they would go back to their homes if these two men could
be appointed their guides. When Mr. Steen and Mr. Greenly broached the subject to Major Woods
he considered it thoughtfully, and finally an arrangement was made. For every Indian who left
the Iowa River and was turned over to their agent west of the Missouri River, the government
was to pay three dollars and fifty cents. Five hundred dollars was to be advanced to pay for
the provisions of the party. Upon June 6th a second council was held with the Indians, during
which Major Woods impressed upon Chief Poweshiek and his men the necessity of their returning
and the advisability of their doing it peaceably.[115]

During the month of July the Indians started upon their journey. For several days they encamped
near Fort Des Moines, and on July 16th seventy of the warriors, armed and painted, paraded
on horseback through the streets of the town to the public square where for an hour they danced
for the amusement of the two or three hundred interested spectators in the frontier town.[116]

These events made necessary a change in the plans of the troops. Company E of the Sixth Infantry
remained at their camp on the Iowa River for some time, but upon the last day of July set out
under the command of Major Woods for a site on the Des Moines River which had been chosen by
the War Department as the location of a new military post. On August 23, 1850, the troops arrived
at the designated place and began the erection of a fort which they named Fort Clarke in honor
of Colonel Clarke the commanding officer of the Sixth Infantry. The name, however, was soon
changed to Fort Dodge.

The company of dragoons was occupied during August and September in making a tour of the western
part of the State of Iowa, and it was not until October that the cavalry company and the other
infantry company returned to their station at Fort Snelling.[117]

Occupation for the company of dragoons was furnished during the next summer when Governor Ramsey
was sent to Pembina to draw up a treaty with the Pillager band of Chippewa Indians. On August
18, 1851, the party set out from Fort Snelling. Besides the Governor and a number of gentlemen
who accompanied him, the party consisted of twenty-five dragoons, and eight French-Canadian
and half-breed drivers who had charge of six baggage wagons and several light Red River carts.
The march was very difficult and the dragoons were kept busy repairing the roads over the swamp
lands and dragging with ropes the heavy wagons over the quickly made causeways. The treaty
which was made after this difficult journey was not ratified by the Senate.[118]

The wonderful expansion of the Nation, which occurred in the latter half of the fifth decade
of the century, turned all eyes toward the fertile valleys and the mountains of fabulous wealth
on the Pacific Coast. Even before the acquisition of this territory some visionary minds had
pictured it bound to the United States, if not by political ties, at least by bonds of steel.[119]
The Oregon treaty of 1846 brought part of the coveted land under the jurisdiction of the United
States, and the necessity of a railroad to the Pacific was soon realized. But sectional interests
prevented agreement upon any certain route, and it was decided to survey the most promising
and choose the one agreed upon by the engineers. Accordingly, the army appropriation bill of
1853 provided $150,000 for this purpose.[120]

Isaac I. Stevens, the newly appointed Governor of Washington Territory, led the party which
examined the country between the parallels of forty-seven and forty-nine degrees north latitude--called
the Northern Pacific Survey. He left Washington, D. C, on May 9, 1853, and reached St. Paul
on May 27th. According to his instructions he was authorized to call upon one sergeant, two
corporals, one musician, and sixteen privates of Company D First Dragoons, who were still stationed
at Fort Snelling.[121] Captain Gardiner, who had preceded his leader up the river, had selected
the escort and collected the party on May 24th in Camp Pierce--a temporary encampment located
three miles northwest of the fort.[122] Early in June camp was broken and the start for the
far West was made, at first, over the Red River Trail, and then across the prairies to Fort
Union, where on August 1st they were joined by others who had been sent up the Missouri with
supplies. Fort Benton was reached on September 1st There they remained until the twelfth of
the month when Lieutenant Saxton, leading a similar party eastward from Vancouver, arrived.
Thus a survey from the Mississippi to the Pacific had been completed.[123]

On the journey the entire party had been divided into small groups, who conducted surveys and
explorations in various directions. To each of these groups were detailed a few of the dragoons,
who were in all respects an integral part of the expedition and not merely a guard for protection.
Accordingly, no special mention of their work was made in the report.[124]

After thirty years, the distinction of being the most northwestern post in the upper Mississippi
region was lost by Fort Snelling. Other military stations were erected, and thereafter many
of its former activities were conducted from these stations on the extreme frontier. Yet in
everything contributed by these newer posts, the older had a part; accounts of them reveal
their dependence on Fort Snelling, the parent post.

As early as 1844 the Secretary of War had reported that plans were being made to erect two
new forts between Lake Superior and the River St. Peter's.[125] But nothing was done at this
time. By a treaty of October 13, 1846, the Winnebagoes living on the "Neutral Ground" in the
Turkey River Valley of the Iowa country agreed to exchange this reservation for one "north
of St. Peter's and west of the Mississippi Rivers".[126] By treaties in the following August,
the Chippewas ceded to the government a tract lying south of the Crow Wing River and west of
the Mississippi River, and north and east of the so-called Sioux-Chippewa boundary line.[127]
This was the area agreed on by the government as being suitable for the Winnebagoes. In view
of the reputation of unruliness possessed by this tribe, and the fact that they were to be
placed between the warring tribes--the Sioux and the Chippewas--the establishment of a post
on the reservation was thought desirable.

The transfer of the tribe took place during the summer of 1848; and in the same fall Brigadier
General George M. Brooke of St. Louis, accompanied by a squadron of dragoons, chose a point
opposite the Nokay River as a desirable location.[128] This company and a company of the Sixth
Infantry from Fort Snelling were employed in building the fort, and when cold weather prevented
further operations, they were withdrawn to Fort Snelling, where the winter was passed.[129]
In the spring the troops returned, and Fort Gaines--rechristened Fort Ripley--was occupied
on the thirteenth of April, 1849.[130]

But this post alone was unable to keep the Winnebagoes in check. They celebrated the first
fourth of July by attacking a frontier store and "causing one gentleman to escape en dishabille
to the woods, where he danced to the tune of the mosquitoes during some three days and nights."[131]
Again and again reports of riotous revels and rumors of impending outbreaks caused help to
be sent from Fort Snelling to assist the troops higher up the river.[132] In the spring of
1857 the fort was abandoned, but Indian disturbances during the summer caused a detachment
to be sent from the older post. These troops remained at that point until in the summer of
1858 they were transferred to the newly founded Fort Abercrombie.[133]

The treaties of Traverse des Sioux and Mendota, concluded in 1851, concentrated the Sioux Indians
on a long irregular reservation along the upper Minnesota River.[134] The Indians were not
transferred until the summer of 1853, but in the fall of the previous year the need of a post
among so many half civilized people, placed in a small territory, was obvious. Accordingly,
Colonel Francis Lee, commandant at Fort Snelling, and Captain Dana of the quartermaster's department,
escorted by a troop of dragoons, selected a suitable site on the north side of the Minnesota
River, a dozen miles upstream from the town of New Ulm.

On February 24, 1853, seven privates of Company D of the First Dragoons, and two sergeants
and thirteen privates of the Sixth Infantry were sent to the location to begin the erection
of the fort. In April the dragoons were ordered to return to Fort Snelling and Companies C
and K of the Sixth Infantry went up the river under the command of Captain James Monroe and
became part of the permanent garrison of newly-founded Fort Ridgely. One other company came
up from Fort Dodge--the post in Iowa which was abandoned with this withdrawal.[135]

Colonel C. F. Smith, who led the expedition from Fort Snelling to the Red River during the
summer of 1856, was instructed to recommend a site for a post. His choice of Graham's Point
on the Red River was accepted; and here, in the fall of 1857, Colonel John J. Abercrombie constructed
the fort which was named in his honor. Colonel Smith, writing from Fort Snelling, gave among
his reasons for the choice of Graham's Point "the additional advantage of greater facility
for receiving stores from the depot here".[136]

With the building of these posts, Fort Snelling lost much of its importance. The garrison was
small and the fort was almost nothing more than a depot for supplying the more advanced forts
with food, clothing, and ammunition.[137] With the decline of its military position, the idea
became prevalent that some day it would be abandoned entirely, and the land thrown open to
settlement.

The neighboring cities of St. Paul, Minneapolis, and St. Anthony were in the throes of real
estate speculation. There were some who saw in Fort Snelling a site more advantageous than
any of these. "It is a position which has attracted also a good deal of attention on account
of its superior beauty of location, its agricultural advantages, and its more notable advantages
for a town site", said Mr. Morrill during a debate on the floor of the House of Representatives.
"Whatever witnesses in this case may have differed upon as to other matters, they nearly all
agree that, as a point for a town site, it possesses superior advantages over any other in
that part of the country."[138]

Successful efforts were made to secure this site. On June 6, 1857, Mr. William King Heiskell,
a commissioner appointed by the Secretary of War, sold to Mr. Franklin Steele, who was acting
for himself and three others, the entire reservation for $90,000. The President approved the
act on the second of July. Other parties who were interested in securing the site were not
aware that the sale was to be made until everything had been accomplished.[139]

Immediately there arose the cry of graft: the Republicans saw in the transaction the corruption
of the existing Democratic régime. A committee was appointed by the House of Representatives
to investigate the matter, and the testimony which they took covers three hundred and seven
pages. Some witnesses said that the post should have been retained for military purposes; others
insisted that there was no such need. Some said that the site was admirable for a city; a few
stated that it possessed no such advantages. Some said that it was necessary as a supply station
for the upper posts; others insisted that these posts could be supplied more cheaply by a direct
route.[140]

Bitter debates marked the consideration of the report. The objects, character, and ability
of the witnesses were questioned. One member of the House said that "Fort Snelling is a very
elegant appanage to very elegant gentlemen, who have a very elegant place for parade and show."[141]
Another remarked that "the officers at Fort Snelling were opposed to the sale and it was natural
that they should be. They had a beautiful place of residence, they had the most comfortable
quarters, and a superabundance of stores for their subsistence. There they were living upon
the fat of the land, without anything under God's heaven to do. Society was near at hand in
a city populous, and furnishing all the luxuries of life. They of course did not want to surrender
such quarters and such comforts for the hardships and trials of a frontier station."[142]

Finally, on June second the whole matter was laid on the table. On May 27, 1858, the troops
had been withdrawn,[143] and on July 19, 1858, the quartermaster turned the buildings over
to Mr. Steele. But with the opening of the Civil War Fort Snelling was used by the government
as a training station, and after the war it was continued as a permanent post. Mr. Steele had
been unable to pay the entire $90,000, and as he claimed rent at the rate of $2000 a month
for the time it had been used by the government, the matter was again taken up. It was finally
adjusted in an agreement whereby Mr. Steele retained the greater part of the land, and the
government kept the buildings and 1521.20 acres surrounding the fort. Later some of the land
was re-purchased from Mr. Steele.[144]

The history of Old Fort Snelling closes with the removal of the troops in 1858. The story of
its use during the Civil War, of the part it played during the Sioux massacre of 1862, of its
influence throughout the West during the years when the headquarters of the Department of Dakota
were located within its walls, of the Officers' Training Camp established during the summer
of 1917, lies outside the scope of this volume. The life of the new Fort Snelling revives the
traditions of patriotism, loyalty, and sacrifice, which have centered about the post since
that day in August, 1819, which witnessed its beginning.

IV

LORDS OF THE NORTH

An old settler, speaking of the expulsion of the squatters on the military reservation remarked:
"At that time, and both before and since, the commanding officers of the fort were the lords
of the north. They ruled supreme. The citizens in the neighborhood of the fort were liable
at any time to be thrust into the guard-house. While the chief of the fort was the king, the
subordinate officers were the princes, and persons have been deprived of their liberty and
imprisoned by those tyrants for the most trivial wrong, or some imaginary offense."[145] This
statement is doubtless rather extreme; but the fact remains that the fort was the only agency
of government in the region, and so the commanding officer was indeed the supreme ruler in
so far as he directed the policy and activities of the post.

Interest in Old Fort Snelling is not primarily in the logs and stones which made up its building,
but in the men and women who lived within its walls. Many were the lives influenced by a residence
in its barracks. Characters were formed by the stern rigors of frontier service. Far from busy
cities, in the tiresome routine of army life, men were being trained who were to be leaders
in the political and military life of the Nation. Others never rose to a higher position; but
they command attention because in their faithful performance of daily duties, year after year,
they were quietly helping to make the history of the Northwest. It is impossible to consider
every man who might be classed among the "Lords of the North", but a review of the careers
of a few of them indicates the type of men whose natural ability was supplemented by the self-confidence
and the grim determination which are the products of frontier service.[146]

The memory of the man who led the troops to the mouth of the Minnesota River in 1819 is commemorated
by a fort and a city in another State. The trials which he endured during that first winter
at Cantonment New Hope were only harbingers of greater difficulties which were to bring to
him the death of a frontier martyr. Although he had been educated for the lawyer's profession,
Henry Leavenworth raised a company of volunteers in Delaware County, New York, in 1812, and
was elected its captain. He served under General Winfield Scott and won honors for distinguished
service at the Battle of Chippewa and at Niagara Falls. After the war he continued in the army,
being appointed lieutenant colonel of the Fifth United States Infantry on February 10, 1818.
After conducting the troops up the Mississippi River in 1819 and remaining through the winter,
he was superseded by Colonel Snelling.

Expeditions and Indian duties occupied his attention during the next few years, and in May,
1827, he established "Cantonment Leavenworth" on the west bank of the Missouri River. On February
8, 1832, the name was changed to Fort Leavenworth. During a campaign against the Pawnee Indians,
who were harassing the caravans of the Santa Fé traders, Colonel Leavenworth was taken sick
with fever and died on July 21, 1834, in a hospital wagon at Cross Timbers in Indian Territory.
The body was wrapped in spices and sent by way of St. Louis, New Orleans, and New York City,
to Delhi, New York, where it remained until in 1902 it was reinterred in the national cemetery
at Fort Leavenworth. A granite shaft some twelve feet high marks his resting-place.[147]

The monument to the man under whose direction the fort was built is the modern military establishment
named Fort Snelling. The erection of this fort was the last achievement of a life which, though
comparatively brief, had already accomplished much. Josiah Snelling was born in Boston, Massachusetts,
in 1782. His first commission was as a first lieutenant in the Fourth Infantry and bears the
date of May 3, 1808. In the Battle of Tippecanoe on November 7, 1811, he commanded one of the
companies that were attacked in their camp in the early morning. An attempt was made by a company
of dragoons to drive off the groups of Indians whose fire was the heaviest, but the officer
who was leading was wounded and the attempt failed. "The Indians",  reported General Harrison,
"were, however, immediately and gallantly dislodged from their advantageous position by Captain
Snelling, at the head of his company."[148] During the War of 1812 he served with Hull's army
about Detroit, and when the fort was surrendered he was taken a prisoner and brought to Canada.
But he was exchanged and ordered to Plattsburg, and later was sent to Fort Erie on the staff
of General George Izard. At the close of the war he was retained as lieutenant colonel of the
Sixth Infantry and was stationed at Plattsburg for four years.[149]

Bravery and impetuosity were two of Colonel Snelling's traits. During the campaign about Detroit
he was married to Abigail Hunt by the chaplain of General Hull's army. The general and other
officers were present. An account of the life of his wife states that "the ceremony had been
performed but a few moments when the drum beat to arms; and Capt. Snelling instantly started
up to go in search of his sword. All rushed to the door except Gen. Hull, who laying his hand
on the young officer's shoulder as he was about leaving the house, said, 'Snelling, you need
not go, I will excuse you.' 'By no means,' was the reply, 'I feel more like doing my duty now
than ever.' 'Stay, it is a false alarm by my order,' said the General."[150] The ignoble surrender
of Detroit by General Hull was deplored by many of the men under him. The story is told that
while General Hull's aid was trying to place the white flag in position he called, "Snelling,
come and help me fix this flag." Whereupon that officer replied, "No, sir; I will not soil
my hands with that flag."[151]

On June 1, 1819, he was appointed colonel of the Fifth Infantry, and ordered to St. Louis,
where the following winter was passed. In the summer he started up the Mississippi, but was
detained at Prairie du Chien by a court-martial of which he was the president, and it was not
until August that he reached the troops at Camp Cold Water. From that time until the fall of
1827 Colonel Snelling was in command of the post, when not absent on official business. Except
when he had been drinking too much, he was a favorite with the troops, and as he had red hair
and was somewhat bald, they nicknamed him the "prairie-hen".[152]

In the fall of 1827 the Fifth Infantry was withdrawn from the post and was succeeded by the
First Infantry. The Snelling family located at St. Louis, while Colonel Snelling proceeded
to Washington to settle some accounts. While here he was suddenly taken sick and died on August
20, 1828.[153]

The man whose name was applied to the post which has become so historic was a typical soldier
of his day. Along with the bravery and zeal of the army, he possessed also its failings. "Of
myself I have little to say", he wrote on one occasion. "I entered the army a subaltern, almost
eighteen years ago. From obscurity I have passed through every grade to the command of a regiment.
I owe nothing to executive patronage, for I have neither friend or relation connected with
the government: I have obtained my rank in the ordinary course of promotion, and have retained
it by doing my duty; and I really flatter myself that I still possess the confidence of the
government, and the respect of those who serve with and under me."[154]

Daniel Webster, speaking in the Senate on July 9, 1850, remarked that it was not in Indian
wars that heroes were celebrated, but it was there that they were formed.[155] The occasion
of this speech was the death of the President, Zachary Taylor, who had served for many years
upon the Indian frontier. As lieutenant colonel of the First Infantry, he came to Fort Snelling
during the summer of 1828 and remained there for a year, when he established his headquarters
at Fort Crawford. His achievements on the frontier and in the Mexican War, which finally brought
him to the presidency are a familiar story, and the training which he received in Old Fort
Snelling was only a part of that which gave him the name of "Rough and Ready". It is a remarkable
fact that at Fort Snelling he was remembered less for his own actions than for those of his
four pretty daughters whose presence spread commotion in the hearts of the homesick young officers.[156]

In 1837 the First Infantry was withdrawn and part of the Fifth Infantry returned to its former
station. Among the familiar faces seen about the garrison again was that of a man whose eccentricities
and personality are closely associated with the life of the fort.[157] In reporting the casualties
of the battle of Molino del Rey, September 8, 1847, the general commanding the American forces
applied an adjective to only one of the dead. The report reads, "the service mourns the high-souled
Scott, brevet lieutenant colonel 5th infantry".[158] This was Martin Scott, one of the most
human, most lovable, and most energetic men who ever reviewed troops on the parade ground of
Old Fort Snelling. Only from July 15, 1837, until August 20, 1837, was he in command, but for
many years he was a familiar figure around the barracks and in the surrounding country.

Hunting was his favorite pastime, and many a time the prairie rang with the yelping of the
twenty or twenty-five dogs which he kept under the care of a special negro servant at the fort.
His deadly aim was known to all. An army officer who insulted him was severely wounded in a
duel; he often played the part of William Tell by shooting with his pistol through an apple
placed upon the head of his negro; and if credence is to be given to the stories which are
told, even the animals were aware that from him there was no escape. A coon sitting high on
a tree was shot at by several hunters in succession, but still remained in its position. Captain
Scott came along and took aim, whereupon the coon asked, "Who is that?" The reply was, "My
name is Scott." "Scott? what Scott?" continued the coon. "Captain Martin Scott." "Are you Captain
Martin Scott?" There was a pause before the voice in the tree-top continued, "Then hold on--don't
shoot; I may as well come down."[159]

Martin Scott was born in Bennington, Vermont, on January 17, 1788. His family was extremely
poor, but because of his freedom from army vices--gambling and drinking--he was able in later
years to do them many favors. His kindness was equalled only by his bravery. For gallant conduct
during the Mexican War he received several promotions, and held a commission as lieutenant
colonel when he met death leading his regiment in the battle of Molino del Rey.[160]

A newspaper correspondent who went over the field of battle, saw a gray-headed soldier spreading
the blanket over the corpse of a fallen comrade. "I rode up to him", wrote the reporter to
his newspaper, "and asked him whether that was an officer. He looked up, and every lineament
of his face betokening the greatest grief, replied, 'you never asked a question sir, more easily
answered, it is an officer.' I then asked him who he was. He again replied, 'The best soldier
of the 5th infantry, sir.' I then alighted from my horse and uncovering the face, found it
was Col. Martin Scott. As I again covered the face, the soldier continued, without apparently
addressing himself to any person in particular--'They have killed him--they will be paid for
this--if it had only been me--I have served with him almost four enlistments but what will
his poor family say?' And as he concluded thus the tears coursed down his furrowed cheeks,
and the swelling of his bosom showed how deeply he was affected by the death of his veteran
and gallant commander."[161]

When the Fifth Infantry was transferred in 1840 there was a second home-coming at Fort Snelling
in that it was succeeded by parts of the First Infantry which remained until the year 1848.
Captain Seth Eastman was in command at four different times during this period, and it was
through his eyes that we can see Old Fort Snelling as it was.[162] After his graduation from
the Military Academy he was an assistant teacher of drawing at West Point. Following this he
served in the Florida War and on the frontier until 1850, when he was called to Washington
to illustrate the History, Condition, and Future Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United
States. Active service on the frontier and in the Civil War followed, and in 1866 he was breveted
a brigadier general.[163]

Mary Henderson Eastman, his wife, also commands attention. The intimate association of the
fort with the surrounding Indians brought to her knowledge many incidents connected with their
life which she embodied in a volume published in 1849 and entitled: Dahcotah: or, Life and
Legends of the Sioux around Fort Snelling. In this volume Longfellow read of the Falls of Minnehaha,
which he describes so picturesquely in Hiawatha.[164] Other literary work was done by Mrs.
Eastman, one of her volumes being Aunt Phyllis's Cabin, a reply to Mrs. Stowe's Uncle Tom's
Cabin.[165]

Parts of the Sixth Infantry were garrisoned in Fort Snelling from 1848 to 1852, and beginning
in 1850 there was also a company of the First Dragoons who engaged in many of the expeditions
narrated in the preceding chapter. Among the officers who commanded during this period was
Lieutenant William T. Magruder, who was killed on July 3, 1863, at the Battle of Gettysburg
while serving in the ranks of the Confederate army.[166] One company of the Third Artillery
was located at the post from 1853 to 1856. At the head of this company was Captain W. T. Sherman
who, after serving in the Indian wars and the Mexican War, rose to prominence in the Civil
War during which he was brevetted a major general. After the Civil War he was appointed commander
of the Department of the East.[167]

Among the last troops which occupied Fort Snelling before it was abandoned in 1858 was a part
of the Tenth Infantry. Major E. R. S. Canby of this regiment was in command of the fort during
the summer and autumn of 1856. His was a wonderful record of achievement upon the frontier
and in the Civil War, and like Colonel Leavenworth he met his death in service. Born in Kentucky
the year that Fort Snelling was founded, he moved to Indiana as a boy. He was appointed to
the Military Academy at West Point in 1835 and graduated in 1839. For the next three years
he was engaged as a second lieutenant in the Second Infantry in the Florida War, and upon the
successful termination of the campaigns he was employed in removing the Cherokees,  Choctaws,
and Creeks to Indian Territory. After a few years in garrison duty and the recruiting service
he participated in the Mexican War, being promoted "for gallant and meritorious service" at
Contreras, Cherubusco, and the Belen Gate of the City of Mexico. On March 3, 1855, a promotion
made him major in the Tenth Infantry; and it was while holding this position that he served
at Fort Snelling.

In 1858 Major Canby was transferred to Fort Bridger, Utah, where he commanded an expedition
against the Navajo Indians. While stationed at Fort Defiance, New Mexico, during the early
years of the Civil War, he repelled the Confederate general, Sibley, who left one-half of his
force behind him in killed, wounded, and prisoners. On March 31, 1862, he was made a brigadier
general of volunteers and summoned to Washington to assist Secretary of War Stanton. While
here General Canby was called upon to take charge of a difficult position. Draft riots in New
York City from July 13th to July 16th resulted in the killing and wounding of about a thousand
people and the destruction of about one and a half million dollars worth of property.[168]
On July 17th General Canby was put in charge of the Federal troops in the city, and he was
later able to enforce the provisions of the draft without difficulties.[169] Following this
came an appointment as commander of the military division of West Mississippi, where he was
wounded by Confederate guerrillas.

At the close of the war, Edward Canby, then a major general of volunteers was sent to the far
West as commander of the Department of the Columbia. Here the United States was engaged in
a war with the Modoc Indians led by their chief "Captain Jack". On April 11, 1873, General
Canby held a peace parley with the Indians. It had been agreed that both parties should be
unarmed, but in the middle of the negotiations "Captain Jack" suddenly drew a revolver from
his breast, and shot Canby through the head killing him instantly.[170]

Other officers at the post who had real power were the garrison physicians. One of these, Dr.
John Emerson was a giant in body and impulsive in spirit. On a certain day in early winter
when the quartermaster was distributing stoves to the officers, Dr. Emerson asked for one for
his negro servant. This the quartermaster refused, saying that there were not enough in store;
whereupon the doctor insinuated that the statement was a lie. Upon being insulted thus the
quartermaster struck his companion between the eyes. Emerson turned on his heels immediately,
but he returned in a few minutes with a brace of pistols which he pointed at his assailant.
The fighting spirit of the quartermaster fell at the appearance of these weapons, and he started
across the parade ground on a run followed by the doctor. A third character appeared in the
person of Major Plympton, the commanding officer, who arrested Dr. Emerson. This episode gave
rise to a great commotion in the garrison. One group who wanted some excitement urged that
only in blood could the quarrel be settled; while the other group sought for peace, knowing
that there was no other physician nearer than Prairie du Chien. Not for several days was the
quarrel patched up, and then the terms were never made public.[171]

The cause of all this trouble was Dred Scott, man of color, and the slave of Dr. Emerson. He
had been brought to Fort Snelling by his master in 1836, and here he was married to Harriet,
also colored, who had been sold by Major Taliaferro to the doctor. When Dr. Emerson was transferred
to Missouri, he took Dred Scott with him. After the death of his master, Scott began proceedings
in the courts for his freedom on the ground that his residence at the military post made him
free--Fort Snelling being located on soil where slavery was prohibited by the Missouri Compromise
of 1820. Mrs. Emerson, who wanted to avoid an appearance in the courts, made over the control
of Scott to John F. A. Sanford, and the case was finally brought to the Supreme Court of the
United States. Thus Old Fort Snelling was connected with the case of Scott vs. Sanford, which
was so important among the events leading up to the Civil War.[172]

Were battles and military operations alone considered, the annals of Fort Snelling would comprise
few pages; and were only military men characterized one of the most potent factors in the life
of the fort would be omitted. The influence of the fort on the Indians was felt more through
the quiet daily work of the Indian agent who was their official friend. Although he was an
officer entirely distinct from the military organization at the fort, his work may legitimately
be accredited among the other activities of the post. He was, in fact, an army official. The
act of August 7, 1789, which organized the War Department, placed Indian affairs in the hands
of the Secretary;[173] on July 9, 1832, a commissioner of Indian affairs was authorized;[174]
and on June 30, 1834, the relations of the Indian agents to the military department were more
clearly defined. The Superintendent of Indian Affairs, the Indian agents, and the sub-agents
were given the right to call upon the military forces to remove all trespassers in the Indian
country, to procure the arrest and trial of all Indians accused of committing any crime, and
to break up any distillery set up in the Indian country.[175]

By the act of March 3, 1849, the Department of the Interior was organized. Section Five of
the act stipulated that "the Secretary of the Interior shall exercise the supervisory and appellate
powers now exercised by the Secretary of the War Department, in relation to all the acts of
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs".[176] On the whole this law did not disturb the coöperation
between the two branches of the government service, although the commander at Fort Snelling
intimated to the agent that his privileges were "not of right but by courtesy".[177]

One name more than any other is associated with the agency at Fort Snelling--usually called
the agency of St. Peter's. From 1820 to 1840 regiments came and went, and the officers who
ruled as "Lords of the North" were soon transferred to other posts. The military establishment
was itself known by several different names in succession, but the Indian agent remained the
same--Lawrence Taliaferro. His was a lasting influence--lasting because of the position he
held in the memories of his wards and his associates, and lasting because of the records that
he left.

To the Indians he was a real "Father". Americans, Scotch, Sioux, and French could all find
within his breast, they said, a kindred spirit, and they bestowed upon him the name of "Four
Hearts" because of the impartiality of his actions to all nationalities.[178] In June, 1858,
a number of Sioux chiefs were in Washington and came to see him. "My old Father," said Little
Crow, "we have called upon you; we love you; we respect you.... Since you left us a dark cloud
has hung over our nation. We have lost confidence in the promises of our Great Father, and
his people; bad men have nearly destroyed us.... We failed to get a friend in anyone like you;
they all joined the traders. We know your heart, it feels for your old children."[179]

Those who were associated with him at the fort also had kind words for him. "He belonged to
a class more common then than now", remarked the son of Colonel Bliss. "He imagined it to be
his imperative duty to see that every Indian under his charge had the enjoyment of all his
rights, and never seemed to realize his opportunities for arranging with contractors for the
supply of inferior goods and for dividing the profits."[180] Of this honesty Taliaferro wrote:
"I have the Sad Consolation of leaving after twenty Seven years--the public Service as poor
as when first I entered--The only evidence of my integrity".[181]

No one can write of Fort Snelling without using the papers which Lawrence Taliaferro left.
The diary kept by him during these twenty years shows the meager pleasures and grim duties
of his task. Of this diary only a few fragmentary pages are extant--three roughly bound collections
of sheets, many of them torn, many of them half-burned, and their writing faded. But from almost
every page that is legible some information is gleaned, concerning the life of the soldiers,
the visits of the Indians, the state of the weather, and reflections on Indian relations and
the best time for planting potatoes.[182] His wide acquaintance and the great extent of territory
which his agency covered led to correspondence with many men. These letters also passed through
a fire, and those that were rescued are now bound in four volumes.[183]

His reports to General William Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs at St. Louis, were forwarded
to Washington where they are now kept in the files of the Indian office.[184] With methodical
care Governor Clark copied the letters which he received into letter books. The existence of
these letter books was not known until a few years ago, when some of them were found in the
hands of a junk dealer in Lawrence, Kansas, and were rescued--a great gain to the history of
the West.[185]

Many years after he closed his connection with the agency Lawrence Taliaferro wrote an "Autobiography"--a
narrative that shows all the quaintness and egotism of the man. "Not until after the year 1840",
he wrote "did the government become unfortunate in the selection of their agents for Indian
affairs."[186] From this account can be gleaned information to supplement the bare facts usually
given about his life. His ancestors had come to England from Genoa, Italy, and later they emigrated
to Virginia. Here Lawrence Taliaferro was born on February 28, 1794. At the age of eighteen
he joined the army and served through the War of 1812, being a first lieutenant when it closed.
Although he received no other promotion he was always known among his associates as "Major".[187]

He was appointed Indian agent for St. Peter's on March 27, 1819, and on April 1, 1819, he accepted--resigning
the same day from the army.[188] He reached his new station probably in the summer of 1820,
and was immediately engaged in the duties connected with Indian affairs.[189] During his term
of office he was continually troubled by ill-health which resulted from his campaigns in the
late war. In 1824 he resigned because of this ill-health, and although he continued in service,
Governor Clark at one time wrote to the Secretary of War that "his fate is considered as very
doubtful."[190]

As early as 1831 he confided to his diary that "there is something of a Combination of Persons
at work day after day to pick at my Actions both public and private".[191] His resignation
finally came in 1839, and he closed his connection with the Department on January 1, 1840,
because he could no longer endure the machinations of the traders.[192] Thereafter he made
his home at Bedford, Pennsylvania, serving as a military storekeeper from 1857 to 1863, when
he was put on the retired list. Mr. Taliaferro visited his old home at Fort Snelling in 1856
and wrote characteristically: "We were in St. Paul on the twenty-fourth of June, the 'widow's
son' was Irving's Rip Van Winkle; after a nap of fifteen years, we awoke in the midst of fast
times. We truly felt bewildered when we found all the haunts and resting-places of the once
noble sons of the forest, covered by cities, towns, and hamlets. We asked but few questions,
being to our mind received as a strange animal; if nothing worse."[193]

Among the others who served before 1858 as Indian agent were Amos J. Bruce, R. G. Murphy, and
Nathaniel McLean. The influx of whites had greatly increased the difficulties of their position,
and the memory of their former agent made the Indians suspicious of their new advisers. The
Governor of the Territory became the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and his presence so
near the agency took from the agent much of his power.[194]

Scott Campbell, the interpreter at Fort Snelling,  was the intermediary between the Indians
and their lords. He was a half-breed whom Meriwether Lewis had met on his expedition up the
Missouri River. He took the boy with him back to St. Louis; and when Lewis died, Campbell returned
to his Sioux relatives and finally drifted to the agency at Fort Snelling.[195] Having a knowledge
of four languages, and possessing the confidence of all the tribes within four hundred miles
of the post, he was indispensable. From August, 1825, to April, 1826, he was engaged in the
fur trade, but was lured back into service by a salary of thirty-four dollars per month and
one ration per day. By 1843, however, he had become such a drunkard that he had to be dismissed.[196]

The veteran missionary, S. W. Pond, in recalling early days wrote that "Scott Campbell no longer
sits smoking his long pipe, and conversing in low tones with the listless loungers around the
old Agency House; but who that resided in this country thirty or forty years ago can pass by
the old stone houses near Fort Snelling and not think of Major Taliaferro and of his interpreter?"[197]

And who can pass the Old Round Tower without thinking of those men who as officers at Fort
Snelling ruled supreme over a vast region, and who left the fort for places of greater trust
and greater influence?

V

A SOLDIER'S WORLD

Instead of a world of city streets and country towns, of tilled fields and rivers busy with
commerce, the raw recruit at Old Fort Snelling entered upon a world of stone barracks and Indian
tepees, of tangled prairies and rushing rivers.[198] The landing was directly under the cliff
which towered above to a height which to many a wanderer in a frail canoe seemed twice the
one hundred and six feet which the scientist's instruments ascribed to it.[199] In later years
a stairway led to the quarters of the commanding officer, but the wagon road which crept upwards
along the sandstone wall--"nearly as white as loaf-sugar"[200]--where the swallows flew in
and out from their holes, gained the summit at the rear of the fort.

Following the road through the gate, and passing between the buildings to the center of the
parade ground, the recruit probably paused to look about him.[201] Visible in the openings
between the buildings was the stone wall about ten feet high which surrounded the barracks,
quarters, and storehouses. This wall took the place of the picket-stockade which was so prominent
a feature in earlier and ruder fortifications. Conforming to the arrangement of the buildings
which it enclosed, the wall was diamond-shaped,  one point being at the edge of the promontory
where the valley of the Minnesota River met that of the Mississippi River. A second point was
on the edge of the steep bluff which rose from the Mississippi. A third point, at a distance
of about four hundred and fifty feet directly opposite the second, was on the summit of the
Minnesota bluff. The fourth point was situated on the level ground of the plateau, at a distance
of about seven hundred feet from the first point.

As he stood in the middle of the parade ground and gazed beyond the pump and the magazine at
the western or fourth point, the recruit saw rising to a height twice that of the wall, the
Old Round Tower. To-day this tower is a vine-clad relic--a vestige remaining from the days
of the past. But to the soldier of Old Fort Snelling it was a more practical structure--a place
of lookout from which he was often to scan the swells of the prairie for approaching Indians
or returning comrades. At the second and third points were blockhouses--buildings of stone,
each giving a view of the river below it. At the first point there was also a tower--a wooden
lookout platform at the very edge of the precipice from which was visible the landscape surrounding
the fort.

But the soldier was doubtless more interested in the buildings in which he was to live. The
barracks for the men were under the north wall and consisted of two buildings one story in
height. The larger of these, which was intended to accommodate two companies was divided into
sets, each set having on the main floor an orderly-room and three squad-rooms, while below
in the basement were a mess-room and a kitchen. The other barrack was intended to be occupied
by one company only; and the orderly-room, squad-rooms, mess-rooms, and a kitchen were on the
same floor. The cellars below were damp and were used only for storage purposes.

Occupying the same position under the south wall, and facing the barracks, were two other buildings,
similar in appearance. In one of these the officers' quarters were located. It was divided
into twelve sets, each consisting of two rooms, the front one sixteen by fourteen feet, and
the back one, eight by fifteen and a half feet. In the basement were located kitchens for each
set. The other building contained the offices of the commanding officer, the paymaster, the
quartermaster, and the commissary. Here was a room used by the post school, and another filled
with harness. An ordnance sergeant and five laundresses found quarters in the same structure.

The quarters of the commanding officer with the flag staff directly in front, faced the parade
ground and the Old Round Tower. There were four rooms on the main floor and in the basement
were kitchens and pantries. Other buildings were also included within the fort. The storehouse
of the commissary department was located near the southern blockhouse; and on either side of
the gate were two buildings, shunned by all--the guardhouse and the hospital.

Such was the plan of the fort, convenient in arrangement and beautiful in appearance; but the
report of an official inspection in 1827 complained that "the main points of defence against
an enemy appear to have been in some respects sacrificed in the effort to secure the comfort
and convenience of the troops in peace. These are important considerations; but at an exposed
frontier post the primary object must be security against the attack of an enemy. Health and
comfort come next. The buildings are too large, too numerous, and extending over a space entirely
too great; enclosing a uselessly large parade, five times greater than is at all desirable
in that climate."[202]

A traveller who at a later day was entertained within the fort wrote of it facetiously in these
words: "The idea is further suggested, that the strong stone wall was rather erected to keep
the garrison in, than the enemy out. Though adapted for mounting cannon if needful, the walls
were unprovided with those weapons; and the only piece of ordnance that I detected out of the
magazine, was an old churn thrust gallantly through one of the embrasures. We were however
far from complaining of the extra expense and taste which the worthy officer whose name it
bears had expended on the erection of Fort Snelling, as it is in every way an addition to the
sublime landscape in which it is situated."[203]

But an examination of the contents of the magazine would have revealed
weapons more formidable than churns. Among the equipment reported in
 1834 one reads of two iron twelve-pounder cannon of the garrison
type; three six-pounder iron cannon of the field type; and two five and
eight-tenths inch iron howitzers. There was also equipment for these
pieces of artillery--carriages, sponges and rammers, lead aprons, dark
lanterns, gunners' belts, gunners' haversacks, and tarpaulins. There
were stored ready for service, 440 balls for the twelve-pounders, 1255
balls for the six-pounders, 546 pounds of mixed loose grapeshot, and
many other sizes of strapped and canister shot. For the use of the
infantry there were 7749 musket flints, 1825 pounds of musket powder,
1513 pounds of rifle powder, 31,390 cartridges, and 2047 blank
cartridges.[204]

Other structures closely connected with the work of the fort were located outside the wall.
The buildings of the Indian agency were situated a quarter of a mile west, on the prairie.[205]
These consisted of a council house, the agent's house, and an armorer's shop. The original
council house was built by the troops in 1823, but Agent Taliaferro claimed that most of the
inside work was done at his own expense. The building was of logs and stone, eighty-two feet
long, eighteen feet wide, and presenting in the front a piazza of seventy feet. Within, there
were six rooms, lined with pine planking and separated from each other by panel doors.[206]

At one o'clock on the morning of August 14, 1830, the sentinels at the fort discovered that
the council house was on fire. But the flames had gained so much headway that it was impossible
to save any of the contents. The interpreter and his family who lived in this building barely
escaped with their lives. In reporting the loss to the superintendent, Major Taliaferro wrote
that "the general impression here is that fire was put to the house by Some drunken Indians
& circumstances are strong in justifying such a conclusion."[207] This surmise was right, for
on April 7, 1831, the Indians delivered at the fort one of their number who they claimed was
guilty of the act.[208]

That steps were taken to build a new council house is evident from the record in Taliaferro's
diary under date of March 8, 1831, that four men had been hired "at $12 per Month to cut &
carry timber out of the pine Swamp for the Agency Council House."[209] But in 1839 Taliaferro
recommended that the agency be moved to a point seven miles up the river; and in 1841 there
was a movement on foot to buy Baker's stone trading house for the same purpose.[210]

Near the location of the old council house were two other buildings. One of these was the agent's
house. This was made entirely of stone, and was one and a half stories high. It contained four
rooms and a passage on the lower floor and two rooms above.[211] Hastily built by troops at
an early day, its comforts were few. "Since the Rainy Season Set in", complained the agent
in 1834, "both the hired Men and Myself have not had a Spot in our houses that Could be called
dry, Not even our beds".[212] An armorer's shop, where blacksmith work was done for the Indians,
was made of logs and measured sixteen by eighteen feet. Nearer the fort was the home of Franklin
Steele, the sutler of the post.[213]

At Camp Cold Water, B. F. Baker had erected a large stone trading house, which in 1841 was
valued at six thousand dollars. While he had no legal title to the land on which this house
was built, the officers at the post allowed him to remain. Later it was sold to Kenneth McKenzie,
who in 1853 built an addition, renovated the entire building, and used it as a hotel. In the
vicinity of this structure were several small huts which had been the homes of some squatters
on the reservation. But after their expulsion these huts rapidly fell into decay.[214]

In his duties and recreations the soldier was often brought into touch with other features
of the world about him--the points of scenic interest and the Indian villages. From the wooden
lookout tower near the commanding officer's quarters a glimpse of the surrounding land was
revealed.

"The view from the angle of the wall at the extreme point, is highly romantic", wrote one who
saw the wild scene before civilization had left its traces on the landscape. "To your left
lies the broad deep valley of the Mississippi, with the opposite heights, descending precipitously
to the water's edge; and to the right and in front, the St. Peter's, a broad stream, worthy
from its size, length of course, and the number of tributaries which it receives, to be called
the Western Fork of the Great River itself. It is seen flowing through a comparatively open
vale, with swelling hills and intermingling forest and prairie, for many miles above the point
of junction. As it approaches the Mississippi, the volume of water divides into two branches;
that on the right pursues the general course of the river above, and enters the Mississippi,
at an angle of perhaps fifty degrees, directly under the walls of the fort; while the other,
keeping to the base of the high prairie lands which rise above it to a notable summit called
the Pilot Knob, enters the Mississippi lower down. The triangular island thus formed between
the rivers lies immediately under the fort. Its level surface is partially cultivated, but
towards the lower extremity thickly covered with wood. Beyond their junction, the united streams
are seen gliding at the base of high cliffs into the narrowing valley below. Forests, and those
of the most picturesque character, interspersed with strips of prairie, clothe a great portion
of the distant view.

"A little cluster of trading houses is situated on the right branch of the St. Peter's, and
here and there on the shores, and on the island, you saw the dark conical tents of the wandering
Sioux. A more striking scene we had not met with in the United States, and hardly any that
could vie with it for picturesque beauty, even at this unfavourable season. What must it be
in spring, when the forests put forth their young leaves, and the prairies are clothed in verdure!"[215]

This "little cluster of trading houses" was the town of Mendota. Here was the stone house of
Henry H. Sibley, and that of J. B. Faribault. Near the river was the ferry house and the home
of Mr. Finley the ferryman.[216] Upon the hillside lay the little Catholic chapel, surrounded
by the graves in the cemetery. But the center of interest was in the warehouse and store of
the American Fur Company, where the skins of buffalo, elk, deer, fox, beaver, otter, muskrat,
mink, martin, raccoon, and other animals were sorted and divided into packs weighing about
a hundred pounds. Indians, Frenchmen, half-breeds, and restless wanderers from the East were
always loitering about the establishment.[217]

From the fort a road led along the Mississippi to the Falls of St. Anthony, on the way crossing
Minnehaha Creek on the bridge built in early days by the soldiers. Here a stop was made to
view the beauty of the cascade then known as Little Falls or Brown's Falls. It was the common
practice for travellers to descend to the foot of the falls, clinging to the shrubs along the
slippery pathway, and then go behind the sheet of falling water.[218] Continuing, at a distance
of eight miles up the Mississippi from the fort, the Falls of St. Anthony was reached. Although
only sixteen feet high, the breadth of almost six hundred yards, broken in the middle by a
rocky island gave to it an impressive majesty, and the thick vegetation on the island and banks
returned a gloomy reflection from the whirling waters.[219]

It is no wonder that in that wild and picturesque locality the Indians saw things ghostly and
supernatural. "They tell you that here a young Dacota mother, goaded by jealousy,--the husband
[sic] of her children having taken another wife,--unmoored her canoe above the Great Fall,
and seating herself and her children in it,--sang her death song, and went over the foaming
acclivity in the face and amid the shrieks of her tribe. And often, the Indian believes, when
the nights are calm, and the sky serene,--and the dew-drops are hanging motionless on the sprays
of the weeping birch on the island,--and the country far and wide is vibrating to the murmur
of the cataract,--that then the misty form of the young mother may be seen moving down the
deceitful current above, while her song is heard mingling its sad notes with the lulling sound
of 'the Laughing Water!'"[220]

Here at the Falls, on the west bank of the river, were three buildings: a saw mill, a grist
mill, and a one-story frame dwelling, where a detachment of soldiers always remained to guard
the property. The saw mill had provided much of the lumber used in the construction of the
fort, and in the grist mill the corn was cracked that was fed during the winter to the cattle--a
drove being delivered every fall for the use of the garrison. These buildings were still standing
in 1858, although they were then in a bad state of decay.[221]

Among the lakes on the prairie the most important were the Lake of the Isles, Lake Calhoun,
and Lake Harriet. These were favorite picnic and hunting grounds for the men and women of the
garrison. An old map made in 1823 shows "Green's Villa" on Lake Calhoun--probably a hunting
lodge or shelter built by Lieutenant Platt Rogers Green.[222] Here on Lake Calhoun was located
the missionary establishment which was so closely connected with the life of the fort.[223]

There were other Indian villages near the fort. Nine miles below, on the bank of the Mississippi
was the Sioux village of Kaposia. Here Wakinyantanka, or Big Thunder, reigned over his band
which numbered one hundred and eighty-three in 1834. Two or three miles upstream from its mouth
on the banks of the Minnesota was the group of wigwams called Black Dog's village, although
the chief was Wamditanka or Big Eagle. About nine miles from Fort Snelling was Pinisha, reported
as having one hundred and forty-eight inhabitants ruled over by Good Road. The largest group,
three hundred and sixty-eight souls, was that of the Tintatonwan band, located twenty-four
miles from Fort Snelling and near the present town of Shakopee. Shapaydan or Shakpay was the
chief, the father of the warrior of the same name who was executed at Fort Snelling for participating
in the Sioux massacre of 1862.[224]

These villages were very much the same in appearance, large bark lodges being occupied by the
Indians in the summer. The villages swarmed with children, squaws, painted warriors, and yelping
dogs. About the lodges were the corn fields, the scaffolds where the corn was dried, and the
more mournful scaffolds where, wrapped in buffalo skins, reposed the bones of the hunters who
had followed the milky way to the "Land of the Ghosts".[225]

VI

GLIMPSES OF GARRISON LIFE

What sort of a life did the soldier live in the barracks and on the parade ground, and in the
world of prairies, rivers, and woods that lay about him? No person who was ever quartered within
the walls of Old Fort Snelling seems to have left an account of what was included in the tasks
and recreations of a day. Doubtless the routine duties repeated day after day were thought
too ordinary to be worth recording. The pleasures were so simple and came so much as a matter
of course that they also receive scant mention in the annals of the fort. It is from the General
Regulations for the Army that one gets the daily program of a military post; and the few fragmentary
pages of Taliaferro's diary and letters, together with the stray remarks of travellers and
pioneers, indicate the joys and sorrows of a very human garrison.[226]

No sooner was dawn visible over the Mississippi bluffs than the musicians of the post were
summoned to the parade ground and five minutes later the reveille was sounded. At the signal
both officers and men arose. Soon the rolls of the companies were called in front of the quarters;
the quarters were put in order; the ground in front swept; and the horses fed and watered.
At eight-thirty the sick in the barracks were taken to the hospital, and at nine o'clock breakfast
was served, preceded by a second roll-call. Then the various tasks of the day were performed
under the direction of a captain or subaltern daily detailed as the "officer of the day".

A party termed the "General Fatigue" swept the entire parade ground--unless there were enough
prisoners in the guard house to perform this unpleasant duty. A police guard furnished sentinels
to watch over the prisoners, the colors, the quarters of the commanding officer, and the arms
of the regiment. Other soldiers were posted at the front and the rear of the fort. Certain
detachments were formed for reconnoitering and foraging--the nature of the tasks depending
on the season of the year and the needs of the garrison.

At three o'clock in the afternoon the third roll-call was followed by dinner; and thirty minutes
before sunset the music called out the regiment for dress parade, where various maneuvers were
gone through and orders were read. After the parade, when the regiment was again in its quarters,
the arms were placed in the arm-racks, the horses attended to, a fifth roll-call endured, and
tattoo sounded. Then the lights were extinguished and all were expected to be quiet for the night.

This monotony of the daily program was equalled only by the monotony of the meals. The regulation
diet prescribed by Congress in 1802 consisted of a pound and a quarter of beef, or three-quarters
of a pound of pork; eighteen ounces of bread or flour; one gill of rum, whiskey, or brandy;
and for every hundred rations were supplied two quarts of salt, four quarts of vinegar, four
pounds of soap, and one pound and a half of candles. In 1832 coffee and sugar were substituted
for the liquor.[227]

During the early years of Fort Snelling these supplies were brought from St. Louis in flatboats.
With the development of steamboat traffic, the steamboat was utilized, but it did not entirely
displace the earlier method. Difficulties often hindered the transportation of supplies. The
summer of 1829 was extremely dry. The average monthly rainfall was less than an inch, and steamboat
navigation was impossible. Even keelboats found difficulty in ascending the river; sixty days
were spent by Lieutenant Reynolds in bringing up a load of supplies. A sand bar at Pine Bend
was impassable, so half of the load was taken off and the rest hurried up the river. When the
crew arrived the garrison was upon its last barrel of flour.[228]

"Bread and soup", runs a clause in the General Regulations for the Army, "are the great items
of a soldier's diet, in every situation".[229] The bread was made from the wheat grown by the
soldiers, and was ground in the mill at the Falls of St. Anthony. For some reason the crop
of 1823 had become mouldy and the bread was black and bitter. When forced to eat it, the troops
almost mutinied, bringing it out upon the parade ground and throwing it down.[230] Nor does
it seem likely that the soup was more appetizing when one reads the following recipe which
guided the company cooks: "To make soup, put into the vessel at the rate of five pints of water
to a pound of fresh meat; apply a quick heat to make it boil promptly; skim off the foam, and
then moderate the fire; salt is then put in, according to the palate. Add the vegetables of
the season one or two hours, and sliced bread some minutes, before the simmering is ended.
When the broth is sensibly reduced in quantity, that is, after five or six hours cooking, the
process will be complete."[231]

Fortunately the soldier did not have to depend entirely on these rations. Out of his modest
cash income of six dollars per month he could buy at the sutler's store small necessities and
some luxuries. The sutler was the authorized merchant of the post, and in order that his monopoly
might not lead him to demand unreasonable sums for his wares, the prices were fixed by a "council
of administration" composed of three officers. For every officer and enlisted soldier serving
at the post the sutler paid into the "post fund", from ten to fifteen cents per month. This
sum was to be used for the relief of the widows or orphans of soldiers, the maintenance of
a post school and band, and the purchase of books for a library.[232]

The books of Franklin Steele, who was the sutler at Fort Snelling from 1838 to 1858, may still
be examined; and from their dreary lists of accounts, the human wants of a soldier at Old Fort
Snelling are clearly indicated.[233] On March 12, 1849, Private Brown bought a pound of currants
and a pound of raisins for fifty cents. Shoes, soap, and currants totalled $1.50 on April 7th;
and on March 20th, two pounds of butter sold for thirty cents and a pound of cheese for forty-two
cents. Private Ryerson had more varied needs. On March 7th, 1849, he purchased indigo; on March
16th, paper; on April 9th, alcohol and suspenders; five days later, needles and sugar; and
on April 23rd, apples, butter, and a tin cup. The quiet waters in the neighboring lakes tempted
Eli Pettijohn on a spring day in 1855 to invest $2.50 in "Fishing Tackel".

That the officers did not live upon the same fare as the soldiers is indicated by the entries
under the title "Officers Mess". On July 31, 1855, there was purchased ten cents worth of cloves,
ten cents worth of pepper, and ninety-five cents worth of cheese. Under the date of August
8th "Bread tickets" were purchased to the amount of one dollar; and on August 30th, fifty cents
worth of "Yeast Powd'r" was charged to their account.

Saint and sinner both patronized this store. The Reverend Ezekiel Gear,
who was the chaplain at the fort, evidently believed that cleanliness
was next to godliness, for on July 31, 1855, he paid thirty cents for a
scrub brush; on August 4th, he bought a broom for fifty cents; on August
30th, he purchased twenty-five cents worth of starch, and on October
19th, a large broom. Indulging in some luxuries, on August 2nd, 1855, he
bought five cents worth of candy. Probably this was a treat for those
 two boys, his son and his grandson, whom a visitor two years
later found sleeping in the little cemetery at Morgan's Bluff near the
fort, their resting place marked by a rude slab with a Latin
inscription: "Lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in death not
divided."[234]

None the less clearly is the character of Sergeant Mahoney portrayed in these accounts. On
July 31, 1855, it is recorded under his name: "1 Flask $.75". On August 20th, the same officer
paid seventy-five cents for a bottle of cider. And the chaplain would have had an excellent
illustration for his next sermon on intemperance if he could have read, as we can to-day, this
melancholy note made in the sutler's book on October 17th: "Sergeant Mahoney, Cash Loaned 20.00".

There was need for sermons on intemperance. During the early years whiskey was issued as a
part of the soldier's ration, and this only served to stimulate the desire for more. The class
of men in the army was not always of the highest, and there were enough civilians who were
willing to pander to their appetites. The following extract from Taliaferro's diary for March
22, 1831, is undoubtedly characteristic of many a forgotten episode: "Nothing of importance
transpired this day. Two drunken Soldiers in crossing the SPeters broke through the Ice & were
near being drowned. They were exceeding alarmed & made a hedious Noise & yelling for Assistance--the
men from the Fort relieved them although late at night." Not always was assistance on hand
in such circumstances. A report was made in March, 1840, of a certain officer who "disappeared
on the evening of the 5th of March, supposed to have been drowned by falling through the ice."[235]

Drunkenness and absence from roll-call were among the infractions of rules for which punishment
was most often inflicted. The character and severity of the punishment depended upon the mood
of the commanding officer. Colonel Snelling, who was usually a very gentle man, was particularly
severe in his treatment of offenders. "He would take them to his room", wrote one who spent
several years in the Snelling household, "and compel them to strip, when he would flog them
unmercifully. I have heard them beg him to spare them, 'for God's sake.'"[236] This punishment
by flogging was often performed with a "cat"--an instrument made of nine thongs about eighteen
inches long, knotted in every inch, and attached to a small stick. When the culprit was stripped
to the waist and tied to the flagstaff, the drummers took turns in applying the "cat" to the
bare back.[237]

Other officers used less painful methods. Thus, Major Loomis was known as "Old Ring", since
his favorite punishment was to place a log of wood upon the prisoner's shoulder and compel
him to walk around and around in a circle under the vigilant eye of a sentinel. To Major John
Bliss, who was in command at Fort Snelling from 1833 to 1836, the name "Black Starvation" might
well have been applied. The negro servant, Hannibal, who clandestinely sold spruce beer to
the soldiers was confined in the Black Hole for forty-eight hours; and Private Kelly, who refused
to do his part in the fatigue party spent more than seventy-two hours in the Black Hole before
the pangs of starvation persuaded him to promise Major Bliss to be good in the future.[238]
On one occasion, which may be taken as typical of usual conditions, out of a total garrison
of three hundred and twenty-nine, twenty-six were confined in prison. But at another time the
commanding officer could report: "No Convicts at this Post".[239]

The severity of the military rules and the monotony of the life led to two undesirable consequences--mutinies
and desertions. Of the former there is apparently no description, and the brief entry in Taliaferro's
diary for February 3, 1831, leaves much to the imagination: "Mutiny of Most of the Troops of
the 1st Infantry, Stationed at Fort Snelling this Morning".[240] What grievances led to the
uprising on that wintry day, and by what diplomacy or by what punishments it was put down,
are unrecorded.

Concerning the extent of desertions there is specific information regarding three years. Desertion
was prevalent in the army at this time, and in order to provide methods of combating it the
Secretary of War presented to Congress a great deal of information covering the years from
1823 to 1825.[241] During these three years there were stationed at Fort Snelling an aggregate
of two hundred and fifty-one soldiers in 1823; three hundred and thirty-five in 1824;  and
two hundred and forty-six in 1825.[242] Of these, six deserted in 1823, eight in 1824, and
twenty-nine in 1825. In this total of forty-three desertions, fifteen left in their first year
of service, seventeen in the second, eighteen in the third, one in the fourth, and two in the
fifth. Interesting facts regarding the kind of men who lived at the old frontier post can be
gleaned from the data presented. Most of them were between the ages of twenty-one and thirty.
In occupation there were laborers, farmers, painters, shoemakers, papermakers, wheelwrights,
jewellers, and brewers. Among these forty-three, twenty-six were born in the United States,
five in Ireland, two in Scotland, one in France, one in Holland, and one in Canada.

The soldier who sought freedom by stealthily climbing over the stone wall of Fort Snelling
and appropriating some canoe drawn up on the river bank, left monotony and discipline behind
him; but in doing so he faced many dangers. There was no settlement nearer than Prairie du
Chien--a military establishment. Indians were not afraid to injure those whom they knew to
be deserters. A certain man by the name of Dixon who deserted was captured by Indians who brought
him back to Fort Snelling and received a reward of twenty dollars. Dixon was court-martialed
and sentenced to receive fifty lashes from the "cat" and then to be drummed out of the Fort.[243]
Four soldiers who escaped were killed by the Indians of Red Wing's band, and their bodies were
left on the shores of Lake Pepin, where they were later found half-eaten by the birds.[244]

Sickness and death reduced the number on duty at the post. From the doctor the sick received
professional aid. In 1826 when the force at Fort Snelling amounted to three hundred and twenty-nine
men there were in the hospital one subaltern, one non-commissioned officer, one musician, and
fifteen privates. That Fort Snelling was at a healthful location is indicated by the fact that
during the same period at Fort Atkinson, with a force of only one hundred more, there was a
total of one hundred and twenty-five sick persons.[245]

The number of deaths was proportionately small. In the year ending on September 30, 1823, there
was only one death; the next year the toll was the same; and in 1825 it amounted to five.[246]
On the occasion of a funeral six men, detailed from those of the same rank as the deceased,
carried the coffin to the little cemetery outside the fort. A salute was fired over the grave
and the band played solemn music, the drums being covered with black crepe. The mounds in the
cemetery, unmarked by any stones, were soon obliterated; but if the departed soldier had been
a cheerful companion his barrack-songs were missed by his comrades, and many friends, half-way
across a continent, would mourn for one who was lying in an unknown grave, "somewhere in the
West".[247]

On account of monotonous drills and tedious routine, any pretext to go into the Indian country
was hailed with delight. The bustle, excitement, and troubles connected with the departure
of these expeditions are best described by Mrs. Seth Eastman, who as the wife of the commanding
officer had often waved farewell to the departing company.[248]

"Now for excitement, the charm of garrison life. Officers are of course always ready to 'go
where glory waits' them, but who ever heard of one being ready to go when the order came?

"Alas! for the young officer who has a wife to leave; it will be weeks before he meets again
her gentle smile!

"Still more--alas for him who has no wife at all! for he has not a shirt with buttons on it,
and most of what he has are in the wash. He will have to borrow of Selden; but here's the difficulty,
Selden is going too, and is worse off than himself. But no matter! What with pins and twine
and trusting to chance, they will get along.

"Then the married men are inquiring for tin reflectors, for hard bread, though healthy, is
never tempting. India rubber cloaks are in requisition too.

"Those who are going, claim the doctor in case of accidents. Those who stay, their wives at
least, want him for fear of measles; while the disciple of Esculapius, though he knows there
will be better cooking if he remain at home, is certain there will be food for fun if he go.
It is soon decided--the doctor goes.

"Then the privates share in the pleasure of the day. How should a soldier be employed but in
active service? besides, what a capital chance to desert! One, who is tired of calling 'All's
well' through the long night, with only the rocks and trees to hear him, hopes that it will
be his happy fate to find out there is danger near, and to give the alarm. Another vows, that
if trouble wont come, why he will bring it by quarrelling with the first rascally Indian he
meets. All is ready. Rations are put up for the men;--hams, buffalo tongues, pies and cake
for the officers. The batallion marches out to the sound of the drum and fife;--they are soon
down the hill--they enter their boats; handkerchiefs are waved from the fort, caps are raised
and flourished over the water--they are almost out of sight--they are gone."

Apart from these trips abroad and the stated drills and terms of guard duty the tasks which
occupied the time of the soldiers depended upon the season of the year. A general order of
September 11, 1818, had commanded the making of gardens at all the military posts.[249] In
the fall of 1819 when the temporary cabins at New Hope Cantonment had been built, the soldiers
began ploughing for the crop of the next summer.[250] Major Long, in 1823, found two hundred
and ten acres under cultivation--one hundred of wheat, sixty of maize, fifteen of oats, fourteen
of potatoes, and twenty acres in gardens.[251] All through the history of Old Fort Snelling
the soldiers were employed as farmers. A visitor in 1852 observed that "its garrison is rather
deficient in active employment, and we noticed a number of the rank and file taking exercise
in a large corn and vegetable field attached to the Fort. It was certainly not exactly soldierly
employment, but it was more manly, to our mind, than shooting and stabbing at $8 a month, and
no question asked."[252]

For the horses and cattle kept at the fort a great deal of hay was necessary for the winter
months. This was obtained from the broad prairies of the military reservation. A group of men
called the "Hay Party" were employed during the summer in cutting and stacking the long grass.
But one officer was of the opinion that this task caused discontent--the enlisted man was no
more than a common laborer and hence he lost the pride of a soldier.

The diverse tasks at which a soldier might be called to labor are indicated by a summary of
the employment of the troops in 1827. Seven soldiers were acting as teamsters, five were performing
carpenters' duties, two were quarrying stone, two men and a sergeant composed the party guarding
the mills at the Falls of St. Anthony, and eight others were "Procuring forage by order of
Col. Snelling".[253]

Summer brought its own pleasures as well as duties. At Lake Calhoun,
Lake Harriet, Lake of the Isles, and Minnehaha Falls, many were the
picnics held when visitors came to the garrison.[254] Swan, geese, and
ducks were numerous about the lakes and swamps, and with the famous
hunter H. H. Sibley as a guide, the game bags were soon filled. During
 a period of three years, Mr. Sibley, alone, shot 1798 ducks--a
fact which indicates what success a soldier-sportsman could have in his
few hours of recreation.[255]

But it was when the prairies were impassable because of drifts of snow from six to fifteen
feet high,[256] and when the course of the river could be traced only by a streak of white
between the gray of its wooded banks that there appeared those features which are peculiar
to the life of a remote garrison. The isolation was almost complete. There was no traffic upon
the frozen river, and the traders were wintering in the Indian villages. Only through the mail
was communication with the outside world possible. It was planned to have a monthly mail service,
soldiers being sent to Prairie du Chien with the letters. Here they delivered about two-thirds
of the mail to the persons to whom it was addressed and the rest was deposited in the post
office.[257]

In summer the mail was carried by the soldiers in canoes, but in winter the journey had to
be made on foot. In summer the labor was lightened when a passing steamer overtook the rowing
soldiers and picked up the canoe with its crew. In winter no such aid was possible. A hard
day's tramp was followed by a night among the drifts, unless the tepee of some friendly Indian
gave a temporary respite for a few hours.[258]

Nor was this task free from perils. A system was arranged whereby a courier from Fort Snelling
and one from Prairie du Chien set out at about the same time, meeting at Wabasha's village
where the packs were exchanged and each returned to his own post. On one occasion a spring
thaw overtook the carrier from Prairie du Chien, who had proceeded beyond the meeting place
because the messenger from the north was late. Suddenly the ice groaned and cracked, and the
postman with difficulty found safety on a small island where, to his great surprise, he found
the postman from Fort Snelling who had been caught in the same manner. Their provisions soon
gave out; for a while they had only rose-apples to eat. It was not until almost two weeks later
that the two half-starved messengers were picked up by the canoes of some friendly Sioux.[259]

Such accidents rendered the mail service uncertain, and it was with impatience that the watchers
at the fort looked down the river for the coming of the news-carriers. On April 2, 1831, Taliaferro
wrote: "The Express departed--4 men in a Skiff--to convey the Mail to the Post Office at Prairie
du Chiens--our return Express daily expected." But they hoped too early and on April 5th it
was recorded that "Our Express--1st which left for Prairie du Chiens on the 2d of March--has
now been Absent more than a Month & progressing in the Seccond. We have not had inteligence
from Washington City--since the 6th of December last". Not until April 10th did the mail arrive.
But even when the messengers were safe in the fort it was not certain that they brought what
was so eagerly looked for, as the entry on February 27th clearly shows:  "Lieut Williams &
Mr Bailly returned this eveng from Prairie du Chiens but brought no Mail there having been
no arrival since December."[260] It was during this winter that even Prairie du Chien was shut
off from the outside, the amount of snow between Peoria and Prairie du Chien stopping the mail
service for two months. Again and again during the winter months the commanding officer complained
to headquarters that "no Orders have been received within the Month".[261]

The duties of the soldiers during the winter were few. From the time it was built up to 1833
the quarters at Fort Snelling were heated by fireplaces. At that time, however, stoves were
substituted.[262] Wood was used for fuel--to obtain which was a never-ending task in winter.
When Captain Seth Eastman was in command at various periods from 1844 to 1848 the garrison
had to go from eight to ten miles for wood. The banks of the Minnesota River were bordered
by a forest varying from one hundred to three hundred yards wide; but by 1858 all of this for
a distance of twelve miles had been cleared off.[263]

Colonel John H. Bliss, who was a boy at Fort Snelling when his father was in command during
the thirties, wrote that the winters "were undeniably tedious, but had their uses; we had a
good library, and I read a great deal, which has stood by me well; then there was of course
much sociability among the officers, and a great deal of playing of cards, dominoes, checkers,
and chess. The soldiers, too, would get up theatrical performances every fortnight or so, those
taking female parts borrowing dresses from the soldiers' wives, and making a generous sacrifice
to art of their cherished whiskers and mustaches."[264]

During October, 1836, Inspector General George Croghan visited Fort Snelling, and on the evening
of the seventh of the month the Thespian Players presented Monsieur Tonson in his honor. And
here, far from city streets and French barbers, on a rude stage, Jack Ardourly fell in love
with the beautiful Adolphine de Courcy--who probably only a few hours before had been hurrying
to finish a task of cleaning guns so that she could call on the generous women of the garrison
and beg from them capes and bonnets and hoops skirts![265]

Many of the officers were graduates of West Point, and their wives were from the best families
of the East and South. On January 20, 1831, the ladies and gentlemen of the garrison had a
party at the fort. "The room was tastefully decorated--- and the evening passed pleasantly".
On February 22nd of the same year the quarters of the commanding officer were the scene of
another party in commemoration of Washington's birthday.[266]

Efforts were made to provide for the education of the children of the fort. Mrs. Snelling at
first taught her own children; but it is evident that there was soon a tutor, as the correspondence
of Colonel Snelling shows that John Marsh received his board and seventy-five dollars for acting
as tutor during the winter of 1823-1824. This schoolmaster also carried the mail to Prairie
du Chien in return for forty dollars.[267] Soon after the appointment of a regular chaplain
in 1838 the post school was more thoroughly organized.[268]

Occasionally there was some excitement at the fort. During the month of February in 1831 there
was an epidemic of fires. First, the officers row of buildings caught on fire in the room of
Lieutenant Greenough on February 10th. On the next day a second fire broke out; and on February
24th the agency house took fire both from the inside and the outside in such a manner that
it was evident that an incendiary had been at work.[269]

But such events were of unusual occurrence. A letter written at Fort Snelling on February 11,
1842, pictures the usual winter life. "We of the garrison are as usual at this season rather
dull, stale & unprofitable--small parties for Tea are a good deal the fashion, & tattle is
used as formerly. Indian Ball plays are coming in season. One comes off today in which stacks
of property are to be invested. The Sioux have been hunting about Rum River this winter and
have killed great numbers of Dear--Our winter has been mild, one day only 30 below zero, and
the rest comfortable.... Tonight Mumford gives a Soiree to the good folks of the garrison and
this is the most exciting event of the week. What is the use of writing to you as I cannot
find enough wherewith to fill two pages."[270]

Such close confinement was tolerable when the garrison was composed of congenial spirits, but
occasionally it brought about dissensions and quarrels. Taliaferro on one occasion wrote that
the "Society here is not in the most pleasant State from a System of tatling which has been
reduced to a Science--not to be envied."[271] Occasionally open encounters took place. One
soldier stabbed another with a butcher's knife, and the victim died.[272] In February, 1826,
two officers of the garrison engaged in a duel.[273] Even those in authority were not free
from participation in these "affairs of honor". A certain young officer challenged Colonel
Snelling, and upon his refusing, his son, William Joseph Snelling, accepted and was slightly
wounded. When the officer was court-martialed he accused one of the witnesses of being an infidel.
Whereupon the latter challenged the officer in his turn, and a second duel was fought--which
was bloodless.[274]

With such conditions prevailing during the winter months it is no wonder that from day to day
spring was eagerly looked for. Undoubtedly it was a happy occasion when the agent could record
on the evening of Sunday, March 27, 1831, that the weather was "more pleasant--Wild geese seen
this day--gentlemen generally [illegible] out and Walking--The Ladies also".[275] It meant
a speedy return of summer pleasures and summer visitors. For when, even at a remote military
post did these fail as three sure signs of spring--pleasant weather, flocks of geese, and ladies
and gentlemen out walking together?

They were very human, those men and women of Old Fort Snelling.

VII

THE FORT AND INDIAN LIFE

It was a humane but visionary plan which Reverend Jedidiah Morse in 1822 presented to the Secretary
of War as the correct method of procedure in the task of civilizing the Indians. At various
centers in the Indian country were to be established "Education Families"--groups of honest,
industrious whites who were to have houses and farms, where the natives could observe their
activities. And without any forcing it was expected that the red men, seeing the superior advantages
of civilization, would be themselves gradually transformed.[276]

To the north and east of Fort Snelling was the home of the Chippewa or Ojibway Indians--extending
from the Mississippi to the Great Lakes. To the west, on the great prairies, the Dakota, or
Sioux Indians lived and hunted. The veteran missionary, S. W. Pond, estimated that the five
bands of Sioux, which most often came into direct touch with the government at Fort Snelling,
numbered in 1834, seven thousand, and wandered over southern Minnesota and South Dakota, near
the lakes of Big Stone and Traverse.[277] Major Taliaferro reported in 1834 that the number
of Indians in his agency was 6721, and that they extended as far as the Sheyenne fork of the
Red River.[278] To one man, the agent, was given the task of civilizing these thousands of
Sioux. While it was for this tribe that the agency at Fort Snelling was established, yet the
Chippewas often frequented its headquarters. One hundred and seventy warriors of these northern
Indians arrived at the agent's house on the evening of August 4, 1830.[279] The presence of
these red men more than doubled the work of the agent, because there was now the difficulty
of keeping peace between two warring tribes.

Indian life was not so worthless as sometimes pictured. It is true that one could see laziness
and poverty during the months of January and February, if he came upon an Indian village pitched
near a wooded slope and above a frozen stream. There could be seen the smoke curling from the
dingy tepee, the women dragging home wood for the ever-diminishing pile outside the door, and
a few of the hardier men fishing through holes in the ice. About the tepee the snow was banked,
and within the air was warm and heavy from the open fire and the long pipes of the reclining
braves, who gambled with their neighbors at the game of "the shot and the mitten".

Thus through the two stormy months the Indians frittered away the time, eating their corn and
wild rice seasoned with tallow. But when the first thaws of spring caused the sap in the maple
trees to run, and when some of the more venturesome came back from a winter visit to the trading
house with the word that the trader was waiting for skins in return for the blankets and ammunition
he had given them the preceding fall, the village divided--part going to the sugar bush, and
part going to the prairie lakes and swamps for muskrats. In May they returned on the swollen
streams with heavily freighted canoes to their villages of bark houses. During the summer there
were many tasks--blue berries to be gathered in the woods, canoes to be built, tepees to be
repaired, turnips to be dug, and pipestone to be brought from the far distant quarry. All through
the hot months the women toiled in the corn fields; and when the corn was in the milk, all
the village children screamed and waved their arms to frighten away the blackbirds. When the
harvest had been carefully placed in bark barrels and buried, part of the village had already
left to hunt the fox or gather wild rice along the lakes and cranberries in the marshes.

And now came October and the deer hunt. There were only the extremely old people and the invalids
to wave good-bye as the procession set out over the prairie--old men who could scarcely walk,
bands of shouting children, hunters already on the alert, women with their bundles, and horses
and dogs dragging on two poles the provisions and the skins of the tepees. For more than two
months the program was the same: the march through the drifts and across the icy rivers, the
morning council about a blazing fire before scattering over the prairie, and the triumphal
return of the successful hunter at evening with the carcass of a bear, deer, or elk, across
his shoulders and his name shouted through the camp by the children gathered to welcome him.
By January they were all back again at their villages.[280]

It was this scheme of life which was to be gradually transformed. There were, of course, variations
when war parties crept against the Chippewas, when drunken debaucheries resulted from a keg
of whiskey that had escaped the vigilant eyes of the soldiers, and when migrations to the Canadian
posts were prompted by the hope that there they could obtain enough supplies to support them
without work and that there they could enjoy some ceremony to break the monotony of life. But
these migrations were few on the part of the Sioux: they could enjoy councils just as good
near home.

On the occasion of a visit to Old Fort Snelling and the agency near by, the authorities were
careful to see that there was a due amount of ceremony. Probably a whole band of Indians would
come down from the headwaters of the Minnesota River. Their chiefs and braves gathered in the
log Council Hall, and there took place the scene so picturesquely described by the eccentric
traveller, J. C. Beltrami.

"The council-hall is, as it ought to be, a great room built of trunks of trees. The flag of
the United States waves in the centre, surrounded by English colours, and medals hung to the
walls. They are presented by the Indians to their Father, the agent, as a proof that they abjure
all cabal or alliance with the English. Pipes, or calumets and other little Indian presents,
offered by the various tribes as pledges of their friendship, decorate the walls and give a
remarkable and characteristic air to the room." The dignitaries of the post are seated about
a table and the braves recline upon the ground during the council.

"The séance opens with a speech of the chief, who rises and addresses the agent. He generally
begins with the Great Spirit, or the sun, or the moon 'whose purity is equalled by that of
his own heart,' &c. &c. always finishing with a petition for presents;--whiskey is sure to
find honourable mention: these are what English lawyers call the common counts."[281]

After the reply of the agent the peace pipe was solemnly passed from one to another, and the
council ended with the distribution of presents. These presents were of tobacco, gunpowder,
vermilion, pipes, kettles, blankets, snuff-boxes, armbands, looking-glasses, horse bells, jews'-harps,
ivory combs, and shawls.[282] Not the least popular of these were the jews'-harps, which had
their uses--in spite of the sarcastic invective delivered against them by Senator Benton in
1822 when the abolition of the Factory System was being considered. "They were innocent", observed
the Senator, "and on that account precisely adapted to the purposes of the superintendent,
in reclaiming the savage from the hunter state. The first state after that, in the road to
refined life, is the pastoral, and without music the tawny-colored Corydons and the red-skinned
Amaryllises, 'recubans sub tegmine fagi,' upon the banks of the Missouri and Mississippi, could
make no progress in the delightful business of love and sentiment."[283]

These councils were frequent occurrences, and their importance lies in the fact that through
them certain principles could be instilled into the minds of the natives under the most favorable
circumstances. The words spoken by the agent on these occasions had probably as much effect
in controlling the Indians as a like number of bullets would have had. Major Taliaferro has
recorded one of the orations which he delivered to his listening wards. He referred to the
presence of the Great Spirit, told of his long service among them, eulogized their departed
elders--"the old branches which have fallen from the Trunk of the old oak of your Nation"--and
then inserted a few wise admonitions as to the futility of their wars with the Chippewas.

"Your Great Father", he said, "has had much to do with war--but his heart is changed for peace
& he wishes all his red children as well as his white ones to follow his good example--he knows
this course to be best for all--we should endeavor to please him--for by doing so we shall
please the Great Spirit also--You will see your children growing up around you and your wives
smiling as you approach from your days hunt."

The speech ended with the announcement of the coming of "something good from below" and an
approaching visit to the village of the Red Head.[284]

During these meetings at the agency the sound of the fort's cannon and the sight of the well-uniformed
guards impressed the Indians even more than did the words of the agent. There they became acquainted
with white men other than traders, and when exploring and scientific expeditions came over
the plains with a guard of soldiers, they were wise enough not to interfere. These visits in
themselves were pleasant, and the rations of bread and pork offered an agreeable respite from
their usual fare.[285]

At the time of the treaty of Prairie du Chien in 1825 one ration consisted of one pound of
bread or one pint of corn and either one pound of beef or three-quarters of a pound of pork.
This may be taken as a fair standard of the kind of rations issued at the agency.[286] It was
during the winter months especially when starvation or suffering would otherwise result that
this aid was given to the Indians. During the summer when other means of subsistence were present,
all appeals for food were refused.[287] This custom of granting rations was formally incorporated
in the law of June 30, 1834, with the only restriction that they were to be given only if "they
can be spared from the army provisions without injury to the service".[288]

The condition of the tribes was often appalling, and many deaths would have occurred without
this aid. At one time Taliaferro wrote that "400 Indians encamped near the Agency--many from
a distance and in a starving condition."[289] Often he had to take from his own private funds,
after he had drawn all he could from the public stores.[290] The winter of 1842-1843 was particularly
severe. On the first of November the ground was covered with snow which as late as April still
lay from two to two and a half feet deep. No hunting was possible because of the drifts, and
fishing through the ice was impracticable, the wind blowing the holes full of snow as soon
as they were cut. The Indians living about Lac qui Parle, about two hundred miles up the Minnesota
River, came with the missionary Dr. Thomas Williamson to winter on the site of old Camp Cold
Water, knowing that only from the fort could they obtain relief.

Everything that was possible was done. Blankets, guns, and ammunition to the value of $2500
were granted the Indians. Indeed, so many provisions were distributed that on April 3rd it
was computed that there was only enough left to supply the garrison until the opening of navigation.
The officers and soldiers saved all the remains from the tables and once a day the squaws and
children were allowed to enter and receive these crumbs. The Indians who were away from the
post were not neglected. Sixty bushels of corn and several barrels of pork were furnished by
Major Dearborn to Mr. H. H. Sibley who sent them to destitute Indians on the Minnesota River.
Still there was much suffering, for not enough food could be spared to satisfy all. Before
spring arrived many of the Indians lived upon a syrup made of hickory chips and the boiled
bark of the bitter sweet. All became greatly emaciated and some were unable to walk.[291]

From time to time a solitary Indian on a business visit to the trader would drop in to chat
with the "Father". Here he could make any complaints which he had to offer and be sure of a
sympathetic if not satisfactory answer. "I have had more than fourteen hundred Indians on visits
from all Sections of this Agency during the Month past--and all with Grieveances of Some Sort
to redress", wrote Taliaferro on June 30, 1838.[292] In all matters concerning lands, hunting,
treaties, annuities, and the like, the Indian looked only to the agent for advice or explanation.
Instigated by the traders, many of whom were hostile to him, the Indians considered him responsible
for the acts of the soldiers.[293] If a provision of a treaty was not carried out, the Indians
thought it was Taliaferro's fault "for they know nothing of Congress or of their Multifarious
and protracted debates, and proceedings."[294]

A personal present was due the visitor at these "shake hands" occasions. If he were a headman
or a brave he received a pound of powder, two pounds of lead, a fish line, a knife, four fish
hooks, and six plugs of tobacco. If he were "any respectable Individual" he was sure of a knife,
four fish hooks, and six plugs of tobacco.[295] These individual visits did much to acquaint
the natives personally with the agent, in the same way that the council impressed them with
the agent's great power.

But even more appreciated was the help offered in time of sickness. On December 25, 1830, Taliaferro
records in his diary: "I rode up the SPeters to See an Indian.... Doctor Wood went up also--I
dressed her wound--I Sent my Interpreter up with other restoratives--she being delerious."[296]
On Saturday, June 28, 1834, there came to him a brave saying that both his son and daughter
were ill. "Sent a message to Doct Jarvis to call & see the girl." The Sioux boy died two days
later. But there the ministration did not end. To the mourners were given cotton and calico,
or a blanket in order that the body might be decently covered.[297]

The dread scourge of smallpox raged in the vicinity of Fort Snelling during the summer of 1832.
Two Indians coming from the Missouri River were suffering from violent attacks. Immediately
the disease spread. But Dr. Wood, the post's physician, was called upon by Major Taliaferro
and at the end of five days three hundred and thirty Sioux had been vaccinated. It is interesting
to notice that in case the Indians came to the agency Dr. Wood received six dollars for every
hundred he treated, but if he went to their villages he received six dollars per day.[298]

Besides these services the visits to the fort offered direct opportunity for the giving of
tangible evidence of American supremacy. The English government had lavishly distributed signs
of authority. During the first two years of his term of service, Taliaferro collected no less
than thirty-six medals of George the Third, twenty-eight British flags, and eighteen gorgets.[299]
Some of these were presented to the agent as direct evidence of submission to American authority.
In 1820 two employees of the Missouri Fur Company were murdered on the Missouri River. The
surrender of the murderers was demanded by Taliaferro, and while he was away the tribe came
to Fort Snelling with one of the culprits and a hostage. Colonel Snelling, then acting as agent,
described the scene in a letter.

"These unfortunate wretches were delivered up last evening with a great deal of ceremony, &
I assure you with affecting solemnity; the guards being first put under arms, they formed a
procession in the road beyond the bake house; in front marched a Sussitong bearing a British
flag, next came the Murderer & the devoted chief, their arms pinioned & large splinters of
wood thrust through them above the elbows, intended as I understood to show us that they did
not fear pain & were not afraid to die. the Murderer wore a large British medal suspended to
his neck & both of the prisoners bore offerings of skins, &c. in their hands. last came the
chiefs of the Sussitongs, in this order they moved, the prisoners singing their death song
& the Sussitongs joining in chorus until they arrived in front of the guard house where a fire
being previously prepared, the British flag was burnt, and the medal worn by the murderer given
up."[300]

In return for these greatly coveted signs of respect the agent delivered to the most prominent
chiefs the medals and certificates of the United States. And thus by flattering the leaders
control over the Indians was assured. What chief was not proud to carry with him this certificate,
even if he could not read it himself? "The bearer The Whole in the day is a respectable Man,
and wears a Seccond Size Monroe Medal Presented to him for his uniform Good Conduct and great
attachment to the United States--His Residence is at Sandy Lake Law Taliaferro Indian Agent
at St. Peters".[301]

But the memory of the days of English rule was still alive, the suggestion being made to the
government that "the gordgets would be More Acceptable were they to be fashioned after those
introduced formerly by the British Government--with the difference only of the Eagle engraved
upon each."[302] To counteract this feeling it was necessary that the government should be
lavish in the distribution of presents. British influence and example, wrote Taliaferro to
Clark in 1831, were not yet "fairly purged of their baneful effects".[303] Even as late as
1834 a few extracts from the reports of Major Bliss indicate that this feeling was still noticeable.
"The Sioux Indians expecting and favourable to an English war with the U. States", he wrote
in April. The next month he reported "Sioux and Chippewas pacific but dissatisfied with U.
States", and in July 1835 he informed headquarters that "the Chippewas & Sioux are dissatisfied
& both exhibit symptoms of hostility to the U. States & to each other. The Sioux the most decided."[304]

English visitors at a much later period congratulated their government because the Indians,
as they said, still had a greater fondness for the British than for the Americans.[305] Except,
however, along the border, among the tribes outside of the sphere of the agent at Fort Snelling,
this feeling manifested itself only as a sentiment which could lead to trouble if a break between
the two nations should occur.

To emphasize the power of the Nation, the agent brought to Washington in 1824, and again in
1837, delegations of chiefs.[306] On these occasions they were taken to the largest and busiest
cities, entertained in the most delightful manner, and shown the most impressive sights. As
crowds were always drawn together to see the Indians, the latter received a lasting opinion
as to the numbers of the Americans.[307] Previously the Sioux bands had thought that if ever
they should unite their forces, they would be able to win in a war against all the whites;
but now they were disillusioned.[308]

Undoubtedly the Indians were pleased with their journey. "Since the treaty was signed", stated
a contemporary newspaper, "each of them has received a coat, hat, blanket, leggins, epaulettes,
bands, and scarfs, and when dressed in full uniform, they exhibit more lively pleasure than
would have been expected from the apathy of Indian character."[309] The magnificence which
they had seen was described amid the squalor of their home villages. "The effect produced by
the visit of their chiefs to Washington is wonderful, since their return, the power, wealth,
and numbers of the American people have been their constant themes, many of their stories approach
so near the marvellous as to be discredited, such for example is the account of casting a cannon
which they witnessed, and the magnitude of our ships. Old black dog shakes his head & says
'all travellers are liars'."[310] The memory of these trips lingered long. Little Crow came
to call upon the agent in 1831. "The old chief left much delighted with his reception and my
Talk--he departed singing the song which was often repeated when on his trip to Washington
City in 1824."[311]

The Indians touched by these relations with the fort were not only its immediate neighbors.
The surrender of murderers from the tribes on the Missouri has been noted. On March 11, 1831,
Taliaferro wrote that "I observe Indians from the Missouri & various sections of the Sioux
country."[312] During the entire winter of 1831, a party of Missouri River Indians encamped
about Fort Snelling.[313] The Indians on the prairies were wide travellers. "There are a good
many Indians about here", says a letter from Lac qui Parle. "There have arrived 120 lodges
of Missouri at Lake Traverse and 200 lodges at James River."[314] By this continual movement,
the influence of Fort Snelling was enlarged.

How great was this influence? No one has contradicted the statement of Mr. Taliaferro that
"it is due the Sioux of your territory to record one fact as to them, and that is, from the
commencement of our agency to its close, our frontier pioneers were never even molested in
their homes, nor did they shed one drop of American blood".[315] It was when this frontier
encroached on their lands that hostility broke out. If the Indians had been left in peace by
covetous land-seekers, their civilization might in time have been accomplished.

There was practically no hostility manifested against the garrison by the surrounding Indians.
In January, 1822, Colonel McNeil, who was in command at Fort Dearborn, received word from John
Kinzie, the pioneer Chicago trader, that the Sioux and Fox Indians were planning an attack
on Fort Snelling. Lieutenant James Webb immediately volunteered to bring the news to Fort Armstrong
on Rock Island, from whence it could be sent to the upper post. After a journey rendered terrible
by the extreme cold and the danger from hostile Indians, he was successful in reaching Fort
Armstrong.[316]

In due time the letter was delivered to Colonel Snelling. "When I first received Col McNeils
letter," he wrote later, "I was disposed to smile at the absurdity of connecting the Sioux
& Foxes, in a design to attack this post". But he later found out that the Foxes had sent wampum
and tobacco to the bands of Wabasha and Little Crow, asking them not to stand in the way of
any movements they might make. Wabasha accepted the wampum but Little Crow came to the fort
to make known the danger. The vagueness of the rumors, however, made it impossible to act,
and later developments showed that there was no truth in the report--at least no violence was
attempted.[317]

Fear of the strength of the fort prevented hostilities.  It was the Indian fashion to attack
by ambush. They did not have the patience to endure a protracted siege. The Americans did not
belittle the strength of the military works. Little Thunder and White Head, two Indians who
had escaped from the jail at Mackinac by cutting through the log walls, met an American, George
Johnson, at Lac du Flambeau. They were very inquisitive about the strength of Fort Snelling
and the number of Americans stationed there. Regarding this incident the white man wrote: "I
answered saying, that the fort at River St. Peters was as strong as Quebec, and more Americans
there than in any other post."[318]

The government did not adopt Dr. Morse's plan for civilizing the Indians, but the agent tried
to carry out the policy therein suggested. The colony at Eatonville, located on Lake Calhoun,
and the Indian schools soon passed into the hands of the missionaries. After the making of
treaties a blacksmith shop was added to the agency. In line with his policy of providing for
all classes of Indians, Taliaferro urged the erection of an orphan asylum where "all poor blind,
and helpless women" would also be accommodated.[319]

If time had been given doubtless a new form of Indian life would have arisen about the fort;
but the coming of the land-seekers destroyed the plan. The failure was to result in a great
massacre in 1862. This much at least can be said for Old Fort Snelling; it kept the Indians
friendly while the foundations of American life were being laid in the Northwest.

VIII

THE SIOUX-CHIPPEWA FEUDS

One of the reasons given for the building of Fort Snelling was that it would prevent the disastrous
wars existing between the Sioux and Chippewa Indians.[320] Beginning so far in the past that
no cause could be ascribed for the hostility, each encounter was in itself both the result
of preceding conflicts and the excuse for further warfare. Pierre Esprit de Radisson, who was
the first writer to leave an account of the Chippewas, said that even at the time of his visit
in about 1660 they were carrying on "a cruell warre against the Nadoueseronoms [Sioux]."[321]

Lurking in the bushes to waylay their enemies on the woodland paths, hiding on the river banks
to intercept hostile canoes, pretending peace and enjoying hospitality in order to have an
opportunity for treachery were the military tactics of the Sioux and Chippewa warriors. To
prevent such warfare, a military post was almost powerless. In fact, so insidious was the hostility
that even the very grounds of Fort Snelling were the scene of bloody encounters.

Attempts were made to keep the Chippewas away from Fort Snelling by attaching them to the agency
of H. R. Schoolcraft at Sault Ste. Marie.[322] But the distance was so great and the route
so difficult that the Chippewas did not make the journey to consult that agent. On the other
hand, Fort Snelling was so close, and the Mississippi such a natural outlet from their country,
that a trader declared that "you might as well try to Stop the Water in the Mississippi from
going to St Louis, as attempt to keep the Chippeway Indians from St Peters."[323]

During the last days of the month of May, 1827, Flat Mouth, chief of the Sandy Lake band of
Chippewa Indians was encamped near Fort Snelling. A number of men, women, and children were
with him, bringing maple sugar, which they had gathered in the northern woods during the winter,
and other articles to sell to the garrison. Major Taliaferro was away at the time, but on May
24th the steamboat "Pilot" landed him safely at Fort Snelling. To welcome their "Father" home,
and perchance to see if he had any presents or promises for them, a large number of Sioux came
from their villages to the fort, as was usual on such occasions. The agent took the opportunity
presented by the presence of both Sioux and Chippewas to deliberate with them in regard to
peace, and also to request the Chippewas not to visit Fort Snelling again, in accordance with
instructions which he had received from the Indian Department. To this Flat Mouth replied sorrowfully:
"I feel myself now like a Dog driven away from your door to find another--I am ashamed of this--but
I know you are doing this not by your wish."[324]

The twenty-eighth day of the month proved the value of the advice Major Taliaferro had given.
Several Sioux came to visit at a Chippewa lodge pitched directly under and in front of the
agency house on the flats that border the Minnesota River. The guns of the fort could easily
have been trained upon the spot. There was feasting and friendly revelry at the lodge that
afternoon and evening. Meat, corn, and sugar were served in wooden platters; a dog was roasted
and eaten. The peace pipe was smoked, and the conversation was peaceful regarding exploits
in the hunt and the chase.

At nine o'clock when the party broke up, as the Chippewas were calling friendly good-byes to
the departing Sioux who had advanced a few steps, the latter turned and fired into the midst
of the unsuspecting inhabitants of the tepee. There was instant confusion. With a shout of
triumph the Sioux ran off. The sentinel on the hill above heard the shots and cries and called
for the guard. In a few moments there was at the gate of the fort a crowd of panic-stricken
Chippewas carrying their wounded and crying for protection. Six men, one woman, and a girl
about eight years old were handed over to the surgeon of the post, Doctor McMahon.

Immediately Major Taliaferro notified the Sioux that they had insulted the flag that waved
over the land, and that ample satisfaction must be made to the Chippewas who had been treated
in such a cowardly manner. In council with the agent, Strong Earth, a chief of the Chippewas,
complained of the lack of protection: "Father: You know that two Summers ago we attended a
Great Council at Prairie du Chien, when by the advice of Our White Friends, we made Peace with
the Sioux--We were then told, that the Americans would Guarantee our Safety under their Flags--We
have Come here under that Assurance. But Father, look at Your Floor it is stained with the
blood of our people shed while under Your Walls. If you are great and powerful why do You not
protect us? If Not, of what use are Your Soldiers?"[325]

On the morning following the massacre a large body of Sioux--estimated at about three hundred
and fifty--appeared on the prairie west of the fort. Brevet Major Fowle was ordered to march
against them with two companies. Upon his appearance they fled, but he followed and was successful
in capturing some of them. Nine Sioux--one of whom Major Taliaferro reports was given up voluntarily--were
delivered up to the Chippewas. Identifying two of these as being among the murderers, they
requested permission to execute them immediately.

Upon the broad prairie the two prisoners were given their freedom. They were told to run, and
when a few paces away the Chippewa warriors fired, and the Sioux fell dead. Then followed a
hideous scene which a spectator described many years later. "The bodies, all warm and limp,
are dragged to the brow of the hill. Men who at the sight of blood, become almost fiends, tear
off the reeking scalps and hand them to the chief, who hangs them around his neck. Women and
children with tomahawks and knives cut deep gashes in the poor dead bodies, and scooping up
the hot blood with their hands, eagerly drink it; then, grown frantic, they dance, and yell,
and sing their horrid scalp songs, recounting deeds of valor on the part of their brave men,
and telling off the Sioux scalps, taken in different battles, until tired and satiated at last
with their horrid feast, they leave the mutilated bodies--festering in the sun."[326] At evening
the bodies were thrown over the cliff into the river below.

On the morning of the thirty-first the Sioux delivered up to the Chippewas two others who,
they claimed, had been the principal men in the affair. If the Chippewas did not shoot them,
they said, they would do it themselves, as trouble had come to their nation on their account.
But the Chippewas were willing.

About this second execution there has grown up an interesting story. One of the offenders,
Toopunkah Zeze, was a favorite among the children of the fort. Tall and handsome and athletic
and brave, he was the ideal of Indian manhood. The other, called the Split Upper Lip, was well
known as a thief, and was as much detested as his companion was respected. He cried and begged
for his life, saying that his gun had missed fire--he had killed no one. The other calmly distributed
his clothes among his friends, upbraiding his companion for his cowardice. "You lie, dog. Coward,
old woman, you know that you lie. You know that you are as guilty as I am.  Hold your peace
and die like a man--die like me."

The two were brought out upon the prairie. Again the thirty yards were allowed; again the Chippewa
guns were fired. For once it seemed that this Indian punishment of "running the gantlet" would
lose a victim. For Toopunkah Zeze was still running. The bullet had cut the rope that bound
him to his falling companion. With new hope he leaped forward. There was a shout of triumph
from a group of Sioux hidden in the bushes; and the children of the fort, who had climbed upon
the buildings to view the bloody scene from afar, clapped their hands. But the Chippewas were
cool in their vengeance. Guns were reloaded and deliberate aim taken. The flints struck, and
Toopunkah Zeze, now a hundred and fifty yards away and a second's distance from a place where
the straggling groves of the prairie offered life, fell dead. Two more bodies were thrown over
the precipice into the river.[327]

For ten years the hostility continued, but the environs of the fort were sacred places. An
effective lesson had been taught in 1827. But on August 2, 1838, Hole-in-the-Day, a Chippewa
chief, and five of his band came to Fort Snelling on a visit. That spring there had been a
treacherous massacre by Hole-in-the-Day at a Sioux camp. It was true, as he said in the poetic
simplicity of Indian style: "You See I cannot keep my face Clean--as fast as it is Washed--I
am Compelled to black it Again.--but My heart towards you is the Same.--My Fathers Bones Sleep
by your house--My Daughter at the Falls Near the Grave of my Uncle--My Wife lies at the Mouth
of Sauk River--and a few days past I buried My Son."[328]

On the following evening some Sioux of Mud Lake, hearing of the presence of the Chippewas,
rode over to Baker's trading house where the Chippewas were encamped. Major Taliaferro had
heard of the departure of the war party and had hurried to the scene. Just as he arrived the
Sioux fired upon their enemies, killing one outright and wounding another in the knee. All
but one of the Chippewas had laid aside their guns, thinking that they were upon neutral ground.
This one, seeing a Sioux in the act of scalping the fallen Chippewa, fired upon him and wounded
him mortally. But aided by the dusk the wounded Sioux was able to run more than a mile before
he fell from loss of blood.

The Chippewas were immediately brought into the fort for protection. On the next day Major
Plympton and the Indian agent called together the chiefs of the neighboring villages. There
was a long council until Major Plympton broke it up by saying peremptorily: "It is unnecessary
to talk much. I have demanded the guilty--they must be brought."

At half past five that evening the Sioux were delivered up. Three brothers had been accused
of being guilty of the murder. One of them could not be brought because he was dying of the
wound received the evening before. Much ceremony attended the proceedings as the Indian mother
led her sons to the officers saying: "Of seven sons three only are left; one of them is wounded,
and soon will die, and if the two now given up are shot, my all is gone. I called on the head
men to follow me to the Fort. I started with the prisoners, singing their death song, and have
delivered them at the gate of the Fort. Have mercy on them for their youth and folly."[329]

Because of the attack which Hole-in-the-Day had made on the Sioux a short time before, Major
Plympton decided not to execute the prisoners. They were turned over to their own people to
be flogged in the presence of the officers. More humiliating than death was their punishment.
Their blankets, leggins, and breech-cloths were cut into small pieces, and finally the braves
whipped them with long sticks while the women stood about crying.[330]

Although there was now a deep desire for revenge in each of the tribes, they manifested outward
friendliness when they met at the fort. During the month of June, 1839, there came to Fort
Snelling over twelve hundred Chippewas thinking that there they would be paid their annuities
for the land they had ceded in 1837. There were two main groups--one which came down from the
headwaters of the Mississippi, and the other which came up the river from the vicinity of the
St. Croix. At the same time Sioux numbering eight hundred and seventy were encamped near the
agency. This was considered an opportune time to conclude a peace, and so the long calumet
with its mixture of tobacco and bark of the willow tree was smoked while friendly athletic
contests were held on the prairie. On July 1st the two parties of Chippewas started for home.
But in one of the bands were the two sons of the man who had been murdered the year before.
In the evening before beginning their homeward journey, they visited the graveyard of the fort
to cry over the grave of their father. Here the thought of vengeance came to them, and morning
found them hidden in the bushes near the trail that skirted the shore of Lake Harriet. The
Badger, a Sioux warrior, was the first to pass that way as he went out in the early morning
to hunt pigeons. A moment later he was shot and scalped. The murderers then hurried away and
hid behind the water at Minnehaha Falls.

A few hours later, when the news had spread throughout all the Sioux villages, two bands set
out to take revenge upon the departing Chippewas. The old men, the women, and the children
remained at home, eagerly awaiting the result of the coming battle and cutting their arms and
legs with their knives in grief over the losses which they knew their bands would have to undergo.

It happened that at that time the Right Reverend Mathias Loras, the first Bishop of Dubuque,
was at Fort Snelling. He had been an interested spectator at the Sioux-Chippewa peace parleys,
had watched the departure of the determined avengers, and now was anxiously awaiting the result
of the conflict. On the morning of July 4th as he was praying at his altar for the prosperity
of his country he was startled by the shrill notes of the Sioux death-song,  and gazing through
the window saw a bloody throng, dancing about the long poles from which dangled scalps with
parts of the skulls still attached. Two terrible struggles had taken place the day before.
On the Rum River seventy Chippewa scalps had been taken, and on the banks of Lake St. Croix
twenty-five more were obtained. In both cases the losses of the Sioux were smaller. These trophies
were brought to the villages, where they were danced about nightly until the leaves began to
fall in the autumn, when they were buried.[331]

These incidents which centered about Fort Snelling have led to the charge made against it,
that instead of preventing the conflicts the fort intensified them. The fort was a convenient
meeting place, it is argued, whither both parties resorted only to become involved in altercations
and disputes which resulted in a flaring-up of old flames.[332] But it must be remembered that
the murders away from the fort were more numerous;[333] and it is easier to recall the spectacular
encounters which occurred at the fort, than the many occasions when the two tribes met peacefully
as the guests of the officials.

A military officer who was stationed there wrote: "At Fort Snelling I have seen the Sioux and
Chippeways in friendly converse, and passing their pipes in the most amicable manner when if
they had met away from the post each would have been striving for the other's scalp."[334]
The Indian agent, whose success depended upon the continuation of peace, noted with pleasure
these friendly gatherings.  "The Crane and the Hole in the Day--and other Chippeways at the
Agency this day--Several Sissiton Sioux also at the Agency."[335] These visits were often protracted
for several weeks without trouble. "Chippeways--a number of these people also at the agency--some
have been here for nearly 30 days--fishing & liveing better & more independently than the Sioux."[336]
On the 29th and 30th of June, 1831, Chippewas to the number of one hundred and fifty met five
villages of Sioux.[337]

Efforts to combat the evil were made in council with the Indians. "Your wars with the Chippeways
can never be of service to anyone", reasoned their "Father", "for as fast as you destroy one--two
or three more young men are ready to take the track of their deceased friends--The old people
among you ought to know this--after the long wars between you".[338] Most of the encounters
took place either when the warriors were emboldened by liquor, or when the rival hunting parties
met on the plains. The strict enforcement of the law of 1832 prohibiting the introduction of
spirits had a tranquilizing effect in the country of the Chippewas. Indeed, the principal object
of all efforts to suppress the liquor traffic was the prevention of inter-tribal wars.[339]

Constant watching of the hunting parties and admonition as to their conduct were among the
duties of the agent. "Sent my interpreter up the Mississippi among the Indians", he writes,
"to see how they are progressing in their hunts and as to the present hunting grounds of the
Chippeways."  Eight days later record is made of the fact that "the Rum River Chippeways left
for their camp this morning--Sent word to their people to hunt on their own Lands & not by
any Means to intrude upon the Soil of the Sioux." When the interpreter returned he reported
that everything was quiet between the two tribes.[340] The sending of "runners" to the camps
was a frequent occurrence during the winter of 1831, the region covered being eighty miles
to the east and two hundred miles to the north.[341]

In the treaty of Prairie du Chien of 1825 a dividing line between the two tribes, beyond which
neither should pass, was agreed upon.[342] But this provision was for many years a dead letter.
As long as the line was unsurveyed the natives could urge indefiniteness of territory as an
excuse for murder and depredations--claiming that the other party was the trespasser. When
Schoolcraft met the chiefs of the Chippewas in council at Leech Lake in 1832, the latter complained
that the provisions of the treaty had not been carried out. "The words of the Long-knives have
passed through our forests as a rushing wind, but they have been words merely. They have only
shaken the trees, but have not stopped to break them down, nor even to make the rough places
smooth."[343] As a result Mr. Schoolcraft urged upon the Secretary of War the necessity of
marking the line.[344]

Seven thousand dollars were appropriated by the act of June 26, 1834, for the purpose of running
this line,[345] and the next spring Major J. L. Bean, accompanied by Duncan Campbell, the Sioux
interpreter of the agency, commenced the survey.[346] Later an escort of troops from Fort Snelling
was sent him under the command of Lieutenant William Storer, with the result that the reduced
garrison was unable to enforce order.[347] When the survey had been completed from the Chippewa
River to Otter Tail Lake the return of the military escort put an end to the work, but the
agent was of the opinion that the most important part had been marked.[348]

Efforts were made by the government to keep down the warlike spirit of the tribes. Thus, when
Captain Gale allowed the Indians to come into the fort and dance the scalp dance in June, 1830,
his act was disapproved of, and he had to stand trial.[349] Likewise peace conferences were
fostered in order to put the seal of the authority of the government upon the transactions.
During the winter of 1831 truces were made between several of the bands through the efforts
of Agent Taliaferro.[350] On August 2, 1843, a great gathering of the two nations was held
at the fort, where a treaty of peace was drawn up under the auspices of the civil and military
authorities.[351] During the first year it was kept inviolate, "if we except two or three individual
cases of outrage."[352]

Even as late as June, 1850, an assemblage of both tribes was called together by Governor Ramsey.
The Chippewas were encamped north of the fort on the bluff above the Mississippi. In front
of them a detachment of infantry was drawn up. Within the fort the artillery was in readiness.
When word was sent to the Sioux that all things were ready, they approached, about three hundred
strong, on horseback, all armed and painted, their whoops mingling with the jingling of their
arms, ornaments, and the bells of their horses. Making a feint as if to rush around the soldiers,
they suddenly wheeled to one side and became quiet; while the Chippewas on the other side of
the line of infantry continued to dance and wave their weapons. It was amid such stirring war-like
scenes that attempts for peace were made.[353]

The earliest policy of the government had been to interfere as little as possible, and to allow
retribution to be made by one tribe on another. But such inactivity did not appeal to a red-blooded
officer like Colonel Snelling, who wrote after the trouble in 1827: "I have no hesitation in
Saying that the Military on this frontier are useless for want of discretionary power, and
that if it is not intrusted to the Commander, Men of Straw with Wooden Guns and Swords will
answer the purpose as well as a Regt of Infantry."[354]

But later the policy was adopted of confining in the "Black Hole" of the fort any culprits
who were captured. Thirteen of the Sioux who participated in a massacre at Apple River were
imprisoned;[355] and on one occasion Little Crow's band performed the scalp dance near Fort
Snelling in commemoration of the murder of two Chippewas, while the murderers themselves languished
in the fort.[356] Probably this method of dealing with the problem would have been adopted
earlier; but "the force at this point", wrote an officer, "has been too small to send a sufficient
force to take the offenders, even should an order to that effect be issued."[357]

To determine how influential Fort Snelling was in maintaining order is impossible. As was the
case with the liquor traffic, conditions were bad but could have been worse. From time to time
there were events that indicated some success. After a peace had been concluded on the fourth
of June, 1823, a small quarrel almost precipitated a general conflict on the sixth. Much to
the chagrin of the Italian traveller, J. C. Beltrami, who was then a guest at the fort, the
officers were successful in preventing bloodshed. "Everything conspired against my poor notes",
he wrote, "I had already perched myself on an eminence for the purpose of enriching them with
an Indian battle, and behold I have nothing to write but this miserable article!... I almost
suspected that the savages were in a league with the gentlemen of the fort to disappoint me."[358]

Peace was maintained during the winter of 1831 on a line of three hundred and forty miles above
and below Fort Snelling, and on one occasion there occurred the pleasant sight of Sioux and
Chippewas departing in company for their hunting grounds on the Sauk River.[359] Man-of-the-sky,
who was chief of the Lake Calhoun band of Sioux, boasted that although he was only twenty-five
years old at the time, he had already killed six Chippewas when Fort Snelling was erected,
and added: "Had it not been for that I should have killed many more, or have been myself killed
ere this."[360] It is interesting to note in connection with the sacredness of these treaties
the comment of Major Taliaferro that "much more reliance is to be placed in the good faith
of the Chippeways than in that of the Sioux."[361]

These spasmodic successes at least acquainted the Indians with governmental restraint. A paragraph
from the manuscript diary of the agent refutes the argument that Fort Snelling intensified
rather than alleviated these struggles. "From January 1833 up to this day", wrote Taliaferro,
"there has been no difficulty between the Sioux and Chippeways--I once kept these tribes at
peace for two years and Six Months lacking 15 days. And this between the years 1821 & 1825
till June 8th of the latter year. Colonel Robert Dickson remarked to me that Such a thing had
never occurred before even when he headed the tribes against Us in the War of 1812."[362]

IX

THE FUR TRADE

The Indian trading-house which had been planned for the agency at Fort Snelling never materialized.
Failure of the houses in operation to pay expenses and the opposition of the private traders
led to their abolition in 1822. Thereafter, whatever attention the government directed toward
the trade was influenced by the desire to prevent tampering with the allegiance of the Indians
on the part of foreigners and to control this traffic which could contribute so much good or
so much evil to the lives of the government's wards.[363]

With the Indian trade left to the private traders, great trading companies developed, since
the fur trade easily lent itself to the corporation system. Coöperation in the marketing of
furs and in the buying of goods eliminated many of the difficulties which a single individual
would meet. The American Fur Company, so long guided by John Jacob Astor, had a practical monopoly
of the trade during the time that Old Fort Snelling was in existence. Mendota was the headquarters
of a vast region which extended from the Mississippi to the headwaters of the streams flowing
into the Missouri. At various places throughout this territory were trading posts called "forts",
although they consisted of no more than a few huts within a stockade. These were all subsidiary
to the post at Mendota.

Goods for the Indian trade were much the same as those given as presents by the government
officials--blankets, trinkets, tobacco, knives, and the like. These goods were sent in great
Mackinac boats from the East to be distributed among the posts. Each Indian hunter received
on credit goods valued at forty or fifty dollars in payment for which he pledged the spoils
of his winter's hunt. If the trader did not go with his band, he visited them occasionally
or sent his engagés to see that they were hunting and that no other trader was tampering with
them to secure their furs. In the spring the Indian would deliver furs valued at twice the
amount of the goods received. The trading company's profit was, accordingly, about one hundred
per cent. To carry out the details of the traffic there grew up within the company a complicated
system of factors, clerks, voyageurs, and hivernants.[364]

With the entire system of the fur trade the military officials had little to do except in the
matter of regulation. Not much military protection was necessary as the Indian looked upon
the trader more as a friend than an enemy.[365] Care in respect to the character of the men
engaged and supervision of the method of carrying on trade were the two things necessary. According
to the act of March 30, 1802, which was supplemented by the acts of April 29, 1816, and June
30, 1834, no one could carry on trade with the Indians without obtaining a license from an
Indian agent, which was subject to revocation by the superintendent of the district.[366]

Many were the problems which Major Taliaferro was obliged to consider when he granted a license.
A license was valid for trade only at a certain place and among a certain tribe. The trader
must be an American citizen. He was not allowed to carry with him any insignia of a foreign
power. An invoice of his goods was presented to the agent, who had to certify to its correctness.
Liquor was prohibited, and the trader was responsible for the conduct of all the members of
his party in this matter. To guarantee the fulfillment of all these requirements, bond had
to be given at the time of obtaining the permit.[367]

To examine all the applicants, to keep in touch with them in the field, and to obtain the truth
in regard to their conduct was enough to keep both agent and officers at Fort Snelling busy.
In 1826 twenty-five licenses were granted; in 1827, eleven; in 1830, thirteen; and in 1831,
fourteen.[368] The amount of this trade was very large, as is indicated by the case of Mr.
Faribault who traded on the Cannon River. One year he marketed 50 buffalo-robes, 39,080 muskrats,
2050 pounds of deer skins, 125 pounds of beaver, 130 martin, 1100 mink, 663 raccoons, 331 otter,
25 lynx, and 5 foxes.[369]

There was a great deal of vagueness as to the application of the trade laws--"a mist of uncertainty"
as Taliaferro called it.[370] Governor Cass of Michigan Territory allowed foreigners to enter
into expeditions as interpreters or boatmen, who upon entering the wilderness took active charge
of the crew and all operations.[371] As far as Fort Snelling was concerned there was little
call for the ejection of foreigners by force. In 1833 it was rumored that a foreigner was trading
on the Sheyenne River--a tributary of the Red River. But with the despatch of a company of
troops and the rumor of their approach, the culprit immediately decamped.[372]

The building of the fort was in itself enough to impress British subjects with the firmness
of the United States government. Joseph Renville, Kenneth McKenzie, and William Laidlaw, former
employees of the English companies, in 1822 organized the Columbia Fur Company, and obtained
a license from Major Taliaferro. In five years they had posts from Green Bay to the Missouri
River, with their headquarters at Land's End, a short distance up the Minnesota River from
Fort Snelling. But in 1827 a union with the American Fur Company was brought about.[373]

Traders licensed by the agent at Fort Snelling covered the territory as far west as the Missouri
River. No post could be established without his approval; and he even attempted to regulate
the form in which the establishment should be built.[374] On the whole, coöperation between
the factors of the fur companies and the officials at the post was desired by both parties.
The most notable disagreement is that which existed between Alexis Bailly, the chief factor
at Mendota, and Major Taliaferro. This disagreement continued until September 15, 1834, when
the agent reported that he had refused to allow Bailly to hold further intercourse with the
natives, "not only in Consequence of his bad tongue, but on account also of his frequent Violations
of the intercourse laws". In this action he was seconded by the authorities of the fur company,
who sent Mr. H. H. Sibley to fill Mr. Bailly's place.[375] The pleasant relations which existed
between Mr. Sibley and all the government officials--civil and military--is one of the charming
chapters in the history of the fort.[376]

Intimately connected with the fur trade was the liquor traffic. Not that the traders were always
responsible for the introduction of the tabooed commodity, but they were connected with it
to such an extent as to be always under suspicion. Nor was the attitude of the government consistent.
When Pike ascended the Mississippi he spoke of the evil effects of rum to the chiefs who ceded
to the United States the military reservation; but the explorer closed with the words: "before
my departure I will give you some liquor to clear your throats."[377] Even Taliaferro, foe
that he was of liquor, knew its power. When a neighboring chief and thirty of his men visited
the agency, he recorded: "After council--gave him 30 Rats Bread--50 Rats Pork--10 lbs Tobacco--3
gallons of whiskey--the last for good Conduct towards the Chippeways."[378]

Liquor was an important asset in carrying on the fur trade. The object was to please the red
man,  not to stupefy him to such an extent that he could be swindled. With the growth of the
great companies and the influx of numbers of private traders there were many bidders for each
Indian's furs. Complaint was continual that the British traders about the Lake of the Woods
successfully offered whiskey as an inducement to get the trade of the American Indians.[379]
Governor Cass, thinking it would be worse to lose the trade than admit the liquor, allowed
its introduction, in "limited quantities", by those engaged in business along the boundary.[380]
But the act of July 9, 1832, provided, that "no ardent spirits shall be hereafter introduced,
under any pretence, into the Indian country."[381] This put an end to the stock excuse. At
the same time Americans suffered to such an extent that Mr. Norman W. Kittson at Pembina wanted
permission to destroy all liquor and punish all offenders, promising "that very little would
be introduced after a short time".[382] So acute was the difficulty that it became the subject
of diplomatic correspondence with Great Britain; but the authorities of the Hudson's Bay Company
retorted that "spirits are even clandestinely introduced into the Company's territories by
citizens of the United States."[383]

During the first years stringent measures were in force at the mouth of the Minnesota River.
At Prairie du Chien, Taliaferro had seen the barrels rolled out from the river vessels and
they foretold to him coming murders and depredations. His coöperating friend, Colonel Snelling,
graphically described its evil effects. "Herds of Indians", he said, "are drawn together by
the fascinations of whisky, and they exhibit the most degraded picture of human nature I ever
witnessed."[384] The drunken Indian did not molest the trader; his peaceful fellow-tribesman
suffered more. "An Indian killed at Al [?] Faribault's Trading house--whiskey was given the
Indian for his furs--by Mr. F.--The deceased then invited one of his friends to drink with
him--the invitation was accepted--when this friend becoming inflamed with the Liquor very inhospitably
sunk his Tomahawk into the head of his host--whiskey it is said does no harm in the Trade by
persons interested--but the foregoing is only one of the many hundred fatal occurrences from
its use in procuring furs unlawfully."[385]

In fact, the Indians were continually agitated. If they received the spirits they naturally
revelled. When their supply was exhausted they raged and fumed until they secured more. Sometimes
the disease was more desirable than the cure. "I have thus far seen but few of the indians
of this place and I am in hopes of passing on North without much trouble there has just arrived
a fresh supply of whiskey which will keep them busy for a few days and by that time my carts
will be almost out of their reach."[386]

The eagerness for liquor on the part of the Indians made its introduction all the more easy.
For it they were willing to pay much: eight horses were at one time exchanged for eight kegs
of whiskey,[387] and the current rate at which it sold is indicated by the complaint which
a Chippewa chief poured into the ears of the agent: "My Father--Is it right for our traders
to make us pay 200 Musk Rats, and 3 otters for a 3 gallon keg of mixed whiskey?"[388] They
would undergo extreme physical suffering, lying out in the rain and wading rivers and swamps,
to bring the precious liquid to their villages.[389]

The officers were never successful in entirely banishing the prohibited article. Conditions
depended upon the eagerness of the military and civil agents, on the number of soldiers stationed
at the fort, and on the wiliness of the culprits. On one occasion liquor "was found secreted
in barrels of corn, buried on the beach and in other secret places, and destroyed."[390]

Major Taliaferro was not lax in enforcing the laws. Every boat passing Fort Snelling was searched,
and no liquor was allowed to enter the Indian country.[391] A few stray references seem to
indicate what was a usual occupation of the troops. "The Sub Agent Mr. Grooms left with 10
men on his 2d expedition below Lake Pepin in quest of whiskey Smuglers--as our Indians even
entering the country with it from Prairie du Chiens and the Traders of the Am Fur Cpy are geting
whiskey over the country by land and water".[392] During May, 1827, the agent called the attention
of Colonel Josiah Snelling to the fact that in Mr. Bailly's store at Mendota there was whiskey
which had been introduced into the Indian country contrary to law. Accordingly a detachment
of soldiers was sent under the command of Lieutenant J. B. F. Rupel, who succeeded in finding
two barrels which were taken away and stored in the fort.[393]

The year 1832 saw especial activity in the destruction of liquor. The boat of one trader passed
up the Mississippi during April, having on board eighteen barrels of whiskey.[394] Later in
the season the vigilance of the officers had direct results. In July eleven kegs of high wines,
very strong in quality, and in quantity amounting to one hundred and ten gallons, were taken
from the boat of Hazen Moores by Captain J. Vail. The value of this liquor was $330. In October
of the same year, five kegs of high wines and one keg of whiskey were found by Lieutenant I.
K. Greenough in the boat of Louis Provencalle. These confiscated kegs were stored in the fort,
and an interesting side-light on their ultimate fate is contained in the report of Major Taliaferro
"I am of opinion", he wrote, "from what I hear that the High Wines, and Whiskey Seized by Lieuts
Vail and Greenough, and in Store here will soon be of little account in Consequence of loss
by leakage, and the property Not in charge of any responsible person--Other than its mere deposite
in the public store." Whether any efforts were made to stop the leaks is not mentioned.[395]

These energetic movements caused "consternation among those natives who have not yet joined
the temperance Societties".[396] But they also caused violent opposition from the men whose
goods had been seized. These traders commenced a suit in the courts at Prairie du Chien against
the commanding officer at Fort Snelling, arguing that while the law prohibited the introduction
of liquor into the Indian country, this seizure had been made on the Mississippi River--"a
common highway open to all the Citizens of the United States".[397]

It is impossible to follow the course of the whiskey traffic through its ups and downs. Numerous
cases are recorded where the soldiers "knocked in the head" the whiskey barrels.[398] But it
was probably true, as the missionary S. R. Riggs wrote from Lac qui Parle on June 15, 1847,
to the Indian agent: "The whiskey destroyed by the efforts of yourself and the commanding officer
at Fort Snelling forms the glorious exception, and not the rule."[399]

Under the regulations existing in 1830 the traders were allowed to take with them into the
Indian country one gallon per month for every person engaged in the party. Under plea of this
they brought in high wines which were later diluted with water and distributed among the Indians.
Of the amount brought in, the employees actually saw only one-third, and this they paid for
at the rate of from eight to sixteen dollars per gallon.[400] Accordingly, Major Taliaferro
issued a circular letter in which he stated that high wines and whiskey would be allowed to
be brought in "in no case whatever".[401] Actions such as these by the agent, who was still
a young man, brought about the remark which Mr. Aitkin, a trader among the Chippewas, is reported
to have made to some chiefs: "The Medals and Flags which you received at St Peters are nothing
more than pewter and dish rags, and were given to you by a boy, and with a boys paw."[402]

Much of the good which should have resulted from the activities of the officers was lost because
the Indian could not be punished. If liquor was found in his possession and seized there was
nothing to prevent his going back and obtaining more, taking the chance of being more successful
in evading the authorities the second time.[403] Accordingly prevention as well as cure was
tried, and Captain Eastman, Mr. Sibley, and others sought, with some success, to persuade the
Indians to refuse to accept liquor.[404] Two years later the Indian agent, R. G. Murphy, organized
a temperance society among the Sioux, who, an observer stated, were careful in living up to
the pledge when once taken; and added, "One such man as Major Murphy does more real, practical
good than all the missionary societies of New York and Boston."[405]

X

SOLDIERS OF THE CROSS

Since the days of Father Marquette the Mississippi Valley has owed much to the missionaries.
Parkman has recounted their sufferings and their glorious achievements in discovery, in exploration,
and in inspiring others with their stories of the wonderful West. But when the black-robed
Jesuit departed, and mass was no longer said in the log chapels about the lakes and tributary
streams, the influence of Christianity still abided. There came a new generation of soldiers
of the cross who served the great valley in a later stage of development as unselfishly and
as thoroughly as their predecessors had done in the earlier days.

The Indian in the Northwest in 1830 was not unacquainted with or hostile to the whites; he
did not fall down in awe to worship one of a different color. His grandfather had traded with
the wandering traveller who often lived a whole winter in the village, and with his tribe had
visited the great commercial center at Mackinac. His father remembered the day when the second
class of strangers entered--the uniformed soldiers led by Pike--and now the sound of the big
gun in the fort at the mouth of the Minnesota was no longer a dread portent.

But the missionary was a novelty. His purpose was unknown. He did not ask for furs; he did
not stealthily give them whiskey; he did not come to summon them to councils at the agent's
house; and he did not ask for cessions of land. If they would respect the white man's "medicine
day"[406] and let their boys and girls attend the school, if they would listen patiently while
he talked to them of things they did not understand, this newcomer was content. Out in the
woods he cleared a patch of ground and grew corn. If the red men wanted to help he was very
glad. When the winter storms came, and game was scarce, and the small supply of corn that the
squaws had safely cached in the fall was eaten, then the missionary helped them in their difficulty.
He often went with them on their hunts, shared all their privations, and eased their pain if
accident or sickness befell them. As the activities of the mission broadened and its personnel
enlarged, the Indian became more and more acquainted with whites who lived on farms and tilled
the soil. So when at last the land was opened to settlement, the transition from the missionary's
establishment to that of the American farmer was not sudden.

Much has been written of the degeneration which came to the Indians about a fort through their
association with the soldiers. That such degeneration did result is true, but it came about
in spite of the efforts of the officers. On the other hand, distinct steps were taken to improve
the condition of the neighboring tribes; and although these efforts were soon transferred to
the missionaries, yet these missionaries depended so much on support and encouragement from
the soldiers that their enterprises may be considered as part of the history of Fort Snelling.
The freedom from annoyance enjoyed by the missionaries living near the fort as compared with
those at a distance indicates the influence of the post.[407]

Soon after Fort Snelling was established, Taliaferro attempted to persuade some Indians to
undertake farming in order to supplement their hunting. But they preferred leaving this work
to the rather desultory efforts of the squaws. One chief, however, remembered the advice during
the next winter. Far out on the plains that border on the Missouri River he and his party were
overtaken by a blizzard. Each one wrapped himself in his blanket and let the snow drift about
and over him. With a little dried buffalo meat which they divided among them, they kept alive
until the storm was over. While lying here, knowing not whether his companions were dead or
alive, expecting himself to be a victim of either the cold or hunger or both, Chief Cloud Man
resolved that if he ever returned to the vicinity of Fort Snelling he would not depend entirely
upon the hunt for his living, but would also engage in farming under the direction of the Indian
agent. This was no mere death-bed conversion. Many of his companions refused to follow him
in the movement; other chiefs openly opposed him; but in the spring eight Indians settled upon
the shores of Lake Calhoun to begin the life of agriculturists. This community was named Eatonville
in honor of Secretary of War John H. Eaton.[408]

On September 1, 1829, there arrived at the fort, the Reverend Alvan Coe and the Reverend Jedediah
I. Stevens, two missionaries on a religious exploring expedition to locate a site for an establishment.
They bore with them letters of introduction from Joseph M. Street, the agent at Prairie du
Chien, who commended them to Taliaferro's care with a convincing array of scriptural quotations.[409]
The agent offered them the use of the buildings connected with the grist mill and the saw mill
at the Falls and his own colony at Eatonville. After preaching a few times to the garrison,
the ministers left. It was not until 1835 that Mr. Stevens located permanently near the post.[410]

Major Taliaferro was left alone to carry on the difficult enterprise of civilizing the natives.
In 1830 he wrote to the Secretary of War telling of the progress he had made and of his plans
for a log village in which the Indians could live, instead of in the flimsy bark houses, and
a log house for the protection of the Indians' property. He begged for financial aid, saying
that "Six or eight hundred dollars would mature what has happily been begun, and this sum from
the Civilization fund would enable me to progress with great efficiency, and without further
tax on the Government."[411] The need for his supervision was constant. From his diary can
be seen how continual was his interest in the experiment. On April 18, 1831, he ordered the
hoes and plows repaired, and on May 1 he went to the colony taking the implements with him.
Here he found "most of them at work--Cuting down trees, Grubbing out the roots &c--What was
more encouraging some few of the Men were at this unusual kind of labour for them--they laughed
when they saw Me--I praised them, in every agreable way that could be conveyed to them in their
language." Again on June 8th he was pleased to see the Indians all at work hoeing their corn
and potatoes.[412]

The success of the colony was gratifying. In 1833 they raised from eight hundred to a thousand
bushels of corn, and the population of the village was one hundred and twenty-five. Only one
death had occurred in three years.[413] There was much to contend with, however, since the
traders were "violently opposed to Indians commencing to seek a living in this way."[414] One
trader stated that it was a loss to him of five hundred dollars whenever an Indian learned
to read and write.[415]

With all his duties it is no wonder that the agent was anxious to receive the help of the missionaries,
and although he was himself "a Deacon in the 'Old School Presbyterian Church'",[416] his basis
for aiding the red men, as he expressed it in a report, was that he had "endeavored to impress
all missionaries with the true fact that Christianity must be preceded by civilization among
the wild tribes. I hazard nothing in this, for an Indian must be taught all the temporal benefits
of this life first, before you ask him to seek for eternal happiness; teach him to worship
the true and living God through the self-evident developments of his mother earth. In fine,
let agriculture and the arts precede the preaching of the gospel, after which, Christianity
inculcate if practicable."[417]

The men who were to be Taliaferro's first helpers were living in the little village of Washington,
Connecticut--two brothers, one twenty-three years old and the other twenty-one. Here a great
revival occurred and among those whose lives were changed were Samuel Pond and Gideon Pond.
The next year the older of the two went to the West and drifted into the frontier town of Galena.
Hearing from a traveller from Red River of the Sioux about Fort Snelling he decided to dedicate
his life to uplifting them. Upon broaching the subject to his brother the latter agreed, and
on May 1, 1834, they left Galena on the "Warrior". No missionary society was supporting them;
they had only a little money; they did not know a word of the "Dakota" tongue; they were uneducated
for missionary work. Living the roving life of the Indians as members of the tribe, they hoped
to be able to gradually influence their lives and religion.[418]

On May 6, 1834, the "Warrior" reached Fort Snelling. At the agency
house, Mr. Grooms, who was the acting agent in the absence of Major
Taliaferro, rented them a room. Major Bliss, then in command at the
fort, immediately summoned them to appear before him and explain their
presence in the Indian country without permission.[419] When he heard of
 their plans, they fitted immediately into a problem that had been
puzzling him. Big Thunder, chief of the Kaposia village, wanted to raise
more corn. But by using the customary Indian method of hoeing up the
ground before planting, it was impossible to get much land under
cultivation. At Fort Snelling were oxen and a plow, but there was no one
to do the plowing or teach the art to the Indians. Accordingly Samuel
Pond volunteered to take charge of the proposition.

The plow was taken down the river in a canoe, while the oxen were driven by land. But the warriors
were reluctant about touching the plow until Big Thunder, chief of the band, had seized the
handles himself. For a week Samuel Pond continued the work. But the dogs had stolen the provisions
he had taken from the fort, and so he was obliged not only to sleep in the Indian tepee, but
also to live upon the ordinary Indian fare.[420]

This task of plowing had just been performed when Major Taliaferro returned from the East.
The success of the work done by Big Thunder led him to ask the Ponds to take charge of the
Eatonville colony. As this would give them an opportunity of carrying out their plans, the
brothers accepted. Their position is indicated by the following entry in Taliaferro's diary:
"I am to furnish out of my private funds--Hay for the Oxen--belonging to the Indians, & those
young men are to have Charge of them for the Winter--They will plough some this fall and again
in the Spring for the Indians, & go on thereafter to instruct them in the arts & habits of
civilized life."[421]

Cloud Man, chief of the Calhoun band of Indians, chose a site near the lake, where a cabin
was erected which cost a shilling--for nails. The walls were of tamarack logs from a neighboring
grove; slabs obtained at the mill at the Falls of St. Anthony furnished a roof; and Major Taliaferro
presented the missionaries with a window. Major Bliss gave them some potatoes, and Mrs. Bliss
presented them with a ham. Knowing the thievishness of the natives, the Indian agent also added
a padlock to the newly-finished cabin.[422]

Near the house about four acres of land were cleared and fenced with logs. A quarter of a mile
distant was the Indian village of fourteen bark lodges, each containing two or three families.
This village was surrounded by corn fields and was reached through a narrow lane made by putting
up posts and tying poles to them with strips of bark.[423] According to Featherstonhaugh, who
visited the establishment a year later, thirty acres were under cultivation and the yield of
corn amounted to eight hundred bushels. It is interesting to note that this critical traveller
found only one thing about Fort Snelling to commend and that was the self-sacrifice of the
two Pond brothers.[424]

They entered immediately into the life of the Indians. An extract from a letter written by
one of the brothers shows the wide variety of their duties. "One Indian," he said, "has been
here to borrow my axe, another to have me help him split a stick; another now interrupts me
to borrow my hatchet; another has been here after a trap which he left with me; another is
now before my window at work with his axe, while the women and children are screaming to drive
the black-birds from their corn. Again I am interrupted by one who tells me that the Indians
are going to play ball near our house to-day. Hundreds assemble on such occasions."[425]

The work that was thus started soon expanded. In the spring of 1835 Rev. Thomas Smith Williamson
arrived at Fort Snelling with his wife, a child, Miss Sarah Poage, and Alexander G. Huggins.
At about the same time Rev. Jedediah I. Stevens returned to the post he had visited in 1829,
and with the help of the Pond brothers built a mission school at Lake Harriet. Dr. Williamson
went up the Minnesota River to Lac qui Parle, where another station was established. On May
19, 1837, Rev. Alfred Brunson came to Fort Snelling for a similar purpose, and after consulting
with the agent and the commandant he chose the village of Kaposia for his headquarters. But
these mission stations and their personnel were not permanent. The work of the Ponds was soon
amalgamated with that of Mr. Stevens. In 1839 when the Sioux-Chippewa feuds were at their height
and the Indians were afraid to remain at Lake Calhoun, Mr. Stevens tore down the little cabin
the Ponds had built and used the material for breastworks and moved down the river to Wabasha's
village--outside the influence of Fort Snelling. At the same time the Ponds moved nearer the
fort, where they remained until in 1842 they established a mission at Oak Grove, eight miles
up the Minnesota River. This same war spirit and the hostility to the missionaries who preached
against it led to the abandonment of the Kaposia enterprise in 1841. In 1846, however, Little
Crow asked for a school, and Dr. Williamson came from Lac qui Parle to take charge of it. These
missions remained in existence throughout the period of Old Fort Snelling.[426]

The activities of the missions took on two forms--industrial and educational. By the treaty
of 1837 a farmer was provided for the Sioux about the fort. This position was offered to Gideon
Pond who in 1838 accepted. In return for his salary of six hundred dollars he had to plow the
cornfields, cut hay for the cattle and feed them during the winter, and build such shelters
as the animals might need. As he could not do all this work alone--and he wanted it thoroughly
done--much of his salary was spent in hiring others to help him. His services were offered
in the same spirit of sacrifice which first brought him to the region.[427]

Blacksmiths were maintained at some of the villages. In 1849 Mr. Chatel, blacksmith for Good
Road's village, made among other things, 73 chains to hang kettles on for cooking, 23 traps,
230 axes, 50 rat spears, 208 pairs of fish spears, 24 pairs of stirrups, 63 crooked knives,
and 199 hoes. During the same year, Mr. Robertson, the farmer for Little Crow's village, ploughed
75 acres of land, made 500 yards of fence, put up 20 tons of hay, and hauled corn for seventeen
days. To be sure, Robertson and Chatel were not missionaries, but they were part of the movement
for civilizing the Indians which was fostered and encouraged by the officers of the fort.[428]

In 1837 at Lake Harriet there was an Indian boarding-school, where some half dozen half-breed
girls were learning to read, write, and sew.[429] The Pond brothers had made the beginnings
of an alphabet of the Sioux language, and books and primers for the use of the scholars were
soon printed.[430] At all the stations surrounding Fort Snelling schools were maintained, but
here as elsewhere "the children in pleasant weather prefer playing to reading".[431] Some progress
was made, however, as is indicated by the school reports. In 1851 at the school maintained
at Kaposia it is reported that Daniel Renville, Gustavus A. Robertson, Rosalie Renville, and
Fat Duty Win can spell and read in English in McGuffy's Eclectic Primer, and can spell and
read in the Sioux language in Wowape Metawa.[432]

The success of these pioneer efforts depended much on the encouragement received at the beginning;
and by a coincidence this encouragement was brought about the second summer that the Ponds
were in the vicinity. During the winter Major Gustavus Loomis initiated "a red-hot revival
among the soldiers", and although many of the converts backslid with the simultaneous appearance
of spring and whiskey,[433] yet there were so many that remained faithful that on June 11,
1835, when Dr. Williamson arrived, a church was organized in one of the company rooms at Fort
Snelling. This church was composed of soldiers, missionaries, and fur traders and was a basis
of support in the difficult task of civilizing the Indians.[434] The officers protected and
encouraged the workers under all circumstances, the post doctor gave his services to them free,
and once a month Mr. Stevens preached at the fort.[435]

In 1838 the church was strengthened by the appointment of a chaplain, Rev. Ezekiel Gear of
Galena. But on December 11, 1838, as he was leaving Fort Crawford in a sleigh, the horse started
up sooner than was expected and he was thrown out, breaking his right thigh bone. He was kept
at the hospital at Fort Crawford for some months and did not arrive at Fort Snelling until
April 28, 1839.[436] As there was no room large enough to hold all the soldiers, they were
at first not compelled to attend the services. In 1841, however, the chaplain reported that
all the soldiers attended regularly, but answered feebly to the responses, although the chaplain
believed they were attentive to what was said. These movements, which were undertaken to elevate
the character of the soldiers, could not but have an effect upon the success of the missionaries.[437]

Under the protection of Fort Snelling efforts were also made to do religious work among the
fur traders. The inhabitants of Mendota were old voyageurs and traders, French and half-breeds,
and most of them, having lived long without the ministrations of the church, remembered the
faith of their childhood days in Canada. When in 1838 the Minnesota country west of the Mississippi
was made a part of the Territory of Iowa, the Diocese of Dubuque was extended to correspond
with the political area. In the following summer Bishop Loras of Dubuque visited the upper
Mississippi and was entertained at the fort and by the faithful Catholics at Mendota. These
amounted in number to one hundred and eighty-five, fifty-six of whom were baptized, eight were
confirmed, and four couples were given the nuptial benediction. The need for permanent work
was great. Plans were made to bring one or two Sioux to Dubuque to pass the winter and teach
the language to some worker. In the spring of 1840 Rev. Lucian Galtier was sent up to be the
pastor of this flock.[438]

It was often with despair that the missionaries saw the Indians still clinging to their heathen
rites, and the few additions to the churches do not indicate any great transformation of an
Indian nation. But if the lives of the natives were not elevated by their contact with the
whites it was not because they had no opportunity. The forces which led to their degeneration
had the start of the civilizing forces, and they also appealed more to the Indian's nature.
At the same time both romance and lustre is added to the relations of Old Fort Snelling with
the surrounding Indians by the story of the attempts of the men who had a vision of what Indian
life could be, and who unselfishly tried to make that vision a reality, encouraged and supported
by the military men at the fort.

XI

THE FASHIONABLE TOUR

George Catlin, whose wanderings in the West had acquainted him with the most beautiful and
the most accessible scenic spots of the country, urged upon his readers the adoption of a trip
to the Falls of St. Anthony as the "Fashionable Tour".[439] Primitive life and unspoiled landscapes
could be seen from the comfortable decks of the steamboat. The objective point of these trips
was the Falls of St. Anthony, but it was at Fort Snelling that the passengers were dropped.
Only because of the necessity of bringing supplies to the troops at the post did the steamboats
make the journey. It is in the writings of these visitors that there have been preserved many
pictures of life in and about Fort Snelling. Moreover, these visits from the outside world
brought pleasure and satisfaction to the smaller world about the fort.

In the month of May, 1823, occurred an event which was epochal, not only in regard to the commercial
development of the Northwest, but also in respect to the growth of the upper Mississippi as
a Mecca for travellers. The steamboat "Virginia", one hundred and twenty feet long with a twenty
foot beam, commanded by Captain Crawford, left St. Louis with supplies for Fort Snelling; on
the tenth of May it was received by the soldiers at the fort with a salute of cannon and by
the assembled Indians with awe and consternation.[440] "I know not what impression the first
sight of the Phoenician vessels might make on the inhabitants of the coasts of Greece," wrote
one who was a passenger on that eventful voyage, "or the Triremi of the Romans on the natives
of Iberia, Gaul, or Britain; but I am sure it could not be stronger than that which I saw on
the countenances of these savages at the arrival of our steam-boat."[441]

The man who wrote these words was J. C. Beltrami, an Italian refugee, who for political reasons
had fled from his native land. In 1823 he met Major Taliaferro at Pittsburgh and requested
permission to accompany him to the Falls of St. Anthony. This was granted, and in company with
the Indian agent he arrived at Fort Snelling on the first steamboat to brave the current of
the upper Mississippi.[442] Here for almost two months he was entertained by the officials
at the post, visiting the Indian bands, attending their councils, writing letters to "My Dear
Countess",[443] and conversing with Mrs. Snelling who alone could speak French with him.[444]
He was on the point of setting out overland for Council Bluffs when another party arrived at
the post.

In the list of the exploring expeditions which traversed the region about the head of Lake
Superior, by far the most important was the one led by Stephen H. Long and conducted under
the auspices of the War Department. The permanent members of the party were Major Long of the
Topographical Engineers, Thomas Say, zoölogist and antiquary, William H. Keating, mineralogist
and geologist, Samuel Seymour, landscape painter and designer, and James E. Colhoun, astronomer
and assistant topographer. The start was made at Philadelphia on April 30, 1823, and the route
led by way of Wheeling and Chicago to Fort Crawford at Prairie du Chien. From this point Major
Long and Mr. Colhoun travelled by land and the others by water, the two parties arriving at
the fort on July 2nd and July 3rd respectively. After a few days wait the journey was again
resumed late on the afternoon of July 9th.[445]

In the meantime much had been done. The orders issued to Major Long had authorized him to call
upon the commanding officer at any post for men, horses, camp equipage, provisions, boats,
clothing, medicines, and goods to the value of three hundred dollars to be distributed among
the Indians.[446] Biscuits were baked in the ovens of the fort; Joseph Renville was engaged
as an interpreter; and the detachment of troops which had accompanied them from Prairie du
Chien was exchanged for a new guard, consisting of a sergeant, two corporals, and eighteen
soldiers under the command of Lieutenant St. Clair Denny.[447]

But these preparations did not prevent them from enjoying the scenic views about Fort Snelling.
On the sixth of July a walk was taken to the Falls of St. Anthony. An island in the river which
divided the falls into two parts tempted Mr. Say, Mr. Colhoun,  and Mr. Keating to cross, the
water being only two feet deep. But the ford was located only a few feet above the ledge of
the rock, and the slippery footing rendered the exploit extremely dangerous. When this had
been safely accomplished, Mr. Say and Mr. Colhoun crossed in the same way the eastern half
of the falls, while Mr. Keating with great difficulty returned to the western bank. Later when
the others were crossing the dangerous passage, they were seen to be in great difficulties
whereupon one of the soldiers went out and aided them to the shore. Only after they had been
strengthened by a dinner, prepared by the old sergeant who was in charge of the government
mills, were they able to return to the fort.[448]

The expedition went up the Minnesota River to its source, then down the Red River to Lake Winnipeg
and returned to the East by way of the fur trader's route along the international boundary
and Lake Superior. Fear of the Indians living about the mouth of the Blue Earth River, one
of whose number had been arrested and sent to St. Louis for murder, had suggested the necessity
of the military escort. But when the place was reached no trouble resulted, as the Indians
had gone on their summer hunt. Accordingly nine of the soldiers were sent back with canoes--some
of the supplies having been destroyed by accidents. Those who remained had no easy task. There
were only nine horses, and these were reserved for the officers and "gentlemen" of the company,
so that the privates were obliged to walk.[449]

On August 9th when the party left Pembina behind, their number had dwindled. Joseph Snelling,
son of Colonel Snelling, who had gone with them thus far, returned by the same route with three
soldiers. J. C. Beltrami, who had been allowed to cast his lot with theirs, and who had been
equipped and supplied by the Indian agent, who had presented him with the "noble steed 'Cadmus'",[450]
also left them. In company with two Chippewas and a bois-brulé of Red River, he set out for
the southeast with the purpose of there finding the source of the Mississippi. Upon a small
lake, which he named Lake Julia, he conferred the honor of being the head of the great river,
while it seemed to him that the "shades of Marco Polo, of Columbus, of Americus Vespucius,
of the Cabots, of Verazani, of the Zenos, and various others, appeared present, and joyfully
assisting at this high and solemn ceremony".[451] After a journey of great suffering he was
welcomed at Fort Snelling--wearing a hat made of the bark of a tree, and clothes of skins.[452]

Not until late in the fall did the connection of Fort Snelling with this expedition cease,
when the soldiers who had accompanied the party as far as Sault Ste. Marie returned to their
post by the Fox-Wisconsin route after a journey rendered exceedingly disagreeable by the cold.[453]

In the summer of 1835 George Catlin and his wife spent several months at Fort Snelling. Mr.
Catlin was an artist who made a specialty of Indian scenes, and his time was occupied in painting
scenes of Indian life and portraits of Indian chiefs. His studio was a room in the officers'
quarters, and his models were the natives who lingered about the agency.

Mr. Catlin was extremely desirous of painting some pictures of Indian dances and ball-plays.
In order to persuade the Indians to do their part, Lawrence Taliaferro told them on July 3rd
that if they would come the next day and entertain the visitors, the great gun at the fort
would be fired twenty-one times for their amusement. As this was the salute for the national
holiday, he was safe in making the prophecy. Accordingly, on the fourth of July the prairie
near the fort, for two hours, rang with the excited shouts of the ball-players; and when this
pastime was finished the "beggar's-dance", the "buffalo-dance", the "bear-dance", the "eagle-dance",
and the "dance-of-the-braves" furnished entertainment for three hours more.[454]

On the sixteenth of July General Robert Patterson of Philadelphia with his sister and daughter
arrived on the steamboat "Warrior". For their amusement the Indians staged the "dog-dance",
using for their victims two dogs which were presented to them by the officers of the garrison.
Accompanied by a soldier George Catlin left for Prairie du Chien on July 27th. "About this
lovely spot", he wrote, "I have whiled away a few months with great pleasure, and having visited
all the curiosities, and all the different villages of Indians in the vicinity, I close my
notebook and start in a few days for Prairie du Chien, which is three hundred miles below this;
where I shall have new subjects for my brush and new themes for my pen, when I may continue
my epistles."[455]

In the thirties began that series of geological surveys which has continued ever since, under
both the national and State governments. In the fall of 1835 George William Featherstonhaugh
and William Williams Mather, geologists in the service of the government, made a survey of
the Minnesota Valley. The detailed scientific report of the survey was published by the government;[456]
while a popular description of the trip, written by Mr. Featherstonhaugh, appeared in London
in 1847 entitled, "A Canoe Voyage up the Minnay Sotor".

From September 12th to September 15th on the up-journey and from October 16th to October 22nd
on the return, the scientist was entertained at the fort. The reception which he received did
not impress him with its cordiality. "I could not but reflect upon the contrast betwixt the
very kind attentions I had received at the other American posts, and the want of them I experienced
here."[457] But the feeling was mutual. The keen Indian agent characterized him by saying:
"He attempted to pass current for that which he possessed not--superior talent and modesty
in his profession."[458] Mr. Featherstonhaugh was an Englishman in whose narrative American
institutions were not praised. Even the presence of his American co-laborer, Mr. Mather, is
not suspected by reading the entertaining story, for his name is not mentioned once.

It is difficult, therefore, to judge how accurate the account of his stay at Fort Snelling
really is. The room which was given to him for his use was "an old dirty, ill-smelling, comfortless
store-room", and Major L---- (Loomis?) who was asked by the commandant to provide accommodations
for the visitor bored him with his psalm-singing and exhortations, being "a living rod in soak
to tickle up sluggish Christians". But, probably unwittingly, Featherstonhaugh admitted that
Fort Snelling was of some service to him. For the supplies and vegetables taken from the post
gardens brought the gunwale of the canoe to within four inches of the water![459]

Further exploration of the upper Mississippi was made by Joseph N. Nicollet during the summer
of the next year. This French scientist was aided in part by the War Department, and in part
by the fur traders, P. Chouteau, Jr., & Co., of St. Louis.[460] While at Fort Snelling he determined
to visit the sources of the great river, and in his enterprises he was greatly assisted by
Lawrence Taliaferro, H. H. Sibley, and the officers at the fort. Some of the soldiers wished
to accompany him, but the absence of many of the garrison at Prairie du Chien made their presence
at the post necessary. Some Chippewa Indians, some half-breeds, and a Frenchman, Desiré Fronchet,
were his only companions when the ascent of the river was commenced. But at the first stopping
place, near the Falls of St. Anthony, a band of thieving Sioux robbed him of many of his supplies,
and the attempt would have been given up had not Major Taliaferro made good the loss from his
own means.[461] Nicollet visited Lake Itasca and indicated its principal tributary, so that
some authors have credited him with being the discoverer of the true source of the Mississippi.[462]

After the return from this perilous journey, the winter was spent at Fort Snelling in working
over the notes and a map. For the kindness shown him Mr. Nicollet expressed great appreciation,
though the rude hospitality of the frontier post could provide no supper better than wild rice,
mush, and milk, and no sleeping quarters better than the storehouse. But here he was entertained,
as the agent wrote, in Virginia fashion where a call lasts six months and a visit one year;
and the nights were made merry with the music of the violin and piano, and with the animated
conversation of Taliaferro and Nicollet. For many hours on cold winter nights he studied through
his telescope the stars in the clear heavens.[463]

Mr. Nicollet devoted two more seasons to examining the country between the Mississippi and
Missouri rivers in company with John C. Frémont. In 1838 a trip was made from Fort Snelling
to the pipestone quarry; and in 1839 his party ascended the Missouri River to Fort Pierre,
and then passed over the prairies to the Mississippi.[464] The accounts of these journeys were
widely read, and coming from the pen of such an able scientist and pleasing writer, the interest
of the country was turned to the rich possibilities of this new Northwest.[465]

In addition to these well-known travellers there was a host of people who made the trip as
a vacation jaunt. On June 1, 1836, the "Palmyra" arrived with thirty passengers. The steamboat
"Burlington" tied up at Fort Snelling on June 13, 1838, having among its many passengers Captain
Frederick Marryat, the popular English novelist. Only two days later the "Brazil" was moored
near the "Burlington", the presence of two boats at the same time being considered a novel
sight. The family of Governor Henry Dodge was on this second boat.[466]

On June 26, 1838, the "Burlington" was again at Fort Snelling. Among the tourists on this trip
was Mrs. Alexander Hamilton who had embarked at Galena where she had been visiting her son,
W. S. Hamilton, who was connected with lead mining enterprises in Wisconsin. The fact that
Mrs. Hamilton had been a belle in society during the time of George Washington, and the general
sympathy felt for her ever since the tragic death of her husband in 1804, caused her to be
received with more attention than was usually bestowed on tourists. At nine o'clock she was
taken in a carriage to the Falls of St. Anthony, and when she returned to the fort in the afternoon
the officers met her at the gate and led her to a chair placed upon a carpet in the center
of the parade ground. After the troops had been reviewed she was entertained at the headquarters
of the fort until the "Burlington" left that same evening.[467]

The extent of this tourist traffic is well illustrated in the newspapers of the time. Advertisements
tell of the interesting features to be seen on a trip to the upper Mississippi, of the pleasures
of steamboat travel, and promise that "A first rate band of music will be on board."[468] An
editor paused long enough in the exciting presidential "Log Cabin" campaign of 1840 to remark
that "Pleasure trips to these Falls appear to be quite the go. Large parties of ladies and
gentlemen have passed up on the steamboats Loyal Hanna and Malta. And we noticed in a late
St. Louis paper, the advertisements of the Valley Forge, Ione, Brazil and Monsoon, all for
'pleasure excursions to St. Peters'. We see also in the same paper, that the steamboat Fayette
is advertised 'for Harrison and Reform'--rather an extensive country we should think, at the
present time."[469] Even as far away as Louisville, Kentucky, steamboats were chartered for
trips to the upper waters of the Mississippi River.[470]

The pleasures of such a journey, the scenery enjoyed, the people met, the events of the day
spent at Fort Snelling are well illustrated by two letters written by the Right Reverend Jackson
Kemper, who was the missionary bishop of the Northwest of the Episcopal Church.[471] In the
month of August, 1843, he was the guest of Captain Throckmorton on the steamboat "General Brooke";
and he made the trip to Fort Snelling to confer with Rev. Ezekiel Gear who was the chaplain
at the post. The first letter was dated August 25, 1843, and was written to his daughter.

"Here we are snug and almost dry on a sand bar and not more than 13 miles below St. Peters",
he wrote. "While the Captain and his men are using all kinds of methods to get us off--the
chief of which is to put our freight into a large barge aside of us--I will write you a few
lines. It is now past 8 o'c. P. M. We still hope to get to the fort before night (mid-night
I mean). Then the Captain says he will give us an early breakfast tomorrow and send us off
to see the falls (5 Miles distant) and we must return so as to start down the river by noon.
This is too bad in many respects; but what can we do? I have not time to stay with Mr. Gear
until the next boat arrives; that may not be for a week or two; so I will say to Mr. G. when
I see him: Here I am, & I have come not to see the falls but you, and I am at your disposal
as long as I am here. If you choose to take me to the falls, it is well; if you prefer that
I should remain in your house I am content. It is still probable that I shall be at Potosi
next tuesday Morning. To travel on Sunday, and particularly to do so without an opportunity
of preaching, will be very hard. There will probably be only 4 passengers besides myself on
the return. There was a little boat the other [day?] a-head of us, and I hoped she might be
detained at the fort until Monday--but that prospect has vanished, for she has just past us
descending to Galena.

"It is supposed to be 500 miles from St. Louis to Prairie du Chien and 300 from there to St.
Peters. We stopt at Prairie du Chien for some hours and a Judge Lockwood came on board who
with his wife is an Episcopalian. He told me there are several in and about the town & he thought
the prospect of organizing a church a fair one if a Missionary could be obtained (We are off
the sand bar). From the prairie our voyage has been delightful. At the distance of a mile or
two from the river on each side are ranges of lofty hills, in a great variety of shapes. Many
of them appeared as if the river had flowed for ages near to their tops. Some of them looked
as if they had been cut in two; and on the peaks of several were large blocks of rock. As we
were woodding I spoke of going up to one of them but was told it was dangerous on account of
rattle-snakes. There is a curious fact connected with that reptile. Cannon river flows into
the Mis^i from the west--it is a long & narrow stream--nine miles above Lake Pepin. They are
never found north of that stream, although they abound below it. One of the hills we saw yesterday
had 3 or 4 large blocks of rock upon it, called the pot and kettles from their resemblance
to those useful utensils. The prairies were frequent & some peculiarly attractive. On Wabasa's
we saw a Sioux village--and a farmer's establishment--he being sent there by the U. S. to civilize
the Indians. This morning we passed another village called Red Wings but saw very few of the
inhabitants. The corn field was very ... [illegible] and there were in it elevated frames where
the boys are kept to scare away the blackbirds. I saw smoke near the frames, the boys having
kindled a fire to roast ears of corn for their comfort. The Sioux have winter & summer houses.
The latter are conical made of buffalo robes covering poles. The summer lodges looked something
like poor log huts & are made of poles & elm bark. Near Red Wings village there is a Miss^y
establishment from Switzerland.--Lake Pepin is a beautiful sheet of water thro wh the M. flows
or is an expanse of the M. & is 25 miles by 3. It apparently abounded in large fish, for they
were constantly jumping out of the water. Its banks you know are celebrated for agates--but
we have not time to stop a moment.--The settlements above P. du Chien are very few--now and
then a solitary dwelling & a wood yard. At one of these places the man told me his nearest
neighbor was 20 miles off. In winter there is a good deal of travelling on the river in sleighs.
About half way up Lake Pepin is the lover's rock of which you have heard, the Chippeway river
enters from the East just below the commencement of the Lake, & its Mouth is 100 Miles below
St. Peters. Up it & like wise up the St. Croix are saw mills, as that country abounds with
Pine. The Mouth of the St. Croix is 30 miles below St. Peters. Here is a beautiful lake as
large as L. Pepin thro' which the St. C. flows just before it joins the M.--We have a Mr. Akin
on board whose trading establishment is 300 Miles north of the St. Peters & 60 west of Lake
Superior. Then he has been among the Chippeways 33 yrs. He has been thro' Lake Superior 30
times to New York for goods & returned as often; and now for the first time he has traded with
St. Louis. He knows perfectly all the languages around him. The most copious is the Chippeway.
He says they have some what of a written language, and he has frequently seen an Indian write
off a ... [illegible] for another on a piece of bark. He thinks the characters are something
like those of the Mexicans.--Now I suppose you would like to receive a letter with the S. Peter's
post Mark; and if I ascertain it will not take more than a Month on its journey you shall receive
this thro that channel; otherwise I will reserve it for the p. o. of P. du Chien".[472]

The narrative is continued in a letter of August 29, 1843, written from Potosi, Wisconsin,
to his son:

"Although you may not have a very high opinion of the West, yet I think you would have liked
to be with me in my late trip to St. Peters. The weather was delightful and the scenery grand
and very novel. You have probably seen my letter to your sister; I will therefore say, we arrived
at the end of our voyage last friday night, and as the fog was very thick the next morning
we could not see where we were until 8 oclock. Then the fort on a high hill, with its flag
flying, had a fine appearance. Mr. Gear the chaplain soon called at the boat and appeared greatly
rejoiced to see me. I accompanied him to his quarters and saw his family and some of the officers
and ladies of the garrison, and then he and I rode out 8 miles to the falls of St. Anthony.
Though very inferior to those of Niagara, they are still well worth seeing. The scenery is
wild--there are many immense rocks in the river, evidently broken off from the precipice over
which the water is dashed with considerable noise--the water in its fall is frequently broken--but
even when it is not so, the height is not more than 17-1/2 feet. Returning we went to a hill
from whence we could see the whole of the fall for there is an island in the middle of the
river which hides one half of it when you are near. A mile or two further brought us to a most
beautiful and lofty cascade on Nine Mile river. The quantity of water was not large, but it
fell amidst the wildest scene, unbroken, over a ledge of rock which extended far beyond its
foundation.--There were not many Indians. The few I saw were Sioux who looked much degenerated
by their contact with the Whites. The families of the officers appeared very happy; the ladies
told me they were like sisters. For months they have no visitors but wild Indians--Sioux or
Chippeways. An old Scotchman who had been in this country 50 years told me that all the tribes
to the North and West speak the Chippeway language or its dialects; that the Sioux is entirely
different from it, but that a dialect of it is spoken by the Winnebagoes, with this difference
that the Sioux language has not the sound of the letter R in it while almost every word of
the Winnebago abounds with Rs. He thinks that a person knowing the two languages--the C. and
S. could travel through the indian country from Mexico to the N. Pole and make himself understood.--We
had to return to the boat by one oclock, and soon after we started down the river. Near the
Mouth of the St. Croix--about 45 miles below St. Peters, I saw on a prairie a large stone painted
a bright red, to which the Indians offer sacrifices of tobacco &c. and consider a Wa-Kon or
Spirit.--As we were on our journey sunday afternoon I saw a bark canoe paddling towards us
with great rapidity containing as I first thought an Indian and a white Man. The steamer was
stopt, and soon the chattels (kettle, coffee-pot, &c) then the men afterwards the boat itself
were on board. They proved to be a miner who had gone from Galena and a stout lad. Eight months
ago a number of persons were induced by offers of land from Government to go to Lake Superior
in search of copper; and a large party had lately been occupied in removing an immense block
of copper from the bed of a river which empties into the Lake. This miner had been thus occupied;
and he informed me that the task was done--that the block weighed three tons--that it was to
be taken to New York &c as an object of curiosity. A fortnight ago he had started from the
spot--skirted the Lake to a certain river, ascended that to its source, then carried the canoe
with its contents 2 or 3 miles on their shoulders until they met the head waters of the St.
Croix, and descended that river to the Mississippi."[473]

XII

THE CHIPPEWA TREATY OF 1837

The relations of the United States government to the Indians prior to 1871 shows a dual attitude.
On the one hand, the Indians were the government's wards. By the ninth of the Articles of Confederation,
Congress was given the right of "regulating the trade and managing all affairs with the Indians
who were not members of any of the states";[474] and by the act regulating Indian trade no
cession of land could be valid unless made by treaty or convention.[475] On the other hand,
these treaties were negotiated and proclaimed with all the pomp and ceremony which would appeal
to the Indian's mind and impress him with his importance as a member of a sovereign nation.
This was distinctly a "legal fiction", but it continued as the customary method of procedure
until the act of March 3, 1871, abolished the practice of considering the tribes as independent
nations.[476]

As the nation increased in strength and the agricultural and commercial
forces of the country were pushing westward and coming into contact with
the distant tribes, the treaties increased in number and importance.
Urged by the cries of hungry land-seekers the cession of land by the
natives gradually became the most important phase of all treaties; and
 in order that the new settlements might be protected from
vengeful Indians the title to the land rested on legal cession rather
than on conquest. It is stated on the authority of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs that "Except only in the case of the Sioux Indians in
Minnesota, after the outbreak of 1862, the Government has never
extinguished an Indian title as by right of conquest; and in this case
the Indians were provided with another reservation, and subsequently
were paid the net proceeds arising from the sale of the land
vacated."[477]

The negotiation of a treaty was not an easy affair. There were no recognized representatives
of the tribe. In order that a treaty might be satisfactory it was necessary that all factions
be consulted; and the braves who gathered often numbered into the hundreds. Thus, in planning
the negotiations a satisfactory place and an opportune time must be selected, while the red
men must be supported while away from home and protected from lurking enemies. It was in these
phases of treaty-making that the military posts showed their importance.

The first important treaty with which the tribes living about Fort Snelling were concerned
was that made at Prairie du Chien in 1825. The little frontier village presented a gala appearance
during the month of August when the great convocation was held. There were Chippewas, Sioux,
Sacs and Foxes, Menomonies, Iowas, Winnebagoes, and a portion of the Ottawa, Chippewa, and
Pottawattomie tribes living on the Illinois River gathered to consult with Governor Lewis Cass
of Michigan and General William Clark, the government's commissioners. Of the 1054 drawing
rations on the last day, 386 were of the delegation of Sioux and Chippewas gathered by Major
Taliaferro at Fort Snelling and brought down in safety to make a triumphal entry in true Indian
style with flags flying, drums beating, and guns firing.[478]

Although there was no cession of land, distinct progress was made in that the territories of
the various tribes were defined, thus making negotiations easier for the future. Of especial
importance was the Sioux-Chippewa boundary line, which made clear the territory of each tribe,
so that when the year 1837 arrived and treaties were made to obtain the lands east of the Mississippi,
the areas with which each was concerned were clearly understood.[479]

By the year 1837 many conditions called for the cession of these lands. The forests, the water-power,
the mines of lead and other ores aroused the desires of speculators. Settlers were thronging
to Wisconsin, and it was felt that if the land could be purchased and the Indians removed,
the people would be safe from any attacks, and the Indians would be removed from the contaminating
influence of many of the undesirable whites.[480] There were also the traders who for years
past had given credit to many worthless Indians who had never brought back from the hunt furs
sufficient to pay for the goods advanced them; and they hoped that in the payment for the lands
certain sums would be reserved for the liquidation of these debts.[481]

In the early summer of 1837 Major Taliaferro was ordered to organize a delegation of Sioux
Indians who could be taken to Washington, where the Sioux negotiations would take place. At
the same time orders were issued to summon the Chippewas of the upper Mississippi to a council
to be held at Fort Snelling. To both of these groups the subject of the purchase of the Indian
lands east of the Mississippi would be broached.[482]

Miles Vineyard, who was the sub-agent at Fort Snelling, was immediately sent to the villages
of the Chippewas. Early in July the red men began to arrive, and by July 20th about a thousand
men, women, and children had pitched their tepees near the fort. Many were the notable chiefs
gathered there with their warriors. With the Pillager band from Leech Lake was Chief Flat Mouth,
who had twenty-five times been on the warpath without receiving a wound, who had delivered
his English medal to Pike in 1806, and whose band had been attacked by the Sioux under the
walls of Fort Snelling in 1827. The most famous of the Chippewa chiefs, he was still living
in 1852, being then seventy-eight years old.[483]

The chief of the bands from Gull Lake and Swan River was Hole-in-the-Day. Energetic, brave,
and intelligent, he gained a great influence over the Chippewas of the upper Mississippi. His
name, which literally meant a bright spot in the sky, is often written Hole-in-the-Sky. He
was a frequent visitor at Fort Snelling and came to his death at that place in 1847 when he
fell from a wagon, breaking his neck and dying instantly.[484] His brother Strong Ground or
Strong Earth was also present at the council. He had been a member of Flat Mouth's band at
the time of the massacre in 1827. Thirty-six eagle plumes waved from his head-dress at the
time of his death, each of them representing the scalp of an enemy. The first of these he obtained
when as a small boy he dashed into the ranks of the Sioux during a conflict and scalped a fallen
warrior.[485] Chiefs and warriors from the St. Croix River, Mille Lac, and Sandy Lake, with
their followers, were also encamped near the fort.

There were also notables among the white men gathered there. The United States commissioner
was Henry Dodge, known as an Indian fighter, and at that time Governor of Wisconsin Territory.
General William R. Smith of Pennsylvania, who had been appointed by the President to serve
as a commissioner with Governor Dodge, was unable to come. Lawrence Taliaferro, the Indian
agent, was busied with many duties connected with the safety of the visitors. Four hundred
Sioux hovered about, and these had to be kept at a safe distance to avoid conflicts. Verplanck
Van Antwerp, the secretary of the commission; J. N. Nicollet, the explorer; H. H. Sibley; and
many other fur traders watched the negotiations and put their names to the treaty as witnesses.[486]

The council began on July 20th. It was with the chiefs that Governor Dodge parleyed, but the
warriors and braves felt that they also should have some part in the proceedings. On one occasion
several hundred of them, streaked with their brightest paint, waving their tomahawks and spears
and carrying the war flag of the Chippewas, together with the flag of the United States, interrupted
the council with their whoops and drums; and when they had approached the chair of the Governor,
paused while two of the warriors harangued the crowd on the kindness of the traders and the
debts owed them.[487]

The negotiations were carried on in a bower near the house of the agent. The chiefs were assembled
daily; the peace pipe was smoked; and the red men, dressed only in leggings and breech cloths,
with their long hair hanging over their shoulders under the eagle feathers upon their heads,
and medals dangling from their necks, spoke of lands, of the traders, and of wars. The speeches
of the Indians seemed interminable. From day to day action was postponed as they were waiting
for other bands to arrive.

To prolong the council as long as possible was satisfying to the appetite of the Indian. The
rations issued by the commissary at Fort Snelling were not to be eagerly exchanged for the
fare of a Chippewa lodge in the northern woods. But at first the menu was not satisfactory.
Nadin (the Wind) complained on July 24th: "You have everything around you, and can give us
some of the cattle that are around us on the prairie. At the treaty of Prairie du Chien,  the
case was as difficult as this. The great Chief then fed us well with cattle."[488] Evidently
this hint was acted upon, as the old records show that by July 30th ten beeves weighing 6123
pounds had been furnished the Chippewas who were assembled to the number of 1400.[489] The
amount of supplies used on such an occasion is indicated by instructions given to Alexander
Ramsey and John Chambers who in 1849 were commissioned to treat with the Sioux Indians at Fort
Snelling. They were authorized to obtain from the commissary at Fort Snelling 15,000 rations
of flour, 10,000 of pork, 10,000 of salt, 10,000 of beans, and 5000 of soap.[490]

At the first meeting Governor Dodge spoke to the Chippewas of the purpose of the council. Their
lands east of the Mississippi, he informed them, were not valuable in game and were not suited
for agricultural purposes. They were said to be covered with pine trees, which the white men
were eager to obtain, and accordingly the government was willing to pay the Chippewa nation
for them. Thus, by selling the land they could obtain money for that which actually was of
little value to them.[491]

There evidently was no intention on the part of the Indians not to sell the lands, but the
council was protracted, pending the arrival of other bands. Not until July 27th did they make
any movement to close the deal. On that day, Ma-ghe-ga-bo, a warrior of the Pillager band,
dressed in his most fantastic costume, covered a map of the land in question with a piece of
paper, remarking that when the paper was removed the land would be considered sold. He added
a final request: "My father, in all the country we sell you, we wish to hold on to that which
gives us life--the streams and lakes where we fish, and the trees from which we make sugar."

Finally he asked all the chiefs who agreed to sell the land to rise. About thirty arose at
his word. Immediately Ma-ghe-ga-bo raised the paper from the map and seized the hand of Governor
Dodge. The sale was made. There remained only to agree upon the terms of the cession.[492]

During the negotiations, reference had been made continually by the Indians to the traders
and the payment of the debts owed them. Pe-she-ke said: "I have been supported by the trader,
and without his aid, could not get through the winter with naked skin. The grounds where your
children have to hunt are as bare as that on which I now stand, and have no game upon them....
We have not much to give the traders, as our lands and hunting grounds are so destitute. Do
us a kindness by paying our old debts." That he was coached to make the remark is evident from
his statement that "No-body--no trader has instructed me what to say to you."[493]

On July 29th the terms were finally agreed upon, and while the secretary was writing out the
treaty the braves of the Chippewas held a dance under the walls of Fort Snelling. This indicated
not only their satisfaction at the successful conclusion of the council, but was also intended
as a compliment to the commissioner. Three hundred warriors circled about in their gaudy costumes,
recounting during the pauses of the dance the deeds of bravery they had done and the number
of Sioux scalps they had obtained. At a distance a great number of Sioux looked upon the scene,
not daring to interfere when the troops of the fort were so near.[494]

By this treaty the Chippewas ceded an immense tract of land east of the Mississippi. In return
the United States agreed to pay annually for twenty years $9500 in money, $19,000 in goods,
$3000 for blacksmiths, $1000 for farmers, $2000 in provisions, and $500 in tobacco. One hundred
thousand dollars was to be paid to the half-breeds, and $70,000 was set aside to pay the claims
of the fur traders. The privilege of hunting, fishing, and gathering wild rice along the lakes
and rivers of the ceded territory was reserved for the Indians.[495]

This cession of land by the Chippewas had its counterpart in a treaty concluded by Sioux chiefs
on September 29, 1837, in Washington, whither they had been taken by Major Taliaferro. All
their lands east of the Mississippi--the land between the Black River and the Mississippi River
as far north as the Sioux-Chippewa boundary line was given up for various considerations amounting
in total to almost one million dollars.[496]

By these two treaties all the lands east of Fort Snelling were opened to settlement and commercial
exploitation. As soon as the news of their ratification came, developments immediately began--developments
which had an important bearing upon the future history of Old Fort Snelling. The days when
the Chippewa treaty was being drawn up are important, not only because they present an interesting
sight of the picturesque features of an Indian council, but also because they show how Fort
Snelling was assisting in the opening up of the rich timber lands and fertile prairies that
border the Mississippi River.

For many years the payment of annuities that had been promised the Sioux was an annual reminder
of these treaties. It was necessary that each Indian receive his portion of the goods and money
in person in order to prevent fraud. In the late summer of each year all the warriors of Red
Wing's and Wabasha's villages would leave their homes for the fort. In the agency building
the United States officers, with the roll of the Sioux nation before them, called the names
of the individuals, who one by one stepped up, touched the pen of the secretary, received the
money, and deposited it in the box of his band. Outside was the typical Indian group--squaws,
children, dogs, and braves smoking their pipes and talking of past achievements. And in order
that the Indians might always be conscious of the presence of the soldiers of the "Great Father",
the band of the fort played patriotic and thrilling airs.[497]

With the transfer of the Indians to reservations higher up on the Minnesota River the payment
of these annuities became a task which could no longer be performed at the fort. But the guarding
of the funds was a necessity. Captain James Monroe spent the latter half of the month of November,
1852, at Traverse des Sioux with one subaltern and forty-seven men of the dragoons and infantry,
protecting the money from bandits and Indians. Traders yearly frequented the region and wintered
on the banks of the Mississippi and Minnesota rivers, but their headquarters were located at
Prairie du Chien. Immediately after the beginning of the military establishment, however, the
movement mentioned by Professor Turner was initiated.

In the spring of 1820 J. B. Faribault came up with cattle for the garrison and decided to locate
in the vicinity as a fur trader. On August 9th the Indians granted Pike's Island to his wife,
Pelagi Faribault, who was the daughter of a Frenchman and a Sioux woman. Faribault immediately
built houses upon the island, but high water washed them away. Thereupon he removed to the
east side of the Mississippi. It is probably to this establishment that Beltrami referred in
1823 when he wrote that "there are no buildings round the fort, except three or four log-houses
on the banks of the river, in which some subaltern agents of the Southwest Company live among
the frogs."[500] This position was also upon low land, and on April 21, 1826, when the ice
began to move, Faribault's houses were carried away, while he and his family escaped in canoes.[501]
After this second disaster Faribault's establishment was erected at Mendota, where Alexis Bailly
had already located.[502] The growth of this village was very slow. But gradually old fur traders
settled about it with their families; voyageurs, when not employed on the rivers, lounged about
the trading house; and the agents and clerks of the American Fur Company had their permanent
homes in the rude log cabins which were clustered about.

In the meantime a new element had been added to the surroundings of the fort. It was already
three-quarters of a century since the traders had erected the first trading post upon the Red
River of the North. The early French voyageurs had left a race of half-breeds, popularly called
bois-brulés, who were the vassals of the two great companies. When their strength had been
spent in the labors of hunting and trapping, they retired to the vicinity of some post--the
largest of these settlements being Fort Garry, the germ of the modern city of Winnipeg, which
as early as 1823 boasted of a population of about six hundred.[503]

But not all of these half-breeds were traders. Thomas Douglas, the fifth
Lord Selkirk had secured from the Hudson's Bay Company the grant of an
 immense tract of land on the Red River, and in 1811 he began the
colonization of the region with poor immigrants from Scotland and
Ireland. But the knowledge of the internal troubles of the company put
an end to the immigration from these two countries, and Lord Selkirk
turned to Switzerland for new recruits. In 1821 a ship full of Swiss
sailed for Fort York on Hudson's Bay, and late in the fall the party
reached the Red River after a toilsome journey up the Nelson River and
across Lake Winnipeg. Being artisans and city-dwellers they were unable
to endure the rough agricultural labors in the bleak north. Cold,
floods, grasshoppers, and uncongenial neighbors rendered the location
unpleasant.[504]

Travellers from the south brought news of a better locality, and towards this place there soon
began a movement which, while not great in any one year, was long continued. In 1821 five families
made the journey to Fort Snelling, and their success inspired others. In 1823 thirteen families
made the perilous journey of four hundred miles. From year to year, as families became discouraged
they left the colony. Four hundred and eighty-nine persons had arrived at Fort Snelling up
to 1835.[505]

The many hardships endured by these travellers, and their pitiful condition, appealed to the
sympathy of the Americans,[506] and they were welcomed and aided by the officers at Fort Snelling.
During their stay one party was granted the use of the old barracks at Camp Cold Water. Employment
was given the men upon the reservation, and those who preferred to remain were allowed to settle
upon the military grounds. Comparatively few, however, made their homes here, the greater number
proceeding to Galena, Illinois, and Vevay, Indiana. On one occasion provisions for the down-river
journey in government keel-boats were issued by Colonel Snelling.[507]

A third class of settlers around the fort was composed of discharged soldiers. Men stationed
at Fort Snelling saw the agricultural value of the surrounding lands, or the possibility of
riches in the fur trade. Joseph R. Brown, who came as a drummer boy with Colonel Leavenworth
in 1819, entered the employ of the post sutler when he ceased his connection with the army,
and later he became an Indian trader.[508] Edward Phelan, John Hays, and William Evans, whose
terms of service at Fort Snelling expired about this time were among the first settlers on
the land ceded in the treaty of 1837.[509]

In the fall of 1837 it was revealed by a survey that there were one hundred and fifty-seven
white persons, not connected with the fort, living on the reservation. Of these, eighty-two
had their homes in the vicinity of Camp Cold Water and seventy-five at the fur trading establishments.
Approximately two hundred horses and cattle were owned by these persons.[510]

For many years pleasant relations existed between the officers at the post and the civilians.
The physician of the garrison willingly responded to calls for his aid made by the people living
outside the fort.

"I am compelled", wrote Joseph Renville to H. H. Sibley, "to ask you for some assistance in
regard to a disease which is very bad here--the whooping cough. I pray you to ask the doctor
for some medicine, particularly for some camphor."[511] Many a time Lawrence Taliaferro presided
at a frontier wedding, when in one of the rude huts on the reservation the picturesque figure
of the fur trader mingled with the glittering uniform of the officer, and dusky faces peered
in at the windows awaiting the end of the ceremony when they also could partake of such a feast
as only the prairies, lakes, and sutler's store could provide.[512]

In the troubles which naturally arose between the settlers and the Indians, the agent was the
mediator. Thirty of Peter Musick's cattle were killed by Indians who, wanting only powder horns,
left the carcasses to the wolves.[513] On July 13, 1834, Jacob Falstrom came to the agency
bringing the feet and hams of an ox which he claimed had been shot by a Sioux Indian at Mud
Lake. He claimed thirty-five dollars from the Indian Department for the loss which he had sustained.
As he was a poor man and had a large family to support Major Taliaferro was moved to make an
effort to aid him. "I proposed", he wrote in his diary the same evening, "to contribute $5
for the benefit of J. Faustram to Several of the Gentlemen of the Post--but not meeting with
a corresponding Sentiment--the poor fellow must be informed of my bad success in his behalf".[514]

Only a week later Joseph R. Brown asked to be paid for a hog which the Indians had killed.[515]
During the summer of 1837 Louis Massy claimed $150; Abraham Perry $50; and Benjamin F. Baker
$750 for similar damages.[516] Many years later the agent wrote of these unpleasant duties:
"The traders would make a detective of the agent if practicable. All thefts on each other were
reported to the agent for justice. Deserting boatmen (fed on corn and tallow) must be forced
to proceed up the St. Peter's with their outfits for the trade, right or wrong. Every ox, cow,
calf or hog lost by persons on the Indian lands, the agents were expected to find the culprits
or pay for these often fictitious losses."[517]

A new era in the history of these settlers began when the treaties of 1837 opened the lands
east of the Mississippi to settlement. Some time before they had heard rumors of the coming
negotiations at Washington, and those living west of the Mississippi sent a memorial to the
President stating that they had settled upon the land thinking it was part of the public domain
and believing that they would have the right of preëmption upon their claims. But now, if a
new treaty was made and the land west of the Mississippi purchased for a military reservation,
they asked that they be allowed reasonable compensation for the improvements they had made.
However, in the treaty no mention was made of a military reservation, the title to the land
around the fort being allowed to rest upon Pike's treaty of 1805.[518]

But to Major J. Plympton, who became the commanding officer at Fort Snelling during the summer
of 1837, the presence of these people was undesirable, and so in a letter written to the Adjutant-General
he called attention to the settlement and complained of the difficulty of obtaining fuel for
the garrison when the squatters were also engaged in the same task. In his reply on November
17, 1837, the Adjutant-General directed that a reservation be marked off--the extent of Pike's
purchase being indefinite.[519]

On March 26, 1838, Major Plympton sent a map of the territory which he chose to have considered
as a military reservation. This reservation, contrary to the expectations of many, included
land on the east side of the Mississippi. Thus there were many who thought that they had been
using their legal rights of preëmption when in reality they were only squatters. Order No.
65 issued at the post on July 26, 1838, forbade the erection of any buildings or fences upon
the reservation, and prohibited the cutting of timber except for public use.[520] During this
same time there seems to have been, on the part of those living on the west bank of the Mississippi,
a movement to the east side. Mrs. Abraham Perry came to Agent Taliaferro on October 18, 1838,
and complained that the Indians had killed three of her cattle "just below the stone cave"--that
is, Fountain Cave which was on the east bank of the river.[521] Yet her husband was among those
who had signed the petition of August 16, 1837, as residents on the west side.

Within these lands were also a number of shacks along the river bank a few miles below Fort
Snelling. Here whiskey was clandestinely transferred from the boats before they proceeded upstream.
During the winter of 1839 the presence of these resorts had a deteriorating effect upon the
garrison. Surgeon Emerson wrote to the Surgeon General of the United States on April 23, 1839:
"Since the middle of winter we have been completely inundated with ardent spirits, and consequently
the most beastly scenes of intoxication among the soldiers of this garrison and the Indians
in its vicinity, which no doubt will add many cases to our sick-list.... I feel grieved to
witness such scenes of drunkenness and dissipation where I have spent many days of happiness,
when we had no ardent spirits among us, and consequently sobriety and good conduct among the
command."[522]

Brigadier General John E. Wool inspected Fort Snelling on June 2nd, and in a letter on June
28th he urged that the settlers be driven off the reservation. "Such is the character of the
white inhabitants of that country", he wrote, "that if they cannot be permitted to carry on
their nefarious traffic with the Indians, it will sooner or later involve them in a war with
the United States."[523]

Influenced by these letters and reports Secretary of War J. R. Poinsett determined to compel
all the settlers to leave. It is, however, wrong to suppose that all were guilty of whiskey-peddling.
In a letter in which he commented on the number of persons present at the Sunday services in
the fort the chaplain wrote that "Some of the inhabitants also in the vicinity who were regular
in their attendance have removed."[524]

The instructions for the removal were made out on October 21, 1839, and sent to Edward James,
Marshal of the Territory of Wisconsin. They stated that if force should prove necessary to
compel the people to leave, the Marshal should call upon the commanding officer at Fort Snelling
for such aid. In that case he was instructed to act "with as much forbearance, consideration,
and delicacy as may be consistent with the prompt and faithful performance of the duties hereby
assigned to you".[525]

The orders were not received by Marshal James until February 18, 1840, and he immediately forwarded
them to his deputy, Ira B. Brunson of Prairie du Chien. As soon as navigation opened in the
spring he left for Fort Snelling. Notice was at once given to the settlers to move, and when
they refused a detachment of soldiers was called out on May 6th and under the direction of
a lieutenant and Marshal Brunson the household goods of the settlers were carried out and their
cabins destroyed.[526]

These ejected settlers found new homes a few miles down the river. In the midst of their rude
homes a log chapel was dedicated in November, 1841, to the Apostle St. Paul by the Reverend
Lucian Galtier.[527] As the ceded lands were more and more occupied, the little village enjoyed
a corresponding growth. Gradually the name of the chapel was adopted as the name of the settlement.
In 1849 the Territory of Minnesota was organized with the seat of the legislature at St. Paul.
The new community prospered, and the town swarmed with settlers, Indians, travellers, and adventurers
who lived in tents or slept in barns in lieu of better accommodations. There were also capitalists,
tradesmen, and officials who here made their homes.[528]

It was inevitable that between this new community and Fort Snelling close relations should
exist. The Territorial government was weak; to enforce order it was necessary for the Governor
to make requisition on the fort for troops.[529] The jail at Fort Snelling was also utilized
for the punishment of many undesirable characters always drawn to a new region. James Higby
who sold a promissory note which had already been paid, and Jacob Shipler who was arrested
on a charge of assault and battery were both given terms in the jail at the fort. John R. McGregor,
who became angry and threw his wife against a cooking stove, was separated from his help-meet
for a period of three months while he languished in the fort.[530]

The soldiers, in return, visited the frontier town, conducting themselves in the eyes of one
observer "with much dignity and sobriety".[531] Not always, however, could their actions be
thus described. Two soldiers who had just returned from an expedition to the Indian country,
started for St. Paul on the evening of their return, carrying with them their blankets which
they meant to sell for "refreshment".  But their birch canoe upset and before aid could reach
them they were drowned.[532]

But relations of a more innocent and more desirable sort also existed. In the officials of
the Territory the officers at the fort found congenial spirits. One of the popular pastimes
of the little city was to ride out upon the frozen Mississippi in sleighs to Fort Snelling.
"This command", narrates an official report, "had the honor of receiving His Excellency W.
A. Gorman Gov. of Minnesota and the Hon. James Shields late of the U. S. Senate, on the 9th
inst. by whom the Command was reviewed &c. in presence of a large concourse of Citizens."[533]
The band of the Sixth Regiment which had paraded through the streets of Mexico City playing
"Yankee Doodle" now found occupation in playing for the balls and parties of the frontier town.
Even the inhabitants of Stillwater, twenty-five miles distant, called on the fort to furnish
the music for the Valentine Ball on February 14, 1850.[534] During the same month a concert
was given, the proceeds going to the Washington Monument Association. A year later the ladies
who had arranged to give a tea party to raise money for the benefit of the poor children of
the community changed their plans and accepted the offer of the band who volunteered to give
a concert for the purpose.[535] The value of this association of citizens with the soldiers
led to the remark of an editor that "We consider this band as well as the whole garrison, with
its high intelligence--but especially the band, of infinite value to St. Paul--in fact, it
is the most powerful element of influence amongst us, for our good, next to the pulpit and
the press."[536]

The tourists who for many years had been frequenting the upper Mississippi now increased in
numbers. In the "Drive of All Visitors" were included the Falls of St. Anthony, Lake Harriet,
Minnehaha Falls, and Fort Snelling.[537] From the lookout tower of the fort on the edge of
the cliff, could be viewed the same scenery which had charmed Carver a hundred years before.
Undoubtedly many thought as did the newspaper man who wrote: "In the contemplation of this
scene from Ft. Snelling, one is ravished with a desire to get upon it; and to appropriate a
little domain for his home. It has the look of home. How can the Sioux ever consent to part
with these lands?"[538]

But two years later they did part with them. The two treaties in which the cession was acknowledged
were brought about without military aid.[539] This was in itself prophetic of the new status
of the fort. With the growth of the Territorial organization, one by one the duties connected
with Indian affairs, liquor troubles, and the protection of life and property were taken over
by the civil officers, with the military men as the executors of their laws only when the regular
forces of administration were unable to handle the difficulties.

And now the fort which had so long looked down upon the canoes of the Indians and traders saw
on its two rivers a new procession. Flatboats, steamboats, and canoes bore upstream the hardy
pioneers and their families, and returned loaded with the products of the farm and the forest.
The post which could have successfully resisted the attack of Indian warriors, or even the
siege of a civilized enemy was to fall before the invasion of the pioneers. The frontier had
suddenly leaped far to the westward. In 1858, when the troops were withdrawn, there was no
need of an establishment such as had existed during the first forty years. It was the passing
of Old Fort Snelling which for so many years had been the remotest outpost of American law.

The development of the Northwest was not brought about by the spectacular and romantic incidents
which the chroniclers loved to record. So gradual was its progress that the factors contributing
to it can be seen only in the perspective of fifty years. It was the result of the monotonous
details of the life of the fur trader who was the unwitting explorer of the Northwest, and
the forerunner of the permanent resident. The routine duties of garrison life and expeditions
to the Indian country, often barren of any visible result, added to its progress, as also did
the weary marches of the explorer and the minute notations of the scientist who accompanied
him. The patient sacrifices of the missionary who toiled at unaccustomed labors in the half-cleared
cornfield and taught his primitive pupils in the log mission-house, introduced a new civilization.
The daily contact of the Indian and the white man at the fort and agency were prophetic of
a new relationship between the two races.

But because these events were so commonplace the contemporary chroniclers have bequeathed only
a brief though eloquent epitome of this old Mississippi River post. It was the exception and
not the rule to note that a company of soldiers was up the river watching the movements of
the Indians, that a missionary had been presented with a ham, or that an explorer took with
him so many vegetables from the gardens of the fort that the gunwale of his boat was brought
within four inches of the water. But such are the stray references which indicate the almost
complete dependence upon the fort of all the factors in the development of the Northwest.

In the preceding pages an attempt has been made to gather together from all sources the references
which bear upon each particular phase of the process. In most cases they are few, not because
the military men were not concerned with them, but because at every post in the Mississippi
Valley conditions were practically the same and the public, being acquainted with these routine
duties, was more interested in the picturesque Indian legends or in the duels between the officers.
Of these latter incidents the pages of the history of Fort Snelling are full and in this respect
it was typical of the American army post. But it is also an example of that which is of more
importance--the contribution of the army to the transformation of the Mississippi Valley.

In many ways Fort Snelling is unique in the list of American forts. The British flag was borne
in triumph to wave from the flagstaff of Fort Ticonderoga after it had been evacuated by the
colonial patriots during the dark days of 1777; but never was a foreign flag borne into Fort
Snelling except to be burned in the sight of awestruck Indians. The guns of Fort Sumter announced
the opening of the Civil War; never were the cannon at Fort Snelling fired at a foe. Mackinac
was successively garrisoned by French, English, and American soldiers; whenever occupied by
troops Fort Snelling flew the stars and stripes. The stockades at Boonesborough and Harrodstown
were besieged by hundreds of savages who fought to gain entrance and obtain the scalps of the
pioneer men and women there gathered for safety; no hostile demonstration was ever staged near
Fort Snelling. Its history was not made by the rifles and sabers of the soldiers; the axe and
the plow of the pioneer who worked in safety beneath its potential protection have left their
history upon the landscape of the great Northwest.

NOTES AND REFERENCES

CHAPTER I

[1] Carver's Travels through the Interior Parts of North-America, pp. vii, viii.

[2] To the region lying on the upper waters of three great river systems--the Mississippi,
the St. Lawrence, and the Red River of the North--the writer has applied the name "Upper Northwest"
to distinguish it from the "Old Northwest" and the "Pacific Northwest".

[3] For a summary of the French explorations see Folwell's Minnesota, pp. 1-29. Thwaites's
France in America, p. 74, contains an excellent map of the French operations in the West.

[4] The report of Louis Antoine Bougainville, written in 1757 and based on the reports of Canadian
officials, shows the extent of French commerce at the close of the period of French control.
At Green Bay (La Baye) trade was carried on with the Folles-Avoines, Sacs, Foxes, Sioux, and
other tribes, the annual output being from five to six hundred packages of furs. In the North,
extending westward along what is now the international boundary to the Lake of the Woods and
then along the lakes and rivers of the Lake Winnipeg system, was the territory of the post
known as "The Sea of the West". This included seven forts and produced a yearly supply of from
three to four hundred packages. "These regions are everywhere vast prairies; this is the route
to take for the upper Missouri."--Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XVIII, pp. 167-195.
A picturesque account of the life of the French traders is given in Neill's The History of
Minnesota (Fourth Edition), pp. 115-119.

[5] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. IX, pp. 584, 585.

[6] Thwaites's Original Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, Vol. VII, p. 373. In 1792,
Peter Grant built a trading house on the site of St. Vincent, Minnesota, on the east bank of
the Red River, and in 1800-1801 the fort of Pembina was erected by the great traveller, Alexander
Henry, the younger.--South Dakota Historical Collections, Vol. I, p. 138.

[7] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. I, p. 684.

[8] Thwaites's Original Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, Vol. I, pp. 227, 228. Traders
of the Hudson's Bay Company also frequented the spot. Sergeant John Ordway records in his journal
for December 1, 1804, that "a Scotsman who is tradeing at the Mandens came to visit us. he
belonged to the hudson bay company.... he brought over Tobacco Beeds & other kinds of Goods.
& traded with the Mandens for their furs & buffalow Robes. they bring Some Guns to trade for
horses &. C. this hudsons bay comp^y lay Garrisoned near the N. W. Comp^y.... Eight or 10 days
travel by land a North course from this."--Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XXII, p. 169.

[9] Chittenden's The History of the American Fur Trade of the Far West, Vol. II, p. 556.

[10] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, pp. 279, 280.

[11] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 286.

[12] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 280.

[13] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 156.

[14] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 171.

[15] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 252.

[16] Wilkinson's instructions to Pike are printed in Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M.
Pike, Vol. II, pp. 842-844. Before the founding of Fort Snelling the Minnesota River was called
by the French voyageurs the "St. Pierre". When the Americans were established on its banks
they anglicized this name into "St. Peter's". The fort, the agency, and the fur traders' establishment
are commonly referred to in early literature as "St. Peter's". By a joint resolution of Congress
on June 19, 1852, the name Minnesota was ordered to be used in all public documents in which
the river was mentioned. This was the Indian name for the river.--United States Statutes at
Large,  Vol. X, p. 147. In mentioning this river use is made in this volume of the modern name,
except when quoting.

[17] The account of the treaty is given in Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol.
I, pp. 83, 84. The treaty itself is printed on page 231 and Pike's speech on pages 226-230.
Article I contains the land cession: "That the Sioux nation grant unto the United States, for
the purpose of establishment of military posts, nine miles square at the mouth of the St. Croix,
also from below the confluence of the Mississippi and St. Peters up the Mississippi to include
the falls of St. Anthony, extending nine miles on each side of the river, that the Sioux nation
grants to the United States the full sovereignty and power over said district forever." The
meaning of all this is extremely vague.

[18] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. I, p. 798.

[19] Publications of the Canadian Archives, No. 7, Documents Relating to the Invasion of Canada
and the Surrender of Detroit, 1812, pp. 11, 13.

[20] A petition of the London merchants to the English government stated that before the war
the annual export of furs from Canada amounted to £250,000. Updyke's The Diplomacy of the War
of 1812, p. 204. The figures are given on page 69.

[24] The best account of the massacre at Fort Dearborn is given in Quaife's Chicago and the
Old Northwest, 1673-1835, pp. 211-231.

[25] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XIX, p. 323.

[26] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, pp. 120, 194.

[27] Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collections, Vol. XV, p. 219. It must be stated that the
British in no way sought intentionally to use the Indians for the purpose of massacreing the
whites. The instructions to Dickson declared that he "should restrain them by all the means
in your power from acts of Cruelty and inhumanity". On March 16, 1813, Dickson reported to
the military secretary at Quebec that he had taken steps to redeem the soldiers, women, and
children of the ill-fated Fort Dearborn garrison, who were still captives.--Michigan Pioneer
and Historical Collections, Vol. XV, pp. 258, 259.

[28] Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collections, Vol. XV, pp. 321, 322.

[29] There is a summary of Dickson's activities in the Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol.
XII, pp. 133-153.

[30] Niles' Register, Vol. VI, p. 176.

[31] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XIII, p. 10; Niles' Register, Vol. VI, p. 242.

[32] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XI, pp. 254-270.

[33] Treaties and Conventions concluded between the United States of America and other powers
since July 4, 1776, pp. 404, 405.

[34] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol.

[35] These treaties were concluded: on July 18th with the Pottawattomies and Piankashaws; on
July 19th with the Tetons and Sioux of the Lakes, Sioux of St. Peter's River, and Yankton Sioux;
September 2nd with the Kickapoos; September 8th with the Wyandots; September 12th with the
Osages; September 13th with the Sacs of the Missouri; September 14th with the Foxes; September
16th with the Iowas. The treaties are published in Kappler's Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties,
Vol. II, pp. 110-123.

[36] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. II, p. 9.

[37] For these migrations see the Michigan Pioneer and Historical
Collections, Vol. XXIII, pp. 97, 443; Kingsford's The History of
Canada, Vol. IX, p. 69; Report on Canadian Archives, 1896, p. 157.
 During the negotiations at Ghent the British commissioners had
sought to have established a permanent Indian territory to be a barrier
state between the two powers.--Updyke's The Diplomacy of the War of
1812, p. 204.

The Indians felt they had been abandoned by the English. Hence the liberality in gift distribution
was an attempt to appease them.

[38] See the reports of W. H. Puthuff in the Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XIX, pp.
430-433, 472-474.

[39] Schoolcraft's Personal Memoirs of a Residence of Thirty Years with the Indian Tribes, p. 19.

[40] Irving's The Sketch-Book (Hudson Edition), p. 489.

[41] Carr's Missouri, p. 121.

[42] Niles' Register, Vol. VIII, p. 436, August 19, 1815.

[43] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. II, p. 86.

[44] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. III, p. 332. John Jacob Astor of the American Fur
Company has received the credit for the passage of this law.--Folwell's Minnesota, p. 54; Coman's
Economic Beginnings of the Far West, Vol. I, pp. 344, 345. This is neglecting the fact that
there was a unanimous outcry against foreign traders--one of the signs that the War of 1812
marks the rise of American nationality. The legislation of April 29, 1816, was not wholly satisfactory
to Astor. "I have seen a letter", wrote William H. Puthuff, Indian agent at Mackinac, "addressed
by J. J. Astor to a Mr. Franks a British trader now at this place in which Mr. Astor expresses
surprise and regret at the passage of a law forbidding British subjects from trading with Indians,
within the American limits etc."--Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XIX, p. 423. What
Mr. Astor wanted was the prohibition of trade by American private citizens as well as by British
private citizens. If his American Fur Company were given a monopoly as he desired, he also
wanted to be free to employ such persons--American or British--as he needed.

[47] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 279.

[48] Niles' Register, Vol. XIV, pp. 387-389.

[49] There is an excellent account of the United States trading house system in Quaife's Chicago
and the Old Northwest, 1673-1835, pp. 289-309.

[50] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 228.

[51] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. II, p. 6.

[52] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XX, p. 39.

CHAPTER II

[53] For the erection of these posts see Quaife's Chicago and the Old Northwest, 1673-1835,
p. 265; Thwaites's Wisconsin, pp. 180-182; Gue's History of Iowa, Vol. I, pp. 137, 138.

[54] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. I, p. 669.

[55] Major Long's journal is printed in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 9-88.

[56] Niles' Register, Vol. XIV, p. 192.

[57] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. I, p. 779.

[58] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), p. 319.

[59] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. II, p. 32. See also the preface to James's
Account of an Expedition from Pittsburgh to the Rocky Mountains in Thwaites's Early Western
Travels, Vol. XIV, pp. 9-26. For the site of this fort see Thwaites's Early Western Travels,
Vol. XXII, p. 275, note 231.

[61] Executive Documents, 1st Session, 34th Congress, Vol. I, Pt. 2, Document No. 1, p. 21.

[62] Leavenworth's A Genealogy of the Leavenworth Family in the United States, p. 152.

[63] Van Cleve's "Three Score Years and Ten," Life-Long Memories of Fort Snelling, Minnesota, p. 7.

[64] In the Detroit Gazette, February 18, 1820, Vol. III, No. 135, there is reprinted from
the National Intelligencer an "Extract of a letter from a gentleman of the expedition to the
Falls of St. Anthony, to his friend in Washington, dated Cantonment of the 5th regt. U. S.
Infantry, St. Peter's River, Nov. 10, 1819." It is from this letter that the dates of arriving
at and leaving the various places are taken. The Adjutant General in an order praised the garrison
at Fort Howard "for the economy and expedition with which the command constructed transport
boats for the accommodation of the 5th regiment in its passage to the Mississippi."--Detroit
Gazette, September 10, 1819.

[65] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. V, p. 96, note. Mrs. Van Cleve gives another version
of this affair: "When all was in order, Colonel Leavenworth stepped forth, and, through an
interpreter, formally requested of the Chief permission to pass peaceably through their country.
The Chief, a very handsome young brave, advanced, and, with his right arm uncovered, said,
with most expressive gestures: 'My brother, do you see the calm, blue sky above us? Do you
see the lake that lies so peacefully at our feet? So calm, so peaceful are our hearts towards you.

That these Indians were not so friendly as this account would indicate is apparent from the
statement in Major Forsyth's narrative that Captain Whistler of Fort Howard had been fired
at, at different times during the summer of 1819 by these Winnebagoes.--Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. III, p. 167.

[66] Major Forsyth's narrative, covering the time from his departure from St. Louis on June
7th until his arrival there again on September 17th, is published in the Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. III, pp. 139-167; also in the Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. VI,
pp. 188-219. It is from this narrative that the facts regarding the progress of the expedition
were obtained.

[67] Major Forsyth's narrative in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 147,
148, 149.

[68] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol.

[69] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 149-153, 159. Mrs. Ellet in her sketch
of Mrs. Clark says a week was spent at this place.--Ellet's Pioneer Women of the West, p. 350.

[70] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 153, 154. Neill records that the troops
did not reach the Minnesota River "until September".--Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth
Edition), p. 320. But in Appendix L., p. 891, he gives the same dates as Forsyth. In Folwell's
Minnesota, p. 55, the statement is made that "the command arrived at Mendota August 23". As
the main body of soldiers did not arrive until August 24th, this latter date should be taken
as the birthday of Fort Snelling.

[71] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 154-157; Detroit Gazette, October 22,
1819, February 18, 1820.

[72] Detroit Gazette, February 18, 1820. The baby was Charlotte Ouisconsin Clark who married
General Horatio P. Van Cleve. In 1888 she published a book of reminiscences. It possesses all
the merits and defects of a book of reminiscences--vividness of pictures--inaccuracy in regard
to specific facts.

[74] Ellet's Pioneer Women of the West, p. 351; Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI,
p. 48. James Doty, who kept the official journal of the Cass Expedition of 1820, and who received
his information from the officers at Camp Cold Water, gives the number as forty.--Wisconsin
Historical Collections, Vol. XIII, p. 214. Philander Prescott in his reminiscences states that
"Some fifty or sixty had died, and some ten men died after I arrived".--Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. VI, p. 478. L. Grignon wrote on April 3, 1820, that "They tell me that fifty
Soldiers of the river St. Pierre have died of Scurvy".--Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol.
XX, p. 161.

In writing of the attack of scurvy Mr. H. H. Sibley remarks: "It was doubtless caused by the
bad quality of the provisions, especially of the pork, which was spoiled by the villany of
the contractors, or their agents, in drawing the brine from the barrels that contained it,
after leaving St. Louis, in order to lighten the load, and causing the barrels to be refilled
with river water, before their delivery at the post, to avoid detection. The troops were compelled
to live on this unwholesome fare for two successive seasons, before the fraud was discovered."--Minnesota
Historical Collections, Vol. I, pp. 473, 474. Nowhere else is this explanation given. Sickness
could easily come at a frontier post without such villainy. During the same winter at Camp
Missouri over half of the garrison of seven hundred men were sick, and nearly one hundred of
them died. At Council Bluff there was also a great deal of sickness.--Detroit Gazette, July
21, September 1, 1820.

[76] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. I, p. 473.

[77] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 103.

[78] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, pp. 478, 479.

[79] Reports of Committees, 1st Session, 35th Congress, Vol. II, Report No. 351, p. 136.

[81] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 105.

[82] Snelling to Taliaferro, November 7, 1821.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 30.

[83] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 107.

[84] Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 153.

[85] Schoolcraft's Narrative Journal of Travels from Detroit Northwest through the Great Chain
of American Lakes to the sources of the Mississippi River, pp. 292-315. The official journal
was kept by James Doty. The time spent with Leavenworth's troops is described in the Wisconsin
Historical Collections, Vol. XIII, pp. 212-216.

[86] Captain Kearny's journal is printed in the Missouri Historical Society Collections, Vol.
III, pp. 8-29, 99-131. Pages 104-110 are devoted to the time spent at Camp Cold Water.

[87] These facts regarding the change of the name are taken from Upham's The Women and Children
of Fort St. Anthony, Later named Fort Snelling in the Magazine of History, Vol. XXI, pp. 38,
39. Dr. Upham received his information from a letter from the Adjutant General of the United
States.

CHAPTER III

[88] See Miss Gallaher's article on The Military-Indian Frontier 1830-1835 in The Iowa Journal
of History and Politics, Vol. XV, pp. 393-428.

[89] Langham to Taliaferro, August 19, 1820.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 62.

[90] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 117.

[91] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), p. 901.

[92] Marsh to Taliaferro, June 26, 1827.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 76.

[93] This was the opening of the Winnebago War, often called the "Red Bird War". Accounts of
it are given in William Joseph Snelling's Early Days at Prairie du Chien in the Wisconsin Historical
Collections, Vol. V, pp. 144-153; and State Papers, 1st Session, 20th Congress, Vol. I, Document
No. 1, pp. 150-163.

[94] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 118.

[96] Taliaferro to Cass, October 4, 1832.--Indian Office Files, 1832, No. 226.

[97] Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 30th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, pp. 439, 440,
459; Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), pp. 483-487.

[98] For an account of the Winnebagoes and their many migrations see Jackson's A Century of
Dishonor, pp. 218-256.

[99] Executive Documents, 1st Session, 31st Congress, Vol. III, Pt. 2, Document No. 5, pp.
1028, 1029; The Minnesota Pioneer, September 13, 1849.

[100] The Minnesota Pioneer, November 28, December 12, 1849.

[101] Executive Documents, 1st Session, 32nd Congress, Vol. II, Pt. 3, Document No. 2, p. 421.
"The recent arrival at Fort Snelling of a company of dragoons, so long wanted, will greatly
assist in intercepting the migration southward of this discontented people."--Report of Alexander
Ramsey, October 21, 1850, in Senate Documents, 2nd Session, 31st Congress, Vol. I, Document
No. 1, p. 81.

[103] Senate Documents, 2nd Session, 28th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, pp. 316, 423.

[104] Bryce's The Remarkable History of the Hudson's Bay Company, pp. 365-372. A description
of a hunt, written in French by Rev. M. Belcourt, is given in Executive Documents, 1st Session,
31st Congress, Vol. VIII, Document No. 51, pp. 44-52.

[106] This was during the period that Professor William A. Dunning describes as "The Roaring
Forties". "And the far flung interests of the British Empire need no more striking illustration
than the fact that in whatever direction the Americans sought to expand their bounds, whether
on the Atlantic or on the Pacific, in the Gulf of the tropics or under the Arctic circle, they
found subjects of the Queen, with vested rights, opposing the movement."--Dunning's The British
Empire and the United States, pp. 96, 97.

[107] Captain Sumner's report is printed in the Executive Documents,
1st Session, 29th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 2, pp. 217-220. It is
reprinted with explanatory notes in The Iowa Journal of History and
Politics, Vol. XI, pp. 258-267. It contains
fifty-five pages. Accompanying the expedition was John Pope, Brevet
 Captain of the Topographical Engineers. His report is published
in Senate Documents, 1st Session, 31st Congress, Vol. X, Document No.
42. There is an excellent map attached to the report.

[109] Colonel Smith's report is printed in the Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 35th Congress,
Vol. II, Pt. II, Document No. 1, pp. 426-454.

[110] Ansel Briggs to the Secretary of War.--Indian Office Files, 1849, No. 206. The petition
was dated Washington, Iowa, July 31, 1849.--Indian Office Files, 1849, No. 208.

[111] Major Woods's report is found in the Indian Office Files, 1849, No. 174.

[112] The Minnesota Pioneer, April 3, 1850.

[113] The Minnesota Pioneer, May 16, 1850.

[114] See the letter of William Hutchinson, who was one of the party. It is published in The
Minnesota Pioneer, June 13, 1850. "Iowa City looks as it did five years ago", he wrote. "A
few houses were built since that time; but evidently were not the capitol located at this place,
it would be no great shakes, though in time it is bound to come out. Some years since, Uncle
Sam erected expensive bridges for the good citizens of Iowa, betwixt Dubuque and Iowa City;
and strange to say the people are suffering them to rot down without covering them. Iowa City
has grown in ten years as large as Saint Paul, which is not 2 years old. Steamboats often get
up to this place, but all will not suffice."

[115] Report of Major Woods.--Indian Office Files, 1850, No. 363.

[116] The Iowa Star (Fort Des Moines), July 18, 1850.

[117] The Annals of Iowa (First Series), Vol. VII, pp. 284, 285.

"Part of Company D. 1st regiment of U. S. Dragoons under command of Lieut. Gardner passed through
here on their way to the Missouri river. We understand they intend to pay a visit to the Indian
tribes on the upper Missouri and from thence across Minnesota Territory to their quarters at
Ft. Snelling."--Quoted from the Fort Des Moines Gazette in the Miners' Express (Dubuque), September
4, 1850. The return of the troops to Fort Snelling is noted in The Minnesota Pioneer, October
3, 1850. An account of the journey is printed in The Minnesota Pioneer, February 12, 1852.

[119] Asa Whitney, a New York merchant, petitioned Congress in January, 1845, for a franchise
and a grant of land to make this dream a reality.--Congressional Globe, 2nd Session, 28th Congress,
pp. 218, 219.

[120] Act of March 3, 1853.--United States Statutes at Large, Vol. X, p. 219.

[121] Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 33rd Congress, Document No. 91, pp. 1, 13, 74.

[122] Executive Documents, 1st Session, 36th Congress, Document No. 56, p. 36; Post Returns,
May, 1853, in the archives of the War Department, Washington, D. C.

[123] A brief account of the expedition is given in Paxson's The Last American Frontier, pp.
197-203. The reports of all the surveys were published by the government. The various reports
of all the explorers are bound in a set of twelve volumes, in which Governor Stevens's first
account may be found in Vol. I, and the later narrative in Vol. XII, Pts. I and II.

[125] Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 28th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 2, p. 112.

[126] Kappler's Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties, Vol. II, p. 566.

[128] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. X, Pt. I, p. 181.

[131] The Minnesota Pioneer, July 19, 1849.

[132] The Minnesota Pioneer, September 6, 1849, July 11, November 21, 1850.

[133] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. X, Pt. I, pp. 193, 199.

[135] Holcombe's Minnesota in Three Centuries, Vol. II, pp. 327, 328; Annals of Iowa (First
Series), Vol. VII, p. 290; Post Returns, March, April, 1853, in the archives of the War Department,
Washington, D. C.

[136] For Colonel Smith's expedition see above, Note 109. For the building of Fort Abercrombie
see the Collections of the State Historical Society of North Dakota, Vol. II, Pt. II, p. 7.

[138] Congressional Globe, 1st Session, 35th Congress, Pt. III, p. 2595.

[139] For the sale of Fort Snelling see Dr. Folwell's paper on The Sale of Fort Snelling, 1857,
in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XV, pp. 393-410.

[143] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VIII, p. 431.

[144] For papers relating to the readjustment see Executive Documents, 3rd Session, 40th Congress,
Vol. VII, Document No. 9.

CHAPTER IV

[145] Quoted in Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul, pp. 58, 59.

[146] In the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VIII, pp. 430, 431, there is a list of
the commanding officers from September, 1819 to May, 1858.

[147] For the life of Henry Leavenworth see the Kansas Historical Collections, Vol. VII, pp.
577, 578, Vol. IX, p. 569, Vol.

[148] American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Vol. I, p. 777.

[149] Ellet's Pioneer Women of the West, pp. 310-323, contains a sketch of the activities of
Captain Snelling during the war.

[150] Ellet's Pioneer Women of the West, pp. 313, 314.

[151] Ellet's Pioneer Women of the West, p. 316.

[152] From the reminiscences of Mrs. Ann Adams in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol.
VI, pp. 96, 97. Mrs. Adams, as a child, lived several years in the Snelling household.

[154] From a manuscript entitled "Remarks on General Wm. Hull's Memoirs of the Campaign of
the Northwestern Army, 1812", by Josiah Snelling.--Draper Collection, 8 U. 114, pp. 42, 43.

[155] The Works of Daniel Webster, Vol. V, p. 410.

[156] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VIII, pp. 440, 441.

[158] Senate Documents, 1st Session, 30th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, p. 367.

[159] There is a sketch of Martin Scott in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III,
pp. 180-187, from which this story is taken.

[161] Niles' Register, Vol. 73, p. 130.

[163] Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. II, p. 292.

[164] In his notes to Hiawatha Longfellow quotes from the introduction of Mrs. Eastman's book,
p. ii.--Longfellow's Complete Poetical Works (Cambridge Edition), p. 666.

[165] Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. II, p. 292. VIII, p. 441.

[167] The National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. VIII, pp. 89, 90.

[168] Rhodes's History of the United States, Vol. IV, p. 328.

[169] The American Annual Cyclopaedia, 1863, p. 816.

[170] Bancroft's History of Oregon, Vol. II, pp. 611, 612. For the career of General Canby
see Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. I, pp. 517, 518.

[171] This incident is taken from Folsom's Fifty Years in the Northwest, pp. 755, 756. Mr.
Folsom says he took it "from a St. Paul paper of 1887".

[172] For the Dred Scott case see McMaster's A History of the People of the United States,
Vol. VIII, pp. 278, 279.

[173] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. I, p. 50.

[174] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IV, p. 564.

[175] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IV, pp. 729-739.

[176] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IX, p. 395.

[178] Auto-biography of Maj. Lawrence Taliaferro in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol.
VI, p. 249.

[180] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 353.

[181] Taliaferro to Crawford, July 15, 1839.--Indian Office Files, 1839, No. 512.

[182] These papers are in the possession of the Minnesota Historical Society. The dates covered
in these diaries are from December, 1830, to June, 1831; May 25 to September 21, 1833; May
23 to August 28, 1834.

[183] These letters are in the possession of the Minnesota Historical Society. In Volume I
of these letters is the following notice: "These 326 letters, are part of the great mass of
correspondence received by Maj. Lawrence Taliaferro, Indian Agent at Fort Snelling, 1819-1840.
They constitute but a small part of his accumulations in twenty years. The rest were burned
in his house at Bedford, Pa., in 18. It was a great loss to us, as, had they been spared, we
would have received all of them. But even these 326 contain a large amount of valuable material
for Minnesota history. Even as autographs they are valuable, [see autobiography of Taliaferro,
Vol. 6, Coll.] These letters were given by Maj. T. in March, 1868. Arranged, bound and indexed
(by J. F. W.) 1891."

[184] Photostatic copies of many of these letters were taken and are to be found in the library
of the Wisconsin Historical Society, where they were consulted.

[185] These letter books are now in the possession of the Kansas State Historical Society at
Topeka, where they were consulted. The only volume containing letters from Major Taliaferro
is referred to as the William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832. In the Taliaferro Letters
are many letters from William Clark and Elbert Herring in which they address Mr. Taliaferro
as "major".

[188] Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 11. A note on this letter gives these dates.

[189] Nowhere is the date of his arrival at Fort Snelling given. In his autobiography he writes
of his journey: "Jean Baptiste Faribault and family, had gone through by land, in charge of
Colonel Leavenworth's horses and cows".--Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 198.
It was in the spring of 1820 that Faribault performed this service.--Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. II, p. 103.

[190] Clark to the Secretary of War, August 20, 1832.--Indian Office Files, 1832, No. 285.
For his resignation see Indian Office Files, 1824, No. 39.

[191] Taliaferro's Diary, March 24, 1831.

[192] Taliaferro to Crawford, December 12, 1839.--Indian Office Files, 1839, No. 516.

[193] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), pp. 337-339.

[195] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, pp. 339, 340.

[196] Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 213, 1827, No. 54, 1843, No. 222.

[197] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, p. 341.

CHAPTER V

[198] See Notes on Canada and the North-West States of America in Blackwood's Magazine, Vol.
LXXVIII, p. 323, September, 1855. These articles by Laurence Oliphant were later published
in book form under the title of Minnesota and the Far West.

[200] Seymour's Sketches of Minnesota, the New England of the West, p. 103.

[201] This sketch of the fort is obtained from the map of Fort Snelling in the Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. VIII, p. 431; and from a Report of the capacity and condition of the barracks,
quarters, hospital, storehouses, &c., at Fort Snelling, Minnesota Territory, made to the Quartermaster
General. This report was made on August 23, 1856.

[202] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. IV, p. 122.

[203] Latrobe's The Rambler in North America, Vol. II, p. 295.

[204] A statement of the equipment at the various posts during the fourth quarter of 1834 is
printed in the American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. V, p. 853-900.

[205] Taliaferro to Lucas, September 30, 1839.--Indian Office Files, 1839, No. 492.

[206] Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 153.

[207] Taliaferro to William Clark, August 17, 1830.--Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 139.

[208] Taliaferro's Diary, April 7, 1831.

[209] Taliaferro's Diary, March 8, 1831.

[211] Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 153.

[212] Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 207.

[213] Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 153. In the Sibley House at Mendota is hung an oil painting
of Fort Snelling made by Sergeant Thomas who was stationed at Fort Snelling sometime between
1836 and 1842. This painting, which was made from the hill behind Sibley House, shows the location
of these various buildings.

[215] Latrobe's The Rambler in North America, Vol. II, pp. 295, 296. Charles Joseph Latrobe
visited the post in the fall of 1833.

[216] These buildings are shown in the picture mentioned in note 213, above.

[217] There is a description of Mendota given in Seymour's Sketches of Minnesota, the New England
of the West, pp. 101, 102.

[218] Seymour's Sketches of Minnesota, the New England of the West, p. 117; Bishop's Floral
Home; or, First Years of Minnesota, pp. 156, 157.

[219] These figures are taken from Keating's Narrative of an Expedition to the Source of St.
Peter's River, Vol. I, p. 309.

[220] Latrobe's The Rambler in North America, Vol. II, p. 302.

[223] See below, the chapter entitled Soldiers of the Cross.

[224] This enumeration of the Indian villages is from Pond's The Dakotas or Sioux in Minnesota
as they were in 1834 in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, pp. 320-330. The spelling
of the names follows that used by Pond, although they were all written in many ways. The population
figures are from Taliaferro's report in 1834, found in Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 203.

[225] See the description of an Indian village in Latrobe's The Rambler in North America, Vol.
I, pp. 342, 343.

CHAPTER VI

[226] On December 22, 1819, the House of Representatives passed a resolution directing the
Secretary of War, J. C. Calhoun, to prepare a system of martial law and field service. His
report was communicated to the House on December 26, 1820, and was entitled Systems of Martial
Law, and Field Service, and Police. It is composed of two parts, namely, General Regulations
for the Army, and A System of Martial Law. It is from these regulations that the following
sketch of the routine life at a military post is built up. The report is published in the American
State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. II, pp. 201-274.

[227] Ingersoll's A History of the War Department of the United States, pp. 205, 206.

[228] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 119.

[229] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. II, p. 210.

[230] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 95.

[233] These account books are in the possession of the Minnesota Historical Society.

[234] Bishop's Floral Home; or, First Years of Minnesota, p. 161.

[235] Taliaferro's Diary, March 22, 1831; Post Returns, March, 1840, in the archives of the
War Department, Washington, D. C.

[236] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 97.

[237] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 345.

[238] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, pp. 336, 344.

[239] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. III, pp. 341, 342; Post Returns, September,
1828, in the archives of the War Department, Washington, D. C.

[240] Taliaferro's Diary, February 3, 1831. III, p. 115.

[243] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 345.

[244] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. I, p. 476.

[246] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. III, p. 277.

[247] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. II, p. 205; Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. VI, p. 101.

[248] Eastman's Dahcotah; or, Life and Legends of the Sioux around Fort Snelling, pp. 144, 145.

[249] American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. II, p. 265.

[250] Detroit Gazette, February 18, 1820. I, p. 305.

[252] The Minnesota Pioneer, July 15, 1852. VI, p. 340.

[255] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VIII, p. 432.

[256] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 115.

[257] Joseph M. Street to Postmaster General Barry, April 27, 1831.--Street Papers, No. 15,
Historical Department, Des Moines, Iowa.

[258] Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul, p. 44.

[259] Proceedings of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1913, pp. 116, 117.

[260] Taliaferro's Diary, April 2, 5, 10, February 27, 1831.

[261] Street to Clark, March 10, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832, p.
132; Post Returns, March, 1830. See also Post Returns, December, 1829, December, 1830, in the
archives of the War Department, Washington, D. C.

[262] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 342.

[264] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 342.

[265] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 130. "Monsieur Tonson" was a very popular
farce written by W. T. Moncrief in 1821. The French barber, Morbleu, is greatly troubled by
a steady stream of visitors who come to make inquiries regarding a certain fictitious Mr. Thompson,
hoping thereby to gain information regarding Adolphine de Courcy who has been traced to his
door.--Walsh's Heroes and Heroines of Fiction, p. 360.

[266] Taliaferro's Diary, January 20, February 22, 1831.

[267] Snelling to Taliaferro, October 19, July 25, 1824.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, Nos. 50, 56.

[268] The Minnesota Pioneer, November 28, 1849.

[269] Taliaferro's Diary, February 10, 11, 24, 1831.

[270] George F. Turner to H. H. Sibley, February 11, 1842.--Sibley Papers, 1840-1850.

[271] Taliaferro to Street, March 30, 1831.--Street Papers, No. 12.

[272] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 100.

[273] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 112.

[274] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), p. 920. General Edmund P. Gaines inspected
the post shortly afterwards and reported: "From a conversation with the colonel, I can have
no doubt that he has erred in the course pursued by him in reference to some of those controversies,
inasmuch as he has intimated to his officers his willingness to sanction, in certain cases,
and even to participate in personal conflicts, contrary to the twenty-fifth article of war."--American
State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. IV, p. 123.

[275] Taliaferro's Diary, March 27, 1831.

[277] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, pp. 321, 322.

[278] Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 203.

[279] Taliaferro to Clark, August 5, 1830.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832, p. 2.

[281] The quotations are taken from Beltrami's description of an Indian council which he attended
at Fort Snelling in 1823.--Beltrami's A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, Vol. II, pp. 217-219.

[282] These are taken from a list which is typical of the character of the presents, among
the papers of Thomas Forsyth.--Draper Manuscripts, 2T2.

[283] Annals of Congress, 1st session, 17th Congress, Vol. I, pp. 319, 320.

[284] Taliaferro's Diary, February 19, 1831. The speech of the chief closes thus: "We know
you have nothing on hand for your children, but we hope you will give us some Pork & Bread
& a little Tobacco--as our pipes are out & have been for some time our old men will be pleased."
The village of the Red Head was St. Louis, the Red Head being General William Clark, the superintendent
of Indian affairs. Issued 24 Rats Bread 20 pounds of Pork--15 lbs. of tobacco."--Taliaferro's
Diary, January 23, 1831. See also the diary under the dates of December 24, 1830, January 13,
17, 1831.

[286] Cass to Taliaferro, July 28, 1825.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 57.

[287] Taliaferro's Diary, July 19, 1834.

[288] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IV, p. 738.

[289] Taliaferro's Diary, March 4, 1831.

[290] Taliaferro to Harris, February 21, 1838.--Indian Office Files, 1838, No. 631.

[291] For the suffering during the winter of 1842-1843 and the steps taken to relieve it see
the letter from Dr. Williamson in the Missionary Herald, Vol. 39, p. 355, September, 1843;
and Bruce to Chambers, April 3, 1843, in Indian Office Files, 1843, No. 222.

[292] Taliaferro to Dodge, June 30, 1838.--Indian Office Files, 1838, No. 690.

[293] Taliaferro to Clark, March 3, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832, p. 129.

[294] Taliaferro to Clark, September 14, 1834.--Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 206.

[295] Taliaferro's Diary, July 7, 1834.

[296] Taliaferro's Diary, December 25, 1830.

[297] Taliaferro's Diary, June 28, 30, 1834. On January 17, 1831, he gave a blanket in which
to bury a woman.

[298] Indian Office Files, 1832, Nos. 287, 294, 295, 296.

[300] Snelling to Taliaferro, November 13, 1820.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 21.

[301] Found among the Sibley Papers, 1830-1840.

[302] Taliaferro to Cass, March 3, 1832.--Indian Office Files, 1832, No. 289.

[303] Taliaferro to Clark, July 15, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832, p. 235.

[304] Post Returns, April, May, 1834, July, 1835, in the archives of the War Department, Washington,
D. C.

[305] "These warriors of Mr. Rainville's were constantly with me, for they knew that I was
an English warrior, as they called me, and they are very partial to the English."--Marryat's
A Diary in America, Vol. II, p. 91. Captain Marryat, the English novelist, visited the upper
Mississippi region in 1837. II, p. 657, footnote.

[306] Niles' Register, Vol. XXVI, p. 363, July 31, 1824; Vol. LIII, p. 33, September 16, 1837.

[307] Marryat'a A Diary in America, Vol. III, pp. 221, 222.

[308] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, p. 320.

[309] Niles' Register, Vol. LIII, p. 82, October 7, 1837.

[310] Snelling to Taliaferro, October 19, 1824.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 50.

[311] Taliaferro's Diary, March 18, 1831.

[312] Taliaferro's Diary, March 11, 1831.

[314] Renville to Sibley, August 21, 1840.--Sibley Papers, 1830-1840.

[315] Quoted in Neill's The History of Minnesota, pp. 338, 339. The two men murdered on the
Missouri River in 1820 were Isadore Poupon, a French half-breed, and Joseph F. Andrews, a Canadian.

[316] Quaife's Chicago and the Old Northwest, 1673-1835, p. 283.

[317] Snelling to Taliaferro, March 19, 1822.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 32. The quotation
is taken from this letter. See also Calhoun to Snelling, September 18, 1822.--Taliaferro Letters,
Vol. I, No. 40.

[318] Letter of George Johnson, November 2, 1825.--Indian Office Files, 1825-1826, No. 4.

[319] Taliaferro to Harris, September 10, 1838.--Indian Office Files, 1838, No. 663.

[321] Kellogg's Early Narratives of the Northwest, 1634-1699, p. 50.

[322] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 209.

[323] Baker to Taliaferro, May 19, 1829.--Indian Office Files, 1829, No. 64.

[324] Speech of Flat Mouth, May 27, 1827.--Indian Office Files, 1827, No. 14.

[325] Indian Office Files, 1827, No. 9.

[326] From Mrs. Van Cleve's reminiscences in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III,
p. 80. III, pp. 76-81; Running the Gantlet by William J. Snelling (the son of Colonel Snelling)
in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. I, pp. 439-456.

The last mentioned account was originally published as a magazine article, and much of it is
undoubtedly the product of the author's imagination. It is from this that the writer drew the
story of Toopunkah Zeze. The article by Mrs. Van Cleve is full of errors and there are some
mistakes in Mrs. Adams's reminiscences. For the facts of the attack the writer depended upon
the two reports in the Indian Office Files. In a letter written from Prairie du Chien the next
winter Joseph Street says that a hostage, an innocent man, was among the Sioux who were executed.--Street
to Dr. Alexander Posey, December 11, 1827, in the Street Papers, No. 7.

Of those who were shot, says Sibley in his reminiscences, all recovered.--Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. I, p. 475. On the other hand Flat Mouth complained to Schoolcraft in 1832
that four of the number died.--Schoolcraft's Narrative of an Expedition through the Upper Mississippi
to Itasca Lake, p. 85.

[328] Indian Office Files, 1829, No. 63.

[329] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 135. As here given the mother's speech
is partly direct, and partly indirect discourse. The writer has changed it all to the direct
discourse.

[330] The attack on Hole-in-the-Day's band is narrated in the letter of Plympton to General
Jones, August 13, 1838.--Indian Office Files, 1838, No. 618. See also Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. II, pp. 134-136; Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp.
136, 137.

[331] The particulars of the encounter in 1839 are given in a letter written by the Right Reverend
Mathias Loras in July 1839, and published in Acta et Dicta: A Collection of historical data
regarding the origin and growth of the Catholic Church in the Northwest, Vol. I, No. 1, pp.
18-21; and Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 139-147.

[332] "Instead of lessening the disasters of Indian warfare, the building of Fort Snelling
in the heart of the Indian country and upon the line dividing the ranges of the Dakotas and
the Chippewas, had the direct effect of vastly increasing the horrors of that warfare. Depending
upon the protection of the military, both tribes brought their women and children into the
disputed territory, where before the coming of the soldiers they would never have dared to
expose them, and it soon developed that the fort afforded no protection to the children of
the forest against the savagery of their hereditary enemies, who made treaties of peace only
to thereby gain better opportunity for butchery."--Robinson's A History of the Dakota or Sioux
Indians, p. 154. This is Part II of the South Dakota Historical Collections, Vol. II.

[333] At the forks of the Chippewa River in 1838, eleven Sioux were killed while asleep, by
Chippewas whom they were entertaining. The mission at Lake Pokegama was attacked in 1840. In
1842, a battle was fought at Pine Coulie near the Indian village of Kaposia. In 1850, on Apple
River in Wisconsin, fourteen Chippewas were scalped. See the article by Rev. S. W. Pond on
Indian Warfare in Minnesota in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 129-138.
As late as 1854, D. B. Herriman, the Chippewa agent, reported that during the preceding year
nearly one hundred Chippewas had been killed and scalped by the Sioux. But none of these massacres
took place at the fort.--Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 33rd Congress, Vol. I, Pt. 1, Document
No. 1, p. 260.

[335] Taliaferro's Diary, January 23, 1831.

[336] Taliaferro's Diary, June 4, 1831. For other occasions during the winter and spring of
1831 when the agent records the presence of both Sioux and Chippewas see the diary under date
of January 31, March 5, May 2, June 15.

[337] Taliaferro to Clark, July 6, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832, p. 231.

[338] Speech of Taliaferro to the Sioux.--Taliaferro's Diary, February 19, 1831.

[339] Report of J. N. Nicollet in Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 28th Congress, Vol. II,
Document No. 52, p. 66.

[340] Taliaferro's Diary, January 10, 18, 26, 1831.

[341] Taliaferro to Clark, February 8, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832,
p. 121. The treaty was signed on August 19, 1825.

[343] Missionary Herald, Vol. XXX, p. 223, June, 1834. Reverend W. T. Boutwell accompanied
Mr. Schoolcraft on this journey, and his account of it is published in the religious paper.

[344] Schoolcraft's Narrative of an Expedition through the Upper Mississippi to Itasca Lake,
p. 265.

[345] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IV, p. 684.

[346] Taliaferro to William Clark, May 31, 1835.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. III, No. 234.

[347] Taliaferro to Herring, July 16, 1835.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. III, No. 238.

[348] Taliaferro to William Clark, September 2, 1835; Taliaferro to E. Herring, September 20,
1835.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. III, Nos. 251, 252.

[349] Taliaferro to William Clark, May 26, 1831.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832,
p. 195.

[350] Taliaferro's Diary, January 25, 1831.

[351] Senate Documents, 1st Session, 28th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, p. 269.

[352] Senate Documents, 1st Session, 29th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, p. 490.

[353] The Minnesota Pioneer, January 2, 1851.

[355] The Minnesota Pioneer, May 16, 1850. Other occasions when Indians were imprisoned for
similar causes are mentioned in The Minnesota Pioneer, September 23, 1852, April 20, 1854.

[356] The Minnesota Pioneer, October 14, 1852.

[357] Report of Agent A. J. Bruce, September 1, 1846.--Executive Documents, 2nd Session, 29th
Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 4, p. 246.

[358] Beltrami's A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, Vol. II, pp. 233, 234.

[359] Taliaferro's Diary, January 31, 1831; Taliaferro to Captain W. R. Lovett, June 30, 1831,
in Taliaferro Letters, Vol. II, No. 150.

[360] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, p. 138.

[361] Taliaferro to Clark, October 4, 1830.--William Clark Papers, Correspondence, 1830-1832,
p. 68.

[362] Taliaferro's Diary, June 29, 1834. XX, pp. xiii-xviii.

[364] This account of the fur trade is based upon the reminiscences of Mr. H. H. Sibley in
the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. IX, pp. 601-607.

[365] If an Indian failed continually in paying up his credits, the trader would refuse him
any more goods. This would bring on the enmity of the hunter and his whole family. Such was
the case of Joseph R. Brown mentioned in the Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, p. 247.

[366] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. II, pp. 139-146, Vol. III, pp. 332, 333, Vol. IV,
pp. 729-735.

[367] A copy of an American trading license is published in the Report from the Select Committee
on the Hudson's Bay Company, p. 282.

[368] Indian Office Files, 1831, No. 70.

[369] Indian Office Files, 1831, No. 82.

[371] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XX, p. 43

[372] Sibley to Featherstonhaugh.--Sibley Papers. This letter is printed in Holcombe's Minnesota
in Three Centuries, Vol. II, p. 57.

[373] Chittenden's The History of the American Fur Trade of the Far West, Vol. I, p. 323.

[374] A list of the posts in the agency in 1826 is given in the Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. II, pp. 113, 114.

"The Secretary of War directs that the traders in the St Peters Agency, who have been directed
by you to build their houses in a particular form, as designated by you, be informed that they
are at liberty to adapt the shape of their building to their own convenience. He moreover directs
that the term of Forts, by which they are designated, be changed into Posts."--William Clark
to Taliaferro, March 26, 1827, in Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 72.

[375] Taliaferro to Herring, September 15, 1834, in Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 210; Taliaferro
Letters, Vol. I, No. 74.

[376] See Sibley's story of a tea party given to a number of traders at Fort Snelling.--Minnesota
Historical Collections, Vol. III, pp. 248, 249.

[377] Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike, Vol. I, p. 230.

[378] Taliaferro's Diary, February 22, 1831.

[379] Schoolcraft's Narrative of an Expedition through the Upper Mississippi to Itasca Lake, p. 44.

[380] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XX, pp. 306, 307.

[381] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. IV, p. 564.

[382] Norman W. Kittson to Sibley, March 2, 1846.--Sibley Papers, 1840-1850. Mr. Kittson was
the manager of the American Fur Company's business along the international boundary, with his
headquarters at Pembina. He, with the late James J. Hill, was one of the promoters of the St.
Paul, Minneapolis, and Manitoba Railroad Company.

[383] Report from the Select Committee on the Hudson's Bay Company, p. 370.

[384] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XX, p. 383.

[385] Taliaferro's Diary, January 30, 1831.

[386] Kittson to Sibley, August 7, 1846.--Sibley Papers, 1840-1850.

Mr. Kittson was the organizer of the picturesque caravans of Red River carts (at one time called
"Kittson's carts") which carried on the extensive commerce between the Canadian and American
settlements. At an early date this trade assumed large proportions. "The van of the Red River
train numbering from an hundred to two hundred carts made entirely of wood and green hides
and drawn by oxen and ponies in harness, reached St. Paul on Sunday with furs, hides, buffalo
robes, dried buffalo tongues, pemmican, etc. They have been forty days on the route."--The
Minnesota Pioneer, July 26, 1849.

[387] Missionary Herald, Vol. 38, p. 58, February, 1842.

[388] Indian Office Files, 1839, No. 62.

[389] Missionary Herald, Vol. 40, p. 281, August, 1844.

[391] Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. XX, p. 383.

[392] Taliaferro's Diary, July 23, 1834.

[393] Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 74.

[394] Marsh to Street, April 28, 1832.--Street Papers, No. 20.

[395] Indian Office Files, 1835, No. 326.

[396] Bailly to Street, August 3, 1832.--Street Papers, No. 28.

[397] Street to Cass, October 3, 1832.--Street Papers, No. 69.

[398] "Several persons have been arrested near Crow Wing for selling whiskey to the Winnebago
Indians; and twelve or fifteen barrels of whiskey have been overtaken and knocked in the head,
by Capt. Monroe's troops."--The Minnesota Pioneer, August 9, 1849.

[401] Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 140.

[402] Taliaferro to Clark, August 2, 1829.--Indian Office Files, 1829, No. 65.

[405] The Minnesota Pioneer, May 12, 1849.

CHAPTER X

[406] Taliaferro writes: "It was some length of time before he could induce the Indians to
respect the Sabbath-day--all days being alike to them. It so happened that hundreds of important
peace conventions were made and confirmed by the hostile tribes on the Lord's day.

[407] Missionary Herald, Vol. 45, p. 429, December, 1849.

[408] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XII, pp. 326, 327; Taliaferro's Diary, August
14, 1833.

[409] Street to Taliaferro, August 12, 1829.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. II, No. 108.

[410] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 119-121.

[411] Taliaferro to Eaton.--Indian Office Files, 1830, No. 151.

[412] Taliaferro's Diary, April 18, May 1, June 8, 1831.

[413] Taliaferro's Diary, August 14, 1833.

[414] Taliaferro's Diary, April 18, 1831.

[415] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, p. iv.

[417] Senate Documents, 3rd Session, 25th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, p. 523.

[418] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 12-30. This volume, written
by the son of Samuel Pond, tells of the work of his father and uncle.

[419] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, p. 30. Among the Kemper Papers (Vol.
XX, No. 34) the writer found the following permit to enter the Indian country:

"The Right Reverend, Jackson Kemper, Missionary Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church,
having signified to this Department, his desire to visit and remain sometime in the Indian
country, and requested the permission required by law to enable him to do so, such permission
is hereby granted; and he is commended to the friendly attention of civil and military officers
and agents, and of citizens, and if at any time it shall be necessary to their protection.

  Given under my hand and
  the Seal of the War Department
  this 1st day of October 1838.

  S. Cooper.
  Acting Secretary of War."

[420] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 31, 32; Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. XII, pp. 324, 325.

[421] Taliaferro's Diary, July 7, 1834.

[422] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 38-42.

[423] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, p. 47.

[424] Featherstonhaugh's A Canoe Voyage up the Minnay Sotor, Vol. II, p. 11.

[425] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, p. 43.

[426] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, pp. 127-146.

[427] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 127, 133.

[429] Riggs's Mary and I, Forty Years with the Sioux, pp. 41, 42.

[430] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 49-59.

[433] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 343.

[434] Pond's Two Volunteer Missionaries among the Dakotas, pp. 63, 64.

[435] Missionary Herald, Vol. 41, p. 281, August, 1845; Vol. 32, pp. 188, 189, May, 1836.

[436] The Spirit of Missions, Vol. IV, p. 61, February, 1839; Tanner's History of the Diocese
of Minnesota, p. 24; Post Returns, April, 1839, in the archives of the War Department, Washington,
D. C.

[437] Gear to Kemper, Nov. 29, 1841.--Kemper Letters, Vol. 25, No. 103. See also The Spirit
of Missions, Vol. 5, p. 68, March, 1840.

[438] Acta et Dicta, Vol. I, No. 1, July, 1907, pp. 14-21; Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. III, pp. 222-230. II, p. 592.

[440] Merrick's Old Times on the Upper Mississippi, p. 187. The following description was given
by Philander Prescott, a fur trader:

"The Indians say they had dreamed of seeing some monster of the deep the night before, which
frightened them very much. It appears they did not discover the boat until it had got into
the mouth of the St. Peter's, below Mr. Sibley's. They stood and gazed with astonishment at
what they saw approaching, taking the boat to be some angry god of the water, coughing and
spouting water upwards, sideways and forward. They had not courage enough to stand until the
boat came near them. The women and children took to the woods, with their hair floating behind
them in the breeze, from the speed they were going, in running from supposed danger. Some of
the men had a little more courage, and only moved off to a short distance from the shore, and
the boat passed along and landed. Everything being quiet for a moment, the Indians came up
to the boat again, and stood looking at the monster of the deep. All at once the boat began
to blow off steam, and the bravest warriors could not stand this awful roaring, but took to
the woods, men, women and children, with their blankets flying in the wind; some tumbling in
the brush which entangled their feet as they ran away--some hallooing, some crying, to the
great amusement of the people on board the steamboat."--Quoted in the Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. III, p. 104, note 1.

[441] Beltrami's A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, Vol. II, p. 199.

[442] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 191-193.

[443] Beltrami published an account of his travels in French in New Orleans in 1824. The English
version is entitled A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, leading to the Discovery of the Sources
of the Mississippi and Bloody River, and was published in London in two volumes in 1828. It
is composed of twenty-two letters addressed to "My Dear Countess" and dedicated "to the Fair Sex".

[444] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI, p. 101.

[445] The story of this exploration was published under the title of Narrative of an Expedition
to the Source of St. Peter's River, Lake Winnepeek, Lake of the Woods, Etc. performed in the
year 1823, by order of the Hon. J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, under the command of Stephen
H. Long, U. S. T. E. It was written by Professor Keating from the notes of the party. An English
edition appeared in London in 1825. The references given are to this publication.

[446] J. C. Calhoun to Major Long.--Taliaferro Letters, Vol. I, No. 41. I, p. 324, Vol. II,
p. 112. I, p. 356.

[451] Beltrami's A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, Vol. II, p. 414.

[452] "My head was covered with the bark of a tree, formed into the shape of a hat and sewed
with threads of bark; and shoes, a coat, and pantaloons, such as are used by Canadians in the
Indian territories, and formed of original skins sewed together by thread made of the muscles
of that animal, completed the grotesque appearance of my person."--Beltrami's A Pilgrimage
in Europe and America, Vol. II, p. 481. For a short summary of Beltrami's work see the Minnesota
Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 183-196. II, p. 200.

[454] Catlin's North American Indians, Vol. II, pp. 599-602.

[455] Catlin's North American Indians, Vol. II, pp. 602-607. This quotation is from page 607.

[456] Senate Documents, 1st Session, 24th Congress, Vol. IV, Document No. 333.

[457] Featherstonhaugh's A Canoe Voyage up the Minnay Sotor, Vol. I, p. 262.

[459] Featherstonhaugh's A Canoe Voyage up the Minnay Sotor, Vol. I, pp. 261, 266, 288.

[460] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. I, pp. 187, 188.

[462] Brower's The Mississippi River and its Source which comprises Vol. VII of the Minnesota
Historical Collections. See p. 162. I, p. 189.

[464] In his reminiscences John C. Frémont has left a very interesting account of these two
expeditions.--Frémont's Memoirs of My Life, Vol. I, pp. 30-54.

[465] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. I, p. 183.

[466] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 129, 133, 134.

[467] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), pp. 914, 915.

[468] North Western Gazette and Galena Advertiser, June 26, 1840.

[469] North Western Gazette and Galena Advertiser, June 5, 1840.

[470] Louisville Journal quoted in the North Western Gazette and Galena Advertiser, June 14, 1838.

[471] Jackson Kemper was appointed missionary bishop of the Northwest in 1835 and held the
position until 1859 when he accepted the bishopric of Wisconsin. His papers and diaries are
in the archives of the Wisconsin Historical Society. For an account of his work see Tiffany's
A History of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States, pp. 448, 493.

[472] Kemper Papers, Vol. XXVII, No. 113.

[473] Kemper Papers, Vol. XXVII, No. 116.

CHAPTER XII

[474] Journals of Congress, Vol. III, p. 589.

[475] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. I, p. 138.

[476] United States Statutes at Large, Vol. XVI, p. 566.

[477] Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1890, p. xxix.

[478] These figures are taken from an account of the proceedings of the council published in
Niles' Register, Vol. XXIX, pp. 187-192.

[480] These are the reasons given by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in his report on December
1, 1837.--Senate Documents, 2nd Session, 25th Congress, Vol. I, Document No. 1, pp. 526, 527.

[481] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 129.

[482] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 131; Vol. VI, p. 214.

[483] For an account of the life of Flat Mouth see Coues's The Expeditions of Zebulon M. Pike,
Vol. I, p. 169, note 10.

[484] Sketches of the life of Hole-in-the-Day are given in The Spirit of Missions, Vol. VIII,
p. 461, December, 1843; North Western Gazette and Galena Advertiser, August 3, 1839; Prairie
du Chien Patriot, June 8, 1847.

[485] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. V, p. 353.

[486] The names of the witnesses of the treaty are given in Kappler's Indian Affairs, Laws
and Treaties, Vol. II, p. 493.

[487] A contemporary account of the proceedings of the council published in the Iowa News (Dubuque),
Vol. I, Nos. 11 and 14, is reprinted in The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX,
pp. 408-433.

[488] The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX, p. 420.

[489] Dodge to Harris, July 30, 1837.--Indian Office Files, 1837, No. 226. The Indians desired
whiskey at the councils. In order to prove that it was not refused because of stinginess, two
barrels were opened at Prairie du Chien and the whiskey allowed to run on the ground. The old
Indian Wakh-pa-koo-tay mourned the loss: "It was a great pity, there was enough wasted to have
kept me drunk all the days of my life."--Wisconsin Historical Collections, Vol. V, p. 124.

[491] The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX, pp. 409, 410.

[492] The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX, pp. 424-426.

[493] The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX, pp. 416, 417.

[494] The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. IX, pp. 431, 432.

[496] Niles' Register, Vol.

[497] See an account of the payment in 1849 at Fort Snelling in The Minnesota Pioneer, September
27, 1849.

[500] Beltrami's A Pilgrimage in Europe and America, Vol. II, p. 202.

[501] Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), p. 453; Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. I, p. 468.

[502] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. III, p. 319.

[504] Much has been written on the founding of this colony and the romantic events connected
with the struggle between the Hudson's Bay Company and the North West Company, in which many
of the colonists were the innocent victims. Interesting accounts are given in Kingsford's The
History of Canada, Vol. IX, pp. 108-150; Bryce's The Remarkable History of the Hudson's Bay
Company, pp. 202-257; Bryce's Lord Selkirk in The Makers of Canada, Vol. V, pp. 115-206; Laut's
The Conquest of the Great Northwest, pp. 113-202; Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. VI,
pp. 75-89.

[505] There is a summary of the early trading relations of the Red River Colony with the American
settlements in the Collections of the State Historical Society of North Dakota, Vol. IV, pp.
251, 252. The arrival of these people at Fort Snelling is noted in the Minnesota Historical
Collections, Vol. II, pp. 124, 127; VI, p. 350.

[507] The facts concerning the migrations of these Red River refugees are taken from the reminiscences
of Mrs. Ann Adams who was herself one of the travellers.--Minnesota Historical Collections,
Vol. VI, pp. 75-95. See also Chetlain's The Red River Colony. This is a small pamphlet written
by the son of one of the refugees.

[508] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XIV, p. 84.

[509] Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul, pp. 70, 71.

[511] Renville to Sibley, February 22, 1835.--Sibley Papers, 1830-1840. A story is told of
a certain "Simple-hearted, honest fellow" named Sinclair. "One time he was sick, at Mendota,
and Surgeon Emerson, at the fort, sent by some one, a box of pills, for him to take a dose
from. N. W. Kittson called on him a little while after this, and found that Sinclair had not
only swallowed all the pills, but was then chewing up the box!"--Williams's A History of the
City of Saint Paul, p. 123.

[512] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, pp. 127, 129.

[514] Taliaferro's Diary, July 13, 14, 1834; Indian Office Files, 1834, No. 239.

[515] Taliaferro's Diary, July 21, 1834.

[516] Indian Office Files, 1837, Nos. 448, 447, 445.

[521] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. II, p. 136; Williams's A History of the City of
Saint Paul, pp. 66, 67.

[524] The Spirit of Missions, Vol. V, p. 335, November, 1840. A recent sketch of Fort Snelling
states that there were "no white neighbors except traders, agents of fur companies, refugees
from civilization and disreputable hangers-on."--Hammond's Quaint and Historic Forts of North
America, p. 272. Many of the evicted settlers can not be classed among these.

[525] This order is published in Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul, p. 94.

[526] For the expulsion of the settlers see Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul,
pp. 99, 100; also, Neill's The History of Minnesota (Fourth Edition), p. 459. Williams (p.
100) says that in 1849 and 1852 memorials were presented to Congress by those who had been
expelled, in which they stated that "the soldiery fell upon them without warning, treated them
with unjustifiable rudeness, broke and destroyed furniture wantonly, insulted the women, and,
in one or two instances, fired at and killed cattle."

Father Galtier, who was there at the time, wrote: "Consequently a deputy marshall from Prairie
du Chien was ordered to remove the houses. He went to work, assisted by some soldiers, and,
one after another, unroofed the cottages, extending about five miles along the river. The settlers
were forced to seek new homes." He makes no mention of personal violence.--Acta et Dicta, Vol.
I, No. 1, p. 64.

[527] Williams's A History of the City of Saint Paul, p. 111.

[528] See the description of St. Paul in 1849 in Seymour's Sketches of Minnesota, the New England
of the West, pp. 94-100.

[529] The Minnesota Pioneer, January 30, 1850.

[530] The Minnesota Pioneer, January 23, February 27, June 27, 1850.

[531] The Minnesota Pioneer, November 27, 1851.

[532] The Minnesota Pioneer, April 17, 1851.

[533] Minnesota Historical Collections, Vol. XV, p. 534; Post Returns, July, 1855, in the archives
of the War Department, Washington, D. C.

[534] The Minnesota Pioneer, February 20, 27, 1850.

[535] The Minnesota Pioneer, February 6, 13, 1850; Minnesota Chronicle and Register, February
10, 1851.

[536] The Minnesota Pioneer, February 13, 1850.

[537] Bishop's Floral Home; or, First Years of Minnesota, pp. 152-163.

[538] The Minnesota Pioneer, August 23, 1849.

INDEX

  Abercrombie, John J., fort built by, 50
  Adams, Mrs. Ann, 245
  Agency house, fire in, 101
  Agriculture (see Farming)
  Aitkin, Mr., 144
  Akin, Mr., information furnished by, 172
  Alcohol, purchase of, 88
  American Fur Company,
    fort purchased from, 21;
    warehouse and store of, 81;
    monopoly of, 135;
    reference to, 138, 142, 188, 209
  Americans, hostility of Indians to,
    during War of 1812, 8-12;
    Indians impressed by supremacy of, 112-118;
    protection promised by, 122
  Ammunition, giving of, to Indians, 110
  Andrews, Joseph F., 230
  Annuities, 42, 43, 111, 126;
    payment of, to Indians, 184, 185
  Apple River, massacre on, 132, 232
  Apples, purchase of, 88
  Ardourly, Jack, 100
  Armorer's shop, 77, 78, 79
  Articles of Confederation, 176
  Assiniboine River, 5
  Astor, John Jacob, 135, 209
  Atkinson, Henry, fort named in honor of, 30;
    reference to, 34
  Aunt Phyllis's Cabin, 62

  Badger, The, murder of, 127
  Bailly, Alexis, 99, 188;
    disagreement between Taliaferro and, 138, 139;
    whiskey in store of, 142, 143
  Baker, Benjamin, trading house of, 78, 79, 125, 192
  Ball-plays, 101;
    holding of, for Catlin, 164
  Balls, music for, 197
  Band, fund for maintenance of, 87;
    music by, 197
  Barracks,
    building of, 25;
    reference to, 73;
    description of, 74, 75;
    taking of sick soldiers from, 85
  Bean, J. L., boundary line surveyed by, 130, 131
  Bear, hunting of, 105
  Bear dance, 164
  Bedford (Pennsylvania), 71
  Beef, 85;
    ration of, 109
  Beggars' dance, 164
  Belen Gate of City of Mexico, 64
  Beltrami, J. C.,
    description of council by, 106, 107;
    reference to, 133, 187;
    visit of, to Fort Snelling, 160-163
  Bennington (Vermont), 61
  Benton, Thomas H., 107
  Berries, gathering of, 105
  Big Eagle, 83
  Big Stone Lake, 103
  Big Thunder, 83;
    desire of, to raise corn, 152
  Birthplace of soldiers, 92
  Black Dog, village of, 83
  Black Hawk War, position of Fort Snelling during, 35
  Black Hole, confinement of offenders in, 91, 132
  Black River, 36, 184
  Blacksmith shop, 118
  Blacksmiths, work of, 78, 155
  Blankets, giving of, to Indians, 110;
    reference to, 136
  Bliss, John H., 68, 114, 151, 153;
    punishment inflicted by, 90, 91;
    statement by, 99, 100
  Bliss, Mrs. John H., 153
  Blockhouses, 74
  Blue Earth River, Winnebago reservation on, 37;
    reference to, 162

  Boarding-school, success of, among Indians, 156
  Boatmen, foreigners as, 138
  Bois brulés,
    difficulties with, 37-40;
    location of, around fort, 188, 189
  Books, fund for purchase of, 87
  Boonesborough (Kentucky), 201
  Boston, 56, 145
  Bougainville, Louis Antoine, report of, 205
  Boundary line of 1825, 130, 131, 178, 184
  Brandy, 86
  Braves, desire of, to take part in council, 181
  "Brazil" (steamboat), 168, 169
  Bread, character of, 86
  Bread tickets, 88
  Breakfast, 85
  Brewers, 92
  Briggs, Ansel, 41
  Brock, General, 8
  Brooke, George M., site for fort chosen by, 48
  Broom, purchase of, 88
  Brown, Joseph R., 190, 191
  Brown, Private, purchases by, 88
  Brown's Falls, 81
  Bruce, Amos J., 71
  Brunson, Alfred, work of, among Indians, 154
  Brunson, Ira B., 195
  Buchanan County (Iowa), 41
  Buck, Solon J., acknowledgments to, ix
  Buffalo, hunting of, by half-breeds, 37, 38, 40
  Buffalo dance, 164
  "Burlington" (steamboat), 168
  Butter, purchase of, 88

  Calhoun, John C., 19, 224
  California, emigration to, 43
  Camp Cold Water,
    establishment of, 27;
    reference to, 58, 110, 189, 190, 212
  Camp Missouri, sickness at, 213
  Camp Pierce, 46
  Campbell, Duncan, 131
  Campbell, Scott, service of, as interpreter, 71, 72
  Canada, 3, 8, 57, 92, 158;
    taking of furs to, 6;
    importance of fur trade to, 9;
    visits of Indians to, 37, 106;
    difficulties with half-breeds from, 37-40;
    export of furs from, 207
  Canal, 20
  Canby, Edward R. S., sketch of life of, 63-65
  Candles, 86
  Candy, purchase of, 88
  Canister shot, 77
  Cannon, description of, 77
  Cannon River, 137
  Canoes, 199
  Cantonment Leavenworth, establishment of, 56
  Cantonment New Hope, establishment of, 25;
    removal of troops from, 27;
    reference to, 55
  Cards, playing of, 99
  Carpenters, employment of soldiers as, 96
  Cartridges, stock of, 77
  Carver, Jonathan, exploration by, 1;
    statement by, 1, 2;
    reference to, 198
  Cass, Lewis, visit of, at Fort Snelling, 28;
    reference to, 137, 140, 178;
    expedition of, 212
  Cat'o'nine tails, 90
  Catholic chapel, 81
  Catholics, religious work among, 158
  Catlin, George, visit of, at Fort Snelling, 163, 164
  Catlin, Mrs. George, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 163, 164
  Cattle, feeding of, 82, 96
  Cellars, 75
  Cemetery, 81, 89, 93
  Certificates, giving of, to Indians, 113, 114
  Chambers, John, 182
  Chapel, 81, 195
  Chaplain, 88, 101, 194, 195;
    service of Gear as, 157
  Chatel, Mr., work of, 155, 156
  Checkers, playing of, 99

  Cheese, purchase of, 88
  Cherokee Indians, removal of, 63, 64
  Cherubusco, Battle of, 64
  Chess, playing of, 99
  Chicago, 161
  Chiefs, giving of certificates to, 113, 114;
    visit of, to Washington, 115, 116;
    council with, 181
  Children, education of, at fort, 100, 101
  Chippewa, Battle of, 55
  Chippewa Indians,
    early traders among, 3;
    reference to, 7, 48, 104, 108, 139, 142, 144,
            163, 177, 178, 228, 231, 242;
    unwillingness of, to make treaty, 13;
    treaty between Sioux and, 28;
    treaty with, 45, 176-186;
    land ceded by, 47, 48;
    home of, 103;
    war parties against, 106;
    hostility of, 114;
    feuds between Sioux and, 119-134;
    killing of, by Sioux, 121, 125;
    murderers killed by, 122-124;
    murder of Sioux warrior by, 127;
    battle between Sioux and, 127, 128, 232;
    boundary line between Sioux and, 130, 131, 178;
    trustworthiness of, 134;
    language of, 172, 173, 174;
    summoning of, to council, 179
  Chippewa River, 131, 172;
    murder of Sioux on, 232
  Choctaw Indians, removal of, 63, 64
  Chouteau, Auguste, activities of, as commissioner, 12, 13
  Christianity, influence of, 146;
    method of preaching, 150, 151
  Church, organization of, at Fort Snelling, 157;
    attendance at, 194, 195
  Churns, 76
  Civil War,
    use of Fort Snelling during, 52;
    service of Eastman in, 62;
    reference to, 63, 201;
    service of Canby in, 64
  Clark, Charlotte Ouisconsin, 23, 212
  Clark, Dan E., acknowledgments to, x
  Clark, Nathan, 21
  Clark, Mrs. Nathan, 23
  Clark, William, expedition under, 4, 5;
    Fort Shelby established by, 11;
    activities of, as commissioner, 12, 13;
    reference to, 69, 70, 114, 178, 221, 228
  Clarke, Colonel, 44
  Clerks, 136
  Cloud Man,
    resolution of, to become farmer, 148;
    reference to, 153
  Cloves, purchase of, 88
  Coe, Alvan, coming of, to Fort Snelling, 149
  Coffee, 86
  Colhoun, James E., 161, 162
  Colors, guarding of, 85
  Columbia, Department of, 65
  Columbia Fur Company, 138
  Columbia River, 5
  Commanders of Fort Snelling,
    influence of, 54;
    sketches of lives of, 54-65
  Commanding officer, quarters of, 75
  Commerce, extent of, 205
  Commissary, office of, 75
  Commissary department, storehouse of, 75
  Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
    report of, 37;
    reference to, 67, 177
  Confederation, forming of, among Indians, 13
  Congress, right of,
    to regulate Indian affairs, 176;
    memorials to, 246
  Connecticut, 1
  Contreras, Battle of, 64
  Coon, story about Scott and, 60, 61
  Cooper, S., 238
  Coöperation in fur trade, 135
  Copper, mining of, 25; block of, 175
  Corn, feeding of, to cattle, 82;
    raising of, by Indians, 105;
    giving of, to Indians, 110
  Council, holding of, with Indians, 35, 36, 43, 106-109, 129, 179-183
  Council Bluff (Nebraska),
    fort at, 20;
    route of road to Fort Snelling from, 28, 29;
    naming of fort at, 30;
    reference to, 160;
    sickness at, 213
  Council Hall, description of, 106, 107
  Council House, erection of, 28;

    description of, 77;
    burning of, 77, 78;
    rebuilding of, 78
  Coureurs des bois, activities of, 3
  Court-martial, 102
  Crane, The, 129, 228
  Crawford, Captain, 159
  Crawford County (Wisconsin) volunteers from, 35
  Credit, fur trade carried on by means of, 136
  Creek Indians, removal of, 63, 64
  Croghan, George, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 100
  Cross Timbers (Indian Territory), 56
  Crow Wing, 236
  Crow Wing River, 47
  Currants, purchase of, 88

  Dahcotah: or, Life and Legends of the Sioux around Fort Snelling,
            62
  Dana, Captain, 49
  Dance of the braves, 164
  Dances, holding of, by Indians, 164
  Dakota, Department of, 52
  Dakota Indians (see Sioux Indians)
  Dearborn, Major, 110
  Deaths, number of, at Fort Snelling, 93
  Debts, payment of, to traders, 183, 184
  De Courcy, Adolphine, 100
  Deer, hunting of, 105
  Delaware County (New York), 55
  Delhi (New York), 56
  Democrats, charges of graft against, 51
  Denny, St. Clair, 161
  Des Moines River, 18, 44
  Deserters, dangers faced by, 92
  Desertions, causes of, 91;
    prevalence of, 91, 92
  Details, duties of, 85
  Detroit, 11, 19;
    departure of troops from, 21;
    surrender of, 57
  Devil's Lake, 40
  Dickson, Robert, activities of, in behalf of English, 11;
    reference to, 13, 16, 134;
    instructions to, 208
  Diet, description of, 85
  Dinner, 85
  Dixon, Private, desertion of, 92
  Dodge, Henry, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 168;
    council of, with Indians, 180-183
  Dog dance, 164
  Dominoes, playing of, 99
  Doty, James D., 212
  Douglas, Thomas, settlement of, 188, 189
  Draft riots, 64
  Dragoons, expedition of, 38, 39, 45, 216;
    activities of, in Iowa, 44, 45;
    service of, on survey, 46, 47;
    reference to, 48, 56, 63, 186, 217;
    frontier service of, 49;
    arrival of, 215
  Dress parade, 85
  Drummond Island, visits of Indians to, 13, 14
  Drunkenness, prevalence of, in garrison, 89, 90, 194;
    punishment for, 90
  Dubuque, 43, 158, 216
  Dubuque, Diocese of, 158
  Ducks, 96, 97
  Dueling, 102
  Duluth, Daniel Greyloson, 3
  Dunning, William A., 215

  Eagle dance, 164
  Eastman, Mary Henderson, writings of, 62
  Eastman, Seth, 35, 99, 145;
    sketch of life of, 62
  Eastman, Mrs. Seth, description by, 94
  Eaton, John H., 149
  Eatonville (Minnesota), colony at, 118, 149;
    success of colony at, 150;
    Pond brothers in charge of, 152
  Education, work of, among Indians, 156
  "Education Families", 103
  Education of children, 100, 101
  Edwards, Ninian, activities of, as commissioner, 12, 13
  Eighth United States Infantry, 18

  Elk, hunting of, 105
  Emerson, John, sketch of life of, 65, 66;
    reference to, 194, 245
  Emerson, Mrs. John, 66
  Emigration, 14, 15
  England, 70
  English, rule of, in West, 2, 3;
    activities of, in fur trade, 3, 4, 140;
    power of, over Indians, 5-17;
    support of, by Indians in War of 1812, 8-12;
    medals given by, 112;
    persistence of influence of, 114, 115;
    use of Indians by, 208
  English River, 42
  English trading companies, 2
  Episcopal Church, 169
  Evans, William, 190
  Exploring expeditions, 109

  Factors, 136;
    relations of, with officers of fort, 138, 139
  Factory System, 107
  Fall, activities of Indians during, 105, 106
  Falls of St. Anthony, 7, 24, 29, 30, 86, 96, 149, 153, 198, 207;
    journey of Long to, 19;
    plan to establish fort near, 20;
    saw mill at, 27, 28;
    fort named for, 29;
    road to, 81;
    description of, 81, 173, 174;
    legend concerning, 81, 82;
    visits of travelers to, 159-175;
    attempt to cross, 161, 162
  Falstrom, Jacob, 191
  Faribault, Jean Baptiste, house of, 80;
    reference to, 137, 141, 222;
    trading post of, 187, 188
  Faribault, Pelagi, 187
  Farmers, 92;
    employment of soldiers as, 95;
    work of, among Indians, 155, 156
  Farming, efforts to introduce, among Indians, 148-150;
    work of Indians at, 150;
    assistance to Indians in, 152, 153;
    instruction of Indians in, 155
  "Fashionable Tour", 159-175
  Fat Duty Win (Indian), 156
  "Fayette" (steamboat), 169
  Fayette County (Iowa), 41
  Featherstonhaugh, George William, visit of, to Fort Snelling,
            153, 165, 166
  Ferries, 14
  Ferry house, 81
  Ferryman, 81
  Fifth United States Infantry, disembarkment of, 2;
    orders to, 19, 20;
    location of parts of, 21:
    journey of, to mouth of Minnesota River, 21-24;
    companies of, taken to Fort Crawford, 32;
    reference to, 55, 58, 59, 62, 187
  Finley, Mr., home of, 81
  Fireplaces, heating by means of, 99
  Fires, epidemic of, 101
  First United States Infantry, 58, 59, 62
  Fishing tackle, purchase of, 88
  Flag staff, 75
  Flags, giving up of, by Indians, 6;
    reference to, 112;
    slur against, 145
  Flat Mouth, 120;
    career of, 179
  Flatboats, 14, 86, 199
  Flogging, 90
  Florida War, service of Eastman in, 62;
    service of Canby in, 63
  Flour, 86
  Food, character of, 26, 85-87
  Folles-Avoine Indians, 205
  Fond du Lac, Department of, 6
  Foraging, 85, 96
  Foreigners, permission to, to engage in fur trade, 138
  Forests, 178
  Forsyth, Thomas, journey of, up Mississippi, 22;
    presents distributed by, 23;
    arrival of, at mouth of Minnesota River, 24;
    return trip of, 24;
    reference to, 211, 228
  Fort Abercrombie, facts concerning early history of, 49, 50
  Fort Armstrong, construction of, 18;
    reference to, 20;
    garrison for, 22;
    journey of Webb to, 117
  Fort Atkinson (Iowa), dragoons from, 35;
    expedition from, 38;
    Major Woods at, 41

  Fort Atkinson (Nebraska), naming of, 30;
    sickness at, 93
  Fort Benton, 46
  Fort Bridger, 64
  Fort Calhoun (Nebraska), 20
  Fort Clarke, establishment of, 44, 45
  Fort Crawford, establishment of, 18;
    reference to, 20, 23, 59, 157, 161;
    arrival of troops at, 22;
    reënforcement of garrison of, 32, 34;
    removal of troops from, 33
  Fort Dearborn, massacre at, 10, 11, 208;
    reference to, 18, 117;
    re-occupation of, 18
  Fort Defiance, 64
  Fort Des Moines, 44
  Fort Dodge, establishment of, 44, 45;
    reference to, 49
  Fort Erie, 57
  Fort Gaines, 43, 48
  Fort Garry, 40, 188
  Fort Howard, erection of, 19;
    reference to, 21, 211
  Fort Leavenworth, establishment of, 56
  Fort McKay, name of Fort Shelby changed to, 12;
    re-occupation of site of, 18
  Fort Pierre, purchase of, 21;
    reference to, 167
  Fort Ridgely, 49, 186
  Fort Ripley, 48
  Fort St. Anthony, 29
  Fort Shelby, establishment of, 11, 12;
    capture of, by English, 12
  Fort Snelling, significance of establishment of, 2;
    establishment and early history of, 18-30;
    range of influence of, 21;
    erection of, 27, 28;
    garden at, 28;
    route of road to, 28, 29;
    naming of, 29, 30;
    service of, in protection of frontier, 31-53;
    attitude of War Department toward, 31;
    Territorial jurisdictions over site of, 32;
    activities of troops at, during Winnebago outbreak, 32-34;
    character and duties of garrison of, 34, 35;
    service of troops from, in removal of Winnebagoes, 35-37;
    expeditions from, 39-45;
    surveying party escorted by dragoons from, 46, 47;
    relation of, to other forts, 47;
    fort built by troops from, 48, 49, 50;
    history of later years of, 50-53;
    desire to locate town on site of, 50-52;
    officers' training camp at, 53;
    biographical sketches of men connected with, 54-72;
    Dred Scott at, 66;
    service of Indian agent at, 66-72;
    description of, 73-83;
    view from, 79, 80;
    glimpses of garrison life at, 84-102;
    relation of, to Indian affairs, 103-118;
    efforts of authorities at, to keep peace between Sioux and Chippewas,
            119-134;
    regulation of fur trade by officers at, 135-139;
    regulation of liquor traffic by officers at, 139-145;
    work of missionaries at, 146-158;
    religious activities at, 156-158;
    visits of travelers to, 159-175, 198;
    Indian treaty made at, 176-186;
    part of, in opening country to settlement, 184, 185;
    part of, in settlement of West, 187-201;
    settlements around, 187-190;
    removal of settlers from vicinity of, 192-195;
    relations between St. Paul and, 196-198;
    withdrawal of troops from, 199;
    unique facts concerning, 201;
    arrival of troops at, 212, 215;
    oil painting of, 223;
    effect of, on Indian affairs, 231, 232
  Fort Sumter, 201
  Fort Ticonderoga, 201
  Fort Union, 46
  Fort William, 9
  Fort York, 189
  Forts, resistance to building of, 13;
    location of, 18;
    building of, 18-20, 47;
    reference to, 136;
    degeneration of Indians in vicinity of, 147
  "Four Hearts", 68
  Four Legs, attempt of, to delay troops, 21
  Fourth United States Infantry, 56
  Fowle, Major, 34, 122

  Fox Indians, rumor of attack by, 117;
    reference to, 205;
    treaty with, 208
    (see Sac and Fox Indians)
  Fox River, 19, 163;
    canal between Wisconsin River and, 20;
    ascent of, by troops, 21, 22
  France, 1, 92
  Franks, Mr., 209
  Frémont, John C., 167, 241
  French, rule of, in West, 2, 3;
    influence of, over Indians, 3;
    extent of trade during control of, 205
  French traders, 2
  Frontier, difficulties on, 15;
    plan for protection of, 19;
    service of Fort Snelling in protection of, 31-53;
    service of Taylor on, 59
  Fuel, use of wood for, 99
  Funerals, conduct of, 93
  Fur trade, 2, 3, 35;
    activities of English in, 3, 4, 5-17;
    importance of, to Canada, 9;
    regulation of, 15-17, 135-139;
    quantity of furs secured in, 137;
    use of liquor in, 139, 140;
    extent of, 205
  Fur traders (see Traders)
  Furs, taking of, to Canada, 6;
    sorting and packing of, 81;
    quantity and kind of, secured by traders, 137;
    annual export of, from Canada, 207

  Gaines, Edmund P., 227
  Gale, Captain, 131
  Galena (Illinois), 32, 151, 168, 170, 175, 190
  Galtier, Lucian, 158, 195
  Game, killing of, 42
  Garden, products of, 28;
    making of, 95, 96
  Gardiner, Captain, 46
  Gardner, Lieutenant, 216
  Garrison, life of, at Fort Snelling, 84-102
  Gear, Ezekiel, purchases made by, 88, 89;
    service of, as chaplain, 157;
    reference to, 169, 170, 173
  Geese, 96
  "General Ashley" (keel boat), 33
  "General Brooke" (steamboat), 169
  "General Fatigue", 85
  Genoa (Italy), 70
  Geological surveys, beginning of, 165
  George the Third, medals of, 112
  Gettysburg, Battle of, 63
  Ghent, negotiations at, 209
  Good Road (Chief), 83; village of, 155
  Gooding, Mrs., 23
  Gooding, Miss, 29
  Goods for Indian trade, 136
  Goose River, 40
  Gorgets, 112, 114
  Gorman, W. A., 197
  Graft, charges of, 51
  Graham's Point, 50
  Grant, Peter, trading post of, 206
  Grapeshot, 77
  Gray, A., report by, 8
  Great Britain, exploration of domain of, 1;
    diplomatic correspondence with, 140
  Great Lakes, 2, 103
  Green, Platt Rogers, marriage of, 29;
    reference to, 83
  Green Bay, 4, 21, 138;
    fort on, 19;
    fur trade at, 205
  Greenly, Mr., 43, 44
  Greenough, I. K., 101, 143
  Green's Villa, 82
  Grist mill, 82
  Grooms, Mr., 142, 151
  Groseilliers, Medard Chuart, exploration by, 3
  Guardhouse, 75
  Gull Lake, 179
  Guns, giving of, to Indians, 110

  Half-breeds, difficulties with, 37-40;
    reference to, 157, 184;
    location of, around fort, 188, 189
  Hamilton, Mrs. Alexander, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 168
  Hannibal (negro servant), 90
  Harness, 75
  Harriet (negro woman), 66
  Harriman, D. B., 232
  Harrison, William H., 57

  Harrodstown (Kentucky), 201
  Hartford (Connecticut), 21
  Hastings (Minnesota), 26
  Hay, raising of, 96
  Hays, John, 190
  Heald, Nathan, 10
  Heiskell, William King, Fort Snelling reservation sold by, 51
  Hennepin, Louis, 3
  Henry, Alexander, 206
  Herring, Elbert, 221
  Hiawatha, 62
  Higby, James, 196
  "Highland Mary", 43
  Hill, James J., 235
  Hivernants, 136
  Hole-in-the-Day, 124, 126, 129, 228, 231;
    career of, 179, 180
  Holland, 92
  Homesickness, 25
  Horses, feeding of, 85;
    raising of hay for, 96;
    exchange of, for liquor, 141
  Hospital, 75;
    taking of sick soldiers to, 85;
    number of soldiers in, 93
  Howitzers, 77
  Hudson's Bay, 189
  Hudson's Bay Company, 8, 140, 188, 206, 244
  Huggins, Alexander G., 154
  Hull, William, 10, 57;
    surrender of Detroit by, 57, 58
  Hunt, Abigail, marriage of, 57
  Hunting, skill of Scott in, 60, 61;
    success of soldiers in, 96, 97;
    activities of Indians in, 105, 106;
    reference to, 111, 188;
    efforts to supplement, by farming, 148
  Hunting grounds, 82
  Hunting parties, size of, 38;
    encounters by, 129;
    watching of, by Indian agent, 129, 130

  Illinois, admission of, 15;
    Indian outbreak in, 32-34
  Illinois River, 177
  Indian affairs, regulation of, 34, 35, 67;
    relation of Fort Snelling to, 103-118, 231
  Indian agency, buildings of, 77;
    proposed removal of, 78;
    councils with Indians at, 106-109
  Indian agent, protection for, 18;
    service of Taliaferro as, 66-71;
    relation between military authorities and, 67;
    house of, 77, 78;
    task of, 103, 104;
    visit of Indians to, 111;
    aid given to sick Indians by, 111, 112;
    efforts of, to promote peace between Sioux and Chippewas, 119-134;
    service of, as mediator, 191, 192;
    reference to, 220
  Indian ball, 101
  Indian country, preparations for march into, 93-95
  Indian dances, holding of, for Catlin, 164
  Indian schools, 118
  Indian Territory, removal of Indians to, 63, 64
  Indian Tribes of the United States, History, Conditions, and Future
            Prospects of the, 62
  Indian villages, 83
  Indiana, admission of, 15;
   reference to, 63
  Indians, influence of French traders over, 3;
    trade of English with, 4;
    power of English over, 5-17, 114, 115;
    support of British by, in War of 1812, 8-12;
    treaties with, 12, 13;
    sending of presents to, 13, 23;
    visits of, to Drummond Island, 13, 14;
    proposals for dealing with, 15;
    regulation of trade with, 15-17;
    refusal of, to supply troops with food, 26;
    relation of Fort Snelling to, 31;
    hostility of, 32-34;
    opposition of, to half-breeds, 37;
    power of agents over, 67;
    tepees of, 73;
    blacksmith work for, 78;
    legend of, concerning Falls of St. Anthony, 81, 82;
    treatment of deserters by, 92, 93;
    plan for civilization of, 103;
    number of, around Fort Snelling, 103, 104;
    character of life among, 104-106;
    councils with, at Fort Snelling, 106-109;

    effect of military display on, 108, 109;
    relief of sufferings of, 109, 110;
    visit of, to agent, 111;
    help to, in sickness, 111, 112;
    vaccination of, 112;
    evidence of power of government given to, by Fort Snelling, 112-118;
    medals and certificates given to, 113, 114;
    influence of Fort Snelling over, 116-118;
    regulation of fur trade with, 135-139;
    goods used in trade with, 136;
    efforts to suppress liquor traffic with, 139-145;
    evil effects of liquor on, 141;
    work of missionaries among, 146-158;
    degeneration among, 147;
    log village for, 149;
    work of, at farming, 150;
    assistance to, in farming, 152, 153;
    boarding-school for, 156;
    effect of religious work among, 158;
    paintings of, by Catlin, 163, 164;
    relations of United States with, 176-178;
    speeches by, 181, 182;
    disputes between settlers and, 191, 192;
    drunkenness among, 194;
    use of, by British, 208;
    plans for permanent territory for, 209;
    respect of, for Sabbath, 237;
    steamboats feared by, 239, 240
  Indigo, purchase of, 88
  Intemperance, prevalence of, in garrison, 89, 90
  Interior, Department of, Indian affairs placed under control of, 67
  Interpreter, service of Campbell as, 71, 72;
    danger to, from fire, 78;
    activities of, 129, 130, 131;
    service of Renville as, 161
  Interpreters, foreigners as, 138
  "Ione" (steamboat), 169
  Iowa, journey of Kearny across, 29;
    removal of Winnebagoes from, 35, 36, 47;
    expeditions from Fort Snelling into, 41-45
  Iowa, Territory of, 32, 158
  Iowa City, Major Woods at, 41, 42;
    reference to, 43;
    description of, 216
  Iowa County, petition from, 41
  Iowa Indians, 177;
    treaty with, 208
  Iowa River, difficulties with Indians along, 41, 42-44;
    departure of Indians from, 44
  Ireland, 92;
    immigrants from, 189
  Iron, mining of, 25
  Irving, Washington, 14
  Izard, George, 57

  Jack, Captain, war with, 65
  Jackson, Andrew, 15
  Jail, use of, 196
  James, Edward, settlers removed by, 195
  James River, 116
  Jarvis, Doctor, 112
  Jefferson, Thomas, statement of, concerning trade, 4
  Jesuits, work of, 146
  Jewellers, 92
  Jews' harps, giving of, to Indians, 107
  Johnson, George, 118
  Johnson County (Iowa), 41

  Kansas State Historical Society, 221
  Kaposia, 83, 152;
    missionary at, 154;
    abandonment of mission at, 155;
    school at, 156;
    battle near, 232
  Kearny, Stephen Watts, survey of route for military road by, 29
  Keating, William H., 161, 162
  Keelboats, 86
  Kemper, Jackson, letters describing visit of, to Fort Snelling, 169-175;
    reference to, 238, 242
  Kentucky, settlement of, 14;
    reference to, 15, 63
  Kickapoo Indians, treaty with, 208
  Kinzie, John, 117
  Kitchens, 75
  Kittson, Norman W., 140, 235, 245
  Knives, 136

  La Baye, 205
  Laborers, 92
  Lac du Flambeau, 118
  Lac du Traverse, 16
  Lac qui Parle, 110, 116, 144, 154, 155
  Laidlaw, William, 138

  Lake Calhoun, 82, 96, 118, 133, 148, 153, 154;
    mission on, 83
  Lake Harriet, 82, 96, 127, 154, 198;
    Indian boarding-school at, 156
  Lake Huron, 13, 14, 19, 21
  Lake Itasca, 167
  Lake Julia, 163
  Lake Michigan, 17, 19, 21
  Lake Mini-Waken, 40
  Lake of the Isles, 82, 96
  Lake of the Woods, 16, 140, 209
  Lake Pepin, 23, 24, 29, 93, 142, 171, 172, 212
  Lake Pokegama, 232
  Lake St. Croix, 128
  Lake Superior, trading posts on, 6;
    reference to, 9, 47, 160, 162, 172
  Lake Traverse, 103, 116
  Lake Winnebago, 21
  Lake Winnipeg, 4, 162, 189, 205
  Lakes, hunting in region of, 82, 83
  Landing at Fort Snelling, description of, 73
  Lands, questions concerning, 111
  Land's End, 138
  Land-seekers, effect of coming of, 117, 118;
    land cessions urged by, 176
  Latrobe, Charles Joseph, 223
  "Laughing Water," 82
  Laundresses, quarters of, 75
  Lead mines, 178
  Leavenworth, Henry, 21, 29, 63, 190, 211;
    message of, to Indian chief, 21, 22;
    journey of, to mouth of Minnesota River, 22-24;
    arrival of, at mouth of Minnesota River, 24;
    return of, to Prairie du Chien, 24;
    camp moved by, 27;
    successor to, 27;
    sketch of life of, 55, 56
  Lee, Francis, 49
  Leech Lake, Pike at, 6;
    trading post on, 6;
    reference to, 130, 179
  Legend concerning Falls of St. Anthony, 81, 82
  Legend of Sleepy Hollow, The, 14
  Lewis, Meriwether, expedition under, 4, 5;
    reference to, 72
  Library, purchase of books for, 87;
    reference to, 99
  Licenses, granting of, to traders, 16, 137, 138
  Linn County (Iowa), 41
  Liquor, 86;
    effect of, on Indians, 129, 141;
    suppression of traffic in, 129;
    power of, among Indians, 139, 140;
    prices charged for, 141, 142;
    destruction of, 143, 144
  Liquor traffic, regulation of, 139-145
  Little Crow, 68, 116, 117, 132, 155
  Little Falls (Minnesota), 6, 81
  Little Thunder, 118
  Lockwood, Judge, 170
  Log cabins, erection of, 25
  Log village for Indians, 149
  Long, Stephen H., site for fort approved by, 19;
    reference to, 95;
    expedition of, to upper Mississippi, 160-163
  Longfellow, Henry W., 62
  Lookout platform, 74
  Loomis, Gustavus, 36, 156, 166;
    punishment inflicted by, 90
  Loras, Mathias, 127, 231;
    activities of, at Mendota, 158
  Lords of the North, 54-72
  Louisiana, transfer of, 7
  Louisiana Purchase, effect of, 4
  Louisville (Kentucky), 169
  Lover's rock, 172
  Lower Red Cedar Lake, trading post on, 6
  "Loyal Hanna" (steamboat), 169
  Lumber, making of, 27, 28, 82

  McCain, H. P., acknowledgments to, ix
  M'Gillis, Hugh, 6
  McGregor, John R., 196
  McKenny, T. L., 17
  McKenzie, Kenneth, trading house bought by, 79;
    reference to, 138
  McLean, Nathaniel, 71, 220
  McMahon, Doctor, 121
  McNeil, Colonel, 117
  Mackinac, capture of, by British, 9, 10;
    reference to, 11, 12, 18, 118, 146, 201, 209;
    transfer of, to Americans, 18
  Madison, James, 12

  Magazine, 74;
    contents of, 76, 77
  Ma-ghe-ga-bo, 182, 183
  Magruder, William T., 63, 186
  Mahoney, Sergeant, purchases made by, 89
  Mail, carrying of, to Fort Snelling, 97-99, 101
  Maize, raising of, 95
  "Malta" (steamboat), 169
  Man-of-the-sky, 133
  Mandan (North Dakota), 5
  Mandan Indians, Lewis and Clark among, 5;
    reference to, 206
  Maple sugar, 120
  March, preparations for, 93-95
  Marengo (Iowa), difficulties with Indians near, 42, 43
  Marion (Iowa), 42
  Marquette, Jacques, 3, 146
  Marryat, Frederick, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 168, 229
  Marsh, John, letter from, 33;
    service of, as tutor, 100, 101
  Marston, Major, 22
  Massacre of 1862, 118
  Massy, Louis, 192
  Mather, William Williams, visit of, to Fort Snelling, 165
  Mdewakanton Sioux Indians, treaty with, 247
  Meals, character of, 85-87
  Medals, giving up of, by Indians, 6;
    giving of, by English, 112;
    giving of, by United States, 113, 114;
    slur against, 145
  Mendota, treaty of, 49, 247;
    settlement at, 80, 81;
    headquarters of fur trade at, 135, 136;
    factor at, 139;
    reference to, 142, 212, 223, 245;
    religious activities at, 157, 158;
    traders at, 188
  Menominee Indians, unwillingness of, to make treaty, 13;
    reference to, 177
  Mess-rooms, 75
  Mexican War, services of Taylor in, 59;
    services of Scott in, 61;
    reference to, 63;
    service of Canby in, 64
  Mexico, City of, 64, 197
  Michigan, Territory of, 32
  Military frontier, forward movement of, 17, 18
  Military posts, establishment of, 2;
    permission for establishment of, 7
  Military reservation, 192;
    removal of settlers from, 192-195
  Military road, survey of route for, 28, 29
  Military rules, severity of, 91
  Mille Lac, 180
  Miller, John, 19
  Mills, 82, 149;
    guarding of, 96
  Minneapolis, real estate speculation at, 50
  Minnehaha Creek, 27
  Minnehaha Falls, 62, 96, 127, 198
  Minnesota, Indians in, 103;
    diocese of Dubuque extended over, 158;
    reference to, 177
  Minnesota, Territory of, 32, 216;
    organization of, 196
  Minnesota River, Carver on, 1;
    reference to, 2, 21, 30, 31, 47, 55, 74, 106, 110, 111, 118, 121, 138,
            140, 146, 154, 155, 185, 187, 207;
    cession of land at mouth of, secured by Pike, 7, 8;
    promise of trading house at mouth of, 17;
    selection of site for fort at mouth of, 19;
    arrival of troops at mouth of, 24, 212;
    fort located at junction of Mississippi River and, 27;
    concentration of Sioux Indians along, 49;
    scenery at mouth of, 79, 80;
    Indian villages on, 83;
    clearing of timber from banks of, 99;
    expedition up, 162;
    name of, 206
  Minnesota Valley, settlement of, 39;
    geological survey in, 165
  Mission, 83
  Missionaries, 3, 118, 146-158;
    methods of, suggested by Taliaferro, 150, 151;
    service of, 199
  Missionary societies, 145
  Missions, activities at, 155
  Mississippi River, Carver on, 1;
    reference to, 2, 13, 15, 21, 30, 48, 55, 58, 74, 103, 107, 120, 126,
            129, 131, 135, 143, 158, 167, 179, 187, 205, 207;

    foreign jurisdictions over country west of, 2, 3;
    expedition of Pike up, 4;
    activities of British traders on, 5-8;
    cession of land on, secured by Pike, 7, 8;
    treaties with Indians on, 12, 13;
    proposed trading posts on, 17;
    forts on, 18, 19;
    fort located at junction of Minnesota River and, 27;
    exploration of, by Cass, 28;
    scenery along, 79, 80;
    road along, 81;
    Indian villages on, 83;
    low water in, 86;
    seizure of liquor on, 144;
    first steamboat on upper, 159, 160;
    attempt to find source of, 163;
    discovery of source of, 167;
    advertisements of trip on, 168, 169;
    description of journey up, 169-175;
    reasons for cession of land east of, 178, 179;
    cession of land east of, 182-185, 192;
    military reservation on, 193
  Mississippi Valley, settlement of, 39;
    erection of military posts in, 47;
    work of missionaries in, 146;
    opening of, to settlement, 185;
    reference to, 200
  Missouri, increase in population of, 15;
    reference to, 66
  Missouri, Territory of, 29, 32
  Missouri Compromise, 66
  Missouri Fur Company, murder of employees of, 113
  Missouri Indians, 116
  Missouri River, 2, 3, 6, 13, 21, 30, 37, 46, 56, 72, 107, 112, 113, 116,
            135, 138, 148, 167, 205, 216, 230;
    English traders on, 4;
    Lewis and Clark expedition on, 4, 5;
    treaties with Indians on, 12, 13;
    forts on, 19, 20;
    return of Sacs and Foxes from, 42;
    removal of Indians to, 44
  Modoc Indians, war with, 65
  Molino del Rey, Battle of, death of Scott in, 60, 61, 62
  Moncrief, W. T., 226
  Monroe, James, 36, 49, 186, 236
  Monsieur Tonson, 100
  "Monsoon" (steamboat), 169
  Montreal, activities of merchants of, 4
  Moores, Hazen, 143
  Morgan's Bluff, 89
  Morrill, Mr., 50
  Morse, Jedidiah, plan of, for civilizing Indians, 103, 118
  Mud Lake, 125, 191
  Mumford, Mr., 101
  Murderers, surrender of, by Indians, 113;
    killing of, by Chippewas, 122-124;
    punishment of, 125, 126, 132
  Murphy, R. G., 71, 145
  Musick, Peter, killing of cattle of, 191
  Musket flints, 77
  Muskrat furs, exchange of, for liquor, 142
  Muskrats, trapping of, 105
  Mutinies, causes of, 91

  Nadin, complaint of, 181
  Nadoueseronoms, 119
  Navajo Indians, expedition against, 64
  Needles, purchase of, 88
  Nelson River, 189
  Neutral Ground, removal of Winnebagoes from, 47
  New Mexico, 64
  New Orleans, 56
  New Ulm (Minnesota), 49
  New York City, 56, 145, 172, 175;
    draft riots in, 64
  Niagara Falls, 55, 173
  Nichols, R. C., building of Fort Armstrong by, 18
  Nicollet, Jean, exploration by, 3
  Nicollet, Joseph N., explorations by, 166, 167;
    reference to, 180
  Nine Mile River, 174
  Nokay River, 48
  North, Lords of, 54-72
  North Dakota, 40
  North West Company, activities of, 4;
    traders of, 5;
    extent of commerce of, 6;
    reference to, 8, 9, 10, 244

  Northern Pacific Survey, 46
  Northwest, period of foreign rule in, 1-17;
    reference to, 18;
    importance of Fort Snelling in, 55, 118;
    guardian of, 30;
    work of missionaries in, 146-158;
    coming of first steamboat to, 159, 160;
    missionary bishop of, 169, 242;
    part of Fort Snelling in development of, 199, 200;
    meaning of term, 205

  Oak Grove, mission at, 155
  Oats, raising of, 95
  O'Fallon, Benjamin, 16
  Officer of the day, 85
  Officers' Mess, 88
  Officers' quarters, description of, 75;
    fire in, 101
  Officers' Training Camp, 53
  "O. H. Perry" (keelboat), 33, 34
  Ojibway Indians, home of, 103
  Old Northwest, settlement of, 14;
    reference to, 205
  Oliphant, Laurence, 222
  Oliver, Lieutenant, experiences of, 26
  Orderly-room, 75
  Ordnance, alleged lack of, 76;
    stock of, 76, 77
  Ordnance sergeant, quarters of, 75
  Ordway, John, 206
  Oregon treaty, 46
  Orphan asylum, 118
  Orphans, fund for relief of, 87
  Osage Indians, treaty with, 208
  Ottawa Indians, 177
  Otter furs, exchange of, for liquor, 142
  Otter Tail Lake, 37, 131
  Otto, Helen, acknowledgments to, x

  Pacific Coast, emigration to, 45;
    necessity of railroad to, 46;
    survey of route for railroad to, 46, 47
  Pacific Northwest, 205
  Page, Captain, 36
  Painted rock, 175
  Painters, 92
  "Palmyra" Marie, 119, 163
  Saw mill, erection of, 27;
    reference to, 82, 172
  Saxton, Lieutenant, 46
  Say, Thomas, 161, 162
  Scalp dance, 123, 128, 131, 132
  Scalps, taking of, 128
  Scenery, description of, around Fort Snelling, 79, 80
  School, organization of, 101
  Schoolcraft, Henry R., statement by, 14;
    reference to, 119, 130
  Schools, success of, among Indians, 156
  Scientific expeditions, 109
  Scotland, 92;
    immigrants from, 189
  Scott, Dred, fugitive slave case of, 66
  Scott, Martin, sketch of life of, 59-62
  Scott, Winfield, naming of Fort Snelling suggested by, 29, 30;
    reference to, 55
  Scott vs. Sanford, 66
  Scrub brush, purchase of, 88
  Scurvy, ravages of, 26, 213
  Second United States Infantry, 63
  Secretary of War, 19, 103, 130, 149
  Selkirk, Lord, colony of, 188, 189
  Settlement, opening up country to, 184, 185

  Settlements, protection for, 18
  Settlers, annoyance of, by Indians, 42, 43;
    desire of, for land cession, 178;
    service of Fort Snelling to, 187-201;
    disputes between Indians and, 191, 192;
    memorial of, 192;
    efforts to exclude from reservation, 192-195;
    ejection of, 195, 246
  Seymour, Samuel, 161
  Shakopee (Minnesota), 83
  Shakpay, 83
  Shambaugh, Benj. (steamboat), 169
  Van Antwerp, Ver Planck, 180
  Van Cleve, Horatio P., 212
  Van Cleve, Mrs., 231
  Vancouver (Washington), 47
  Vevay (Indiana), 190
  Vinegar, 86
  Vineyard, Miles, 179
  Virginia, 70
  "Virginia" (steamboat), trip of, up Mississippi River, 159, 160
  Volga River, 41
  Voyageurs, 136, 157, 188

  Wabasha (Chief), 33, 117;
    land sold by, 35;
    meeting of couriers at village of, 98;
    missionary at village of, 154;
    village of, 171;
    payment of annuities to Indians under, 185
  Wabasha's Prairie, 35
  Wahpakoota Sioux Indians, treaty with, 247
  Wahpeton Sioux Indians, treaty with, 247
  Wall around Fort Snelling, description of, 73, 74, 76
  Wakh-pa-koo-tay, 243
  Wakinyantanka, 83
  Wamditanka, 83
  Wapsipinicon River, 42
  War Department, 19, 22, 39, 44, 160;
    naming of Fort Snelling by, 29, 30;
    attitude of, toward Fort Snelling, 31;
    Indian affairs placed under control of, 67
  War of 1812, English supported by Indians during, 8-12;
    reference to, 18, 209;
    service of Snelling during, 57;
    service of Taliaferro in, 70
  War parties, 106
  Warfare, history of, between Sioux and Chippewas, 119-134
  "Warrior" (steamboat), 151, 164
  Warriors, desire of, to take part in council, 181
  Washington, George, 168
  Washington (Connecticut), 151
  Washington, D. C., 46, 58, 62, 64, 98, 192;
    visit of Indians to, 68, 115, 116, 179;
    treaty with Sioux at, 184
  Washington Monument Association, 197
  Washington Territory, 46
  Washington's birthday, celebration of, 100
  Water power, 178
  Weapons, stock of, 76, 77
  Webb, James, journey of, to Fort Armstrong, 117
  Webster, Daniel, statement by, 59
  Weddings, 191
  West, prediction of Carver concerning, 1, 2;
    foreign jurisdictions in, 2, 3;
    English supported by Indians in, 8-12;
    rapid development of, 14;
    cause of trouble in, 15;
    influence of Fort Snelling in, 52;
    service of Canby in, 65;
    work of missionaries in, 146
  West Point Military Academy, 62, 63, 100
  Westward movement, 14, 15
  Wheat, spoiling of, 86; raising of, 95
  Wheeling (West Virginia), 161
  Wheelwrights, 92
  Whiskey, 86;
    drinking of, by soldiers, 89;
    efforts to suppress traffic in, 139-145;
    smuggling of, 142, 143;
    destruction of, 143, 144, 243;
    traffic in, 194, 236
  Whistler, Captain, 21, 211
  White Head, 118
  Whitney, Asa, 217

  Whooping cough, epidemic of, 191
  Widows, fund for relief of, 87
  Wilcox, Captain, 32
  Williams, Lieutenant, 99
  Williamson, Thomas S., 110;
    work of, among Indians, 154-157
  Williamson, Mrs. Thomas S., 154
  Wines, seizure of, 143;
    giving of, to Indians, 144
  Winnebago Indians, unwillingness of, to make treaty, 13;
    attempt of, to delay troops, 21, 22;
    outbreak of, 32-34;
    removal of, to new reservation, 35-37, 48;
    reference to, 41, 42, 177, 211, 236;
    treaty with, 47;
    new reservation for, 48;
    disturbances among, 48, 49;
    language of, 174
  Winnebago War, 214
  Winnipeg, 188
  Winona (Minnesota), 35
  Winter, difficulty in securing mail during, 97-99;
    life at Fort Snelling during, 99-102;
    life among Indians during, 104, 109, 110
  Wisconsin, Nicollet in, 3;
    Indian outbreak in, 32-34;
    desire of Winnebagoes to return to, 36;
    reference to, 168;
    desire for land cession in, 178;
    bishop of, 242
  Wisconsin, Territory of, 32, 180;
    marshal of, 195
  Wisconsin Historical Society, 242
  Wisconsin River, 19, 20, 34;
    canal between Fox River and, 20
  Women, social life of, at fort, 100-102
  Wood, Doctor, aid given to sick Indians by, 111, 112
  Wood, securing of, for fuel, 99
  Woods, Samuel, expedition under, 38, 41-45;
    reference to, 40;
    fort established by, 44, 45
  Wool, John E., 194
  Wyandot Indians, treaty with, 208

  Yankton Sioux Indians, half-breed killed by, 37;
    treaty with, 208
  Yeast powder, purchase of, 88
  Yellowstone Expedition, 20;
    failure of, 21
  Yellowstone River, fort at mouth of, 19

Note: There are a number of inconsistencies in spelling and hyphenation which are left as in
the original, as they were copied directly from various sources, such as personal journals.

Page 12, para, 3: Treaty of Ghent, 1914, changed to 1814.

Page 13: 'Menominees' spelled as in original.

Page 98: 'inteligence' spelled as in original.

Page 101: 'great numbers of Dear--Our' spelled as in original.

Page 113: 'afraid to die. the Murderer' as in original. Note: This writer/source doesn't capitalize
normally.

Page 128: Chippeways spelled as in original.

Page 129: 'liveing' spelled as in original.

Page 134: 'Chippeways' spelled as in original.

Page 143: 'Societties' spelled as in original.

Page 156: 'revival among the the soldiers, and' (Removed extra 'the').

Page 170: 'a-head' spelled as in original.

Page 172: 'The Sioux have winter & summer houses. The latter are conical made....' apparently
refers to winter, even though the phrase is 'winter & summer'.

Page 177: 'Menomonies' spelled as in original.

Page 191: Falstrom also spelled Faustram on same page.

Footnote 8: 'tradeing' spelled as in original.

Footnote 8: 'visit us. he' as in original.

Footnote 8: 'Mandens' spelled as in original.

Footnote 27: 'massacreing' spelled as in original.

Footnote 183: Part of year missing from original. Changed from '18 ' to '18'.

Index: Warfare, history of: Siuox changed to Sioux.

