In ancient times the chief fort or castle was called the "morro," or Moorish tower, because
it was generally round; and San Juan, like Havana, has its Morro as the most prominent point
of its fortifications. It stands on a bluff jutting out from the city walls and has a lighthouse
immediately in the rear of it. Against the seaward front of the massive walls the ocean pounds
and thunders, but the landward harbor is quiet and safe for any craft. A broad parade ground
is inclosed within the walls, westward from the citadel, and not far off is the oldest house
in the city, no less a structure than the ancient castle of Ponce de Leon, one- time governor
here and discoverer of Florida. His ashes are also kept here, in a leaden case, for Ponce the
Lion-Hearted was a great man in his day and cleaned out the Indians of this island with a thoroughness
that earned him an exceeding great reward.

Just under the northern wall of the castle is the public cemetery, the gate to it overhung
by an ornate sentry box, and the bones of evicted tenants of graves whose terms of rental have
expired, are piled in the corners of the inclosure. The prevailing winds by day are from the
sea landward; by night, from the inland mountains toward the coast. Far inland rises the conical
summit of the great Luquillo, a mountain about 4,000 feet in height, and from whose sides descend
streams that fertilize the island.

It is about ninety miles from San Juan to Ponce, the southern port, by a fine road diagonally
across the island. The Spaniards generally are poor road-builders, but in this island they
have done better than in Cuba, and one may travel here with a fair amount of comfort to the
mile. There are several lines of railroads building, a system being projected around the island
340 miles in length.

The city of Ponce is the largest, with a population of about 38,000 and an export trade of
vast extent. It is the chief sugar- shipping point, though it has no good harbor, and lies
nearly three miles from the sea. It is a rather fine city, with a pretty plaza and a grand
cathedral, and its houses, like those of San Juan, are all built of stone.

Other harbors are: On the east coast, Fajardo and Humacao; on the north, besides San Juan,
Arrecibo; on the west, Aguadilla. and Mayaguez, at the former of which Columbus watered his
caravels in 1493, and where the original spring still gushes forth.

Going with Puerto Rico are two small islands called Culebra and Vieque, mainly inhabited by
fishermen, but with fine forests of dye and cabinet woods to be exploited. The commerce of
the island is mainly with the United States. We gained $1,000,000 a year in exports to this
island for the last ten years, and nearly $3,000,000 in imports. With a staple government and
under wise control, Puerto Rico will more nearly attain to its full productiveness. The annual
sugar yield is estimated at near 70,000 tons; that of coffee, 17,000 tons; bananas, nearly
200,000,000; cocoanuts, 3,000,000, and tobacco, 7,000,000 pounds. Gold was originally abundant
here, and copper, iron and lead have been found. With enterprise and protection to life and
property they will be profitably exploited.

COLONIAL POSSESSIONS OF SPAIN.

The loss of Cuba and Puerto Rico did not leave Spain without colonial possessions, as the subjoined
table will show:

                                             Area--English
Possessions in Asia                          square miles. Population.

Philippine Islands                               114,326   7,000,000
Sulu Islands                                         950      73,000
Caroline Islands and Palaos                          560      36,000
Marianne Islands                                     420      10,172
                                                 -------   ---------
Total Asiatic possessions                        116,256   7,121,172

Possessions in Africa

Rio de Oro and Adrar                              243,000    100,000
Ifni                                                   27      6,000
Fernando Po, Annabon, Corsico, Elobey, San Juan       850     30,000
                                                  -------    -------
Total African possessions                         243,877    136,000

The Sulu archipelago lies southwest of the Island of Mindanao, and directly south of Manila
and the Mindora sea. The chief island gives its name to the group, which extends to the three-mile
limit of Borneo. The area of the whole is estimated at 950 square miles; the population at
75,000 Melanesians.

The Caroline and Marianne, or Ladrone Islands, are more numerous, but scarcely as important
or as populous as the Sulu group. They belong to what is sometimes known as Micronesia, from
the extreme diminutiveness of the land masses. The two groups are east and northeast of the
Philippines, and in easy sailing reach from Manila. From east to west they are spread over
30-odd degrees of longitude, and from north to south over 20 degrees of latitude.

The inhabited islands are of coral formation, generally not over ten or twelve feet above high
water mark. They are, in fact, heaps of sand and seaweed blown over the coral reefs. Most of
these islands are narrow bands of land from a few yards to a third of a mile across, with a
lagoon partly or wholly inclosed by the reef. Cocoanuts and fish are the chief reliance of
the natives, who are an inferior species, even for Polynesians.

First and most attractive of the African dependencies, both by reason of natural resources
and of their advantages as a naval base, are the Canaries, which are regarded as a part of
the Spanish kingdom proper, so long and so secure has been the hold of Spain upon them.

More extensive in area, if not more attractive for residence purposes, is the sandy, partially
desert stretch bearing the names of Rio de Oro (River of Gold), and Adrar. The imaginary line
familiar to schoolboys under the name of the Tropic of Cancer has an especial fondness for
this region, passing near the north and south center. The district is close to the Canaries
on its northern edge, and it is ruled by a sub-governor under the Governor of the Canaries.
There are two small settlements on the coast The only glory Spain gets from this possession
is that of seeing its color mark on the maps of Africa.

Of the other African possessions enumerated some are hardly big enough to be seen on an ordinary
map without the aid of a microscope. Corisco is a little stretch of coast around an inlet just
south of Cape St. John, near the equator. Fernando Po Island will be found right in the inner
crook of the big African elbow. Annabon Island is off Cape Lopez.

Another possession or claim of the decadent peninsula monarchy remains to be catalogued--the
country on the banks of the Muni and Campo rivers, 69,000 square miles, and containing a population
of 500,000. The title to this section is also claimed by France.

CHAPTER XLVII.

PROGRESS OF HOSTILITIES.

Eagerness to Fight--Matanzas Bombarded--Weyler's Brother-in-law a Prisoner of War--The Situation
in Havana--Blanco Makes a Personal Appeal to Gomez--The Reply of a Patriot--"One Race, Mankind"--The
Momentum of War--Our Position Among Nations.

The striking peculiarity at the commencement of the war was the general eagerness to fight.
There have been wars in which there was much maneuvering and blustering, but no coming to blows.
There have been campaigns on sea and land in which commanders exhausted the devices of strategy
to keep out of each other's way, but in this war the Americans strained strategy, evaded rules,
and sought excuses to get at the Spaniards.

Given a Spanish fortified town and an American fleet, and there was a bombardment on short
notice. Given a Spanish fort and a Yankee gunboat, and there was a fight. There were no "all-quiet-
on-the-Potomac" or "nothing-new-before-Paris" refrains. The Americans knew they were right,
and they went ahead.

MATANZAS BOMBARDED.

The first actual bombardment of Cuban forts took place on April 27th at Matanzas, when three
ships of Admiral Sampson's fleet, the flagship New York, the monitor Puritan, and the cruiser
Cincinnati, opened fire upon the fortifications. The Spaniards had been actively at work on
the fortifications at Punta Gorda, and it was the knowledge of this fact that led Admiral Sampson
to shell the place, the purpose being to prevent their completion.

A small battery on the eastern side of the bay opened fire on the New York, and the flagship
quickly responded with her heavy guns. Probably twenty-five eight-inch shells were sent from
the battery at our ships, but all of them fell short. A few blank shells were also fired from
the incomplete battery.

One or two of those whizzed over Admiral Sampson's flagship. After completing their work the
ships put out to the open sea, the flagship returning to its post off Havana, while the Cincinnati
and the Puritan remained on guard off Matanzas. While the flagship New York, her sister cruiser,
the Cincinnati, and the monitor Puritan were locating the defenses of Matanzas harbor the batteries
guarding the entrance opened fire on the New York. Their answer was a broadside from Admiral
Sampson's flagship, the first fire being from the forward eight-inch gun on the port side.
The monitor attacked the Point Maya fortification, the flagship went in close and shelled Rubalcaya
Point, while the Cincinnati was soon at work shelling the fortification on the west side of
the bay. In less than twenty minutes Admiral Sampson's warships had silenced the Spanish batteries.

The explosive shells from the forts fell wide of the ships. The last one fired from the shore
was from Point Rubalcaya. The monitor Puritan let go with a shot from one of her twelve-inch
guns, and its effect was seen when a part of the fortification went into the air. The battery
at Maya was the stronger of the two and its fire more constant, but all its shells failed to
hit our ships.

The target practice of the flagship was an inspiring sight. At every shot from her batteries,
clouds of dust and big pieces of stone showed where the Spanish forts were suffering. The New
York, after reducing the range from over six thousand to three thousand yards, fired shells
at the rate of three a minute into the enemy's forts, each one creating havoc. The Puritan
took equally good care of Point Maya. When she succeeded in getting the range, her gunners
landed a shell inside the works at every shot.

When permission was given to the Cincinnati to take part in the first battle between Yankee
and Spanish forces, the cruiser came up to within 2,000 yards of the shore, and almost immediately
her guns were at work. Cadet Boone on the flagship fired the first gun in answer to the Spanish
batteries.

The Spanish mail steamer Argonauta, Captain Lage, was convoyed into Key West harbor by the
United States cruiser Marblehead on May 3. Colonel Vicente De Cortijo of the Third Spanish
cavalry, who, with nineteen other army officers, was taken on the prize, is a brother-in-law
of Lieutenant General Valeriano Weyler. Colonel De Cortijo and the other officers were transferred
to the Guido and the privates to the Ambrosio Bolivar, two other trophies of the first week
of the war.

The Argonauta herself was no mean prize, being of 1,000 tons burden, but the value of the capture
was mainly in the prisoners of war and the mail matter going to General Blanco. Her cargo was
general merchandise, with a large quantity of ammunition and supplies for the Spanish troops
in Cuba.

THE SITUATION IN HAVANA.

A correspondent wrote from Havana, on the 3d of May, as follows:

"The dispatch boat succeeded again to-day in opening communication with Havana, and your correspondent
brought away with him the morning papers of yesterday.

"The City of Havana is a sad sight. There are still a few of the reconcentrados about the streets
now, but starvation has ended the misery of most of them, and their bones have been thrown
into the trenches outside of the city.

"Starvation now faces the Spanish citizens themselves. Havana is a graveyard. Two-thirds of
the inhabitants have fled. The other third is beginning to feel the pangs of hunger.

"The prices rival those of Klondike. Beefsteak is $1 a pound. Chickens are $1 each. Flour is
$50 a barrel. Everything is being confiscated for Blanco's army. Sleek, well-fed persons are
daily threatened with death to make them divulge the whereabouts of their hidden stores of
provisions.

"Several provision stores in the side streets have been broken into and looted. General Blanco
is being strongly urged to sink artesian wells to provide water in the event of a siege, as
a joint attack by the Cuban and American forces would destroy the aqueduct. It is not thought
that Blanco will attempt this, as he will not have sufficient time.

"A bulletin posted on the wall of the palace this morning announced that the mail steamship
Aviles from Nuevitasa and the Cosine Herra from Sagua arrived last night. It is also stated
that the Spanish brig Vigilante arrived at Matanzas from Montevideo with food supplies for
the government.

"The palace of the Captain General is practically deserted since the blockade began. Blanco
has personally taken command of Mariena battery, and is directing the erection of new sand
batteries all along the water front west of the entrance to Havana Bay. Lieutenant General
Perrado is making Guanabacoa his headquarters, and is planting new batteries and strengthening
the fortifications as much as possible. Over 300 draymen are engaged in the hauling of sand
from the mouth of Almandres for use in the construction of the earthworks along the coast,
and in the city suburbs all draymen have been ordered to report for volunteer duty with their
drays. The streets are riotous with half-drunken Spanish volunteers crying for American and
Cuban blood.

"At night the city is wrapped in darkness, all gas and electric lights being shut off by order
of Blanco. Spanish soldiers are taking advantage of this to commit shocking outrages upon unprotected
Cuban families. In spite of these direful circumstances Blanco has ordered the decoration of
the city, hoping to incite the patriotism of the populace."

BLANCO MAKES A PERSONAL APPEAL TO GOMEZ.

On May 4 General Blanco made a supreme effort to win over the Cuban forces, writing a letter
to General Gomez. A copy of this letter and the answer of General Gomez were found upon Commander
Lima, who was picked up by the Tecumseh fifteen miles from Havana. The letter of General Blanco
was as follows:

General Maximo Gomez, Commander-in-Chief of the Revolutionary Forces:

Sir--It cannot be concealed from you that the Cuban problem has radically changed. We Spaniards
and Cubans find ourselves facing a foreign people of different race, of a naturally absorbent
tendency, and with intentions not only to deprive Spain of her flag over the Cuban soil, but
also to exterminate the Cuban people, due to its having Spanish blood.

The supreme moment has, therefore, arrived in which we should forget our past misunderstandings,
and in which, united by the interests of our own defense, we, Spaniards and Cubans, must repel
the invader.

General, due to these reasons, I propose to make alliance of both armies in the City of Santa
Clara. The Cubans will receive the arms of the Spanish army, and with the cry of "Viva Espana!"
and "Viva Cuba!" we shall repel the invader and free from a foreign yoke the descendants of
the same people.

Your obedient servant,

RAMON BLANCO.

To this General Gomez replied as follows:

Sir--I wonder how you dare to write me again about terms of peace when you know that Cubans
and Spaniards can never be at peace on the soil of Cuba. You represent on this continent an
old and discredited monarchy. We are fighting for an American principle, the same as that of
Bolivar and Washington.

You say we belong to the same race and invite me to fight against a foreign invader, but you
are mistaken again, for there are no differences of races and blood. I only believe in one
race, mankind, and for me there are but good and bad nations, Spain so far having been a bad
one and the United States performing in these movements toward Cuba a duty of humanity and
civilization.

From the wild, tawny Indian to the refined, blond Englishman, a man for me is worthy of respect
according to his honesty and feelings, no matter to what country or race he belongs or what
religion he professes.

So are nations for me, and up to the present I have had only reasons for admiring the United
States. I have written to President McKinley and General Miles thanking them for American intervention
in Cuba. I don't see the danger of our extermination by the United States, to which you refer
in your letter. If it be so, history will judge. For the present I have to repeat that it is
too late for any understanding between my army and yours.

Your obedient servant,

MAXIMO GOMEZ.

ONE RACE--MANKIND.

The reply of Gomez to Blanco will live in history. Blanco's strange appeal to the Cuban general
was characteristic of a Spaniard. It would seem that an intelligent man would not have made
such an appeal, well knowing that it would be useless. For three years Gomez had waged what
to many seemed to be a hopeless fight. After these years of sacrifice he obtained the United
States as an ally, an acquisition that assured him of final success. Under these circumstances
Blanco, the representative of the forces against which Gomez had been contending, appealed
to Gomez to join with him in an effort to repel the United States forces. Such an appeal under
the circumstances, in view of the fact that Blanco was regarded as an intelligent man, showed
the Spaniard to be incapable of appreciating the sentiments which prompted a people to maintain
a struggle for liberty.

General Blanco based his appeal upon the claim that the Cuban and the Spaniard belonged to
the same race and worshiped at the same shrine. He sought to stir up within Gomez' breast racial
and religious prejudices, and went so far as to suggest that in the event Gomez united his
forces with those of Blanco, Spain would give liberty to Cuba, and would "open her arms to
another new daughter of the nations of the new world who speak her language, profess her religion
and feel in their veins the noble Spanish blood."

Gomez' letter was interesting for several reasons. To those who had pictured him as a coarse,
illiterate man this letter was a revelation. It was not, however, a surprise to those who had
carefully studied Gomez' career and who understand that he was a scholarly man as well as a
thorough soldier.

"I only believe in one race, mankind," said Gomez, and that sentence will occupy a conspicuous
place in the history of this continent. Such excellent sentiments were doubtless wasted on
the Spaniard, but men of all civilized nations, even we of the United States, may find great
value in these splendid expressions by the Cuban general.

The man who believes that there is but one race to whom we owe allegiance, that that race is
mankind, and that to that race he owes all allegiance, must have his heart in the right place.
The man who discards the consideration of accident of birth and, apart from patriotic affairs,
applies the term "comrade" to all of God's creatures, that man has not studied in vain the
purposes of creation. The man who forms his estimate of individuals according to the manhood
displayed by the individual, banishing from his mind all racial and religious prejudices, must
certainly have studied the lesson of life to good advantage.

"I only believe in one race, mankind." That is a sentiment that the religious instructors and
the sages have endeavored to impress upon us. But the combined efforts of all the instructors
and all the sages in teaching of the brotherhood of man have not been so impressive as was
the simple statement of this splendid patriot wherein he repelled the temptation to racial
and religious prejudice.

Mankind is the race, and the honest man's the man, no matter to what country he belongs or
what religion he professes. That was a sentiment of Maximo Gomez, the Cuban patriot, the clean-cut
American, a sentiment to which the intelligence of the world will subscribe and in the light
of which prejudice must finally fade away.

THE MOMENTUM OF WAR.

As far as the American people were concerned, the destruction of the Maine was the beginning
of hostilities. The Nation dropped, on the instant, the slow-going habits of peace, and caught
step to the intense and swift impulse of war. Great events crowded one another to such an extent
that we made more history in sixty days than in the preceding thirty years. The movement was
not a wild drifting, but was as straight, swift, and resistless as that of a cannon ball. There
was an object in view, and the government and the people went straight at it,

When the Maine was destroyed our navy was scattered, our army was at thirty different posts
in as many States, there were no volunteers in the field, no purpose of war in the minds of
the people. The Spanish hold on Cuba seemed secure; no one thought of Spain's yielding Puerto
Rico or the Philippine islands. The people could not be brought to serious consideration of
the Cuban question, and they were indifferent to the fate of Hawaii. They held back when any
one talked of our rights in the Pacific, and had little enthusiasm in the plans to strengthen
our navy and our coast defenses. All these questions were urgent, but the people hesitated
and Congress hesitated with them.

The explosion that destroyed our battleship and slaughtered our seamen cut every rope that
bound us to inaction. In a week the navy was massed for offensive movement. In three weeks
$50,000,000 had been placed at the disposal of the President to forward the preparations for
national defense. In a month new war vessels had been purchased, the old monitors had been
repaired and put in commission, the American liners had been transferred to the navy. In two
months war had been declared, the reorganized North Atlantic squadron had blockaded Cuban ports,
and the regular army was moving hurriedly to rendezvous in the South. In another week 125,000
volunteers were crowding the State capitals.

Under the momentum of war we swept forward in a few weeks to the most commanding position we
had ever occupied among nations. Without bluster or boast we impressed the world with our strength,
and made clear the righteousness of our cause. We proved that a republic wedded to peace can
prepare quickly for war, and that a popular government is as quick and powerful as a monarchy
to avenge insult or wrong.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

SEA FIGHT OFF MANILA, AMERICANS VICTORIOUS.

The Eyes of the World Fixed on the First Great Naval Battle of Our War with Spain--Asiatic
Waters the Scene of the Notable Conflict--Importance of the Battle in Its Possible Influence
on the Construction of All the European Navies--Bravery of Admiral Dewey and the American Sailors
of His Fleet--A Glorious Victory for the Star-Spangled Banner--Capture of Manila and Destruction
of the Spanish Fleet.

