THE ENGLISH UTILITARIANS

By

LESLIE STEPHEN

LONDON

DUCKWORTH and CO.

3 HENRIETTA STREET, W.C.

1900

PREFACE

This book is a sequel to my History of English Thought in the Eighteenth Century. The title
which I then ventured to use was more comprehensive than the work itself deserved: I felt my
inability to write a continuation which should at all correspond to a similar title for the
nineteenth century. I thought, however, that by writing an account of the compact and energetic
school of English Utilitarians I could throw some light both upon them and their contemporaries.
I had the advantage for this purpose of having been myself a disciple of the school during
its last period. Many accidents have delayed my completion of the task; and delayed also its
publication after it was written. Two books have been published since that time, which partly
cover the same ground; and I must be content with referring my readers to them for further
information. They are The English Radicals, by Mr. C. B. Roylance Kent; and English Political
Philosophy from Hobbes to Maine, by Professor Graham.

CONTENTS

                                     PAGE
  INTRODUCTORY                          1

  CHAPTER I

  POLITICAL CONDITIONS

    I. The British Constitution        12

   II. The Ruling Class                18

  III. Legislation and Administration  22

   IV. The Army and Navy               30

    V. The Church                      35

   VI. The Universities                43

  VII. Theory                          51

  CHAPTER II

  THE INDUSTRIAL SPIRIT

    I. The Manufacturers               57

   II. The Agriculturists              69

  CHAPTER III

  SOCIAL PROBLEMS

    I. Pauperism                       87

   II. The Police                      99

  III. Education                      108

   IV. The Slave-Trade                113

    V. The French Revolution          121

   VI. Individualism                  130

  CHAPTER IV

  PHILOSOPHY

    I. John Horne Tooke               137

   II. Dugald Stewart                 142

  CHAPTER V

  BENTHAM'S LIFE

    I. Early Life                     169

   II. First Writings                 175

  III. The Panopticon                 193

   IV. Utilitarian Propaganda         206

    V. Codification                   222

  CHAPTER VI

  BENTHAM'S DOCTRINE

    I. First Principles               235

   II. Springs of Action              249

  III. The Sanctions                  255

   IV. Criminal Law                   263

    V. English Law                    271

   VI. Radicalism                     282

  VII. Individualism                  307

  NOTE ON BENTHAM'S WRITINGS          319

INTRODUCTORY

The English Utilitarians of whom I am about to give some account were a group of men who for
three generations had a conspicuous influence upon English thought and political action. Jeremy
Bentham, James Mill, and John Stuart Mill were successively their leaders; and I shall speak
of each in turn. It may be well to premise a brief indication of the method which I have adopted.
I have devoted a much greater proportion of my work to biography and to consideration of political
and social conditions than would be appropriate to the history of a philosophy. The reasons
for such a course are very obvious in this case, inasmuch as the Utilitarian doctrines were
worked out with a constant reference to practical applications. I think, indeed, that such
a reference is often equally present, though not equally conspicuous, in other philosophical
schools. But in any case I wish to show how I conceive the relation of my scheme to the scheme
more generally adopted by historians of abstract speculation.

I am primarily concerned with the history of a school or sect, not with the history of the
arguments by which it justifies itself in the court of pure reason. I must therefore consider
the creed as it was actually embodied in the dominant beliefs of the adherents of the school,
not as it was expounded in lecture-rooms or treatises on first principles. I deal not with
philosophers meditating upon Being and not-Being, but with men actively engaged in framing
political platforms and carrying on popular agitations. The great majority even of intelligent
partisans are either indifferent to the philosophic creed of their leaders or take it for granted.
Its postulates are more or less implied in the doctrines which guide them in practice, but
are not explicitly stated or deliberately reasoned out. Not the less the doctrines of a sect,
political or religious, may be dependent upon theories which for the greater number remain
latent or are recognised only in their concrete application. Contemporary members of any society,
however widely they differ as to results, are employed upon the same problems and, to some
extent, use the same methods and make the same assumptions in attempting solutions. There is
a certain unity even in the general thought of any given period. Contradictory views imply
some common ground. But within this wider unity we find a variety of sects, each of which may
be considered as more or less representing a particular method of treating the general problem:
and therefore principles which, whether clearly recognised or not, are virtually implied in
their party creed and give a certain unity to their teaching.

One obvious principle of unity, or tacit bond of sympathy which holds a sect together depends
upon the intellectual idiosyncrasy of the individuals. Coleridge was aiming at an important
truth when he said that every man was born an Aristotelian or a Platonist.[1] Nominalists and
realists, intuitionists and empiricists, idealists and materialists, represent different forms
of a fundamental antithesis which appears to run through all philosophy. Each thinker is apt
to take the postulates congenial to his own mind as the plain dictates of reason. Controversies
between such opposites appear to be hopeless. They have been aptly compared by Dr. Venn to
the erection of a snow-bank to dam a river. The snow melts and swells the torrent which it
was intended to arrest. Each side reads admitted truths into its own dialect, and infers that
its own dialect affords the only valid expression. To regard such antitheses as final and insoluble
would be to admit complete scepticism. What is true for one man would not therefore be true--or
at least its truth would not be demonstrable--to another. We must trust that reconciliation
is achievable by showing that the difference is really less vital and corresponds to a difference
of methods or of the spheres within which each mode of thought may be valid. To obtain the
point of view from which such a conciliation is possible should be, I hold, one main end of
modern philosophising.

The effect of this profound intellectual difference is complicated by other obvious influences.
There is, in the first place, the difference of intellectual horizon. Each man has a world
of his own and sees a different set of facts. Whether his horizon is that which is visible
from his parish steeple or from St. Peter's at Rome, it is still strictly limited: and the
outside universe, known vaguely and indirectly, does not affect him like the facts actually
present to his perception. The most candid thinkers will come to different conclusions when
they are really provided with different sets of fact. In political and social problems every
man's opinions are moulded by his social station. The artisan's view of the capitalist, and
the capitalist's view of the artisan, are both imperfect, because each has a first-hand knowledge
of his own class alone: and, however anxious to be fair, each will take a very different view
of the working of political institutions. An apparent concord often covers the widest divergence
under the veil of a common formula, because each man has his private mode of interpreting general
phrases in terms of concrete fact.

This, of course, implies the further difference arising from the passions which, however illogically,
go so far to determine opinions. Here we have the most general source of difficulty in considering
the actual history of a creed. We cannot limit ourselves to the purely logical factor. All
thought has to start from postulates. Men have to act before they think: before, at any rate,
reasoning becomes distinct from imagining or guessing. To explain in early periods is to fancy
and to take a fancy for a perception. The world of the primitive man is constructed not only
from vague conjectures and hasty analogies but from his hopes and fears, and bears the impress
of his emotional nature. When progress takes place some of his beliefs are confirmed, some
disappear, and others are transformed: and the whole history of thought is a history of this
gradual process of verification. We begin, it is said, by assuming: we proceed by verifying,
and we only end by demonstrating. The process is comparatively simple in that part of knowledge
which ultimately corresponds to the physical sciences. There must be a certain harmony between
beliefs and realities in regard to knowledge of ordinary matters of fact, if only because such
harmony is essential to the life of the race. Even an ape must distinguish poisonous from wholesome
food. Beliefs as to physical facts require to be made articulate and distinct; but we have
only to recognise as logical principles the laws of nature which we have unconsciously obeyed
and illustrated--to formulate dynamics long after we have applied the science in throwing stones
or using bows and arrows. But what corresponds to this in the case of the moral and religious
beliefs? What is the process of verification? Men practically are satisfied with their creed
so long as they are satisfied with the corresponding social order. The test of truth so suggested
is obviously inadequate: for all great religions, however contradictory to each other, have
been able to satisfy it for long periods. Particular doctrines might be tested by experiment.
The efficacy of witchcraft might be investigated like the efficacy of vaccination. But faith
can always make as many miracles as it wants: and errors which originate in the fancy cannot
be at once extirpated by the reason. Their form may be changed but not their substance. To
remove them requires not disproof of this or that fact, but an intellectual discipline which
is rare even among the educated classes. A religious creed survives, as poetry or art survives,--not
so long as it contains apparently true statements of fact but--so long as it is congenial to
the whole social state. A philosophy indeed is a poetry stated in terms of logic. Considering
the natural conservatism of mankind, the difficulty is to account for progress, not for the
persistence of error. When the existing order ceases to be satisfactory; when conquest or commerce
has welded nations together and brought conflicting creeds into cohesion; when industrial development
has modified the old class relations; or when the governing classes have ceased to discharge
their functions, new principles are demanded and new prophets arise. The philosopher may then
become the mouthpiece of the new order, and innocently take himself to be its originator. His
doctrines were fruitless so long as the soil was not prepared for the seed. A premature discovery
if not stamped out by fire and sword is stifled by indifference. If Francis Bacon succeeded
where Roger Bacon failed, the difference was due to the social conditions, not to the men.
The cause of the great religious as well as of the great political revolutions must be sought
mainly in the social history. New creeds spread when they satisfy the instincts or the passions
roused to activity by other causes. The system has to be so far true as to be credible at the
time; but its vitality depends upon its congeniality as a whole to the aspirations of the mass
of mankind.

The purely intellectual movement no doubt represents the decisive factor. The love of truth
in the abstract is probably the weakest of human passions; but truth when attained ultimately
gives the fulcrum for a reconstruction of the world. When a solid core of ascertained and verifiable
truth has once been formed and applied to practical results it becomes the fixed pivot upon
which all beliefs must ultimately turn. The influence, however, is often obscure and still
indirect. The more cultivated recognise the necessity of bringing their whole doctrine into
conformity with the definitely organised and established system; and, at the present day, even
the uneducated begin to have an inkling of possible results. Yet the desire for logical consistency
is not one which presses forcibly upon the less cultivated intellects. They do not feel the
necessity of unifying knowledge or bringing their various opinions into consistency and into
harmony with facts. There are easy methods of avoiding any troublesome conflict of belief.
The philosopher is ready to show them the way. He, like other people, has to start from postulates,
and to see how they will work. When he meets with a difficulty it is perfectly legitimate that
he should try how far the old formula can be applied to cover the new applications. He may
be led to a process of 'rationalising' or 'spiritualising' which is dangerous to intellectual
honesty. The vagueness of the general conceptions with which he is concerned facilitates the
adaptation; and his words slide into new meanings by imperceptible gradations. His error is
in taking a legitimate tentative process for a conclusive test; and inferring that opinions
are confirmed because a non-natural interpretation can be forced upon them. This, however,
is only the vicious application of the normal process through which new ideas are diffused
or slowly infiltrate the old systems till the necessity of a thoroughgoing reconstruction forces
itself upon our attention. Nor can it be denied that an opposite fallacy is equally possible,
especially in times of revolutionary passion. The apparent irreconcilability of some new doctrine
with the old may lead to the summary rejection of the implicit truth, together with the error
involved in its imperfect recognition. Hence arises the necessity for faking into account not
only a man's intellectual idiosyncrasies and the special intellectual horizon, but all the
prepossessions due to his personal character, his social environment, and his consequent sympathies
and antipathies. The philosopher has his passions like other men. He does not really live in
the thin air of abstract speculation. On the contrary, he starts generally, and surely is right
in starting, with keen interest in the great religious, ethical, and social problems of the
time. He wishes--honestly and eagerly--to try them by the severest tests, and to hold fast
only what is clearly valid. The desire to apply his principles in fact justifies his pursuit,
and redeems him from the charge that he is delighting in barren intellectual subtleties. But
to an outsider his procedure may appear in a different light. His real problem comes to be:
how the conclusions which are agreeable to his emotions can be connected with the postulates
which are congenial to his intellect? He may be absolutely honest and quite unconscious that
his conclusions were prearranged by his sympathies. No philosophic creed of any importance
has ever been constructed, we may well believe, without such sincerity and without such plausibility
as results from its correspondence to at least some aspects of the truth. But the result is
sufficiently shown by the perplexed controversies which arise. Men agree in their conclusions,
though starting from opposite premises; or from the same premises reach the most diverging
conclusions. The same code of practical morality, it is often said, is accepted by thinkers
who deny each other's first principles; dogmatism often appears to its opponents to be thoroughgoing
scepticism in disguise, and men establish victoriously results which turn out in the end to
be really a stronghold for their antagonists.

Hence there is a distinction between such a history of a sect as I contemplate and a history
of scientific inquiry or of pure philosophy. A history of mathematical or physical science
would differ from a direct exposition of the science, but only in so far as it would state
truths in the order of discovery, not in the order most convenient for displaying them as a
system. It would show what were the processes by which they were originally found out, and
how they have been afterwards annexed or absorbed in some wider generalisation. These facts
might be stated without any reference to the history of the discoverers or of the society to
which they belonged. They would indeed suggest very interesting topics to the general historian
or 'sociologist.' He might be led to inquire under what conditions men came to inquire scientifically
at all; why they ceased for centuries to care for science; why they took up special departments
of investigation; and what was the effect of scientific discoveries upon social relations in
general. But the two inquiries would be distinct for obvious reasons. If men study mathematics
they can only come to one conclusion. They will find out the same propositions of geometry
if they only think clearly enough and long enough, as certainly as Columbus would discover
America if he only sailed far enough. America was there, and so in a sense are the propositions.
We may therefore in this case entirely separate the two questions: what leads men to think?
and what conclusions will they reach? The reasons which guided the first discoverers are just
as valid now, though they can be more systematically stated. But in the 'moral sciences' this
distinction is not equally possible. The intellectual and the social evolution are closely
and intricately connected, and each reacts upon the other. In the last resort no doubt a definitive
system of belief once elaborated would repose upon universally valid truths and determine,
instead of being determined by, the corresponding social order. But in the concrete evolution
which, we may hope, is approximating towards this result, the creeds current among mankind
have been determined by the social conditions as well as helped to determine them. To give
an account of that process it is necessary to specify the various circumstances which may lead
to the survival of error, and to the partial views of truth taken by men of different idiosyncrasies
working upon different data and moved by different passions and prepossessions. A history written
upon these terms would show primarily what, as a fact, were the dominant beliefs during a given
period, and state which survived, which disappeared, and which were transformed or engrafted
upon other systems of thought. This would of course raise the question of the truth or falsehood
of the doctrines as well as of their vitality: for the truth is at least one essential condition
of permanent vitality. The difference would be that the problem would be approached from a
different side. We should ask first what beliefs have flourished, and afterwards ask why they
flourished, and how far their vitality was due to their partial or complete truth. To write
such a history would perhaps require an impartiality which few people possess and which I do
not venture to claim. I have my own opinions for which other people may account by prejudice,
assumption, or downright incapacity. I am quite aware that I shall be implicitly criticising
myself in criticising others. All that I can profess is that by taking the questions in this
order, I shall hope to fix attention upon one set of considerations which are apt, as I fancy,
to be unduly neglected. The result of reading some histories is to raise the question: how
people on the other side came to be such unmitigated fools? Why were they imposed upon by such
obvious fallacies? That may be answered by considering more fully the conditions under which
the opinions were actually adopted, and one result may be to show that those opinions had a
considerable element of truth, and were held by men who were the very opposite of fools. At
any rate I shall do what I can to write an account of this phase of thought, so as to bring
out what were its real tenets; to what intellectual type they were naturally congenial; what
were the limitations of view which affected the Utilitarians' conception of the problems to
be solved; and what were the passions and prepossessions due to the contemporary state of society
and to their own class position, which to some degree unconsciously dictated their conclusions.
So far as I can do this satisfactorily, I hope that I may throw some light upon the intrinsic
value of the creed, and the place which it should occupy in a definitive system.

NOTES:

[1] Table-Talk, 3 July 1830.

CHAPTER I

POLITICAL CONDITIONS

I. THE BRITISH CONSTITUTION

The English Utilitarians represent one outcome of the speculations current in England during
the later part of the eighteenth century. For the reasons just assigned I shall begin by briefly
recalling some of the social conditions which set the problems for the coming generation and
determined the mode of answering them. I must put the main facts in evidence, though they are
even painfully familiar. The most obvious starting-point is given by the political situation.
The supremacy of parliament had been definitively established by the revolution of 1688, and
had been followed by the elaboration of the system of party government. The centre of gravity
of the political world lay in the House of Commons. No minister could hold power unless he
could command a majority in this house. Jealousy of the royal power, however, was still a ruling
passion. The party line between Whig and Tory turned ostensibly upon this issue. The essential
Whig doctrine is indicated by Dunning's famous resolution (6 April 1780) that 'the power of
the crown had increased, was increasing, and ought to be diminished.' The resolution was in
one sense an anachronism. As in many other cases, politicians seem to be elaborately slaying
the slain and guarding against the attacks of extinct monsters. There was scarcely more probability
under George III. than there is under Victoria that the king would try to raise taxes without
consent of parliament. George III., however, desired to be more than a contrivance for fixing
the great seal to official documents. He had good reason for thinking that the weakness of
the executive was an evil. The king could gain power not by attacking the authority of parliament
but by gaining influence within its walls. He might form a party of 'king's friends' able to
hold the balance between the connections formed by the great families and so break up the system
of party government. The king had at his disposal a vast amount of patronage. There were relics
of ancient institutions: the principality of Wales, the duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall,
and the earldom of Chester; each with its revenue and establishment of superfluous officials.
The royal household was a complex 'body corporate' founded in the old days of 'purveyance.'
There was the mysterious 'Board of Green Cloth' formed by the great officers and supposed to
have judicial as well as administrative functions. Cumbrous mediæval machinery thus remained
which had been formed in the time when the distinction between a public trust and private property
was not definitely drawn or which had been allowed to remain for the sake of patronage, when
its functions had been transferred to officials of more modern type. Reform was foiled, as
Burke put it, because the turnspit in the king's kitchen was a member of parliament. Such sinecures
and the pensions on the civil list or the Irish establishment provided the funds by which the
king could build up a personal influence, which was yet occult, irresponsible, and corrupt.
The measure passed by Burke in 1782[2] made a beginning in the removal of such abuses.

Meanwhile the Whigs were conveniently blind to another side of the question. If the king could
buy, it was because there were plenty of people both able and willing to sell. Bubb Dodington,
a typical example of the old system, had five or six seats at his disposal: subject only to
the necessity of throwing a few pounds to the 'venal wretches' who went through the form of
voting, and by dealing in what he calls this 'merchantable ware' he managed by lifelong efforts
to wriggle into a peerage. The Dodingtons, that is, sold because they bought. The 'venal wretches'
were the lucky franchise-holders in rotten boroughs. The 'Friends of the People'[3] in 1793
made the often-repeated statement that 154 individuals returned 307 members, that is, a majority
of the house. In Cornwall, again, 21 boroughs with 453 electors controlled by about 15 individuals
returned 42 members,[4] or, with the two county members, only one member less than Scotland;
and the Scottish members were elected by close corporations in boroughs and by the great families
in counties. No wonder if the House of Commons seemed at times to be little more than an exchange
for the traffic between the proprietors of votes and the proprietors of offices and pensions.

The demand for the reforms advocated by Burke and Dunning was due to the catastrophe of the
American War. The scandal caused by the famous coalition of 1783 showed that a diminution of
the royal influence might only make room for selfish bargains among the proprietors of parliamentary
influence. The demand for reform was taken up by Pitt. His plan was significant. He proposed
to disfranchise a few rotten boroughs; but to soften this measure he afterwards suggested that
a million should be set aside to buy such boroughs as should voluntarily apply for disfranchisement.
The seats obtained were to be mainly added to county representation; but the franchise was
to be extended so as to add about 99,000 voters in boroughs, and additional seats were to be
given to London and Westminster and to Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham, and Sheffield. The Yorkshire
reformers, who led the movement, were satisfied with this modest scheme. The borough proprietors
were obviously too strong to be directly attacked, though they might be induced to sell some
of their power.

Here was a mass of anomalies, sufficient to supply topics of denunciation for two generations
of reformers, and, in time, to excite fears of violent revolution. Without undertaking the
easy task of denouncing exploded systems, we may ask what state of mind they implied. Our ancestors
were perfectly convinced that their political system was of almost unrivalled excellence: they
held that they were freemen entitled to look down upon foreigners as the slaves of despots.
Nor can we say that their satisfaction was without solid grounds. The boasting about English
freedom implied some misunderstanding. But it was at least the boast of a vigorous race. Not
only were there individuals capable of patriotism and public spirit, but the body politic was
capable of continuous energy. During the eighteenth century the British empire spread round
the world. Under Chatham it had been finally decided that the English race should be the dominant
element in the new world; if the political connection had been severed by the bungling of his
successors, the unbroken spirit of the nation had still been shown in the struggle against
France, Spain, and the revolted colonies; and whatever may be thought of the motives which
produced the great revolutionary wars, no one can deny the qualities of indomitable self-reliance
and high courage to the men who led the country through the twenty years of struggle against
France, and for a time against France with the continent at its feet. If moralists or political
theorists find much to condemn in the ends to which British policy was directed, they must
admit that the qualities displayed were not such as can belong to a simply corrupt and mean-spirited
government.

One obvious remark is that, on the whole, the system was a very good one--as systems go. It
allowed free play to the effective political forces. Down to the revolutionary period, the
nation as a whole was contented with its institutions. The political machinery provided a sufficient
channel for the really efficient force of public opinion. There was as yet no large class which
at once had political aspirations and was unable to gain a hearing. England was still in the
main an agricultural country: and the agricultural labourer was fairly prosperous till the
end of the century, while his ignorance and isolation made him indifferent to politics. There
might be a bad squire or parson, as there might be a bad season; but squire and parson were
as much parts of the natural order of things as the weather. The farmer or yeoman was not much
less stolid; and his politics meant at most a choice between allegiance to one or other of
the county families. If in the towns which were rapidly developing there was growing up a discontented
population, its discontent was not yet directed into political channels. An extended franchise
meant a larger expenditure on beer, not the readier acceptance of popular aspirations. To possess
a vote was to have a claim to an occasional bonus rather than a right to influence legislation.
Practically, therefore, parliament might be taken to represent what might be called 'public
opinion,' for anything that deserved to be called public opinion was limited to the opinions
of the gentry and the more intelligent part of the middle classes. There was no want of complaints
of corruption, proposals to exclude placemen from parliament and the like; and in the days
of Wilkes, Chatham, and Junius, when the first symptoms of democratic activity began to affect
the political movement, the discontent made itself audible and alarming. But a main characteristic
of the English reformers was the constant appeal to precedent, even in their most excited moods.
They do not mention the rights of man; they invoke the 'revolution principles' of 1688; they
insist upon the 'Bill of Rights' or Magna Charta. When keenly roused they recall the fate of
Charles I.; and their favourite toast is the cause for which Hampden died on the field and
Sidney on the scaffold. They believe in the jury as the 'palladium of our liberties'; and are
convinced that the British Constitution represents an unsurpassable though unfortunately an
ideal order of things, which must have existed at some indefinite period. Chatham in one of
his most famous speeches, appeals, for example, to the 'iron barons' who resisted King John,
and contrasts them with the silken courtiers which now compete for place and pensions. The
political reformers of the time, like religious reformers in most times, conceive of themselves
only as demanding the restoration of the system to its original purity, not as demanding its
abrogation. In other words, they propose to remedy abuses but do not as yet even contemplate
a really revolutionary change. Wilkes was not a 'Wilkite,' nor was any of his party, if Wilkite
meant anything like Jacobin.

NOTES:

[2] 22 George III. c. 82.

[3] Parl. Hist. xxx. 787.

[4] State Trials, xxiv. 382.

II. THE RULING CLASS

Thus, however anomalous the constitution of parliament, there was no thought of any far-reaching
revolution. The great mass of the population was too ignorant, too scattered and too poor to
have any real political opinions. So long as certain prejudices were not aroused, it was content
to leave the management of the state to the dominant class, which alone was intelligent enough
to take an interest in public affairs and strong enough to make its interest felt. This class
consisted in the first place of the great landed interest. When Lord North opposed Pitt's reform
in 1785 he said[5] that the Constitution was 'the work of infinite wisdom ... the most beautiful
fabric that had ever existed since the beginning of time.' He added that 'the bulk and weight'
of the house ought to be in 'the hands of the country-gentlemen, the best and most respectable
objects of the confidence of the people,' The speech, though intended to please an audience
of country-gentlemen, represented a genuine belief.[6] The country-gentlemen formed the class
to which not only the constitutional laws but the prevailing sentiment of the country gave
the lead in politics as in the whole social system. Even reformers proposed to improve the
House of Commons chiefly by increasing the number of county-members, and a county-member was
almost necessarily a country-gentleman of an exalted kind. Although the country-gentleman was
very far from having all things his own way, his ideals and prejudices were in a great degree
the mould to which the other politically important class conformed. There was indeed a growing
jealousy between the landholders and the 'monied-men.' Bolingbroke had expressed this distrust
at an earlier part of the century. But the true representative of the period was his successful
rival, Walpole, a thorough country-gentleman who had learned to understand the mysteries of
finance and acquired the confidence of the city. The great merchants of London and the rising
manufacturers in the country were rapidly growing in wealth and influence. The monied-men represented
the most active, energetic, and growing part of the body politic. Their interests determined
the direction of the national policy. The great wars of the century were undertaken in the
interests of British trade. The extension of the empire in India was carried on through a great
commercial company. The growth of commerce supported the sea-power which was the main factor
in the development of the empire. The new industrial organisation which was arising was in
later years to represent a class distinctly opposed to the old aristocratic order. At present
it was in a comparatively subordinate position. The squire was interested in the land and the
church; the merchant thought more of commerce and was apt to be a dissenter. But the merchant,
in spite of some little jealousies, admitted the claims of the country-gentleman to be his
social superior and political leader. His highest ambition was to be himself admitted to the
class or to secure the admission of his family. As he became rich he bought a solid mansion
at Clapham or Wimbledon, and, if he made a fortune, might become lord of manors in the country.
He could not as yet aspire to become himself a peer, but he might be the ancestor of peers.
The son of Josiah Child, the great merchant of the seventeenth century, became Earl Tylney,
and built at Wanstead one of the noblest mansions in England. His contemporary Sir Francis
Child, Lord Mayor, and a founder of the Bank of England, built Osterley House, and was ancestor
of the earls of Jersey and Westmoreland. The daughter of Sir John Barnard, the typical merchant
of Walpole's time, married the second Lord Palmerston. Beckford, the famous Lord Mayor of Chatham's
day, was father of the author of Vathek, who married an earl's daughter and became the father
of a duchess. The Barings, descendants of a German pastor, settled in England early in the
century and became country-gentlemen, baronets, and peers. Cobbett, who saw them rise, reviled
the stockjobbers who were buying out the old families. But the process had begun long before
his days, and meant that the heads of the new industrial system were being absorbed into the
class of territorial magnates. That class represented the framework upon which both political
and social power was moulded.

This implies an essential characteristic of the time. A familiar topic of the admirers of the
British Constitution was the absence of the sharp lines of demarcation between classes and
of the exclusive aristocratic privileges which, in France, provoked the revolution. In England
the ruling class was not a 'survival': it had not retained privileges without discharging corresponding
functions. The essence of 'self-government,' says its most learned commentator,[7] is the organic
connection 'between State and society.' On the Continent, that is, powers were intrusted to
a centralised administrative and judicial hierarchy, which in England were left to the class
independently strong by its social position. The landholder was powerful as a product of the
whole system of industrial and agricultural development; and he was bound in return to perform
arduous and complicated duties. How far he performed them well is another question. At least,
he did whatever was done in the way of governing, and therefore did not sink into a mere excrescence
or superfluity. I must try to point out certain results which had a material effect upon English
opinion in general and, in particular, upon the Utilitarians.

NOTES:

[5] Parl. Hist. xxv. 472.

[6] The country-gentlemen, said Wilberforce in 1800, are the 'very nerves and ligatures of
the body politic.'--Correspondence, i. 219.

[7] Gneist's Self-Government (3rd edition, 1871), p. 879.

III. LEGISLATION AND ADMINISTRATION

The country-gentlemen formed the bulk of the law-making body, and the laws gave the first point
of assault of the Utilitarian movement. One explanation is suggested by a phrase attributed
to Sir Josiah Child.[8] The laws, he said, were a heap of nonsense, compiled by a few ignorant
country-gentlemen, who hardly knew how to make good laws for the government of their own families,
much less for the regulation of companies and foreign commerce. He meant that the parliamentary
legislation of the century was the work of amateurs, not of specialists; of an assembly of
men more interested in immediate questions of policy or personal intrigue than in general principles,
and not of such a centralised body as would set a value upon symmetry and scientific precision.
The country-gentleman had strong prejudices and enough common sense to recognise his own ignorance.
The product of a traditional order, he clung to traditions, and regarded the old maxims as
sacred because no obvious reason could be assigned for them. He was suspicious of abstract
theories, and it did not even occur to him that any such process as codification or radical
alteration of the laws was conceivable. For the law itself he had the profound veneration which
is expressed by Blackstone. It represented the 'wisdom of our ancestors'; the system of first
principles, on which the whole order of things reposed, and which must be regarded as an embodiment
of right reason. The common law was a tradition, not made by express legislation, but somehow
existing apart from any definite embodiment, and revealed to certain learned hierophants. Any
changes, required by the growth of new social conditions, had to be made under pretence of
applying the old rules supposed to be already in existence. Thus grew up the system of 'judge-made
law,' which was to become a special object of the denunciations of Bentham. Child had noticed
the incompetence of the country-gentlemen to understand the regulation of commercial affairs.
The gap was being filled up, without express legislation, by judicial interpretations of Mansfield
and his fellows. This, indeed, marks a characteristic of the whole system. 'Our constitution,'
says Professor Dicey,[9] 'is a judge-made constitution, and it bears on its face all the features,
good and bad, of judge-made law.' The law of landed property, meanwhile, was of vital and immediate
interest to the country-gentleman. But, feeling his own incompetence, he had called in the
aid of the expert. The law had been developed in mediæval times, and bore in all its details
the marks of the long series of struggles between king and nobles and parliaments. One result
had been the elaborate series of legal fictions worked out in the conflict between private
interests and public policy, by which lawyers had been able to adapt the rules fitted for an
ancient state of society to another in which the very fundamental conceptions were altered.
A mysterious system had thus grown up, which deterred any but the most resolute students. Of
Fearne's essay upon 'Contingent remainders'(published in 1772) it was said that no work 'in
any branch of science could afford a more beautiful instance of analysis.' Fearne had shown
the acuteness of 'a Newton or a Pascal.' Other critics dispute this proposition; but in any
case the law was so perplexing that it could only be fully understood by one who united antiquarian
knowledge to the subtlety of a great logician. The 'vast and intricate machine,' as Blackstone
calls it, 'of a voluminous family settlement' required for its explanation the dialectical
skill of an accomplished schoolman. The poor country-gentleman could not understand the terms
on which he held his own estate without calling in an expert equal to such a task. The man
who has acquired skill so essential to his employer's interests is not likely to undervalue
it or to be over anxious to simplify the labyrinth in which he shone as a competent guide.

The lawyers who played so important a part by their familiarity with the mysteries of commercial
law and landed property, naturally enjoyed the respect of their clients, and were rewarded
by adoption into the class. The English barrister aspired to success by himself taking part
in politics and legislation. The only path to the highest positions really open to a man of
ability, not connected by blood with the great families, was the path which led to the woolsack
or to the judge's bench. A great merchant might be the father or father-in-law of peers; a
successful soldier or sailor might himself become a peer, but generally he began life as a
member of the ruling classes, and his promotion was affected by parliamentary influence. But
a successful lawyer might fight his way from a humble position to the House of Lords. Thurlow,
son of a country-gentleman; Dunning, son of a country attorney; Ellenborough, son of a bishop
and descendant of a long line of North-country 'statesmen'; Kenyon, son of a farmer; Eldon,
son of a Newcastle coal merchant, represent the average career of a successful barrister. Some
of them rose to be men of political importance, and Thurlow and Eldon had the advantage of
keeping George III's conscience--an unruly faculty which had an unfortunately strong influence
upon affairs. The leaders of the legal profession, therefore, and those who hoped to be leaders,
shared the prejudices, took a part in the struggles, and were rewarded by the honours of the
dominant class.

The criminal law became a main topic of reformers. There, as elsewhere, we have a striking
example of traditional modes of thought surviving with singular persistence. The rough classification
of crimes into felony and misdemeanour, and the strange technical rules about 'benefit of clergy'
dating back to the struggles of Henry II. and Becket, remained like ultimate categories of
thought. When the growth of social conditions led to new temptations or the appearance of a
new criminal class, and particular varieties of crime became conspicuous, the only remedy was
to declare that some offence should be 'felony without benefit of clergy,' and therefore punishable
by death. By unsystematic and spasmodic legislation the criminal law became so savage as to
shock every man of common humanity. It was tempered by the growth of technical rules, which
gave many chances of escape to the criminal; and by practical revolt against its excesses,
which led to the remission of the great majority of capital sentences.[10] The legislators
were clumsy, not intentionally cruel; and the laws, though sanguinary in reality, were more
sanguinary in theory than in practice. Nothing, on the other hand, is more conspicuous than
the spirit of fair play to the criminal, which struck foreign observers.[11] It was deeply
rooted in the whole system. The English judge was not an official agent of an inquisitorial
system, but an impartial arbitrator between the prisoner and the prosecutor. In political cases
especially a marked change was brought about by the revolution of 1688. If our ancestors talked
some nonsense about trial by jury, the system certainly insured that the persons accused of
libel or sedition should have a fair trial, and very often something more. Judges of the Jeffreys
type had become inconceivable, though impartiality might disappear in cases where the prejudices
of juries were actively aroused. Englishmen might fairly boast of their immunity from the arbitrary
methods of continental rulers; and their unhesitating confidence in the fairness of the system
became so ingrained as to be taken as a matter of course, and scarcely received due credit
from later critics of the system.

The country-gentleman, again, was not only the legislator but a most important figure in the
judicial and administrative system. As justice of the peace, he was the representative of law
and order to his country neighbours. The preface of 1785 to the fifteenth edition of Burn's
Justice of the Peace, published originally in 1755, mentions that in the interval between these
dates, some three hundred statutes had been passed affecting the duties of justices, while
half as many had been repealed or modified. The justice was of course, as a rule, a superficial
lawyer, and had to be prompted by his clerk, the two representing on a small scale the general
relation between the lawyers and the ruling class. Burn tells the justice for his comfort that
the judges will take a lenient view of any errors into which his ignorance may have led him.
The discharge of such duties by an independent gentleman was thought to be so desirable and
so creditable to him that his want of efficiency must be regarded with consideration. Nor,
though the justices have been a favourite butt for satirists, does it appear that the system
worked badly. When it became necessary to appoint paid magistrates in London, and the pay,
according to the prevalent system, was provided by fees, the new officials became known as
'trading justices,' and their salaries, as Fielding tells us, were some of the 'dirtiest money
upon earth.' The justices might perhaps be hard upon a poacher (as, indeed, the game laws became
one of the great scandals of the system), or liable to be misled by a shrewd attorney; but
they were on the whole regarded as the natural and creditable representatives of legal authority
in the country.

The justices, again, discharged functions which would elsewhere belong to an administrative
hierarchy, Gneist observes that the power of the justices of the peace represents the centre
of gravity of the whole administrative system.[12] Their duties had become so multifarious
and perplexed that Burn could only arrange them under alphabetical heads. Gneist works out
a systematic account, filling many pages of elaborate detail, and showing how large a part
they played in the whole social structure. An intense jealousy of central power was one correlative
characteristic. Blackstone remarks in his more liberal humour that the number of new offices
held at pleasure had greatly extended the influence of the crown. This refers to the custom-house
officers, excise officers, stamp distributors and postmasters. But if the tax-gatherer represented
the state, he represented also part of the patronage at the disposal of politicians. A voter
was often in search of the place of a 'tidewaiter'; and, as we know, the greatest poet of the
day could only be rewarded by making him an exciseman. Any extension of a system which multiplied
public offices was regarded with suspicion. Walpole, the strongest minister of the century,
had been forced to an ignominious retreat when he proposed to extend the excise. The cry arose
that he meant to enslave the country and extend the influence of the crown over all the corporations
in England. The country-gentleman had little reason to fear that government would diminish
his importance by tampering with his functions. The justices of the peace were called upon
to take a great and increasing share in the administration of the poor-law. They were concerned
in all manner of financial details; they regulated such police as existed; they looked after
the old laws by which the trades were still restricted; and, in theory at least, could fix
the rate of wages. Parliament did not override, but only gave the necessary sanction to their
activity. If we looked through the journals of the House of Commons during the American War,
for example, we should get the impression that the whole business of the legislature was to
arrange administrative details. If a waste was to be enclosed, a canal or a highroad to be
constructed, there was no public department to be consulted. The gentry of the neighbourhood
joined to obtain a private act of parliament which gave the necessary powers to the persons
interested. No general enclosure act could be passed, though often suggested. It would imply
a central commission, which would only, as was suggested, give rise to jobbery and take power
out of the natural hands. Parliament was omnipotent; it could regulate the affairs of the empire
or of a parish; alter the most essential laws or act as a court of justice; settle the crown
or arrange for a divorce or for the alteration of a private estate. But it objected to delegate
authority even to a subordinate body, which might tend to become independent. Thus, if it was
the central power and source of all legal authority, it might also be regarded as a kind of
federal league, representing the wills of a number of partially independent persons. The gentry
could meet there and obtain the sanction of their allies for any measure required in their
own little sphere of influence. But they had an instinctive aversion to the formation of any
organised body representing the state. The neighbourhood which wanted a road got powers to
make it, and would concur in giving powers to others. But if the state were to be intrusted
to make roads, ministers would have more places to give, and roads might be made which they
did not want. The English roads had long been infamous, but neither was money wasted, as in
France, on roads where there was no traffic.[13] Thus we have the combination of an absolute
centralisation of legislative power with an utter absence of administrative centralisation.
The units meeting in parliament formed a supreme assembly; but they did not sink their own
individuality. They only met to distribute the various functions among themselves.

The English parish with its squire, its parson, its lawyer and its labouring population was
a miniature of the British Constitution in general. The squire's eldest son could succeed to
his position; a second son might become a general or an admiral; a third would take the family
living; a fourth, perhaps, seek his fortune at the bar. This implies a conception of other
political conditions which curiously illustrate some contemporary conceptions.

NOTES:

[8] See Dictionary of National Biography.

[9] The Law of the Constitution, p. 209.

[10] See Sir J. F. Stephen's History of the Criminal Law (1883), i. 470. He quotes Blackstone's
famous statement that there were 160 felonies without benefit of clergy, and shows that this
gives a very uncertain measure of the severity of the law. A single act making larceny in general
punishable by death would be more severe than fifty separate acts, making fifty different varieties
of larceny punishable by death. He adds, however, that the scheme of punishment was 'severe
to the highest degree, and destitute of every sort of principle or system.' The number of executions
in the early part of this century varied apparently from a fifth to a ninth of the capital
sentences passed. See Table in Porter's Progress of the Nation (1851), p. 635.

[11] See the references to Cottu's report of 1822 in Stephen's History, i. 429, 439, 451. Cottu's
book was translated by Blanco White.

[12] Gneist's Self-Government (1871), p. 194. It is characteristic that J. S. Mill, in his
Representative Government, remarks that the 'Quarter Sessions' are formed in the 'most anomalous'
way; that they represent the old feudal principle, and are at variance with the fundamental
principles of representative government (Rep. Gov. (1867), p. 113). The mainspring of the old
system had become a simple anomaly to the new radicalism.

[13] See Arthur Young, passim. There was, however, an improvement even in the first half of
the century. See Cunningham's Growth of English Industry, etc. (Modern Times), p. 378.

IV. THE ARMY AND NAVY

We are often amused by the persistency of the cry against a 'standing army' in England. It
did not fairly die out until the revolutionary wars. A standing army was obviously necessary;
but by making believe very hard, we could shut our eyes to the facts, and pretend that it was
a merely temporary arrangement.[14] The doctrine had once had a very intelligible meaning.
If James II. had possessed a disciplined army of the continental pattern, with Marlborough
at its head, Marlborough would hardly have been converted by the prince of Orange. But loyal
as the gentry had been at the restoration, they had taken very good care that the Stuarts should
not have in their hand such a weapon as had been possessed by Cromwell. When the Puritan army
was disbanded, they had proceeded to regulate the militia. The officers were appointed by the
lords-lieutenants of counties, and had to possess a property qualification; the men raised
by ballot in their own districts; and their numbers and length of training regulated by Act
of Parliament. The old 'train-bands' were suppressed, except in the city of London, and thus
the recognised military force of the country was a body essentially dependent upon the country
gentry. The militia was regarded with favour as the 'old constitutional force' which could
not be used to threaten our liberties. It was remodelled during the Seven Years' War and embodied
during that and all our later wars. It was, however, ineffective by its very nature. An aristocracy
which chose to carry on wars must have a professional army in fact, however careful it might
be to pretend that it was a provision for a passing necessity. The pretence had serious consequences.
Since the army was not to have interests separate from the people, there was no reason for
building barracks. The men might be billeted on publicans, or placed under canvas, while they
were wanted. When the great war came upon us, large sums had to be spent to make up for the
previous neglect. Fox, on 22nd February 1793, protested during a lively debate upon this subject
that sound constitutional principles condemned barracks, because to mix the army with the people
was the 'best security against the danger of a standing army.'[15]

In fact a large part of the army was a mere temporary force. In 1762, towards the end of the
Seven Years' War, we had about 100,000 men in pay; and after the peace, the force was reduced
to under 20,000. Similar changes took place in every war. The ruling class took advantage of
the position. An army might be hired from Germany for the occasion. New regiments were generally
raised by some great man who gave commissions to his own relations and dependants. When the
Pretender was in Scotland, for example, fifteen regiments were raised by patriotic nobles,
who gave the commissions, and stipulated that although they were to be employed only in suppressing
the rising, the officers should have permanent rank.[16] So, as was shown in Mrs. Clarke's
case, a patent for raising a regiment might be a source of profit to the undertaker, who again
might get it by bribing the mistress of a royal duke. The officers had, according to the generally
prevalent system, a modified property in their commissions; and the system of sale was not
abolished till our own days. We may therefore say that the ruling class, on the one hand, objected
to a standing army, and, on the other, since such an army was a necessity, farmed it from the
country and were admitted to have a certain degree of private property in the concern. The
prejudice against any permanent establishment made it necessary to fill the ranks on occasion
by all manner of questionable expedients. Bounties were offered to attract the vagrants who
hung loose upon society. Smugglers, poachers, and the like were allowed to choose between military
service and transportation. The general effect was to provide an army of blackguards commanded
by gentlemen. The army no doubt had its merits as well as its defects. The continental armies
which it met were collected by equally demoralising methods until the French revolution led
to a systematic conscription. The bad side is suggested by Napier's famous phrase, the 'cold
shade of our aristocracy'; while Napier gives facts enough to prove both the brutality too
often shown by the private soldier and the dogged courage which is taken to be characteristic
even of the English blackguard. By others,--by such men as the duke of Wellington and Lord
Palmerston, for example, types of the true aristocrat--the system was defended[17] as bringing
men of good family into the army and so providing it, as the duke thought, with the best set
of officers in Europe. No doubt they and the royal dukes who commanded them were apt to be
grossly ignorant of their business; but it may be admitted by a historian that they often showed
the qualities of which Wellington was himself a type. The English officer was a gentleman before
he was a soldier, and considered the military virtues to be a part of his natural endowment.
But it was undoubtedly a part of his traditional code of honour to do his duty manfully and
to do it rather as a manifestation of his own spirit than from any desire for rewards or decorations.
The same quality is represented more strikingly by the navy. The English admiral represents
the most attractive and stirring type of heroism in our history. Nelson and the 'band of brothers'
who served with him, the simple and high-minded sailors who summed up the whole duty of man
in doing their best to crush the enemies of their country, are among the finest examples of
single-souled devotion to the calls of patriotism. The navy, indeed, had its ugly side no less
than the army. There was corruption at Greenwich[18] and in the dockyards, and parliamentary
intrigue was a road to professional success. Voltaire notes the queer contrast between the
English boast of personal liberty and the practice of filling up the crews by pressgangs. The
discipline was often barbarous, and the wrongs of the common sailor found sufficient expression
in the mutiny at the Nore. A grievance, however, which pressed upon a single class was maintained
from the necessity of the case and the inertness of the administrative system. The navy did
not excite the same jealousy as the army; and the officers were more professionally skilful
than their brethren. The national qualities come out, often in their highest form, in the race
of great seamen upon whom the security of the island power essentially depended.

NOTES:

[14] See Military Forces of the Crown, by Charles M. Clode (1869), for a full account of the facts.

[15] Parl. Hist. xxx. 490. Clode states (i. 222) that £9,000,000 was spent upon barracks by
1804, and, it seems, without proper authority.

[16] Debate in Parl. Hist. xiii. 1382, etc., and see Walpole's Correspondence, i. 400, for
some characteristic comments.

[17] Clode, ii. 86.

[18] See the famous case in 1778 in which Erskine made his first appearance, in State Trials,
xxi. Lord St. Vincent's struggle against the corruption of his time is described by Prof. Laughton
in the Dictionary of National Biography, (s.v. Sir John Jervis). In 1801 half a million a year
was stolen, besides all the waste due to corruption and general muddling.

V. THE CHURCH

I turn, however, to the profession which was more directly connected with the intellectual
development of the country. The nature of the church establishment gives the most obvious illustration
of the connection between the intellectual position on the one hand and the social and political
order on the other, though I do not presume to decide how far either should be regarded as
effect and the other as cause.

What is the church of England? Some people apparently believe that it is a body possessing
and transmitting certain supernatural powers. This view was in abeyance for the time for excellent
reasons, and, true or false, is no answer to the constitutional question. It does not enable
us to define what was the actual body with which lawyers and politicians have to deal. The
best answer to such questions in ordinary case would be given by describing the organisation
of the body concerned. We could then say what is the authority which speaks in its name; and
what is the legislature which makes its laws, alters its arrangements, and defines the terms
of membership. The supreme legislature of the church of England might appear to be parliament.
It is the Act of Uniformity which defines the profession of belief exacted from the clergy;
and no alteration could be made in regard to the rights and duties of the clergy except by
parliamentary authority. The church might therefore be regarded as simply the religious department
of the state. Since 1688, however, the theory and the practice of toleration had introduced
difficulties. Nonconformity was not by itself punishable though it exposed a man to certain
disqualifications. The state, therefore, recognised that many of its members might legally
belong to other churches, although it had, as Warburton argued, formed an 'alliance' with the
dominant church. The spirit of toleration was spreading throughout the century. The old penal
laws, due to the struggles of the seventeenth century, were becoming obsolete in practice and
were gradually being repealed. The Gordon riots of 1780 showed that a fanatical spirit might
still be aroused in a mob which wanted an excuse for plunder; but the laws were not explicitly
defended by reasonable persons and were being gradually removed by legislation towards the
end of the century. Although, therefore, parliament was kept free from papists, it could hardly
regard church and state as identical, or consider itself as entitled to act as the representative
body of the church. No other body, indeed, could change the laws of the church; but parliament
recognised its own incompetence to deal with them. Towards the end of the century, various
attempts were made to relax the terms of subscription. It was proposed, for example, to substitute
a profession of belief in the Bible for a subscription to the Thirty-Nine Articles. But the
House of Commons sensibly refused to expose itself by venturing upon any theological innovations.
A body more ludicrously incompetent could hardly have been invented.

Hence we must say that the church had either no supreme body which could speak in its name
and modify its creed, its ritual, its discipline, or the details of its organisation; or else,
that the only body which had in theory a right to interfere was doomed, by sufficient considerations,
to absolute inaction. The church, from a secular point of view, was not so much a department
of the state as an aggregate of offices, the functions of which were prescribed by unalterable
tradition. It consisted of a number of bishops, deans and chapters, rectors, vicars, curates,
and so forth, many of whom had certain proprietary rights in their position, and who were bound
by law to discharge certain functions. But the church, considered as a whole, could hardly
be called an organism at all, or, if an organism, it was an organism with its central organ
in a permanent state of paralysis. The church, again, in this state was essentially dependent
upon the ruling classes. A glance at the position of the clergy shows their professional position.
At their head were the bishops, some of them enjoying princely revenues, while others were
so poor as to require that their incomes should be eked out by deaneries or livings held in
commendam. The great sees, such as Canterbury, Durham, Ely, and Winchester, were valued at
between, £20,000 and £30,000 a year; while the smaller, Llandaff, Bangor, Bristol, and Gloucester,
were worth less than £2000. The bishops had patronage which enabled them to provide for relatives
or for deserving clergymen. The average incomes of the parochial clergy, meanwhile, were small.
In 1809 they were calculated to be worth £255, while nearly four thousand livings were worth
under £150; and there were four or five thousand curates with very small pay. The profession,
therefore, offered a great many blanks with a few enormous prizes. How were those prizes generally
obtained? When the reformers published the Black Book in 1820, they gave a list of the bishops
holding sees in the last year of George III.; and, as most of these gentlemen were on their
promotion at the end of the previous century. I give the list in a note.[19]

There were twenty-seven bishoprics including Sodor and Man. Of these eleven were held by members
of noble families; fourteen were held by men who had been tutors in, or in other ways personally
connected with the royal family or the families of ministers and great men; and of the remaining
two, one rested his claim upon political writing in defence of Pitt, while the other seems
to have had the support of a great city company. The system of translation enabled the government
to keep a hand upon the bishops. Their elevation to the more valuable places or leave to hold
subsidiary preferments depended upon their votes in the House of Lords. So far, then, as secular
motives operated, the tendency of the system was clear. If Providence had assigned to you a
duke for a father or an uncle, preferment would fall to you as of right. A man of rank who
takes orders should be rewarded for his condescension. If that qualification be not secured,
you should aim at being tutor in a great family, accompany a lad on the grand tour, or write
some pamphlet on a great man's behalf. Paley gained credit for independence at Cambridge, and
spoke with contempt of the practice of 'rooting,' the cant phrase for patronage hunting. The
text which he facetiously suggested for a sermon when Pitt visited Cambridge, 'There is a young
man here who has six loaves and two fishes, but what are they among so many?' hit off the spirit
in which a minister was regarded at the universities. The memoirs of Bishop Watson illustrate
the same sentiment. He lived in his pleasant country house at Windermere, never visiting his
diocese, and according to De Quincey, talking Socinianism at his table. He felt himself to
be a deeply injured man, because ministers had never found an opportunity for translating him
to a richer diocese, although he had written against Paine and Gibbon. If they would not reward
their friends, he argued, why should he take up their cause by defending Christianity?

The bishops were eminently respectable. They did not lead immoral lives, and if they gave a
large share of preferment to their families, that at least was a domestic virtue. Some of them,
Bishop Barrington of Durham, for example, took a lead in philanthropic movements; and, if considered
simply as prosperous country-gentlemen, little fault could be found with them. While, however,
every commonplace motive pointed so directly towards a career of subserviency to the ruling
class among the laity, it could not be expected that they should take a lofty view of their
profession. The Anglican clergy were not like the Irish priesthood, in close sympathy with
the peasantry, or like the Scottish ministers, the organs of strong convictions spreading through
the great mass of the middle and lower classes. A man of energy, who took his faith seriously,
was, like the Evangelical clergy, out of the road to preferment, or, like Wesley, might find
no room within the church at all. His colleagues called him an 'enthusiast,' and disliked him
as a busybody if not a fanatic. They were by birth and adoption themselves members of the ruling
class; many of them were the younger sons of squires, and held their livings in virtue of their
birth. Advowsons are the last offices to retain a proprietary character. The church of that
day owed such a representative as Horne Tooke to the system which enabled his father to provide
for him by buying a living. From the highest to the lowest ranks of clergy, the church was
as Matthew Arnold could still call it, an 'appendage of the barbarians.' The clergy, that is,
as a whole, were an integral but a subsidiary part of the aristocracy or the great landed interest.
Their admirers urged that the system planted a cultivated gentleman in every parish in the
country. Their opponents replied, like John Sterling, that he was a 'black dragoon with horse
meat and man's meat'--part of the garrison distributed through the country to support the cause
of property and order. In any case the instinctive prepossessions, the tastes and favourite
pursuits of the profession were essentially those of the class with which it was so intimately
connected. Arthur Young,[20] speaking of the French clergy, observes that at least they are
not poachers and foxhunters, who divide their time between hunting, drinking, and preaching.
You do not in France find such advertisements as he had heard of in England, 'Wanted a curacy
in a good sporting country, where the duty is light and the neighbourhood convivial.' The proper
exercise for a country clergyman, he rather quaintly observes, is agriculture. The ideal parson,
that is, should be a squire in canonical dress. The clergy of the eighteenth century probably
varied between the extremes represented by Trulliber and the Vicar of Wakefield. Many of them
were excellent people, with a mild taste for literature, contributing to the Gentleman's Magazine,
investigating the antiquities of their county, occasionally confuting a deist, exerting a sound
judgment in cultivating their glebes or improving the breed of cattle, and respected both by
squire and farmers. The 'Squarson,' in Sydney Smith's facetious phrase, was the ideal clergyman.
The purely sacerdotal qualities, good or bad, were at a minimum. Crabbe, himself a type of
the class, has left admirable portraits of his fellows. Profound veneration for his noble patrons
and hearty dislike for intrusive dissenters were combined in his own case with a pure domestic
life, a keen insight into the uglier realities of country life and a good sound working morality.
Miss Austen, who said that she could have been Crabbe's wife, has given more delicate pictures
of the clergyman as he appeared at the tea-tables of the time. He varies according to her from
the squire's excellent younger brother, who is simply a squire in a white neck-cloth, to the
silly but still respectable sycophant, who firmly believes his lady patroness to be a kind
of local deity. Many of the real memoirs of the day give pleasant examples of the quiet and
amiable lives of the less ambitious clergy. There is the charming Gilbert White (1720-1793)
placidly studying the ways of tortoises, and unconsciously composing a book which breathes
an undying charm from its atmosphere of peaceful repose; William Gilpin (1724-1804) founding
and endowing parish schools, teaching the catechism, and describing his vacation tours in narratives
which helped to spread a love of natural scenery; and Thomas Gisborne (1758-1846), squire and
clergyman, a famous preacher among the evangelicals and a poet after the fashion of Cowper,
who loved his native Needwood Forest as White loved Selborne and Gilpin loved the woods of
Boldre; and Cowper himself (1731-1800) who, though not a clergyman, lived in a clerical atmosphere,
and whose gentle and playful enjoyment of quiet country life relieves the painfully deep pathos
of his disordered imagination; and the excellent W. L. Bowles (1762-1850), whose sonnets first
woke Coleridge's imagination, who spent eighty-eight years in an amiable and blameless life,
and was country-gentleman, magistrate, antiquary, clergyman, and poet.[21] Such names are enough
to recall a type which has not quite vanished, and which has gathered a new charm in more stirring
and fretful times. These most excellent people, however, were not likely to be prominent in
movements destined to break up the placid environment of their lives nor, in truth, to be sources
of any great intellectual stir.

NOTES:

[19] The list, checked from other sources of information, is as follows:--Manners Sutton, archbishop
of Canterbury, was grandson of the third duke of Rutland; Edward Vernon, archbishop of York,
was son of the first Lord Vernon and cousin of the third Lord Harcourt, whose estates he inherited;
Shute Barrington, bishop of Durham, was son of the first and brother of the second Viscount
Barrington; Brownlow North, bishop of Winchester, was uncle to the earl of Guildford; James
Cornwallis, bishop of Lichfield, was uncle to the second marquis, whose peerage he inherited;
George Pelham, bishop of Exeter, was brother of the earl of Chichester; Henry Bathurst, bishop
of Norwich, was nephew of the first earl; George Henry Law, bishop of Chester, was brother
of the first Lord Ellenborough; Edward Legge, bishop of Oxford, was son of the second earl
of Dartmouth; Henry Ryder, bishop of Gloucester, was brother to the earl of Harrowby; George
Murray, bishop of Sodor and Man, was nephew-in-law to the duke of Athol and brother-in-law
to the earl of Kinnoul. Of the fourteen tutors, etc., mentioned above, William Howley, bishop
of London, had been tutor to the prince of Orange at Oxford; George Pretyman Tomline, bishop
of Lincoln, had been Pitt's tutor at Cambridge; Richard Beadon, bishop of Bath and Wells, had
been tutor to the duke of Gloucester at Cambridge; Folliott Cornewall, bishop of Worcester,
had been made chaplain to the House of Commons by the influence of his cousin, the Speaker;
John Buckner, bishop of Chichester, had been tutor to the duke of Richmond; Henry William Majendie,
bishop of Bangor, was the son of Queen Charlotte's English master, and had been tutor to William
IV.; George Isaac Huntingford, bishop of Hereford, had been tutor to Addington, prime minister;
Thomas Burgess, bishop of St. David's, was a personal friend of Addington; John Fisher, bishop
of Salisbury, had been tutor to the duke of Kent; John Luxmoore, bishop of St. Asaph, had been
tutor to the duke of Buccleugh; Samuel Goodenough, bishop of Carlisle, had been tutor to the
sons of the third duke of Portland and was connected with Addington; William Lort Mansel, bishop
of Bristol, had been tutor to Perceval at Cambridge, and owed to Perceval the mastership of
Trinity; Walter King, bishop of Rochester, had been secretary to the duke of Portland; and
Bowyer Edward Sparke, bishop of Ely, had been tutor to the duke of Rutland. The two remaining
bishops were Herbert Marsh, bishop of Peterborough, who had established a claim by defending
Pitt's financial measures in an important pamphlet; and William Van Mildert, bishop of Llandaff,
who had been chaplain to the Grocers' Company and became known as a preacher in London.

[20] Travels in France (1892), p. 327.

[21] See A Country Clergyman of the Eighteenth Century (Thomas Twining), 1882, for a pleasant
picture of the class.

VI. THE UNIVERSITIES

The effect of these conditions is perhaps best marked in the state of the universities. Universities
have at different periods been great centres of intellectual life. The English universities
of the eighteenth century are generally noted only as embodiments of sloth and prejudice. The
judgments of Wesley and Gibbon and Adam Smith and Bentham coincide in regard to Oxford; and
Johnson's love of his university is an equivocal testimony to its intellectual merits. We generally
think of it as of a sleepy hollow, in which portly fellows of colleges, like the convivial
Warton, imbibed port wine and sneered at Methodists, though few indeed rivalled Warton's services
to literature. The universities in fact had become, as they long continued to be, high schools
chiefly for the use of the clergy, and if they still aimed at some wider intellectual training,
were sinking to be institutions where the pupils of the public schools might, if they pleased,
put a little extra polish upon their classical and mathematical knowledge. The colleges preserved
their mediæval constitution; and no serious changes of their statutes were made until the middle
of the present century. The clergy had an almost exclusive part in the management, and dissenters
were excluded even from entering Oxford as students.[22] But the clergyman did not as a rule
devote himself to a life of study. He could not marry as a fellow, but he made no vows of celibacy.
The college, therefore, was merely a stepping-stone on the way to the usual course of preferment.
A fellow looked forwards to settling in a college living, or if he had the luck to act as tutor
to a nobleman, he might soar to a deanery or a bishopric. The fellows who stayed in their colleges
were probably those who had least ambition, or who had a taste for an easy bachelor's life.
The universities, therefore, did not form bodies of learned men interested in intellectual
pursuits; but at most, helped such men in their start upon a more prosperous career. The studies
flagged in sympathy. Gray's letters sufficiently reveal the dulness which was felt by a man
of cultivation confined within the narrow society of college dons of the day. The scholastic
philosophy which had once found enthusiastic cultivators in the great universities had more
or less held its own through the seventeenth century, though repudiated by all the rising thinkers.
Since the days of Locke and Berkeley, it had fallen utterly out of credit. The bright common
sense of the polished society of the day looked upon the old doctrine with a contempt, which,
if not justified by familiarity, was an implicit judgment of the tree by its fruits. Nobody
could suppose the divines of the day to be the depositaries of an esoteric wisdom which the
vulgar were not worthy to criticise. They were themselves chiefly anxious to prove that their
sacred mysteries were really not at all mysterious, but merely one way of expressing plain
common sense. At Oxford, indeed, the lads were still crammed with Aldrich, and learned the
technical terms of a philosophy which had ceased to have any real life in it. At Cambridge,
ardent young radicals spoke with contempt of this 'horrid jargon--fit only to be chattered
by monkies in a wilderness.'[23] Even at Cambridge, they still had disputations on the old
form, but they argued theses from Locke's essay, and thought that their mathematical studies
were a check upon metaphysical 'jargon.' It is indeed characteristic of the respect for tradition
that at Cambridge even mathematics long suffered from a mistaken patriotism which resented
any improvement upon the methods of Newton. There were some signs of reviving activity. The
fellowships were being distributed with less regard to private interest. The mathematical tripos
founded at Cambridge in the middle of the century became the prototype of all competitive examinations;
and half a century later Oxford followed the precedent by the Examination Statute of 1800.
A certain number of professorships of such modern studies as anatomy, history, botany, and
geology were founded during the eighteenth century, and show a certain sense of a need of broader
views. The lectures upon which Blackstone founded his commentaries were the product of the
foundation of the Vinerian professorship in 1751; and the most recent of the Cambridge colleges,
Downing College, shows by its constitution that a professoriate was now considered to be desirable.
Cambridge in the last years of the century might have had a body of very eminent professors.
Watson, second wrangler of 1759, had delivered lectures upon chemistry, of which it was said
by Davy that hardly any conceivable change in the science could make them obsolete.[24] Paley,
senior wrangler in 1763, was an almost unrivalled master of lucid exposition, and one of his
works is still a textbook at Cambridge. Isaac Milner, senior wrangler in 1774, afterwards held
the professorships of mathematics and natural philosophy, and was famous as a sort of ecclesiastical
Dr. Johnson. Gilbert Wakefield, second wrangler in 1776, published an edition of Lucretius,
and was a man of great ability and energy. Herbert Marsh, second wrangler in 1779, was divinity
professor from 1807, and was the first English writer to introduce some knowledge of the early
stages of German criticism. Porson, the greatest Greek scholar of his time, became professor
in 1790; Malthus, ninth wrangler in 1788, who was to make a permanent mark upon political economy,
became fellow of Jesus College in 1793. Waring, senior wrangler in 1757, Vince, senior wrangler
in 1775, and Wollaston, senior wrangler in 1783, were also professors and mathematicians of
reputation. Towards the end of the century ten professors were lecturing.[25] A large number
were not lecturing, though Milner was good enough to be 'accessible to students.' Paley and
Watson had been led off into the path of ecclesiastical preferment. Marsh too became a bishop
in 1816. There was no place for such talents as those of Malthus, who ultimately became professor
at Haileybury. Wakefield had the misfortune of not being able to cover his heterodoxy with
the conventional formula. Porson suffered from the same cause, and from less respectable weaknesses;
but it seems that the university had no demand for services of the great scholar, and he did
nothing for his £40 a year. Milner was occupied in managing the university in the interests
of Pitt and Protestantism, and in waging war against Jacobins and intruders. There was no lack
of ability; but there was no inducement to any intellectual activity for its own sake; and
there were abundant temptations for any man of energy to diverge to the career which offered
more intelligible rewards.

The universities in fact supplied the demand which was actually operative. They provided the
average clergyman with a degree; they expected the son of the country-gentleman or successful
lawyer to acquire the traditional culture of his class, and to spend three or four years pleasantly,
or even, if he chose, industriously. But there was no such thing as a learned society, interested
in the cultivation of knowledge for its own sake, and applauding the devotion of life to its
extension or discussion. The men of the time who contributed to the progress of science owed
little or nothing to the universities, and were rather volunteers from without, impelled by
their own idiosyncrasies. Among the scientific leaders, for example, Joseph Black (1728-1799)
was a Scottish professor; Priestley (1733-1804) a dissenting minister; Cavendish (1731-1810)
an aristocratic recluse, who, though he studied at Cambridge, never graduated; Watt (1736-1819)
a practical mechanician; and Dalton (1766-1844) a Quaker schoolmaster. John Hunter (1728-1793)
was one of the energetic Scots who forced their way to fame without help from English universities.
The cultivation of the natural sciences was only beginning to take root; and the soil, which
it found congenial, was not that of the great learned institutions, which held to their old
traditional studies.

I may, then, sum up the result in a few words. The church had once claimed to be an entirely
independent body, possessing a supernatural authority, with an organisation sanctioned by supernatural
powers, and entitled to lay down the doctrines which gave the final theory of life. Theology
was the queen of the sciences and theologians the interpreters of the first principles of all
knowledge and conduct. The church of England, on the other hand, at our period had entirely
ceased to be independent: it was bound hand and foot by acts of parliament: there was no ecclesiastical
organ capable of speaking in its name, altering its laws or defining its tenets: it was an
aggregate of offices the appointment to which was in the hands either of the political ministers
or of the lay members of the ruling class. It was in reality simply a part of the ruling class
told off to perform divine services: to maintain order and respectability and the traditional
morality. It had no distinctive philosophy or theology, for the articles of belief represented
simply a compromise; an attempt to retain as much of the old as was practicable and yet to
admit as much of the new as was made desirable by political considerations. It was the boast
of its more liberal members that they were not tied down to any definite dogmatic system; but
could have a free hand so long as they did not wantonly come into conflict with some of the
legal formulæ laid down in a previous generation. The actual teaching showed the effects of
the system. It had been easy to introduce a considerable leaven of the rationalism which suited
the lay mind; to explain away the mysterious doctrines upon which an independent church had
insisted as manifestations of its spiritual privileges, but which were regarded with indifference
or contempt by the educated laity now become independent. The priest had been disarmed and
had to suit his teaching to the taste of his patrons and congregations. The divines of the
eighteenth century had, as they boasted, confuted the deists; but it was mainly by showing
that they could be deists in all but the name. The dissenters, less hampered by legal formulæ,
had drifted towards Unitarianism. The position of such divines as Paley, Watson, and Hey was
not so much that the Unitarians were wrong, as that the mysterious doctrines were mere sets
of words, over which it was superfluous to quarrel. The doctrine was essentially traditional;
for it was impossible to represent the doctrines of the church of England as deductions from
any abstract philosophy. But the traditions were not regarded as having any mysterious authority.
Abstract philosophy might lead to deism or infidelity. Paley and his like rejected such philosophy
in the spirit of Locke or even Hume. But it was always possible to treat a tradition like any
other statement of fact. It could be proved by appropriate evidence. The truth of Christianity
was therefore merely a question of facts like the truth of any other passages of history. It
was easy enough to make out a case for the Christian miracles, and then the mysteries, after
it had been sufficiently explained that they really meant next to nothing, could be rested
upon the authority of the miracles. In other words, the accepted doctrines, like the whole
constitution of the church, could be so modified as to suit the prejudices and modes of thought
of the laity. The church, it may be said, was thoroughly secularised. The priest was no longer
a wielder of threats and an interpreter of oracles, but an entirely respectable gentleman,
who fully sympathised with the prejudices of his patron and practically admitted that he had
very little to reveal, beyond explaining that his dogmas were perfectly harmless and eminently
convenient. He preached, however, a sound common sense morality, and was not divided from his
neighbours by setting up the claims characteristic of a sacerdotal caste. Whether he has become
on the whole better or worse by subsequent changes is a question not to be asked here; but
perhaps not quite so easily answered as is sometimes supposed.

The condition of the English church and universities may be contrasted with that of their Scottish
rivals. The Scottish church and universities had no great prizes to offer and no elaborate
hierarchy. But the church was a national institution in a sense different from the English.
The General Assembly was a powerful body, not overshadowed by a great political rival. To rise
to be a minister was the great ambition of poor sons of farmers and tradesmen. They had to
study at the universities in the intervals, perhaps, of agricultural labour; and if the learning
was slight and the scholarship below the English standard, the young aspirant had at least
to learn to preach and to acquire such philosophy as would enable him to argue upon grace and
freewill with some hard-headed Davie Deans. It was doubtless owing in part to these conditions
that the Scottish universities produced many distinguished teachers throughout the century.
Professors had to teach something which might at least pass for philosophy, though they were
more or less restrained by the necessity of respecting orthodox prejudices. At the end of the
century, the only schools of philosophy in the island were to be found in Scotland, where Reid
(1710-1796) and Adam Smith (1723-1790) had found intelligent disciples, and where Dugald Stewart,
of whom I shall speak presently, had become the recognised philosophical authority.

NOTES:

[22] At Cambridge subscription was abolished for undergraduates in 1775; and bachelors of arts
had only to declare themselves 'bona-fide members of the church of England.'

[23] Gilbert Wakefield's Memoirs, ii. 149.

[24] De Quincey, Works (1863), ii. 106.

[25] Wordsworth's University Life, etc. (1874), 83-87.

VII. THEORY

What theory corresponds to this practical order? It implies, in the first place, a constant
reference to tradition. The system has grown up without any reference to abstract principles
or symmetrical plan. The legal order supposes a traditional common law, as the ecclesiastical
order a traditional creed, and the organisation is explicable only by historical causes. The
system represents a series of compromises, not the elaboration of a theory. If the squire undertook
by way of supererogation to justify his position he appealed to tradition and experience. He
invoked the 'wisdom of our ancestors,' the system of 'checks and balances' which made our Constitution
an unrivalled mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy deserving the 'dread and envy
of the world.' The prescription for compounding that mixture could obviously be learned by
nothing but experiment. Traditional means empirical. By instinct, rather than conscious reasoning,
Englishmen had felt their way to establishing the 'palladia of our liberties': trial by jury,
the 'Habeas Corpus' Act, and the substitution of a militia for a standing army. The institutions
were cherished because they had been developed by long struggles and were often cherished when
their real justification had disappeared. The Constitution had not been 'made' but had 'grown';
or, in other words, the one rule had been the rule of thumb. That is an excellent rule in its
way, and very superior to an abstract rule which neglects or overrides experience. The 'logic
of facts,' moreover, may be trusted to produce a certain harmony: and general principles, though
not consciously invoked, tacitly govern the development of institutions worked out under uniform
conditions. The simple reluctance to pay money without getting money's worth might generate
the important principle that representation should go with taxation, without embodying any
theory of a 'social contract' such as was offered by an afterthought to give a philosophical
sanction. Englishmen, it is said, had bought their liberties step by step, because at each
step they were in a position to bargain with their rulers. What they had bought they were determined
to keep and considered to be their inalienable property. One result is conspicuous. In England
the ruling classes did not so much consider their privileges to be something granted by the
state, as the power of the state to be something derived from their concessions. Though the
lord-lieutenant and the justices of the peace were nominated by the crown, their authority
came in fact as an almost spontaneous consequence of their birthright or their acquired position
in the country. They shone by their own light and were really the ultimate sources of authority.
Seats in parliament, preferments in the church, commissions in the army belonged to them like
their estates; and they seemed to be qualified by nature, rather than by appointment, to act
in judicial and administrative capacities. The system of 'self-government' embodies this view.
The functions of government were assigned to men already powerful by their social position.
The absence of the centralised hierarchy of officials gave to Englishmen the sense of personal
liberty which compelled the admiration of Voltaire and his countrymen in the eighteenth century.
In England were no lettres de cachet, and no Bastille. A man could say what he thought and
act without fear of arbitrary rule. There was no such system as that which, in France, puts
the agents of the central power above the ordinary law of the land. This implies what has been
called the 'rule of the law' in England. 'With us every official from the prime minister down
to a constable or a collector of taxes' (as Professor Dicey explains the principle) 'is under
the same responsibility for every act done without legal justification as any other citizen.'[26]
The early centralisation of the English monarchy had made the law supreme, and instead of generating
a new structure had combined and regulated the existing social forces. The sovereign power
was thus farmed to the aristocracy instead of forming an organ of its own. Instead of resigning
power they were forced to exercise it on condition of thorough responsibility to the central
judiciary. Their privileges were not destroyed but were combined with the discharge of corresponding
duties. Whatever their shortcomings, they were preserved from the decay which is the inevitable
consequence of a divorce of duties from privileges.

Another aspect of the case is equally clear. If the privilege is associated with a duty, the
duty may also be regarded as a privilege. The doctrine seems to mark a natural stage in the
evolution of the conception of duty to the state. The power which is left to a member of the
ruling class is also part of his dignity. Thus we have an amalgamation between the conceptions
of private property and public trust. 'In so far as the ideal of feudalism is perfectly realised,'
it has been said,[27] 'all that we can call public law is merged in private law; jurisdiction
is property; office is property; the kingship itself is property.' This feudal ideal was still
preserved with many of the institutions descended from feudalism. The king's right to his throne
was regarded as of the same kind as the right to a private estate. His rights as king were
also his rights as the owner of the land.[28] Subordinate landowners had similar rights, and
as the royal power diminished greater powers fell to the aggregate of constitutional kinglets
who governed the country. Each of them was from one point of view an official, but each also
regarded his office as part of his property. The country belonged to him and his class rather
than he to the country. We occasionally find the quaint theory which deduced political rights
from property in land. The freeholders were the owners of the soil and might give notice to
quit to the rest of the population.[29] They had therefore a natural right to carry on government
in their own interests. The ruling classes, however, were not marked off from others by any
deep line of demarcation; they could sell their own share in the government to anybody who
was rich enough to buy it, and there was a constant influx of new blood. Moreover, they did
in fact improve their estate with very great energy, and discharged roughly, but in many ways
efficiently, the duties which were also part of their property. The nobleman or even the squire
was more than an individual; as head of a family he was a life tenant of estates which he desired
to transmit to his descendants. He was a 'corporation sole' and had some of the spirit of a
corporation. A college or a hospital is founded to discharge a particular function; its members
continue perhaps to recognise their duty; but they resent any interference from outside as
sacrilege or confiscation. It is for them alone to judge how they can best carry out, and whether
they are actually carrying out, the aims of the corporate life. In the same way the great noble
took his part in legislation, church preferment, the command of the army, and so forth, and
fully admitted that he was bound in honour to play his part effectively; but he was equally
convinced that he was subject to nothing outside of his sense of honour. His duties were also
his rights. The naïf expression of this doctrine by a great borough proprietor, 'May I not
do what I like with my own?' was to become proverbial.[30]

This, finally, suggests that a doctrine of 'individualism' is implied throughout. The individual
rights are the antecedent and the rights of the state a consequent or corollary. Every man
has certain sacred rights accruing to him in virtue of 'prescription' or tradition, through
his inherited position in the social organism. The 'rule of law' secures that he shall exercise
them without infringing the privileges of his neighbour. He may moreover be compelled by the
law to discharge them on due occasion. But, as there is no supreme body which can sufficiently
superintend, stimulate, promote, or dismiss, the active impulse must come chiefly from his
own sense of the fitness of things. The efficiency therefore depends upon his being in such
a position that his duty may coincide with his personal interest. The political machinery can
only work efficiently on the assumption of a spontaneous activity of the ruling classes, prompted
by public spirit or a sense of personal dignity. Meanwhile, 'individualism' in a different
sense was represented by the forces which made for progress rather than order, and to them
I must now turn.

NOTES:

[26] Professor Dicey's Lectures on the Law of the Constitution (1885), p. 178. Professor Dicey
gives an admirable exposition of the 'rule of law.'

[27] Pollock and Maitland's History of English Law, i. 208.

[28] A characteristic consequence is that Hale and Blackstone make no distinction between public
and private law. Austin (Jurisprudence (1869), 773-76) applauds them for this peculiarity,
which he regards as a proof of originality, though it would rather seem to be an acceptance
of the traditional view. Austin, however, retorts the charge of Verwirrung upon German critics.

[29] This is the theory of Defoe in his Original Power of the People of England (Works by Hazlitt,
vol iii. See especially p. 57).

[30] The fourth duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords, 3 Dec. 1830.

CHAPTER II

THE INDUSTRIAL SPIRIT

I. THE MANUFACTURERS

The history of England during the eighteenth century shows a curious contrast between the political
stagnancy and the great industrial activity. The great constitutional questions seemed to be
settled; and the statesmen, occupied mainly in sharing power and place, took a very shortsighted
view (not for the first time in history) of the great problems that were beginning to present
themselves. The British empire in the East was not won by a towering ambition so much as forced
upon a reluctant commercial company by the necessities of its position. The English race became
dominant in America; but the political connection was broken off mainly because English statesmen
could only regard it from the shopkeeping point of view. When a new world began to arise at
the Antipodes, our rulers saw an opportunity not for planting new offshoots of European civilisation,
but for ridding themselves of the social rubbish no longer accepted in America. With purblind
energy, and eyes doggedly fixed upon the ground at their feet, the race had somehow pressed
forwards to illustrate the old doctrine that a man never goes so far as when he does not know
whither he is going. While thinking of earning an honest penny by extending the trade, our
'monied-men' were laying the foundation of vast structures to be developed by their descendants.

Politicians, again, had little to do with the great 'industrial revolution' which marked the
last half of the century. The main facts are now a familiar topic of economic historians; nor
need I speak of them in detail. Though agriculture was still the main industry, and the landowners
almost monopolised political power, an ever growing proportion of the people was being collected
in towns; the artisans were congregating in large factories; and the great cloud of coal-smoke,
which has never dwindled, was already beginning to darken our skies. The change corresponds
to the difference between a fully developed organism possessed of a central brain, with an
elaborate nervous system, and some lower form in which the vital processes are still carried
on by a number of separate ganglia. The concentration of the population in the great industrial
centres implied the improvement of the means of commerce; new organisation of industry provided
with a corresponding apparatus of machinery; and the systematic exploitation of the stored-up
forces of nature. Each set of changes was at once cause and effect, and each was carried on
separately, although in relation to the other. Brindley, Arkwright, and Watt may be taken as
typical representatives of the three operations. Canals, spinning-jennies, and steam-engines
were changing the whole social order.

The development of means of communication had been slow till the last half of the century.
The roads had been little changed since they had been first laid down as part of the great
network which bound the Roman empire together. Turnpike acts, sanctioning the construction
of new roads, became numerous. Palmer's application of the stage-coaches to the carriage of
the mails marked an epoch in 1784; and De Quincey's prose poem, 'The Mail-coach,' shows how
the unprecedented speed of Palmer's coaches, then spreading the news of the first battles in
the Peninsula, had caused them to tyrannise over the opium-eater's dreams. They were discharging
at once a political and an industrial function. Meanwhile the Bridgewater canal, constructed
between 1759 and 1761, was the first link in a great network which, by the time of the French
revolution, connected the seaports and the great centres of industry. The great inventions
of machinery were simultaneously enabling manufacturers to take advantage of the new means
of communication. The cotton manufacture sprang up soon after 1780 with enormous rapidity.
Aided by the application of steam (first applied to a cotton mill in 1785) it passed the woollen
trade, the traditional favourite of legislators, and became the most important branch of British
trade. The iron trade had made a corresponding start. While the steam-engine, on which Watt
had made the first great improvement in 1765, was transforming the manufacturing system, and
preparing the advent of the steamship and railroad, Great Britain had become the leading manufacturing
and commercial country in the world. The agricultural interest was losing its pre-eminence;
and huge towns with vast aggregations of artisan population were beginning to spring up with
unprecedented rapidity. The change was an illustration upon a gigantic scale of the doctrines
expounded in the Wealth of Nations. Division of labour was being applied to things more important
than pin-making, involving a redistribution of functions not as between men covered by the
same roof, but between whole classes of society; between the makers of new means of communication
and the manufacturers of every kind of material. The whole industrial community might be regarded
as one great organism. Yet the organisation was formed by a multitude of independent agencies
without any concerted plan. It was thus a vast illustration of the doctrine that each man by
pursuing his own interests promoted the interests of the whole, and that government interference
was simply a hindrance. The progress of improvement, says Adam Smith, depends upon 'the uniform,
constant, and uninterrupted effort of every man to better his condition,' which often succeeds
in spite of the errors of government, as nature often overcomes the blunders of doctors. It
allowed the engineer to make roads and canals, after a troublesome and expensive process of
application. It granted patents to the manufacturer, but the patents were a source of perpetual
worry and litigation. The Chancellor of the Exchequer might look with complacency upon the
development of a new branch of trade; but it was because he was lying in wait to come down
upon it with a new tax or system of duties.

The men who were the chief instruments of the process were 'self-made'; they were the typical
examples of Mr. Smiles's virtue of self-help; they owed nothing to government or to the universities
which passed for the organs of national culture. The leading engineers began as ordinary mechanics.
John Metcalf (1717-1810), otherwise 'blind Jack of Knaresborough,' was a son of poor parents.
He had lost his sight by smallpox at the age of six, and, in spite of his misfortune, became
a daring rider, wrestler, soldier, and carrier, and made many roads in the north of England,
executing surveys and constructing the works himself. James Brindley (1716-1772), son of a
midland collier, barely able to read or write, working out plans by processes which he could
not explain, and lying in bed till they took shape in his brain, a rough mechanic, labouring
for trifling weekly wages, created the canals which mainly enabled Manchester and Liverpool
to make an unprecedented leap in prosperity. The two great engineers, Thomas Telford (1757-1834),
famous for the Caledonian canal and the Menai bridge; and John Rennie (1761-1821), drainer
of Lincolnshire fens, and builder of Waterloo bridge and the Plymouth breakwater, rose from
the ranks. Telford inherited and displayed in a different direction the energies of Eskdale
borderers, whose achievements in the days of cattle-stealing were to be made famous by Scott:
Rennie was the son of an East Lothian farmer. Both of them learned their trade by actual employment
as mechanics. The inventors of machinery belonged mainly to the lower middle classes. Kay was
a small manufacturer; Hargreaves a hand-loom weaver; Crompton the son of a small farmer; and
Arkwright a country barber. Watt, son of a Greenock carpenter, came from the sturdy Scottish
stock, ultimately of covenanting ancestry, from which so many eminent men have sprung.

The new social class, in which such men were the leaders, held corresponding principles. They
owed whatever success they won to their own right hands. They were sturdy workers, with eyes
fixed upon success in life, and success generally of course measured by a money criterion.
Many of them showed intellectual tastes, and took an honourable view of their social functions.
Watt showed his ability in scientific inquiries outside of the purely industrial application;
Josiah Wedgwood, in whose early days the Staffordshire potters had led a kind of gipsy life,
settling down here and there to carry on their trade, had not only founded a great industry,
but was a man of artistic taste, a patron of art, and a lover of science. Telford, the Eskdale
shepherd, was a man of literary taste, and was especially friendly with the typical man of
letters, Southey. Others, of course, were of a lower type. Arkwright combined the talents of
an inventor with those of a man of business. He was a man, says Baines (the historian of the
cotton trade), who was sure to come out of an enterprise with profit, whatever the result to
his partners. He made a great fortune, and founded a county family. Others rose in the same
direction. The Peels, for example, represented a line of yeomen. One Peel founded a cotton
business; his son became a baronet and an influential member of parliament; and his grandson
went to Oxford, and became the great leader of the Conservative party, although like Walpole,
he owed his power to a kind of knowledge in which his adopted class were generally deficient.

The class which owed its growing importance to the achievements of such men was naturally imbued
with their spirit. Its growth meant the development of a class which under the old order had
been strictly subordinate to the ruling class, and naturally regarded it with a mingled feeling
of respect and jealousy. The British merchant felt his superiority in business to the average
country-gentleman; he got no direct share of the pensions and sinecures which so profoundly
affected the working of the political machinery, and yet his highest ambition was to rise to
be himself a member of the class, and to found a family which might flourish in the upper atmosphere.
The industrial classes were inclined to favour political progress within limits. They were
dissenters because the church was essentially part of the aristocracy; and they were readiest
to denounce the abuses from which they did not profit. The agitators who supported Wilkes,
solid aldermen and rich merchants, represented the view which was popular in London and other
great cities. They were the backbone of the Whig party when it began to demand a serious reform.
Their radicalism, however, was not thoroughly democratic. Many of them aspired to become members
of the ruling class, and a shopkeeper does not quarrel too thoroughly with his customers. The
politics of individuals were of course determined by accidents. Some of them might retain the
sympathy of the class from which they sprang, and others might adopt an even extreme version
of the opinions of the class to which they desired to rise. But, in any case, the divergence
of interest between the capitalists and the labourers was already making itself felt. The self-made
man, it is said, is generally the hardest master. He approves of the stringent system of competition,
of which he is himself a product. It clearly enables the best man to win, for is he not himself
the best man? The class which was the great seat of movement had naturally to meet all the
prejudices which are roused by change. The farmers near London, as Adam Smith tells us,[32]
petitioned against an extension of turnpike roads, which would enable more distant farmers
to compete in their market. But the farmers were not the only prejudiced persons. All the great
inventors of machinery, Kay and Arkwright and Watt, had constantly to struggle against the
old workmen who were displaced by their inventions. Although, therefore, the class might be
Whiggish, it did not share the strongest revolutionary passions. The genuine revolutionists
were rather the men who destroyed the manufacturer's machines, and were learning to regard
him as a natural enemy. The manufacturer had his own reasons for supporting government. Our
foreign policy during the century was in the long run chiefly determined by the interests of
our trade, however much the trade might at times be hampered by ill-conceived regulations.
It is remarkable that Adam Smith[33] argues that, although the capitalist is acuter that the
country-gentleman, his acuteness is chiefly displayed by knowing his own interests better.
Those interests, he thinks, do not coincide so much as the interests of the country-gentleman
with the general interests of the country. Consequently the country-gentleman, though less
intelligent, is more likely to favour a national and liberal policy. The merchant, in fact,
was not a free-trader because he had read Adam Smith or consciously adopted Smith's principles,
but because or in so far as particular restrictions interfered with him. Arthur Young complains
bitterly of the manufacturers who supported the prohibition to export English wool, and so
protected their own class at the expense of agriculturists. Wedgwood, though a good liberal
and a supporter of Pitt's French treaty in 1786, joined in protesting against the proposal
for free-trade with Ireland. The Irish, he thought, might rival his potteries. Thus, though
as a matter of fact the growing class of manufacturers and merchants were inclined in the main
to liberal principles, it was less from adhesion to any general doctrine than from the fact
that the existing restrictions and prejudices generally conflicted with their plain interests.

Another characteristic is remarkable. Though the growth of manufactures and commerce meant
the growth of great towns, it did not mean the growth of municipal institutions. On the contrary,
as I shall presently have to notice, the municipalities were sinking to their lowest ebb. Manufactures,
in the first instance, spread along the streams into country districts: and to the great manufacturer,
working for his own hand, his neighbours were competitors as much as allies. The great towns,
however, which were growing up, showed the general tendencies of the class. They were centres
not only of manufacturing but of intellectual progress. The population of Birmingham, containing
the famous Soho works of Boulton and Watt, had increased between 1740 and 1780 from 24,000
to 74,000 inhabitants. Watt's partner Boulton started the 'Lunar Society' at Birmingham.[34]
Its most prominent member was Erasmus Darwin, famous then for poetry which is chiefly remembered
by the parody in the Anti-Jacobin; and now more famous as the advocate of a theory of evolution
eclipsed by the teaching of his more famous grandson, and, in any case, a man of remarkable
intellectual power. Among those who joined in the proceedings was Edgeworth, who in 1768 was
speculating upon moving carriages by steam, and Thomas Day, whose Sandford and Merton helped
to spread in England the educational theories of Rousseau. Priestley, who settled at Birmingham
in 1780, became a member, and was helped in his investigations by Watt's counsels and Wedgwood's
pecuniary help. Among occasional visitors were Smeaton, Sir Joseph Banks, Solander, and Herschel
of scientific celebrity; while the literary magnate, Dr. Parr, who lived between Warwick and
Birmingham, occasionally joined the circle. Wedgwood, though too far off to be a member, was
intimate with Darwin and associated in various enterprises with Boulton. Wedgwood's congenial
partner, Thomas Bentley (1731-1780), had been in business at Manchester and at Liverpool. He
had taken part in founding the Warrington 'Academy,' the dissenting seminary (afterwards moved
to Manchester) of which Priestley was tutor (1761-1767), and had lectured upon art at the academy
founded at Liverpool in 1773. Another member of the academy was William Roscoe (1753-1831),
whose literary taste was shown by his lives of Lorenzo de Medici and Leo X., and who distinguished
himself by opposing the slave-trade, then the infamy of his native town. Allied with him in
this movement were William Rathbone and James Currie (1756-1805) the biographer of Burns, a
friend of Darwin and an intelligent physician. At Manchester Thomas Perceval (1740-1804) founded
the 'Literary and Philosophical Society' in 1780. He was a pupil of the Warrington Academy,
which he afterwards joined on removing to Manchester, and he formed the scheme afterwards realised
by Owens College. He was an early advocate of sanitary measures and factory legislation, and
a man of scientific reputation. Other members of the society were: John Ferriar (1761-1815),
best known by his Illustrations of Sterne, but also a man of literary and scientific reputation;
the great chemist, John Dalton (1766-1844), who contributed many papers to its transactions;
and, for a short time, the Socialist Robert Owen, then a rising manufacturer. At Norwich, then
important as a manufacturing centre, was a similar circle. William Taylor, an eminent Unitarian
divine, who died at the Warrington Academy in 1761, had lived at Norwich. One of his daughters
married David Martineau and became the mother of Harriet Martineau, who has described the Norwich
of her early years. John Taylor, grandson of William, was father of Mrs. Austin, wife of the
jurist. He was a man of literary tastes, and his wife was known as the Madame Roland of Norwich.
Mrs. Opie (1765-1853) was daughter of James Alderson, a physician of Norwich, and passed most
of her life there. William Taylor (1761-1836), another Norwich manufacturer, was among the
earliest English students of German literature. Norwich had afterwards the unique distinction
of being the home of a provincial school of artists. John Crome (1788-1821), son of a poor
weaver, and John Sell Cotman (1782-1842) were its leaders; they formed a kind of provincial
academy, and exhibited pictures which have been more appreciated since their death. At Bristol,
towards the end of the century, were similar indications of intellectual activity. Coleridge
and Southey found there a society ready to listen to their early lectures, and both admired
Thomas Beddoes (1760-1808), a physician, a chemist, a student of German, an imitator of Darwin
in poetry, and an assailant of Pitt in pamphlets. He had married one of Edgeworth's daughters.
With the help and advice of Wedgwood and Watt, he founded the 'Pneumatic Institute' at Clifton
in 1798, and obtained the help of Humphry Davy, who there made some of his first discoveries.
Davy was soon transported to the Royal Institution, founded at the suggestion of Count Rumford
in 1799, which represented the growth of a popular interest in the scientific discoveries.

The general tone of these little societies represents, of course, the tendency of the upper
stratum of the industrial classes. In their own eyes they naturally represented the progressive
element of society. They were Whigs--for 'radicalism' was not yet invented--but Whigs of the
left wing; accepting the aristocratic precedency, but looking askance at the aristocratic prejudices.
They were rationalists, too, in principle, but again within limits: openly avowing the doctrines
which in the Established church had still to be sheltered by ostensible conformity to the traditional
dogmas. Many of them professed the Unitarianism to which the old dissenting bodies inclined.
'Unitarianism,' said shrewd old Erasmus Darwin, 'is a feather-bed for a dying Christian.' But
at present such men as Priestley and Price were only so far on the road to a thorough rationalism
as to denounce the corruptions of Christianity, as they denounced abuses in politics, without
anticipating a revolutionary change in church and state. Priestley, for example, combined 'materialism'
and 'determinism' with Christianity and a belief in miracles, and controverted Horsley upon
one side and Paine on the other.

NOTES:

[31] Wealth of Nations, bk. ii. ch. iii.

[32] Wealth of Nations, bk. i. ch. xi. § 1.

[33] Ibid. bk. i. ch. xi. conclusion.

[34] Smiles's Watt and Boulton, p. 292.

II. THE AGRICULTURISTS

The general spirit represented by such movements was by no means confined to the commercial
or manufacturing classes; and its most characteristic embodiment is to be found in the writings
of a leading agriculturist.

Arthur Young,[35] born in 1741, was the son of a clergyman, who had also a small ancestral
property at Bradfield, near Bury St. Edmunds. Accidents led to his becoming a farmer at an
early age. He showed more zeal than discretion, and after trying three thousand experiments
on his farm, he was glad to pay £100 to another tenant to take his farm off his hands. This
experience as a practical agriculturist, far from discouraging him, qualified him in his own
opinion to speak with authority, and he became a devoted missionary of the gospel of agricultural
improvement. The enthusiasm with which he admired more successful labourers in the cause, and
the indignation with which he regards the sluggish and retrograde, are charming. His kindliness,
his keen interest in the prosperity of all men, rich or poor, his ardent belief in progress,
combined with his quickness of observation, give a charm to the writings which embody his experience.
Tours in England and a temporary land-agency in Ireland supplied him with materials for books
which made him known both in England and on the Continent. In 1779 he returned to Bradfield,
where he soon afterwards came into possession of his paternal estate, which became his permanent
home. In 1784 he tried to extend his propaganda by bringing out the Annals of Agriculture--a
monthly publication, of which forty-five half-yearly volumes appeared. He had many able contributors
and himself wrote many interesting articles, but the pecuniary results were mainly negative.
In 1791 his circulation was only 350 copies.[36] Meanwhile his acquaintance with the duc de
Liancourt led to tours in France from 1788 to 1790. His Travels in France, first published
in 1792, has become a classic. In 1793 Young was made secretary to the Board of Agriculture,
of which I shall speak presently. He became known in London society as well as in agricultural
circles. He was a handsome and attractive man, a charming companion, and widely recognised
as an agricultural authority. The empress of Russia sent him a snuff-box; 'Farmer George' presented
a merino ram; he was elected member of learned societies; he visited Burke at Beaconsfield,
Pitt at Holmwood, and was a friend of Wilberforce and of Jeremy Bentham.

Young had many domestic troubles. His marriage was not congenial; the loss of a tenderly loved
daughter in 1797 permanently saddened him; he became blind, and in his later years sought comfort
in religious meditation and in preaching to his poorer neighbours. He died 20th April 1820.
He left behind him a gigantic history of agriculture, filling ten folio volumes of manuscript,
which, though reduced to six by an enthusiastic disciple after his death, have never found
their way to publication.

The Travels in France, Young's best book, owes one merit to the advice of a judicious friend,
who remarked that the previous tours had suffered from the absence of the personal details
which interest the common reader. The insertion of these makes Young's account of his French
tours one of the most charming as well as most instructive books of the kind. It gives the
vivid impression made upon a keen and kindly observer in all their freshness. He sensibly retained
the expressions of opinion made at the time. 'I may remark at present,' he says,[37] 'that
although I was totally mistaken in my prediction, yet, on a revision, I think I was right in
it.' It was right, he means, upon the data then known to him, and he leaves the unfulfilled
prediction as it was. The book is frequently cited in justification of the revolution, and
it may be fairly urged that his authority is of the more weight, because he does not start
from any sympathy with revolutionary principles. Young was in Paris when the oath was taken
at the tennis-court; and makes his reflections upon the beauty of the British Constitution,
and the folly of visionary reforms, in a spirit which might have satisfied Burke. He was therefore
not altogether inconsistent when, after the outrages, he condemned the revolution, however
much the facts which he describes may tend to explain the inevitableness of the catastrophe.
At any rate, his views are worth notice by the indications which they give of the mental attitude
of a typical English observer.

Young in his vivacious way struck out some of the phrases which became proverbial with later
economists. The property of a grand 'seigneur' is sure to be a desert.[41] The signs which
indicate such properties are 'wastes, landes, deserts, fern, ling.' The neighbourhood of the
great residences is well peopled--'with deer, wild boars, and wolves,' 'Oh,' he exclaims, 'if
I was the legislator of France for a day, I would make such great lords skip again!' 'Why,'
he asked, 'were the people miserable in lower Savoy?' 'Because', was the reply, 'there are
seigneurs everywhere'.[42] Misery in Brittany was due 'to the execrable maxims of despotism
or the equally detestable prejudices of a feudal nobility.'[43] There was nothing, he said,
in the province but 'privileges and poverty,'[44] privileges of the nobles and poverty of the
peasants.

Young was profoundly convinced, moreover, that, as he says more than once[45] 'everything in
this world depends on government.' He is astonished at the stupidity and ignorance of the provincial
population, and ascribes it to the lethargy produced by despotism.[46] He contrasts it with
'the energetic and rapid circulation of wealth, animation, and intelligence of England,' where
'blacksmiths and carpenters' would discuss every political event. And yet he heartily admires
some of the results of a centralised monarchy. He compares the miserable roads in Catalonia
on the Spanish side of the frontier with the magnificent causeways and bridges on the French
side. The difference is due to the 'one all-powerful cause that instigates mankind ... government.'[47]
He admires the noble public works, the canal of Languedoc, the harbours at Cherbourg and Havre,
and the école vétérinaire where agriculture is taught upon scientific principles. He is struck
by the curious contrast between France and England. In France the splendid roads are used by
few travellers, and the inns are filthy pothouses; in England there are detestable roads, but
a comparatively enormous traffic. When he wished to make the great nobles 'skip' he does not
generally mean confiscation. He sees indeed one place where in 1790 the poor had seized a piece
of waste land, declaring that the poor were the nation, and that the waste belonged to the
nation. He declares[48] that he considers their action 'wise, rational, and philosophical,'
and wishes that there were a law to make such conduct legal in England. But his more general
desire is that the landowners should be compelled to do their duty. He complains that the nobles
live in 'wretched holes' in the country in order to save the means of expenditure upon theatres,
entertainments, and gambling in the towns.[49] 'Banishment alone will force the French nobility
to do what the English do for pleasure--to reside upon and adorn their estates.'[50] He explains
to a French friend that English agriculture has flourished 'in spite of the teeth of our ministers';
we have had many Colberts, but not one Sully[51]; and we should have done much better, he thinks,
had agriculture received the same attention as commerce. This is the reverse of Adam Smith's
remark upon the superior liberality of the English country-gentleman, who did not, like the
manufacturers, invoke protection and interference. In truth, Young desired both advantages,
the vigour of a centralised government and the energy of an independent aristocracy. His absence
of any general theory enables him to do justice in detail at the cost of consistency in general
theory. In France, as he saw, the nobility had become in the main an encumbrance, a mere dead
weight upon the energies of the agriculturist. But he did not infer that large properties in
land were bad in themselves; for in England he saw that the landowners were the really energetic
and improving class. He naturally looked at the problem from the point of view of an intelligent
land-agent. He is full of benevolent wishes for the labourer, and sympathises with the attempt
to stimulate their industry and improve their dwellings, and denounces oppression whether in
France or Ireland with the heartiest goodwill. But it is characteristic of the position that
such a man--an enthusiastic advocate of industrial progress--was a hearty admirer of the English
landowner. He sets out upon his first tour, announcing that he does not write for farmers,
of whom not one in five thousand reads anything, but for the country-gentlemen, who are the
great improvers. Tull, who introduced turnips; Weston, who introduced clover; Lord Townshend
and Allen, who introduced 'marling' in Norfolk, were all country-gentlemen, and it is from
them that he expects improvement. He travels everywhere, delighting in their new houses and
parks, their picture galleries, and their gardens laid out by Kent or 'Capability Brown'; he
admires scenery, climbs Skiddaw, and is rapturous over views of the Alps and Pyrenees; but
he is thrown into a rage by the sight of wastes, wherever improvement is possible. What delights
him is an estate with a fine country-house of Palladian architecture ('Gothic' is with him
still a term of abuse),[52] with grounds well laid out and a good home-farm, where experiments
are being tried, and surrounded by an estate in which the farm-buildings show the effects of
the landlord's good example and judicious treatment of his tenantry. There was no want of such
examples. He admires the marquis of Rockingham, at once the most honourable of statesmen and
most judicious of improvers. He sings the praises of the duke of Portland, the earl of Darlington,
and the duke of Northumberland. An incautious announcement of the death of the duke of Grafton,
remembered chiefly as one of the victims of Junius, but known to Young for his careful experiments
in sheep-breeding, produced a burst of tears, which, as he believed, cost him his eyesight.
His friend, the fifth duke of Bedford (died 1802), was one of the greatest improvers for the
South, and was succeeded by another friend, the famous Coke of Holkham, afterwards earl of
Leicester, who is said to have spent half a million upon the improvement of his property. Young
appeals to the class in which such men were leaders, and urges them, not against their wishes,
we may suppose, and, no doubt, with much good sense, to take to their task in the true spirit
of business. Nothing, he declares, is more out of place than the boast of some great landowners
that they never raise their rents.[53] High rents produce industry. The man who doubles his
rents benefits the country more than he benefits himself. Even in Ireland,[54] a rise of rents
is one great cause of improvement, though the rent should not be excessive, and the system
of middlemen is altogether detestable. One odd suggestion is characteristic.[55] He hears that
wages are higher in London than elsewhere. Now, he says, in a trading country low wages are
essential. He wonders, therefore, that the legislature does not limit the growth of London.

This, we may guess, is one of the petulant utterances of early years which he would have disavowed
or qualified upon maturer reflection. But Young is essentially an apostle of the 'glorious
spirit of improvement,'[56] which has converted Norfolk sheep-walks into arable fields, and
was spreading throughout the country and even into Ireland. His hero is the energetic landowner,
who makes two blades of grass grow where one grew before; who introduces new breeds of cattle
and new courses of husbandry. He is so far in sympathy with the Wealth of Nations, although
he says of that book that, while he knows of 'no abler work,' he knows of none 'fuller of poisonous
errors.'[57] Young, that is, sympathised with the doctrine of the physiocrats that agriculture
was the one source of real wealth, and took Smith to be too much on the side of commerce. Young,
however, was as enthusiastic a free-trader as Smith. He naturally denounces the selfishness
of the manufacturers who, in 1788, objected to the free export of English wool,[58] but he
also assails monopoly in general. The whole system, he says (on occasion of Pitt's French treaty),
is rotten to the core. The 'vital spring and animating soul of commerce is LIBERTY.'[59] Though
he talks of the balance of trade, he argues in the spirit of Smith or Cobden that we are benefited
by the wealth of our customers. If we have to import more silk, we shall export more cloth.
Young, indeed, was everything but a believer in any dogmatic or consistent system of Political
Economy, or, as he still calls it, Political Arithmetic. His opinions were not of the kind
which can be bound to any rigid formulæ. After investigating the restrictions of rent and wages
in different districts, he quietly accepts the conclusion that the difference is due to accident.[60]
He has as yet no fear of Malthus before his eyes. He is roused to indignation by the pessimist
theory then common, that population was decaying.[61] Everywhere he sees signs of progress;
buildings, plantations, woods, and canals. Employment, he says, creates population, stimulates
industry, and attracts labour from backward districts. The increase of numbers is an unqualified
benefit. He has no dread of excess. In Ireland, he observes, no one is fool enough to deny
that population is increasing, though people deny it in England, 'even in the most productive
period of her industry and wealth.'[62] One cause of this blessing is the absence or the poor-law.
The English poor-law is detestable to him for a reason which contrasts significantly with the
later opinion. The laws were made 'in the very spirit of depopulation'; they are 'monuments
of barbarity and mischief'; for they give to every parish an interest in keeping down the population.
This tendency was in the eyes of the later economist a redeeming feature in the old system;
though it had been then so modified as to stimulate what they took to be the curse, as Young
held it to be the blessing, of a rapid increase of population.

With such views Young was a keen advocate of the process of enclosure which was going on with
increasing rapidity. He found a colleague, who may be briefly noticed as a remarkable representative
of the same movement. Sir John Sinclair (1754-1835)[63] was heir to an estate of sixty thousand
acres in Caithness which produced only £2300 a year, subject to many encumbrances. The region
was still in a primitive state. There were no roads: agriculture was of the crudest kind; part
of the rent was still paid in feudal services; the natives were too ignorant or lazy to fish,
and there were no harbours. Trees were scarce enough to justify Johnson, and a list of all
the trees in the country included currant-bushes.[64] Sinclair was a pupil of the poet Logan:
studied under Blair at Edinburgh and Millar at Glasgow; became known to Adam Smith, and, after
a short time at Oxford, was called to the English bar. Sinclair was a man of enormous energy,
though not of vivacious intellect. He belonged to the prosaic breed, which created the 'dismal
science,' and seems to have been regarded as a stupendous bore. Bores, however, represent a
social force not to be despised, and Sinclair was no exception.

His father died when he was sixteen. When twenty years old he collected his tenants, and in
one night made a road across a hill which had been pronounced impracticable. He was an enthusiastic
admirer of Gaelic traditions; defended the authenticity of Ossian; supported Highland games,
and brought Italian travellers to listen to the music of the bagpipes. When he presented himself
to his tenants in the Highland costume, on the withdrawal of its prohibition, they expected
him to lead them in a foray upon the lowlands in the name of Charles Edward. He afterwards
raised a regiment of 'fencibles' which served in Ireland in 1798, and, when disbanded, sent
a large contingent to the Egyptian expedition. But he rendered more peaceful services to his
country. He formed new farms; he enclosed several thousand acres; as head of the 'British Wool
Society,' he introduced the Cheviots or 'long sheep' to the North--an improvement which is
said to have doubled the rents of many estates; he introduced agricultural shows; he persuaded
government in 1801 to devote the proceeds of the confiscated estates of Jacobites to the improvement
of Scottish communications; he helped to introduce fisheries and even manufactures; and was
a main agent in the change which made Caithness one of the most rapidly improving parts of
the country. His son assures us that he took every means to obviate the incidental evils which
have been the pretexts of denunciators of similar improvements. Sinclair gained a certain reputation
by a History of the Revenue (1785-90), and, like Malthus, travelled on the Continent to improve
his knowledge. His first book finished, he began the great statistical work by which he is
best remembered. He is said to have introduced into English the name of 'statistics,' for the
researches of which all economical writers were beginning to feel the necessity. He certainly
did much to introduce the reality. Sinclair circulated a number of queries (upon 'natural history,'
'population,' 'productions,' and 'miscellaneous' informations) to every parish minister in
Scotland. He surmounted various jealousies naturally excited, and the ultimate result was the
Statistical Account of Scotland, which appeared in twenty-one volumes between 1791 and 1799.[65]
It gives an account of every parish in Scotland, and was of great value as supplying a basis
for all social investigations. Sinclair bore the expense, and gave the profits to the 'Sons
of the Clergy.' In 1793 Sinclair, who had been in parliament since 1780, made himself useful
to Pitt in connection with the issue of exchequer bills to meet the commercial crisis. He begged
in return for the foundation of a Board of Agriculture. He became the president and Arthur
Young the secretary;[66] and the board represented their common aspirations. It was a rather
anomalous body, something between a government office and such an institution as the Royal
Society; and was supported by an annual grant of £3000. The first aim of the board was to produce
a statistical account of England on the plan of the Scottish account. The English clergy, however,
were suspicious; they thought, it seems, that the collection of statistics meant an attack
upon tithes; and Young's frequent denunciation of tithes as discouraging agricultural improvement
suggests some excuse for the belief. The plan had to be dropped; a less thoroughgoing description
of the counties was substituted; and a good many 'Views' of the agriculture of different counties
were published in 1794 and succeeding years. The board did its best to be active with narrow
means. It circulated information, distributed medals, and brought agricultural improvers together.
It encouraged the publication of Erasmus Darwin's Phytologia (1799), and procured a series
of lectures from Humphry Davy, afterwards published as Elements of Agricultural Chemistry (1813).
Sinclair also claims to have encouraged Macadam (1756-1836), the road-maker, and Meikle, the
inventor of the thrashing-machine. One great aim of the board was to promote enclosures. Young
observes in the introductory paper to the Annals that within forty years nine hundred bills
had been passed affecting about a million acres. This included wastes, but the greater part
was already cultivated under the 'constraint and imperfection of the open field system,' a
relic of the 'barbarity of our ancestors.' Enclosures involved procuring acts of parliament--a
consequent expenditure, as Young estimates, of some £2000 in each case;[67] and as they were
generally obtained by the great landowners, there was a frequent neglect of the rights of the
poor and of the smaller holders. The remedy proposed was a general enclosure act; and such
an act passed the House of Commons in 1798, but was thrown out by the Lords. An act was not
obtained till after the Reform Bill. Sinclair, however, obtained some modification of the procedure;
which, it is said, facilitated the passage of private bills. They became more numerous in later
years, though other causes obviously co-operated. Meanwhile, it is characteristic that Sinclair
and Young regarded wastes as a backwoodsman regarded a forest. The incidental injury to poor
commoners was not unnoticed, and became one of the topics of Cobbett's eloquence. But to the
ardent agriculturist the existence of a bit of waste land was a simple proof of barbarism.
Sinclair's favourite toast, we are told, was 'May commons become uncommon'--his one attempt
at a joke. He prayed that Epping Forest and Finchley Common might pass under the yoke as well
as our foreign enemies. Young is driven out of all patience by the sight of 'fern, ling, and
other trumpery' usurping the place of possible arable fields.[68] He groans in spirit upon
Salisbury Plain, which might be made to produce all the corn we import.[69] Enfield Chase,
he declares, is a 'real nuisance to the public.'[70] We may be glad that the zeal for enclosure
was not successful in all its aims; but this view of philanthropic and energetic improvers
is characteristic.

It is said[71] that Young and Sinclair ruined the Board of Agriculture by making it a kind
of political debating club. It died in 1822. Sinclair obtained an appointment in Scotland,
and continued to labour unremittingly. He carried on a correspondence with all manner of people,
including Washington, Eldon, Catholic bishops in Ireland, financiers and agriculturists on
the Continent, and the most active economists in England. He suggested a subject for a poem
to Scott.[72] He wrote pamphlets about cash-payments, Catholic Emancipation, and the Reform
Bill, always disagreeing with all parties. He projected four codes which were to summarise
all human knowledge upon health, agriculture, political economy, and religion. The Code of
Health (4 vols., 1807) went through six editions; The Code of Agriculture appeared in 1829;
but the world has not been enriched by the others. He died at Edinburgh on the 21st September 1835.

I have dwelt so far upon Young because he is the best representative of that 'glorious spirit
of improvement' which was transforming the whole social structure. Young's view of the French
revolution indicates one marked characteristic of that spirit. He denounces the French seigneur
because he is lethargic. He admires the English nobleman because he is energetic. The French
noble may even deserve confiscation; but he has not the slightest intention of applying the
same remedy in England, where squires and noblemen are the very source of all improvement.
He holds that government is everything, and admires the great works of the French despotism:
and yet he is a thorough admirer of the liberties enjoyed under the British Constitution, the
essential nature of which makes similar works impossible. I need not ask whether Young's logic
could be justified; though it would obviously require for justification a thoroughly 'empirical'
view, or, in other words, the admission that different circumstances may require totally different
institutions. The view, however, which was congenial to the prevalent spirit of improvement
must be noted. 'Everything for the people, nothing by the people,' was, as Mr. Morley remarks,[73]
the maxim of the French economists. The political liberty of which Englishmen were rightfully
proud, the 'rule of law' which made every official responsible to the ordinary course of justice,
and the actual discharge of their duties by the governing order, saved it from being the objects
of a jealous class hatred. While in France government was staggering under an ever-accumulating
resentment against the aristocracy, the contemporary position in England was, on the whole,
one of political apathy. The country, though it had lost its colonies, was making unprecedented
progress in wealth; commerce, manufactures, and agriculture were being developed by the energy
of individuals; and Pitt was beginning to apply Adam Smith's principles to finance. The cry
for parliamentary reform died out: neither Whigs nor Tories really cared for it; and the 'glorious
spirit of improvement' showed itself in an energy which had little political application. The
nobility was not an incubus suppressing individual energy and confronted by the state, but
was itself the state; and its individual members were often leaders in industrial improvement.
Discontent, therefore, took in the main a different form. Some government was, of course, necessary,
and the existing system was too much in harmony, even in its defects, with the social order
to provoke any distinct revolutionary sentiment. Englishmen were not only satisfied with their
main institutions, but regarded them with exaggerated complacency. But, though there was no
organic disorder, there were plenty of abuses to be remedied. The ruling class, it seemed,
did its duties in the main, but took unconscionable perquisites in return. If it 'farmed' them,
it was right that it should have a beneficial interest in the concern; but that interest might
be excessive. In many directions abuses were growing up which required remedy, though not a
subversion of the system under which they had been generated. It was not desired--unless by
a very few theorists--to make any sweeping redistribution of power; but it was eminently desirable
to find some means of better regulating many evil practices. The attack upon such practices
might ultimately suggest--as, in fact, it did suggest--the necessity of far more thoroughgoing
reforms. For the present, however, the characteristic mark of English reformers was this limitation
of their schemes, and a mark which is especially evident in Bentham and his followers. I will
speak, therefore, of the many questions which were arising, partly for these reasons and partly
because the Utilitarian theory was in great part moulded by the particular problems which they
had to argue.

NOTES:

[35] Young's Travels in France was republished in 1892, with a preface and short life by Miss
Betham Edwards. She has since (1898) published his autobiography. See also the autobiographical
sketch in the Annals of Agriculture, xv. 152-97. Young's Farmer's Letters first appeared in
1767; his Tours in the Southern, Northern, and Eastern Counties in 1768, 1770, and 1771; his
Tour in Ireland in 1780; and his Travels in France in 1792. A useful bibliography, containing
a list of his many publications, is appended to the edition of the Tour in Ireland edited by
Mr. A. W. Hutton in 1892.

[36] Annals, xv. 166.

[37] Travels in France (1892), p. 184 n.

[38] Travels in France, p. 54.

[39] Ibid. p. 109.

[40] Ibid. p. 61.

[41] Ibid. p. 70.

[42] Ibid. p. 279.

[43] Travels in France, p. 125.

[44] Ibid. p. 131.

[45] Ibid. pp. 198, 298.

[46] Ibid. pp. 55, 193, 199, 237.

[47] Ibid. p. 43.

[48] Travels in France, pp. 291-92.

[49] Ibid. p. 132.

[50] Ibid. p. 66.

[51] Ibid. p. 131.

[52] e.g. Southern Tour, p. 103; Northern Tour, p. 180 (York Cathedral).

[53] Northern Tour, iv. 344, 377.

[54] Irish Tour, ii. 114.

[55] Southern Tour, p. 326.

[56] Southern Tour, p. 22.

[57] Annals, i. 380.

[58] Ibid. vol, x.

[59] Ibid. iv. 17.

[60] Southern Tour, p. 262; Northern Tour, ii. 412.

[61] Northern Tour, iv. 410, etc.

[62] Irish Tour, ii. 118-19.

[63] Memoirs of Sir John Sinclair, by his son. 2 vols., 1837.

[64] Memoirs, i. 338.

[65] A New Statistical Account, replacing this, appeared in twenty-four volumes from 1834 to 1844.

[66] He was president for the first five years, and again, from 1806 till 1813. For an account
of this, see Sir Ernest Clarke's History of the Board of Agriculture, 1898.

[67] Northern Tour, i. 222-32.

[68] Northern Tour, ii. 186.

[69] Southern Tour, p. 20.

[70] Northern Tour, iii. 365.

[71] Arthur Young had a low opinion of Sinclair, whom he took to be a pushing and consequential
busybody, more anxious to make a noise than to be useful. See Young's Autobiography (1898),
pp. 243, 315, 437. Sir Ernest Clarke points out the injury done by Sinclair's hasty and blundering
extravagance; but also shows that the board did great service in stimulating agricultural improvement.

[72] Scott's Letters, i. 202.

[73] Essay on 'Turgot.' See, in Daire's Collection of the Économistes, the arguments of Quesnay
(p. 81), Dupont de Nemours (p. 360), and Mercier de la Rivière in favour of a legal (as distinguished
from an 'arbitrary') despotism.

CHAPTER III

SOCIAL PROBLEMS

I. PAUPERISM

Perhaps the gravest of all the problems which were to occupy the coming generation was the
problem of pauperism. The view taken by the Utilitarians was highly characteristic and important.
I will try to indicate the general position of intelligent observers at the end of the century
by referring to the remarkable book of Sir Frederick Morton Eden. Its purport is explained
by the title: 'The State of the Poor; or, an History of the Labouring Classes of England from
the Norman Conquest to the present period; in which are particularly considered their domestic
economy, with respect to diet, dress, fuel, and habitation; and the various plans which have
from time to time been proposed and adopted for the relief of the poor' (3 vols. 4to, 1797).
Eden[74] (1766-1809) was a man of good family and nephew of the first Lord Auckland, who negotiated
Pitt's commercial treaty. He graduated as B.A. from Christ Church, Oxford, in 1787; married
in 1792, and at his death (14th Nov. 1809) was chairman of the Globe Insurance Company. He
wrote various pamphlets upon economical topics; contributed letters signed 'Philanglus' to
Cobbett's Porcupine, the anti-jacobin paper of the day; and is described by Bentham[75] as
a 'declared disciple' and a 'highly valued friend.' He may be reckoned, therefore, as a Utilitarian,
though politically he was a Conservative. He seems to have been a man of literary tastes as
well as a man of business, and his book is a clear and able statement of the points at issue.

Eden's attention had been drawn to the subject by the distress which followed the outbreak
of the revolutionary war. He employed an agent who travelled through the country for a year
with a set of queries drawn up after the model of those prepared by Sinclair for his Statistical
Account of Scotland. He thus anticipated the remarkable investigation made in our own time
by Mr. Charles Booth. Eden made personal inquiries and studied the literature of the subject.
He had a precursor in Richard Burn (1709-1785), whose History of the Poor-laws appeared in
1764, and a competitor in John Ruggles, whose History of the Poor first appeared in Arthur
Young's Annals, and was published as a book in 1793 (second edition, 1797). Eden's work eclipsed
Ruggles's. It has a permanent value as a collection of facts; and was a sign of the growing
sense of the importance of accurate statistical research. The historian of the social condition
of the people should be grateful to one who broke ground at a time when the difficulty of obtaining
a sound base for social inquiries began to make itself generally felt. The value of the book
for historical purposes lies beyond my sphere. His first volume, I may say, gives a history
of legislation from the earliest period; and contains also a valuable account of the voluminous
literature which had grown up during the two preceding centuries. The other two summarise the
reports which he had received. I will only say enough to indicate certain critical points.
Eden's book unfortunately was to mark, not a solution of the difficulty but, the emergence
of a series of problems which were to increase in complexity and ominous significance through
the next generation.

The general history of the poor-law is sufficiently familiar.[76] The mediæval statutes take
us to a period at which the labourer was still regarded as a serf; and a man who had left his
village was treated like a fugitive slave. A long series of statutes regulated the treatment
of the 'vagabond.' The vagabond, however, had become differentiated from the pauper. The decay
of the ancient order of society and its corresponding institutions had led to a new set of
problems; and the famous statute of Elizabeth (1601) had laid down the main lines of the system
which is still in operation.

When the labourer was regarded as in a servile condition, he might be supported from the motives
which lead an owner to support his slaves, or by the charitable energies organised by ecclesiastical
institutions. He had now ceased to be a serf, and the institutions which helped the poor man
or maintained the beggar were wrecked. The Elizabethan statute gave him, therefore, a legal
claim to be supported, and, on the other hand, directed that he should be made to work for
his living. The assumption is still that every man is a member of a little social circle. He
belongs to his parish, and it is his fellow-parishioners who are bound to support him. So long
as this corresponded to facts, the system could work satisfactorily. With the spread of commerce,
and the growth of a less settled population, difficulties necessarily arose. The pauper and
the vagabond represent a kind of social extravasation; the 'masterless man' who has strayed
from his legitimate place or has become a superfluity in his own circle. The vagabond could
be flogged, sent to prison, or if necessary hanged, but it was more difficult to settle what
to do with a man who was not a criminal, but simply a product in excess of demand. All manner
of solutions had been suggested by philanthropists and partly adopted by the legislature. One
point which especially concerns us is the awkwardness or absence of an appropriate administrative
machinery.

The parish, the unit on which the pauper had claims, meant the persons upon whom the poor-rate
was assessed. These were mainly farmers and small tradesmen who formed the rather vague body
called the vestry. 'Overseers' were appointed by the ratepayers themselves; they were not paid,
and the disagreeable office was taken in turn for short periods. The most obvious motive with
the average ratepayer was of course to keep down the rates and to get the burthen of the poor
as much as possible out of his own parish. Each parish had at least an interest in economy.
But the economical interest also produced flagrant evils.

In the first place, there was the war between parishes. The law of settlement--which was to
decide to what parish a pauper belonged--originated in an act of 1662. Eden observes that the
short clause in this short act had brought more profit to the lawyers than 'any other point
in the English jurisprudence.'[77] It is said that the expense of such a litigation before
the act of 1834 averaged from £300,000 to £350,000 a year.[78] Each parish naturally endeavoured
to shift the burthen upon its neighbours; and was protected by laws which enabled it to resist
the immigration of labourers or actually to expel them when likely to become chargeable. This
law is denounced by Adam Smith[79] as a 'violation of natural liberty and justice.' It was
often harder, he declared, for a poor man to cross the artificial boundaries of his parish
than to cross a mountain ridge or an arm of the sea. There was, he declared, hardly a poor
man in England over forty who had not been at some time 'cruelly oppressed' by the working
of this law. Eden thinks that Smith had exaggerated the evil: but a law which operated by preventing
a free circulation of labour, and made it hard for a poor man to seek the best price for his
only saleable commodity, was, so far, opposed to the fundamental principles common to Smith
and Eden. The law, too, might be used oppressively by the niggardly and narrow-minded. The
overseer, as Burn complained,[80] was often a petty tyrant: his aim was to depopulate his parish;
to prevent the poor from obtaining a settlement; to make the workhouse a terror by placing
it under the management of a bully; and by all kinds of chicanery to keep down the rates at
whatever cost to the comfort and morality of the poor. This explains the view taken by Arthur
Young, and generally accepted at the period, that the poor-law meant depopulation. Workhouses
had been started in the seventeenth century[81] with the amiable intention of providing the
industrious poor with work. Children might be trained to industry and the pauper might be made
self-supporting. Workhouses were expected that is, to provide not only work but wages. Defoe,
in his Giving Alms no Charity, pointed out the obvious objections to the workhouse considered
as an institution capable of competing with the ordinary industries. Workhouses, in fact, soon
ceased to be profitable. Their value, however, in supplying a test for destitution was recognised;
and by an act of 1722, parishes were allowed to set up workhouses, separately or in combination,
and to strike off the lists of the poor those who refused to enter them. This was the germ
of the later 'workhouse test.'[82] When grievances arose, the invariable plan, as Nicholls
observes,[83] was to increase the power of the justices. Their discretion was regarded 'as
a certain cure for every shortcoming of the law and every evil arising out of it.' The great
report of 1834 traces this tendency[84] to a clause in an act passed in the reign of William
III., which was intended to allow the justices to check the extravagance of parish officers.
They were empowered to strike off persons improperly relieved. This incidental regulation,
widened by subsequent interpretations, allowed the magistrates to order relief, and thereby
introduced an incredible amount of demoralisation.

The course was natural enough, and indeed apparently inevitable. The justices of the peace
represented the only authority which could be called in to regulate abuses arising from the
incapacity and narrow local interests of the multitudinous vestries. The schemes of improvement
generally involved some plan for a larger area. If a hundred or a county were taken for the
unit, the devices which depopulated a parish would no longer be applicable.[85] The only scheme
actually carried was embodied in 'Gilbert's act' (1782), obtained by Thomas Gilbert (1720-1798),
an agent of the duke of Bridgewater, and an active advocate of poor-law reform in the House
of Commons. This scheme was intended as a temporary expedient during the distress caused by
the American War; and a larger and more permanent scheme which it was to introduce failed to
become law. It enabled parishes to combine if they chose to provide common workhouses, and
to appoint 'guardians.' The justices, as usual, received more powers in order to suppress the
harsh dealing of the old parochial authorities. The guardians, it was assumed, could always
find 'work,' and they were to relieve the able-bodied without applying the workhouse test.
The act, readily adopted, thus became a landmark in the growth of laxity.[86]

At the end of the century a rapid development of pauperism had taken place. The expense, as
Eden had to complain, had doubled in twenty years. This took place simultaneously with the
great development of manufactures. It is not perhaps surprising, though it may be melancholy,
that increase of wealth shall be accompanied by increase of pauperism. Where there are many
rich men, there will be a better field for thieves and beggars. A life of dependence becomes
easier though it need not necessarily be adopted. Whatever may have been the relation of the
two phenomena, the social revolution made the old social arrangements more inadequate. Great
aggregations of workmen were formed in towns, which were still only villages in a legal sense.
Fluctuations of trade, due to war or speculation, brought distress to the improvident; and
the old assumption that every man had a proper place in a small circle, where his neighbours
knew all about him, was further than ever from being verified. One painful result was already
beginning to show itself. Neglected children in great towns had already excited compassion.
Thomas Coram (1668?-1751) had been shocked by the sight of dying children exposed in the streets
of London, and succeeded in establishing the Foundling Hospital (founded in 1742). In 1762,
Jonas Hanway (1712-1786) obtained a law for boarding out children born within the bills of
mortality. The demand for children's labour, produced by the factories, seemed naturally enough
to offer a better chance for extending such charities. Unfortunately among the people who took
advantage of it were parish officials, eager to get children off their hands, and manufacturers
concerned only to make money out of childish labour. Hence arose the shameful system for which
remedies (as I shall have to notice) had to be sought in a later generation.

Meanwhile the outbreak of the revolutionary war had made the question urgent. When Manchester
trade suffered, as Eden tells us in his reports, many workmen enlisted in the army, and left
their children to be supported by the parish. Bad seasons followed in 1794 and 1795, and there
was great distress in the agricultural districts. The governing classes became alarmed. In
December 1795 Whitbread introduced a bill providing that the justices of the peace should fix
a minimum rate of wages. Upon a motion for the second reading, Pitt made the famous speech
(12th December) including the often-quoted statement that when a man had a family, relief should
be 'a matter of right and honour, instead of a ground of opprobrium and contempt.'[87] Pitt
had in the same speech shown his reading of Adam Smith by dwelling upon the general objections
to state interference with wages, and had argued that more was to be gained by removing the
restrictions upon the free movement of labour. He undertook to produce a comprehensive measure;
and an elaborate bill of 130 clauses was prepared in 1796.[88] The rates were to be used to
supplement inadequate wages; 'schools of industry' were to be formed for the support of superabundant
children; loans might be made to the poor for the purchase of a cow;[89] and the possession
of property was not to disqualify for the receiving relief. In short, the bill seems to have
been a model of misapplied benevolence. The details were keenly criticised by Bentham, and
the bill never came to the birth. Other topics were pressing enough at this time to account
for the failure of a measure so vast in its scope. Meanwhile something had to be done. On 6th
May 1795 the Berkshire magistrates had passed certain resolutions called from their place of
meeting, the 'Speenhamland Act of Parliament.' They provided that the rate of wages of a labourer
should be increased in proportion to the price of corn and to the number of his family--a rule
which, as Eden observes, tended to discourage economy of food in times of scarcity. They also
sanctioned the disastrous principle of paying part of the wages out of rates. An act passed
in 1796 repealed the old restrictions upon out-door relief; and thus, during the hard times
that were to follow, the poor-laws were adapted to produce the state of things in which, as
Cobbett says (in 1821) 'every labourer who has children is now regularly and constantly a pauper.'[90]
The result represents a curious compromise. The landowners, whether from benevolence or fear
of revolution, desired to meet the terrible distress of the times. Unfortunately their spasmodic
interference was guided by no fixed principles, and acted upon a class of institutions not
organised upon any definite system. The general effect seems to have been that the ratepayers,
no longer allowed to 'depopulate,' sought to turn the compulsory stream of charity partly into
their own pockets. If they were forced to support paupers, they could contrive to save the
payment of wages. They could use the labour of the rate-supported pauper instead of employing
independent workmen. The evils thus produced led before long to most important discussions.[91]
The ordinary view of the poor-law was inverted. The prominent evil was the reckless increase
of a degraded population instead of the restriction of population. Eden's own view is sufficiently
indicative of the light in which the facts showed themselves to intelligent economists. As
a disciple of Adam Smith, he accepts the rather vague doctrine of his master about the 'balance'
between labour and capital. If labour exceeds capital, he says, the labourer must starve 'in
spite of all political regulations.'[92] He therefore looks with disfavour upon the whole poor-law
system. It is too deeply rooted to be abolished, but he thinks that the amount to be raised
should not be permitted to exceed the sum levied on an average of previous years. The only
certain result of Pitt's measure would be a vast expenditure upon a doubtful experiment: and
one main purpose of his publication was to point out the objections to the plan. He desires
what seemed at that time to be almost hopeless, a national system of education; but his main
doctrine is the wisdom of reliance upon individual effort. The truth of the maxim 'pas trop
gouverner,' he says,[93] has never been better illustrated than by the contrast between friendly
societies and the poor-laws. Friendly societies had been known, though they were still on a
humble scale, from the beginning of the century, and had tended to diminish pauperism in spite
of the poor-laws. Eden gives many accounts of them. They seem to have suggested a scheme proposed
by the worthy Francis Maseres[94] (1731-1824) in 1772 for the establishment of life annuities.
A bill to give effect to this scheme passed the House of Commons in 1773 with the support of
Burke and Savile, but was thrown out in the House of Lords. In 1786 John Acland (died 1796),
a Devonshire clergyman and justice of the peace, proposed a scheme for uniting the whole nation
into a kind of friendly society for the support of the poor when out of work and in old age.
It was criticised by John Howlett (1731-1804), a clergyman who wrote much upon the poor-laws.
He attributes the growth of pauperism to the rise of prices, and calculates that out of an
increased expenditure of £700,000, £219,000 had been raised by the rich, and the remainder
'squeezed out of the flesh, blood, and bones of the poor,' An act for establishing Acland's
crude scheme failed next year in parliament.[95] The merit of the societies, according to Eden,
was their tendency to stimulate self-help; and how to preserve that merit, while making them
compulsory, was a difficult problem. I have said enough to mark a critical and characteristic
change of opinion. One source of evil pointed out by contemporaries had been the absence of
any central power which could regulate and systematise the action of the petty local bodies.
The very possibility of such organisation, however, seems to have been simply inconceivable.
When the local bodies became lavish instead of over-frugal, the one remedy suggested was to
abolish the system altogether.

NOTES:

[74] See Dictionary of National Biography.

[75] Works, i. 255.

[76] See Sir G. Nicholls's History of the Poor-law, 1854. A new edition, with life by H. G.
Willink, appeared in 1898.

[77] History, i. 175.

[78] M'Culloch's note to Wealth of Nations, p. 65. M'Culloch in his appendix makes some sensible
remarks upon the absence of any properly constituted parochial 'tribunal.'

[79] Wealth of Nations, bk. i. ch. x.

[80] See passage quoted in Eden's History, i. 347.

[81] Thomas Firmin (1632-1677), a philanthropist, whose Socinianism did not exclude him from
the friendship of such liberal bishops as Tillotson and Fowler, started a workhouse in 1676.

[82] Nicholls (1898), ii. 14.

[83] Ibid. (1898), ii. 123.

[84] Report, p. 67.

[85] William Hay, for example, carried resolutions in the House of Commons in 1735, but failed
to carry a bill which had this object. See Eden's History, i. 396. Cooper in 1763 proposed
to make the hundred the unit.--Nicholls's History, i. 58. Fielding proposes a similar change
in London. Dean Tucker speaks of the evil of the limited area in his Manifold Causes of the
Increase of the Poor (1760).

[86] Nicholls, ii. 88.

[87] Parl. Hist. xxxii. 710.

[88] A full abstract is given in Edens History, iii. ccclxiii. etc.

[89] Bentham observes (Works, viii. 448) that the cow will require the three acres to keep it.

[90] Cobbett's Political Works, vi. 64

[91] I need only note here that the first edition of Malthus's Essay appeared in 1798, the
year after Eden's publication.

[92] Eden's History, i. 583.

[93] Ibid. i. 587.

[94] Maseres, an excellent Whig, a good mathematician, and a respected lawyer, is perhaps best
known at present from his portrait in Charles Lamb's Old Benchers.

[95] It maybe noticed as an anticipation of modern schemes that in 1792 Paine proposed a system
of 'old age pensions,' for which the necessary funds were to be easily obtained when universal
peace had abolished all military charges. See State Trials, xxv. 175.

II. THE POLICE

The system of 'self-government' showed its weak side in this direction. It meant that an important
function was intrusted to small bodies, quite incompetent of acting upon general principles,
and perfectly capable of petty jobbing, when unrestrained by any effective supervision. In
another direction the same tendency was even more strikingly illustrated. Municipal institutions
were almost at their lowest point of decay. Manchester and Birmingham were two of the largest
and most rapidly growing towns. By the end of the century Manchester had a population of 90,000
and Birmingham of 70,000. Both were ruled, as far as they were ruled, by the remnants of old
manorial institutions. Aikin[96] observes that 'Manchester (in 1795) remains an open town;
destitute (probably to its advantage) of a corporation, and unrepresented in parliament.' It
was governed by a 'boroughreeve' and two constables elected annually at the court-leet. William
Hutton, the quaint historian of Birmingham, tells us in 1783 that the town was still legally
a village, with a high and low bailiff, a 'high and low taster,' two 'affeerers,' and two 'leather-sealers,'
In 1752 it had been provided with a 'court of requests' for the recovery of small debts, and
in 1769 with a body of commissioners to provide for lighting the town. This was the system
by which, with some modifications, Birmingham was governed till after the Reform Bill.[97]
Hutton boasts[98] that no town was better governed or had fewer officers. 'A town without a
charter,' he says, 'is a town without a shackle.' Perhaps he changed his opinions when his
warehouses were burnt in 1791, and the town was at the mercy of the mob till a regiment of
'light horse' could be called in. Aikin and Hutton, however, reflect the general opinion at
a time when the town corporations had become close and corrupt bodies, and were chiefly 'shackles'
upon the energy of active members of the community. I must leave the explanation of this decay
to historians. I will only observe that what would need explanation would seem to be rather
the absence than the presence of corruption. The English borough was not stimulated by any
pressure from a central government; nor was it a semi-independent body in which every citizen
had the strongest motives for combining to support its independence against neighbouring towns
or invading nobles. The lower classes were ignorant, and probably would be rather hostile than
favourable to any such modest interference with dirt and disorder as would commend themselves
to the officials. Naturally, power was left to the little cliques of prosperous tradesmen,
who formed close corporations, and spent the revenues upon feasts or squandered them by corrupt
practices. Here, as in the poor-law, the insufficiency of the administrative body suggests
to contemporaries, not its reform, but its superfluity.

The most striking account of some of the natural results is in Colquhoun's[99] Treatise on
the Police of the Metropolis. Patrick Colquhoun (1745-1820), an energetic Scot, was born at
Dumbarton in 1745, had been in business at Glasgow, where he was provost in 1782 and 1783,
and in 1789 settled in London. In 1792 he obtained through Dundas an appointment to one of
the new police magistracies created by an act of that year. He took an active part in many
schemes of social reform; and his book gives an account of the investigations by which his
schemes were suggested and justified. It must be said, however, parenthetically, that his statistics
scarcely challenge implicit confidence. Like Sinclair and Eden, he saw the importance of obtaining
facts and figures, but his statements are suspiciously precise and elaborate.[100] The broad
facts are clear enough.

London was, he says, three miles broad and twenty-five in circumference. The population in
1801 was 641,000. It was the largest town, and apparently the most chaotic collection of dwellings
in the civilised world. There were, as Colquhoun asserts[101] in an often-quoted passage, 20,000
people in it, who got up every morning without knowing how they would get through the day.
There were 5000 public-houses, and 50,000 women supported, wholly or partly, by prostitution.
The revenues raised by crime amounted, as he calculates, to an annual sum of, £2,000,000. There
were whole classes of professional thieves, more or less organised in gangs, which acted in
support of each other. There were gangs on the river, who boarded ships at night, or lay in
wait round the warehouses. The government dockyards were systematically plundered, and the
same article often sold four times over to the officials. The absence of patrols gave ample
chance to the highwaymen then peculiar to England. Their careers, commemorated in the Newgate
Calendar, had a certain flavour of Robin Hood romance, and their ranks were recruited from
dissipated apprentices and tradesmen in difficulty. The fields round London were so constantly
plundered that the rent was materially lowered. Half the hackney coachmen, he says,[102] were
in league with thieves. The number of receiving houses for stolen goods had increased in twenty
years from 300 to 3000.[103] Coining was a flourishing trade, and according to Colquhoun employed
several thousand persons.[104] Gambling had taken a fresh start about 1777 and 1778[105]; and
the keepers of tables had always money enough at command to make convictions almost impossible.
French refugees at the revolution had introduced rouge et noir; and Colquhoun estimates the
sums yearly lost in gambling-houses at over £7,000,000. The gamblers might perhaps appeal not
only to the practices of their betters in the days of Fox, but to the public lotteries. Colquhoun
had various correspondents, who do not venture to propose the abolition of a system which sanctioned
the practice, but who hope to diminish the facility for supplementary betting on the results
of the official drawing.

The war had tended to increase the number of loose and desperate marauders who swarmed in the
vast labyrinth of London streets. When we consider the nature of the police by which these
evils were to be checked, and the criminal law which they administered, the wonder is less
that there were sometimes desperate riots (as in 1780) than that London should have been ever
able to resist a mob. Colquhoun, though a patriotic Briton, has to admit that the French despots
had at last created an efficient police. The emperor, Joseph II., he says, inquired for an
Austrian criminal supposed to have escaped to Paris. You will find him, replied the head of
the French police, at No. 93 of such a street in Vienna on the second-floor room looking upon
such a church; and there he was. In England a criminal could hide himself in a herd of his
like, occasionally disturbed by the inroad of a 'Bow Street runner,' the emissary of the 'trading
justices,' formerly represented by the two Fieldings. An act of 1792 created seven new offices,
to one of which Colquhoun had been appointed. They had one hundred and eighty-nine paid officers
under them. There were also about one thousand constables. These were small tradesmen or artisans
upon whom the duty was imposed without remuneration for a year by their parish, that is, by
one of seventy independent bodies. A 'Tyburn ticket,' given in reward for obtaining the conviction
of a criminal exempted a man from the discharge of such offices, and could be bought for from
£15 to £25. There were also two thousand watchmen receiving from 8-1/2d. up to 2s. a night.
These were the true successors of Dogberry; often infirm or aged persons appointed to keep
them out of the workhouse. The management of this distracted force thus depended upon a miscellaneous
set of bodies; the paid magistrates, the officials of the city, the justices of the peace for
Middlesex, and the seventy independent parishes.

The law was as defective as the administration. Colquhoun represents the philanthropic impulse
of the day, and notices[106] that in 1787 Joseph II. had abolished capital punishment. His
chief authority for more merciful methods is Beccaria; and it is worth remarking, for reasons
which will appear hereafter, that he does not in this connection refer to Bentham, although
he speaks enthusiastically[107] of Bentham's model prison, the Panopticon. Colquhoun shows
how strangely the severity of the law was combined with its extreme capaciousness. He quotes
Bacon[108] for the statement that the law was a 'heterogeneous mass concocted too often on
the spur of the moment,' and gives sufficient proofs of its truth. He desires, for example,
a law to punish receivers of stolen goods, and says that there were excellent laws in existence.
Unfortunately one law applied exclusively to the case of pewter-pots, and another exclusively
to the precious metals; neither could be used as against receivers of horses or bank notes.[109]
So a man indicted under an act against stealing from ships on navigable rivers escaped, because
the barge from which he stole happened to be aground. Gangs could afford to corrupt witnesses
or to pay knavish lawyers skilled in applying these vagaries of legislation. Juries also disliked
convicting when the penalty for coining sixpence was the same as the penalty for killing a
mother. It followed, as he shows by statistics, that half the persons committed for trial escaped
by petty chicanery or corruption, or the reluctance of juries to convict for capital offences.
Only about one-fifth of the capital sentences were executed; and many were pardoned on condition
of enlisting to improve the morals of the army. The criminals, who were neither hanged nor
allowed to escape, were sent to prisons, which were schools of vice. After the independence
of the American colonies, the system of transportation to Australia had begun (in 1787); but
the expense was enormous, and prisoners were huddled together in the hulks at Woolwich and
Portsmouth, which had been used as a temporary expedient. Thence they were constantly discharged,
to return to their old practices. A man, says Colquhoun,[110] would deserve a statue who should
carry out a plan for helping discharged prisoners. To meet these evils, Colquhoun proposes
various remedies, such as a metropolitan police, a public prosecutor, or even a codification
or revision of the Criminal Code, which he sees is likely to be delayed. He also suggested,
in a pamphlet of 1799, a kind of charity organisation society to prevent the waste of funds.
Many other pamphlets of similar tendencies show his active zeal in promoting various reforms.
Colquhoun was in close correspondence with Bentham from the year 1798,[111] and Bentham helped
him by drawing the Thames Police Act, passed in 1800, to give effect to some of the suggestions
in the Treatise.[112]

Another set of abuses has a special connection with Bentham's activity. Bentham had been led
in 1778 to attend to the prison question by reading Howard's book on Prisons; and he refers
to the 'venerable friend who had lived an apostle and died a martyr.'[113] The career of John
Howard (1726-1790) is familiar. The son of a London tradesman, he had inherited an estate in
Bedfordshire. There he erected model cottages and village schools; and, on becoming sheriff
of the county in 1773, was led to attend to abuses in the prisons. Two acts of parliament were
passed in 1774 to remedy some of the evils exposed, and he pursued the inquiry at home and
abroad. His results are given in his State of the Prisons in England and Wales (1779, fourth
edition, 1792), and his Account of the Principal Lazarettos in Europe (1789). The prisoners,
he says, had little food, sometimes a penny loaf a day, and sometimes nothing; no water, no
fresh air, no sewers, and no bedding. The stench was appalling, and gaol fever killed more
than died on the gallows. Debtors and felons, men, women and children, were huddled together;
often with lunatics, who were shown by the gaolers for money. 'Garnish' was extorted; the gaolers
kept drinking-taps; gambling flourished: and prisoners were often cruelly ironed, and kept
for long periods before trial. At Hull the assizes had only been held once in seven years,
and afterwards once in three. It is a comfort to find that the whole number of prisoners in
England and Wales amounted, in 1780, to about 4400, 2078 of whom were debtors, 798 felons,
and 917 petty offenders. An act passed in 1779 provided for the erection of two penitentiaries.
Howard was to be a supervisor. The failure to carry out this act led, as we shall see, to one
of Bentham's most characteristic undertakings. One peculiarity must be noted. Howard found
prisons on the continent where the treatment was bad and torture still occasionally practised;
but he nowhere found things so bad as in England. In Holland the prisons were so neat and clean
as to make it difficult to believe that they were prisons: and they were used as models for
the legislation of 1779. One cause of this unenviable distinction of English prisons had been
indicated by an earlier investigation. General Oglethorpe (1696-1785) had been started in his
philanthropic career by obtaining a committee of the House of Commons in 1729 to inquire into
the state of the gaols. The foundation of the colony of Georgia as an outlet for the population
was one result of the inquiry. It led, in the first place, however, to a trial of persons accused
of atrocious cruelties at the Fleet prison.[114] The trial was abortive. It appeared in the
course of the proceedings that the Fleet prison was a 'freehold,' A patent for rebuilding it
had been granted to Sir Jeremy Whichcot under Charles II., and had been sold to one Higgins,
who resold it to other persons for £5000. The proprietors made their investment pay by cruel
ill-treatment of the prisoners, oppressing the poor and letting off parts of the prison to
dealers in drink. This was the general plan in the prisons examined by Howard, and helps to
account for the gross abuses. It is one more application of the general system. As the patron
was owner of a living, and the officer of his commission, the keeper of a prison was owner
of his establishment. The paralysis of administration which prevailed throughout the country
made it natural to farm out paupers to the master of a workhouse, and prisoners to the proprietor
of a gaol. The state of prisoners may be inferred not only from Howard's authentic record but
from the fictions of Fielding, Smollett and Goldsmith; and the last echoes of the same complaints
may be found in Pickwick and Little Dorrit. The Marshalsea described in the last was also a
proprietary concern. We shall hereafter see how Bentham proposed to treat the evils revealed
by Oglethorpe and Howard.

NOTES:

[96] Aikin's Country Round Manchester.

[97] Bunce's History of the Corporation of Birmingham (1878).

[98] History of Birmingham (2nd edition), p. 327.

[99] The first edition, 1795, the sixth, from which I quote, in 1800. In Benthams Works, x.
330, it is said that in 1798, 7500 copies of this book had been sold.

[100] In 1814 Colquhoun published an elaborate account of the Resources of the British Empire,
showing similar qualities.

[101] Police, p. 310.

[102] Police, p. 105.

[103] Ibid. p. 13.

[104] Ibid. p. 211.

[105] Ibid. p. 136.

[106] Police, p. 60.

[107] Ibid. p. 481.

[108] Ibid. p. 7.

[109] Ibid. p. 298.

[110] Police, p. 99.

[111] Bentham's Works, x. 329 seq.

[112] Ibid. v. 335.

[113] Bentham's Works, iv. 3, 121.

[114] Cobbett's State Trials, xvii. 297-626.

III. EDUCATION

Another topic treated by Colquhoun marks the initial stage of controversies which were soon
to grow warm. Colquhoun boasts of the number of charities for which London was already conspicuous.
A growing facility for forming associations of all kinds, political, religious, scientific,
and charitable, is an obvious characteristic of modern progress. Where in earlier times a college
or a hospital had to be endowed by a founder and invested by charter with corporate personality,
it is now necessary only to call a meeting, form a committee, and appeal for subscriptions.
Societies of various kinds had sprung up during the century. Artists, men of science, agriculturists,
and men of literary tastes, had founded innumerable academies and 'philosophical institutes.'
The great London hospitals, dependent upon voluntary subscriptions, had been founded during
the first half of the century. Colquhoun counts the annual revenue of various charitable institutions
at £445,000, besides which the endowments produced £150,000, and the poor-rates £255,000.[115]
Among these a considerable number were intended to promote education. Here, as in some other
cases, it seems that people at the end of the century were often taking up an impulse given
a century before. So the Society for promoting Christian Knowledge, founded in 1699, and the
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, founded in 1701, were supplemented by the Church
Missionary Society and the Religious Tract Society, both founded in 1799. The societies for
the reformation of manners, prevalent at the end of the seventeenth century, were taken as
a model by Wilberforce and his friends at the end of the eighteenth.[116] In the same way,
the first attempts at providing a general education for the poor had been made by Archbishop
Tenison, who founded a parochial school about 1680 in order 'to check the growth of popery.'
Charity schools became common during the early part of the eighteenth century and received
various endowments. They were attacked as tending to teach the poor too much--a very needless
alarm--and also by free thinkers, such as Mandeville, as intended outworks of the established
church. This last objection was a foretaste of the bitter religious controversies which were
to accompany the growth of an educational system. Colquhoun says that there were 62 endowed
schools in London, from Christ's Hospital downwards, educating about 5000 children; 237 parish
schools with about 9000 children, and 3730 'private schools.' The teaching was, of course,
very imperfect, and in a report of a committee of the House of Commons in 1818, it is calculated
that about half the children in a large district were entirely uneducated. There was, of course,
nothing in England deserving the name of a system in educational more than in any other matters.
The grammar schools throughout the country provided more or less for the classes which could
not aspire to the public schools and universities. About a third of the boys at Christ's Hospital
were, as Coleridge tells us, sons of clergymen.[117] The children of the poor were either not
educated, or picked up their letters at some charity school or such a country dame's school
as is described by Shenstone. A curious proof, however, of rising interest in the question
is given by the Sunday Schools movement at the end of the century. Robert Raikes (1735-1811),
a printer in Gloucester and proprietor of a newspaper, joined with a clergyman to set up a
school in 1780 at a total cost of 1s. 6d. a week. Within three or four years the plan was taken
up everywhere, and the worthy Raikes, whose newspaper had spread the news, found himself revered
as a great pioneer of philanthropy. Wesley took up the scheme warmly; bishops condescended
to approve; the king and queen were interested, and within three or four years the number of
learners was reckoned at two or three hundred thousand. A Sunday School Association was formed
in 1785 with well known men of business at its head. Queen Charlotte's friend, Mrs. Trimmer
(1741-1810), took up the work near London, and Hannah More (1745-1833) in Somersetshire. Hannah
More gives a strange account of the utter absence of any civilising agencies in the district
around Cheddar where she and her sisters laboured. She was accused of 'methodism' and a leaning
to Jacobinism, although her views were of the most moderate kind. She wished the poor to be
able to read their Bibles and to be qualified for domestic duties, but not to write or to be
enabled to read Tom Paine or be encouraged to rise above their position. The literary light
of the Whigs, Dr. Parr (1747-1825), showed his liberality by arguing that the poor ought to
be taught, but admitted that the enterprise had its limits. The 'Deity Himself had fixed a
great gulph between them and the poor.' A scanty instruction given on Sundays alone was not
calculated to facilitate the passage of that gulf. By the end of the century, however, signs
of a more systematic movement were showing themselves. Bell and Lancaster, of whom I shall
have to speak, were rival claimants for the honour of initiating a new departure in education.
The controversy which afterwards raged between the supporters of the two systems marked a complete
revolution of opinion. Meanwhile, although the need of schools was beginning to be felt, the
appliances for education in England were a striking instance of the general inefficiency in
every department which needed combined action. In Scotland the system of parish schools was
one obvious cause of the success of so many of the Scotsmen which excited the jealousy of southern
competitors. Even in Ireland there appears to have been a more efficient set of schools. And
yet, one remark must be suggested. There is probably no period in English history at which
a greater number of poor men have risen to distinction. The greatest beyond comparison of self-taught
poets was Burns (1759-1796). The political writer who was at the time producing the most marked
effect was Thomas Paine (1737-1809), son of a small tradesman. His successor in influence was
William Cobbett (1762-1835), son of an agricultural labourer, and one of the pithiest of all
English writers. William Gifford (1756-1826), son of a small tradesman in Devonshire, was already
known as a satirist and was to lead Conservatives as editor of the The Quarterly Review. John
Dalton (1766-1842), son of a poor weaver, was one of the most distinguished men of science.
Porson (1759-1808), the greatest Greek scholar of his time, was son of a Norfolk parish clerk,
though sagacious patrons had sent him to Eton in his fifteenth year. The Oxford professor of
Arabic, Joseph White (1746-1814), was son of a poor weaver in the country and a man of reputation
for learning, although now remembered only for a rather disreputable literary squabble. Robert
Owen and Joseph Lancaster, both sprung from the ranks, were leaders in social movements. I
have already spoken of such men as Watt, Telford, and Rennie; and smaller names might be added
in literature, science, and art. The individualist virtue of 'self-help' was not confined to
successful money-making or to the wealthier classes. One cause of the literary excellence of
Burns, Paine, and Cobbett may be that, when literature was less centralised, a writer was less
tempted to desert his natural dialect. I mention the fact, however, merely to suggest that,
whatever were then the difficulties of getting such schooling as is now common, an energetic
lad even in the most neglected regions might force his way to the front.

NOTES:

[115] Police, p. 340.

[116] Wilberforce started on this plan a 'society for enforcing the king's proclamation' in
1786, which was supplemented by the society for 'the Suppression of Vice' in 1802. I don't
suppose that vice was much suppressed. Sydney Smith ridiculed its performances in the Edinburgh
for 1809. The article is in his works. A more interesting society was that for 'bettering the
condition of the poor,' started by Sir Thomas Bernard and Wilberforce in 1796.

[117] Biographia Literaria (1847), ii. 327.

IV. THE SLAVE-TRADE

I have thus noticed the most conspicuous of the contemporary problems which, as we shall see,
provided the main tasks of Bentham and his followers. One other topic must be mentioned as
in more ways than one characteristic of the spirit of the time. The parliamentary attack upon
the slave-trade began just before the outbreak of the revolution. It is generally described
as an almost sudden awakening of the national conscience. That it appealed to that faculty
is undeniable, and, moreover, it is at least a remarkable instance of legislative action upon
purely moral grounds. It is true that in this case the conscience was the less impeded because
it was roused chiefly by the sins of men's neighbours. The slave-trading class was a comparative
excrescence. Their trade could be attacked without such widespread interference with the social
order as was implied, for example, in remedying the grievances of paupers or of children in
factories. The conflict with morality, again, was so plain as to need no demonstration. It
seems to be a questionable logic which assumes the merit of a reformer to be in proportion
to the flagrancy of the evil assailed. The more obvious the case, surely the less the virtue
needed in the assailant. However this may be, no one can deny the moral excellence of such
men as Wilberforce and Clarkson, nor the real change in the moral standard implied by the success
of their agitation. But another question remains, which is indicated by a later controversy.
The followers of Wilberforce and of Clarkson were jealous of each other. Each party tried to
claim the chief merit for its hero. Each was, I think, unjust to the other. The underlying
motive was the desire to obtain credit for the 'Evangelicals' or their rivals as the originators
of a great movement. Without touching the personal details it is necessary to say something
of the general sentiments implied. In his history of the agitation,[118] Clarkson gives a quaint
chart, showing how the impulse spread from various centres till it converged upon a single
area, and his facts are significant.

That a great change had taken place is undeniable. Protestant England had bargained with Catholic
Spain in the middle of the century for the right of supplying slaves to America, while at the
peace of 1814 English statesmen were endeavouring to secure a combination of all civilised
powers against the trade. Smollett, in 1748, makes the fortune of his hero, Roderick Random,
by placing him as mate of a slave-ship under the ideal sailor, Bowling. About the same time
John Newton (1725-1807), afterwards the venerated teacher of Cowper and the Evangelicals, was
in command of a slaver, and enjoying 'sweeter and more frequent hours of divine communion'
than he had elsewhere known. He had no scruples, though he had the grace to pray 'to be fixed
in a more humane calling.' In later years he gave the benefit of his experience to the abolitionists.[119]
A new sentiment, however, was already showing itself. Clarkson collects various instances.
Southern's Oroonoco, founded on a story by Mrs. Behn, and Steele's story of Inkle and Yarico
in an early Spectator, Pope's poor Indian in the Essay on Man, and allusions by Thomson, Shenstone,
and Savage, show that poets and novelists could occasionally turn the theme to account. Hutcheson,
the moralist, incidentally condemns slavery; and divines such as Bishops Hayter and Warburton
took the same view in sermons before the Society for the Propagation of Christian Knowledge.
Johnson, 'last of the Tories' though he was, had a righteous hatred for the system.[120] He
toasted the next insurrection of negroes in the West Indies, and asked why we always heard
the 'loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of negroes'? Thomas Day (1748-1789), as an
ardent follower of Rousseau, wrote the Dying Negro in 1773, and, in the same spirit, denounced
the inconsistencies of slave-holding champions of American liberty.

Such isolated utterances showed a spreading sentiment. The honour of the first victory in the
practical application must be given to Granville Sharp[121] (1735-1813), one of the most charming
and, in the best sense, 'Quixotic' of men. In 1772 his exertions had led to the famous decision
by Lord Mansfield in the case of the negro Somerset.[122] Sharp in 1787 became chairman of
the committee formed to attack the slave-trade by collecting the evidence of which Wilberforce
made use in parliament. The committee was chiefly composed of Quakers; as indeed, Quakers are
pretty sure to be found in every philanthropic movement of the period. I must leave the explanation
to the historian of religious movements; but the fact is characteristic. The Quakers had taken
the lead in America. The Quaker was both practical and a mystic. His principles put him outside
of the ordinary political interests, and of the military world. He directed his activities
to helping the poor, the prisoner, and the oppressed. Among the Quakers of the eighteenth century
were John Woolman (1720-1772), a writer beloved by the congenial Charles Lamb and Antoine Benezet
(1713-1784), born in France, and son of a French refugee who settled in Philadelphia. When
Clarkson wrote the prize essay upon the slave-trade (1785), which started his career, it was
from Benezet's writings that he obtained his information. By their influence the Pennsylvanian
Quakers were gradually led to pronounce against slavery[123]; and the first anti-slavery society
was founded in Philadelphia in 1775, the year in which the skirmish at Lexington began the
war of independence. That suggests another influence. The Rationalists of the eighteenth century
were never tired of praising the Quakers. The Quakers were, by their essential principles,
in favour of absolute toleration, and their attitude towards dogma was not dissimilar. 'Rationalisation'
and 'Spiritualisation' are in some directions similar. The general spread of philanthropic
sentiment, which found its formula in the Rights of Man, fell in with the Quaker hatred of
war and slavery. Voltaire heartily admires Barclay, the Quaker apologist. It is, therefore,
not surprising to find the names of the deists, Franklin and Paine, associated with Quakers
in this movement. Franklin was an early president of the new association, and Paine wrote an
article to support the early agitation.[124] Paine himself was a Quaker by birth, who had dropped
his early creed while retaining a respect for its adherents. When the agitation began it was
in fact generally approved by all except the slave-traders. Sound Whig divines, Watson and
Paley and Parr; Unitarians such as Priestley and Gilbert Wakefield and William Smith; and the
great methodist, John Wesley, were united on this point. Fox and Burke and Pitt rivalled each
other in condemning the system. The actual delay was caused partly by the strength of the commercial
interests in parliament, and partly by the growth of the anti-Jacobin sentiment.

The attempt to monopolise the credit of the movement by any particular sect is absurd. Wilberforce
and his friends might fairly claim the glory of having been worthy representatives of a new
spirit of philanthropy; but most certainly they did not create or originate it. The general
growth of that spirit throughout the century must be explained, so far as 'explanation' is
possible, by wider causes. It was, as I must venture to assume, a product of complex social
changes which were bringing classes and nations into closer contact, binding them together
by new ties, and breaking up the old institutions which had been formed under obsolete conditions.
The true moving forces were the same whether these representatives announced the new gospel
of the 'rights of man'; or appealed to the traditional rights of Englishmen; or rallied supporters
of the old order so far as it still provided the most efficient machinery for the purpose.
The revival of religion under Wesley and the Evangelicals meant the direction of the stream
into one channel. The paralytic condition of the Church of England disqualified it for appropriating
the new energy. The men who directed the movements were mainly stimulated by moral indignation
at the gross abuses, and the indolence of the established priesthood naturally gave them an
anti-sacerdotal turn. They simply accepted the old Protestant tradition. They took no interest
in the intellectual questions involved. Rationalism, according to them, meant simply an attack
upon the traditional sanctions of morality; and it scarcely occurred to them to ask for any
philosophical foundation of their creed. Wilberforce's book, A Practical View, attained an
immense popularity, and is characteristic of the position. Wilberforce turns over the infidel
to be confuted by Paley, whom he takes to be a conclusive reasoner. For himself he is content
to show what needed little proof, that the so-called Christians of the day could act as if
they had never heard of the New Testament. The Evangelical movement had in short no distinct
relation to speculative movements. It took the old tradition for granted, and it need not here
be further considered.

One other remark is suggested by the agitation against the slave-trade. It set a precedent
for agitation of a kind afterwards familiar. The committee appealed to the country, and got
up petitions. Sound Tories complained of them in the early slave-trade debates, as attempts
to dictate to parliament by democratic methods. Political agitators had formed associations,
and found a convenient instrument in the 'county meetings,' which seems to have possessed a
kind of indefinite legal character.[125] Such associations of course depend for the great part
of their influence upon the press. The circulation of literature was one great object. Paine's
Rights of Man was distributed by the revolutionary party, and Hannah More wrote popular tracts
to persuade the poor that they had no grievances. It is said that two millions of her little
tracts, 'Village Politics by Will Chip,' the 'Shepherd of Salisbury Plain,' and so forth were
circulated. The demand, indeed, showed rather the eagerness of the rich to get them read than
the eagerness of the poor to read them. They failed to destroy Paine's influence, but they
were successful enough to lead to the foundation of the Religious Tract Society. The attempt
to influence the poor by cheap literature shows that these opinions were beginning to demand
consideration. Cobbett and many others were soon to use the new weapon. Meanwhile the newspapers
circulated among the higher ranks were passing through a new phase, which must be noted. The
great newspapers were gaining power. The Morning Chronicle was started by Woodfall in 1769,
the Morning Post and Morning Herald by Dudley Bate in 1772 and 1780, and the Times by Walter
in 1788. The modern editor was to appear during the war. Stoddart and Barnes of the Times,
Perry and Black of the Morning Chronicle, were to become important politically. The revolutionary
period marks the transition from the old-fashioned newspaper, carried on by a publisher and
an author, to the modern newspaper, which represents a kind of separate organism, elaborately
'differentiated' and worked by a whole army of co-operating editors, correspondents, reporters,
and contributors. Finally, one remark may be made. The literary class in England was not generally
opposed to the governing classes. The tone of Johnson's whole circle was conservative. In fact,
since Harley's time, government had felt the need of support in the press, and politicians
on both sides had their regular organs. The opposition might at any time become the government;
and their supporters in the press, poor men who were only too dependent, had no motive for
going beyond the doctrines of their principals. They might be bought by opponents, or they
might be faithful to a patron. They did not form a band of outcasts, whose hand would be against
every one. The libel law was severe enough, but there had been no licensing system since the
early days of William and Mary. A man could publish what he chose at his own peril. When the
current of popular feeling was anti-revolutionary, government might obtain a conviction, but
even in the worst times there was a chance that juries might be restive. Editors had at times
to go to prison, but even then the paper was not suppressed. Cobbett, for example, continued
to publish his Registrar during an imprisonment of two years (1810-12). Editors had very serious
anxieties, but they could express with freedom any opinion which had the support of a party.
English liberty was so far a reality that a very free discussion of the political problems
of the day was permitted and practised. The English author, therefore, as such, had not the
bitterness of a French man of letters, unless, indeed, he had the misfortune to be an uncompromising
revolutionist.

NOTES:

[118] History of the Rise, Progress, and Accomplishment of the Abolition of the Slave-trade
by the British Parliament (1808). Second enlarged edition 1839. The chart was one cause of
the offence taken by Wilberforce's sons.

[119] Cf. Sir J. Stephen's Ecclesiastical Biography (The Evangelical Succession).

[120] See passages collected in Birkbeck Hill's Boswell, ii. 478-80, and cf. iii. 200-204.
Boswell was attracted by Clarkson, but finally made up his mind that the abolition of the slave-trade
would 'shut the gates of mercy on mankind.'

[121] See the account of G. Sharp in Sir J. Stephen's Ecclesiastical Biography (Clapham Sect).

[122] Cobbett's State Trials, xx. 1-82.

[123] The Society determined in 1760 'to disown' any Friend concerned in the slave-trade.

[124] Mr. Conway, in his Life of Paine, attributes, I think, a little more to his hero than
is consistent with due regard to his predecessors; but, in any case, he took an early part
in the movement.

[125] See upon this subject Mr. Jephson's interesting book on The Platform.

V. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

The English society which I have endeavoured to characterise was now to be thrown into the
vortex of the revolutionary wars. The surpassing dramatic interest of the French Revolution
has tended to obscure our perception of the continuity of even English history. It has been
easy to ascribe to the contagion of French example political movements which were already beginning
in England and which were modified rather than materially altered by our share in the great
European convulsion. The impression made upon Englishmen by the French Revolution is, however,
in the highest degree characteristic. The most vehement sympathies and antipathies were aroused,
and showed at least what principles were congenial to the various English parties. To praise
or blame the revolution, as if it could be called simply good or bad, is for the historian
as absurd as to praise or blame an earthquake. It was simply inevitable under the conditions.
We may, of course, take it as an essential stage in a social evolution, which if described
as progress is therefore to be blessed, or if as degeneration may provoke lamentation. We may,
if we please, ask whether superior statesmanship might have attained the good results without
the violent catastrophes, or whether a wise and good man who could appreciate the real position
would have approved or condemned the actual policy. But to answer such problems with any confidence
would imply a claim to a quasi-omniscience. Partisans at the time, however, answered them without
hesitation, and saw in the Revolution the dawn of a new era of reason and justice, or the outburst
of the fires of hell. Their view is at any rate indicative of their own position. The extreme
opinions need no exposition. They are represented by the controversy between Burke and Paine.
The general doctrine of the 'Rights of Men'--that all men are by nature free and equal--covered
at least the doctrine that the inequality and despotism of the existing order was hateful,
and people with a taste for abstract principles accepted this short cut to political wisdom.
The 'minor' premise being obviously true, they took the major for granted. To Burke, who idealised
the traditional element in the British Constitution, and so attached an excessive importance
to historical continuity, the new doctrine seemed to imply the breaking up of the very foundations
of order and the pulverisation of society. Burke and Paine both assumed too easily that the
dogmas which they defended expressed the real and ultimate beliefs, and that the belief was
the cause, not the consequence, of the political condition. Without touching upon the logic
of either position, I may notice how the problem presented itself to the average English politician
whose position implied acceptance of traditional compromises and who yet prided himself on
possessing the liberties which were now being claimed by Frenchmen. The Whig could heartily
sympathise with the French Revolution so long as it appeared to be an attempt to assimilate
British principles. When Fox hailed the fall of the Bastille as the greatest and best event
that had ever happened, he was expressing a generous enthusiasm shared by all the ardent and
enlightened youth of the time. The French, it seemed, were abolishing an arbitrary despotism
and adopting the principles of Magna Charta and the 'Habeas Corpus' Act. Difficulties, however,
already suggested themselves to the true Whig. Would the French, as Young asked just after
the same event, 'copy the constitution of England, freed from its faults, or attempt, from
theory, to frame something absolutely speculative'?[126] On that issue depended the future
of the country. It was soon decided in the sense opposed to Young's wishes. The reign of terror
alienated the average Whig. But though the argument from atrocities is the popular one, the
opposition was really more fundamental. Burke put the case, savagely and coarsely enough, in
his 'Letter to a noble Lord.' How would the duke of Bedford like to be treated as the revolutionists
were treating the nobility in France? The duke might be a sincere lover of political liberty,
but he certainly would not be prepared to approve the confiscation of his estates. The aristocratic
Whigs, dependent for their whole property and for every privilege which they prized upon ancient
tradition and prescription, could not really be in favour of sweeping away the whole complex
social structure, levelling Windsor Castle as Burke put it in his famous metaphor, and making
a 'Bedford level' of the whole country. The Whigs had to disavow any approval of the Jacobins;
Mackintosh, who had given his answer to Burke's diatribes, met Burke himself on friendly terms
(9th July 1797), and in 1800 took an opportunity of public recantation. He only expressed the
natural awakening of the genuine Whig to the aspects of the case which he had hitherto ignored.
The effect upon the middle-class Whigs is, however, more to my purpose. It may be illustrated
by the history of John Horne Tooke[127] (1736-1812), who at this time represented what may
be called the home-bred British radicalism. He was the son of a London tradesman, who had distinguished
himself by establishing, and afterwards declining to enforce, certain legal rights against
Frederick Prince of Wales. The prince recognised the tradesman's generosity by making his antagonist
purveyor to his household. A debt of some thousand pounds was thus run up before the prince's
death which was never discharged. Possibly the son's hostility to the royal family was edged
by this circumstance. John Horne, forced to take orders in order to hold a living, soon showed
himself to have been intended by nature for the law. He took up the cause of Wilkes in the
early part of the reign; defended him energetically in later years; and in 1769 helped to start
the 'Society for supporting the Bill of Rights.' He then attacked Wilkes, who, as he maintained,
misapplied for his own private use the funds subscribed for public purposes to this society;
and set up a rival 'Constitutional Society.' In 1775, as spokesman of this body, he denounced
the 'king's troops' for 'inhumanly murdering' their fellow-subjects at Lexington for the sole
crime of 'preferring death to slavery.' He was imprisoned for the libel, and thus became a
martyr to the cause. When the country associations were formed in 1780 to protest against the
abuses revealed by the war, Horne became a member of the 'Society for Constitutional Information,'
of which Major Cartwright--afterwards the revered, but rather tiresome, patriarch of the Radicals--was
called the 'father.' Horne Tooke (as he was now named), by these and other exhibitions of boundless
pugnacity, became a leader among the middle-class Whigs, who found their main support among
London citizens, such as Beckford, Troutbeck and Oliver; supported them in his later days;
and after the American war, preferred Pitt, as an advocate of parliamentary reform, to Fox,
the favourite of the aristocratic Whigs. He denounced the Fox coalition ministry, and in later
years opposed Fox at Westminster. The 'Society for Constitutional Information' was still extant
in the revolutionary period, and Tooke, a bluff, jovial companion, who had by this time got
rid of his clerical character, often took the chair at the taverns where they met to talk sound
politics over their port. The revolution infused new spirit into politics. In March 1791[128]
Tooke's society passed a vote of thanks to Paine for the first part of his Rights of Man. Next
year Thomas Hardy, a radical shoemaker, started a 'Corresponding Society.' Others sprang up
throughout the country, especially in the manufacturing towns.[129] These societies took Paine
for their oracle, and circulated his writings as their manifesto. They communicated occasionally
with Horne Tooke's society, which more or less sympathised with them. The Whigs of the upper
sphere started the 'Friends of the People' in April 1792, in order to direct the discontent
into safer channels. Grey, Sheridan and Erskine were members; Fox sympathised but declined
to join; Mackintosh was secretary; and Sir Philip Francis drew up the opening address, citing
the authority of Pitt and Blackstone, and declaring that the society wished 'not to change
but to restore.'[130] It remonstrated cautiously with the other societies, and only excited
their distrust. Grey, as its representative, made a motion for parliamentary reform which was
rejected (May 1793) by two hundred and eighty-two to forty-one. Later motions in May 1797 and
April 1800 showed that, for the present, parliamentary reform was out of the question. Meanwhile
the English Jacobins got up a 'convention' which met at Edinburgh at the end of 1793. The very
name was alarming: the leaders were tried and transported; the cruelty of the sentences and
the severity of the judges, especially Braxfield, shocked such men as Parr and Jeffrey, and
unsuccessful appeals for mercy were made in parliament. The Habeas Corpus Act was suspended
in 1794: Horne Tooke and Hardy were both arrested and tried for high treason in November. An
English jury fortunately showed itself less subservient than the Scottish; the judge was scrupulously
fair: and both Hardy and Horne Tooke were acquitted. The societies, however, though they were
encouraged for a time, were attacked by severe measures passed by Pitt in 1795. The 'Friends
of the People' ceased to exist The seizure of the committee of the Corresponding Societies
in 1798 put an end to their activity. A report presented to parliament in 1799[131] declares
that the societies had gone to dangerous lengths: they had communicated with the French revolutionists
and with the 'United Irishmen' (founded 1791); and societies of 'United Englishmen' and 'United
Scotsmen' had had some concern in the mutinies of the fleet in 1797 and in the Irish rebellion
of 1798. Place says, probably with truth, that the danger was much exaggerated: but in any
case, an act for the suppression of the Corresponding Societies was passed in 1799, and put
an end to the movement.

This summary is significant of the state of opinion. The genuine old-fashioned Whig dreaded
revolution, and guarded himself carefully against any appearance of complicity. Jacobinism,
on the other hand, was always an exotic. Such men as the leading Nonconformists Priestley and
Price were familiar with the speculative movement on the continent, and sympathised with the
enlightenment. Young men of genius, like Wordsworth and Coleridge, imbibed the same doctrines
more or less thoroughly, and took Godwin for their English representative. The same creed was
accepted by the artisans in the growing towns, from whom the Corresponding Societies drew their
recruits. But the revolutionary sentiment was not so widely spread as its adherents hoped or
its enemies feared. The Birmingham mob of 1791 acted, with a certain unconscious humour, on
the side of church and king. They had perhaps an instinctive perception that it was an advantage
to plunder on the side of the constable. In fact, however, the general feeling in all classes
was anti-Jacobin. Place, an excellent witness, himself a member of the Corresponding Societies,
declares that the repressive measures were generally popular even among the workmen.[132] They
were certainly not penetrated with revolutionary fervour. Had it been otherwise, the repressive
measures, severe as they were, would have stimulated rather than suppressed the societies,
and, instead of silencing the revolutionists, have provoked a rising.

At the early period the Jacobin and the home-bred Radical might combine against government.
A manifesto of the Corresponding Societies begins by declaring that 'all men are by nature
free and equal and independent of each other,' and argues also that these are the 'original
principles of English government.'[133] Magna Charta is an early expression of the Declaration
of Rights, and thus pure reason confirms British tradition. The adoption of a common platform,
however, covered a profound difference of sentiment. Horne Tooke represents the old type of
reformer. He was fully resolved not to be carried away by the enthusiasm of his allies. 'My
companions in a stage,' he said to Cartwright, 'may be going to Windsor: I will go with them
to Hounslow. But there I will get out: no further will I go, by God!'[134] When Sheridan supported
a vote of sympathy for the French revolutionists, Tooke insisted upon adding a rider declaring
the content of Englishmen with their own constitution.[135] He offended some of his allies
by asserting that the 'main timbers' of the constitution were sound though the dry-rot had
got into the superstructure. He maintained, according to Godwin,[136] that the best of all
governments had been that of England under George I. Though Cartwright said at the trial that
Horne Tooke was taken to 'have no religion whatever,' he was, according to Stephens, 'a great
stickler for the church of England': and stood up for the House of Lords as well as the church
on grounds of utility.[137] He always ridiculed Paine and the doctrine of abstract rights,[138]
and told Cartwright that though all men had an equal right to a share of property, they had
not a right to an equal share. Horne Tooke's Radicalism (I use the word by anticipation) was
that of the sturdy tradesman. He opposed the government because he hated war, taxation and
sinecures. He argued against universal suffrage with equal pertinacity. A comfortable old gentleman,
with a good cellar of Madeira, and proud of his wall-fruit in a well-tilled garden, had no
desire to see George III. at the guillotine, and still less to see a mob supreme in Lombard
Street or banknotes superseded by assignats. He might be jealous of the great nobles, but he
dreaded mob-rule. He could denounce abuses, but he could not desire anarchy. He is said to
have retorted upon some one who had boasted that English courts of justice were open to all
classes: 'So is the London tavern--to all who can pay.'[139] That is in the spirit of Bentham;
and yet Bentham complains that Horne Tooke's disciple, Burdett, believed in the common law,
and revered the authority of Coke.[140] In brief, the creed of Horne Tooke meant 'liberty'
founded upon tradition. I shall presently notice the consistency of this with what may be called
his philosophy. Meanwhile it was only natural that radicals of this variety should retire from
active politics, having sufficiently burnt their fingers by flirtation with the more thoroughgoing
party. How they came to life again will appear hereafter. Horne Tooke himself took warning
from his narrow escape. He stayed quietly in his house at Wimbledon.[141] There he divided
his time between his books and his garden, and received his friends to Sunday dinners. Bentham,
Mackintosh, Coleridge, and Godwin were among his visitors. Coleridge calls him a 'keen iron
man,' and reports that he made a butt of Godwin as he had done of Paine.[142] Porson and Boswell
encountered him in drinking matches and were both left under the table.[143] The house was
thus a small centre of intellectual life, though the symposia were not altogether such as became
philosophers. Horne Tooke was a keen and shrewd disputant, well able to impress weaker natures.
His neighbour, Sir Francis Burdett, became his political disciple, and in later years was accepted
as the radical leader. Tooke died at Wimbledon 18th March 1812.

NOTES:

[126] France, p. 206 (20th July 1789).

[127] See the Life of Horne Tooke, by Alexander Stephens (2 vols. 8vo, 1813). John Horne added
the name Tooke in 1782.

[128] Parl. Hist. xxxi. 751.

[129] The history of these societies may be found in the trials reported in the twenty-third,
twenty-fourth, and twenty-fifth volumes of Cobbett's State Trials, and in the reports of the
secret committees in the thirty-first and thirty-fourth volumes of the Parl. History. There
are materials in Place's papers in the British Museum which have been used in E. Smith's English
Jacobins.

[130] Parl. Hist. xxix. 1300-1341.

[131] Parl. Hist. xxxiv. 574-655.

[132] Mr. Wallas's Life of Place, p. 25 n.

[133] State Trials, xxiv. 575.

[134] Ibid. xxv. 330.

[135] Ibid. xxv. 390.

[136] Paul's Godwin, i. 147.

[137] Stephens, ii. 48, 477.

[138] Ibid. ii. 34-41, 323, 478-481.

[139] Ibid. ii. 483.

[140] Bentham's Works, x. 404.

[141] He was member for Old Sarum 1801-2; but his career ended by a declaratory act disqualifying
for a seat men who had received holy orders.

[142] Bentham's Works, x. 404; Life of Mackintosh, i. 52; Paul's Godwin, i. 71; Coleridge's
Table-Talk, 8th May 1830 and 16th August 1833.

[143] Stephens, ii. 316, 334, 438.

VI. INDIVIDUALISM

The general tendencies which I have so far tried to indicate will have to be frequently noticed
in the course of the following pages. One point may be emphasised before proceeding: a main
characteristic of the whole social and political order is what is now called its 'individualism.'
That phrase is generally supposed to convey some censure. It may connote, however, some of
the most essential virtues that a race can possess. Energy, self-reliance, and independence,
a strong conviction that a man's fate should depend upon his own character and conduct, are
qualities without which no nation can be great. They are the conditions of its vital power.
They were manifested in a high degree by the Englishmen of the eighteenth century. How far
they were due to the inherited qualities of the race, to the political or social history, or
to external circumstances, I need not ask. They were the qualities which had especially impressed
foreign observers. The fierce, proud, intractable Briton was elbowing his way to a high place
in the world, and showing a vigour not always amiable, but destined to bring him successfully
through tremendous struggles. In the earlier part of the century, Voltaire and French philosophers
admired English freedom of thought and free speech, even when it led to eccentricity and brutality
of manners, and to barbarism in matters of taste. Englishmen, conscious and proud of their
'liberty,' were the models of all who desired liberty for themselves. Liberty, as they understood
it, involved, among other things, an assault upon the old restrictive system, which at every
turn hampered the rising industrial energy. This is the sense in which 'Individualism,' or
the gospel according to Adam Smith--laissez faire, and so forth--has been specially denounced
in recent times. Without asking at present how far such attacks are justifiable, I must be
content to assume that the old restrictive system was in its actual form mischievous, guided
by entirely false theories, and the great barrier to the development of industry. The same
spirit appeared in purely political questions. 'Liberty,' as is often remarked, may be interpreted
in two ways; not necessarily consistent with each other. It means sometimes simply the diminution
of the sphere of law and the power of legislators, or, again, the transference to subjects
of the power of legislating, and, therefore, not less control, but control by self-made laws
alone. The Englishman, who was in presence of no centralised administrative power, who regarded
the Government rather as receiving power from individuals than as delegating the power of a
central body, took liberty mainly in the sense of restricting law. Government in general was
a nuisance, though a necessity; and properly employed only in mediating between conflicting
interests, and restraining the violence of individuals forced into contact by outward circumstances.
When he demanded that a greater share of influence should be given to the people, he always
took for granted that their power would be used to diminish the activity of the sovereign power;
that there would be less government and therefore less jobbery, less interference with free
speech and free action, and smaller perquisites to be bestowed in return for the necessary
services. The people would use their authority to tie the hands of the rulers, and limit them
strictly to their proper and narrow functions.

The absence, again, of the idea of a state in any other sense implies another tendency. The
'idea' was not required. Englishmen were concerned rather with details than with first principles.
Satisfied, in a general way, with their constitution, they did not want to be bothered with
theories. Abstract and absolute doctrines of right, when imported from France, fell flat upon
the average Englishman. He was eager enough to discuss the utility of this or that part of
the machinery, but without inquiring into first principles of mechanism. The argument from
'utility' deals with concrete facts, and presupposes an acceptance of some common criterion
of the useful. The constant discussion of political matters in parliament and the press implied
a tacit acceptance on all hands of constitutional methods. Practical men, asking whether this
or that policy shall be adopted in view of actual events, no more want to go back to right
reason and 'laws of nature' than a surveyor to investigate the nature of geometrical demonstration.
Very important questions were raised as to the rights of the press, for example, or the system
of representation. But everybody agreed that the representative system and freedom of speech
were good things; and argued the immediate questions of fact. The order, only established by
experience and tradition, was accepted, subject to criticism of detail, and men turned impatiently
from abstract argument, and left the inquiry into 'social contracts' to philosophers, that
is, to silly people in libraries. Politics were properly a matter of business, to be discussed
in a business-like spirit. In this sense, 'individualism' is congenial to 'empiricism,' because
it starts from facts and particular interests, and resents the intrusion of first principles.

The characteristic individualism, again, suggests one other remark. Individual energy and sense
of responsibility are good--as even extreme socialists may admit--if they do not exclude a
sense of duties to others. It may be a question how far the stimulation of individual enterprise
and the vigorous spirit of industrial competition really led to a disregard of the interests
of the weaker. But it would be a complete misunderstanding of the time if we inferred that
it meant a decline of humane feeling. Undoubtedly great evils had grown up, and some continued
to grow which were tolerated by the indifference, or even stimulated by the selfish aims, of
the dominant classes. But, in the first place, many of the most active prophets of the individualist
spirit were acting, and acting sincerely, in the name of humanity. They were attacking a system
which they held, and to a great extent, I believe, held rightly, to be especially injurious
to the weakest classes. Possibly they expected too much from the simple removal of restrictions;
but certainly they denounced the restrictions as unjust to all, not simply as hindrances to
the wealth of the rich. Adam Smith's position is intelligible: it was, he thought, a proof
of a providential order that each man, by helping himself, unintentionally helped his neighbours.
The moral sense based upon sympathy was therefore not opposed to, but justified, the economic
principles that each man should first attend to his own interest. The unintentional co-operation
would thus become conscious and compatible with the established order. And, in the next place,
so far from there being a want of humane feeling, the most marked characteristic of the eighteenth
century was precisely the growth of humanity. In the next generation, the eighteenth century
came to be denounced as cold, heartless, faithless, and so forth. The established mode of writing
history is partly responsible for this perversion. Men speak as though some great man, who
first called attention to an evil, was a supernatural being who had suddenly dropped into the
world from another sphere. His condemnation of evil is therefore taken to be a proof that the
time must be evil. Any century is bad if we assume all the good men to be exceptions. But the
great man is really also the product of his time. He is the mouthpiece of its prevailing sentiments,
and only the first to see clearly what many are beginning to perceive obscurely. The emergence
of the prophet is a proof of the growing demand of his hearers for sound teaching. Because
he is in advance of men generally, he sees existing abuses more clearly, and we take his evidence
against his contemporaries as conclusive. But the fact that they listened shows how widely
the same sensibility to evil was already diffused. In fact, as I think, the humane spirit of
the eighteenth century, due to the vast variety of causes which we call social progress or
evolution--not to the teaching of any individual--was permeating the whole civilised world,
and showed itself in the philosophic movement as well as in the teaching of the religious leaders,
who took the philosophers to be their enemies. I have briefly noticed the various philanthropic
movements which were characteristic of the period. Some of them may indicate the growth of
new evils; others, that evils which had once been regarded with indifference were now attracting
attention and exciting indignation. But even the growth of new evils does not show general
indifference so much as the incapacity of the existing system to deal with new conditions.
It may, I think, be safely said that a growing philanthropy was characteristic of the whole
period, and in particular animated the Utilitarian movement, as I shall have to show in detail.
Modern writers have often spoken of the Wesleyan propaganda and the contemporary 'evangelical
revival' as the most important movements of the time. They are apt to speak, in conformity
with the view just described, as though Wesley or some of his contemporaries had originated
or created the better spirit. Without asking what was good or bad in some aspects of these
movements, I fully believe that Wesley was essentially a moral reformer, and that he deserves
corresponding respect. But instead of holding that his contemporaries were bad people, awakened
by a stimulus from without, I hold that the movement, so far as really indicating moral improvement,
must be set down to the credit of the century itself. It was one manifestation of a general
progress, of which Bentham was another outcome. Though Bentham might have thought Wesley a
fanatic or perhaps a hypocrite, and Wesley would certainly have considered that Bentham's heart
was much in need of a change, they were really allies as much as antagonists, and both mark
a great and beneficial change.

CHAPTER IV

PHILOSOPHY

I. JOHN HORNE TOOKE

I have so far dwelt upon the social and political environment of the early Utilitarian movement;
and have tried also to point out some of the speculative tendencies fostered by the position.
If it be asked what philosophical doctrines were explicitly taught, the answer must be a very
short one. English philosophy barely existed. Parr was supposed to know something about metaphysics--apparently
because he could write good Latin. But the inference was hasty. Of one book, however, which
had a real influence, I must say something, for though it contained little definite philosophy,
it showed what kind of philosophy was congenial to the common sense of the time.

The sturdy radical, Horne Tooke, had been led to the study of philology by a characteristic
incident. The legal question had arisen whether the words, 'She, knowing that Crooke had been
indicted for forgery,' did so and so, contained an averment that Crooke had been indicted.
Tooke argued in a letter to Dunning[144] that they did; because they were equivalent to the
phrase, 'Crooke had been indicted for forgery: she, knowing that,' did so and so. This raises
the question: What is the meaning of 'that'? Tooke took up the study, thinking, as he says,
that it would throw light upon some philosophical questions. He learned some Anglo-Saxon and
Gothic to test his theory and, of course, confirmed it.[145] The book shows ingenuity, shrewdness,
and industry, and Tooke deserves credit for seeing the necessity of applying a really historical
method to his problem, though his results were necessarily crude in the pre-scientific stage
of philology.

The book is mainly a long string of etymologies, which readers of different tastes have found
intolerably dull or an amusing collection of curiosities. Tooke held, and surely with reason,
that an investigation of language, the great instrument of thought, may help to throw light
upon the process of thinking. He professes to be a disciple of Locke in philosophy as in politics.
Locke, he said,[146] made a lucky mistake in calling his book an essay upon human understanding;
for he thus attracted many who would have been repelled had he called it what it really was,
'a treatise upon words and language.' According to Tooke, in fact,[147] what we call 'operations
of mind' are only 'operations of language.' The mind contemplates nothing but 'impressions,'
that is, 'sensations or feelings,' which Locke called 'ideas,' Locke mistook composition of
terms for composition of ideas. To compound ideas is impossible. We can only use one term as
a sign of many ideas. Locke, again, supposed that affirming and denying were operations of
the mind, whereas they are only artifices of language.[148]

The mind, then, can only contemplate, separately or together, aggregates of 'ideas,' ultimate
atoms, incapable of being parted or dissolved. There are, therefore, only two classes of words,
nouns and verbs; all others, prepositions, conjunctions, and so forth, being abbreviations,
a kind of mental shorthand to save the trouble of enumerating the separate items. Tooke, in
short, is a thoroughgoing nominalist. The realities, according to him, are sticks, stones,
and material objects, or the 'ideas' which 'represent' them. They can be stuck together or
taken apart, but all the words which express relations, categories, and the like, are in themselves
meaningless. The special objects of his scorn are 'Hermes' Harris, and Monboddo, who had tried
to defend Aristotle against Locke. Monboddo had asserted that 'every kind of relation' is a
pure 'idea of the intellect' not to be apprehended by sense.[149] If so, according to Tooke,
it would be a nonentity.

This doctrine gives a short cut to the abolition of metaphysics. The word 'metaphysics,' says
Tooke,[150] is nonsense. All metaphysical controversies are 'founded on the grossest ignorance
of words and the nature of speech.' The greatest part of his second volume is concerned with
etymologies intended to prove that an 'abstract idea' is a mere word. Abstract words, he says,[151]
are generally 'participles without a substantive and therefore in construction used as substantives.'
From a misunderstanding of this has arisen 'metaphysical jargon' and 'false morality.' In illustration
he gives a singular list of words, including 'fate, chance, heaven, hell, providence, prudence,
innocence, substance, fiend, angel, apostle, spirit, true, false, desert, merit, faith, etc.,
all of which are mere participles poetically embodied and substantiated by those who use them.'
A couple of specific applications, often quoted by later writers, will sufficiently indicate
his drift.

Such words, he remarks,[152] as 'right' and 'just' mean simply that which is ordered or commanded.
The chapter is headed 'rights of man,' and Tooke's interlocutor naturally observes that this
is a singular result for a democrat. Man, it would seem, has no rights except the rights created
by the law. Tooke admits the inference to be correct, but replies that the democrat in disobeying
human law may be obeying the law of God, and is obeying the law of God when he obeys the law
of nature. The interlocutor does not inquire what Tooke could mean by the 'law of nature.'
We can guess what Tooke would have said to Paine in the Wimbledon garden. In fact, however,
Tooke is here, as elsewhere, following Hobbes, though, it seems, unconsciously. Another famous
etymology is that of 'truth' from 'troweth.'[153] Truth is what each man thinks. There is no
such thing, therefore, as 'eternal, immutable, everlasting truth, unless mankind, such as they
are at present, be eternal, immutable, everlasting.' Two persons may contradict each other
and yet each may be speaking what is true for him. Truth may be a vice as well as a virtue;
for on many occasions it is wrong to speak the truth.

These phrases may possibly be interpreted in a sense less paradoxical than the obvious one.
Tooke's philosophy, if so it is to be called, was never fully expounded. He burned his papers
before his death, and we do not know what he would have said about 'verbs,' which must have
led, one would suppose, to some further treatment of relations, nor upon the subject, which
as Stephens tells us, was most fully treated in his continuation, the value of human testimony.

If Tooke was not a philosopher he was a man of remarkably shrewd cynical common sense, who
thought philosophy idle foppery. His book made a great success. Stephens tells us[154] that
it brought him £4000 or £5000. Hazlitt in 1810 published a grammar professing to incorporate
for the first time Horne Tooke's 'discoveries.' The book was admired by Mackintosh,[155] who,
of course, did not accept the principles, and had a warm disciple in Charles Richardson (1775-1865),
who wrote in its defence against Dugald Stewart and accepted its authority in his elaborate
dictionary of the English language.[156] But its chief interest for us is that it was a great
authority with James Mill. Mill accepts the etymologies, and there is much in common between
the two writers, though Mill had learned his main doctrines elsewhere, especially from Hobbes.
What the agreement really shows is how the intellectual idiosyncrasy which is congenial to
'nominalism' in philosophy was also congenial to Tooke's matter of fact radicalism and to the
Utilitarian position of Bentham and his followers.

NOTES:

[144] Published originally in 1778; reprinted in edition of EPEA PTEROENTA or Diversions of
Purley, by Richard Taylor (1829), to which I refer. The first part of the Diversions of Purley
appeared in 1786; and the second part (with a new edition of the first) in 1798.

[145] Diversions of Purley (1829), i. 12, 131.

[146] Ibid. ii. 362. Locke's work, says Prof. Max Müller in his Science of Thought, p. 295,
'is, as Lange in his History of Materialism rightly perceived, a critique of language which,
together with Kant's Critique of the Pure Reason, forms the starting-point of modern philosophy.'
See Lange's Materialism, (1873), i. 271.

[147] Ibid. i. 49.

[148] Diversions of Purley, i. 36, 42.

[149] Ibid. i. 373.

[150] Ibid. i. 374.

[151] Diversions of Purley, ii. 18. Cf. Mill's statement in Analysis, i. 304, that 'abstract
terms are concrete terms with the connotation dropped.'

[152] Ibid. ii. 9, etc.

[153] Ibid. ii. 399.

[154] Stephens, ii. 497.

[155] Life of Mackintosh, ii. 235-37.

[156] Begun for the Encyclopædia Metropolitana in 1818; and published in 1835-37. Dugald Stewart's
chief criticism is in his Essays (Works, v. 149-188). John Fearn published his Anti-Tooke in 1820.

II. DUGALD STEWART

If English philosophy was a blank, there was still a leader of high reputation in Scotland.
Dugald Stewart (1753-1828) had a considerable influence upon the Utilitarians. He represented,
on the one hand, the doctrines which they thought themselves specially bound to attack, and
it may perhaps be held that in some ways he betrayed to them the key of the position. Stewart[157]
was son of a professor of mathematics at Edinburgh. He studied at Glasgow (1771-72) where he
became Reid's favourite pupil and devoted friend. In 1772 he became the assistant, and in 1775
the colleague, of his father, and he appears to have had a considerable knowledge of mathematics.
In 1785 he succeeded Adam Ferguson as professor of moral philosophy and lectured continuously
until 1810. He then gave up his active duties to Thomas Brown, devoting himself to the completion
and publication of the substance of his lectures. Upon Brown's death in 1820, he resigned a
post to which he was no longer equal. A paralytic stroke in 1822 weakened him, though he was
still able to write. He died in 1828.

If Stewart now makes no great mark in histories of philosophy, his personal influence was conspicuous.
Cockburn describes him as of delicate appearance, with a massive head, bushy eyebrows, gray
intelligent eyes, flexible mouth and expressive countenance. His voice was sweet and his ear
exquisite. Cockburn never heard a better reader, and his manners, though rather formal, were
graceful and dignified. James Mill, after hearing Pitt and Fox, declared that Stewart was their
superior in eloquence. At Edinburgh, then at the height of its intellectual activity, he held
his own among the ablest men and attracted the loyalty of the younger. Students came not only
from Scotland but from England, the United States, France and Germany.[158] Scott won the professor's
approval by an essay on the 'Customs of the Northern Nations.' Jeffrey, Horner, Cockburn and
Mackintosh were among his disciples. His lectures upon Political Economy were attended by Sydney
Smith, Jeffrey and Brougham, and one of his last hearers was Lord Palmerston. Parr looked up
to him as a great philosopher, and contributed to his works an essay upon the etymology of
the word 'sublime,' too vast to be printed whole. Stewart was an upholder of Whig principles,
when the Scottish government was in the hands of the staunchest Tories. The irreverent young
Edinburgh Reviewers treated him with respect, and to some extent applied his theory to politics.
Stewart was the philosophical heir of Reid; and, one may say, was a Whig both in philosophy
and in politics. He was a rationalist, but within the limits fixed by respectability; and he
dreaded the revolution in politics, and believed in the surpassing merits of the British Constitution
as interpreted by the respectable Whigs.

Stewart represents the 'common sense' doctrine. That name, as he observes, lends itself to
an equivocation. Common sense is generally used as nearly synonymous with 'mother wit,' the
average opinion of fairly intelligent men; and he would prefer to speak of the 'fundamental
laws of belief.'[159] There can, however, be no doubt that the doctrine derived much of its
strength from the apparent confirmation of the 'average opinion' by the 'fundamental laws.'
On one side, said Reid, are all the vulgar; on the other all the philosophers. 'In this division,
to my great humiliation, I find myself classed with the vulgar.'[160] Reid, in fact, had opposed
the theories of Hume and Berkeley because they led to a paradoxical scepticism. If it be, as
Reid held, a legitimate inference from Berkeley that a man may as well run his head against
a post, there can be no doubt that it is shocking to common sense in every acceptation of the
word. The reasons, however, which Reid and Stewart alleged for not performing that feat took
a special form, which I am compelled to notice briefly because they set up the mark for the
whole intellectual artillery of the Utilitarians. Reid, in fact, invented what J. S. Mill called
'intuitions.' To confute intuitionists and get rid of intuitions was one main purpose of all
Mill's speculations. What, then, is an 'intuition'? To explain that fully it would be necessary
to write once more that history of the philosophical movement from Descartes to Hume, which
has been summarised and elucidated by so many writers that it should be as plain as the road
from St. Paul's to Temple Bar. I am forced to glance at the position taken by Reid and Stewart
because it has a most important bearing upon the whole Utilitarian scheme. Reid's main service
to philosophy was, in his own opinion,[161] that he refuted the 'ideal system' of Descartes
and his followers. That system, he says, carried in its womb the monster, scepticism, which
came to the birth in 1739,[162] the date of Hume's early Treatise. To confute Hume, therefore,
which was Reid's primary object, it was necessary to go back to Descartes, and to show where
he deviated from the right track. In other words, we must trace the genealogy of 'ideas.' Descartes,
as Reid admitted, had rendered immense services to philosophy. He had exploded the scholastic
system, which had become a mere mass of logomachies and an incubus upon scientific progress.
He had again been the first to 'draw a distinct line between the material and the intellectual
world'[163]; and Reid apparently assumes that he had drawn it correctly. One characteristic
of the Cartesian school is obvious. Descartes, a great mathematician at the period when mathematical
investigations were showing their enormous power, invented a mathematical universe. Mathematics
presented the true type of scientific reasoning and determined his canons of inquiry. The 'essence'
of matter, he said, was space. The objective world, as we have learned to call it, is simply
space solidified or incarnate geometry. Its properties therefore could be given as a system
of deductions from first principles, and it forms a coherent and self-subsistent whole. Meanwhile
the essence of the soul is thought. Thought and matter are absolutely opposed. They are contraries,
having nothing in common. Reality, however, seems to belong to the world of space. The brain,
too, belongs to that world, and motions in the brain must be determined as a part of the material
mechanism. In some way or other 'ideas' correspond to these motions; though to define the way
tried all the ingenuity of Descartes' successors. In any case an idea is 'subjective': it is
a thought, not a thing. It is a shifting, ephemeral entity not to be fixed or grasped. Yet,
somehow or other, it exists, and it 'represents' realities; though the divine power has to
be called in to guarantee the accuracy of the representation. The objective world, again, does
not reveal itself to us as simply made up of 'primary qualities'; we know of it only as somehow
endowed with 'secondary' or sense-given qualities: as visible, tangible, audible, and so forth.
These qualities are plainly 'subjective'; they vary from man to man, and from moment to moment:
they cannot be measured or fixed; and must be regarded as a product in some inexplicable way
of the action of matter upon mind; unreal or, at any rate, not independent entities.

In Locke's philosophy, the 'ideas,' legitimate or illegitimate descendants of the Cartesian
theories, play a most prominent part. Locke's admirable common sense made him the leader who
embodied a growing tendency. The empirical sciences were growing; and Locke, a student of medicine,
could note the fallacies which arise from neglecting observation and experiment, and attempting
to penetrate to the absolute essences and entities. Newton's great success was due to neglecting
impossible problems about the nature of force in itself--'action at a distance' and so forth--and
attention to the sphere of visible phenomena. The excessive pretensions of the framers of metaphysical
systems had led to hopeless puzzles and merely verbal solutions. Locke, therefore, insisted
upon the necessity of ascertaining the necessary limits of human knowledge. All our knowledge
of material facts is obviously dependent in some way upon our sensations--however fleeting
or unreal they may be. Therefore, the material sciences must depend upon sense-given data or
upon observation and experiment. Hume gives the ultimate purpose, already implied in Locke's
essay, when he describes his first treatise (on the title page) as an 'attempt to introduce
the experimental mode of reasoning into moral subjects.' Now, as Reid thinks, the effect of
this was to construct our whole knowledge out of the representative ideas. The empirical factor
is so emphasised that we lose all grasp of the real world. Locke, indeed, though he insists
upon the derivation of our whole knowledge from 'ideas,' leaves reality to the 'primary qualities'
without clearly expounding their relation to the secondary. But Berkeley, alarmed by the tendency
of the Cartesian doctrines to materialism and mechanical necessity, reduces the 'primary' to
the level of the 'secondary,' and proceeds to abolish the whole world of matter. We are thus
left with nothing but 'ideas,' and the ideas are naturally 'subjective' and therefore in some
sense unreal. Finally Hume gets rid of the soul as well as the outside world; and then, by
his theory of 'causation,' shows that the ideas themselves are independent atoms, cohering
but not rationally connected, and capable of being arbitrarily joined or separated in any way
whatever. Thus the ideas have ousted the facts. We cannot get beyond ideas, and yet ideas are
still purely subjective. The 'real' is separated from the phenomenal, and truth divorced from
fact. The sense-given world is the whole world, and yet is a world of mere accidental conjunctions
and separation. That is Hume's scepticism, and yet according to Reid is the legitimate development
of Descartes' 'ideal system.' Reid, I take it, was right in seeing that there was a great dilemma.
What was required to escape from it? According to Kant, nothing less than a revision of Descartes'
mode of demarcation between object and subject. The 'primary qualities' do not correspond in
this way to an objective world radically opposed to the subjective. Space is not a form of
things, but a form imposed upon the data of experience by the mind itself. This, as Kant says,
supposes a revolution in philosophy comparable to the revolution made by Copernicus in astronomy.
We have completely to invert our whole system of conceiving the world. Whatever the value of
Kant's doctrine, of which I need here say nothing, it was undoubtedly more prolific than Reid's.
Reid's was far less thoroughgoing. He does not draw a new line between object and subject,
but simply endeavours to show that the dilemma was due to certain assumptions about the nature
of 'ideas.'

The real had been altogether separated from the phenomenal, or truth divorced from fact. You
can only have demonstrations by getting into a region beyond the sensible world; while within
that world--that is, the region of ordinary knowledge and conduct--you are doomed to hopeless
uncertainty. An escape, therefore, must be sought by some thorough revision of the assumed
relation, but not by falling back upon the exploded philosophy of the schools. Reid and his
successors were quite as much alive as Locke to the danger of falling into mere scholastic
logomachy. They, too, will in some sense base all knowledge upon experience. Reid constantly
appeals to the authority of Bacon, whom he regards as the true founder of inductive science.
The great success of Bacon's method in the physical sciences, encouraged the hope, already
expressed by Newton, that a similar result might be achieved in 'moral philosophy.'[164] Hume
had done something to clear the way, but Reid was, as Stewart thinks, the first to perceive
clearly and justly the 'analogy between these two different branches of human knowledge.' The
mind and matter are two co-ordinate things, whose properties are to be investigated by similar
methods. Philosophy thus means essentially psychology. The two inquiries are two 'branches'
of inductive science, and the problem is to discover by a perfectly impartial examination what
are the 'fundamental laws of mind' revealed by an accurate analysis of the various processes
of thought. The main result of Reid's investigations is given most pointedly in his early Inquiry,
and was fully accepted by Stewart. Briefly it comes to this. No one can doubt that we believe,
as a fact, in an external world. We believe that there are sun and moon, stones, sticks, and
human bodies. This belief is accepted by the sceptic as well as by the dogmatist, although
the sceptic reduces it to a mere blind custom or 'association of ideas.' Now Reid argues that
the belief, whatever its nature, is not and cannot be derived from the sensations. We do not
construct the visible and tangible world, for example, simply out of impressions made upon
the senses of sight and touch. To prove this, he examines what are the actual data provided
by these senses, and shows, or tries to show, that we cannot from them alone construct the
world of space and geometry. Hence, if we consider experience impartially and without preconception,
we find that it tells us something which is not given by the senses. The senses are not the
material of our perceptions, but simply give the occasions upon which our belief is called
into activity. The sensation is no more like the reality in which we believe than the pain
of a wound is like the edge of the knife. Perception tells us directly and immediately, without
the intervention of ideas, that there is, as we all believe, a real external world.

Reid was a vigorous reasoner, and credit has been given to him by some disciples of Kant's
doctrine of time and space. Schopenhauer[165] says that Reid's 'excellent work' gives a complete
'negative proof of the Kantian truths'; that is to say, that Reid proves satisfactorily that
we cannot construct the world out of the sense-given data alone. But, whereas Kant regards
the senses as supplying the materials moulded by the perceiving mind, Reid regards them as
mere stimuli exciting certain inevitable beliefs. As a result of Reid's method, then, we have
'intuitions.' Reid's essential contention is that a fair examination of experience will reveal
certain fundamental beliefs, which cannot be explained as mere manifestations of the sensations,
and which, by the very fact that they are inexplicable, must be accepted as an 'inspiration.'[166]
Reid professes to discover these beliefs by accurately describing facts. He finds them there
as a chemist finds an element. The 'intuition' is made by substituting for 'ideas' a mysterious
and inexplicable connection between the mind and matter.[167] The chasm exists still, but it
is somehow bridged by a quasi-miracle. Admitting, therefore, that Reid shows a gap to exist
in the theory, his result remains 'negative.' The philosopher will say that it is not enough
to assert a principle dogmatically without showing its place in a reasoned system of thought.
The psychologist, on the other hand, who takes Reid's own ground, may regard the statement
only as a useful challenge to further inquiry. The analysis hitherto given may be insufficient,
but where Reid has failed, other inquirers may be more successful. As soon, in fact, as we
apply the psychological method, and regard the 'philosophy of mind' as an 'inductive science,'
it is perilous, if not absolutely inconsistent, to discover 'intuitions' which will take us
beyond experience. The line of defence against empiricism can only be provisional and temporary.
In his main results, indeed, Reid had the advantage of being on the side of 'common sense.'
Everybody was already convinced that there were sticks and stones, and everybody is prepared
to hear that their belief is approved by philosophy. But a difficulty arises when a similar
method is applied to a doctrine sincerely disputed. To the statement, 'this is a necessary
belief,' it is a sufficient answer to reply, 'I don't believe it,' In that case, an intuition
merely amounts to a dogmatic assumption that I am infallible, and must be supported by showing
its connection with beliefs really universal and admittedly necessary.

Dugald Stewart followed Reid upon this main question, and with less force and originality represents
the same point of view. He accepts Reid's view of the two co-ordinate departments of knowledge;
the science of which mind, and the science of which body, is the object. Philosophy is not
a 'theory of knowledge' or of the universe; but, as it was then called, 'a philosophy of the
human mind.' 'Philosophy' is founded upon inductive psychology; and it only becomes philosophy
in a wider sense in so far as we discover that as a fact we have certain fundamental beliefs,
which are thus given by experience, though they take us in a sense beyond experience. Jeffrey,
reviewing Stewart's life of Reid, in the Edinburgh Review of 1804, makes a significant inference
from this. Bacon's method, he said, had succeeded in the physical sciences, because there we
could apply experiment. But experiment is impossible in the science of mind; and therefore
philosophy will never be anything but a plaything or a useful variety of gymnastic. Stewart
replied at some length in his Essays,[168] fully accepting the general conception, but arguing
that the experimental method was applicable to the science of mind. Jeffrey observes that it
was now admitted that the 'profoundest reasonings' had brought us back to the view of the vulgar,
and this, too, is admitted by Stewart so far as the cardinal doctrine of 'the common sense'
philosophy, the theory of perception, is admitted.

From this, again, it follows that the 'notions we annex to the words Matter and Mind are merely
relative.'[169] We know that mind exists as we know that matter exists; or, if anything, we
know the existence of mind more certainly because more directly. The mind is suggested by 'the
subjects of our consciousness'; the body by the objects 'of our perception.' But, on the other
hand, we are totally 'ignorant of the essence of either.'[170] We can discover the laws either
of mental or moral phenomena; but a law, as he explains, means in strictness nothing but a
'general fact.'[171] It is idle, therefore, to explain the nature of the union between the
two unknowable substances; we can only discover that they are united and observe the laws according
to which one set of phenomena corresponds to the other. From a misunderstanding of this arise
all the fallacies of scholastic ontology, 'the most idle and absurd speculation that ever employed
the human faculties.'[172] The destruction of that pseudo-science was the great glory of Bacon
and Locke; and Reid has now discovered the method by which we may advance to the establishment
of a truly inductive 'philosophy of mind.'

It is not surprising that Stewart approximates in various directions to the doctrines of the
empirical school. He leans towards them whenever he does not see the results to which he is
tending. Thus, for example, he is a thoroughgoing nominalist;[173] and on this point he deserts
the teaching of Reid. He defends against Reid the attack made by Berkeley and Hume upon 'abstract
ideas.' Rosmini,[174] in an elaborate criticism, complains that Stewart did not perceive the
inevitable tendency of nominalism to materialism.[175] Stewart, in fact, accepts a good deal
of Horne Tooke's doctrine,[176] though calling Tooke an 'ingenious grammarian, not a very profound
philosopher,' but holds, as we shall see, that the materialistic tendency can be avoided. As
becomes a nominalist, he attacks the syllogism upon grounds more fully brought out by J. S.
Mill. Upon another essential point, he agrees with the pure empiricists. He accepts Hume's
view of causation in all questions of physical science. In natural philosophy, he declares
causation means only conjunction. The senses can never give us the 'efficient' cause of any
phenomenon. In other words, we can never see a 'necessary connection' between any two events.
He collects passages from earlier writers to show how Hume had been anticipated; and holds
that Bacon's inadequate view of this truth was a main defect in his theories.[177] Hence we
have a characteristic conclusion. He says, when discussing the proofs of the existence of God,[178]
that we have an 'irresistible conviction of the necessity of a cause' for every change. Hume,
however, has shown that this can never be a logical necessity. It must then, argues Stewart,
be either a 'prejudice' or an 'intuitive judgment.' Since it is shown by 'universal consent'
not to be a prejudice, it must be an intuitive judgment. Thus Hume's facts are accepted; but
his inference denied. The actual causal nexus is inscrutable. The conviction that there must
be a connection between events attributed by Hume to 'custom' is attributed by Stewart to intuitive
belief. Stewart infers that Hume's doctrine is really favourable to theology. It implies that
God gives us the conviction, and perhaps, as Malebranche held, that God is 'the constantly
operating efficient Cause in the material world.'[179] Stewart's successor, Thomas Brown, took
up this argument on occasion of the once famous 'Leslie controversy'; and Brown's teaching
was endorsed by James Mill and by John Stuart Mill.

According to J. S. Mill, James Mill and Stewart represented opposite poles of philosophic thought.
I shall have to consider this dictum hereafter. On the points already noticed Stewart must
be regarded as an ally rather than an opponent of the Locke and Hume tradition. Like them he
appeals unhesitatingly to experience, and cannot find words strong enough to express his contempt
for 'ontological' and scholastic methods. His 'intuitions' are so far very harmless things,
which fall in with common sense, and enable him to hold without further trouble the beliefs
which, as a matter of fact, are held by everybody. They are an excuse for not seeking any ultimate
explanation in reason. He is, indeed, opposed to the school which claimed to be the legitimate
successor to Locke, but which evaded Hume's scepticism by diverging towards materialism. The
great representative of this doctrine in England had been Hartley, and in Stewart's day Hartley's
lead had been followed by Priestley, who attacked Reid from a materialist point of view, by
Priestley's successor, Thomas Belsham, and by Erasmus Darwin. We find Stewart, in language
which reminds us of later controversy, denouncing the 'Darwinian School'[180] for theories
about instinct incompatible with the doctrine of final causes. It might appear that a philosopher
who has re-established the objective existence of space in opposition to Berkeley, was in danger
of that materialism which had been Berkeley's bugbear. But Stewart escapes the danger by his
assertion that our knowledge of matter is 'relative' or confined to phenomena. Materialism
is for him a variety of ontology, involving the assumption that we know the essence of matter.
To speak with Hartley of 'vibrations,' animal spirits, and so forth, is to be led astray by
a false analogy. We can discover the laws of correspondence of mind and body, but not the ultimate
nature of either.[181] Thus he regards the 'physiological metaphysics of the present day' as
an 'idle waste of labour and ingenuity on questions to which the human mind is altogether incompetent.'[182]
The principles found by inductive observation are as independent of these speculations as Newton's
theory of gravitation of an ultimate mechanical cause of gravitation.

Hartley's followers, however, could drop the 'vibration' theory; and their doctrine then became
one of 'association of ideas.' To this famous theory, which became the sheet-anchor of the
empirical school, Stewart is not altogether opposed. We find him speaking of 'indissoluble
association' in language which reminds us of the Mills.[183] Hume had spoken of association
as comparable to gravitation--the sole principle by which our 'ideas' and 'impressions' are
combined into a whole; a theory, of course, corresponding to his doctrine of 'belief' as a
mere custom of associating. Stewart uses the principle rather as Locke had done, as explaining
fallacies due to 'casual associations.' It supposes, as he says, the previous existence of
certain principles, and cannot be an ultimate explanation. The only question can be at what
point we have reached an 'original principle,' and are therefore bound to stop our analysis.[184]
Over this question he glides rather too lightly, as is his custom; but from his point of view
the belief, for example, in an external world, cannot be explained by association, inasmuch
as it reveals itself as an ultimate datum.

In regard to the physical sciences, then, Stewart's position approximates very closely to the
purely 'empirical' view. When we come to a different application of his principles, we find
him taking a curiously balanced position between different schools. 'Common sense' naturally
wishes to adapt itself to generally accepted beliefs; and with so flexible a doctrine as that
of 'intuitions' it is not difficult to discover methods of proving the ordinary dogmas. Stewart's
theology is characteristic of this tendency. He describes the so-called a priori proof, as
formulated by Clarke. But without denying its force, he does not like to lay stress upon it.
He dreads 'ontology' too much. He therefore considers that the argument at once most satisfactory
to the philosopher and most convincing to ordinary men is the argument from design. The belief
in God is not 'intuitive,' but follows immediately from two first principles: the principle
that whatever exists has a cause, and the principle that a 'combination of means implies a
designer.'[185] The belief in a cause arises on our perception of change as our belief in the
external world arises upon our sensations. The belief in design must be a 'first principle'
because it includes a belief in 'necessity' which cannot arise from mere observation of 'contingent
truths.'[186] Hence Stewart accepts the theory of final causes as stated by Paley. Though Paley's
ethics offended him, he has nothing but praise for the work upon Natural Theology.[187] Thus,
although 'common sense' does not enable us to lay down the central doctrine of theology as
a primary truth, it does enable us to interpret experience in theological terms. In other words,
his theology is of the purely empirical kind, which was, as we shall see, the general characteristic
of the time.

In Stewart's discussion of ethical problems the same doctrine of 'final causes' assumes a special
importance. Stewart, as elsewhere, tries to hold an intermediate position; to maintain the
independence of morality without committing himself to the 'ontological' or purely logical
view; and to show that virtue conduces to happiness without allowing that its dictates are
to be deduced from its tendency to produce happiness. His doctrine is to a great extent derived
from the teaching of Hutcheson and Bishop Butler. He really approximates most closely to Hutcheson,
who takes a similar view of Utilitarianism, but he professes the warmest admiration of Butler.
He explicitly accepts Butler's doctrine of the 'supremacy of the conscience'--a doctrine which
as he says, the bishop, 'has placed in the strongest and happiest light.'[188] He endeavours,
again, to approximate to the 'intellectual school,' of which Richard Price (1723-1791) was
the chief English representative at the time. Like Kant, Price deduces the moral law from principles
of pure reason. The truth of the moral law, 'Thou shalt do to others as you wish that they
should do to you,' is as evident as the truth of the law in geometry, 'things which are equal
to the same thing are equal to each other.' Stewart so far approves that he wishes to give
to the moral law what is now called all possible 'objectivity,' while the 'moral sense' of
Hutcheson apparently introduced a 'subjective' element. He holds, however, that our moral perceptions
'involve a feeling of the heart,' as well as a 'judgment of the understanding,'[189] and ascribes
the same view to Butler. But then, by using the word 'reason' so as to include the whole nature
of a rational being, we may ascribe to it the 'origin of those simple ideas which are not excited
in the mind by the operation of the senses, but which arise in consequence of the operation
of the intellectual powers among the various objects.'[190] Hutcheson, he says, made his 'moral
sense' unsatisfactory by taking his illustrations from the 'secondary' instead of the 'primary
qualities,'[191] and thus with the help of intuitive first principles, Stewart succeeds in
believing that it would be as hard for a man to believe that he ought to sacrifice another
man's happiness to his own as to believe that three angles of a triangle are equal to one right
angle.[192] It is true that a feeling and a judgment are both involved; but the 'intellectual
judgment' is the groundwork of the feeling, not the feeling of the judgment.[193] In spite,
however, of this attempt to assimilate his principles to those of the intellectual school,
the substance of Stewart's ethics is essentially psychological. It rests, in fact, upon his
view that philosophy depends upon inductive psychology, and, therefore, essentially upon experience
subject to the cropping up of convenient 'intuitions.'

This appears from the nature of his argument against the Utilitarians. In his time, this doctrine
was associated with the names of Hartley, Tucker, Godwin, and especially Paley. He scarcely
refers to Bentham.[194] Paley is the recognised anvil for the opposite school. Now he agrees,
as I have said, with Paley's view of natural theology and entirely accepts therefore the theory
of 'final causes.' The same theory becomes prominent in his ethical teaching. We may perhaps
say that Stewart's view is in substance an inverted Utilitarianism. It may be best illustrated
by an argument familiar in another application. Paley and his opponents might agree that the
various instincts of an animal are so constituted that in point of fact they contribute to
his preservation and his happiness. But from one point of view this appears to be simply to
say that the conditions of existence necessitate a certain harmony, and that the harmony is
therefore to be a consequence of his self-preservation. From the opposite point of view, which
Stewart accepts, it appears that the self-preservation is the consequence of a pre-established
harmony, which has been divinely appointed in order that he may live. Stewart, in short, is
a 'teleologist' of the Paley variety. Psychology proves the existence of design in the moral
world, as anatomy or physiology proves it in the physical.

Stewart therefore fully agrees that virtue generally produces happiness. If it be true (a doctrine,
he thinks, beyond our competence to decide) that 'the sole principle of action in the Deity'
is benevolence, it may be that he has commanded us to be virtuous because he sees virtue to
be useful. In this case utility may be the final cause of morality; and the fact that virtue
has this tendency gives the plausibility to utilitarian systems.[195] But the key to the difficulty
is the distinction between 'final' and 'efficient' causes; for the efficient cause of morality
is not the desire for happiness, but a primitive and simple instinct, namely, the moral faculty.

Thus he rejects Paley's notorious doctrine that virtue differs from prudence only in regarding
the consequences in another world instead of consequences in this.[196] Reward and punishment
'presuppose the notions of right and wrong' and cannot be the source of those notions. The
favourite doctrine of association, by which the Utilitarians explained unselfishness, is only
admissible as accounting for modifications, such as are due to education and example, but 'presupposes
the existence of certain principles which are common to all mankind.' The evidence of such
principles is established by a long and discursive psychological discussion. It is enough to
say that he admits two rational principles, 'self-love' and the 'moral faculty,' the coincidence
of which is learned only by experience. The moral faculty reveals simple 'ideas' of right and
wrong, which are incapable of any further analysis. But besides these, there is a hierarchy
of other instincts or desires, which he calls 'implanted' because 'for aught we know' they
may be of 'arbitrary appointment.'[197] Resentment, for example, is an implanted instinct,
of which the 'final cause' is to defend us against 'sudden violence.'[198] Stewart's analysis
is easygoing and suggests more problems than it solves. The general position, however, is clear
enough, and not, I think, without much real force as against the Paley form of utilitarianism.

The acceptance of the doctrine of 'final causes' was the inevitable course for a philosopher
who wishes to retain the old creeds and yet to appeal unequivocally to experience. It suits
the amiable optimism for which Stewart is noticeable. To prove the existence of a perfect deity
from the evidence afforded by the world, you must of course take a favourable view of the observable
order. Stewart shows the same tendency in his Political Economy, where he is Adam Smith's disciple,
and fully shares Smith's beliefs that the harmony between the interests of the individual and
the interests of the society is an evidence of design in the Creator of mankind. In this respect
Stewart differs notably from Butler, to whose reasonings he otherwise owed a good deal. With
Butler the conscience implies a dread of divine wrath and justifies the conception of a world
alienated from its maker. Stewart's 'moral faculty' simply recognises or reveals the moral
law; but carries no suggestion of supernatural penalties. The doctrines by which Butler attracted
some readers and revolted others throw no shadow over his writings. He is a placid enlightened
professor, whose real good feeling and frequent shrewdness should not be overlooked in consequence
of the rather desultory and often superficial mode of reasoning. This, however, suggests a
final remark upon Stewart's position.

In the preface[199] to his Active and Moral Powers (1828) Stewart apologises for the large
space given to the treatment of Natural Religion. The lectures, he says, which form the substance
of the book, were given at a time when 'enlightened zeal for liberty' was associated with the
'reckless boldness of the uncompromising freethinker.' He wished, therefore, to show that a
man could be a liberal without being an atheist. This gives the position characteristic of
Stewart and his friends. The group of eminent men who made Edinburgh a philosophical centre
was thoroughly in sympathy with the rationalist movement of the eighteenth century. The old
dogmatic system of belief could be held very lightly even by the more educated clergy. Hume's
position is significant. He could lay down the most unqualified scepticism in his writings;
but he always regarded his theories as intended for the enlightened; he had no wish to disturb
popular beliefs in theology, and was a strong Tory in politics. His friends were quite ready
to take him upon that footing. The politeness with which 'Mr. Hume's' speculations are noticed
by men like Stewart and Reid is in characteristic contrast to the reception generally accorded
to more popular sceptics. They were intellectual curiosities not meant for immediate application.
The real opinion of such men as Adam Smith and Stewart was probably a rather vague and optimistic
theism. In the professor's chair they could talk to lads intended for the ministry without
insulting such old Scottish prejudice (there was a good deal of it) as survived: and could
cover rationalising opinions under language which perhaps might have a different meaning for
their hearers. The position was necessarily one of tacit compromise. Stewart considers himself
to be an inductive philosopher appealing frankly to experience and reason; and was in practice
a man of thoroughly liberal and generous feelings. He was heartily in favour of progress as
he understood it. Only he will not sacrifice common sense; that is to say, the beliefs which
are in fact prevalent and congenial to existing institutions. Common sense, of course, condemns
extremes: and if logic seems to be pushing a man towards scepticism in philosophy or revolution
in practice, he can always protest by the convenient device of intuitions.

I have gone so far in order to illustrate the nature of the system which the Utilitarians took
to be the antithesis of their own. It may be finally remarked that at present both sides were
equally ignorant of contemporary developments of German thought. When Stewart became aware
that there was such a thing as Kant's philosophy, he tried to read it in a Latin version. Parr,
I may observe, apparently did not know of this version, and gave up the task of reading German.
Stewart's example was not encouraging. He had abandoned the 'undertaking in despair' partly
from the scholastic barbarism of the style, partly 'my utter inability to comprehend the author's
meaning.' He recognises similarity between Kant and Reid, but thinks Reid's simple statement
of the fact that space cannot be derived from the senses more philosophical than Kant's 'superstructure
of technical mystery.'[200]

I have dwelt upon the side in which Stewart's philosophy approximates to the empirical school,
because the Utilitarians were apt to misconceive the position. They took Stewart to be the
adequate representative of all who accepted one branch of an inevitable dilemma. The acceptance
of 'intuitions,' that is, was the only alternative to thoroughgoing acceptance of 'experience.'
They supposed, too, that persons vaguely described as 'Kant and the Germans' taught simply
a modification of the 'intuitionist' view. I have noticed how emphatically Stewart claimed
to rely upon experience and to base his philosophy upon inductive psychology, and was so far
admitting the first principles and the general methods of his opponents. The Scottish philosophy,
however, naturally presented itself as an antagonistic force to the Utilitarians. The 'intuitions'
represented the ultimate ground taken, especially in religious and ethical questions, by men
who wished to be at once liberal philosophers and yet to avoid revolutionary extremes. 'Intuitions'
had in any case a negative value, as protests against the sufficiency of the empirical analysis.
It might be quite true, for example, that Hume's analysis of certain primary mental phenomena--of
our belief in the external world or of the relation of cause and effect--was radically insufficient.
He had not given an adequate explanation of the facts. The recognition of the insufficiency
of his reasoning was highly important if only as a stimulus to inquiry. It was a warning to
his and to Hartley's followers that they had not thoroughly unravelled the perplexity but only
cut the knot. But when the insufficiency of the explanation was interpreted as a demonstration
that all explanation was impossible, and the 'intuition' an ultimate 'self-evident' truth,
it became a refusal to inquire just where inquiry was wanted; a positive command to stop analysis
at an arbitrary point; and a round assertion that the adversary could not help believing precisely
the doctrine which he altogether declined to believe. Naturally the empiricists refused to
bow to an authority which was simply saying, 'Don't inquire further,' without any ground for
the prohibition except the 'ipse dixitism' which declared that inquiry must be fruitless. Stewart,
in fact, really illustrated the equivocation between the two meanings of 'common sense.' If
by that name he understood, as he professed to understand, ultimate 'laws of thought,' his
position was justifiable as soon as he could specify the laws and prove that they were ultimate.
But so far as he virtually took for granted that the average beliefs of intelligent people
were such laws, and on that ground refused to examine the evidence of their validity, he was
inconsistent, and his position only invited assault. As a fact, I believe that his 'intuitions'
covered many most disputable propositions; and that the more clearly they were stated, the
more they failed to justify his interpretations. He was not really answering the most vital
and critical questions, but implicitly reserving them, and putting an arbitrary stop to investigations
desirable on his own principles.

The Scottish philosophy was, however, accepted in England, and made a considerable impression
in France, as affording a tenable barrier against scepticism. In philosophy as in politics,
the Utilitarians boasted of being thoroughgoing Radicals, and hated compromises which to them
appeared to be simply obstructive. I need not elaborate a point which will meet us again. If
I were writing a history of thought in general I should have to notice other writers, though
there were none of much distinction, who followed the teaching of Stewart or of his opponents
of the Hartley and Darwin school. It would be necessary also to insist upon the growing interest
in the physical sciences, which were beginning not only to make enormous advances, but to attract
popular attention. For my purpose, however, it is I think sufficient to mention these writers,
each of whom had a very special relation to the Utilitarians. I turn, therefore, to Bentham.

NOTES:

[157] Nine volumes of Dugald Stewart's works, edited by Sir W. Hamilton, appeared from 1854
to 1856; a tenth, including a life of Stewart by J. Veitch, appeared in 1858, and an eleventh,
with an index to the whole, in 1860. The chief books are the Elements of the Philosophy of
the Human Mind (in vols. ii., iii. and iv., originally in 1792, 1814, 1827); Philosophical
Essays (in vol. v., originally 1810); Philosophy of the Active and Moral Powers of Man (vols.
vi. and vii., originally in 1828); Dissertation on the Progress of Philosophy (in vol. i.;
originally in Encyclopædia Britannica, in 1815 and 1821). The lectures on Political Economy
first appeared in the Works, vols. viii. and ix.

[158] Works, vi. ('Preface').

[159] Works (Life of Reid), x. 304-8.

[160] Reid's Works (Hamilton), p. 302.

[161] Reid's Works (Hamilton), p. 88.

[162] Ibid. 206.

[163] Ibid. 267.

[164] Stewart's remarks on his life of Reid: Reid's Works, p. 12, etc.

[165] The World as Will and Idea (Haldane & Kemp), ii. 186. Reid's 'Inquiry,' he adds, is ten
times better worth reading than all the philosophy together which has been written since Kant.

[166] 'We are inspired with the sensation, as we are inspired with the corresponding perception,
by means unknown.'--Reid's Works, 188. 'This,' says Stewart, 'is a plain statement of fact.'--Stewart's
Works, ii. 111-12.

[167] See Rosmini's Origin of Ideas (English translation), i. p. 91, where, though sympathising
with Reid's aim, he admits a 'great blunder.'

[168] Stewart's Works, v. 24-53. Hamilton says in a note (p. 41) that Jeffrey candidly confessed
Stewart's reply to be satisfactory.

[169] Ibid. ii. 46.

[170] Ibid. ii. 45-67.

[171] Ibid. ii. 159.

[172] Ibid. v. 21.

[173] Stewart's Works, ii. 165-93; iii. 81-97. Schopenhauer (The World as Will and Idea, ii.
240) admires Reid's teaching upon this point, and recommends us not 'to waste an hour over
the scribblings of this shallow writer' (Stewart).

[174] Rosmini's Origin of Ideas (English translation), i. 96-176.

[175] Ibid. i. 147 n.

[176] Stewart's Works, iv. 29, 35, 38, and v. 149-88.

[177] Ibid. ii. 97, etc., and iii. 235, 389, 417.

[178] Works, vii. 13-34.

[179] Ibid. vii. 26, etc.

[180] Works, iv. 265.

[181] Ibid. ii. 52.

[182] Ibid. v. 10.

[183] Works, ii. 155.

[184] Ibid. ii. 337.

[185] Works, vi. 46; vii. 11.

[186] Ibid. vii. 46.

[187] Ibid. i. 357.

[188] Works, vi. 320.

[189] Ibid. vi. 279.

[190] Ibid. vi. 297.

[191] Works, vi. 295. Cf. v. 83.

[192] Ibid. vi. 298-99.

[193] Ibid. v. 84.

[194] In Works, vi. 205-6, he quotes Dumont's Bentham; but his general silence is the more
significant, as in the lectures on Political Economy he makes frequent and approving reference
to Bentham's tract upon usury.

[195] Works, vii. 236-38.

[196] Ibid. vi. 221.

[197] Works, vi. 213.

[198] Ibid. vi. 199.

[199] Works, vi. 111.

[200] Works, v. 117 18. I have given some details as to Stewart's suffering under an English
proselyte of Kant in my Studies of a Biographer.

CHAPTER V

BENTHAM'S LIFE

I. EARLY LIFE

Jeremy Bentham,[201] the patriarch of the English Utilitarians, sprang from the class imbued
most thoroughly with the typical English prejudices. His first recorded ancestor, Brian Bentham,
was a pawnbroker, who lost money by the stop of the Exchequer in 1672, but was neither ruined,
nor, it would seem, alienated by the king's dishonesty. He left some thousands to his son,
Jeremiah, an attorney and a strong Jacobite. A second Jeremiah, born 2nd December 1712, carried
on his father's business, and though his clients were not numerous, increased his fortune by
judicious investments in houses and lands. Although brought up in Jacobite principles, he transferred
his attachment to the Hanoverian dynasty when a relation of his wife married a valet of George
II. The wife, Alicia Grove, was daughter of a tradesman who had made a small competence at
Andover. Jeremiah Bentham had fallen in love with her at first sight, and wisely gave up for
her sake a match with a fortune of £10,000. The couple were fondly attached to each other and
to their children. The marriage took place towards the end of 1744, and the eldest son, Jeremy,
was born in Red Lion Street, Houndsditch, 4th February 1747-48 (o.s.) The only other child
who grew up was Samuel, afterwards Sir Samuel Bentham, born 11th January 1757. When eighty
years old, Jeremy gave anecdotes of his infancy to his biographer, Bowring, who says that their
accuracy was confirmed by contemporary documents, and proved his memory to be as wonderful
as his precocity. Although the child was physically puny, his intellectual development was
amazing. Before he was two he burst into tears at the sight of his mother's chagrin upon his
refusal of some offered dainty. Before he was 'breeched,' an event which happened when he was
three and a quarter, he ran home from a dull walk, ordered a footman to bring lights and place
a folio Rapin upon the table, and was found plunged in historical studies when his parents
returned to the house. In his fourth year he was imbibing the Latin grammar, and at the age
of five years nine months and nineteen days, as his father notes, he wrote a scrap of Latin,
carefully pasted among the parental memoranda. The child was not always immured in London.
His parents spent their Sundays with the grandfather Bentham at Barking, and made occasional
excursions to the house of Mrs. Bentham's mother at Browning Hill, near Reading. Bentham remembered
the last as a 'paradise,' and a love of flowers and gardens became one of his permanent passions.

Jeremy cherished the memory of his mother's tenderness. The father, though less sympathetic,
was proud of his son's precocity, and apparently injudicious in stimulating the unformed intellect.
The boy was almost a dwarf in size. When sixteen he grew ahead,[202] and was so feeble that
he could scarcely drag himself upstairs. Attempts to teach him dancing failed from the extreme
weakness of his knees.[203] He showed a taste for music, and could scrape a minuet on the fiddle
at six years of age. He read all such books as came in his way. His parents objected to light
literature, and he was crammed with such solid works as Rapin, Burnet's Theory of the Earth,
and Cave's Lives of the Apostles. Various accidents, however, furnished him with better food
for the imagination. He wept for hours over Clarissa Harlowe, studied Gulliver's Travels as
an authentic document, and dipped into a variety of such books as then drifted into middle-class
libraries. A French teacher introduced him to some remarkable books. He read Télémaque, which
deeply impressed him, and, as he thought, implanted in his mind the seeds of later moralising.
He attacked unsuccessfully some of Voltaire's historical works, and even read Candide, with
what emotions we are not told. The servants meanwhile filled his fancy with ghosts and hobgoblins.
To the end of his days he was still haunted by the imaginary horrors in the dark,[204] and
he says[205] that they had been among the torments of his life. He had few companions of his
own age, and though he was 'not unhappy' and was never subjected to corporal punishment, he
felt more awe than affection for his father. His mother, to whom he was strongly attached,
died on 6th January 1759.

Bentham was thus a strangely precocious, and a morbidly sensitive child, when it was decided
in 1755 to send him to Westminster. The headmaster, Dr. Markham, was a friend of his father's.
Westminster, he says, represented 'hell' for him when Browning Hill stood for paradise. The
instruction 'was wretched,' The fagging system was a 'horrid despotism.' The games were too
much for his strength. His industry, however, enabled him to escape the birch, no small achievement
in those days,[206] and he became distinguished in the studies such as they were. He learned
the catechism by heart, and was good at Greek and Latin verses, which he manufactured for his
companions as well as himself. He had also the rarer accomplishment, acquired from his early
tutor, of writing more easily in French than English. Some of his writings were originally
composed in French. He was, according to Bowring, elected to one of the King's scholarships
when between nine and ten, but as 'ill-usage was apprehended' the appointment was declined.[207]
He was at a boarding-house, and the life of the boys on the foundation was probably rougher.
In June 1760 his father took him to Oxford, and entered him as a commoner at Queen's College.
He came into residence in the following October, when only twelve years old. Oxford was not
more congenial than Westminster. He had to sign the Thirty-nine Articles in spite of scruples
suppressed by authority. The impression made upon him by this childish compliance never left
him to the end of his life.[208] His experience resembled that of Adam Smith and Gibbon. Laziness
and vice were prevalent. A gentleman commoner of Queen's was president of a 'hellfire club,'
and brutal horseplay was still practised upon the weaker lads. Bentham, still a schoolboy in
age, continued his schoolboy course. He wrote Latin verses, and one of his experiments, an
ode upon the death of George II., was sent to Johnson, who called it 'a very pretty performance
for a young man.' He also had to go through the form of disputation in the schools. Queen's
College had some reputation at this time for teaching logic.[209] Bentham was set to read Watt's
Logic (1725), Sanderson's Compendium artis Logicae (1615), and Rowning's Compendious System
of Natural Philosophy (1735-42). Some traces of these studies remained in his mind.

In 1763 Bentham took his B.A. degree, and returned to his home. It is significant that when
robbed of all his money at Oxford he did not confide in his father. He was paying by a morbid
reserve for the attempts made to force him into premature activity. He accepted the career
imposed by his father's wishes, and in November 1763 began to eat his dinners in Lincoln's
Inn. He returned, however, to Oxford in December to hear Blackstone's lectures. These lectures
were then a novelty at an English university. The Vinerian professorship had been founded in
1758 in consequence of the success of a course voluntarily given by Blackstone; and his lectures
contained the substance of the famous Commentaries, first published 1765-1769. They had a great
effect upon Bentham. He says that he 'immediately detected Blackstone's fallacy respecting
natural rights,' thought other doctrines illogical, and was so much occupied by these reflections
as to be unable to take notes. Bentham's dissatisfaction with Blackstone had not yet made him
an opponent of the constituted order. He was present at some of the proceedings against Wilkes,
and was perfectly bewitched by Lord Mansfield's 'Grim-gibber,' that is, taken in by his pompous
verbiage.[210]

In 1765 his father married Mrs. Abbot, the mother of Charles Abbot, afterwards Lord Colchester.
Bentham's dislike of his step-mother increased the distance between him and his father. He
took his M.A. degree in 1766 and in 1767 finally left Oxford for London to begin, as his father
fondly hoped, a flight towards the woolsack. The lad's diffidence and extreme youth had indeed
prevented him from forming the usual connections which his father anticipated as the result
of a college life. His career as a barrister was short and grievously disappointing to the
parental hopes. His father, like the Elder Fairford in Redgauntlet, had 'a cause or two at
nurse' for the son. The son's first thought was to 'put them to death,' A brief was given to
him in a suit, upon which £50 depended. He advised that the suit should be dropped and the
money saved. Other experiences only increased his repugnance to his profession.[211] A singularly
strong impression had been made upon him by the Memoirs of Teresa Constantia Phipps, in which
there is an account of vexatious legal proceedings as to the heroine's marriage. He appears
to have first read this book in 1759. Then, he says, the 'Demon of Chicane appeared to me in
all his hideousness. I vowed war against him. My vow has been accomplished!'[212] Bentham thus
went to the bar as a 'bear to the stake.' He diverged in more than one direction. He studied
chemistry under Fordyce (1736-1802), and hankered after physical science. He was long afterwards
(1788) member of a club to which Sir Joseph Banks, John Hunter, R. L. Edgeworth, and other
men of scientific reputation belonged.[213] But he had drifted into a course of speculation,
which, though more germane to legal studies, was equally fatal to professional success. The
father despaired, and he was considered to be a 'lost child.'

NOTES:

[201] The main authority for Bentham's Life is Bowring's account in the two last volumes of
the Works. Bain's Life of James Mill gives some useful facts as to the later period. There
is comparatively little mention of Bentham in contemporary memoirs. Little is said of him in
Romilly's Life. Parr's Works, i. and viii., contains some letters. See also R. Dale Owen's
Threading my Way pp. 175-78. A little book called Utilitarianism Unmasked, by the Rev. J. F.
Colls, D.D. (1844), gives some reminiscences by Colls, who had been Bentham's amanuensis for
fourteen years. Colls, who took orders, disliked Bentham's religious levity, and denounces
his vanity, but admits his early kindness. Voluminous collections of the papers used by Bowring
are at University College, and at the British Museum.

[202] Works, x. 33.

[203] Ibid. x. 31.

[204] Ibid. ix. 84.

[205] Ibid. x. 18.

[206] Southey was expelled from Westminster in 1792 for attacking the birch in a schoolboy paper.

[207] Works, x. 38. Bowring's confused statement, I take it, means this. Bentham, in any case,
was not on the foundation. See Welsh's Alumni West.

[208] Works, x. 37.

[209] Ibid. viii. 113, 217.

[210] Works, x. 45.

[211] Ibid. x. 51, 78, 83.

[212] Works, x. 35, 77. References are given to this book in Works, vii. 219-20 ('Rationale
of Evidence'). Several editions appeared from 1725 to 1761. See Works, vi. 465, for a recollection
of similar experiences.

[213] Ibid. viii. 148 n.; x. 183.

II. FIRST WRITINGS

Though lost to the bar, he had really found himself. He had taken the line prescribed by his
idiosyncrasy. His father's injudicious forcing had increased his shyness at the bar, and he
was like an owl in daylight. But no one, as we shall see, was less diffident in speculation.
Self-confidence in a philosopher is often the private credit which he opens with his imagination
to compensate for his incapacity in the rough struggles of active life. Bentham shrank from
the world in which he was easily browbeaten to the study in which he could reign supreme. He
had not the strong passions which prompt commonplace ambition, and cared little for the prizes
for which most men will sacrifice their lives. Nor, on the other hand, can he be credited with
that ardent philanthropy or vehement indignation which prompts to an internecine struggle with
actual wrongdoers. He had not the ardour which led Howard to devote a life to destroy abuses,
or that which turned Swift's blood to gall in the struggle against triumphant corruption. He
was thoroughly amiable, but of kindly rather than energetic affections. He, therefore, desired
reform, but so far from regarding the ruling classes with rancour, took their part against
the democrats. 'I was a great reformist,' he says, 'but never suspected that the "people in
power" were against reform. I supposed they only wanted to know what was good in order to embrace
it.'[214] The most real of pleasures for him lay in speculating upon the general principles
by which the 'people in power' should be guided. To construct a general chart for legislation,
to hunt down sophistries, to explode mere noisy rhetoric, to classify and arrange and re-classify
until his whole intellectual wealth was neatly arranged in proper pigeon-holes, was a delight
for its own sake. He wished well to mankind; he detested abuses, but he hated neither the corrupted
nor the corruptors; and it might almost seem that he rather valued the benevolent end, because
it gave employment to his faculties, than valued the employment because it led to the end.
This is implied in his remark made at the end of his life. He was, he said, as selfish as a
man could be; but 'somehow or other' selfishness had in him taken the form of benevolence.[215]
He was at any rate in the position of a man with the agreeable conviction that he has only
to prove the wisdom of a given course in order to secure its adoption. Like many mechanical
inventors, he took for granted that a process which was shown to be useful would therefore
be at once adopted, and failed to anticipate the determined opposition of the great mass of
'vested interests' already in possession.

At this period he made the discovery, or what he held to be the discovery, which governed his
whole future career. He laid down the principle which was to give the clue to all his investigations;
and, as he thought, required only to be announced to secure universal acceptance. When Bentham
revolted against the intellectual food provided at school and college, he naturally took up
the philosophy which at that period represented the really living stream of thought. To be
a man of enlightenment in those days was to belong to the school of Locke. Locke represented
reason, free thought, and the abandonment of prejudice. Besides Locke, he mentions Hume, Montesquieu,
Helvétius, Beccaria, and Barrington. Helvétius especially did much to suggest to him his leading
principle, and upon country trips which he took with his father and step-mother, he used to
lag behind studying Helvétius' De l'Esprit.[216] Locke, he says in an early note (1773-1774),
should give the principles, Helvétius the matter, of a complete digest of the law. He mentions
with especial interest the third volume of Hume's Treatise on Human Nature for its ethical
views: 'he felt as if scales fell from his eyes' when he read it.[217] Daines Barrington's
Observations on the Statutes (1766) interested him by miscellaneous suggestions. The book,
he says,[218] was a 'great treasure.' 'It is everything, à propos of everything; I wrote volumes
upon this volume.' Beccaria's treatise upon crimes and punishments had appeared in 1764, and
had excited the applause of Europe. The world was clearly ready for a fundamental reconstruction
of legislative theories. Under the influence of such studies Bentham formulated his famous
principle--a principle which to some seemed a barren truism, to others a mere epigram, and
to some a dangerous falsehood. Bentham accepted it not only as true, but as expressing a truth
of extraordinary fecundity, capable of guiding him through the whole labyrinth of political
and legislative speculation. His 'fundamental axiom' is that 'the greatest happiness of the
greatest number is the measure of right and wrong.'[219] Bentham himself[220] attributes the
authorship of the phrase to Beccaria or Priestley. The general order of thought to which this
theory belongs was of course not the property of any special writer or any particular period.
Here I need only observe that this embodiment of the general doctrine of utility or morality
had been struck out by Hutcheson in the attempt (as his title says) 'to introduce a mathematical
calculation on subjects of morality.' This defines the exact reason which made it acceptable
to Bentham. For the vague reference to utility which appears in Hume and other writers of his
school, he substituted a formula, the terms of which suggest the possibility of an accurate
quantitative comparison of different sums of happiness. In Bentham's mind the difference between
this and the more general formula was like the difference between the statement that the planets
gravitate towards the sun, and the more precise statement that the law of gravitation varies
inversely as the square of the distance. Bentham hoped for no less an achievement than to become
the Newton of the moral world.

Bentham, after leaving Oxford, took chambers in Lincoln's Inn. His father on his second marriage
had settled some property upon him, which brought in some £90 a year. He had to live like a
gentleman upon this, and to give four guineas a year to the laundress, four to his barber,
and two to his shoeblack. In spite of Jeremy's deviation from the path of preferment, the two
were on friendly terms, and when the hopes of the son's professional success grew faint, the
father showed sympathy with his literary undertakings. Jeremy visited Paris in 1770, but made
few acquaintances, though he was already regarded as a 'philosopher.' In 1778 he was in correspondence
with d'Alembert, the abbé Morellet, and other philanthropic philosophers, but it does not appear
at what time this connection began.[221] He translated Voltaire's Taureau Blanc[222]--a story
which used to 'convulse him with laughter.' A reference to it will show that Bentham by this
time took the Voltairean view of the Old Testament. Bentham, however, was still on the side
of the Tories. His first publication was a defence of Lord Mansfield in 1770 against attacks
arising out of the prosecution of Woodfall for publishing Junius's letter to the king. This
defence, contained in two letters, signed Irenæus, was published in the Gazetteer. Bentham's
next performance was remarkable in the same sense. Among the few friends who drifted to his
chambers was John Lind (1737-1781), who had been a clergyman, and after acting as tutor to
a prince in Poland, had returned to London and become a writer for the press. He had business
relations with the elder Bentham, and the younger Bentham was to some extent his collaborator
in a pamphlet[223] which defended the conduct of ministers to the American colonies. Bentham
observes that he was prejudiced against the Americans by the badness of their arguments, and
thought from the first, as he continued to think, that the Declaration of Independence was
a hodge-podge of confusion and absurdity, in which the thing to be proved is all along taken
for granted.[224] Two other friendships were formed by Bentham about this time: one with James
Trail, an unsuccessful barrister, who owed a seat in Parliament and some minor offices to Lord
Hertford, and is said by Romilly to have been a man of great talent; and one with George Wilson,
afterwards a leader of the Norfolk circuit, who had become known to him through a common interest
in Dr. Fordyce's lectures upon chemistry. Wilson became a bosom friend, and was one of Bentham's
first disciples, though they were ultimately alienated.[225]

At this time, Bentham says, that his was 'truly a miserable life.'[226] Yet he was getting
to work upon his grand project. He tells his father on 1st October 1776 that he is writing
his Critical Elements of Jurisprudence, the book of which a part was afterwards published as
the Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation.[227] In the same year he published
his first important work, the Fragment on Government. The year was in many ways memorable.
The Declaration of Independence marked the opening of a new political era. Adam Smith's Wealth
of Nations and Gibbon's Decline and Fall formed landmarks in speculation and in history; and
Bentham's volume, though it made no such impression, announced a serious attempt to apply scientific
methods to problems of legislation. The preface contained the first declaration of his famous
formula which was applied to the confutation of Blackstone. Bentham was apparently roused to
this effort by recollections of the Oxford lectures. The Commentaries contained a certain quantity
of philosophical rhetoric; and as Blackstone was much greater in a literary than in a philosophical
sense, the result was naturally unsatisfactory from a scientific point of view. He had vaguely
appealed to the sound Whig doctrine of social compact, and while disavowing any strict historical
basis had not inquired too curiously what was left of his supposed foundation. Bentham pounced
upon the unfortunate bit of verbiage; insisted upon asking for a meaning when there was nothing
but a rhetorical flourish, and tore the whole flimsy fabric to rags and tatters. A more bitter
attack upon Blackstone, chiefly, as Bowring says, upon his defence of the Jewish law, was suppressed
for fear of the law of libel.[228] The Fragment was published anonymously, but Bentham had
confided the secret to his father by way of suggesting some slight set-off against his apparent
unwillingness to emerge from obscurity. The book was at first attributed to Lord Mansfield,
Lord Camden, and to Dunning. It was pirated in Dublin; and most of the five hundred copies
printed appear to have been sold, though without profit to the author. The father's indiscretion
let out the secret; and the sale, when the book was known to be written by a nobody, fell off
at once, or so Bentham believed. The anonymous writer, however, was denounced and accused of
being the author of much ribaldry, and among other accusations was said to be not only the
translator but the writer of the White Bull.[229]

Bentham had fancied that all manner of 'torches from the highest regions' would come to light
themselves at his 'farthing candle.' None of them came, and he was left for some years in obscurity,
though still labouring at the great work which was one day to enlighten the world. At last,
however, partial recognition came to him in a shape which greatly influenced his career. Lord
Shelburne, afterwards marquis of Lansdowne, had been impressed by the Fragment, and in 1781
sought out Bentham at his chambers. Shelburne's career was to culminate in the following year
with his brief tenure of the premiership (3rd July 1782 to 24th February 1783). Rightly or
wrongly his contemporaries felt the distrust indicated by his nickname 'Malagrida,' which appears
to have been partly suggested by a habit of overstrained compliment. He incurred the dislike
not unfrequently excited by men who claim superiority of intellect without possessing the force
of character which gives a corresponding weight in political affairs. Although his education
had been bad, he had something of that cosmopolitan training which enabled many members of
the aristocracy to look beyond the narrow middle-class prejudices and share in some degree
the wider philosophical movements of the day. He had enjoyed the friendship of Franklin, and
had been the patron of Priestley, who made some of his chemical discoveries at Bowood, and
to whom he allowed an annuity. He belonged to that section of the Whigs which had most sympathy
with the revolutionary movement. His chief political lieutenants were Dunning and Barré, who
at the time sat for his borough Calne. He now rapidly formed an intimacy with Bentham, who
went to stay at Bowood in the autumn of 1781. Bentham now and then in later years made some
rather disparaging remarks upon Shelburne, whom he apparently considered to be rather an amateur
than a serious philosopher, and who in the House of Lords talked 'vague generalities'--the
sacred phrase by which the Utilitarians denounced all preaching but their own--in a way to
impose upon the thoughtless. He respected Shelburne, however, as one who trusted the people,
and was distrusted by the Whig aristocracy. He felt, too, a real affection and gratitude for
the patron to whom he owed so much. Shelburne had done him a great service.[230] 'He raised
me from the bottomless pit of humiliation. He made me feel I was something.' The elder Bentham
was impressed by his son's acquaintance with a man in so eminent a position, and hoped that
it might lead by a different path to the success which had been missed at the bar. At Bowood
Bentham stayed over a month upon his first visit, and was treated in the manner appropriate
to a philosopher. The men showed him friendliness, dashed with occasional contempt, and the
ladies petted him. He met Lord Camden and Dunning and young William Pitt, and some minor adherents
of the great man. Pitt was 'very good-natured and a little raw.' I was monstrously 'frightened
at him,' but, when I came to talk with him, he seemed 'frightened at me.'[231] Bentham, however,
did not see what ideas they were likely to have in common. In fact there was the usual gulf
between the speculative thinker and the practical man. 'All the statesmen,' so thought the
philosopher, 'were wanting in the great elements of statesmanship': they were always talking
about 'what was' and seldom or never about 'what ought to be.'[232] Occasionally, it would
seem, they descended lower, and made a little fun of the shy and over-sensitive intruder.[233]
The ladies, however, made it up to him. Shelburne made him read his 'dry metaphysics' to them,[234]
and they received it with feminine docility. Lord Shelburne had lately (1779) married his second
wife, Louisa, daughter of the first earl of Upper Ossory. Her sister, Lady Mary Fitz-Patrick,
married in 1766 to Stephen Fox, afterwards Lord Holland, was the mother of the Lord Holland
of later days and of Miss Caroline Fox, who survived till 1845, and was at this time a pleasant
girl of thirteen or fourteen. Lady Shelburne had also two half-sisters, daughters of her mother's
second marriage to Richard Vernon. Lady Shelburne took a fancy to Bentham, and gave him the
'prodigious privilege' of admission to her dressing-room. Though haughty in manner, she was
mild in reality, and after a time she and her sister indulged in 'innocent gambols.' In her
last illness, Bentham was one of the only two men whom she would see, and upon her death in
1789, he was the only male friend to whom her husband turned for consolation. Miss Fox seems
to have been the only woman who inspired Bentham with a sentiment approaching to passion. He
wrote occasional letters to the ladies in the tone of elephantine pleasantry natural to one
who was all his life both a philosopher and a child.[235] He made an offer of marriage to Miss
Fox in 1805, when he was nearer sixty than fifty, and when they had not met for sixteen years.
The immediate occasion was presumably the death of Lord Lansdowne. She replied in a friendly
letter, regretting the pain which her refusal would inflict. In 1827 Bentham, then in his eightieth
year, wrote once more, speaking of the flower she had given him 'in the green lane,' and asking
for a kind answer. He was 'indescribably hurt and disappointed' by a cold and distant reply.
The tears would come into the old man's eyes as he dealt upon the cherished memories of Bowood.[236]
It is pleasant to know that Bentham was once in love; though his love seems to have been chiefly
for a memory associated with what he called the happiest time of his life.

Shelburne had a project for a marriage between Bentham and the widow of Lord Ashburton (Dunning),
who died in 1783.[237] He also made some overtures of patronage. 'He asked me,' says Bentham,[238]
'what he could do for me? I told him, nothing,' and this conduct--so different from that of
others, 'endeared me to him.' Bentham declined one offer in 1788; but in 1790 he suddenly took
it into his head that Lansdowne had promised him a seat in parliament; and immediately set
forth his claims in a vast argumentative letter of sixty-one pages.[239] Lansdowne replied
conclusively that he had not made the supposed promise, and had had every reason to suppose
that Bentham preferred retirement to politics. Bentham accepted the statement frankly, though
a short coolness apparently followed. The claim, in fact, only represented one of those passing
moods to which Bentham was always giving way at odd moments.

Bentham's intimacy at Bowood led to more important results. In 1788 he met Romilly and Dumont
at Lord Lansdowne's table.[240] He had already met Romilly in 1784 through Wilson, but after
this the intimacy became close. Romilly had fallen in love with the Fragment, and in later
life he became Bentham's adviser in practical matters, and the chief if not the sole expounder
of Bentham's theories in parliament.[241] The alliance with Dumont was of even greater importance.
Dumont, born at Geneva in 1759, had become a Protestant minister; he was afterwards tutor to
Shelburne's son, and in 1788 visited Paris with Romilly and made acquaintance with Mirabeau.
Romilly showed Dumont some of Bentham's papers written in French. Dumont offered to rewrite
and to superintend their publication. He afterwards received other papers from Bentham himself,
with whom he became personally acquainted after his return from Paris.[242] Dumont became Bentham's
most devoted disciple, and laboured unweariedly upon the translation and condensation of his
master's treatise. One result is odd enough. Dumont, it is said, provided materials for some
of Mirabeau's 'most splendid' speeches; and some of these materials came from Bentham.[243]
One would like to see how Bentham's prose was transmuted into an oratory by Mirabeau. In any
case, Dumont's services to Bentham were invaluable. It is painful to add that according to
Bowring the two became so much alienated in the end, that in 1827 Bentham refused to see Dumont,
and declared that his chief interpreter did 'not understand a word of his meaning.' Bowring
attributes this separation to a remark made by Dumont about the shabbiness of Bentham's dinners
as compared with those at Lansdowne House--a comparison which he calls 'offensive, uncalled-for,
and groundless.'[244] Bentham apparently argued that a man who did not like his dinners could
not appreciate his theories: a fallacy excusable only by the pettishness of old age. Bowring,
however, had a natural dulness which distorted many anecdotes transmitted through him; and
we may hope that in this case there was some exaggeration.

Bentham's emergence was, meanwhile, very slow. The great men whom he met at Lord Lansdowne's
were not specially impressed by the shy philosopher. Wedderburn, so he heard, pronounced the
fatal word 'dangerous' in regard to the Fragment.[245] How, thought Bentham, can utility be
dangerous? Is this not self-contradictory? Later reflection explained the puzzle. What is useful
to the governed need not be therefore useful to the governors. Mansfield, who was known to
Lind, said that in some parts the author of the Fragment was awake and in others was asleep.
In what parts? Bentham wondered. Awake, he afterwards considered, in the parts where Blackstone,
the object of Mansfield's personal 'heart-burning,' was attacked; asleep where Mansfield's
own despotism was threatened. Camden was contemptuous; Dunning only 'scowled' at him; and Barré,
after taking in his book, gave it back with the mysterious information that he had 'got into
a scrape.'[246] The great book, therefore, though printed in 1781,[247] 'stuck for eight years,'[248]
and the writer continued his obscure existence in Lincoln's Inn.[249] An opinion which he gave
in some question as to the evidence in Warren Hastings's trial made, he says, an impression
in his favour. Before publication was achieved, however, a curious episode altered Bentham's
whole outlook. His brother Samuel (1757-1831), whose education he had partly superintended,[250]
had been apprenticed to a shipwright at Woolwich, and in 1780 had gone to Russia in search
of employment. Three years later he was sent by Prince Potemkin to superintend a great industrial
establishment at Kritchev on a tributary of the Dnieper. There he was to be 'Jack-of-all-trades--building
ships, like Harlequin, of odds and ends--a rope-maker, a sail-maker, a distiller, brewer, malster,
tanner, glass-man, glass-grinder, potter, hemp-spinner, smith, and coppersmith.'[251] He was,
that is, to transplant a fragment of ready-made Western civilisation into Russia. Bentham resolved
to pay a visit to his brother, to whom he was strongly attached. He left England in August
1785, and stayed some time at Constantinople, where he met Maria James (1770-1836), the wife
successively of W. Reveley and of John Gisborne, and the friend of Shelley. Thence he travelled
by land to Kritchev, and settled with his brother at the neighbouring estate of Zadobras. Bentham
here passed a secluded life, interested in his brother's occupations and mechanical inventions,
and at the same time keeping up his own intellectual labours. The most remarkable result was
the Defence of Usury, written in the beginning of 1787. Bentham appends to it a respectful
letter to Adam Smith, who had supported the laws against usury inconsistently with his own
general principles. The disciple was simply carrying out those principles to the logical application
from which the master had shrunk. The manuscript was sent to Wilson, who wished to suppress
it.[252] The elder Bentham obtained it, and sent it to the press. The book met Bentham as he
was returning. It was highly praised by Thomas Reid,[253] and by the Monthly Review; it was
translated into various languages, and became one of the sacred books of the Economists. Wilson
is described as 'cold and cautious,' and he suppressed another pamphlet upon prison discipline.[254]
In a letter to Bentham, dated 26th February 1787, however, Wilson disavows any responsibility
for the delay in the publication of the great book. 'The cause,' he says, 'lies in your constitution.
With one-tenth part of your genius, and a common degree of steadiness, both Sam and you would
long since have risen to great eminence. But your history, since I have known you, has been
to be always running from a good scheme to a better. In the meantime life passes away and nothing
is completed.' He entreated Bentham to return, and his entreaties were seconded by Trail, who
pointed out various schemes of reform, especially of the poor-laws, in which Bentham might
be useful. Wilson had mentioned already another inducement to publication. 'There is,' he says,
on 24th September 1786, 'a Mr. Paley, a parson and archdeacon of Carlisle, who has written
a book called Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy, in quarto, and it has gone through
two editions with prodigious applause.' He fears that Bentham will be charged with stealing
from Paley, and exhorts him to come home and 'establish a great literary reputation in your
own language, and in this country which you despise.'[255] Bentham at last started homewards.
He travelled through Poland, Germany, and Holland, and reached London at the beginning of February
1788. He settled at a little farmhouse at Hendon, bought a 'superb harpsichord,' resumed his
occupations, and saw a small circle of friends. Wilson urged him to publish his Introduction
without waiting to complete the vast scheme to which it was to be a prologue. Copies of the
printed book were already abroad, and there was a danger of plagiarism. Thus urged, Bentham
at last yielded, and the Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation appeared
in 1789. The preface apologised for imperfections due to the plan of his work. The book, he
explained, laid down the principles of all his future labours, and was to stand to him in the
relation of a treatise upon pure mathematics to a treatise upon the applied sciences. He indicated
ten separate departments of legislation, each of which would require a treatise in order to
the complete execution of his scheme.

The book gives the essence of Bentham's theories, and is the one large treatise published by
himself. The other works were only brought to birth by the help of disciples. Dumont, in the
discourse prefixed to the Traités, explains the reason. Bentham, he says, would suspend a whole
work and begin a new one because a single proposition struck him as doubtful. A problem of
finance would send him to a study of Political Economy in general. A question of procedure
would make him pause until he had investigated the whole subject of judicial organisation.
While at work, he felt only the pleasure of composition. When his materials required form and
finish, he felt only the fatigue. Disgust succeeded to charm; and he could scarcely be induced
to interrupt his labours upon fresh matter in order to give to his interpreter the explanations
necessary for the elucidation of his previous writings. He was without the literary vanity
or the desire for completion which may prompt to premature publication, but may at least prevent
the absolute waste of what has been already achieved. His method of writing was characteristic.
He began by forming a complete logical scheme for the treatment of any subject, dividing and
subdividing so as to secure an exhaustive classification of the whole matter of discussion.
Then taking up any subdivision, he wrote his remarks upon sheets, which were put aside after
being marked with references indicating their place in the final treatise. He never turned
to these again. In time he would exhaust the whole subject, and it would then be the duty of
his disciples simply to put together the bricks according to the indications placed upon each
in order to construct the whole edifice.[256] As, however, the plan would frequently undergo
a change, and as each fragment had been written without reference to the others, the task of
ultimate combination and adaptation of the ultimate atoms was often very perplexing. Bentham,
as we shall see, formed disciples ardent enough to put together these scattered documents as
the disciples of Mahomet put together the Koran. Bentham's revelation was possibly less influential
than Mahomet's; but the logical framework was far more coherent.

Bentham's mind was for the present distracted. He had naturally returned full of information
about Russia. The English ministry were involved in various negotiations with Russia, Sweden,
and Denmark, the purpose of which was to thwart the designs of Russia in the East. Bentham
wrote three letters to the Public Advertiser, signed Anti-Machiavel,[257] protesting against
the warlike policy. Bentham himself believed that the effect was decisive, and that the 'war
was given up' in consequence of his arguments. Historians[258] scarcely sanction this belief,
which is only worth notice because it led to another belief, oddly characteristic of Bentham.
A letter signed 'Partizan' in the Public Advertiser replied to his first two letters. Who was
'Partizan'? Lord Lansdowne amused himself by informing Bentham that he was no less a personage
than George III. Bentham, with even more than his usual simplicity, accepted this hoax as a
serious statement. He derived no little comfort from the thought; for to the antipathy thus
engendered in the 'best of kings' he attributed the subsequent failure of his Panopticon scheme.[259]

NOTES:

[214] Works, x. 66.

[215] Ibid. xi. 95.

[216] Works, x. 54.

[217] Ibid. i. 268 n.

[218] Works, x. 121.

[219] Ibid. i. 227.

[220] Ibid. x. 79, 142. See also Deontology, i. 298-302, where Bentham speaks of discovering
the phrase in Priestley's Essay on Government in 1768. Hutcheson's Enquiry concerning Moral
Good and Evil, 1725, see iii. § 8, says 'that action is best which secures the greatest happiness
of the greatest number.' Beccaria, in the preface to his essay, speaks of la massima felicità
divisa nel maggior numero. J. S. Mill says that he found the word 'Utilitarian' in Galt's Annals
of the Parish, and gave the name to the society founded by him in 1822-1823 (Autobiography,
p. 79). The word had been used by Bentham himself in 1781, and he suggested it to Dumont in
1802 as the proper name of the party, instead of 'Benthamite' (Works, x. 92, 390). He afterwards
thought it a bad name, because it gave a 'vague idea' (Works, x. 582), and substituted 'greatest
happiness principle' for 'principle of utility' (Works, i. 'Morals and Legislation').

[221] A letter in the Additional MSS. 33, 537, shows that Bentham sent his 'Fragment' and his
'Hard Labour' pamphlet to d'Alembert in 1778, apparently introducing himself for the first
time. Cf. Works, x. 87-88, 193-94.

[222] The translation of 1774. See Lowndes' Manual under Voltaire, Works, x. 83 n.

[223] Review of the Acts of the Thirteenth Parliament, etc. (1775).

[224] Works, x. 57, 63.

[225] Works, x. 133-35.

[226] Ibid. x. 84.

[227] Ibid. x. 77.

[228] Works, x. 82.

[229] Works, x. 77-82. Blackstone took no notice of the work, except by some allusions in the
preface to his next edition. Bentham criticised Blackstone respectfully in the pamphlet upon
the Hard Labour Bill (1778). Blackstone sent a courteous but 'frigidly cautious' reply to the
author.--Works, i. 255.

[230] Works, x. 115-17, 186

[231] Ibid. x. 100.

[232] Ibid. x. 122.

[233] Ibid. x. 118; i. 253.

[234] Works, x. 97; i. 252.

[235] Ibid. x. 219, 265.

[236] Works, x. 118, 419, 558.

[237] Ibid. i. 253.

[238] Ibid. x. 116, 182.

[239] Ibid. x. 228-42.

[240] Ibid. x. 186.

[241] Works, v. 370.

[242] Souvenirs sur Mirabeau (preface).

[243] Works, x. 185.

[244] Works, x. 185. Colls (p. 41) tells the same story.

[245] Works ('Fragment, etc.'), i. 245, and Ibid. ii. 463 n.

[246] Ibid. i. 246, 250, 251.

[247] Ibid. i. 252.

[248] Ibid. x. 185.

[249] Bentham says (Works, i. 240) that he was a member of a club of which Johnson was the
despot. The only club possible seems to be the Essex Street Club, of which Daines Barrington
was a member. If so, it was in 1783, though Bentham seems to imply an earlier date.

[250] Works, x. 77.

[251] Ibid. x. 147.

[252] Works, x. 176.

[253] Reid's Works (Hamilton), p. 73.

[254] Works, x. 171.

[255] Works, x. 163-64. Cf. Ibid. x. 195, where Wilson is often 'tempted to think'--erroneously,
of course--that Paley must have known something of Bentham's work. Paley's chief source was
Abraham Tucker.

[256] See J. H. Burton in Works, i. 11.

[257] Given in Works, x. 201-12.

[258] See Lecky's Eighteenth Century, x. 210-97, for an account of these transactions.

[259] Bowring tells this gravely, and declares that George III. also wrote letters to the Gazette
de Leyde. George III. certainly contributed some letters to Arthur Young's Annals of Agriculture,
and is one of the suggested authors of Junius.

III. THE PANOPTICON

The crash of the French revolution was now to change the whole course of European politics,
and to bring philosophical jurists face to face with a long series of profoundly important
problems. Bentham's attitude during the early stages of the revolution and the first war period
is significant, and may help to elucidate some characteristics of the Utilitarian movement.
Revolutions are the work of passion: the product of a social and political condition in which
the masses are permeated with discontent, because the social organs have ceased to discharge
their functions. They are not ascribable to the purely intellectual movement alone, though
it is no doubt an essential factor. The revolution came in any case because the social order
was out of joint, not simply because Voltaire or Rousseau or Diderot had preached destructive
doctrines. The doctrines of the 'rights of man' are obvious enough to have presented themselves
to many minds at many periods. The doctrines became destructive because the old traditions
were shaken, and the traditions were shaken because the state of things to which they corresponded
had become intolerable. The French revolution meant (among other things) that in the mind of
the French peasant there had accumulated a vast deposit of bitter enmity against the noble
who had become a mere parasite upon the labouring population, retaining, as Arthur Young said,
privileges for himself, and leaving poverty to the lower classes. The peasant had not read
Rousseau; he had read nothing. But when his discontent began to affect the educated classes,
men who had read Rousseau found in his works the dialect most fitted to express the growing
indignation. Rousseau's genius had devised the appropriate formula; for Rousseau's sensibility
had made him prescient of the rising storm. What might be a mere commonplace for speculative
students suddenly became the warcry in a social upheaval. In England, as I have tried to show,
there was no such popular sentiment behind the political theories: and reformers were content
with measures which required no appeal to absolute rights and general principles. Bentham was
no Rousseau; and the last of men to raise a warcry. Passion and sentimentalism were to him
a nuisance. His theories were neither suggested nor modified by the revolution. He looked on
with curious calmness, as though the revolutionary disturbances were rather a transitory interruption
to the progress of reform than indicative of a general convulsion. His own position was isolated.
He had no strong reforming party behind him. The Whigs, his main friends, were powerless, discredited,
and themselves really afraid to support any vigorous policy. They had in the main to content
themselves with criticising the warlike policy which, for the time, represented the main current
of national sentiment. Bentham shared many of their sympathies. He hated the abstract 'rights
of man' theory as heartily as Burke. It was to him a 'hodge-podge' of fallacies. On the other
hand, he was absolutely indifferent to the apotheosis of the British Constitution constructed
by Burke's imagination. He cared nothing for history in general, or regarded it, from a Voltairean
point of view, as a record of the follies and crimes of mankind. He wished to deal with political,
and especially with legal, questions in a scientific spirit--but 'scientific' would mean not
pure mathematics but pure empiricism. He was quite as far from Paine's abstract methods as
from Burke's romantic methods. Both of them, according to him, were sophists: though one might
prefer logical and the other sentimental sophistries. Dumont, when he published (1802) his
versions of Bentham, insisted upon this point. Nothing, he says, was more opposed to the trenchant
dogmatism of the abstract theorists about 'rights of man' and 'equality' than Bentham's thoroughly
scientific procedure (Discours Préliminaire). Bentham's intellectual position in this respect
will require further consideration hereafter. All his prejudices and sympathies were those
of the middle class from which he sprang. He was no democrat: he had no particular objection
to the nobility, though he preferred Shelburne to the king's friends or to the Whig aristocracy.
The reforms which he advocated were such as might be adopted by any enlightened legislator,
not only by Shelburne but even by Blackstone. He had only, he thought, to convert a few members
of parliament to gain the acceptance for a rational criminal code. It had hardly even occurred
to him that there was anything wrong in the general political order, though he was beginning
to find out that it was not so modifiable as he could have wished by the new ideas which he
propounded.

Bentham's activity during the first revolutionary war corresponded to this position. The revolution,
whatever else it might do, obviously gave a chance to amateur legislators. There was any amount
of work to be done in the way of codifying and reforming legislative systems. The deviser of
Utopias had such an opening as had never occurred in the world's history. Lord Lansdowne, on
the 3rd January 1789, expresses his pleasure at hearing that Bentham intends to 'take up the
cause of the people in France.'[260] Bentham, as we have seen, was already known to some of
the French leaders, and he was now taking time by the forelock. He sent to the abbé Morellet
a part of his treatise on Political Tactics, hoping to have it finished by the time of the
meeting of the States General.[261] This treatise, civilly accepted by Morellet, and approved
with some qualifications by Bentham's counsellors, Romilly, Wilson, and Trail, was an elaborate
account of the organisation and procedure of a legislative assembly, founded chiefly on the
practice of the House of Commons. It was published in 1816 by Dumont in company with Anarchic
Fallacies, a vigorous exposure of the Declaration of Rights, which Bentham had judiciously
kept on his shelf. Had the French known of it, he remarks afterwards, they would have been
little disposed to welcome him.[262] An elaborate scheme for the organisation of the French
judiciary was suggested by a report to the National Assembly, and published in March 1790.
In 1791, Bentham offered to go to France himself in order to establish a prison on his new
scheme (to be mentioned directly), and become 'gratuitously the gaoler thereof.'[263] The Assembly
acknowledged his 'ardent love of humanity,' and ordered an extract from his scheme to be printed
for their instruction. The tactics actually adopted by the French revolutionists for managing
assemblies and their methods of executing justice form a queer commentary on the philosopher
who, like Voltaire's Mamres in the White Bull, continued to 'meditate profoundly' in placid
disregard of facts. He was in fact proposing that the lava boiling up in a volcanic eruption
should arrange itself entirely according to his architectural designs. But his proposal to
become a gaoler during the revolution reaches the pathetic by its amiable innocence. On 26th
August 1792, Bentham was one of the men upon whom the expiring Assembly, anxious to show its
desire of universal fraternity, conferred the title of citizen. With Bentham were joined Priestley,
Paine, Wilberforce, Clarkson, Washington, and others. The September massacres followed. On
18th October the honour was communicated to Bentham. He replied in a polite letter, pointing
out that he was a royalist in London for the same reason which would make him a republican
in France. He ended by a calm argument against the proscription of refugees.[264] The Convention,
if it read the letter, and had any sense of humour, must have been amused. The war and the
Reign of Terror followed. Bentham turned the occasion to account by writing a pamphlet (not
then published) exhorting the French to 'emancipate their colonies.' Colonies were an aimless
burthen, and to get rid of them would do more than conquest to relieve their finances. British
fleets and the insurrection of St. Domingo were emancipating by very different methods.

Bentham was, of course, disgusted by the divergence of his clients from the lines chalked out
by proper respect for law and order.

Meanwhile a variety of suggestions more or less important and connected with passing events
were seething in his fertile brain. He wrote one of his most stinging pamphlets, 'Truth versus
Ashhurst' in December 1792, directed against a judge who, in the panic suggested by the September
massacres, had eulogised the English laws. Bentham's aversion to Jacobin measures by no means
softened his antipathy to English superstitions; and his attack was so sharp that Romilly advised
and obtained its suppression for the time. Projects as to war-taxes suggested a couple of interesting
pamphlets written in 1793, and published in 1795. In connection with this, schemes suggested
themselves to him for improved systems of patents, for limited liability companies and other
plans.[266] His great work still occupied him at intervals. In 1793 he offers to Dundas to
employ himself in drafting Statutes, and remarks incidentally that he could legislate for Hindostan,
should legislation be wanted there, as easily as for his own parish.[267] In 1794, Dumont is
begging him to 'conquer his repugnance' to bestowing a few hints upon his interpreter.[268]
In 1796, Bentham writes long letters suggesting that he should be sent to France with Wilberforce,
in order to re-establish friendly relations.[269] In 1798 he is corresponding at great length
with Patrick Colquhoun upon plans for improving the Metropolitan police.[270] In 1801 he says[271]
that for two years and a half 'he has thought of scarce anything else' than a plan for interest-bearing
notes, which he carefully elaborated and discussed with Nicholas Vansittart and Dr. Beeke.
In September 1800, however, he had found time to occupy himself with a proposed frigidarium
or ice-house for the preservation of fish, fruits, and vegetables; and invited Dr. Roget, a
nephew of Romilly, to come to his house and carry out the necessary experiments.[272] In January
1802 he writes to Dumont[273] proposing to send him a trifling specimen of the Panopticon,
a set of hollow fire-irons invented by his brother, which may attract the attention of Buonaparte
and Talleyrand. He proceeds to expound the merits of Samuel's invention for making wheels by
machinery. Dumont replies, that fire-irons are 'superfluities'--(fire-arms might have been
more to Buonaparte's taste)--and that the Panopticon itself was coldly received.

This Panopticon was to be Bentham's masterpiece. It occupied his chief attention from his return
to England until the peace of Amiens. His brother had returned from Russia in 1791. Their father
died 28th March 1792, dividing his property equally between his sons. Jeremy's share consisted
of the estate at Queen's Square Place, Westminster, and of landed property producing £500 or
£600 a year. The father, spite of the distance between them, had treated his son with substantial
kindness, and had learned to take a pride in achievements very unlike those which he had at
first desired.[274] Bentham's position, however, was improved by the father's death. The Westminster
estate included the house in which he lived for the rest of his life. There was a garden in
which he took great delight, though London smoke gradually destroyed the plants: and in the
garden was the small house where Milton had once lived.[275] Here, with the co-operation of
his brother and his increased income, he had all the means necessary for launching his grand
scheme.

The Panopticon, as defined by its inventor to Brissot, was a 'mill for grinding rogues honest,
and idle men industrious.'[276] It was suggested by a plan designed by his brother in Russia
for a large house to be occupied by workmen, and to be so arranged that they could be under
constant inspection. Bentham was working on the old lines of philanthropic reform. He had long
been interested in the schemes of prison reform, to which Howard's labours had given the impetus.
Blackstone, with the help of William Eden, afterwards Lord Auckland, had prepared the 'Hard
Labour Bill,' which Bentham had carefully criticised in 1778. The measure was passed in 1779,
and provided for the management of convicts, who were becoming troublesome, as transportation
to America had ceased to be possible. Howard, whose relation to Bentham I have already noticed,
was appointed as one of the commissioners to carry out the provisions of the Act. The commissioners
disagreed; Howard resigned; and though at last an architect (William Blackburn) was appointed
who possessed Howard's confidence, and who constructed various prisons in the country, the
scheme was allowed to drop. Bentham now hoped to solve the problem with his Panopticon. He
printed an account of it in 1791. He wrote to his old antagonist, George III., describing it,
together with another invention of Samuel's for enabling armies to cross rivers, which might
be more to his Majesty's taste.[277] In March 1792 he made a proposal to the government offering
to undertake the charge of a thousand convicts upon the Panopticon system.[278] After delays
suspicious in the eyes of Bentham, but hardly surprising at such a period, an act of parliament
was obtained in 1794 to adopt his schemes. Bentham had already been making preparations. He
says[279] (14th September 1794) that he has already spent £6000, and is spending at the rate
of £2000 a year, while his income was under £600 a year. He obtained, however, £2000 from the
government. He had made models and architectural plans, in which he was helped by Reveley,
already known to him at Constantinople. This sum, it appears, was required in order to keep
together the men whom he employed. The nature of their employment is remarkable.[280] Samuel,
a man of singular mechanical skill, which was of great use to the navy during the war, had
devised machinery for work in wood and metal. Bentham had joined his brother, and they were
looking out for a steam-engine. It had now occurred to them to employ convicts instead of steam,
and thus to combine philanthropy with business. Difficulties of the usual kind arose as to
the procurement of a suitable site. The site secured under the provisions of the 'Hard Labour
Bill' was for some reason rejected; and Bentham was almost in despair. It was not until 1799
that he at last acquired for £12,000 an estate at Millbank, which seemed to be suitable. Meanwhile
Bentham had found another application for his principle. The growth of pauperism was alarming
statesmen. Whitbread proposed in February 1796 to fix a minimum rate of wages. The wisest thing
that government could do, he said, was to 'offer a liberal premium for the encouragement of
large families.' Pitt proceeded to prepare the abortive Poor-law Bill,[281] upon which Bentham
(in February 1797) sent in some very shrewd criticisms. They were not published, but are said
to have 'powerfully contributed to the abandonment of the measure.'[282] They show Bentham's
power of incisive criticism, though they scarcely deal with the general principle. In the following
autumn Bentham contributed to Arthur Young's Annals of Agriculture upon the same topic. It
had struck him that an application of his Panopticon would give the required panacea. He worked
out details with his usual zeal, and the scheme attracted notice among the philanthropists
of the time. It was to be a 'succedaneum' to Pitt's proposal. Meanwhile the finance committee,
appointed in 1797, heard evidence from Bentham's friend, Patrick Colquhoun, upon the Panopticon,
and a report recommending it was proposed by R. Pole Carew, a friend of Samuel Bentham. Although
this report was suppressed, the scheme apparently received an impetus. The Millbank estate
was bought in consequence of these proceedings, and a sum of only £1000 was wanted to buy out
the tenant of one piece of land. Bentham was constantly in attendance at a public office, expecting
a final warrant for the money. It never came, and, as Bentham believed, the delay was due to
the malice of George III. Had any other king been on the throne, Panopticon in both 'the prisoner
branch and the pauper branch' would have been set at work.[283] Such are the consequences of
newspaper controversies with monarchs! After this, in any case, the poor Panopticon, as the
old lawyers said, 'languishing did live,' and at last 'languishing did die.' Poor Bentham seems
to have struggled vainly for a time. He appealed to Pitt's friend, Wilberforce; he appealed
to his step-brother Abbot; he wrote to members of parliament, but all was in vain.

