"A thousand pounds, for the labours of a whole life! And what assurance shall I have of that?
I don't suppose he has ever dreamed of putting it into his will. And if he has, what will a
thousand pounds do for me? You can go to Slocombe Abbey. But the rectory, which was as good
as promised, will be closed against me." The Marchioness knew that this was a falsehood, but
did not dare to tell him so. The living had been talked about between them till it was assumed
that he had a right to it. "If the young man were out of the way," he continued, "there would
be some chance for me."

"I cannot put him out of the way," said the Marchioness.

"And some chance for Lord Frederic and his brothers."

"You need not tell me of that, Mr. Greenwood."

"But one has to look the truth in the face. It is for your sake that I have been anxious,--rather
than my own. You must own that." She would not own anything of the kind. "I suppose there was
no doubt about the first marriage?"

"None at all," said the Marchioness, terrified.

"Though it was thought very odd at the time. It ought to be looked to, I think. No stone ought
to be left unturned."

"There is nothing to be hoped for in that direction, Mr. Greenwood."

"It ought to be looked to;--that's all. Only think what it will be if he marries, and has a
son before anything is--is settled."

To this Lady Kingsbury made no answer; and after a pause Mr. Greenwood turned to his own grievances.
"I shall make bold," he said, "to see the Marquis once again before Lord Hampstead comes down.
He cannot but acknowledge that I have a great right to be anxious. I do not suppose that any
promise would be sacred in his son's eyes, but I must do the best I can." To this her ladyship
would make no answer, and they parted, not in the best humour with each other.

That was on the Monday. On the Tuesday Mr. Greenwood, having asked to be allowed an interview,
crept slowly into the sick man's room. "I hope your lordship find yourself better this morning?"
The sick man turned in his bed, and only made some feeble grunt in reply. "I hear that Lord
Hampstead is coming down to-morrow, my lord."

"Why should he not come?" There must have been something in the tone of Mr. Greenwood's voice
which had grated against the sick man's ears, or he would not have answered so sulkily.

"Oh, no, my lord. I did not mean to say that there was any reason why his lordship should not
come. Perhaps it might have been better had he come earlier."

"It wouldn't have been at all better."

"I only just meant to make the remark, my lord; there was nothing in it."

"Nothing at all," said the sick man. "Was there anything else you wished to say, Mr. Greenwood?"

The nurse all this time was sitting in the room, which the chaplain felt to be uncomfortable.
"Could we be alone for a few minutes, my lord?" he asked.

"I don't think we could," said the sick man.

"There are a few points which are of so much importance to me, Lord Kingsbury."

"I ain't well enough to talk business, and I won't do it. Mr. Roberts will be here to-morrow,
and you can see him."

Mr. Roberts was a man of business, or agent to the property, who lived at Shrewsbury, and whom
Mr. Greenwood especially disliked. Mr. Greenwood being a clergyman was, of course, supposed
to be a gentleman, and regarded Mr. Roberts as being much beneath himself. It was not customary
for Mr. Roberts to dine at the house, and he was therefore regarded by the chaplain as being
hardly more than an upper servant. It was therefore very grievous to him to be told that he
must discuss his own private affairs and make his renewed request as to the living through
Mr. Roberts. It was evidently intended that he should have no opportunity of discussing his
private affairs. Whatever the Marquis might offer him he must take; and that, as far as he
could see, without any power of redress on his side. If Mr. Roberts were to offer him a thousand
pounds, he could only accept the cheque and depart with it from Trafford Park, shaking off
from his feet the dust which such ingratitude would forbid him to carry with him.

He was in the habit of walking daily for an hour before sunset, moving very slowly up and down
the driest of the roads near the house, generally with his hands clasped behind his back, believing
that in doing so he was consulting his health, and maintaining that bodily vigour which might
be necessary to him for the performance of the parochial duties at Appleslocombe. Now when
he had left the bed-room of the Marquis he went out of the front door, and proceeded on his
walk at a somewhat quicker pace than usual. He was full of wrath, and his passion gave some
alacrity to his movements. He was of course incensed against the Marquis; but his anger burnt
hottest against Lord Hampstead. In this he was altogether unreasonable, for Lord Hampstead
had said nothing and done nothing that could injure his position. Lord Hampstead disliked him
and, perhaps, despised him, but had been anxious that the Marquis should be liberal in the
mode of severing a connection which had lasted so long. But to Mr. Greenwood himself it was
manifest that all his troubles came from the iniquities of his patron's two elder children;
and he remembered at every moment that Lord Hampstead had insulted him when they were both
together. He was certainly not a man to forgive an enemy, or to lose any opportunity for revenge
which might come in his way.

Certainly it would be good if the young man could be got to break his neck out hunting;--or
good if the yacht could be made to founder, or go to pieces on a rock, or come to any other
fatal maritime misfortune. But these were accidents which he personally could have no power
to produce. Such wishing was infantine, and fit only for a weak woman, such as the Marchioness.
If anything were to be done it must be done by some great endeavour; and the endeavour must
come from himself. Then he reflected how far the Marchioness would certainly be in his power,
if both the Marquis and his eldest son were dead. He did believe that he had obtained great
influence over her. That she should rebel against him was of course on the cards. But he was
aware that within the last month, since the date, indeed, at which the Marquis had threatened
to turn him out of the house, he had made considerable progress in imposing himself upon her
as a master. He gave himself in this respect much more credit than was in truth due to him.
Lady Kingsbury, though she had learnt to fear him, had not so subjected herself to his influence
as not to be able to throw him off should a time come at which it might be essential to her
comfort to do so. But he had misread the symptoms, and had misread also the fretfulness of
her impatience. He now assured himself that if anything could be done he might rely entirely
on her support. After all that she had said to him, it would be impossible that she should
throw him over. Thinking of all this, and thinking also how expedient it was that something
should be done, he returned to the house when he had taken the exact amount of exercise which
he supposed necessary for his health.

CHAPTER XII.

LIKE THE POOR CAT I' THE ADAGE.

Wishing will do nothing. If a man has sufficient cause for action he should act. "Letting I
dare not wait upon I would, Like the poor cat i' the adage," never can produce results. Cherries
will not fall into your mouth without picking. "If it were done, when 'tis done then 'twere
well it were done quickly." If grapes hang too high what is the use of thinking of them? Nevertheless,--"Where
there's a will there's a way." But certainly no way will be found amidst difficulties, unless
a man set himself to work seriously to look for it. With such self-given admonitions, counsels,
and tags of old quotations as these, Mr. Greenwood went to work with himself on Monday night,
and came to a conclusion that if anything were to be done it must be done at once.

Then came the question--what was the thing to be done, and what at once meant? When a thing
has to be done which requires a special summoning of resolution, it is too often something
which ought not to be done. To virtuous deeds, if they recommend themselves to us at all, we
can generally make up our minds more easily. It was pleasanter to Mr. Greenwood to think of
the thing as something in the future, as something which might possibly get itself done for
him by accident, than as an act the doing of which must fall into his own hands. Then came
the "cat i' the adage," and the "when 'tis done then 'twere well," and the rest of it. Thursday
morning, between four and five o' clock, when it would be pitch dark, with neither star nor
moon in the heavens, when Lord Hampstead would certainly be alone in a certain spot, unattended
and easily assailable;--would Thursday morning be the fittest time for any such deed as that
which he had now in truth began to contemplate?

When the thing presented itself to him in this new form, he recoiled from it. It cannot be
said that Mr. Greenwood was a man of any strong religious feelings. He had been ordained early
in life to a curacy, having probably followed, in choosing his profession, the bent given to
him by his family connections, and had thus from circumstances fallen into the household of
his present patron's uncle. From that to this he had never performed a service in a church,
and his domestic services as chaplain had very soon become nothing.

The old Lord Kingsbury had died very soon afterwards, and Mr. Greenwood's services had been
continued rather as private secretary and librarian than as domestic chaplain. He had been
crafty, willing, and, though anxious, he had been able to conceal his anxiety in that respect,
and ready to obey when he found it necessary. In this manner he had come to his present condition
of life, and had but few of the manners or feelings of a clergyman about him. He was quite
willing to take a living if it should come in his way,--but to take it with a purpose that
the duties should be chiefly performed by a curate. He was not a religious man; but when he
came to look the matter in the face, not on that account could he regard himself as a possible
murderer without terrible doubts.

As he thought of it his first and prevailing fear did not come from the ignominious punishment
which is attached to, and which generally attends, the crime. He has been described as a man
flabby in appearance, as one who seemed to tremble in his shoes when called upon for any special
words, as one who might be supposed to be devoid of strong physical daring. But the true character
of the man was opposed to his outward bearing. Courage is a virtue of too high a nature to
be included among his gifts; but he had that command of his own nerves, that free action of
blood round his heart, that personal audacity coming from self-confidence, which is often taken
to represent courage. Given the fact that he wanted an enemy out of the way, he could go to
work to prepare to put him out of the way without exaggerated dread of the consequences as
far as this world is concerned. He trusted much in himself, and thought it possible that he
could so look through all the concomitant incidents of such an act as that he contemplated
without allowing one to escape him which might lead to detection. He could so look at the matter,
he thought, as to be sure whether this or the other plot might or might not be safe. It might
be that no safe plot were possible, and that the attempt must therefore be abandoned. These,
at any rate, were not the dangers which made him creep about in dismay at his own intentions.

There were other dangers of which he could not shake off the dread. Whether he had any clear
hope as to eternal bliss in another life, it may be doubted. He probably drove from his mind
thoughts on the subject, not caring to investigate his own belief. It is the practice of many
to have their minds utterly callous in that respect. To suppose that such men think this or
think the other as to future rewards and punishments is to give them credit for a condition
of mind to which they have never risen. Such a one was probably Mr. Greenwood; but nevertheless
he feared something when this idea respecting Lord Hampstead presented itself to him. It was
as is some boggy-bo to a child, some half-belief in a spectre to a nervous woman, some dread
of undefined evil to an imaginative but melancholy man. He did not think that by meditating
such a deed, by hardening his heart to the necessary resolution, by steeling himself up to
its perpetration, he would bring himself into a condition unfitted for a life of bliss. His
thoughts did not take any such direction. But though there might be no punishment in this world,--even
though there were to be no other world in which punishment could come,--still something of
evil would surely fall upon him. The convictions of the world since the days of Cain have all
gone in that direction. It was thus that he allowed himself to be cowed, and to be made to
declare to himself again and again that the project must be abandoned.

But "the cat i' the adage" succeeded so far on the Tuesday in getting the better of his scruples,
that he absolutely did form a plot. He did not as yet quite see his way to that security which
would be indispensable;--but he did form a plot. Then came the bitter reflection that what
he would do would be done for the benefit of others rather than his own. What would Lord Frederic
know of his benefactor when he should come to the throne--as in such case he would do--as Marquis
of Kingsbury? Lord Frederic would give him no thanks, even were he to know it,--which of course
could never be the case. And why had not that woman assisted him,--she who had instigated him
to the doing of the deed? "For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind," he said to himself over
and over again, not, however, in truth thinking of the deed with any of the true remorse to
which Macbeth was a prey. The "filing of his mind" only occurred to him because the words were
otherwise apt. Would she even be grateful when she should tell herself,--as she surely would
do,--that the deed had been done by the partner of her confidences?

When he thought of the reward which was to come to him in payment of the intended deed something
like a feeling of true conscience did arise within him. Might it not be the case that even
he, callous as he was to most things, should find himself unable to go down to Appleslocombe
and read himself in, as the phrase goes, as rector and pastor of the parish? He thought of
this as he lay in his bed, and acknowledged to himself that his own audacity would probably
be insufficient to carry him through such a struggle. But still on the morning when he rose
he had not altogether rejected the idea. The young man had scorned him and had insulted him,
and was hateful to him. But still why should he be the Macbeth, seeing that the Lady Macbeth
of the occasion was untrue to him? In all this he was unaware how very little his Lady Macbeth
had really meant when she had allowed herself in his presence to express wishes as to her stepson's
death.

He thought he saw his plan. The weapon was there ready to his hand;--a weapon which he had
not bought, which could not be traced to him, which would certainly be fatal if used with the
assurance of which he was confident. And there would be ample time for retreat. But still as
he arranged it all in his mind he regarded it all not as a thing fixed, but as a thing which
was barely possible. It was thus that it might be done, had the Lady Macbeth of the occasion
really shown herself competent to such a task. Why should he trouble himself on such a matter?
Why should he file his mind for Banquo's issue? Yet he looked at the pistol and at the window
as he prepared to go up to her ladyship's room before lunch on the Wednesday morning. It certainly
could be done, he said to himself, telling himself at the same time that all that had been
passing in his own mind was no more than a vague speculation. A man is apt to speculate on
things which have no reality to him, till they become real.

He had assumed the practice of going to her ladyship's sitting-room up-stairs without a special
summons, latterly to her ladyship's great disgust. When her quarrel had first become strong
with Lady Frances she had no doubt received comfort from his support. But now she had become
weary of him, and had sometimes been almost dismayed by the words he spoke to her. At half-past
twelve punctually she went down to her husband's room, and it was now customary with the chaplain
to visit her before she did so. She had more than once almost resolved to tell him that she
preferred to be left alone during the morning. But she had not as yet assumed the courage to
do this. She was aware that words had fallen from her in her anger which it was possible he
might use against her, were she to subject herself to his displeasure. "Lord Hampstead will
be here at half-past four--what you may call the middle of the night--to-morrow morning, Lady
Kingsbury," said he, repeating an assertion which he had already made to her two or three times.
As he did so he stood in the middle of the room, looking down upon her with a gaze under which
she had often suffered, but which she did not in the least understand.

"Of course I know he's coming."

"Don't you think it a very improper time, with a sick man in the house?"

"He won't disturb his father."

"I don't know. There will be the opening and the shutting of the door, and the servant will
be going about the passages, and there will be the bringing in of the luggage."

"He won't have any luggage." Mr. Greenwood had been aware of this; but it might be well that
he should affect ignorance.

"It is like everything else that he does," he said, being anxious to induce the stepmother
to speak ill of her stepson. But the bent of her mind had been turned. She was not conscious
of the cause which had produced the change, but she was determined to speak no further evil
of her stepchildren before Mr. Greenwood. "I suppose there is nothing to be done?" said Mr.
Greenwood.

"What should there be to be done? If you do remain here I wish you would sit down, Mr. Greenwood.
You oppress me by standing up in that way in the middle of the room."

"I do not wonder that you should be oppressed," he said, seating himself, as was his wont,
on the edge of a chair. "I am oppressed, I know. No one ever says a word to comfort me. What
am I to do if anything should happen?"

"Mr. Greenwood, what is the use of all this?"

"What would you think, Lady Kingsbury, if you had to live all the rest of your life on an income
arising from a thousand pounds?"

"It isn't my fault. What's the good of your coming to me with all that? I have had nothing
to do with the arrangement which Lord Kingsbury has made with you. You know very well that
I do not dare even to mention your name to him, lest he should order that you should be turned
out of the house."

"Turned out of the house!" he said, jumping off his chair on to his legs with an alacrity which
was quite unusual to him. "Turned out of the house?--as if I were a dog! No man alive would
stand such language."

"You know very well that I've always stood your friend," said the Marchioness, alarmed by the
man's impetuosity.

"And you tell me that I'm to be turned out of the house."

"I only say that it would be better not to mention your name to him. I must go now, because
he will be waiting for me."

"He doesn't care a straw for you; not a straw."

"Mr. Greenwood!"

"He cares only for his son and daughter;--for the son and daughter of his first wife; for those
two ignoble young persons who, as you have said so often, are altogether unworthy of their name."

"Mr. Greenwood, I cannot admit this."

"Have you not said it over and over again? Have you not declared how good a thing it would
be that Lord Hampstead should die? You cannot go back from all that, Lady Kingsbury."

"I must go now, Mr. Greenwood," she said, shuffling out of the room. He had altogether frightened
her, and, as she went down-stairs, she determined that at whatever cost she must save herself
from further private conversation with the chaplain.

Mr. Greenwood, when he was thus left alone, did not at once leave the room. He had reseated
himself, and there he remained still gazing as though there had been some one for him to gaze
at, and still seated on the edge of his chair as though there were some one to see the affected
humility of his position. But in truth the gazing and the manner of sitting had become so customary
to him that they were assumed without thought. His mind was now full of the injury done to
him by the Marchioness. She had made him her confidant; she had poured her secret thoughts
into his ears; she had done her best to inspire him with her hatred and her desires;--and now,
when she had almost taught him to be the minister of her wishes, she turned upon him, and upbraided
him and deserted him! Of course when he had sympathized with her as to her ill-used darlings
he had expected her to sympathize with him as to the hardships inflicted upon him. But she
cared nothing for his hardships, and was anxious to repudiate the memory of all the hard words
which she had spoken as to her husband's children. It should not be so! She should not escape
from him in this manner! When confidences have been made, the persons making them must abide
the consequences. When a partnership has been formed, neither partner has a right to retreat
at once, leaving the burden of all debts upon the other. Had not all these thoughts, and plottings,
which had been so heavy on his mind since that telegram had come, which had been so heavy on
his soul, been her doing? Had not the idea come from her? Had there not been an unspoken understanding
between them that in consequence of certain mutual troubles and mutual aspirations there should
be a plan of action arranged between them? Now she was deserting him! Well;--he thought that
he could so contrive things that she should not do so with impunity. Having considered all
this he got up from his chair and slowly walked down to his own room.

He lunched by himself, and then sat himself down with a novel, as was his wont at that hour
of the day. There could be no man more punctual in all his daily avocations than Mr. Greenwood.
After lunch there always came the novel; but there was seldom much of it read. He would generally
go to sleep, and would remain so, enjoying perfect tranquillity for the best part of an hour.
Then he would go out for his constitutional walk, after which he would again take up the novel
till the time came for her ladyship's tea. On this occasion he did not read at all, but neither
did he at once sleep. There had been that on his mind which, even though it had not been perfected,
banished sleep from him for some minutes. There was no need of any further conversation as
to safety or danger. The deed, whether it would or could not have been done in the manner he
had premeditated, certainly would not be done now. Certainly not now would he file his mind
for Banquo's issue. But after half-an-hour of silent meditation he did sleep.

When he arose and went out for a walk he felt that his heart was light within him. He had done
nothing by which he had compromised himself. He had bound himself to no deed. As he walked
up and down the road he assured himself that he had never really thought of doing it. He had
only speculated as to the probability,--which is so common for men to do as to performances
which they had no thought of attempting. There was a great burden gone from him. Had he desired
to get rid of Lord Hampstead, it was in that way that he would have done it;--and he would
so have done it that he would never have been suspected of the deed. He had never intended
more than that. As he returned to the house he assured himself that he had never intended anything
more. And yet there was a great burden gone from him.

At five o'clock a message was brought to him that her ladyship, finding herself to be rather
unwell, begged to be excused from asking him up to tea. The message was brought by the butler
himself, with a suggestion that he should have tea in his own room. "I think I will, Harris,"
he said, "just take a cup. By-the-bye, Harris, have you seen my lord to-day?" Harris declared
that he had seen his lordship, in a tone of voice which implied that he at any rate had not
been banished from my lord's presence. "And how do you find him?" Harris thought that the Marquis
was a little more like himself to-day than he had been for the last three days. "That's right.
I am very glad to hear that. Lord Hampstead's coming to-morrow will be a great comfort to him."

"Yes, indeed," said Harris, who was quite on Lord Hampstead's side in the family quarrels.
He had not been pleased with the idea of the Roden marriage, which certainly was unfortunate
for the daughter of a Marquis; but he was by no means inclined to take part against the heir
to the family honours.

"I wish he were coming at a little more reasonable hour in the day," said Mr. Greenwood with
a smile. But Harris thought that the time of the day would do very well. It was the kind of
thing which his lordship very often did, and Harris did not see any harm in it. This Harris
said with his hand on the lock of the door, showing that he was not anxious for a prolonged
conversation with the chaplain.

CHAPTER XIII.

LADY FRANCES SEES HER LOVER.

On the Monday in that week,--Monday, the 5th of January, on which day Hampstead had been hunting
and meditating the attack which he subsequently made on Zachary Fay, in King's Court,--Mrs.
Vincent had paid a somewhat unusually long visit in Paradise Row. As the visit was always made
on Monday, neither had Clara Demijohn or Mrs. Duffer been very much surprised; but still it
had been observed that the brougham had been left at the "Duchess of Edinburgh" for an hour
beyond the usual time, and a few remarks were made. "She is so punctual about her time generally,"
Clara had said. But Mrs. Duffer remarked that as she had exceeded the hour usually devoted
to her friend's company she had probably found it quite as well to stay another. "They don't
make half-hours in any of those yards, you know," said Mrs. Duffer. And so the matter had been
allowed to pass as having been sufficiently explained.

But there had in truth been more than that in Mrs. Vincent's prolonged visit to her cousin.
There had been much to be discussed, and the discussion led to a proposition made that evening
by Mrs. Roden to her son by which the latter was much surprised. She was desirous of starting
almost immediately for Italy, and was anxious that he should accompany her. If it were to be
so he was quite alive to the expediency of going with her. "But what is it, mother?" he asked,
when she had requested his attendance without giving the cause which rendered the journey necessary.
Then she paused as though considering whether she would comply with his request, and tell him
that whole secret of his life which she had hitherto concealed from him. "Of course, I will
not press you," he said, "if you think that you cannot trust me."

"Oh, George, that is unkind."

"What else am I to say? Is it possible that I should start suddenly upon such a journey, or
that I should see you doing so, without asking the reason why? Or can I suppose if you do not
tell me, but that there is some reason why you should not trust me?"

"You know I trust you. No mother ever trusted a son more implicitly. You ought to know that.
It is not a matter of trusting. There may be secrets to which a person shall be so pledged
that she cannot tell them to her dearest friend. If I had made a promise would you not have
me keep it?"

"Promises such as that should not be exacted, and should not be made."

"But if they have been exacted and have been made? Do as I ask you now, and it is probable
that everything will be clear to you before we return, or at any rate as clear to you as it
is to me." After this, with a certain spirit of reticence which was peculiar with him, he made
up his mind to do as his mother would have him without asking further questions. He set himself
to work immediately to make the necessary arrangements for his journey with as much apparent
satisfaction as though it were to be done on his own behalf. It was decided that they would
start on the next Friday, travel through France and by the tunnel of the Mont Cenis to Turin,
and thence on to Milan. Of what further there was to befall them he knew nothing at this period.

It was necessary in the first place that he should get leave of absence from Sir Boreas, as
to which he professed himself to be in much doubt, because he had already enjoyed the usual
leave of absence allowed by the rules of the office. But on this matter he found Æolus to be
very complaisant. "What, Italy?" said Sir Boreas. "Very nice when you get there, I should say,
but a bad time of year for travelling. Sudden business, eh?--To go with your mother! It is
bad for a lady to go alone. How long? You don't know? Well! come back as soon as you can; that's
all. You couldn't take Crocker with you, could you?" For at this time Crocker had already got
into further trouble in regard to imperfections of handwriting. He had been promised absolution
as to some complaint made against him on condition that he could read a page of his own manuscript.
But he had altogether failed in the attempt. Roden didn't think that he could carry Crocker
to Italy, but arranged his own affair without that impediment.

But there was another matter which must be arranged also. It was now six weeks since he had
walked with Lord Hampstead half-way back from Holloway to Hendon, and had been desired by his
friend not to visit Lady Frances while she was staying at Hendon Hall. The reader may remember
that he had absolutely refused to make any promise, and that there had consequently been some
sharp words spoken between the two friends. There might, he had then said, arise an occasion
on which he should find it impossible not to endeavour to see the girl he loved. But hitherto,
though he had refused to submit himself to the demand made upon him, he had complied with its
spirit. At this moment, as it seemed to him, a period had come in which it was essential to
him that he should visit her. There had been no correspondence between them since those Königsgraaf
days in consequence of the resolutions which she herself had made. Now, as he often told himself,
they were as completely separated as though each had determined never again to communicate
with the other. Months had gone by since a word had passed between them. He was a man, patient,
retentive, and by nature capable of enduring such a trouble without loud complaint; but he
did remember from day to day how near they were to each other, and he did not fail to remind
himself that he could hardly expect to find constancy in her unless he took some means of proving
to her that he was constant himself. Thinking of all this, he determined that he would do his
best to see her before he started for Italy. Should he fail to be received at Hendon Hall then
he would write. But he would go to the house and make his attempt.

On Thursday morning, the day on which Hampstead arrived at Trafford Park, he went down from
London, and knocking at the door asked at once for Lady Frances. Lady Frances was at home and
alone;--alone altogether, having no companion with her in the house during her brother's absence.
The servant who opened the door, the same who had admitted poor Crocker and had understood
how much his young mistress had been dismayed when the Post Office clerk had been announced,
was unwilling at once to show this other Post Office clerk into the house, although he probably
understood well the difference between the two comers. "I'll go and see," he said, leaving
George Roden to sit or stand in the hall as he liked best. Then the man, with a sagacity which
certainly did him credit, made a roundabout journey through the house, so that the lover stationed
in the hall might not know that his mistress was to be reached merely by the opening of a single
door. "A gentleman in the hall?" said Lady Frances.

"Mr. Roden, my lady," said the man.

"Show him in," said Lady Frances, allowing herself just a moment for consideration,--a moment
so short that she trusted that no hesitation had been visible. And yet she had doubted much.
She had been very clear in explaining to her brother that she had made no promise. She had
never pledged herself to any one that she would deny herself to her lover should he come to
see her. She would not admit to herself that even her brother, even her father, had a right
to demand from her such a pledge. But she knew what were her brother's wishes on this matter,
and what were the reasons for them. She knew also how much she owed to him. But she too had
suffered from that long silence. She had considered that a lover whom she never saw, and from
whom she never heard, was almost as bad as no lover at all. She had beaten her feathers against
her cage, as she thought of this cruel separation. She had told herself of the short distance
which separated Hendon from Holloway. She perhaps had reflected that had the man been as true
to her as was she to him, he would not have allowed himself to be deterred by the injunctions
either of father or brother. Now, at any rate, when her lover was at the door, she could not
turn him away. It had all to be thought of, but it was thought of so quickly that the order
for her lover's admittance was given almost without a pause which could have been felt. Then,
in half a minute, her lover was in the room with her.

Need the chronicler of such scenes declare that they were in each other's arms before a word
was spoken between them? The first word that was spoken came from her. "Oh, George, how long
it has been!"

"It has been long to me."

"But at last you have come?"

"Did you expect me sooner? Had you not agreed with Hampstead and your father that I was not
to come?"

"Never mind. You are here now. Poor papa, you know, is very ill. Perhaps I may have to go down
there. John is there now."

"Is he so ill as that?"

"John went last night. We do not quite know how ill he is. He does not write, and we doubt
whether we get at the truth. I was very nearly going with him; and then, sir, you would not
have seen me--at all."

"Another month, another six months, another year, would have made no difference in my assurance
of your truth to me."

"That is a very pretty speech for you to make."

"Nor I think in yours for me."

"I am bound, of course, to be just as pretty as you are. But why have you come now? You shouldn't
have come when John had left me all alone."

"I did not know that you were here alone."

"Or you would not have come, perhaps? But you should not have come. Why did you not ask before
you came?"

"Because I should have been refused. It would have been refused; would it not?"

"Certainly it would."

"But as I wish to see you specially--"

"Why specially? I have wanted to see you always. Every day has been a special want. It should
have been so with you also had you been as true as I am. There should have been no special times."

"But I am going--"

"Going! Where are you going? Not for always! You are leaving Holloway, you mean, or the Post
Office." Then he explained to her that as far as he knew the journey would not be for long.
He was not leaving his office, but had permission to absent himself for a time, so that he
might travel with his mother as far as Milan. "Nay," said he, laughing, "why I am to do so
I do not in the least know. My mother has some great Italian mystery of which she has never
yet revealed to me any of the circumstances. All I know is that I was born in Italy."

"You an Italian?"

"I did not say that. There is an old saying that you need not be a horse because you were born
in a stable. Nor do I quite know that I was born in Italy, though I feel sure of it. Of my
father I have never known anything,--except that he was certainly a bad husband to my mother.
There are circumstances which do make me almost sure that I was born in Italy; but as my mother
has been unwilling to talk to me of my earliest days, I have never chosen to ask her. Now I
shall perhaps know it all."

Of what else passed between them the reader need learn no details. To her the day was one of
exceeding joy. A lover in China, or waging wars in Zululand or elsewhere among the distant
regions, is a misfortune. A lover ought to be at hand, ready at the moment, to be kissed or
scolded, to wait upon you, or, so much sweeter still, to be waited upon, just as the occasion
may serve. But the lover in China is better than one in the next street or the next parish,--or
only a few miles off by railway,--whom you may not see. The heart recognizes the necessity
occasioned by distance with a sweet softness of tender regrets, but is hardened by mutiny,
or crushed by despair in reference to stern parents or unsuitable pecuniary circumstances.
Lady Frances had been enduring the sternness of parents, and had been unhappy. Now there had
come a break. She had seen what he was like, and had heard his voice, and been reassured by
his vows, and had enjoyed the longed-for opportunity of repeating her own. "Nothing, nothing,
nothing can change me!" How was he to be sure of that while she had no opportunity of telling
him that it was so? "No time;--nothing that papa can say, nothing that John can do, will have
any effect. As to Lady Kingsbury, of course you know that she has thrown me off altogether."
It was nothing to him, he said, who might have thrown her off. Having her promise, he could
bide his time. Not but that he was impatient; but that he knew that when so much was to be
given to him at last, it behoved him to endure all things rather than to be faint of heart.
And so they parted.

