You may expect what you please of new ministries, and revolutions, and establishments; we are
a grave people, and don't go so rashly to work-at least when we have demolished  any thing
rashly, we take due time before we repair it.  At a distance you may be impatient.  We, the
most concerned, wait very tranquilly to see the event of chaos.  It was given out that nothing
would be settled till the Inquiries were at an  end. The world very obediently stayed for the
time appointed.   The Inquiries are at an end, yet nothing is in more forwardness.  Foreign
nations may imagine (but they must be at a great distance!) that we are so wise and upright
a people, that every man performs his part, and thence every thing goes  on in its proper order
without any government--but I fear, our  case is like what astronomers tell us, that if a star
was to  be annihilated, it would still shine for two months.  The  Inquiries have been a most
important and dull farce, and very  fatiguing; we sat six days till past midnight.  If you
have  received my last letter, you have already had a description of  what passed just as I
foresaw.  Mr. Pitt broke out a little  the second day, and threatened to secede, and tell the
world  the iniquity of the majority; but recollecting that the majority might be as useful
as the world, he recomposed himself, professed meaning no personalities, swallowed all candour
as fast as it was proposed to him, swallowed camels  and haggled about gnats, and in a manner
let the friends of  the old ministry state and vote what resolutions they pleased.   They were
not modest, but stated away; yet on the last day of  the committee, on their moving that no
greater force could  have been sent to the Mediterranean than was under Byng the  triumphant
majority shrank to one of seventy-eight, many absenting themselves, and many of the independent
sort voting with the minority.  This alarmed so much, that the predetermined vote of acquittal
or approbation was forced to  be dropped, and to their great astonishment the late cabinet
is not thanked parliamentarily for having lost Minorca.  You  may judge what Mr. Pitt might
have done, if he had pleased;  when, though he starved his own cause, so slender an advantage
was obtained against him.  I retired before the vote I have  mentioned; as Mr. Fox was complicated
in it, I would not appear against him, and I could not range myself with a squadron who I think
must be the jest of Europe and posterity. It now remains to settle some ministry: Mr. Pitt's
friends are earnest, and some of them trafficking for an union with Newcastle.  He himself,
I believe, maintains his dignity, and will be sued to, not sue.  The Duke of Newcastle, who
cannot bear to resign the last twilight of the old sun, would join  with Fox; but the Chancellor,
who hates him, and is alarmed at  his unpopularity, and at the power of Pitt with the people,
holds back.  Bath, Exeter, Yarmouth, and Worcester, have followed the example of london, and
sent their freedoms to  Pitt and Legge: I suppose Edinburgh will, but instead of giving, will
ask for a gold box in return.  Here are some new epigrams on the present politics:

TO THE NYMPH OF BATH. Mistaken Nymph, thy gifts withhold; Pitt's virtuous soul despises gold;
Grant him thy boon peculiar, health; He'll guard, not covet, Britain's wealth.

Another. The two great rivals London might content, If what he values most to each she sent;
Ill was the franchise coupled with the box: Give Pitt the freedom, and the gold to Fox.

ON DR.  SHEBBEAR ABUSING Hume CAMPBELL FOR BEING A PROSTITUTE ADVOCATE. 'Tis below you, dear
Doctor to worry an elf, Who you know will defend $any thing but himself.

The two first are but middling, and I am bound to think the last so, as it is my own.  Shebbear
is a broken Jacobite physician, who has threatened to write himself into a place or the pillory:
he has Just published a bitter letter to the Duke of Newcastle, which occasioned the above
two lines.

The French have seized in their own name the country of Bentheim, a purchase of the King's,
after having offered him the most insulting neutrality for Hanover, in the world; they proposed
putting a garrison into the strongest Post(785) he  has, with twenty other concessions.  We
have rumours of the  Prince of Bevern having beaten the Austrians considerably. I believe,
upon review, that this is a mighty indefinite letter; I would have waited for certainties,
but not knowing how long that might be, I thought you would prefer this parenthesis of politics.

lord Northumberland's great gallery is finished and opened; it is a sumptuous chamber, but
might have been in a better taste. He is wonderfully content with his pictures, and gave me
leave to repeat it to you.  I rejoiced, as you had been the negotiator--as you was not the
painter, you will allow me not to be so profuse of my applause. Indeed I have yet only seen
them by candle-light.  Mengs's School of Athens pleased me: Pompeio's two are black and hard;
Mazucci's Apollo, fade and without beauty; Costanza's piece is abominable.  Adieu! till a ministry.

(785) Hamelen.

374 Letter 218 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, May 19, 1757.

We are not yet arrived at having a ministry, but we have had two or three alarms at one.  On
Monday, the Duke of Devonshire, impatient for a plaything, took the chamberlain's staff and
key--these were reckoned certain prognostics; but  they were only symptoms Of his childishness.
Yesterday it was published that Mr. Pitt's terms were so extravagant, that the Duke of Newcastle
could not comply with them--and would take  the whole himself--perhaps leave some little trifle
for Mr. Fox--to-day all is afloat again, and all negotiations to recommence.  Pitt's demands
were, that his grace should not meddle in the House of Commons, nor in the province of Secretary
of State, but stick to the Treasury, and even there to be controlled by a majority of Mr. Pitt's
friends-they were certainly great terms, but he has been taught not to trust  less. But it
is tautology to dwell on these variations; the inclosed(786 is an exact picture of our situation--and
is perhaps the only political paper ever written, in which no man of any party can dislike
or deny a single fact.  I wrote it in an hour and a half, and you will perceive that it must
be the effect of a single thought.

We had big letters yesterday of a total victory of the King of Prussia over the Austrians,(787)
with their army dispersed and their general wounded and prisoner--I don't know how, but it
is not confirmed yet.  You must excuse the brevity of my English letter, in consideration of
my Chinese one.  Adieu! (786) Letter from Xo Ho, a Chinese philosopher at London, to his friend
Lien Chi at Pekin.

(787) This was the battle of Prague, gained by the King of Prussia on the 6th of May, 1757,
over the forces of the Empress-Queen, commanded by Prince Charles of Lorraine.-D.

375 Letter 219 To George Montagu, Esq. May 27, 1757.

I have ticketed you with numbers 5832, 58322, 58323, 58324, 58325, 58326; I think you bespoke
six.  I do not send them by post, unless you order it: but I have writ your name on each, lest
in case of accident my executors should put them into my auction, for which you are so impatient,
and then you would  have to buy them over again.

I am glad you like Xo Ho: I think every body does, which is strange, considering it has no
merit but truth.  Mrs. Clive cried out like you, "Lord! you will be sent to the Tower!" "Well,"
said I coolly, "my father was there before me."

Lord Abercorn's picture is extremely like; he seems by the Vandyke habit to be got back into
his own times; but nothing  is finished yet, except the head.

You will be diverted with a health which my Lady Townshend  gave at supper with the Prince
t'other night: "'Tis a health  you will all like," she said.  "Well! what is it?"  "The three
P's."  The boy coloured up to the eyes.  After keeping them in  suspense some time, she named,
Pitt, Peace, and Plenty.  The  Princess has given Home, the author of Douglas, a hundred a
year.  Prince and Princess Edward continue to entertain themselves and Ranelagh every night.

I wish your brother and all heirs to estates joy, for old  Shutz is dead, and cannot wriggle
himself into any more wills.   The ministry is not yet hatched; the King of Prussia is conquering
the world; Mr. Chute has some murmurs of the gout; and I am yours for ever.

376 Letter 220 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 1, 1757.

After a vacancy of full two months, we are at last likely to have a ministry again--I do not
promise you a very lasting  one. Last Wednesday the conferences broke off between the  Duke
of Newcastle and Mr. Pitt; the latter demanding a full  restoration of his friends, with the
admiralty and a peerage  for Mr. Legge, the blue riband and, I believe, Ireland for  Lord Temple,
and Mr. Grenville for chancellor of the exchequer, with stipulations that no more money should
be sent this year to Germany.  The last article, the admiralty, and especially the exchequer,
were positively refused; and on  Friday the Duke went to the King, and consented to be sole
minister, insisting that Mr. Fox should be nothing but paymaster, not cabinet-councillor, and
have no power; Sir Thomas Robinson to be again secretary of state, and Sir George Lee chancellor
of exchequer.  For form, he was to retire to Claremont for a few days, to take advice of his
oracle, whose answer he had already dictated.  Lord Hardwicke refuses the seals; says, he desires
nobody should be dismissed for him; if president or privy seal should by any means be vacant,
he will accept either, but nothing till Lord Anson is satisfied, for whom he asks treasurer
of the navy.  The Duke goes to Kensington to-morrow, when all this is to be declared-however,
till it is, I shall doubt it.  Lord Lincoln and his principal friends are vehement against
it; and indeed his grace seems to be precipitating his own ruin.  If Mr. Fox could forgive
all that is past, which he by no means intends, here are now provocations added--will they
invite Mr. Fox's support? Not to mention what Unpopular German steps the Duke must take to
recover the King's favour, who is now entirely Fox's; the  latter is answerable for nothing,
and I believe would not  manage inquiries against his grace as Mr. Pitt has--leniently.   In
short, I think the month of October will terminate the  fortunes of the house of Pelham for
ever--his supporters are  ridiculous; his followers will every day desert to one or  other
of the two princes(788) of the blood, who head the other  factions.  Two parts in three of
the cabinet, at least half,  are attached to Mr. Fox; there the Duke will be overborne; in
Parliament will be deserted.  Never was a plan concerted with  more weakness!

I enclose a most extraordinary print.  Mr. Fox has found some caricaturist(789) equal to George
Townshend, and who manages royal personages with at least as little ceremony.  I have written
"Lord Lincoln" over the blue riband, because some  people take it for him--likeness there is
none: it is certain  Lord Lincoln's mother was no whore; she never recovered the  death of
her husband.  The line that follows "son of a whore"  seems but too much connected with it;
at least the "could say  more" is not very merciful.  The person of Lord Bute, not his  face,
is ridiculously like; Newcastle, Pitt, and Lord Temple  are the very men.  It came out but
to-day, and shows how cordial the new union is.  Since the Ligue against Henry III. of France,
there never was such intemperate freedom with velvet and ermine; never, I believe, where religion
was not concerned.

I cannot find by the dates you send me that I have received yours of Jan. 1, and Feb. 12, and
I keep all your letters very orderly.  Mine of this year to you have been of Jan. 6, 17,  30;
Feb. 14; March 3 , 17; April 7, 20; May 5, 19.  Tell me if  you have received them.

What a King is our Prussian! how his victories come out doubled and trebled above their very
fame! My Lady Townshend says, "Lord! how all the Queens will go to see this Solomon!  and how
they will be disappointed!"  How she of Hungary is disappointed!  We hear that the French have
recalled their  green troops, which had advanced for show, and have sent their  oldest regiments
against the Duke.(790)  Our foreign affairs  are very serious, but I don't know whether I do
not think that  our domestic tend to be more so! Adieu!

(788) The Prince of Wales, who espoused Mr. Pitt; and the Duke of Cumberland, Mr. Fox.

(789) This relates to a print that made much noise, called  "The Turnstile." The uncertain
figure pretended to be Lord  Lincoln, but was generally thought to mean the Prince of Wales,
whom it resembled; but in the second impression a little demon was inserted to imply ,The Devil
over Lincoln." Yet that evasion did not efface the first idea.

(790) The Duke of Cumberland.

377 Letter 221 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, June 2, 1757.  I believe the Duke
himself has said this; but, as I think the former establishment would be the  less ridiculous
of the two, I intend to believe that.

I send you your tickets and a curious new print.  The blue riband in the corner, and the line
that explains it, but leaves it still in the dark, makes much noise.  I choose to think it
my Lord Lincoln, for, having a tenderness for royalties, I will not suppose, as most do, that
it points higher.  The rest are certainly admirable: the times are very entertaining; one cannot
complain that no Wit is stirring, as one used to do. I never thought I should feel glad for
the  death of poor Mr. Pelham; but really it has opened such scenes  of amusement, that I begin
to bear it better than I did.  I  rejoice to hear that your brother is accommodated, though
not  by my means.  The Duke of Bedford might have reflected, that  what I asked was a very
trifle, or that I should never have  asked it; nay, that if I could have asked a favour of
consequence, I should not have applied to himself, but to  those who govern him,--to the Duchess
and Rigby.

I certainly am glad of rain, but could wish it was boiled a little over the sun first: Mr.
Bentley calls this the hard summer, and says he is forced to buy his fine weather at Newcastle.
Adieu!

P. S. Pray acknowledge the receipt of your tickets.  I don't know how you came not to see the
advertisements of Xo Ho,  which have been in continually; four editions were published  in
twelve days.

(791) Vice-chamberlain to the Princess of wales.

378 Letter 222 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 9, 1757.

I must write you a very different story from my last.  The day before yesterday the Duke of
Newcastle, who had resumed conferences with Mr.  Pitt by the intervention of Lord Bute, though
they could not agree on particulars, went to Kensington, and told the King he could not act
without Mr.  Pitt and a great plan of that connexion.  The King reproached  him with his breach
of promise; It seems the King is in the  wrong for Lord Lincoln and that court reckon his grace
as  white as snow, and as steady as virtue itself.  Mr. Fox went  to court, and consented to
undertake the whole--but it is  madness!  Lord Waldegrave,(792) a worthy man as ever was born,
and sensible, is to be the first lord of his treasury.  Who is  to be any thing else I don't
know, for by to-morrow it will  rain resignations as it did in the year '46.  Lord Holderness
has begun, and gave up to-day; the Dukes of Rutland and Leeds  and all these Pelhamites are
to follow immediately: the standard of opposition is, I believe, ready painted, and is to be
hung out at Leicester-house by the beginning of the week.   I grieve for Mr. Fox, and have
told him so: I see how desperate his game is, but I shall not desert him, though I mean nor
meant to profit of his friendship.  So many places  will be vacant, that I cannot yet guess
who will be to fill  them. Mr. Fox will be chancellor of the exchequer, and, I  think, Lord
Egremont one of the secretaries of state.  What is  certain, great clamour, and I fear.  great
confusion, will  follow.  You shall know more particulars in a few days, but at  present I
have neither time for it, nor knowledge of, more.   Adieu!

(792) James second Earl Waldegrave, and first Husband to Maria Duchess of gloucester.

379 Letter 223 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 14, 1757.

This is Tuesday; I wrote to you but on Thursday, and promised  to write again in a few days--a
week cannot pass without a new revolution.  On Friday Mr. Fox found that his kissing hands
was to be a signal for the resignations: Lord Rockingham and  Lord Coventry were the most eager
to give up.  The Duke of  Newcastle, transported that his breach of promise and ingratitude
to the King produced such noble mischief, endeavoured to spread the flame as wide as possible.
On Saturday, Mr. Fox and Lord Waldegrave represented the ugly situation of their affairs, and
advised against persisting,  yet offering to proceed if commanded.  The Chief Justice, who
was to carry the exchequer seal that morning, enforced this--  "Well," said the King, "go tell
the others to make what ministry they can; I only insist on two things, that Lord Winchilsea
remain where he is, and that Fox be paymaster." These two preliminaries would be enough to
prevent the whole,  if there were no other obstacles.  Lord Winchilsea, indeed,  would not
act with Newcastle and Pitt, if they would consent;  but there are twenty other impediments:
Leicester-house can  never forgive or endure Fox; and if they could, his and Winchilsea's remaining
would keep their friends from resigning, and then how would there be room for Newcastle's zealots
or Pitt's martyrs?  But what I take to be most difficult of all, is the accommodation between
the chiefs themselves: his grace's head and heart seem to be just as  young and as old as ever
they were; this triumph will intoxicate him; if he could not agree with Pitt, when his prospect
was worst, be will not be more firm or more sincere when all his doublings have been rewarded.
If his vainglory turns his head, it will make no impression on Pitt, who is as little likely
to be awed by another's pageant, as to be depressed by his own slender train.  They can't agree--but
what becomes of us? There are three factions, just strong  enough to make every thing impracticable.

The willing victim, Lord Holderness, is likely to be the most real victim.  His situation was
exactly parallel to Lord Harrington's,(793) with the addition of the latter's experience. 
Both the children of fortune, unsupported by talents, fostered by the King's favour, without
connexions or interest, deserted him to please this wayward Duke, who, to recover a little
favour in the cabinet, sacrificed the first  to the King@s resentment, and has prepared to
treat the other  in the same manner, by protesting that he did not ask the compliment.  But
no matter for him! I have already told you,  and I repeat, that I see no end to these struggles
without  great convulsions.  The provocations, and consequently the resentments, increase with
every revolution.  Blood royal is mixed in the quarrels: two factions might cease by the victory
of either; here is always a third ready to turn the scale. Happily the people care or interest
themselves very little  about all this-but they will be listed soon, as the chiefs  grow so
much in earnest, and as there are men of such vast  property engaged on every side-there is
not a public pretence  on any. The scramble is avowedly for power-whoever remains  master of
the field at last, I fear, will have power to use  it!

This is not the sole uneasiness at Kensington; they know the proximity of the French army to
the Duke, and think that by  this time there may have been an action: the suspense is not pleasant:
the event may have great consequences even on these broils at home.  For the King of Prussia,
he is left to the coffee-houses.  Adieu! I can scarce steal a day for Strawberry; if one leaves
London to itself for four-and-twenty hours, one finds it topsy-turvy.

(793) William Stanhope, Earl of Harrington, who, though a younger brother, had been raised
to an earldom, to be Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and Secretary of State, had been the first
man to resign his place in 1746, when the King, his  master and benefactor, had a mind to remove
the Pelhams, and  make Lord Granville prime minister.  He was afterwards sacrificed by the
Pelhams to please the King.  Lord Holderness was born to an earldom, but having little fortune
or parts,  had been promoted by the Duke of Newcastle to great posts.

380 Letter 224 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, June 20, 1757.

