No. 4.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1849 [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       * {49}

CONTENTS.

Our Progress and Prospects. 49

NOTES:-- Luther and Erasmus, by John Bruce. 50 Hallam's Middle Ages. 51 Adversaria I.--Writers
of Notes on Fly-leaves. 51 Origin of Grog and Ancient Alms-Basins. 52 Dyce v. Warburton and
Collier. 53 Food of the People, by J.T. Hammack. 54 Bishop Barnaby. 55 Trade Editions. 55 Dibdin's
Typograph Antiquities, by Rev. Dr. Maitland. 56 Queries answered, II., by Bolton Corney. 56
Madoc's Expedition to America. 57

QUERIES:-- "Clouds" or Shrouds, in Shakspeare. 58 Medal of Pretender, by B. Nightingale. 58
Roger de Coverley. 59 Landed and Commercial Policy of England. 59 The Rev. Thomas Leman. 59
Gothic Architecture. 59 Katherine Pegg. 59 Queries on Mediæval Geography. 60 Myles Bloomfylde
and William Bloomfield on Alchymy. 60 Thynne's Collection of Chancellors. 60 Cold Harbour.
60 Statistics of the Roman Catholic Church. 61 Incumbents of Church Livings. 61 Curse of Scotland,
by Edward Hawkins.

When we consulted our literary friends as to the form and manner in which it would be most
expedient to put forth our "NOTES AND QUERIES," more than one suggested to us that our paper
should appear only once a month, or at all events not more frequently than once a fortnight,
on the ground that a difficulty would be experienced in procuring materials for more frequent
publication. We felt, however, that if such a medium of Inter-communication, as we proposed
to establish was, as we believed, really wanted, frequency of publication was indispensable.
Nothing but a weekly publication would meet what we believed to be the requirements of literary
men. We determined, therefore, to publish a Number every Saturday; and the result has so far
justified our decision, that the object of our now addressing our readers is to apologise to
the many friends whose communications we are again unavoidably compelled to postpone; and to
explain that we are preparing to carry out such further improvements in our arrangements as
will enable us to find earlier admission for all the communications with which we are favoured.

One other word. It has been suggested to us that in inviting Notes, Comments, and Emendations
upon the works of Macaulay, Hallam, and other living authors, we may possibly run a risk of
offending those eminent men. We hope not. We are sure that this outght not to be the case.
Had we not recognised the merits of such works, and the influence they were destined to exercise
over men's minds, we should not have opened our pages for the purpose of receiving, much less
have invited, corrections of the mistakes into which the most honest and the most able of literary
inquirers must sometimes fall. Only those who have meddled in historical research can be aware
of the extreme difficulty, the all but impossibility, of ascertaining the exact or the whole
truth, amidst the numerous minute and often apparently contradictory facts which present themselves
to the notice of all inquirers. In this very number a correspondent comments upon an inference
drawn by Mr. Hallam from a passage in Mabillon. In inserting such a communication we show the
respect we feel for Mr. Hallam, and our {50} sense of the services which he has rendered to
historical knowledge. Had we believed that if he has fallen into a mistake in this instance,
it had been not merely a mistake, but a deliberate perversion of the truth, we should have
regarded both book and writer with indifference, not to say with contempt. It is in the endeavour
to furnish corrections of little unavoidable slips in such good honest books--albeit imperfect
as all books must be--that we hope at once to render good service to our national literature,
and to show our sense of genius, learning, and research which have combined to enrich it by
the production of works of such high character and last influence.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES

LATIN EPIGRAM AGAINST LUTHER AND ERASMUS.

Mr. Editor,--Your correspondent "Roterodamus" (pp. 27, 28) asks, I hope, for the author of
the epigram which he quotes, with a view to a life of his great townsman, Erasmus. Such a book,
written by some competent hand, and in an enlarged and liberal spirit, would be a noble addition
to the literature of Europe. There is no civilised country that does not feel an interest in
the labours and in the fame of Erasmus. I am able to answer your correspondents question, but
it is entirely by chance. I read the epigram which he quotes several years ago, in a book of
a kind which one would like to see better known in this country--a typographical or bibliographical
history of Douay. It is entitled, "Bibliographie Douaisienne, ou Catalogue Historique et Raisonné
des Livres imprimés à Douai depuis l'année 1563 jusqu'a nos jours, avec des notes bibliographiques
et littéraires; Par H.R. Duthilloeul. 8vo. Douai, 1842." The 111th book noticed in the volume
is entitled, "Epigrammata in Hæreticos. Authore Andrea Frusio, Societatis Jesu. Tres-petit
in 8vo. 1596." The book is stated to contain 251 epigrams, "aimed," says M. Duthilloeul, "at
the heretics and their doctrines. The author has but one design, which is to render odious
and ridiculous, the lives, persons, and errors of the apostles of the Reformation." He quotes
three of the epigrams, the third being the one your correspondent has given you. It has this
title, "De Lutheri et Erasmi differentia," and is the 209th epigram in the book.

I have never met with a copy of the work of Frusius, nor do I know any thing of him as an author.
The learned writer who pours out a store of curious learning in the pages of Gentleman's Magazine
is more likely than any body that I know to tell you something about him.

Mons. Duthilloeul quotes another epigram from the same book upon the Encomium Moriæ, but it
is too long and too pointless for your pages. He adds another thing which is more in your way,
namely, that a former possessor of the copy of the work then before him had expressed his sense
of the value of these "epigrammes dévotes" in the following NOTE:--

    "Nollem carere hoe libello auro nequidem contra pensitato."

Perhaps some one who possesses or has access to the book would give us a complete list of the
persons who are the subjects of these defamatory epigrams. And I may add, as you invite us
to put our queries, Is not Erasmus entitled to the distinction of being regarded as the author
of the work which the largest single edition has ever been printed and sold? Mr. Hallam mentions
that, "in the single year 1527, Colinæus printed 24,000 copies of the Colloquies, all of which
were sold." This is the statement of Moreri. Bayle gives some additional information. Quoting
a letter of Erasmus as his authority, he says, that Colinæus, who--like the Brussels and American
reprinters of our day--was printing the book at Paris from a Basle edition, entirely without
the concurrence of Erasmus, and without any view of his participation in the profit, circulated
a report that the book was about to be prohibited by the Holy See. The curiosity of the public
was excited. Every one longed to secure a copy. The enormous edition--for the whole 24,000
was but one impression--was published contemporaneously with the report. It was a cheap and
elegant book, and sold as fast as it could be handed over the booksellers counter. As poor
Erasmus had no pecuniary benefit {51} from the edition, he ought to have the credit which arises
from this proof of his extraordinary popularity. The public, no doubt, enjoyed greatly his
calm but pungent exposure of the absurd practices which were rife around them. That his humorous
satire was felt by its objects, is obvious from this epigram, as well as from a thousand other
evidences.

JOHN BRUCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

HALLAMS MIDDLE AGES--ALLEGED IGNORANCE OF THE CLERGY.

Sir,--When reading Hallam's History of the Middle Ages a short time ago I was startled by the
following passage which occurs amongst other evidences of the ignorance of the clergy during
the period subsequent to the dissolution of the Roman Empire.

And for this statement he refers to Mabillon, De Re Diplomatica, p. 52.

On referring to Mabillon, I find that the passage runs as follows:--

    "Christiani posthabitis scripturis sanctis, earumque
    interpretibus, Arabum Chaldæorumque libris evolvendis
    incumbentes, legem suam nesciebant, et linguam propriam non
    advertebant latinam, ita ut ex omni Christi collegio vix
    inveniretur unus in milleno hominum genere, qui salutatorias
    fratri posset rationabiliter dirigere litteras."

So that although Mabillon says that scarce one in a thousand could address a Latin letter to
another, yet he by no means says that it was on account of their general ignorance, but because
they were addicting themselves to other branches of learning. They were devoting all their
energies to Arabic and Chaldæan science, and in their pursuit of it neglected other literature.
A similar remark might be made of respecting many distinguished members of the University to
which I belong; yet who would feel himself justified in inferring thence that Cambridge was
sunk in ignorance?

CANTAB.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERSARIA

    [In our Prospectus we spoke of NOTES AND QUERIES becoming
    everybody's common-place book. The following very friendly
    letter from an unknown correspondent, G.J.K., urges us to carry
    out such an arrangement.

    "Sir,--I beg leave to forward you a contribution for your 'NOTES
    AND QUERIES,' a periodical which is, I conceive, likely to do a
    vast deal of good by bringing literary men of all shades of
    opinion into closer juxtaposition than they have hitherto been.

    "I would, however, suggest that in future numbers a space might
    be allotted for the reception of those articles (short of
    course), which students and literary men in general, transfer to
    their common-place books; such as notices of scarce or curious
    books, biographical or historical curiosities, remarks on
    ancient or obsolete customs, &c. &c. &c. Literary men are
    constantly meeting with such in the course of their reading, and
    how much better would it be if, instead of transferring them to
    a MS. book to be seen only by themselves, or perhaps a friend or
    two, they would forward them to a periodical, in which they
    might be enshrined in imperishable pica; to say nothing of the
    benefits such a course of proceeding would confer on those who
    might not have had the same facilities of gaining the
    information thus made public.

    "In pursuance of this suggestion, I have forwarded the inclosed
    paper, and should be happy, from time to time, to contribute
    such gleanings from old authors, &c. as I might think worth
    preserving.

    "G.J.K."

We readily comply with G.J.K.'s suggestion, and print, as the first of the series, his interesting
communication, entitled:]

1. Writers of Notes on Fly-leaves, &c.

The Barberini Library at Rome contains a vast number of books covered with marginal notes by
celebrated writers, such as Scaliger, Allatius, Holstentius, David Haeschel, Barbadori, and
above all, Tasso, who has annotated with his own hand more than fifty volumes. Valery, in his
Voyages en Italie, states that a Latin version of Plato is not only annotated by the hand of
Tasso, but also by his father, Bernardo; a fact which sufficiently proves how deeply the language
and philosophy of the Greek writers were studied in the family. The remarks upon the Divina
Commedia, which, despite the opinion of Serassi, appear to be authentic, attest the profound
study which, from his youth, Tasso had made of the great poets, and the lively admiration he
displayed for their works. There is also in existence a copy of the Venice edition of the Divina
Commedia (1477), with autograph notes by Bembo.

Christina of Sweden had quite a mania for writing in her books. In the library of the Roman
College (at Rome) there are several books annotated by her, amongst others a {52} Quintus Curtius,
in which, as it would appear, she criticises very freely the conduct of Alexander. "He reasons
falsely in this case," she writes on one page; and elsewhere, "I should have acted diametrically
opposite; I should have pardoned;" and again, further on, "I should have exercised clemency;"
an assertion, however, we may be permitted to doubt, when we consider what sort of clemency
was exercised towards Monaldeschi. Upon the fly-leaf of a Seneca (Elzevir), she has written,
"Adversus virtutem possunt calamitates damna et injuriæ quod adversus solem nebulæ possunt."
The library of the Convent of the Holy Cross of Jerusalem at Rome, possesses a copy of the
Bibliotheca Hispanu, in the first volume of which the same princess has written on the subject
of a book relating to her conversion: [1] "Chi l'ha scritta, non lo sa; chi lo sa, non l'ha
mai scritta."

Lemontey has published some very curious Memoirs, which had been entirely written on the fly-leaves
and margins of a missal by J. de Coligny, who died in 1686.

Racine, the French tragic poet, was also a great annotator of his books; the Bibliothèque National
at Paris possesses a Euripides and Aristophanes from his library, the margins of which are
covered with notes in Greek, Latin, and French.

The books which formerly belonged to La Monnoie are now recognizable by the anagram of his
name. A Delio nomen, and also by some very curious notes on the fly-leaves and margins written
in microscopic characters.

G.J.K.

[Footnote 1: Conversion de la Reina de Suecia in Roma (1656).]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF WORD "GROG."

Mr. Vaux writes as follows:--Admiral Vernon was the first to require his men to drink their
spirits mixed with water. In bad weather he was in the habit of walking the deck in a rough
grogram cloak, and thence had obtained the nickname of Old Grog in the Service. This is, I
believe, the origin of the name grog, applied originally to rum and water. I find the same
story repeated in a quaint little book, called Pulleyn's Etymological Compendium.

    [A.S. has communicated a similar explanation; and we are obliged
    to "An old LADY who reads for Pastime" for kindly furnishing us
    with a reference to a newly published American work, Lifts for
    the Lazy, where the origin of "Grog" is explained in the same
    manner.

    The foregoing was already in type when we received the following
    agreeable version of the same story.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF WORD "GROG"--ANCIENT ALMS-BASINS.

Mr. Editor,--As a sailor's son I beg to answer your correspondent LEGOUR'S query concerning
the origin of the word "grog," so famous in the lips of our gallant tars. Jack loves to give
a pet nickname to his favourite officers. The gallant Edward Vernon (a Westminster man by birth)
was not exempted from the general rule. His gallantry and ardent devotion to his profession
endeared him to the service, and some merry wags of the crew, in an idle humour, dubbed him
"Old Grogham." Whilst in command of the West Indian station, and at the height of his popularity
on account of his reduction of Porto Bello with six men-of-war only, he introduced the use
of rum and water by the ship's company. When served out, the new beverage proved most palatable,
and speedily grew into such favour, that it became as popular as the brave admiral himself,
and in honour of him was surnamed by acclamation "Grog."

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

P.S.--There are two other alms-basins in St. Margaret's worthy of note, besides those I mentioned
in your last number. One has the inscription, "Live well, die never; die well and live ever.
A.D. 1644 W.G." The other has the appropriate legend, "Hee that gives too the poore lends unto
thee LORD." A third bears the Tudor rose in the centre. In an Inventory made about the early
part of the 17th century, are mentioned "one Bason given by Mr. Bridges, of brasse." (The donor
was a butcher in the parish.) "Item, one bason, given by Mr. Brugg, of brasse." On the second
basin are the arms and crest of the Brewers' Company. Perhaps Mr. Brugg was a member of it.
One Richard Bridges was a churchwarden, A.D. 1630-32.

M.W.

7. College Street. Nov. 17.

       *       *       *       *       * {53}

DYCE VERSUS WARBURTON AND COLLIER--AND SHAKSPEARE'S MSS.

In Mr. Dyce's Remarks on Mr. J.P. Collier's and Mr. C. Knight's Editions of Shakspeare, pp.
115, 116, the following note occurs:--

    "King Henry IV., Part Second, act iv. sc. iv.

        "As humorous as winter, and as sudden
         As flaws congealed in the spring of day."

    "Alluding," says Warburton, "to the opinion of some
    philosophers, that the vapours being congealed in air by cold,
    (which is most intense towards the morning,) and being
    afterwards rarified and let loose by the warmth of the sun,
    occasion those sudden and impetuous guests of wind which are
    called flaws."--COLLIER.

    "An interpretation altogether wrong, as the epithet here applied
    to 'flaws' might alone determine; 'congealed gusts of wind'
    being nowhere mentioned among the phenomena of nature except in
    Baron Munchausen's Travels. Edwards rightly explained 'flaws,'
    in the present passage, 'small blades of ice.' I have myself
    heard the word used to signify both thin cakes of ice and the
    bursting of those cakes."--DYCE.

Mr. Dyce may perhaps have heard the world floe (plural floes) applied to floating sheet-ice,
as it is to be found so applied extensively in Captain Parry's Journal of his Second Voyage;
but it remains to be shown whether such a term existed in Shakspeare's time. I think it did
not, as after diligent search I have not met with it; and, if it did, and then had the same
meaning, floating sheet-ice, how would it apply to the illustration of this passage?

That the uniform meaning of flaws in the poet's time was sudden gust of wind, and figuratively
sudden gusts of passion, or fitful and impetuous action, is evident from the following passages:--

  "Like a red morn, that ever yet betoken'd
  Wreck to the seamen, tempest to the field,
  Sorrow to shepherds, woe unto the birds,
  Gust and foul flaws to herdsmen and to herds."
    Venus and Adonis.

  "Like a great sea-mark standing every flaw."
    Coriolanus, act v. sc. iii.

  "--patch a wall to expel the winter's flaw."
    Hamlet, act v. sc. i.

  "Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams
  Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw."
    3d Pt. Henry VI., act iii. sc. i.

  "--these flaws and starts (impostors to true
  fear)."
    Macbeth, act iv. sc. iv.

  "Falling in the flaws of her own youth, hath
  blistered her report."
    Meas. for Meas., act ii. sc. iii.

So far for the poet's acceptation of its meaning.

Thus also Lord Surrey:--

    "And toss'd with storms, with flaws, with wind, with weather."

And Beaumont and Fletcher, in The Pilgrim:--

  "What flaws, and whirles of weather,
  Or rather storms, have been aloft these three days."

Shakspeare followed the popular meteorology of his time, as will appear from the following
passage from a little ephemeris then very frequently reprinted:--

    "De Repentinis Ventis.

    "8. Typhon, Plinio, Vortex, aliis Turbo, et vibratus Ecnephias,
    de nube gelida (ut dictum est) abruptum aliquid sæpe numero
    secum voluit, ruinamque suam illo pondere aggravat: quem
    repentinum flatum à nube prope terram et mare depulsum,
    definuerunt quidam, ubi in gyros rotatur, et proxima (ut
    monuimus) verrit, suáque vi sursum raptat."--MIZALDUS,
    Ephemeridis Æris Perpetuus: seu Rustica tempestatum
    Astrologia, 12º Lutet. 1584.

I have sometimes thought that Shakspeare may have written:--

  "As flaws congested in the spring of day."

It is an easy thing to have printed congealed for that word, and congest occurs in A Lover's
Complaint. Still I think change unnecessary.

Has the assertion made in An Answer to Mr. Pope's Preface to Shakspeare, by a Strolling Player,
1729, respecting the destruction of the poet's MSS. papers, been ever verified? If that account
is authentic, it will explain the singular dearth of all autograph remains of one who must
have written so much.

S.W.S.

Mickleham, Nov. 14. 1849.

    [We cannot insert the interesting Query which our correspondent
    has forwarded on the subject of the disappearance of
    Shakespeare's MSS. without referring to the ingenious suggestion
    upon that subject so skilfully brought forward by the Rev.
    Joseph Hunter in his New Illustrations of the Life, Studies,
    and Writings of Shakspeare, vol. i. p. 105.:--"That the entire
    disappearance of all manuscripts of Shakspeare, so entire that
    no writing of his remains except his name, and only one letter
    ever addressed to him, is in some way connected with the
    religious turn which his posterity took, in whose eyes there
    would be much to be lamented in what they must, I fear, have
    considered a prostitution of the noble talents which had been
    given him."]

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOD OF THE PEOPLE.--BILLS OF FARE IN 1683--HUMBLE PIE.

The food of the people must always be regarded as an important element in estimating the degree
of civilization of a nation, and its position in the social scale. Mr. Macaulay, in his masterly
picture of the state of England at the period of the accession of James II., has not failed
to notice this subject as illustrative of the condition of the working classes of that day.
He tells us that meat, viewed relatively with wages, was "so dear that hundreds of thousands
of families scarcely knew the taste of it.... The great majority of the nation lived almost
entirely on rye, barley, and oats." (Hist. Eng. vol. i. p. 418., 4th ed.)

It is not uninteresting to inquire (and having found, it is worth making a note of) what sort
of fare appeared on the tables of the upper and middle classes,--who, unlike their poorer neighbours,
were in a condition to gratify their gastronomic preferences in the choice and variety of their
viands,--with the view of determining whether the extraordinary improvement which has taken
place in the food of the labouring population has been equally marked in that of the wealthier
orders.

Pepys, who was unquestionably a lover of good living, and never tired of recording his feastings
off "brave venison pasty," or "turkey pye," has given in his Diary many curious notices of
the most approved dishes of his day. The following "Bills of fare" of the period referred to
speak, however, directly to the point; they are taken from a work entitled, The accomplisht
Lady's Delight, in Preserving, Physick, Beautifying, and Cookery. London, printed for B. Harris,
1683.

    "A Bill of fare for a Gentleman's House about Candlemas.

    "1. A Pottage with a Hen. 2. A Chatham-pudding. 3. A Fricacie
    of Chickens. 4. A leg of mutton with a Sallet. Garnish your
    dishes with Barberries.

    "Second Course. 1. A chine of Muton. 2. A chine of Veal. 3.
    Lark-pye. 4. A couple of Pullets, one larded. Garnished with
    orange slices.

    "Third Course. 1. A dish of Woodcocks. 2. A couple of Rabbits.
    3. A dish of Asparagus. 4. A Westphalia Gammon.

    "Last Course. 1. Two orange tarts, one with herbs. 2. A Bacon
    Tart. 3. An apple Tart. 4. A dish of Bon-chriteen pears. 5. A
    dish of Pippins. 6. A dish of Pearmains.

    "A Banquet for the same Season.

    "1. A dish of Apricots. 2. A dish of marmalade of Pippins. 3. A
    dish of preserved Cherries. 4. A whole red Quince. 5. A dish of
    dryed sweet-meats.

    "A Bill of Fare upon an extraordinary Occasion.

    "1. A collar of brawn. 2. A couple of Pullets boyled. 3. A bisk
    of Fish. 4. A dish of Carps. 5. A grand boyled Meat. 6. A grand
    Sallet. 7. A venison pasty. 8. A roasted Turkey. 9. A fat pig.
    10. A powdered Goose. 11. A haunch of Venison roasted. 12. A
    Neats-tongue and Udder roasted. 13. A Westphalia Ham boyled. 14.
    A Joll of Salmon. 15. Mince pyes. 16. A Surloyn of roast beef.
    17. Cold baked Meats. 18. A dish of Custards.

    "Second Course. 1. Jellies of all sorts. 2. A dish of
    Pheasants. 3. A Pike boyled. 4. An oyster pye. 5. A dish of
    Plovers. 6. A dish of larks. 7. A Joll of Sturgeon. 8. A couple
    of Lobsters. 9. A lamber pye. 10. A couple of Capons. 11. A dish
    of Partridges. 12. A fricacy of Fowls. 13. A dish of Wild Ducks.
    14. A dish of cram'd chickens. 15. A dish of stewed oysters. 16.
    A Marchpane. 17. A dish of Fruits. 18. An umble pye."

The fare suggested for "Fish days" is no less various and abundant; twelve dishes are enumerated
for the first course, and sixteen for the second. Looking at the character of these viands,
some of which would not discredit the genius of a Soyer or a Mrs. Glasse, {55} it seems pretty
evident that in the article of food the labouring classes have been the greatest gainers since
1687.

Few things are more suggestive of queries--as everybody knows from experience--than the products
of culinary art. I will not, however, further trespass on space which may be devoted to a more
dignified topic, than by submitting the following.

Query.--Does the phrase "to eat humble pie," used to signify a forced humiliation, owe its
origin to the "umble pye" specified above?

J.T. HAMMACK

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP BARNABY.

Mr. Editor,--Legour asks, why the people in Suffolk call a lady-bird "Bishop Barnaby?"

I give the following from the late Major Moor's Suffolk Words.

    "Bishop-Barney. The golden bug. See Barnabee. In Tasser's Ten
    Unwelcome Guests in the Dairy, he enumerates 'the Bishop that
    burneth' (pp. 142. 144.), in an ambiguous way, which his
    commentator does not render at all clear. I never heard of this
    calumniated insect being an unwelcome guest in the dairy; but
    Bishop-Barney, or Burney, and Barnabee, or Burnabee, and
    Bishop-that-burneth, seem, in the absence of explanation to be
    nearly related--in sound at any rate. Under Barnabee it will
    be seen that burning has some connection with the history of
    this pretty insect."

    "Barnabee," writes the Major, "the golden-bug, or lady-bird;
    also Bishop-Barney: which see. This pretty little, and very
    useful insect, is tenderly regarded by our children. One
    settling on a child is always sent away with this sad
    valediction:--

      "Gowden-bug, gowden-bug, fly away home,
      Yar house is bahnt deown and yar children all gone."

The Major adds, "It is sure to fly off on the third repetition."

"Burnt down," continues the Major, "gives great scope to our country euphonic twang, altogether
inexpressible in type; bahnt deeyown comes as near to it as my skill in orthography will allow."

Ray, in his South and East Country Words, has this:--

    "Bishop, the little spotted beetle, commonly called the lady-cow
    or lady-bird. I have heard this insect in other places called
    golden-knop, and doubtless in other countries it hath other
    names. (E. W. p. 70) Golden-bugs the common Suffolk name."

J.G. Southwold, Nov. 16. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRADE EDITIONS--COTTLE'S LIFE OF COLERIDGE.

Sir,--In the 2nd vol. of Mr. Collier's valuable and interesting Extracts from the Registers
of the Stationers' Company, p. 28, is the following entry:--

    "Thos. Dason. Licensed unto him the praise of follie; to print
    not above xv° of any impression, with this condition, that any
    of the Company may laie on with him, reasonablie at every
    impression, as they think good, and that he shall gyve
    reasonable knowledge before to them as often as he shall print
    it."

This is both curious and important information as being, in all probability, the earliest recorded
instance of a custom still kept up amongst booksellers, and which now passes under the designation
of a "Trade edition;" the meaning of which being, that the copyright, instead of being the
exclusive property of one person, is divided into shares and held by several. There are Trade
editions of such voluminous authors as Shakspeare, Gibbon, Hume, and Robertson, for instance;
and Alison's Europe, if published half a century back, might in all probability have been added
to the list. The difference between the ancient and the modern usage appears to be this, that
formerly when the type was set up for an edition "any of the company may laie on, (these two
last words are still technically used by printers for supplying type with paper,) reasonablie
at every impression," &c.; in other words, may print as many copies from the type "as they
think good;" whereas now, the edition is first printed, and then the allotment of the copies,
and the actual cost of them is made, according to the number of shares.

If this is a "Note" worth registering, it is much at your service, whilst for a "Query," I
should be very glad to be informed, when a very able review, the date of which I neglected
{56} to make at the time, appeared in the Times newspaper, of the 2nd edition of Cottle's Life
of Coleridge.

With many good wishes for the success of your register,

I remain, &c.

JOHN MILAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIBDIN'S TYPOGRAPHICAL ANTIQUITIES.

Sir,--I am very glad to have elicited the information contained in your number just published
respecting the copy of Borde's work in the Chetham Library. As I have a great respect for Mr.
Ames, I must remark that he had no share in the blunder, and whenever a new edition of his
work is undertaken, it will be well to look rather curiously into the enlargements of Dibdin.
In the mean time this information naturally leads to another Query--or rather, to more than
one--namely, "Had Mr. Bindley's copy this unique imprint? and what became of it at the sale
of his books? or is it only one of the imaginary editions which give bibliographers so much
trouble?" Perhaps some one of your correspondents may be able to give information.

Yours, &c.

S.R. MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 2

MADOC THE SON OF OWEN GWYNED.

The student who confines himself to a single question, may fairly expect a prompt and precise
answer. To ask for general information on a particular subject, may be a less successful experiment.
Who undertakes extensive research except for an especial purpose? Who can so far confide in
his memory as to append his name to a list of authorities without seeming to prove his own
superficiality? I throw out these ideas for consideration, just as they arise; but neither
wish to repress the curiosity of querists, nor to prescribe bounds to the communicative disposition
of respondents.

Did Madoc, son of Owen Gwynedd, prince of Wales, discover America? Stimulated by the importance
of the question, and accustomed to admire the spirit of maritime enterprise, at whatever period
it may have been called into action, I have sometimes reflected on this debatable point--but
can neither affirm nor deny it.

I advise the student, as a preliminary step to the inquiry, to attempt a collection of all
the accessible evidence, historical and ethnographic, and to place the materials which pertain
to each class in the order of time. The historical evidence exists, I believe exclusively,
in the works of the chroniclers and bards of Wales; and the ethnographic evidence in the narratives
of travellers in America. The opinions of modern writers, the gifted author of Madoc not excepted,
he is at liberty to consider as hors-d'oeuere--to be passed on, or tasted, à plaisir. 4º. p. 227.

    [The history of Caradoc ends with A.D. 1156.

    "These verses I received of my learned friend M. William
    Camden." Richard Hakluyt, 1589.

    [The eulogy of Meredydd ab Rhys is very indefinite, but deserves
    notice on account of its early date. He "flourished," says W.
    Owen, "between A.D. 1430 and 1460."]

    "This land must needs be some part of that countrie of which the
    Spaniardes affirme themselves to be the first finders sith
    Hannos time; ... Whereupon it is manifest, that that countrie
    was long before by Brytaines discouered, afore either Columbus
    or Americus Vespatius lead anie Spaniardes thither. Of the viage
    and returne of this Madoc there be manie fables fained, as the
    common people doo use in distance of place {57} and length of
    time rather to augment than to diminish: but sure it is, that
    there he was."--HUMFREY LHOYD, Additions to the Historie of
    Cambria, p. 228.

    [Lhoyd, who translated the history of Caradoc, and made
    considerable additions to it, died in 1568. 4°. p. 229.

    [The learned Powel relies on the authority of the poet Gutyn
    Owen. "He wrote," says W. Owen, "between A.D. 1460 and
    1490"--three centuries after the event in question!]

    Ethnographic evidence.

    "They came [anno 1536] to part of the West Indies about Cape
    Breton, shaping their course thence north-eastwards, vntill they
    camme to the Island of Penguin," etc.--The voyage of master
    Hore, in The principall navigations, etc. 1589. Fol.

    [Antiquaries consider the mention of Cape Breton and Penguin
    Island as evidence. It cannot prove much, as the particulars
    were not committed to writing till about half-a-century after
    the voyage.]

    "There is also another kinde of foule in that countrey [between
    the Gulf of Mexico and Cape Breton] ... they have white heads,
    and therefore the country men call them penguins (which
    seemeth to be a Welsh nanme). And they have also in use divers
    other Welsh words, a matter worthy the noting."--The relation
    of David Ingram, 1568. in The principall navigations, etc.
    1589. Fol.

    [This narrative was compiled from answers to certain
    queries--perhaps twenty years after the events related.]

    "Afterwards [anno 1669] they [The Doeg Indians] carried us to
    their town, and entertained us civilly for four months; and I
    did converse with them of many things in the British tongue, and
    did preach to them three times a week in the British tongue,"
    etc. Rev. Morgan Jones, 1686.--British Remains, 1777. 8°.

    [The editor omits to state how he procured the manuscript. The
    paper whence the above is extracted is either decisive of the
    question at issue, or a forgery.]

The student may infer, even from these imperfect hints, that I consider the subject which he
proposes to himself as one which deserves a strict investigation--provided the collections
hereafter described have ceased to be in existence.

    "With respect to this extraordinary occurence in the history of
    Wales, I have collected a multitude of evidences, in conjunction
    with Edward Williams, the bard, to prove that Madog must have
    reached the American continent; for the descendants of him and
    his followers exist there as a nation to this day; and the
    present position of which is on the southern branches of the
    Missouri river, under the appellations of Padoucas, White
    Indians, Civilized Indians, and Welsh Indians."--William Owen,
    F.A.S. 1803. 1836-1839. Copenhague. 8°. p.
    27.--Historia Vinlandiæ Antiquæ, seu partis Americæ
    septentrionalis--per Thormodum Terfæum. Haviniæ, 1705. 8°.
    1715. 8°--Antiquitates Americanæ, sive scriptores
    septentrionales rerum Ante-Columbianarum in America. Hafniæ,
    1837. 4°.

    On the Welsh discoveries.--The historie of Cambria, now called
    Wales--continued by David Powel. London, 1584. 4°. The
    Myvyrian archaiology of Wales, London, 1801-7. 8°. 3 vol.
    British remains, by the Rev. N. Owen, A.M. London, 1777. 8°.
    The Cambrian biography, by William Owen, F.A.S. London, 1803.
    8°. Biblithèque Américaine, par H. Ternaux. Paris, 1837. 8°.
    The principall navigations, voiages and discoveries of the
    English nation--by Richard Hakluyt, M.A. London, 1589. fol.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADOC--HIS EXPEDITION TO AMERICA.

Dr. Plott, in his account, and Lord Monboddo, Origin and Progress of Language, refer to the
Travels of Herbert (17th century), lib. iii. cap. ult., for a full history of this supposed
discovery. They derived it from Meredyth ap Rhys, Gatty Owen, and Cynfyn ap Gronow, A.D. 1478-80.
See also Atheneaum, Aug. 19. 1848.--Professor Elton's address at the meeting of the British
Association, on this and the earlier Icelandic discovery.

The belief in the story has been lately renewed. See Archæologia Cambrens, 4. 65., and L'Acadie,
by Sir J.E. Alexander, 1849. I will only observe that in Dr. Plott's account, Madoc was directed
by the best compass, and this in 1170! See M'Culloch's Dictionary of Commerce.

ANGLO-CAMBRIAN.

       *       *       *       *       * {58}

MADOC'S EXPEDITION.

A traveller informs us that Baron A. von Humboldt urges further search after this expedition
in the Welsh records. He thinks the passage is in the Examin Critique.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES

"CLOUDS" OR SHROUDS, IN SHAKESPEARE.

I quite agree with your correspondent D.N.R., that there never has been an editor of Shakespeare
capable of doing him full justice. I will go farther and say, that there never will be an editor
capable of doing him any thing like justice. I am the most "modern editor" of Shakespeare,
and I am the last to pretend that I am at all capable of doing him justice: I should be ashamed
of myself if I entertained a notion so ridiculously presumptuous. What I intended was to do
him all the justice in my power, and that I accomplished, however imperfectly. It struck me
that the best mode of attempting to do him any justice was to take the utmost pains to restore
his text to the state in which he left it; and give me leave, very humbly, to say that this
is the chief recommendation of the edition I superintended through the press, having collated
every line, syllable, and letter, with every known old copy. For this purpose I saw, consulted
and compared every quarto and every folio impression in the British Museum, at Oxford, at Cambridge,
in the libraries of the Duke of Devonshire and Lord Ellesmere, and in several private collections.
If my edition have no other merit, I venture to assert that it has this. It was a work of great
labour, but it was a work also of sincere love. It is my boast, and my only boast, that I have
restored the text of Shakespeare, as nearly as possible, to the integrity of the old copies.

When your correspondent complains, therefore, that in "Hen. IV. Part 2," Act III. sc. 1., in
the line,

  "With deafening clamours in the slippery clouds,"

the word shrouds is not substituted by editors of Shakespeare for "clouds," the answer is,
that not a single old copy warrants the merely fanciful emendation, and that it is not at all
required by the sense of the passage. In the 4to of 1600, and in the folio of 1623, the word
is "clouds;" and he must be a very bold editor (in my opinion little capable of doing justice
to any author), who would substitute his own imaginary improvement, for what we have every
reason to believe is the genuine text. Shrouds instead of "clouds" is a merely imaginary improvement,
supported by no authority, and (as, indeed, your correspondent shows) without the merit of
originality. I am for the text of Shakespeare as he left it, and as we find it in the most
authentic representations of his mind and meaning.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEDAL OF THE PRETENDER.

Sir,--Possibly some one of your literary correspondents, who may be versed in the, what D'Israeli
would call Secret History of the Jacobite Court, will endeavour to answer a "Query" relative
to the following rare medal:--

    Obv. A ship of war bearing the French flag; on the shore a
    figure in the dress of a Jesuit (supposed to represent Father
    Petre) seated astride of a Lobster, holding in his arms the
    young Prince of Wales, who has a little windmill on his head.
    Legend: "Allons mon Prince, nous sommes en bon chemin." In the
    exergue, "Jacc: Franç: Eduard, supposé. 20 Juin, 1688."

    Rev. A shield charged with a windmill, and surmounted by a
    Jesuit's bonnet; two rows of Beads or Rosaries, for an order or
    collar, within which we read "Honny soit qui non y pense;" a
    Lobster is suspended from the collar as a badge. Legend: "Les
    Armes et l'Ordre du pretendu Prince de Galles."

The difficulty in the above medal is the Lobster, though doubtless it had an allusion to some
topic or scandal of the day; whoever can elucidate it will render good service to Medallic
History, for hitherto it has baffled all commentators and collectors of medals. The windmill
(indicative of the poplar fable that the Prince was the son of a miller), and the Roman Catholic
symbols, are well understood.

There is an engraving of this medal in Van Loon's Histoire Metallique des Pays Bas. It is also
imperfectly engraved in Edwards' Medallic History of England, for the Jesuit is represented
kneeling on the shore, and Pinkerton, who furnished the text, calls it "a boy kneeling on the
shore." The medal is so rare that probably the artist could obtain only a rubbed or mutilated
impression to engrave from. My description is from a {59} specimen, in my own collection, as
fine as the day it was minted.

I may add that both Van Loon and Pinkerton have engraved the legend in the collar erroneously,
"honi soit qui bon y pense;" it should be "non."

B. NIGHTINGALE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROGER DE COVERLEY.

In the Spectator's description of Sir Roger de Coverley it is said, "that his great-grandfather
was the inventor of that famous country dance which is called after him." To the tune, as printed
in Chappell's English Melodies, is appended a note to the effect that it was called after "Roger
of Coverley" (Cowley, near Oxford).

Can any one inform me--

I. Where any notice of that Roger is to be found?

II. What is the etymon of "Cowley" (Temple Cowley and Church Cowley)?

III. If any notice of the tune is to be met with earlier than 1695, when it was printed by
H. Playford in his Dancing Master?

W.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF LANDED AND COMMERCIAL POLICY OF ENGLAND--HISTORY OF EDWARD II.

Who was the author of the two following works?--"Remarks upon the History of the Landed and
Commercial Policy of England, from the Invasion of the Romans to the Accession of James I.
2 vols. London: printed for E. Brooke, in Bell Yard, Temple Bar, MDCCLXXXV."

"The History of the Life, Reign, and Death of Edward II, King of England and Lord of Ireland,
with the Rise and Fall of his great Favourites, Gaveston and the Spencers. Written by E.F.
in the year 1627, and printed verbatim from the original. London: Printed by J.C. for Charles
Harper, at the Flower-de-Luce in Fleet St.; Samuel Crouch, at the Princes' Arms, in Pope's
head Alley in Cornhill; and Thomas Fox, at the Angel in Westminster Hall, 1680. (a portrait
of Ed. II.)" In the 1st vol. Harl. Miscell. it is said that the above was found with the papers
of the first Lord Falkland, and is attributed to him. My copy has Faulconbridge inserted in
MS. over the F., and a book plate of Earl Verney, motto "Prodesse quam conspici," with an escutcheon
of pretence.

ANGLO-CAMBRIAN

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REVEREND THOMAS LEMAN.

Mr. Editor,--Amongst the later authorities on subjects of British-Roman antiquity, the Rev.
Thomas Leman is constantly referred to, and in terms of great commendation.

Can you inform me whether that gentleman published any work or made an avowed communication
of any of his researches? His name is not found in the Index to the Archæologia.

Mr. Leman contributed largely to Mr. Hatcher's edition of Richard of Cirencester; but it is
one of the unsatisfactory circumstances of this work that these contributions, and whatever
may have been derived from the late Bishop of Cloyne, are merely acknowledged in general terms,
and are not distinguished as they occur.

I believe the MS. of the work was all in Mr. Hatcher's handwriting; some of your readers may
possibly have the means of knowing in what way he used the materials thus given, or to what
extent they were adapted or annotated by himself.

A.T. Coleman Street, Nov. 13.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE.

Sir,--Will any of your readers favour me with an account of the origin, as well as the date
of introduction, of the term "Gothic," as applied to the Pointed Styles of Ecclesiastical Architecture?

This Query is, of course, intimately connected with the much-disputed question of the origin
of the Pointed Style itself. But yet I imagine that the application of the term "Gothic" may
be found to be quite distinct, in its origin, from the first rise of the Pointed Arch. The
invention of the Pointed Arch cannot, surely, be attributed to the Goths; whence then the origin
and the meaning of the term Gothic?

R. VINCENT. Winchester, Nov. 12.

       *       *       *       *       *

KATHERINE PEGG.

Sir,--I think you may safely add Pepys's Diary to the list of books in illustration of which
you are willing to receive both Queries and Answers. There is not a passage in the Diary that
does not deserve to be understood. {60}

At vol. iv. p. 435. of the new edition is the following entry:--

    "7 May, 1668.

On this Lord Braybrooke has the following note:--

    "Pegg must have been Margaret Hughes, Prince Rupert's mistress,
    who had probably before that time lived with Sir Charles
    Sedley."

And then follows some account of Mrs. Hughes. But, query, was the "Pegg" of the Diary, Peg
Hughes? was she not rather as I belived her to have been, Katherine Pegg, by whom king Charles
II. had a son, Charles Fitz-Charles, created Earl of Plymouth, 29th July, 1675, died 1680?

Katherine Pegg has escaped Lord Braybrooke. Can any of your correspondents tell me who she was?

PETER CUNNINGHAM

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES IN MEDIÆVAL GEOGRAPHY.

What are the modern names of "Watewich," "Portum Pusillum," "Mare de Saham," "Perpessa," and
"Northmuth?" They are not to be found in Ferrario's Lexicon (a geographical dictionary so defective
that it has not even the Latin name for Aix-la-Chapelle), nor in Baudrand's Lexicon Geographicum
(a good dictionary for the mediæval Latin names in France, but not so perfect as the Index
Geographicum attached to the volumes of Bouquet), nor in Martiniere's Grande Dictionnarie Geographique,
nor in the Index to Wright's Courthand, a miserable and imperfect compilation.

    [These Queries are addressed to our correspondents in a very
    flattering review of "NOTES AND QUERIES" which appeared in the
    Morning Herald of the 16th of November, and we shall be very
    glad to receive such answers to all or any of them as it may be
    in the power of any of our friends to supply.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MYLES BLOOMFYLDE AND WILLIAM BLOMEFIELD'S METRICAL WRITINGS ON ALCHYMY.

Sir,--I have had intrusted to me a MS. metrical book on Alchymy, "written by me Myles Bloomefylde,
late of Bury Saynes Edmunde in ye Countye of Suffolke, Physytione;" but I can find no account
of the author. Worton, Ritson, and Tanner, mention a "William Blomefield, born at Bury. Bachelor
in Physic and a Monk of Bury," who wrote inter alia a metrical work called Bloomefield's Blossoms,
or the Camp of Philosophy.

Were there two metrical writers on alchymy of the name Bloomfield, temp. Eliz. and connected
with Bury?

BURIENSIS.

    [The following Note by Park, which first appeared in the Edition
    of Wharton published in 1840, iii., p. 83., coupled with the
    fact that William Blomefield is described as a Bachelor of
    Physic, would seem to show that there is but one writer, whose
    proper name is not William, but Myles: "From Ashmole's Notes on
    Theatrum Chemicum, 1652. p. 478., it seems doubtful whether his
    name was not Myles."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THYNNE'S COLLECTION OF CHANCELLORS.

Mr. Editor,--Can any of your correspondents inform me who was the "streict laced" gaoler of
the records, alluded to in the following passage in the Collection of Chancellors of England,
by Francis Thynne, inserted in Holinshed (ed. 1808) iv. 351.

    "John, Chancellor of England in the time of king Henrie the
    second, but what he was or in what yeare of king Henrie he lived
    I doo not know, and therefore leave it to him that both can and
    ought to give life to these persons whom he imprisoneth in the
    east castell of London; not doubting but in time he will doo his
    countrie good, and correct other men; though now he be so
    streict laced, as that he will not procure anie furtherance of
    other men's trauels."

[Greek: S.]

       *       *       *       *       *

COLD HARBOUR

Mr. Editor,--In examining the Ordnance Survey of Kent, I was quite surprised at the recurrence
of the name "Cold Harbour;" and again, in Wyld's Map of London in 1550.

I believe the point has been explained before, but perhaps some of your readers could give
some information as to its origin.

G.H.B.

Nov. 8. 1849.

    [The Society of Antiquaries was a good deal occupied, we
    scarcely know whether we may say interested, in the question
    raised by our correspondent, during the last session: and
    considerable {61} information upon the subject will be found in
    the published Proceedings of the Society, and in the last part
    of the Archæologia. We should like to know whether there are
    Cold Harbours in every county in England. Mr. Hartshorne
    published a long list in his Salopia Antiqua. If our
    correspondents can give us any addition to that list, they will
    be acceptable. We are aware that there are several in Kent.]

       *       *       *       *       *

STATISTICS OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.

Mr. Editor,--If any reader of your valuable and much-needed periodical can, through its medium,
supply me with the title of some recent and authentic work containing Statistics of the Roman
Catholic Church--e.g. the number of its members, or reputed members, in the different European
States; the number and temporalities of its sees, clergy, &c.--he will confer on me a great
obligation; one which it will be a pleasure to me to repay to some other "Querist," should
it lie within my power to supply any desired information, in my turn. Your faithful servant,

E.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

INCUMBENTS OF CHURCH LIVINGS.

Sir,--perhaps some of the readers of your useful publication could inform me where I can find
the name and birth-place of incumbents of church livings prior to 1680, and the patrons of
them. Your well-wisher,

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURSE OF SCOTLAND--WHY IS THE NINE OF DIAMONDS SO CALLED?

I shall be obliged to any of your correspondents who will inform me why the Nine of Diamonds
is called the curse of Scotland. I have heard two causes assigned. One, that the Duke of Cumberland,
on the field after the battle of Culloden, wrote upon the back of this card a very cruel and
inhuman order for the destruction of the persons and property of the rebels. This cannot be
true, for I have in my possession a print entitled "Britons Association against the Pope's
Bulls." This print is dated Oct. 21. 1745, some months previous to the battle of Culloden.

The other cause assigned is, that the nine lozenges with which the saltire is charged in the
armorial bearings of the Earl of Stair, are so arranged as to resemble the nine of diamonds,
which was called the curse of Scotland, from the active part taken by that Earl in promoting
the Union, which was most unpopular in Scotland. I cannot positively deny that the card in
question owes its evil name to this cause, but I am not aware that the Earl of Stair was so
conspicuously active as to occasion his being peculiarly selected as an object of popular aversion
on that account. He was indeed a commissioner for drawing up the articles of the union, and
he was sent ambassador to the court of Louis XIV. chiefly for the purpose of watching the proceedings
of the Jacobites; these circumstances may have added to the odium which attached to his name
from the part which was taken by his predecessor, who was Secretary for Scotland, and was charged
with having exceeded his authority in ordering the massacre of Glencoe.

EDW. HAWKINS.

Nov. 12. 1849

    [We would add to Mr. Hawkins's Query, another, viz.: What is the
    earliest known instance of the card in question being so
    designated? For it is clear, if such was the case before the
    Union, the second explanation is as little satisfactory as the
    first.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF BOOK SALES--CATALOGUES, ETC.

The collectors of British portraits--and there are doubtless many such among our readers--will
shortly have such an opportunity of enriching their portfolios as rarely presents itself. Messrs.
Sotheby and Co. commence, on the 3rd of December, the sale of the second portion of the important
and valuable stock of prints belonging to the well-known and eminent printsellers, Messrs.
W. and G. Smith, whose shop in Lisle Street, Leicester Square, has been for so many years the
favourite resort of all who were in search of the rare and curious in calcographic art.

33 ARCHIBALD EARL OF ARGYLL, by Loggan, first state, before the inscription round the oval,
VERY FINE AND RARE.

56 SIR WM. ASHURST, Lord Mayor of London, 1694, after Linton, by R. White, VERY FINE AND RARE. {62}

59 SLINGSBY BETHELL, ONE OF THE SHERIFFS OF LONDON, &c. 1680, whole length, W. Sherwin sculpt.,
sold by S. Lee, at the Feathers in Lumbert Street, VERY FINE AND EXTREMELY RARE.

130 SIR RICHARD RAINSFORD, Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, mezzotint after Claret,
R. Tompson excudit, MOST BRILLIANT AND VERY RARE.

160 JAMES THE FORTH, KING OF SCOTLAND, holding a flower in his hand, sold by Compton Holland,
EXTREMELY FINE AND VERY RARE.

176 FREDERICK KING OF BOHEMIA, half length, standing under an arch, four Latin lines beneath,
no engraver's name, VERY FINE AND EXTREMELY RARE.

184 CHARLES LEWIS, COUNT PALATINE OF THE RHINE, son of the King of Bohemia, on horseback, with
a view of London beyond him; circles containing the dates of the births of his brothers and
sisters at the top on the left, eight English lines beneath: a most interesting and rare print,
BRILLIANT IMPRESSION, AND IN THE MOST PERFECT CONDITION.

328 SIR JOHN FENWICK, of Fenwick Castle, in the Country of Northumberland, executed in 1696,
on suspicion of being engaged in a plot to assassinate William III., after Wissing, by White,
VERY FINE AND EXTREMELY RARE.

244 THOMAS CARTWRIGHT, Bishop of Chester, after Soust, by Becket, VERY FINE AND RARE.

262 JOHN DOLBEN, BISHOP OF ROCHESTER, JOHN FELL, BISHOP OF OXFORD, AND DR. RICHARD ALLESTRY,
called by Charles II. CHIPLEY, CHOPLEY, CHEPLEY, from the picture in Christchurch Hall, by
Sir P. Lely, D. Loggan excudit, BRILLIANT PROOF, AND EXTREMELY RARE.

304 SIR HENRY CHAUNCEY, the historian of Hertfordshire, by J. Suvage, fine and rare.

365 GEORGE GORDAN, MARQUIS OF HUSTLEY, by Sauvè, FINE AND EXTREMELY RARE.

374 ROBERT SIDNEY, EARL OF LEICESTER, by Simon Passe, sold by Sudbury and Humble, VERY FINE
AND RARE.

375 ROBERT BERTIE, EARL OF LINDSEY, after Geldorp, by Voerst, BRILLIANT AND VERY RARE.

558 ISAAC MILERS, by Vertue, first state, before the alterations of the arms and inscription,
very fine and rare; and the same, in the ordinary state.

661 THOMAS THYNN OF LONG LEATE, murdered in Pall Mall 1682, after Kneller, by White, VERY FINE
AND RARE.

662 THOMAS THYNN, mezzotint after Lely, sold by A. Browne, VERY FINE AND RARE.

997 LOUISE DUCHESS OF PORTSMOUTH, with her son as Cupid, after Gascar, by Baudet, VERY FINE
AND EXTREMELY RARE, from Mr. Ord's collection, at the sale of which it produced 8£. 12s. 6d.

1000 LOUISE DUCHESS OF PORTSMOUTH, reclining on a couch, oblong mezzotint, FINE PROOF BEFORE
AND LETTERS, AND EXTREMELY RARE.

1048 Hobson and the Cambridge Carrier, Author of "Hobson's Choice," by J. Payne, two states,
very fine and rare.

1201 JOHN FREDERICK, Elector of Saxony, playing at chess with Ernest Duke of Brunswick, at
the moment when Charles V. sent the warrant for his execution, A MOST CURIOUS AND INTERESTING
HISTORICAL PRINT, AND EXTREMELY RARE.

1209 ERASMUS, sitting with a book before him, by F. HOGENBERG, H. COCK excudebat, 1555, VERY
FINE AND RARE, &C.

We have also received:--

    "A Catalogue of English and Foreign Theology, including some of
    the rarest works of our early English Divines; nearly a complete
    series of the Fathers of the Church; the various Councils and
    most important Ecclesiastical Historians, Liturgical writers,
    &c." issued by Leslie, of 58. Great Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn,
    which is one which will greatly interest all readers of the
    peculiar class to whom it is more particularly addressed.

The same may be said of the excellent "Catalogue of Old and New Books (Part CIV)," just delivered
by Petheramm of 94. High Holborn: which, in addition to theological works, exhibits many valuable
productions in historical and general literature.

Bernard Quarritch's "Catalogue of Foreign Books and Classics, selling at 16. Castle Street,
Leicester Square," well deserves the attention of philologists. It is rich, not only in works
illustrative of the Oriental languages and literature, but also in those of Germany and Scandinavia.
Indeed, it is one which should be looked into by all students of foreign literature.

Some curious articles, more especially in early Italian and French literature, and on the subject
of Alchymy, Astrology, Magic, &c., will be found in a "Catalogue of Interesting and Rare Books
on sale, by George Bumstead, No. 205. High Holborn."

William Nield, 46. Burlington Arcade is, we believe a new candidate for the favours of the
purchasers of old books. His first Catalogue contains some curious Articles in the departments
of Demonology and Witchcraft; a few varieties belonging to the "Marprelate" class such as "Penri's
Exhortation;" and a fine collection of Classical Music.

Lastly, let us mention what cannot but interest many reader of "NOTES AND QUERIES," that Mr.
Lumley, of 56. Chancery Lane, having purchased the stock of Society of Antiquaries' publications
has divided the volumes of the Archælogia, and has just put forth a Catalogue of the separate
papers, which are for sale, and of which he says very truly, "their value cannot be disputed,"
and they are "now for the first time offered thus to the Public."

       *       *       *       *       * {63}

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

BURNEY'S TREATISE ON MUSIC (not his History).

GRAY'S ELEGY (PROFESSOR YOUNG OF GLASGOW'S CRITISCISM OF).

LIFE OF HON. ROBERT PRICE, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. London. 1734.

FLORES BERNARDI.

REGNORUM, PROVINCIARUM, CIVITATUMQUE NOMINA LATINA (CORONELLI, POTIUS ALPHONSUS LASOR A VAREA).
Fol. 2 Vols. Venet. 1716. Or the 2nd Vol. only.

BUDDEN'S DISCOURSE FOR PARENTS' HONOUR AND AUTHORITIE. 8vo. 1666.

PASSIONAEL EPTE DAT LEVENT DER HELLIG N. Folio. Basil. MDXXII.

Odd Volumes

SOUTHEY'S COWPER. Vols. X. XII. XIII. XIV.

CAIRN'S EDITION OF GOLDSMITH'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edinburgh. 1801. Vol. III.

       *       *       *       *       *

Surely MELANION is too hard upon our correspondents and too exigeant towards ourselves. He
would place us in a singular position. He should consider that we have not opened lists for
all comers to tilt against each other. We invite litterateurs to a re-union, in which they
may give and receive mutual help and aid; but, in order to do so, they must tolerate each others'
little peculiarities, and not espy offence in them.

The Index so kindly offered by MELANION is declined with many thanks.

Answers to several outstanding Queries in our next.

LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. All are drawn with that distinctness which makes them
available for the Antiquarian, for the Artist who is studying Costume, and for the study of
Decorative Art."--Spectator.

8vo. cloth, price 12s., with a Coloured Plate of King Alfred's Jewel.

THE LIFE and TIMES of ALFRED the GREAT. By the Rev. J.A. GILES, D.C.L., late Fellow of Corpus
Christi College, Oxford, Author of "The History of the Ancient Britons," &c.

"A useful volume, as collecting into one view all the facts that are known respecting the Life
of Alfred, exhibiting the various opinions on disputed points, and containing a very fair,
sensible summing up by the biographer."--Spectator.

Two vols., 8vo, 30s.

HISTORY of the ANCIENT BRITONS, from the Earliest Period to the Invasion of the Saxons Compiled
from the Original Authorities. By the Rev. J.A. GILES, D.C.L., late Fellow of C.C.C., Oxford.

"The longer and more important passages are full and clear in matter, always well presented,
often in a masterly mode.... Dr. Giles is in thorough possession of his materials and of his
intention, which produces the clearness that arises from mastery: and he exhibits the same
general bon hommie and chronicler disposition for minute and picturesque narrative which we
noted in his life of Becket, with more of a critical spirit."--Spectator.

8vo. price 1s. 6d., with two Plates.

A DESCRIPTION OF THE ROMAN THEATRE lately discovered at Verulam. By R. GROVE LOWE, Esq. Read
at the meeting of the St. Alban's Architectural Society, April 12, 1848.

8vo. sewed 1s.

ON SOME ROMAN SEPULCHRAL REMAINS discovered in the Churchyard of St. Stephen, near St. Alban's,
Herts, A.D. 1848. Read at a meeting of the St. Alban's Architectural Society, June 20, 1848.
By MATTHEW HOLBECHE BLOXAM. Published for the Society by GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street; WILLIAM
LANGLEY, St. Alban's; and JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford and London.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARISTOTLE'S ETHICS. Literally translated into English. 8vo. bds. 5s.; published at 10s. 6d.
Oxford, 1846.

ANCIENT GREECE. The History of the Manners and Customs of Ancient Greece. By J.A. ST. JOHN,
3 vols. 8vo. boards, 15s.; published at 1l. 11s. 6d. 1842.

TRAVELS IN THE MOREA. By W.M. LEAKE, F.R.S., with a Map and Plates. 3 vols. 8vo. bds. 18s.;
published at 2l. 5s. 1830.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA, Las Comedias de. Por J.J. KEIL. Portrait, 4 vols, royal 8vo. sewed, 1l.
5s. Leipsique, 1828.

EDWARD STIBBS, 331. Strand, where also can be had on application his Catalogues of Second Hand
Books in all languages and subjects, viz. Classics and Philology, Divinity, English and General
Literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRACTS FOR THE CHRISTIAN SEASONS. The First Part of a New Series of Tracts for the Christian
Seasons will be published on Saturday, December 1, containing a Tract for each Sunday in Advent.
These Tracts illustrate the Teaching of the Church, follow the order of the Christian Year,
and neither exceed nor fall short of the Teaching of the Prayer Book.

The First Series is now complete in 4 vols. fcap. 8vo. and may be ordered of all booksellers
in the country. Oxford: JOHN HENRY PARKER; and 337. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICKERING'S LIBRARY EDITIONS.

BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS, 8vo. 10s. 6d.

GEORGE HERBERT'S COMPLETE WORKS. 2 vols. 8vo.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS OF REFERENCE

1. BIBLIOTHECA AUCTORUM CLASSICORUM. A complete Catalog of Classics. 8vo., 8s.

2. BIBLIOTHECA ZOOLOGICA ET PALÆONTOLOGICA, 8vo. 1845. 12s.

3. BIBLIOTHECA MEDICO-CHIRURGICA. 8vo. 1847. 7s. 6d.

4. BIBLIOGRAPHIE BIOGRAPHIQUE. A reference to 27,000 works on Biography. 4to. boards. 2l. 10s.

WILLIAMS and NORGATE will be happy to ANSWER ALL QUERIES respecting German Books, and things
relating thereunto, as far as their experience and extensive works of reference enable them to do.

WILLIAMS and NORGATE, 14. Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

