After fifteen hundred years of victories, the revolution of the fourth century, that of the
kings and nobles against the people, was, in its turn, vanquished by the revolution of the
nineteenth century, that of the people against the nobles and kings. Napoleon was born of this
conflagration; he obtained such complete power over it, that it seemed as if that great convulsion
had only been that of the bringing into the world one man. He commanded the Revolution as if
he had been the genius of that terrible element. At his voice she became tranquil. Ashamed
of her excesses, she admired herself in him, and precipitating herself into his glory, she
had united Europe under his sceptre, and obedient Europe rose at his call to drive back Russia
within her ancient limits. It seemed as if the North was in his turn about to be vanquished,
even among his own ices.

And yet this great man, with these great circumstances in his favour, could not subdue nature!
In this powerful effort to re-ascend that rapid declivity, so many forces failed him! After
reaching these icy regions of Europe, he was precipitated from their very summit. The North,
victorious over the South in her defensive war, as she had been in the middle ages in her offensive
one, now believes herself invulnerable and irresistible.

Comrades, believe it not! Ye might have triumphed over that soil and these spaces, that climate,
and that rough and gigantic nature, as ye had conquered its soldiers.

But some errors were punished by great calamities! I have related both the one and the other.
On that ocean of evils I have erected a melancholy beacon of gloomy and blood-red light; and
if my feeble hand has been insufficient for the painful task, at least I have exhibited the
floating wrecks, in order that those who come after us may see the peril and avoid it.

Comrades, my task is finished; it is now for you to bear your testimony to the truth of the
picture. Its colours will no doubt appear pale to your eyes and to your hearts, which are still
full of these great recollections. But which of you is ignorant that an action is always more
eloquent than its description; and that if great historians are produced by great men, the
first are still more rare than the last?

Volume I

  London: Printed by Thomas Davison,
  Whitefriars.

Volume II

  London: Printed by C. Roworth.
  Bell yard, Temple Bar.

This was a book of two volumes, written by a Frenchman and printed in English by different
printers. As a result there was a wide variation in spelling.

Original spelling was retained except where noted.

Thus corses for corpses, tressels for trestles, Dantzic for Danzig.

Table of Contents, Volume II, Book IX, Chapter II, Jaroslavetz changed to Yaroslawetz to conform
to text. Also for Chapters IV and V of same.

Table of Contents, Winkowo changed to Vinkowo to conform to much of text.

Table of Contents, Doubrowna changed to Dombrowna.

The use of Chap. and Chapter was retained reflecting the original work.

Book II. Chap. II., Arriere changed to Arrière.

Book V. Chap. I, Dünaburg changed to Dünabourg to match rest of Volume.

Book VIII. Chapter XI, Francaise changed to Française.

Book X. Chapter III, Karsnoë changed to Krasnoë.

One instance each of Yuknow, Yuknof and Yucknow appears in the text as does Vilkomir/Wilkomer
and Doukhowtchina/Dukhowtchina.

Differences that were retained between Volumes I and II:
  Volume I              Volume II
  Saint-Cyr             Saint Cyr(also in Table of Contents for Vol. II)
  Oudinot               Oudinôt
  journeys              journies
  Dubrowna              Dombrowna
  Dünabourg             Dünaburg