SECTION V. The great facade which fronts the spectator looks southward. Hence the two traceried
windows lower than the rest, and to the right of the spectator, may be conveniently distinguished
as the "Eastern Windows." There are two others like them, filled with tracery, and at the same
level, which look upon the narrow canal between the Ponte della Paglia and the Bridge of Sighs:
these we may conveniently call the "Canal Windows." The reader will observe a vertical line
in this dark side of the palace, separating its nearer and plainer wall from a long four-storied
range of rich architecture. This more distant range is entirely Renaissance: its extremity
is not indicated, because I have no accurate sketch of the small buildings and bridges beyond
it, and we shall have nothing whatever to do with this part of the palace in our present inquiry.
The nearer and undecorated wall is part of the older palace, though much defaced by modern
opening of common windows, refittings of the brickwork, etc.

SECTION VI. It will be observed that the facade is composed of a smooth mass of wall, sustained
on two tiers of pillars, one above the other. The manner in which these support the whole fabric
will be understood at once by the rough section, Fig. III., which is supposed to be taken right
through the palace to the interior court, from near the middle of the Sea Facade. Here a and
d are the rows of shafts, both in the inner court and on the Facade, which carry the main walls;
b, c are solid walls variously strengthened with pilasters. A, B, C are the three stories of
the interior of the palace.

The reader sees that it is impossible for any plan to be more simple, and that if the inner
floors and walls of the stories A, B were removed, there would be left merely the form of a
basilica,--two high walls, carried on ranges of shafts, and roofed by a low gable.

The stories A, B are entirely modernized, and divided into confused ranges of small apartments,
among which what vestiges remain of ancient masonry are entirely undecipherable, except by
investigations such as I have had neither the time nor, as in most cases they would involve
the removal of modern plastering, the opportunity, to make. With the subdivisions of this story,
therefore, I shall not trouble the reader; but those of the great upper story, C, are highly
important.

SECTION VII. In the bird's-eye view above, Fig. II., it will be noticed that the two windows
on the right are lower than the other four of the facade. In this arrangement there is one
of the most remarkable instances I know of the daring sacrifice of symmetry to convenience,
which was noticed in Chap. VII. as one of the chief noblenesses of the Gothic schools.

The part of the palace in which the two lower windows occur, we shall find, was first built,
and arranged in four stories in order to obtain the necessary number of apartments. Owing to
circumstances, of which we shall presently give an account, it became necessary, in the beginning
of the fourteenth century, to provide another large and magnificent chamber for the meeting
of the senate. That chamber was added at the side of the older building; but, as only one room
was wanted, there was no need to divide the added portion into two stories. The entire height
was given to the single chamber, being indeed not too great for just harmony with its enormous
length and breadth. And then came the question how to place the windows, whether on a line
with the two others, or above them.

The ceiling of the new room was to be adorned by the paintings of the best masters in Venice,
and it became of great importance to raise the light near that gorgeous roof, as well as to
keep the tone of illumination in the Council Chamber serene; and therefore to introduce light
rather in simple masses than in many broken streams. A modern architect, terrified at the idea
of violating external symmetry, would have sacrificed both the pictures and the peace of the
council. He would have placed the larger windows at the same level with the other two, and
have introduced above them smaller windows, like those of the upper story in the older building,
as if that upper story had been continued along the facade. But the old Venetian thought of
the honor of the paintings, and the comfort of the senate, before his own reputation. He unhesitatingly
raised the large windows to their proper position with reference to the interior of the chamber,
and suffered the external appearance to take care of itself. And I believe the whole pile rather
gains than loses in effect by the variation thus obtained in the spaces of wall above and below
the windows.

SECTION VIII. On the party wall, between the second and third windows, which faces the eastern
extremity of the Great Council Chamber, is painted the Paradise of Tintoret; and this wall
will therefore be hereafter called the "Wall of the Paradise."

In nearly the centre of the Sea Facade, and between the first and second windows of the Great
Council Chamber, is a large window to the ground, opening on a balcony, which is one of the
chief ornaments of the palace, and will be called in future the "Sea Balcony."

The facade which looks on the Piazzetta is very nearly like this to the Sea, but the greater
part of it was built in the fifteenth century, when people had become studious of their symmetries.
Its side windows are all on the same level. Two light the west end of the Great Council Chamber,
one lights a small room anciently called the Quarantia Civil Nuova; the other three, and the
central one, with a balcony like that to the Sea, light another large chamber, called Sala
del Scrutinio, or "Hall of Enquiry," which extends to the extremity of the palace above the
Porta della Carta.

SECTION IX. The reader is now well enough acquainted with the topography of the existing building,
to be able to follow the accounts of its history.

We have seen above, that there were three principal styles of Venetian architecture; Byzantine,
Gothic, and Renaissance.

The Ducal Palace, which was the great work of Venice, was built successively in the three styles.
There was a Byzantine Ducal Palace, a Gothic Ducal Palace, and a Renaissance Ducal Palace.
The second superseded the first totally; a few stones of it (if indeed so much) are all that
is left. But the third superseded the second in part only, and the existing building is formed
by the union of the two.

We shall review the history of each in succession. [Footnote: The reader
will find it convenient to note the following editions of the printed
books which have been principally consulted in the following inquiry. The
numbers of the manuscripts referred to in the Marcian Library are given
with the quotations.
  Sansovino. Venetia Descritta. 410, Venice, 1663.
  Sansovino. Lettera intorno al Palazzo Ducale, 8vo, Venice, 1829.
  Temanza. Antica Pianta di Venezia, with text. Venice, 1780.
  Cadorin. Pareri di XV. Architetti. Svo, Venice,1838.
  Filiasi. Memorie storiche. 8vo, Padua, 1811.
  Bettio. Lettera discorsiva del Palazzo Ducale, 8vo, Venice, 1837.
  Selvatico. Architettura di Venezia. 8vo, Venice, 1847.]

1st. The BYZANTINE PALACE.

In the year of the death of Charlemagne, 813, the Venetians determined to make the island of
Rialto the seat of the government and capital of their state. [Footnote: The year commonly
given is 810, as in the Savina Chronicle (Cod. Marcianus), p. 13. "Del 810 fece principiar
el pallazzo Ducal nel luogo ditto Brucio in confin di S. Moise, et fece riedificar la isola
di Eraclia." The Sagornin Chronicle gives 804; and Filiasi, vol. vi. chap. I, corrects this
date to 813.] Their Doge, Angelo or Agnello Participazio, instantly took vigorous means for
the enlargement of the small group of buildings which were to be the nucleus of the future
Venice. He appointed persons to superintend the raising of the banks of sand, so as to form
more secure foundations, and to build wooden bridges over the canals. For the offices of religion,
he built the Church of St. Mark; and on, or near, the spot where the Ducal Palace now stands,
he built a palace for the administration of the government. [Footnote: "Amplio la citta, fornilla
di casamenti, e per il culto d' Iddio e l' amministrazione della giustizia eresse la capella
di S. Marco, e il palazzo di sua residenza."--Pareri, p. 120. Observe, that piety towards God,
and justice towards man, have been at least the nominal purposes of every act and institution
of ancient Venice. Compare also Temanza, p. 24. "Quello che abbiamo di certo si e che il suddetto
Agnello lo incommincio da fondamenti, e cosi pure la capella ducale di S. Marco."]

The history of the Ducal Palace therefore begins with the birth of Venice, and to what remains
of it, at this day, is entrusted the last representation of her power.

SECTION X. Of the exact position and form of this palace of Participazio little is ascertained.
Sansovino says that it was "built near the Ponte della Paglia, and answeringly on the Grand
Canal," towards San Giorgio; that is to say, in the place now occupied by the Sea Facade; but
this was merely the popular report of his day. [Footnote: What I call the Sea, was called "the
Grand Canal" by the Venetians, as well as the great water street of the city; but I prefer
calling it "the Sea," in order to distinguish between that street and the broad water in front
of the Ducal Palace, which, interrupted only by the island of San Giorgio, stretches for many
miles to the south, and for more than two to the boundary of the Lido. It was the deeper channel,
just in front of the Ducal Palace, continuing the line of the great water street itself which
the Venetians spoke of as "the Grand Canal." The words of Sansovino are: "Fu cominciato dove
si vede, vicino al ponte della paglia, et rispondente sul canal grande." Filiasi says simply:
"The palace was built where it now is." "Il palazio fu fatto dove ora pure esiste."--Vol. iii.
chap. 27. The Savina Chronicle, already quoted, says: "in the place called the Bruolo (or Broglio),
that is to say on the Piazzetta."]

We know, however, positively, that it was somewhere upon the site of the existing palace; and
that it had an important front towards the Piazzetta, with which, as we shall see hereafter,
the present palace at one period was incorporated. We know, also, that it was a pile of some
magnificence, from the account given by Sagornino of the visit paid by the Emperor Otho the
Great, to the Doge Pietro Orseolo II. The chronicler says that the Emperor "beheld carefully
all the beauty of the palace;" [Footnote: "Omni decoritate illius perlustrata."--Sagornino,
quoted by Cadorin and Temanza.] and the Venetian historians express pride in the buildings
being worthy of an emperor's examination. This was after the palace had been much injured by
fire in the revolt against Candiano IV., [Footnote: There is an interesting account of this
revolt in Monaci, p. 68. Some historians speak of the palace as having been destroyed entirely;
but, that it did not even need important restorations, appears from Sagornino's expression,
quoted by Cadorin and Temanza. Speaking of the Doge Participazio, he says: "Qui Palatii hucusque
manentis fuerit fabricator." The reparations of the palace are usually attributed to the successor
of Candiano, Pietro Orseolo I.; but the legend, under the picture of that Doge in the Council
Chamber, speaks only of his rebuilding St. Mark's, and "performing many miracles." His whole
mind seems to have been occupied with ecclesiastical affairs; and his piety was finally manifested
in a way somewhat startling to the state, by absconding with a French priest to St. Michael's
in Gascony, and there becoming a monk. What repairs, therefore, were necessary to the Ducal
Palace, were left to be undertaken by his son, Orseolo II., above named.] and just repaired,
and richly adorned by Orseolo himself, who is spoken of by Sagornino as having also "adorned
the chapel of the Ducal Palace" (St. Mark's) with ornaments of marble and gold. [Footnote:
"Quam non modo marmoreo, verum aureo compsit ornamento."--Temanza] There can be no doubt whatever
that the palace at this period resembled and impressed the other Byzantine edifices of the
city, such as the Fondaco de Turchi, &c., whose remains have been already described; and that,
like them, it was covered with sculpture, and richly adorned with gold and color.

SECTION XI. In the year 1106, it was for the second time injured by fire, [Footnote: "L'anno
1106, uscito fuoco d'una casa privata, arse parte del palazzo."--Sansovino. Of the beneficial
effect of these fires, vide Cadorin.] but repaired before 1116, when it received another emperor,
Henry V. (of Germany), and was again honored by imperial praise. [Footnote: "Urbis situm, aedificiorum
decorem, et regiminis sequitatem multipliciter commendavit."--Cronaca Dandolo, quoted by Cadorin.]

Between 1173 and the close of the century, it seems to have been again repaired and much enlarged
by the Doge Sebastian Ziani. Sansovino says that this Doge not only repaired it, but "enlarged
it in every direction;" [Footnote: "Non solamente rinovo il palazzo, ma lo aggrandi per ogni
verso."--Sansovino. Zanotto quotes the Altinat Chronicle for account of these repairs.] and,
after this enlargement, the palace seems to have remained untouched for a hundred years, until,
in the commencement of the fourteenth century, the works of the Gothic Palace were begun. As,
therefore, the old Byzantine building was, at the time when those works first interfered with
it, in the form given to it by Ziani, I shall hereafter always speak of it as the Ziani Palace;
and this the rather, because the only chronicler whose words are perfectly clear respecting
the existence of part of this palace so late as the year 1422, speaks of it as built by Ziani.
The old "palace of which half remains to this day, was built, as we now see it, by Sebastian
Ziani." [Footnote: "El palazzo che anco di mezzo se vede vecchio, per M. Sebastian Ziani fu
fatto compir, come el se vede."--Chronicle of Pietro Dolfino, Cod. Ven. p. 47. This Chronicle
is spoken of by Sansovino as "molto particolare, e distinta."--Sansovino, Venezia descritta,
p. 593.--It terminates in the year 1422.]

So far, then, of the Byzantine Palace.

SECTION XII. 2nd. The GOTHIC PALACE. The reader, doubtless, recollects that the important change
in the Venetian government which gave stability to the aristocratic power took place about
the year 1297, [Footnote: See Vol. I. Appendix 3, Stones of Venice.] under the Doge Pietro
Gradenigo, a man thus characterized by Sansovino:--"A prompt and prudent man, of unconquerable
determination and great eloquence, who laid, so to speak, the foundations of the eternity of
this republic, by the admirable regulations which he introduced into the government."

We may now, with some reason, doubt of their admirableness; but their importance, and the vigorous
will and intellect of the Doge, are not to be disputed. Venice was in the zenith of her strength,
and the heroism of her citizens was displaying itself in every quarter of the world. [Footnote:
Vide Sansovino's enumeration of those who flourished in the reign of Gradenigo, p. 564.] The
acquiescence in the secure establishment of the aristocratic power was an expression, by the
people, of respect for the families which had been chiefly instrumental in raising the commonwealth
to such a height of prosperity.

The Serrar del Consiglio fixed the numbers of the Senate within certain limits, and it conferred
upon them a dignity greater than they had ever before possessed. It was natural that the alteration
in the character of the assembly should be attended by some change in the size, arrangement,
or decoration of the chamber in which they sat.

We accordingly find it recorded by Sansovino, that "in 1301 another saloon was begun on the
Rio del Palazzo, under the Doge Gradenigo, and finished in 1309, in which year the Grand Council
first sat in it." [Footnote: Sansovino, 324, I.] In the first year, therefore, of the fourteenth
century, the Gothic Ducal Palace of Venice was begun; and as the Byzantine Palace was, in its
foundation, coeval with that of the state, so the Gothic Palace was, in its foundation, coeval
with that of the aristocratic power. Considered as the principal representation of the Venetian
school of architecture, the Ducal Palace is the Parthenon of Venice, and Gradenigo its Pericles.

SECTION XIII. Sansovino, with a caution very frequent among Venetian historians, when alluding
to events connected with the Serrar del Consiglio, does not specially mention the cause for
the requirement of the new chamber; but the Sivos Chronicle is a little more distinct in expression.
"In 1301, it was determined to build a great saloon for the assembling of the Great Council,
and the room was built which is now called the Sala del Scrutinio." [Footnote: "1301 fu presa
parte di fare una sala grande per la riduzione del gran consiglio, e fu fatta quella che ora
si chiama dello Scrutinio."--Cronaca Sivos, quoted by Cadorin. There is another most interesting
entry in the Chronicle of Magno, relating to this event; but the passage is so ill written,
that I am not sure if I have deciphered it correctly:--"Del 1301 fu preso de fabrichar la sala
fo ruina e fu fata (fatta) quella se adoperava a far e pregadi e fu adopera per far el Gran
Consegio fin 1423, che fu anni 122." This last sentence, which is of great importance, is luckily
unmistakable:--"The room was used for the meetings of the Great Council until 1423, that is
to say, for 122 years."--Cod. Ven. tom. i. p. 126. The Chronicle extends from 1253 to 1454.

Abstract 1301 to 1309; Gradenigo's room--1340-42, page 295-1419. New proposals, p. 298.] Now,
that is to say, at the time when the Sivos Chronicle was written; the room has long ago been
destroyed, and its name given to another chamber on the opposite side of the palace: but I
wish the reader to remember the date 1301, as marking the commencement of a great architectural
epoch, in which took place the first appliance of the energy of the aristocratic power, and
of the Gothic style, to the works of the Ducal Palace. The operations then begun were continued,
with hardly an interruption, during the whole period of the prosperity of Venice. We shall
see the new buildings consume, and take the place of, the Ziani Palace, piece by piece: and
when the Ziani Palace was destroyed, they fed upon themselves; being continued round the square,
until, in the sixteenth century, they reached the point where they had been begun in the fourteenth,
and pursued the track they had then followed some distance beyond the junction; destroying
or hiding their own commencement, as the serpent, which is the type of eternity, conceals its
tail in its jaws.

SECTION XIV. We cannot, therefore, see the extremity, wherein lay the sting and force of the
whole creature,--the chamber, namely, built by the Doge Gradenigo; but the reader must keep
that commencement and the date of it carefully in his mind. The body of the Palace Serpent
will soon become visible to us.

