The text is based on the 1865 EETS edition of Thynne’s Animadversions. Two purely typographic
features have been adopted from the 1876 Chaucer Society re-edition of the same MS. Passages
printed in brackets in 1865 have been changed to 1876’s parentheses; conversely, letters and
whole words supplied by the editor are shown in brackets, reserving italics for expanded abbreviations.
A few apparent errors were corrected from the 1876 text. Some other differences between the
two editions are noted at the end of the e-text.

Italicized letters within a word are shown in {braces}. Other italics are shown conventionally
with lines. Superscripts are shown with carets ^.

The Sidenotes have been duplicated at the beginning of the text to act as a table of contents.]

   Animaduersions

        uppon

  Chaucer’s Workes.

  [Sidenotes:
    The author is vexed that Master Speight did not consult him on
      his new edition of Chaucer.
    Also vexed at a side blow at his father’s edition, and justifies
      him as editor.
    His father’s collection of MS. Chaucers and their curiosity.
    The Pilgrime’s Tale telling forth the evil lives of churchmen.
    William Thynne in favour with Henry VIII., who promiseth to
      countenance him.
    The promise broken through the power of Wolsey.
    The most part of Colin Clout written at William Thynne’s house
      at Erith.
    Chaucer’s works like to be destroyed by parliament.
    Reasons why the Pilgrime’s Tale should be Chaucer’s.
    How William Thynne’s collection of Chaucer’s MS. was dispersed
      abroad.
    He differeth from Master Speight on Chaucer’s family.
    Chausier, one who hoseth or shueth a man.
    Chaucer his arms injustly undervalued.
    Philippa of Henault came not over with Prince Edward.
    Bartholomew de Burgersh sent for Philippa of Henault.
    The conjecture that Chaucer’s ancestors were merchants, of no
      valydytye.
    Master Speight misquoteth Gower.
    Chaucer submitteth his works to Gower, not Gower to Chaucer.
    Gower the poet was not of the Gowers (or Gores) of Stittenham.
    Gower’s chaplette for knighthood not for poetry.
    The chaplette of roses a peculiar ornament of honour.
    The knighting of Erle Mortone of Normandye.
    Chaucer being a grave man unlikely to beat a Franciscan Fryer but?
    The lawyers not in the temple till the latter part of Edward III.
    Speight knoweth not the name of Chaucer’s wife, nor doth Thynne.
    The children of John of Gaunt born pre-nupt, and legytymated by
      the Pope and the Parliament.
    Chaucer’s children and their advauncement and of the Burgershes.
    Serlo de Burgo uncle and not brother to Eustace.
    Jane of Navarre maryed to Henry IV., in the 5th year of his reign.
    The de la Pools gained advancement by lending the King money, but
      William was not the first that did so.
    The clergy offended that the temporal men were found as wise as
      themselves.
    A merchant by Attorney is no true merchant.
    Alice, the wife of Richard Neville, was daughter of Thomas
      Montacute.
    He correcteth Master Speight his dates and history of printing.
    The Romante of the Rose began by Guillm̄ de Loris, and finished
      by John de la Meune.
    Why the dream of Chaucer cannot be the book of the Duchess.
    John of Gaunt, his incontinency.
    Doubteth master Speight’s ability in the exposition of old words,
      but commendeth his diligence and knowledge.
    Aketon or Slevelesse jacket of plate for the war.
    A besant is a besant, and not a duckett.
    Fermentacione is fermentacione, and not dawbing even
      metaphorically.
    Orfrayes not Goldsmith’s work, but frysed cloth of gold,
      a manufacture peculiar to the English.
    Oundye and Crispe meaneth wavy like water.
    Resager is ratsbane or arsenic.
    Begyns are nuns, though it cometh to mean superstitious and
      hypocritical women from their nature.
    Citrinatione or perfect digestion.
    Forage is old and hard provision made for horses and cattle in
      winter, or metaphorically, or to help out the ryme it may mean
      grass.
    Heroner is a long-winged hawk for the heron.
    The Hyppe is the berye of the sweet bryer or eglantine.
    Nowell meaneth more than Christmas.
    Porpherye is a peculiar marble, not marble in common.
    Sendale, a sylke stuffe.
    The trepegett is not the battering-ram, but an engine to cast
      stones.
    Wiuer or Wyvern, a serpent like unto a dragon.
    Autenticke meaneth a thing of auctoritye, not of antiquitye.
    Abandone is not liberty though Hollyband sayeth so.
    Of the Vernacle.
    Master Thynne would read Campaneus for Capaneus, and giveth
      reasons.
    Liketh the reading of Eros, but preferreth that of Heros,
      and giveth reasons.
    Of florins and their name from the Florentines.
    Sterling money taketh its name from the Esterlings.
    King John of France, his ransom of three millions of florens.
    Of the oken garland of Emelye.
    Eyther for euerye, an overnice correction.
    The intellect of Arcite had not wholly gone, or he would not have
      known Emelye.
    Straught, a better word than haughte.
    Visage for vassalage, an impertinent correction.
    Leefe for lothe, a nedeless correction.
    It is more likely that Absolon knocked than that he coughed at
      the window.
    Surrye or Russye, indifferent which.
    Cambuscan is Caius canne.
    “That may not saye naye,” better than “there may no wighte say
      naye.”
    Theophraste, not Paraphraste.
    The wife of Bath’s Prologue taken from the author of Policraticon.
    Country, not Couentry.
    Maketh, not waketh.
    Hugh of Lincoln.
    “Where the sunne is in his ascensione,” a good reading.
    Kenelm slain by Queen Drida.
    Master Speight mistaketh his almanack.
    The degrees of the signe are misreckoned, not the signe itself.
    Mereturicke is a corruption of Merecenrycke, or the kingdom of
      Mercia.
    Pilloures of silver borne before Cardinalls.
    Liketh best the old reading of “change of many manner of meates.”
    And also the old reading of “myters” more than one or two for
      the sake of the meter.
    The lordes sonne of Windsore is in the French Romant of the rose,
      but is there spelled Guindesores.
    Master Thynne knoweth not clearly why the Baron should be called
      of Windsor.
    The ordeal was not tryall by fier only, but also by water, nor
      for chastity only, but for many other matters.
    The fyery ordeal was by going on hote shares and cultors, not
      going through the fyre. The mother of Edward confessor passed
      over nine burnynge shares.
    The ordeal taken away by the court of Rome, and after by Henry
      III.
    The stork bewrayeth not adultery but wreaketh the adultery of
      his owne mate.
    The plowman’s tale is wrong placed.
    Chaucer’s proper works should be distinguished from those
      adulterat and not his.
    There were three editions of Chaucer before William Thynne
      dedicated his to Henry VIII.
    The first editions being very corrupt, William Thynne augmented
      and corrected them.
    Master Speight hath omytted many auctors vouched by Chaucer.
    It should be Harlottes, and not Haroldes.
    The king of Ribalds or Harlottes, an officer of great accompt
      in times past.
    Johannes Tyllius maketh mention of a Rex Ribaldorum.
    Also Vincentius Luparius maketh him an honourable officer.
    The Rex Ribaldorum was like unto our Marshall. The Marshalls
      duties and his powers over Harlotts and lost men.
    Master Thynne being a herold liketh not that false semblance
      should be thought one.
    Hate was a Moueresse or stirrer of debate, not a minoresse.
    Molinet calleth Hate a Ducteress, or leader.]

  +Chaucer.+

  ANIMADUERSIONS

  uppon the Annotacions and correct{i}ons of some
  imperfect{i}ons of impress{i}ones
  of Chaucer’s workes (sett
  downe before tyme and
  nowe) reprinted in the
  yere of our lorde
  1598

  Sett downe by
  FRANCIS THYNNE.

  “Sortee pur bien ou ne sortee rien.”

  Now Newly Edited from the MS. in the
  Bridgewater Library

  by

  G. H. KINGSLEY, M.D., F.L.S.

  LONDON:
  Published for the Early English Text Society,
  by N. Trübner & Co., 60, Paternoster Row.

  MDCCCLXV.

  John Childs and Son, Printers.

PREFACE.

Although only the grandson of the first of his name, the author of the following interesting
specimen of 16th-century criticism came of a family of great antiquity, of so great an antiquity,
indeed, as to preclude our tracing it back to its origin. This family was originally known
as the “De Botfelds,” but in the 15th century one branch adopted the more humble name of “Thynne,”
or “of the Inne.” Why the latter name was first assumed has never been satisfactorily explained.
It can hardly be supposed that “John de la Inne de Botfelde,” as he signed himself, kept a
veritable hostelry and sold ale and provender to the travellers between Ludlow and Shrewsbury,
and most probably the term Inn was used in the sense which has given us “Lincoln’s Inn,” “Gray’s
Inn,” or “Furnivall’s Inn,” merely meaning a place of residence of the higher class, though
in this case inverted, the Inn giving its name to its owner.

However obtained, the name has been borne by the most successful branch of the De Botfelds
down to the present Marquess of Bath, who now represents it. Much interesting matter connected
with the family was collected by a late descendant of the older branch, Beriah Botfeld, and
published by him in his “Stemmata Botvilliana.”

The first “John of the Inn” married one Jane Bowdler, by whom he had a son Ralph, who married
Anne Hygons, and their son William became clerk of the kitchen, and according to some, master
of the household to Henry VIII. He married in the first place a lady who, however she may have
advanced her husband’s prospects at court, behaved in a manner which must have considerably
marred his satisfaction at her success. Those who wish to study the matrimonial sorrows of
“Thynnus Aulicus,” as he calls him, may consult Erasmus in his Epistolæ, lib. xv. Epist. xiv.

His second marriage to Anne Bond, daughter of William Bond, clerk of green cloth and master
of the household to Henry VIII., was more fortunate, and by her he had daughters and one son,
our Francis Thynne.

Though his son gives him no higher position in the court of Henry VIII. than the apparently
humble one of clerk of the kitchen, he is careful to let us know that the post was in reality
no mean one, and that “there were those of good worship both at court and country” who had
at one time been well pleased to be his father’s clerks. That he was a man of superior mind
there is no question, and we have a pleasant hint in the following tract of his intimacy with
his king, and of their mutual fondness for literature. To William Thynne, indeed, all who read
the English language are deeply indebted, for to his industry and love for his author we owe
much of what we now possess of Chaucer. Another curious bit of literary gossip to be gleaned
from this tract is that William Thynne was a patron and supporter of John Skelton, who was
an inmate of his house at Erith, whilst composing that most masterly bit of bitter truth, his
“Colin Clout,” a satire perhaps unsurpassed in our language.

William Thynne rests beside his second wife, in the church of Allhallows, Barking, near the
Tower of London, where there are two handsome brasses to their memory. That of William Thynne
represents him in full armour with a tremendous dudgeon dagger and broadsword, most warlike
guize for a clerk of the kitchen and editor of Chaucer. The dress of his wife is quite refreshing
in its graceful comeliness in these days of revived “farthingales and hoops.” These brasses
were restored by the late Marquess of Bath. Would that the same good feeling for things old
had prevented the owners of the “church property” from casing the old tower with a hideous
warehouse.

The Sir John Thynne mentioned in the “Animadversions” was most probably a cousin of Francis.
He married the daughter of Sir Thomas Gresham, the builder of the Royal Exchange, part of whose
wealth was devoted by his son-in-law to the building of the beautiful family seat of Long Leat,
in Wiltshire, in which work he was doubtless aided indirectly by the Reformation, for, says
the old couplet,

  “Portman, Horner, Popham, and Thynne,
  When the monks went out they came in.”

Francis Thynne was born in Kent, probably at his father’s house at Erith, about 1550. He was
educated at Tunbridge school under learned Master Proctor, thence to Magdalen College, Oxford,
and then, as the manner was, to the Inns of Court, where he lay at Lincoln’s Inn for a while.
Some men are born antiquarians as others are born poets, and we may be pretty certain that
it was at Thynne’s own desire that his court influence was used to procure him the post of
“Blanch Lyon pursuivant,” a position which would enable him to pursue studies, the results
of which, however valuable in themselves, but seldom prove capable of being converted into
the vulgar necessities of food and raiment. Poor John Stowe, with his license to beg, as the
reward of the labour of his life, is a terrible proof of how utterly unmarketable a valuable
commodity may become.

