Fully aware of my obligations, I set to work, and strove to redouble my fervour. Now and again
I wrote to my new brother. Undoubtedly, it is by prayer and sacrifice that we can help our
missionaries, but sometimes, when it pleases Our Lord to unite two souls for His Glory, He
permits them to communicate their thoughts, and thus inspire each other to love God more. Of
course an express command from those in authority is needed for this, otherwise, it seems to
me, that such a correspondence would do more harm than good, if not to the missionary, at least
to the Carmelite, whose manner of life tends to continual introversion. This exchange of letters,
though rare, would occupy her mind uselessly; instead of uniting her to God, she would perhaps
fancy she was doing wonders, when in reality, under cover of zeal, she was doing nothing but
producing needless distraction.--And here am I, launched, not upon a distraction, but upon
a dissertation equally superfluous. I shall never be able to correct myself of these lengthy
digressions which must be so wearisome to you, dear Mother. Forgive me, should I offend again.

Last year, at the end of May, it was your turn to give me my second brother, and when I represented
that, having given all my merits to one future apostle, I feared they could not be given to
another, you told me that obedience would double their value. In the depths of my heart I thought
the same thing, and, since the zeal of a Carmelite ought to embrace the whole world, I hope,
with God's help, to be of use to even more than two missionaries. I pray for all, not forgetting
our Priests at home, whose ministry is quite as difficult as that of the missionary preaching
to the heathen. . . . In a word, I wish to be a true daughter of the Church, like our holy
Mother St. Teresa, and pray for all the intentions of Christ's Vicar. That is the one great
aim of my life. But just as I should have had a special interest in my little brothers had
they lived, and that, without neglecting the general interests of the Church, so now, I unite
myself in a special way to the new brothers whom Jesus has given me. All that I possess is
theirs also. God is too good to give by halves; He is so rich that He gives me all I ask for,
even though I do not lose myself in lengthy enumerations. As I have two brothers and my little
sisters, the novices, the days would be too short were I to ask in detail for the needs of
each soul, and I fear I might forget something important. Simple souls cannot understand complicated
methods, and, as I am one of their number, Our Lord has inspired me with a very simple way
of fulfilling my obligations. One day, after Holy Communion, He made me understand these words
of the Canticles: "Draw me: we will run after Thee to the odour of Thy ointments."[1] O my
Jesus, there is no need to say: "In drawing me, draw also the souls that I love": these words,
"Draw me," suffice. When a soul has let herself be taken captive by the inebriating odour of
Thy perfumes, she cannot run alone; as a natural consequence of her attraction towards Thee,
the souls of all those she loves are drawn in her train.

Just as a torrent carries into the depths of the sea all that it meets on its way, so, my Jesus,
does the soul who plunges into the shoreless ocean of Thy Love bring with it all its treasures.
My treasures are the souls it has pleased thee to unite with mine; Thou hast confided them
to me, and therefore I do not fear to use Thy own words, uttered by Thee on the last night
that saw Thee still a traveller on this earth. Jesus, my Beloved! I know not when my exile
will have an end. Thine they were, and to me Thou gavest them; and they have kept Thy word.
And now I come to Thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy filled
in themselves. I do not ask that Thou take them away out of the world, but that Thou preserve
them from evil. They are not of the world, as I also am not of the world. And not for them
only do I pray, but for those also who through their word shall believe in me. Perhaps it is
daring, but, for a long time, hast thou not allowed me to be daring with Thee? Thou hast said
to me, as the Prodigal's father to his elder son: "All I have is thine."[3] And therefore I
may use thy very own words to draw down favours from Our Heavenly Father on all who are dear to me.

My God, Thou knowest that I have ever desired to love Thee alone. It has been my only ambition.
Thy love has gone before me, even from the days of my childhood. It has grown with my growth,
and now it is an abyss whose depths I cannot fathom.

Love attracts love; mine darts towards Thee, and would fain make the abyss brim over, but alas!
it is not even as a dewdrop in the ocean. To love Thee as Thou lovest me, I must make Thy Love
mine own. Thus alone can I find rest. O my Jesus, it seems to me that Thou couldst not have
overwhelmed a soul with more love than Thou hast poured out on mine, and that is why I dare
ask Thee to love those Thou hast given me, even as Thou lovest me.

If, in Heaven, I find that thou lovest them more than Thou lovest me, I shall rejoice, for
I acknowledge that their deserts are greater than mine, but now, I can conceive no love more
vast than that with which Thou hast favoured me, without any merit on my part.

.   .   .   .   .   .   .

Dear Mother, what I have just written amazes me. I had no intention of writing it. When I said:
"The words which Thou gavest me I have given unto them," I was thinking only of my little sisters
in the noviciate. I am not able to teach missionaries, and the words I wrote for them were
from the prayer of Our Lord: "I do not ask that Thou shouldst take them out of the world; I
pray also for them who through their word shall believe in Thee."

How could I forget those souls they are to win by their sufferings and exhortations?

But I have not told you all my thoughts on this passage of the Sacred Canticles: "Draw me--we
will run!" Our Lord has said: "No man can come to Me except the Father Who hath sent Me, draw
him,"[4] and later He tells us that whosoever seeks shall find, whosoever asks shall receive,
that unto him that knocks it shall be opened, and He adds that whatever we ask the Father in
His Name shall be given us. It was no doubt for this reason that, long before the birth of
Our Lord, the Holy Spirit dictated these prophetic words: "Draw me--we will run!" By asking
to be drawn, we desire an intimate union with the object of our love. If iron and fire were
endowed with reason, and the iron could say: "Draw me!" would not that prove its desire to
be identified with the fire to the point of sharing its substance? Well, this is precisely
my prayer. I asked Jesus to draw me into the Fire of His love, and to unite me so closely to
Himself that He may live and act in me. I feel that the more the fire of love consumes my heart,
so much the more shall I say: "Draw me!" and the more also will souls who draw near me run
swiftly in the sweet odour of the Beloved.

Yes, they will run--we shall all run together, for souls that are on fire can never be at rest.
They may indeed, like St. Mary Magdalen, sit at the feet of Jesus, listening to His sweet and
burning words, but, though they seem to give Him nothing, they give much more than Martha,
who busied herself about many things. It is not Martha's work that Our Lord blames, but her
over-solicitude; His Blessed Mother humbly occupied herself in the same kind of work when she
prepared the meals for the Holy Family. All the Saints have understood this, especially those
who have illumined the earth with the light of Christ's teaching. Was it not from prayer that
St. Paul, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, St. John of the Cross, St. Teresa, and so many
other friends of God drew that wonderful science which has enthralled the loftiest minds[?]

"Give me a lever and a fulcrum on which to lean it," said Archimedes, "and I will lift the world."

What he could not obtain because his request had only a material end, without reference to
God, the Saints have obtained in all its fulness. They lean on God Almighty's power itself
and their lever is the prayer that inflames with love's fire. With this lever they have raised
the world--with this lever the Saints of the Church Militant still raise it, and will raise
it to the end of time.

Dear Mother, I have still to tell you what I understand by the sweet odour of the Beloved.
As Our Lord is now in Heaven, I can only follow Him by the footprints He has left--footprints
full of life, full of fragrance. I have only to open the Holy Gospels and at once I breathe
the perfume of Jesus, and then I know which way to run; and it is not to the first place, but
to the last, that I hasten. I leave the Pharisee to go up, and full of confidence I repeat
the humble prayer of the Publican. Above all I follow Magdalen, for the amazing, rather I should
say, the loving audacity, that delights the Heart of Jesus, has cast its spell upon mine. It
is not because I have been preserved from mortal sin that I lift up my heart to God in trust
and love. I feel that even had I on my conscience every crime one could commit, I should lose
nothing of my confidence: my heart broken with sorrow, I would throw myself into the Arms of
my Saviour. I know that He loves the Prodigal Son, I have heard His words to St. Mary Magdalen,
to the woman taken in adultery, and to the woman of Samaria. No one could frighten me, for
I know what to believe concerning His Mercy and His Love. And I know that all that multitude
of sins would disappear in an instant, even as a drop of water cast into a flaming furnace.

It is told in the Lives of the Fathers of the Desert how one of them converted a public sinner,
whose evil deeds were the scandal of the whole country. This wicked woman, touched by grace,
followed the Saint into the desert, there to perform rigorous penance. But on the first night
of the journey, before even reaching the place of her retirement, the bonds that bound her
to earth were broken by the vehemence of her loving sorrow. The holy man, at the same instant,
saw her soul borne by Angels to the Bosom of God.

This is a striking example of what I want to say, but these things cannot be expressed. Dearest
Mother, if weak and imperfect souls like mine felt what I feel, none would despair of reaching
the summit of the Mountain of Love, since Jesus does not ask for great deeds, but only for
gratitude and self-surrender.

He says: "I will not take the he-goats from out of the flocks, for all the beasts of the forests
are mine, the cattle on the hills and the oxen. I know all the fowls of the air. If I were
hungry, I would not tell thee, for the world is Mine, and the fulness thereof. He has need
of our love--He has no need of our works. The same God, Who declares that He has no need to
tell us if He be hungry, did not disdain to beg a little water from the Samaritan woman. He
was athirst, but when He said: "Give me to drink,"[6] He, the Creator of the Universe, asked
for the love of His creature. He thirsted for love.

And this thirst of Our Divine Lord was ever on the increase. Amongst the disciples of the world,
He meets with nothing but indifference and ingratitude, and alas! among His own, how few hearts
surrender themselves without reserve to the infinite tenderness of His Love. Happy are we who
are privileged to understand the inmost secrets of Our Divine Spouse. If you, dear Mother,
would but set down in writing all you know, what wonders could you not unfold!

But, like Our Blessed Lady, you prefer to keep all these things in your heart.[7] To me you
say that "It is honourable to reveal and confess the world of God."[8] Yet you are right to
keep silence, for no earthly words can convey the secrets of Heaven.

As for me, in spite of all I have written, I have not as yet begun. I see so many beautiful
horizons, such infinitely varied tints, that the palette of the Divine Painter will alone,
after the darkness of this life, be able to supply me with the colours wherewith I may portray
the wonders that my soul descries. Since, however, you have expressed a desire to penetrate
into the hidden sanctuary of my heart, and to have in writing what was the most consoling dream
of my life, I will end this story of my soul, by an act of obedience. If you will allow me,
it is to Jesus I will address myself, for in this way I shall speak more easily. You may find
my expressions somewhat exaggerated, but I assure you there is no exaggeration in my heart--there
all is calm and peace.

O my Jesus, who can say how tenderly and gently Thou dost lead my soul! The storm had raged
there ever since Easter, the glorious feast of Thy triumph, until, in the month of May, there
shone through the darkness of my night one bright ray of grace. . . . My mind dwelt on mysterious
dreams sent sometimes to Thy favoured ones, and I thought how such a consolation was not to
be mine--that for me, it was night, always the dark night. And in the midst of the storm I
fell asleep. The following day, May 10, just at dawn, I dreamt that I was walking in a gallery
alone with Our Mother. Suddenly, without knowing how they had entered, I perceived three Carmelites,
in mantles and long veils, and I knew that they came from Heaven. "Ah!" I thought, "how glad
I should be if I could but look on the face of one of these Carmelites!" And, as if my wish
had been heard, I saw the tallest of the three Saints advance towards me. An inexpressible
joy took possession of me as she raised her veil, and then covered me with it.

At once I recognised our Venerable Mother, Anne of Jesus, foundress of the Carmel in France.[9]
Her face was beautiful with an unearthly beauty; no rays came from it, and yet, in spite of
the thick veil which enveloped us, I could see it suffused by a soft light, which seemed to
emanate from her heavenly countenance. She caressed me tenderly, and seeing myself the object
of such affection, I made bold to say: "Dear Mother, I entreat you, tell me, will Our Lord
leave me much longer in this world? Will He not soon come to fetch me?" She smiled sweetly,
and answered, "Yes, soon . . . very soon . . . I promise you." "Dear Mother," I asked again,
"tell me if He does not want more from me than these poor little acts and desires that I offer
Him. Is He pleased with me?" Then our Venerable Mother's face shone with a new splendour, and
her expression became still more gracious: "The Good God asks no more of you," she said, "He
is pleased, quite pleased," and, taking my head between her hands, she kissed me so tenderly
that it would be impossible to describe the joy I felt. My heart was overflowing with gladness,
and, remembering my Sisters, I was about to beseech some favour for them, when, alas! I awoke.
My happiness was too great for words. Many months have passed since I had this wonderful dream,
and yet its memory is as fresh and delightful as ever. I can still picture the loving smiles
of this holy Carmelite and feel her fond caresses. O Jesus! "Thou didst command the winds and
the storm, and there came a great calm."[10]

On waking, I realised that Heaven does indeed exist, and that this Heaven is peopled with souls
who cherish me as their child, and this impression still remains with me--all the sweeter,
because, up to that time, I had but little devotion to the Venerable Mother Anne of Jesus.
I had never sought her help, and but rarely heard her name. And now I know and understand how
constantly I was in her thoughts, and the knowledge adds to my love for her and for all the
dear ones in my Father's Home.

O my Beloved! this was but the prelude of graces yet greater which Thou didst desire to heap
upon me. Let me remind Thee of them to-day, and forgive my folly if I venture to tell Thee
once more of my hopes, and my heart's well nigh infinite longings--forgive me and grant my
desire, that it may be well with my soul. To be Thy Spouse, O my Jesus, to be a daughter of
Carmel, and by my union with Thee to be the mother of souls, should not all this content me?
And yet other vocations make themselves felt--I feel called to the Priesthood and to the Apostolate--I
would be a Martyr, a Doctor of the Church. I should like to accomplish the most heroic deeds--the
spirit of the Crusader burns within me, and I long to die on the field of battle in defence
of Holy Church.

The vocation of a Priest! With what love, my Jesus, would I bear Thee in my hand, when my words
brought Thee down from Heaven! With what love would I give Thee to souls! And yet, while longing
to be a Priest, I admire and envy the humility of St. Francis of Assisi, and am drawn to imitate
him by refusing the sublime dignity of the Priesthood. How reconcile these opposite tendencies?[11]

Like the Prophets and Doctors, I would be a light unto souls, I would travel to every land
to preach Thy name, O my Beloved, and raise on heathen soil the glorious standard of Thy Cross.
One mission alone would not satisfy my longings. I would spread the Gospel to the ends of the
earth, even to the most distant isles. I would be a Missionary, not for a few years only, but,
were it possible, from the beginning of the world till the consummation of time. Above all,
I thirst for the Martyr's crown. It was the desire of my earliest days, and the desire has
deepened with the years passed in the Carmel's narrow cell. But this too is folly, since I
do not sigh for one torment; I need them all to slake my thirst. Like Thee, O Adorable Spouse,
I would be scourged, I would be crucified! I would be flayed like St. Bartholomew, plunged
into boiling oil like St. John, or, like St. Ignatius of Antioch, ground by the teeth of wild
beasts into a bread worthy of God.[12]

With St. Agnes and St. Cecilia I would offer my neck to the sword of the executioner, and like
Joan of Arc I would murmur the name of Jesus at the stake.

My heart thrills at the thought of the frightful tortures Christians are to suffer at the time
of Anti-Christ, and I long to undergo them all. Open, O Jesus, the Book of Life, in which are
written the deeds of Thy Saints: all the deeds told in that book I long to have accomplished
for Thee. To such folly as this what answer wilt Thou make? Is there on the face of this earth
a soul more feeble than mine? And yet, precisely because I am feeble, it has delighted Thee
to accede to my least and most child-like desires, and to-day it is Thy good pleasure to realise
those other desires, more vast than the Universe. These aspirations becoming a true martyrdom,
I opened, one day, the Epistles of St. Paul to seek relief in my sufferings. My eyes fell on
the 12th and 13th chapters of the First Epistle to the Corinthians. I read that all cannot
become Apostles, Prophets, and Doctors; that the Church is composed of different members; that
the eye cannot also be the hand. The answer was clear, but it did not fulfill my desires, or
give to me the peace I sought. "Then descending into the depths of my nothingness, I was so
lifted up that I reached my aim."[13]

