There are a few little slips--so few that it is strange there should be any--among which is
his mention of the "St. Christopher" of the doges' palace as "the only known fresco of Titian,"
forgetting the celebrated one in the Scuola del Santo at Padua, of which he has spoken in a
previous volume. He occasionally makes an assertion to which many will demur; as, for instance,
that "The real glory of the Italian towns consists not in their churches, but in their palaces."
The best refutation of this paradox is in his own pages. Most people will be startled, too,
by hearing of "the want of architectural power in Michael Angelo," although this remark is
followed by a criticism which strikes us as extremely just on the stupendous slumberers on
the monuments of the Medici: "The disproportionate figures are slipping off the pitiable pedestals
which support them." Among the throng of indefinable emotions and sensations which beset one
in the Medicean chapel of San Lorenzo, we have always been conscious of distinct discomfort
from the attitude of these sleepers, who could only maintain their posture by an immense muscular
effort incompatible with their sublime repose. As regards practical matters, few travelers
or foreign residents in Italy will endorse Mr. Hare's statement that making a bargain in advance
for lodgings or conveyances is not a necessary precaution, or his denial of the almost universal
attempt to overcharge which is recognized and resisted by all natives. But Mr. Hare has illusions,
and Italian probity is one of them. All his remarks about the present government of Italy (of
which he speaks as "the Sardinian government" with an emphasis akin to the Buonaparte of old
French monarchists) are to be taken with the utmost reservation, as most readers will see for
themselves after meeting his allusion to the massacre at Perugia in 1859 as in some sort a
defensive action on the part of the papal troops. Mr. Hare's reasoning on all that relates
to this subject is weak and illogical, sometimes puerile. Any one who loves what is venerable
and picturesque must share the impatience and regret with which he sees so much beauty and
antiquity disappearing before the besom of progress or the rage for improvement, especially
in Rome. But we must remember that Italy is not the first, but the last, European country in
which this has come about: in England, France and Germany what delights the eyes of the few
has long been giving place to what betters the condition or serves the interest of the masses.
Moreover, the Italians themselves, of whatever political complexion, black or red, are totally
indifferent to these losses and changes which we lament so deeply. If there be a sad want of
good taste and good sense in Cavaliere Rosa's management of the excavations, there is at least
no lack of zeal. Formerly, next to nothing was done to preserve or protect the monuments, and
many of the finest were irrecognizable and all but inaccessible from dirt and dilapidation.
The reverence of the papal Romans for their treasures of either classic or Christian art is
well illustrated by Retzsch's outline, in which a lovely statue of Apollo, broken and half
buried, defiled by dogs and swine, serves as a seat for a loutish herd, who tries to copy a
miserable modern Virgin and Child from a wayside shrine. Such a temper of mind in an intelligent,
high-principled Englishman can only arise from a moral bias which distorts every view; but
the discussion of these causes and effects would be out of place here, and we only smile in
passing at the charge of "excessive cruelty" in the suppression of the monastery of San Vivaldo.
Mr. Hare's treatment of the legitimate topics of his book deserves all admiration and praise.