O.M. Very well. Now let us add up the details and see how much he got for his twenty-five cents.
Let us try to find out the REAL why of his making the investment. In the first place HE couldn't
bear the pain which the old suffering face gave him. So he was thinking of HIS pain--this good
man. He must buy a salve for it. If he did not succor the old woman HIS conscience would torture
him all the way home. Thinking of HIS pain again. He must buy relief for that. If he didn't
relieve the old woman HE would not get any sleep. He must buy some sleep--still thinking of
HIMSELF, you see. Thus, to sum up, he bought himself free of a sharp pain in his heart, he
bought himself free of the tortures of a waiting conscience, he bought a whole night's sleep--all
for twenty-five cents! It should make Wall Street ashamed of itself. On his way home his heart
was joyful, and it sang--profit on top of profit! The impulse which moved the man to succor
the old woman was--FIRST--to CONTENT HIS OWN SPIRIT; secondly to relieve HER sufferings. Is
it your opinion that men's acts proceed from one central and unchanging and inalterable impulse,
or from a variety of impulses?

Y.M. From a variety, of course--some high and fine and noble, others not. What is your opinion?

O.M. Then there is but ONE law, one source.

Y.M. That both the noblest impulses and the basest proceed from that one source?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. Will you put that law into words?

O.M. Yes. This is the law, keep it in your mind. FROM HIS CRADLE TO HIS GRAVE A MAN NEVER DOES
A SINGLE THING WHICH HAS ANY FIRST AND FOREMOST OBJECT BUT ONE--TO SECURE PEACE OF MIND, SPIRITUAL
COMFORT, FOR HIMSELF.

Y.M. Come! He never does anything for any one else's comfort, spiritual or physical?

O.M. No. EXCEPT ON THOSE DISTINCT TERMS--that it shall FIRST secure HIS OWN spiritual comfort.
Otherwise he will not do it.

Y.M. It will be easy to expose the falsity of that proposition.

O.M. For instance?

Y.M. Take that noble passion, love of country, patriotism. A man who loves peace and dreads
pain, leaves his pleasant home and his weeping family and marches out to manfully expose himself
to hunger, cold, wounds, and death. Is that seeking spiritual comfort?

O.M. He loves peace and dreads pain?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. Then perhaps there is something that he loves MORE than he loves peace--THE APPROVAL OF
HIS NEIGHBORS AND THE PUBLIC. And perhaps there is something which he dreads more than he dreads
pain--the DISAPPROVAL of his neighbors and the public. If he is sensitive to shame he will
go to the field--not because his spirit will be ENTIRELY comfortable there, but because it
will be more comfortable there than it would be if he remained at home. He will always do the
thing which will bring him the MOST mental comfort--for that is THE SOLE LAW OF HIS LIFE. He
leaves the weeping family behind; he is sorry to make them uncomfortable, but not sorry enough
to sacrifice his OWN comfort to secure theirs.

Y.M. Do you really believe that mere public opinion could force a timid and peaceful man to--

O.M. Go to war? Yes--public opinion can force some men to do ANYTHING.

Y.M. ANYTHING?

O.M. Yes--anything.

Y.M. I don't believe that. Can it force a right-principled man to do a wrong thing?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. Can it force a kind man to do a cruel thing?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. Give an instance.

O.M. Alexander Hamilton was a conspicuously high-principled man. He regarded dueling as wrong,
and as opposed to the teachings of religion--but in deference to PUBLIC OPINION he fought a
duel. He deeply loved his family, but to buy public approval he treacherously deserted them
and threw his life away, ungenerously leaving them to lifelong sorrow in order that he might
stand well with a foolish world. In the then condition of the public standards of honor he
could not have been comfortable with the stigma upon him of having refused to fight. The teachings
of religion, his devotion to his family, his kindness of heart, his high principles, all went
for nothing when they stood in the way of his spiritual comfort. A man will do ANYTHING, no
matter what it is, TO SECURE HIS SPIRITUAL COMFORT; and he can neither be forced nor persuaded
to any act which has not that goal for its object. Hamilton's act was compelled by the inborn
necessity of contenting his own spirit; in this it was like all the other acts of his life,
and like all the acts of all men's lives. Do you see where the kernel of the matter lies? A
man cannot be comfortable without HIS OWN approval. He will secure the largest share possible
of that, at all costs, all sacrifices.

Y.M. A minute ago you said Hamilton fought that duel to get PUBLIC approval.

O.M. I did. By refusing to fight the duel he would have secured his family's approval and a
large share of his own; but the public approval was more valuable in his eyes than all other
approvals put together--in the earth or above it; to secure that would furnish him the MOST
comfort of mind, the most SELF-approval; so he sacrificed all other values to get it.

Y.M. Some noble souls have refused to fight duels, and have manfully braved the public contempt.

O.M. They acted ACCORDING TO THEIR MAKE. They valued their principles and the approval of their
families ABOVE the public approval. They took the thing they valued MOST and let the rest go.
They took what would give them the LARGEST share of PERSONAL CONTENTMENT AND APPROVAL--a man
ALWAYS does. Public opinion cannot force that kind of men to go to the wars. When they go it
is for other reasons. Other spirit-contenting reasons.

Y.M. Always spirit-contenting reasons?

O.M. There are no others.

Y.M. When a man sacrifices his life to save a little child from a burning building, what do
you call that?

O.M. When he does it, it is the law of HIS make. HE can't bear to see the child in that peril
(a man of a different make COULD), and so he tries to save the child, and loses his life. But
he has got what he was after--HIS OWN APPROVAL.

Y.M. What do you call Love, Hate, Charity, Revenge, Humanity, Magnanimity, Forgiveness?

O.M. Different results of the one Master Impulse: the necessity of securing one's self approval.
They wear diverse clothes and are subject to diverse moods, but in whatsoever ways they masquerade
they are the SAME PERSON all the time. To change the figure, the COMPULSION that moves a man--and
there is but the one--is the necessity of securing the contentment of his own spirit. When
it stops, the man is dead.

Y.M. That is foolishness. Love--

O.M. Why, love is that impulse, that law, in its most uncompromising form. It will squander
life and everything else on its object. Not PRIMARILY for the object's sake, but for ITS OWN.
When its object is happy IT is happy--and that is what it is unconsciously after.

Y.M. You do not even except the lofty and gracious passion of mother-love?

O.M. No, IT is the absolute slave of that law. The mother will go naked to clothe her child;
she will starve that it may have food; suffer torture to save it from pain; die that it may
live. She takes a living PLEASURE in making these sacrifices. SHE DOES IT FOR THAT REWARD--that
self-approval, that contentment, that peace, that comfort. SHE WOULD DO IT FOR YOUR CHILD IF
SHE COULD GET THE SAME PAY.

Y.M. This is an infernal philosophy of yours.

O.M. It isn't a philosophy, it is a fact.

Y.M. Of course you must admit that there are some acts which--

O.M. No. There is NO act, large or small, fine or mean, which springs from any motive but the
one--the necessity of appeasing and contenting one's own spirit.

Y.M. The world's philanthropists--

O.M. I honor them, I uncover my head to them--from habit and training; and THEY could not know
comfort or happiness or self-approval if they did not work and spend for the unfortunate. It
makes THEM happy to see others happy; and so with money and labor they buy what they are after--HAPPINESS,
SELF-APPROVAL. Why don't miners do the same thing? Because they can get a thousandfold more
happiness by NOT doing it. There is no other reason. They follow the law of their make.

Y.M. What do you say of duty for duty's sake?

O.M. That IS DOES NOT EXIST. Duties are not performed for duty's SAKE, but because their NEGLECT
would make the man UNCOMFORTABLE. A man performs but ONE duty--the duty of contenting his spirit,
the duty of making himself agreeable to himself. If he can most satisfyingly perform this sole
and only duty by HELPING his neighbor, he will do it; if he can most satisfyingly perform it
by SWINDLING his neighbor, he will do it. But he always looks out for Number One--FIRST; the
effects upon others are a SECONDARY matter. Men pretend to self-sacrifices, but this is a thing
which, in the ordinary value of the phrase, DOES NOT EXIST AND HAS NOT EXISTED. A man often
honestly THINKS he is sacrificing himself merely and solely for some one else, but he is deceived;
his bottom impulse is to content a requirement of his nature and training, and thus acquire
peace for his soul.

Y.M. Apparently, then, all men, both good and bad ones, devote their lives to contenting their
consciences.

O.M. Yes. That is a good enough name for it: Conscience--that independent Sovereign, that insolent
absolute Monarch inside of a man who is the man's Master. There are all kinds of consciences,
because there are all kinds of men. You satisfy an assassin's conscience in one way, a philanthropist's
in another, a miser's in another, a burglar's in still another. As a GUIDE or INCENTIVE to
any authoritatively prescribed line of morals or conduct (leaving TRAINING out of the account),
a man's conscience is totally valueless. I know a kind-hearted Kentuckian whose self-approval
was lacking--whose conscience was troubling him, to phrase it with exactness--BECAUSE HE HAD
NEGLECTED TO KILL A CERTAIN MAN--a man whom he had never seen. The stranger had killed this
man's friend in a fight, this man's Kentucky training made it a duty to kill the stranger for
it. He neglected his duty--kept dodging it, shirking it, putting it off, and his unrelenting
conscience kept persecuting him for this conduct. At last, to get ease of mind, comfort, self-approval,
he hunted up the stranger and took his life. It was an immense act of SELF-SACRIFICE (as per
the usual definition), for he did not want to do it, and he never would have done it if he
could have bought a contented spirit and an unworried mind at smaller cost. But we are so made
that we will pay ANYTHING for that contentment--even another man's life.

Y.M. You spoke a moment ago of TRAINED consciences. You mean that we are not BORN with consciences
competent to guide us aright?

O.M. If we were, children and savages would know right from wrong, and not have to be taught it.

Y.M. But consciences can be TRAINED?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. Of course by parents, teachers, the pulpit, and books.

O.M. Yes--they do their share; they do what they can.

Y.M. And the rest is done by--

O.M. Oh, a million unnoticed influences--for good or bad: influences which work without rest
during every waking moment of a man's life, from cradle to grave.

Y.M. You have tabulated these?

O.M. Many of them--yes.

Y.M. Will you read me the result?

O.M. Another time, yes. It would take an hour.

Y.M. A conscience can be trained to shun evil and prefer good?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. But will it for spirit-contenting reasons only?

O.M. It CAN'T be trained to do a thing for any OTHER reason. The thing is impossible.

Y.M. There MUST be a genuinely and utterly self-sacrificing act recorded in human history somewhere.

O.M. You are young. You have many years before you. Search one out.

Y.M. It does seem to me that when a man sees a fellow-being struggling in the water and jumps
in at the risk of his life to save him--

O.M. Wait. Describe the MAN. Describe the FELLOW-BEING. State if there is an AUDIENCE present;
or if they are ALONE.

Y.M. What have these things to do with the splendid act?

O.M. Very much. Shall we suppose, as a beginning, that the two are alone, in a solitary place,
at midnight?

Y.M. If you choose.

O.M. And that the fellow-being is the man's daughter?

Y.M. Well, n-no--make it someone else.

O.M. A filthy, drunken ruffian, then?

Y.M. I see. Circumstances alter cases. I suppose that if there was no audience to observe the
act, the man wouldn't perform it.

O.M. But there is here and there a man who WOULD. People, for instance, like the man who lost
his life trying to save the child from the fire; and the man who gave the needy old woman his
twenty-five cents and walked home in the storm--there are here and there men like that who
would do it. And why? Because they couldn't BEAR to see a fellow-being struggling in the water
and not jump in and help. It would give THEM pain. They would save the fellow-being on that
account. THEY WOULDN'T DO IT OTHERWISE. They strictly obey the law which I have been insisting
upon. You must remember and always distinguish the people who CAN'T BEAR things from people
who CAN. It will throw light upon a number of apparently "self-sacrificing" cases.

Y.M. Oh, dear, it's all so disgusting.

O.M. Yes. And so true.

Y.M. Come--take the good boy who does things he doesn't want to do, in order to gratify his mother.

O.M. He does seven-tenths of the act because it gratifies HIM to gratify his mother. Throw
the bulk of advantage the other way and the good boy would not do the act. He MUST obey the
iron law. None can escape it.

Y.M. Well, take the case of a bad boy who--

O.M. You needn't mention it, it is a waste of time. It is no matter about the bad boy's act.
Whatever it was, he had a spirit-contenting reason for it. Otherwise you have been misinformed,
and he didn't do it.

Y.M. It is very exasperating. A while ago you said that man's conscience is not a born judge
of morals and conduct, but has to be taught and trained. Now I think a conscience can get drowsy
and lazy, but I don't think it can go wrong; if you wake it up--

A Little Story

O.M. I will tell you a little story:

Once upon a time an Infidel was guest in the house of a Christian widow whose little boy was
ill and near to death. The Infidel often watched by the bedside and entertained the boy with
talk, and he used these opportunities to satisfy a strong longing in his nature--that desire
which is in us all to better other people's condition by having them think as we think. He
was successful. But the dying boy, in his last moments, reproached him and said:

"I BELIEVED, AND WAS HAPPY IN IT; YOU HAVE TAKEN MY BELIEF AWAY, AND MY COMFORT. NOW I HAVE
NOTHING LEFT, AND I DIE MISERABLE; FOR THE THINGS WHICH YOU HAVE TOLD ME DO NOT TAKE THE PLACE
OF THAT WHICH I HAVE LOST."

And the mother, also, reproached the Infidel, and said:

"MY CHILD IS FOREVER LOST, AND MY HEART IS BROKEN. HOW COULD YOU DO THIS CRUEL THING? WE HAVE
DONE YOU NO HARM, BUT ONLY KINDNESS; WE MADE OUR HOUSE YOUR HOME, YOU WERE WELCOME TO ALL WE
HAD, AND THIS IS OUR REWARD."

The heart of the Infidel was filled with remorse for what he had done, and he said:

"IT WAS WRONG--I SEE IT NOW; BUT I WAS ONLY TRYING TO DO HIM GOOD. IN MY VIEW HE WAS IN ERROR;
IT SEEMED MY DUTY TO TEACH HIM THE TRUTH."

Then the mother said:

"I HAD TAUGHT HIM, ALL HIS LITTLE LIFE, WHAT I BELIEVED TO BE THE TRUTH, AND IN HIS BELIEVING
FAITH BOTH OF US WERE HAPPY. NOW HE IS DEAD,--AND LOST; AND I AM MISERABLE. OUR FAITH CAME
DOWN TO US THROUGH CENTURIES OF BELIEVING ANCESTORS; WHAT RIGHT HAD YOU, OR ANY ONE, TO DISTURB
IT? WHERE WAS YOUR HONOR, WHERE WAS YOUR SHAME?"

Y.M. He was a miscreant, and deserved death!

O.M. He thought so himself, and said so.

Y.M. Ah--you see, HIS CONSCIENCE WAS AWAKENED!

O.M. Yes, his Self-Disapproval was. It PAINED him to see the mother suffer. He was sorry he
had done a thing which brought HIM pain. It did not occur to him to think of the mother when
he was misteaching the boy, for he was absorbed in providing PLEASURE for himself, then. Providing
it by satisfying what he believed to be a call of duty.

Y.M. Call it what you please, it is to me a case of AWAKENED CONSCIENCE. That awakened conscience
could never get itself into that species of trouble again. A cure like that is a PERMANENT cure.

O.M. Pardon--I had not finished the story. We are creatures of OUTSIDE INFLUENCES--we originate
NOTHING within. Whenever we take a new line of thought and drift into a new line of belief
and action, the impulse is ALWAYS suggested from the OUTSIDE. Remorse so preyed upon the Infidel
that it dissolved his harshness toward the boy's religion and made him come to regard it with
tolerance, next with kindness, for the boy's sake and the mother's. Finally he found himself
examining it. From that moment his progress in his new trend was steady and rapid. He became
a believing Christian. And now his remorse for having robbed the dying boy of his faith and
his salvation was bitterer than ever. It gave him no rest, no peace. He MUST have rest and
peace--it is the law of nature. There seemed but one way to get it; he must devote himself
to saving imperiled souls. He became a missionary. He landed in a pagan country ill and helpless.
A native widow took him into her humble home and nursed him back to convalescence. Then her
young boy was taken hopelessly ill, and the grateful missionary helped her tend him. Here was
his first opportunity to repair a part of the wrong done to the other boy by doing a precious
service for this one by undermining his foolish faith in his false gods.

The missionary's anguish of remorse and sense of treachery were as bitter and persecuting and
unappeasable, now, as they had been in the former case. The story is finished. What is your
comment?

Y.M. The man's conscience is a fool! It was morbid. It didn't know right from wrong.

O.M. I am not sorry to hear you say that. If you grant that ONE man's conscience doesn't know
right from wrong, it is an admission that there are others like it. This single admission pulls
down the whole doctrine of infallibility of judgment in consciences. Meantime there is one
thing which I ask you to notice.

Y.M. What is that?

O.M. That in both cases the man's ACT gave him no spiritual discomfort, and that he was quite
satisfied with it and got pleasure out of it. But afterward when it resulted in PAIN to HIM,
he was sorry. Sorry it had inflicted pain upon the others, BUT FOR NO REASON UNDER THE SUN
EXCEPT THAT THEIR PAIN GAVE HIM PAIN. Our consciences take NO notice of pain inflicted upon
others until it reaches a point where it gives pain to US. In ALL cases without exception we
are absolutely indifferent to another person's pain until his sufferings make us uncomfortable.
Many an infidel would not have been troubled by that Christian mother's distress. Don't you
believe that?

Y.M. Yes. You might almost say it of the AVERAGE infidel, I think.

O.M. And many a missionary, sternly fortified by his sense of duty, would not have been troubled
by the pagan mother's distress--Jesuit missionaries in Canada in the early French times, for
instance; see episodes quoted by Parkman.

Y.M. Well, let us adjourn. Where have we arrived?

O.M. At this. That we (mankind) have ticketed ourselves with a number of qualities to which
we have given misleading names. Love, Hate, Charity, Compassion, Avarice, Benevolence, and
so on. I mean we attach misleading MEANINGS to the names. They are all forms of self-contentment,
self-gratification, but the names so disguise them that they distract our attention from the
fact. Also we have smuggled a word into the dictionary which ought not to be there at all--Self-Sacrifice.
It describes a thing which does not exist. But worst of all, we ignore and never mention the
Sole Impulse which dictates and compels a man's every act: the imperious necessity of securing
his own approval, in every emergency and at all costs. To it we owe all that we are. It is
our breath, our heart, our blood. It is our only spur, our whip, our goad, our only impelling
power; we have no other. Without it we should be mere inert images, corpses; no one would do
anything, there would be no progress, the world would stand still. We ought to stand reverently
uncovered when the name of that stupendous power is uttered.

Y.M. I am not convinced.

O.M. You will be when you think.

III

Instances in Point

Old Man. Have you given thought to the Gospel of Self-Approval since we talked?

Young Man. I have.

O.M. It was I that moved you to it. That is to say an OUTSIDE INFLUENCE moved you to it--not
one that originated in your head. Will you try to keep that in mind and not forget it?

Y.M. Yes. Why?

O.M. Because by and by in one of our talks, I wish to further impress upon you that neither
you, nor I, nor any man ever originates a thought in his own head. THE UTTERER OF A THOUGHT
ALWAYS UTTERS A SECOND-HAND ONE.

Y.M. Oh, now--

O.M. Wait. Reserve your remark till we get to that part of our discussion--tomorrow or next
day, say. Now, then, have you been considering the proposition that no act is ever born of
any but a self-contenting impulse--(primarily). You have sought. What have you found?

Y.M. I have not been very fortunate. I have examined many fine and apparently self-sacrificing
deeds in romances and biographies, but--

O.M. Under searching analysis the ostensible self-sacrifice disappeared? It naturally would.

Y.M. But here in this novel is one which seems to promise. In the Adirondack woods is a wage-earner
and lay preacher in the lumber-camps who is of noble character and deeply religious. An earnest
and practical laborer in the New York slums comes up there on vacation--he is leader of a section
of the University Settlement. Holme, the lumberman, is fired with a desire to throw away his
excellent worldly prospects and go down and save souls on the East Side. He counts it happiness
to make this sacrifice for the glory of God and for the cause of Christ. He resigns his place,
makes the sacrifice cheerfully, and goes to the East Side and preaches Christ and Him crucified
every day and every night to little groups of half-civilized foreign paupers who scoff at him.
But he rejoices in the scoffings, since he is suffering them in the great cause of Christ.
You have so filled my mind with suspicions that I was constantly expecting to find a hidden
questionable impulse back of all this, but I am thankful to say I have failed. This man saw
his duty, and for DUTY'S SAKE he sacrificed self and assumed the burden it imposed.

O.M. Is that as far as you have read?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. Let us read further, presently. Meantime, in sacrificing himself--NOT for the glory of
God, PRIMARILY, as HE imagined, but FIRST to content that exacting and inflexible master within
him--DID HE SACRIFICE ANYBODY ELSE?

Y.M. How do you mean?

O.M. He relinquished a lucrative post and got mere food and lodging in place of it. Had he
dependents?

Y.M. Well--yes.

O.M. In what way and to what extend did his self-sacrifice affect THEM?

Y.M. He was the support of a superannuated father. He had a young sister with a remarkable
voice--he was giving her a musical education, so that her longing to be self-supporting might
be gratified. He was furnishing the money to put a young brother through a polytechnic school
and satisfy his desire to become a civil engineer.

O.M. The old father's comforts were now curtailed?

Y.M. Quite seriously. Yes.

O.M. The sister's music-lessens had to stop?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. The young brother's education--well, an extinguishing blight fell upon that happy dream,
and he had to go to sawing wood to support the old father, or something like that?

Y.M. It is about what happened. Yes.

O.M. What a handsome job of self-sacrificing he did do! It seems to me that he sacrificed everybody
EXCEPT himself. Haven't I told you that no man EVER sacrifices himself; that there is no instance
of it upon record anywhere; and that when a man's Interior Monarch requires a thing of its
slave for either its MOMENTARY or its PERMANENT contentment, that thing must and will be furnished
and that command obeyed, no matter who may stand in the way and suffer disaster by it? That
man RUINED HIS FAMILY to please and content his Interior Monarch--

Y.M. And help Christ's cause.

O.M. Yes--SECONDLY. Not firstly. HE thought it was firstly.

Y.M. Very well, have it so, if you will. But it could be that he argued that if he saved a
hundred souls in New York--

O.M. The sacrifice of the FAMILY would be justified by that great profit upon the--the--what
shall we call it?

Y.M. Investment?

O.M. Hardly. How would SPECULATION do? How would GAMBLE do? Not a solitary soul-capture was
sure. He played for a possible thirty-three-hundred-per-cent profit. It was GAMBLING--with
his family for "chips." However let us see how the game came out. Maybe we can get on the track
of the secret original impulse, the REAL impulse, that moved him to so nobly self-sacrifice
his family in the Savior's cause under the superstition that he was sacrificing himself. I
will read a chapter or so.... Here we have it! It was bound to expose itself sooner or later.
He preached to the East-Side rabble a season, then went back to his old dull, obscure life
in the lumber-camps "HURT TO THE HEART, HIS PRIDE HUMBLED." Why? Were not his efforts acceptable
to the Savior, for Whom alone they were made? Dear me, that detail is LOST SIGHT OF, is not
even referred to, the fact that it started out as a motive is entirely forgotten! Then what
is the trouble? The authoress quite innocently and unconsciously gives the whole business away.
The trouble was this: this man merely PREACHED to the poor; that is not the University Settlement's
way; it deals in larger and better things than that, and it did not enthuse over that crude
Salvation-Army eloquence. It was courteous to Holme--but cool. It did not pet him, did not
take him to its bosom. "PERISHED WERE ALL HIS DREAMS OF DISTINCTION, THE PRAISE AND GRATEFUL
APPROVAL--" Of whom? The Savior? No; the Savior is not mentioned. Of whom, then? Of "His FELLOW-WORKERS."
Why did he want that? Because the Master inside of him wanted it, and would not be content
without it. That emphasized sentence quoted above, reveals the secret we have been seeking,
the original impulse, the REAL impulse, which moved the obscure and unappreciated Adirondack
lumberman to sacrifice his family and go on that crusade to the East Side--which said original
impulse was this, to wit: without knowing it HE WENT THERE TO SHOW A NEGLECTED WORLD THE LARGE
TALENT THAT WAS IN HIM, AND RISE TO DISTINCTION. As I have warned you before, NO act springs
from any but the one law, the one motive. But I pray you, do not accept this law upon my say-so;
but diligently examine for yourself. Whenever you read of a self-sacrificing act or hear of
one, or of a duty done for DUTY'S SAKE, take it to pieces and look for the REAL motive. It
is always there.

Y.M. I do it every day. I cannot help it, now that I have gotten started upon the degrading
and exasperating quest. For it is hatefully interesting!--in fact, fascinating is the word.
As soon as I come across a golden deed in a book I have to stop and take it apart and examine
it, I cannot help myself.

O.M. Have you ever found one that defeated the rule?

Y.M. No--at least, not yet. But take the case of servant-tipping in Europe. You pay the HOTEL
for service; you owe the servants NOTHING, yet you pay them besides. Doesn't that defeat it?

O.M. In what way?

Y.M. You are not OBLIGED to do it, therefore its source is compassion for their ill-paid condition,
and--

O.M. Has that custom ever vexed you, annoyed you, irritated you?

Y.M. Well, yes.

O.M. Still you succumbed to it?

Y.M. Of course.

O.M. Why of course?

Y.M. Well, custom is law, in a way, and laws must be submitted to--everybody recognizes it
as a DUTY.

O.M. Then you pay for the irritating tax for DUTY'S sake?

Y.M. I suppose it amounts to that.

O.M. Then the impulse which moves you to submit to the tax is not ALL compassion, charity,
benevolence?

Y.M. Well--perhaps not.

O.M. Is ANY of it?

Y.M. I--perhaps I was too hasty in locating its source.

O.M. Perhaps so. In case you ignored the custom would you get prompt and effective service
from the servants?

Y.M. Oh, hear yourself talk! Those European servants? Why, you wouldn't get any of all, to
speak of.

O.M. Couldn't THAT work as an impulse to move you to pay the tax?

Y.M. I am not denying it.

O.M. Apparently, then, it is a case of for-duty's-sake with a little self-interest added?

Y.M. Yes, it has the look of it. But here is a point: we pay that tax knowing it to be unjust
and an extortion; yet we go away with a pain at the heart if we think we have been stingy with
the poor fellows; and we heartily wish we were back again, so that we could do the right thing,
and MORE than the right thing, the GENEROUS thing. I think it will be difficult for you to
find any thought of self in that impulse.

O.M. I wonder why you should think so. When you find service charged in the HOTEL bill does
it annoy you?

Y.M. No.

O.M. Do you ever complain of the amount of it?

Y.M. No, it would not occur to me.

O.M. The EXPENSE, then, is not the annoying detail. It is a fixed charge, and you pay it cheerfully,
you pay it without a murmur. When you came to pay the servants, how would you like it if each
of the men and maids had a fixed charge?

Y.M. Like it? I should rejoice!

O.M. Even if the fixed tax were a shade MORE than you had been in the habit of paying in the
form of tips?

Y.M. Indeed, yes!

O.M. Very well, then. As I understand it, it isn't really compassion nor yet duty that moves
you to pay the tax, and it isn't the AMOUNT of the tax that annoys you. Yet SOMETHING annoys
you. What is it?

Y.M. Well, the trouble is, you never know WHAT to pay, the tax varies so, all over Europe.

O.M. So you have to guess?

Y.M. There is no other way. So you go on thinking and thinking, and calculating and guessing,
and consulting with other people and getting their views; and it spoils your sleep nights,
and makes you distraught in the daytime, and while you are pretending to look at the sights
you are only guessing and guessing and guessing all the time, and being worried and miserable.

O.M. And all about a debt which you don't owe and don't have to pay unless you want to! Strange.
What is the purpose of the guessing?

Y.M. To guess out what is right to give them, and not be unfair to any of them.

O.M. It has quite a noble look--taking so much pains and using up so much valuable time in
order to be just and fair to a poor servant to whom you owe nothing, but who needs money and
is ill paid.

Y.M. I think, myself, that if there is any ungracious motive back of it it will be hard to find.

O.M. How do you know when you have not paid a servant fairly?

Y.M. Why, he is silent; does not thank you. Sometimes he gives you a look that makes you ashamed.
You are too proud to rectify your mistake there, with people looking, but afterward you keep
on wishing and wishing you HAD done it. My, the shame and the pain of it! Sometimes you see,
by the signs, that you have it JUST RIGHT, and you go away mightily satisfied. Sometimes the
man is so effusively thankful that you know you have given him a good deal MORE than was necessary.

O.M. NECESSARY? Necessary for what?

Y.M. To content him.

O.M. How do you feel THEN?

Y.M. Repentant.

O.M. It is my belief that you have NOT been concerning yourself in guessing out his just dues,
but only in ciphering out what would CONTENT him. And I think you have a self-deluding reason
for that.

Y.M. What was it?

O.M. If you fell short of what he was expecting and wanting, you would get a look which would
SHAME YOU BEFORE FOLK. That would give you PAIN. YOU--for you are only working for yourself,
not HIM. If you gave him too much you would be ASHAMED OF YOURSELF for it, and that would give
YOU pain--another case of thinking of YOURSELF, protecting yourself, SAVING YOURSELF FROM DISCOMFORT.
You never think of the servant once--except to guess out how to get HIS APPROVAL. If you get
that, you get your OWN approval, and that is the sole and only thing you are after. The Master
inside of you is then satisfied, contented, comfortable; there was NO OTHER thing at stake,
as a matter of FIRST interest, anywhere in the transaction.

Further Instances

Y.M. Well, to think of it; Self-Sacrifice for others, the grandest thing in man, ruled out!
non-existent!

O.M. Are you accusing me of saying that?

Y.M. Why, certainly.

O.M. I haven't said it.

Y.M. What did you say, then?

O.M. That no man has ever sacrificed himself in the common meaning of that phrase--which is,
self-sacrifice for another ALONE. Men make daily sacrifices for others, but it is for their
own sake FIRST. The act must content their own spirit FIRST. The other beneficiaries come second.

Y.M. And the same with duty for duty's sake?

O.M. Yes. No man performs a duty for mere duty's sake; the act must content his spirit FIRST.
He must feel better for DOING the duty than he would for shirking it. Otherwise he will not do it.

Y.M. Take the case of the BERKELEY CASTLE.

O.M. It was a noble duty, greatly performed. Take it to pieces and examine it, if you like.

Y.M. A British troop-ship crowded with soldiers and their wives and children. She struck a
rock and began to sink. There was room in the boats for the women and children only. The colonel
lined up his regiment on the deck and said "it is our duty to die, that they may be saved."
There was no murmur, no protest. The boats carried away the women and children. When the death-moment
was come, the colonel and his officers took their several posts, the men stood at shoulder-arms,
and so, as on dress-parade, with their flag flying and the drums beating, they went down, a
sacrifice to duty for duty's sake. Can you view it as other than that?

O.M. It was something as fine as that, as exalted as that. Could you have remained in those
ranks and gone down to your death in that unflinching way?

Y.M. Could I? No, I could not.

O.M. Think. Imagine yourself there, with that watery doom creeping higher and higher around you.

Y.M. I can imagine it. I feel all the horror of it. I could not have endured it, I could not
have remained in my place. I know it.

O.M. Why?

Y.M. There is no why about it: I know myself, and I know I couldn't DO it.

O.M. But it would be your DUTY to do it.

Y.M. Yes, I know--but I couldn't.

O.M. It was more than thousand men, yet not one of them flinched. Some of them must have been
born with your temperament; if they could do that great duty for duty's SAKE, why not you?
Don't you know that you could go out and gather together a thousand clerks and mechanics and
put them on that deck and ask them to die for duty's sake, and not two dozen of them would
stay in the ranks to the end?

Y.M. Yes, I know that.

O.M. But you TRAIN them, and put them through a campaign or two; then they would be soldiers;
soldiers, with a soldier's pride, a soldier's self-respect, a soldier's ideals. They would
have to content a SOLDIER'S spirit then, not a clerk's, not a mechanic's. They could not content
that spirit by shirking a soldier's duty, could they?

Y.M. I suppose not.

O.M. Then they would do the duty not for the DUTY'S sake, but for their OWN sake--primarily.
The DUTY was JUST THE SAME, and just as imperative, when they were clerks, mechanics, raw recruits,
but they wouldn't perform it for that. As clerks and mechanics they had other ideals, another
spirit to satisfy, and they satisfied it. They HAD to; it is the law. TRAINING is potent. Training
toward higher and higher, and ever higher ideals is worth any man's thought and labor and diligence.

Y.M. Consider the man who stands by his duty and goes to the stake rather than be recreant to it.

O.M. It is his make and his training. He has to content the spirit that is in him, though it
cost him his life. Another man, just as sincerely religious, but of different temperament,
will fail of that duty, though recognizing it as a duty, and grieving to be unequal to it:
but he must content the spirit that is in him--he cannot help it. He could not perform that
duty for duty's SAKE, for that would not content his spirit, and the contenting of his spirit
must be looked to FIRST. It takes precedence of all other duties.

Y.M. Take the case of a clergyman of stainless private morals who votes for a thief for public
office, on his own party's ticket, and against an honest man on the other ticket.

O.M. He has to content his spirit. He has no public morals; he has no private ones, where his
party's prosperity is at stake. He will always be true to his make and training.

IV

Training

Young Man. You keep using that word--training. By it do you particularly mean--

Old Man. Study, instruction, lectures, sermons? That is a part of it--but not a large part.
I mean ALL the outside influences. There are a million of them. From the cradle to the grave,
during all his waking hours, the human being is under training. In the very first rank of his
trainers stands ASSOCIATION. It is his human environment which influences his mind and his
feelings, furnishes him his ideals, and sets him on his road and keeps him in it. If he leave
that road he will find himself shunned by the people whom he most loves and esteems, and whose
approval he most values. He is a chameleon; by the law of his nature he takes the color of
his place of resort. The influences about him create his preferences, his aversions, his politics,
his tastes, his morals, his religion. He creates none of these things for himself. He THINKS
he does, but that is because he has not examined into the matter. You have seen Presbyterians?

Y.M. Many.

O.M. How did they happen to be Presbyterians and not Congregationalists? And why were the Congregationalists
not Baptists, and the Baptists Roman Catholics, and the Roman Catholics Buddhists, and the
Buddhists Quakers, and the Quakers Episcopalians, and the Episcopalians Millerites and the
Millerites Hindus, and the Hindus Atheists, and the Atheists Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists
Agnostics, and the Agnostics Methodists, and the Methodists Confucians, and the Confucians
Unitarians, and the Unitarians Mohammedans, and the Mohammedans Salvation Warriors, and the
Salvation Warriors Zoroastrians, and the Zoroastrians Christian Scientists, and the Christian
Scientists Mormons--and so on?

Y.M. You may answer your question yourself.

