When the Palace of Trianon was building for Louis XIV. at the end of Versailles' Park, that
monarch went to inspect it, accompanied by Louvois, secretary of war, and superintendent of
the building. Whilst walking arm in arm with him, he remarked that one of the windows was out
of shape, and smaller than the rest--this Louvois denied, and asserted that he could not perceive
the least difference. Louis XIV. having had it measured, and finding that he had judged rightly,
treated Louvois in a contumelious manner before his whole court. This conduct so incensed the
minister, that when he arrived home he was heard to say, that he would find better employment
for a monarch than that of insulting his favourites: he was as good as his word, for by his
insolence and haughtiness he insulted the other powers, and occasioned the bloody war of 1688.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1306, Bruce having taken shelter in the Isle of Arran, sent a trusty person into Carrick,
to learn how his vassals stood affected to his cause; with instructions, that, if he found
them disposed to assist him he should make a signal at a time appointed, by lighting a fire
on an eminence near the Castle of Turnbury. The messenger found the English in possession of
Carrick, the people dispirited, and none ready to take arms; he therefore did not make the
signal. But a fire being made about noon on the appointed spot, (possibly by accident) both
Bruce and the messenger saw it. The former with his associates put to sea to join his supposed
party; the latter to prevent his coming. They met before Bruce reached the shore, when the
messenger acquainted Bruce with the unpromising state of his affairs, and advised him to go
back; but he obeying the dictates of despair and valour, resolved to persevere; and attacking
the English, carelessly cantoned in the neighbourhood of Turnbury, put a number of them to
the sword, and pillaged their quarters. Percy, from the castle, heard the uproar, yet did not
sally forth against them, not knowing their strength. Bruce with his followers not exceeding
three hundred in number, remained for some days near Turnbury; but succours having arrived
from the neighbouring garrisons, he was obliged to seek safety in the mountainous parts of Carrick.

C.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WILLIE WASTLE."

When Oliver Cromwell was at Haddington, he sent a summons to the governor of Hume Castle, ordering
him to surrender. The governor answered,

  "That he, Willie Wastle, stood firm in his castle,
  That all the dogs of his town should not drive Willie Wastle down."

This anecdote gave rise to the amusement of Willie Wastle among children.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the Irish Union was effected in 1801, the Ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir John Parnell,
was the reigning toast. Being one evening in a convivial party, he jocularly said that by the
Union he had lost his bread and butter. "Ah, my dear sir," replied a friend, "never mind, for
it is amply made up to you in toasts."

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS LEGACY.

By Samuel Hawkins, Esq. to White Chapel Parish, 1804, bequeathing £300. for performing Divine
Service for ever, in the said parish church.

Two guineas to be paid to Curate or Rector, for preaching a sermon on New Year's Day, from
a text mentioned in his will. To Parish Clerk 10s. 6d. to sing 100th Psalm, old version, same
day. To organist 10s. 6d. for playing tune to same. To Sexton 10s. 6d. if he attend the same;
and to master and mistress of the free-school, each 10s. 6d. for attending the charity children
at the same time and place; and to the Trustees of the school three guineas for refreshments,
and to supply as many quartern loaves to be distributed to such poor as shall attend divine
service on that day. The overplus, if any, to be given in bread to the poor of the parish that
the trustees may consider proper objects of relief.

JAC-CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

WIT AND JOKES.

Selden says, "Nature must be the ground work of wit and art, otherwise whatever is done will
prove but Jack-pudding's work.

"Wit must grow like fingers; if it be taken from others, 'tis like plums stuck upon black thorns;
they are there for awhile, but they come to nothing.

"Women ought not to know their own wit, because they will be showing it, and so spoil it; like
a child that will constantly be showing its fine new coat, till at length it all bedaubs it
with its pah hands.

"Fine wits destroy themselves with their own plots in meddling with great affairs of state.
They commonly do as the ape, that saw the gunner put bullets in the cannon, and was pleased
with it, and he would be doing so too; at last he puts himself into the piece, and so both
ape and bullet were shot away together."

"The jokes, bon-mots, the little adventures, which may do very well (says Chesterfield) in
one company will seem flat and tedious when related in another--they are often ill-timed, and
prefaced thus: 'I will tell you an excellent thing.' This raises expectations, which when absolutely
disappointed, make the relator of this excellent thing look, very deservedly, like a fool."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAT FOLKS.

Prince Harry and Falstaff, in Shakspeare, have carried the ridicule upon fat and lean as far
as it will go. Falstaff is humorously called Wool-Sack, Bed Presser, and Hill of Flesh; Harry,
a Starveling, an Eel's-skin, a Sheath, a Bow-case, and a Tuck.