Lolly could not wait to get her breakfast.  She cared for nothing to eat, now that her mind
was intent upon some great thing, and she sped away over the dewy grass to find her new friend.
She had never been in Alice's house, for they had only lived a little while in the place where
they now were, and Maddie alone had found out their neighbour.  Her sister would not always
let her play with her, and it was only a mere chance that led her to follow Maddie the day
before and get acquainted with Alice.

I did not mean to say chance.  I would rather say a kind watchful Providence--which is the
true and right word for a Christian to use; because everything that happens in this world is
governed by God's over- ruling power for some good purpose; and Lolly was led to the spot where
her sister and Alice were at play, expressly that she might learn something of her bright,
eternal home.

Now that she had seen the sunny-hearted little girl once, it took her but very few minutes
to find her again.

The distance seemed nothing at all; and, from the time she left her own door, she could see
the cheerful face all along her way, making her walk very pleasant and not in the least lonely.

The cottage door was wide open, and the sunlight lay in golden streaks on the floor at the
entrance, where Tabby had stretched herself comfortably. Lolly could see into the little square
room at the right.

The table was spread with a neat, white cloth, and Alice and her mother were eating their breakfast
together.  There were two white plates on the table, and white cups and saucers, and a smoking
dish of porridge.  All this Lolly could see as she stood hesitating near the door; but, in
a minute, Alice caught a glimpse of her little, shy face, and ran to lead her in.

"You must have some of this nice breakfast," said she, giving Lolly a plateful of the porridge,
and pouring some milk on it from a small white pitcher.

Lolly looked timidly at Alice's mother, to see if she might eat it; and the kind pleasant smile
she received made her feel quite at home, so that she needed no further urging.

Soon after the mother went away, and left Alice to put the room in order; and, when all things
were right, Alice said "she could go with Lolly as well as not that day, and they would make
a pretty place of the shabby cottage; for it was just in the best spot--so wild and shady and
green."

It was rather a sorrowful task at the beginning, and almost any other little girl than Alice
would have been quite discouraged.

There was a great deal of rubbish in the sitting-room, and the floor and windows looked as
if they had never known anything of soap and water. Maddie sat upon the top of a half-barrel,
swinging her brown, soiled feet, and playing with a black puppy, that was snapping at her toes;
while the table was strewn with crumbs and dirty dishes from the morning's meal, and chips
and sticks and bits of rags were upon the floor.

She looked as if she had just got out of bed.  Her face was dull, and her hair showed no touch
of brush or comb, and her nails were long and dirty; but she jumped from her perch with some
signs of shame as she saw Alice, so neat and tidy, at the door; and she began to scramble about
as if she wished to make things a little better.

"May I help you to-day, Maddie?" asked Alice.  "I haven't any work at home, and I like to get
things tidy.  We'll make such a room of this before night!" And, without another word, she
began in earnest to bring order out of strange confusion.

Lolly was a capital helper, because her heart was in the matter, and she really wanted a pleasant,
cheerful home; but Maddie was content to look on, and scarcely moved a finger to help.

They packed away the wood and chips in the closet under the lowest shelf, and washed the dishes
and set them up edgewise in their proper places; and they mopped the floor, and scrubbed the
windows and table, and brought boughs of evergreen to hang upon the nails around the walls
and make it cheerful and pretty.

Alice thought of this.  She said, "Rich folks hang paintings on their walls--and these are
God's pictures, the work of his almighty fingers, and so beautiful!  Why not put them where
we can always look at them, and in them see his love and kindness?"

Lolly thought her the most wonderful little girl in all the world, and clapped her hands for
joy as she looked upon the altered room.

Then they went outside, and swept the sticks and chips from the lawn; and Maddie managed to
hunt up a hammer and some old rusty nails, and to help Alice to fasten the loose boards upon
the door, which improved it more than anything else could do.

It was so low from the roof to the ground that by stepping on a chair they could easily reach;
and they trained a running rose-bush, that had been long neglected, and hung, trailing, over
the grass, so that it nearly covered the whole side of the cottage, and would soon be like
a bright green mantle over the dark walls.

CHAPTER VII.

Just as they had finished their labours, and Alice had prevailed upon Maddie to put herself
in a little better order, and the three young friends had seated themselves upon the step to
get something from Alice's Bible--some words of love and blessing, as Alice said, from their
heavenly Father--there came a lady up the road towards them.  She was walking very slowly along,
with her parasol shielding her face, so that it was quite concealed from the children; but
Alice knew her dress, and ran quickly to meet her, crying joyously, "It is Miss Mason, dear Lolly!"

Maddie ran into the cottage and hid behind the door, like a foolish little girl; but Lolly
sat still, very glad that the good teacher was coming to speak to her, yet trembling with a
sort of nervous fear; because she was a shy little girl, and so seldom saw strangers.

She wondered that Alice dared go so fearlessly up and walk along, with her hand in Miss Mason's
hand, and her face upturned towards the lady's, while she talked as freely as if it had been
herself or Maddie listening. But when Miss Mason stood by the step and stooped down to kiss
her sun- burned cheek, and said sweetly, "So this is your little friend Lolly, is it, Alice?"
she did not wonder any longer; for her heart leaped to meet the gentle lady, and she could
not take her eyes from such a kind and loving face.

"Where's Maddie?" asked Miss Mason, with a smile.

She could see her peeping through the crack of the door; and, understanding the case, she said
carelessly,--

"I suppose she will join us by-and-by.  We will sit here and read in Alice's book until she
comes, and then I want to talk to you.  Alice told me you lived here, Lolly, and I want you
to go to the Sunday-school.  We are very happy there, are we not, Alice?"

Alice answered with a beaming face, and she and Lolly sat, one on each side of the teacher,
and listened as she read to them from God's holy Word.

She read first about the creation of this beautiful world, and the garden where Adam and Eve
were placed; and, when she had made Lolly and Maddie understand all about how sin came--for
Maddie, attracted by the sweet voice and pleasant manner, had crept softly from her hiding-place
and curled herself upon the step behind the lady--Miss Mason turned to the New Testament and
read to them a few verses about Jesus, who took upon himself our nature and suffered for our sins.

The children were much impressed by the story of the Saviour's sufferings and death; and when
the teacher told them that every naughty word and deed of theirs was like a nail in the Saviour's
feet or hands, they felt that they would never again do a wicked thing.

Then she told them how impossible it would be for them to keep from sin without God's continual
help; and she taught them how to look up to him and ask for his aid and blessing.  And when
she had made sure that they could say a short prayer, and had obtained a promise from them
that they would go every Sunday to the Sunday-school, she kissed them all three very affectionately,
and went on to search for others of her heavenly Father's wandering children.

"When she had gone quite out of sight, and they were taking another good look at the changed
rooms, that seemed so grand to them all, Lolly said thoughtfully to Alice,--

"Do you think the great King will like to come here now?"

"He is here," said Alice reverently.  "Don't you feel it, Lolly?  We never see him, you know,
as we see each other; but we feel that he is near, just as you feel that your mother is in
the room even when the darkness hides her from your eyes."

Lolly repeated the little prayer softly, "O my heavenly Father, I will try to love thee.  Wilt
thou not come unto me, and be with me wherever I am, and help me to be thy child?"  And, as
she said the words, she knew that God was with her, and that from that hour there was a Presence
in the house that would drive away all the gloom, and make such brightness as filled the cottage
of her little friend.

It was time for Alice to go; but she lingered a little while longer to teach Maddie how to
prepare the supper, so that when her mother came home weary from her labour, there might be
no more hard work for her to do, but real comfort and rest.

"Now, don't get tired of housekeeping," said she, as she tied on her sun- bonnet to go.  "I
shall run over some day to see how you get on; and I'm sure it's so much prettier to be sweet,
and clean, and tidy, that you'll love to keep the house nice."  And away she tripped to make
things pleasant for her own dear, hard-working mother.

Sunny little girl!  She knew how many tiresome steps her diligent hands and loving heart could
save her poor widowed mother; and in everything she did there was a tender thought of the warm
heart against which her infant head had lain when her little feet and hands were weak and helpless.

She was glad now that they had grown strong to aid, that she could give back some of the care
and effort.  Alice never dreamed of growing impatient in her mother's service.  She did not
wait to be asked to help her, but watched for opportunities, and so proved a great blessing
and treasure in the lowly cottage home, that would have been very dismal and sad without her
sunny, buoyant little body.

CHAPTER VIII.

Peter Rand and his wife came lagging up the road as the sun was setting. They had passed an
uncommonly laborious day, and were completely tired out with their toil.  They were very silent,
and were thinking what a sad, miserable home was theirs, and how little of cheer they had in
life. Nothing seemed bright to them, although the earth was like a paradise for greenness and
fragrance and beauty.  As they drew near the house, Mr. Rand was very much surprised by the
great change in the outward aspect of the place.  He could scarcely believe that he had not
mistaken the road, and come to some other cottage than the slovenly one that he had left in
the morning.

His wife, intent upon the supper that her hungry appetite craved, had pressed forward in haste
to prepare it.

As she entered the door, however, she started back with the strange feeling that she was in
the house of some neighbour; but Pug, the little dog, ran frisking about her, and convinced
her that is was indeed her own house.

The table was set in the middle of the room, and the dishes were arranged in nice order; and
just in the centre was Lolly's pewter mug, with a bunch of sweet, blue violets to grace it all.

