No further delay was allowed. The sheriffs moved on, the ordinary, the culprits, and the officers
did the same; and that class of attendants to which I belonged followed. I shall not easily
forget the circumstances of this brief, but melancholy progress. The faltering step--the deep-drawn
sigh--the mingling exclamations of anguish and devotion which marked the advance of the victims--the
deep tones of the reverend gentleman who now commenced reading a portion of the burial service,
and the tolling of the prison bell, which, as we proceeded through some of the most dreary
passages of the gaol, burst on the ear, rendered the whole spectacle impressive beyond description.
Few steps sufficed to conduct us to the small room, or entrance-hall, into which the debtor's
door opens, and from this we saw the ladder which the criminals were to ascend, and the scaffold
on which they were to die. I was on the alert to detect any sudden emotion which this spectacle
might cause, but could not perceive that it had the slightest effect. The minds of the sufferers
had been so prepared, that a partial view of the machine to which they were being conducted,
seemed to give no additional shock. No further pause was deemed necessary. The clock was striking
eight, and the ordinary and the youth first brought to the press-room, immediately passed up
the ladder. To the two culprits that remained, the gentleman whom I have already mentioned
offered his services, and filled up with a prayer the little interval which elapsed, before
the second was conducted to the platform.

I heard from without the murmur of awe, of expectation, and pity, which ran through the crowd
in front of the prison, and stepping on a small erection to the left of the door, gained a
momentary glimpse of a portion of the immense multitude, who, uncovered, and in breathless
silence, gazed on the operations of the executioners. I retreated just as the third halter
had been adjusted. The finisher of the law was in the act of descending, when the under-sheriff
addressed him--

Is everything quite ready?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then take care and draw the bolt out smartly.--Now, don't bungle it."

"No, sir--you may depend upon it," was the answer. And the obsequious anxiety of the hangman
to seem polite and obliging, his apparent zeal to give satisfaction, though very natural seemed
to me not a little curious.

Prayers, which had been interrupted for a moment, while the last awful ceremony was in progress,
were resumed. As he read them, I saw the clergyman fix his eye on the executioner with a peculiar
expression. He drew his handkerchief from his pocket, and passed it slightly over his upper
lip. This was the fatal signal. A lumbering noise, occasioned by the falling of part of the
apparatus, announced that it had been obeyed.

In that moment, a rush from the scaffold forced me from the door. The sheriffs, the under-sheriff,
the ordinary, the gentleman who had assisted him in preparing the sufferers for eternity, and
several other persons quitted the platform as expeditiously as possible, that they might not
behold the final agonies of the unhappy men. Sir Thomas took me by the arm as he passed, and
signified that he wished me to accompany him. I did so. Again I marched through the passages
which I had recently traversed. Two minutes brought me to the door of the room to which I had
first been conducted. Here my friend accosted me with his natural firmness of tone, which before
had been considerably subdued by humane emotions, and said--

"You must breakfast with us."

I started at the unsentimental idea of eating the moment after quitting so awful a spectacle,
as that which I have attempted to describe. But I had not sufficient energy to resist the good
will which rather unceremoniously handed me in. Here I found the other sheriff, the ordinary,
the under-sheriff, the city-marshal, and one or two of the individuals I had previously met,
already seated.

"Well, it is all over," said Sir Thomas, as he took his seat at the table.

"Yes, it is," said the ordinary, in the same tone which I had heard a few moments before, and
admired as appropriately solemn. "It is all over, and--" putting his cup and saucer to the
under-sheriff, who prepared to pour out the tea--"I am very glad of it."

"I hope you do not mean the breakfast is all over," remarked the sheriff, whose wit I had previously
admired, "for I have had none yet."

The moment had not arrived at which humour like this could be duly appreciated, and I did not
observe that any of the company gave even that sort of note of face for a laugh which we had
all used half an hour before.

Our conversation turned naturally on the manner in which the sufferers had conducted themselves;
on the wishes they had expressed, and the confessions they had made.

But while I looked on the hospitably spread table, I could not help connecting operations rather
different in their character, which must have been going on at the same moment. "In my mind's
eye," I saw the attendants carrying the fowl and eggs to the breakfast table, while the sheriffs
and their guests were conducting the sufferers to the scaffold.

From what I have already said, it must be inferred that the first speeches which accomplished
the circuit of the table, were of a very serious character. But, mingled with them, some common
breakfast-table requests and civilities caught my attention, as singular from their association.
The performance of duties the most important cannot relieve man from the necessity of claiming
his "daily bread," and I do not know that it is any reproach to a clergyman that he is not
distinguished by versatility of manner. The abrupt transition from the gravity of the pulpit
to the flippancy of the bar I should not admire; but the consistency of the reverend gentleman
here attracted my notice. I had been just listening to him while he repeated, with devotional
elongation, the solemn words of the burial service; and when I heard him with the same elongation
of sound, address himself to me--"Shall I trouble you to cut up the fowl--can I help you to
some tongue, sir?" I confess that I felt tempted not to laugh, but to comment on the oddly-contrasted
feelings which the same voice, thus variously exerted, inspired.

Horror-struck, as I had been, at the first mention of the unfeeling word "breakfast," my excuse
for staying was to see if others could eat. That I should take food was quite out of the question.
But the wing of a fowl having been put on my plate, I thought it would be rudeness to reject
it. I began to eat, inwardly reflecting that my abstinence would nothing benefit those whose
sufferings I had still in my memory; and improving on this reconciling thought, I presently
detected myself holding my plate for a second supply. "O sentiment!" I mentally exclaimed,
"what art thou when opposed to a breakfast?"

By the time we had disposed of our first cup of tea, we had got through the pious reflections
which each of us had to offer on the particular occasion which had brought us together, and
conversation started in a livelier vein. The gentleman who had assisted the ordinary, by praying
with the culprits, gaily remarked to him, with a benevolent chuckle on his face, that they
(meaning himself and the reverend gentleman) had succeeded in refuting the Unitarian principles
which A---- (one of the sufferers) had for some time avowed. The look which answered this speech,
reminded me, I know not why, of the organist's comment on the organ blower's assertion that
they had played famously well.

"Ay," said the minister, "I knew it would be so. I told him so immediately after sentence.
But, after all, what can we say for a recantation dictated by the dread of early death?"

"Very true!" was my exclamation, as the reverend gentleman looked as if he expected me to say
something.

"At any rate," whispered a gentleman well-known in the city, with whom I had formerly done
a little business in the funds, "it gives a man something of an option."

This technical application of a favourite stock-exchange word produced a general smile round
the table, and I could not help contributing to lengthen it by replying--

"You mean, perhaps, that it gives him a call." But the lively sheriff, of whose witticisms
I have already made honourable mention, cut me out of my share of applause altogether, as clean
as a whistle, by instantly rejoining--

"The put you mean, for, in this case, the party was going for the fall."

Of course there was no standing this, and we all joined in the laugh.

We were however brought back to gravity through the alarm expressed by the minister, at the
idea of his having taken cold through officiating that morning without his wig.  This introduced,
I cannot tell how, some remarks on the head, which led to a disquisition on craniology. On
this subject the witty sheriff was very amusing. I said some tolerably lively things; but the
ordinary beat us all hollow, when it was contended that the disposition and the mind might
be known from the exterior of the skull, by remarking that he had now an additional reason
to regret having come there without his wig.

With this epigrammatic touch he took his leave, I and the rest of the company laughing heartily,
and having eaten as heartily as we then laughed. The facetious sheriff now had it all his own
way, and said several things, nearly, or perhaps, quite as good as those which I have already
placed on record. We were thus pleasantly engaged, when the aide-de-camp of the gallant officer
in the blue and gold,--one of the city marshal's-men, entered to announce that it was past
nine o'clock, and to ask if any of the company chose to see the bodies taken down.

"The bodies!" I repeated to myself, and the application of that word to those whom I had previously
heard mentioned but by their names, recalled my thoughts which had somehow strayed from the
business of the morning into unlooked-for cheerfulness, and presented, in that simple expression,
an epitome of all that had moved my wonder, curiosity, and commiseration.

Again we passed through those parts of the prison which I had twice before traversed. We advanced
with a quicker step than when following those whom we now expected to see brought to us. But
with all the expedition we could use, on reaching the room from which the scaffold could be
seen, we found the "bodies" already there. Nor was this, in my opinion, the least striking
scene which the morning brought under my observation. The dead men were extended side by side,
on the stone floor. The few persons present gazed on them in silence, duly impressed with the
melancholy spectacle. But in this part of the building a copper is established, in which a
portion of the provisions for its inmates is prepared. There was a savoury smell of soup, which
we could not help inhaling while we gazed on death. The cooks too were in attendance, and though
they, as became them, did all in their power to look decorously dismal, well as they managed
their faces, they could not so divest themselves of their professional peculiarities, as not
to awaken thoughts which involuntarily turned to ludicrous or festive scenes. Their very costume
was at variance with the general gloom, and no sympathy could at once repress the jolly rotundity
of their persons.

I turned my eyes from them, wishing to give myself wholly up to religious meditation during
the moments of my stay. Just then the executioner approach, ed. Sir Thomas desired him to remove
the cap from the face of one of the sufferers. He prepared to comply--but his first act was
to place his hand on the more prominent features and press them together. This, on inquiry
being made, I learned was done that the bystanders might not be shocked by witnessing any distortion
of countenance. Sir Thomas smiled at the anxiety of the man to make it appear that his work
had been well performed. The cap was then withdrawn. There was nothing terrific in the aspect
of the deceased. I recognized the features of the young man who had been so wildly, so violently
agitated, when about to suffer. Now pain was at an end, apprehension was no more, and he seemed
in the enjoyment of sweet repose. His countenance was tranquil as that of a sleeping infant,
and happier than the infant, his rest was not in danger of being disturbed. While reflecting
on the change which a single hour had sufficed to produce, I could hardly help regarding as
idle the the sorrow, the pity, and the self-reproach for momentary forgetfulness of these,
which I had felt and breathed within that period. I almost accused the sufferers of weakness,
for showing themselves depressed as they had been, while I felt disposed, seeing their griefs
were, to all appearance, terminated for ever, to demand with the poet,

  "And what is death we so unwisely fear?"

and to answer as he replies to himself,

  "An end of all our busy tumults here."

Knight's Quarterly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

JEU D'ESPRIT.

(For the Mirror.)

  A sanctified hermit was heard to complain
  That raiment and food he no longer could gain.
  "For," quoth he "in this village the famine's so great
  That there's not enough left e'en a mousetrap to bait."

  A neighbour who happened to bear his sad plaint
  Addressed in the following manner the saint:
  "The nation will keep thee to support splendour's throne,
  And interest will pay thee, because thou'rt alone."--(a loan.)

W.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Months.

SEPTEMBER.

  "Now sober Autumn, with lack lustre eye,
  Shakes with a chiding blast the yellow leaf,
      And hears the woodman's song
      And early sportsman's foot."

September is generally accounted the finest and most settled month in the year. The mornings
and evenings are cool, but possess a delightful freshness, while the middle of the day is pleasantly
warm and open. Hence the well-known proverb:

  "September blows soft till the fruit's in the loft."

The destruction of the partridge commences with this month, large coveys of which may now be
seen about the stubble fields, and in the corn, if any be left standing. These birds get very
shy towards the end of the month, in consequence of being repeatedly fired at. Sportsmen, therefore,
prefer the early part of the season, before the birds get too wild. Partridges, while the corn
is standing, have a secure retreat from their numerous enemies; but when the harvest is gathered
in, they resort in the day-time to groves and covers. At night, however, they return to the
stubble to avoid foxes and weasels, &c., and there nestle together.

The swallow now takes his departure for milder regions, and many other of the small billed
birds that feed on insects disappear when the cold weather commences. The throstle, the red-wing,
and the fieldfare, which migrated in March, now return; and the ring-ouzel arrives from the
Welsh and Scottish Alps to winter in more sheltered situations. All these birds feed upon berries,
of which there is a plentiful supply, in our woods, during a great part of their stay. The
throstle and the red-wing are delicate eating. The Romans kept thousands of them together in
aviaries, and fed them with a sort of paste made of bruised figs and flour, &c., to improve
the delicacy and flavour of their flesh. These aviaries were so contrived as to admit but little
light; and every object which might tend to remind them of their former liberty was carefully
kept out of sight, such as the fields, the woods, the birds, or whatever might disturb the
repose necessary for their improvement. Under this management, these birds fattened to the
great profit of their proprietors, who sold them to Roman epicures for three denarii, or about
two shillings each of our money.

Towards the end of September the leaves of trees begin to put on their autumnal dress. Mr.
Stillingfleet remarks, that, about the 25th, the leaves of the plane tree were tawny; of the
hazel, yellow; of the oak, yellowish green; of the sycamore, dirty brown; of the maple, pale
yellow; of the ash, a fine lemon-colour; of the elm, orange; of the hawthorn, tawny yellow;
of the cherry, red; of the horn-beam, bright yellow; of the willow, still hoary. Yet, many
of these tints cannot be considered complete, in some seasons, till the middle or latter end
of October.

When the harvest is gathered in, the husbandman prepares for seed-time; and the fields are
again ploughed up for the winter corn, rye, and wheat, which are sown in September and October.
The entrances to bee-hives are straightened, to prevent the access of wasps and other pilferers.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASTRONOMICAL OCCURRENCES

FOR SEPTEMBER, 1827.

(For the Mirror.)

The sun enters the cardinal and equinoctial sign Libra, on the 23rd at 8 h. 24 min. evening,
once more bringing our day and night to an equal length; when 8 deg. of Gemini are due east,
and 4 deg. of Aquarius due south, all the planets having a direct motion, and being below the
horizon, Herschel excepted. The astrological aspects at this ingress are as follow:--Saturn
is located in the third house; Mercury, Venus, and Mars in the fifth, the Sun, Moon, and Jupiter
are in the sixth, while Herschel occupies the ninth.

Mercury is in conjunction with Mars on the 4th, at 1 h. morning; on the 6th with the fixed
star, Regulus, or Corheoni; with Venus on the 18th, at midnight; and in superior conjunction
with the Sun on the 24th, at 9-1/2 h. evening.

Venus rises at the beginning of the month about 4-1/2 h. morning, and towards the end at 5-1/2 h.

Mars rises through the month at 31/2 h. morning.

Jupiter is now gradually receding from our view, and will ere long be totally surrounded with
the brighter beams of the Sun; his eclipses are therefore not visible.

Saturn is apparently now fast approaching this part of our hemisphere; he rises on the 1st
at 12-1/2 h. and on the 31st at 10-3/4 h. evening.

Herschel culminates on the 1st at 9h. 6m. and on the 31st at 7h. 12m.

If the reader will refer to page 131 of the 8th vol. of the MIRROR, he will find his attention
invited to the relative positions of the principal northern stars and constellations for September
last year: their present appearance is precisely similar. Pasche.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE WOODSMAN."

A German newspaper contains a strange account--avouched with as much apparent accuracy almost
as those which concerned the mermaids lately seen off our own coast, or the sea-serpent that
visits the shores of America--of a conversion lately worked upon the morals of a famous robber,
by a supernatural visitation in the forest of Wildeshausen. The hero of the tale, whose name
is Conrad Braunsvelt, but who was better known by the cognomen of "The Woodsman," was drinking
one evening at a small inn on the borders of the forest of Wildeshausen, when a traveller,
well mounted, and carrying a portmanteau on his horse behind him, came up by the road which
runs from the direction of Hanover. The stranger, after inquiring if he could be accommodated
with a bed, led his horse away to the stable, and in doing this, left his portmanteau upon
a bench within the house--which Conrad immediately, as a preliminary measure, tried the weight
of. He had just discovered that the valise was unusually heavy, when the return of the traveller
compelled him to desist; but his curiosity, without any farther effort, was not long ungratified;
for the stranger soon opened it before him, as it seemed, to take out some articles which were
necessary for his use at night; and displayed in the process several large bags--larger almost
than the machine would have seemed able to contain--which were evidently full of gold or silver
money. The cupidity of Conrad was excited by this view, and he would gladly have at once secured
the prize even at the hazard of a personal struggle with the stranger; but the people of the
inn (according to his account afterwards) were such as would have expected a portion of the
spoil. For this reason, although unwillingly, and trusting himself to sleep little, lest by
any chance the prey should escape him, he abandoned his design of robbery, for that night;
and on the next morning, having learned which way the stranger travelled--for the latter exhibited
no suspicions or apprehension of those about him, but spoke freely of his intended road, though
he never mentioned anything of the charge he carried--having ascertained this fact, he allowed
the rider to depart, and after a short time, followed by a shorter track through the forest,
which was practicable only to persons on foot, and which would enable him, had he even started
later, easily to overtake the mounted traveller. Now, knowing that his nearer road saved, as
has been noticed, full a league of ground, the "Woodsman" moved on slowly; and accounted that,
when he reached the point at which they were to meet, he should still have some time to wait
for the stranger: on emerging, however, into the high road, he found him to his surprise already
approaching; and, what was still more extraordinary, mounted upon a black horse, when that
on which he had left the inn, had certainly seemed to be a brown. The portmanteau, however,
which was all that Conrad looked to, was still behind the traveller, and on he came riding
as if nothing at all was the matter: the "Woodsman" never hung back, or staid reflecting, but
levelled his rifle, and called upon him to "Stand and deliver," or his next moment was his
last. The traveller upon this pulled up his horse with an air of great coolness; and, looking
upon Conrad, said something, which, as the robber since says, he verily believes was--"That
he hoped he had not kept him waiting!"--or words to that purpose; but he was too busy at the
time to pay much attention to discourse. "Do you know who it is you are going to rob though?"
asked the stranger, addressing the "Woodsman" directly. "Not I," replied the latter, boldly:
"but, if you were der Dyvel himself, descend from that horse, and deliver the bags of money
that you have on you, or you shall die!" Upon this, the black rider said no more; but dismounted
quietly, although he had pistols in his holsters; and Conrad, immediately taking the portmanteau
from the horse's back, was so eager to be sure of the contents, that he drew his knife, and
cut the fastenings on the spot. In the meantime, the traveller might have fallen upon him unawares,
and to advantage, but the "Woodsman" endeavoured to keep an eye upon him, while he went on
forcing the valise open as well as he could. At length the straps were all cut, and the robber
thrust his hands in eagerly, making sure to find the bags which he had seen the preceding evening,
for he had distinctly felt them from the outside. But, when he drew out his hands, there was
in one only a halter, and in the other a piece of brass in the shape of a gibbet! And, at the
same moment, a gripe was laid upon his arm; and a deep low voice, which seemed to be close
beside him, pronounced the words, "This shall be thy fate!" When he turned round in horror
and consternation, the horse, and the rider, and the portmanteau, all were gone; and he found
himself within a few paces of the inn door which he had quitted in the morning, with the halter
and the brass gibbet still remaining in his hand. The narrative states farther, that this horrible
rencontre so affected Conrad Braunsvelt, that he forthwith delivered himself up to the rangers
of the forest, and was sent to Cassel to await the pleasure of the Grand Duke. He is now confined
in an asylum for repentant criminals, desirous of being restored to society; and his miraculous
warning is noted in the records of the institution.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMBRIAN CONVIVIALITY.

Old Ballad.

There is something refreshing, and not a little inspiriting, in the scanty relics of those
hearty customs and pastimes which imparted such a manly tone to the character of our ancestors;
but now, like the ruined castle, or the old ivied abbey, they have become objects of admiration
rather than sources of delight. Fifty years ago, the inhabitants of North Wales, a rude and
blunt race even now, were far less sophisticated by modern refinement than they are at present;
and it was then a common matter for the Penteulu, or head of the family, to dine in the large
stone hall of the mansion--he and his own particular friends at a table, raised on a Dais--and
his numerous tenants and dependants at another table running the whole length of the said hall.
Then came the wassailing--worthy of the days of Arthur--wine for the upper table; ale, medd,
(mead,) and spirits for the other; and after all came the friendly contest at some manly game--wrestling,
racing, pitching the bar, or the like. At a period somewhat later, these boisterous pastimes
began to degenerate; and the Welsh squire became more polished, but not, perhaps, more happy.
Still the custom of inordinate potation fondly clung to him. Immediately contiguous to every
mansion of any magnitude was erected a summerhouse, usually situated in a spot, selected for
the beauty of the scene which it commanded; and to this sanctum did the gentlemen retire after
dinner, to enjoy, unrestrained by the presence of the ladies, a full indulgence in that boisterous
carousal, which their bluff hearts so dearly loved. But these good and glorious customs have
died the death, and gone the way, of all perishable things; they are gone, as are those jovial
souls who gave them life and buoyancy; but the eternal hills, which echoed to their merriment
and glee--they remain unaltered by time, and unshaken by the storms which have passed over them.

Yet is there still much jovial heartiness in the festive revelry of the mountaineers. One scene,
in which I was a participator, I will endeavour to portray--it is impressed on my memory by
more than one token of grateful reminiscence. It was in the summer of 1825 that I left London
for a few weeks, and sought among my native hills a reparation of the wear and tear of half-a-dozen
years of hard and unceasing toil. Two days after my arrival In Merionethshire was celebrated
the birthday of Robert Williams Vaughan, Esq., of Nannau, the only son of Sir Robert Williams
Vaughan, Bart., and member for the county; a gentleman of whom it may be truly said, that his
heart is replete with every noble and benevolent attribute, and that his mind is dignified
by practical wisdom, sound sense, and energy to direct, for the benefit of his dependents,
the fine and Christian virtues which he possesses. "Come up to Nannau," is his encouraging
address to the labourer, when the hardships of winter are pressing upon the poor: "Come up
to Nannau, show me that you are willing to work, and I will give you your wages." It is for
benevolence like this, well and usefully exercised, that Sir Robert Vaughan is especially remarkable,
as well also for all those qualities which adorn and dignify the British country gentleman.
Always careful of the welfare, habits, and comforts of the poor around him; patronizing the
industry, ingenuity, and good conduct of his more humble countrymen, and ministering to the
wants of the sick and the poor; hospitable in the extreme; kind, affable, and friendly to all,
he fulfils in every respect the happy duties of the wealthy British landholder; and by his
generous courtesy he has ensured to himself the perfect esteem of every person who knows him.
Living in the midst of a cheerful and contented tenantry, the chieftain as it were of a devoted
clan, the proprietor of Nannau may be truly termed a happy man. The empty blandishments of
the world have no charms for him, nor have its ephemeral pleasures any allurement; for, like
the gallant knight of Peugwern, when invited by Henry the Seventh to share the honors of his
court, for services rendered at Bosworth Field, he would meekly but promptly reply, "Sire!
I love to dwell among mine own people." Such is Sir Robert Vaughan of Nannau, whose memory
will be long and fondly cherished by those who have enjoyed his friendship, and witnessed his
calm, manly, and useful virtues.

We sat down to dinner, about forty in number, occupying two tables placed parallel to each
other, in the spacious dining-room of the mansion. Choice fish of every kind; venison from
Nannau Park, celebrated for the delicious flavour of its fat bucks; mountain-mutton, from the
fertile pastures of Llanfachreth; the noble sirloin, and, in fact, every substantial delicacy
that wealth could procure, pressed even to groaning the broad tables of our host; while the
harper in the hall twanged his instrument with a force and a fury, that plainly showed his
previous intimacy with the good cheer of the place. But noble and magnificent as our entertainment
was in the eating department, it was infinitely surpassed by that which was devoted to the
orgies of Bacchus. No sooner was the brief and scarcely audible grace pronounced by the chaplain,
than in marched old Pearson, the gray-headed butler, bearing in each hand a goblet, in form
like an acorn, and fashioned of the dark polished oak of the far-famed Spirits-Blasted Tree,[7]
richly ornamented with appropriate silver emblems. One of these was placed reversed by the
side of the president and croupier of each table, and presently afterwards flanked by a huge
silver tankard of foaming ale, strong enough almost to blow into the air a first-rate man-of-war.
Filling this goblet, which held very nearly a pint, the president made his speech to the health
and happiness of the young 'squire, and draining it dry, passed it on to his left-hand neighbour.
The croupier did the same, and like the great bear of Bradwardine, did the acorn of Nannau
begin to make its rounds, in a manner quite as fearful to me as was the terrific approach of
the bear aforesaid to the heir of Waverley Honor. Unfortunately for me, I sat between two determined
and well-seasoned topers, who took especial care that I should not only fill to each toast,
but drain the cup to the very bottom; so that, novice as I was in this sort of hilarity, I
found myself, in a very short time, lying down under a laburnum tree in the lawn, and composing
myself very comfortably--no, not very comfortably--to sleep. I had my sleep, however; and when
I awoke and re-entered the house, a merry group of guests had surrounded the harper in the
hall, and were singing Penillion at full stretch, to the now unsteady and somewhat discordant
accompaniment of the minstrel; the laugh was of course against me, but good-nature, rather
than contempt, characterised the bantering, and I bore it all in good part. The party broke
up about eleven, and before midnight I was at home, after a magnificent walk of three miles,
over the mountains, in the moonlight. The Inspector.

    [7] This was an old blasted oak, standing a few years ago in Nannau
        Park, to the infinite horrification of the honest mountaineers.
        Tradition had imbued it with a terrible and awful influence--for,
        some four or five hundred years ago, the gigantic skeleton of a
        warrior was found incased in its trunk, and grasping with its
        bony fingers a long and ponderous sword. It was blown down one
        stormy night, and the wood has been manufactured into a variety
        of articles.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW SOUTH WALES.

The following observations, recorded in Mr. Cunningham's Two Years in New South Wales, are
as valuable as they are interesting; for hitherto we have known but little of the natural history
of that country:--

Trees.--Trees here appear to follow the same laws as other vegetable substances, regarding
the effects they produce upon the soil wherein they grow. It has long been remarked in America,
that on the forests being cut down, young trees of a different species sprout up in place of
the old ones; and here the same remark, in a great measure, holds good,--acacias very commonly
making their appearance on land that has been once under cultivation, and afterwards permitted
to relapse into a state of nature. From this circumstance it should seem, that trees, like
other vegetables, extract a particular substance from the ground, which substance it is necessary
should be restored before the same species of tree can be readily grown a second time,--a restoration
to be effected, perhaps, by such chemical changes in the constituent particles of the soil
as may arise from the cultivation of other species.

Fruits.--Of native fruits, we possess raspberries equal in flavour and not otherwise distinguishable
from the English. They grow plentifully on the alluvial banks of Hunter's river, and supply
a yearly Christmas feast to the birds. Oar native currants are strongly acidulous, like the
cranberry, and make an excellent preserve when mixed with the raspberry. They grow on low shrubs
not higher than the whortleberry bush. Our cherries are destitute both of pleasant taste and
flavour, and have the stone adhering to their outside. Our native pears are tolerably tempting
to the look, but defy both mastication and digestion, being the pendulous seed-pods of a tree
here, and their outer husks of such a hard woody consistence, as to put the edge of even a
well-tempered knife to proof of its qualities in slicing them down. The burwan is a nut much
relished by our natives, who prepare it by roasting and immersion in a running stream, to free
it from its poisonous qualities. The jibbong is another tasteless fruit, as well as the five-corners,
much relished by children. The wild potato strongly resembles the species now in use in Europe,
but the stem and leaf are essentially different. It grows on the loose flooded alluvial margins
of the rivers, and at one period of the year composes the chief sustenance of the natives,
having the watery look and taste of the yam. Of foreign fruits now climatized we possess a
great variety. Here are oranges, lemons, citrons, nectarines, apricots, peaches, plums, cherries,
figs, loquats, grenadillos, quinces, pears, apples, mulberries, pomegranates, grapes, olives,
raspberries, strawberries, bananas, guavas, pineapples, and English and Cape gooseberries and
currants. Of shell-fruits we have the almond, walnut, chestnut, and filbert; and of other garden
fruits, strawberries, melons, peppers, &c.

