About six weeks before 1902 was due, Rose A. Bainbridge and myself left behind us the last
outpost of England--Gibraltar--with its cluster of civilization round the bottom of the great
Rock. Four hours brought us across the Straits; and seen from the deck of the dirty little
Gibel Musa, on to which we had changed from a P. & O. at Gibraltar, Morocco shaped itself into
a rugged country, ridge behind ridge of low hills and jagged mountains cutting the sky-line.
A long white sand-bank lying back in a bay on the African shore, broken at one end by irregular
vegetation, gradually developed upon its slopes a yellowish-white, fantastic city, which resolved
itself into Tangier.

Landing at Tangier among vociferating Moors has been described often enough, and needs no further
enlargement.

The next morning, November 13, 1901, found us sitting over coffee and an omelette out of doors,
on a little balcony opening off the hotel Villa Valentina, over-looking the road to Fez, and
facing the broad, blue Straits which divided us from Europe.

It was like a June morning at home, soft and balmy: the city dropped from us down to the beach,
and the sun poured upon the flat-roofed houses, coloured yellow to pale cream or washed-out
blue, alternating with a lavish coat of glaring whitewash.

Tangier is an example of structure without architecture; at the same time there is a certain
fitness in the crude Moorish buildings, whose flat expanse of wall is unbroken either by windows
or ornament: they are simple and "reserved." Gleaming in high light under an equally light
sky, they huddle almost one on top of the other, built upon every available square yard inside
the "papery" old city wall, which looks as if cannon would blow it away. Patches of blue sea
break the white city outline, and the towers of the mosques rise above it all: their tesselated
surfaces, tiled in shades of green and polished by the years, shimmer in the sunshine like
peacocks' tails.

Two or three gateways pierce the drab-coloured city wall, their horseshoe-shaped arches washed
over with salmon-pink. The same plaster-work arch repeats itself occasionally in the rough
stone- and mortar-work of the houses, all of an inferior quality, short-lived and rebuilt again
and again on the débris of successive years, until they stand in time right above the cobble-stones
of the narrow streets.

Outside the city wall a few private houses and two hotels lie back among eucalyptus, palms,
and bushy stone-pines: several of the legations which represent the European Powers have modern
houses, lost in greenery of sorts. Behind these, again, a suburb of jerry-built Spanish houses,
with the scum of Spain, is inclined to grow, which offshoot of fifth-rate Europe gives at last
upon the rolling pastures and windswept hills of the open country.

Our breakfast-table brought us face to face with every traveller who passed along the great
sandy track leading eventually to Fez, which people in Morocco call a road, beaten to-day and
for the last two thousand years by the feet of generations of camels, mules, donkeys, horses,
cattle, and mankind.

Though the wayfarers, plodding through the dusty hoof-marks, were desultory, it was quiet for
few hours even at night, and under our windows we waked to an eternal shuffling in the soft
sand, the champing of bits, and guttural Arabic tones.

R. and I leaned over the balcony. Women passed us wrapped in voluminous whity-yellow garments--haiks--black
eyes and red slippers alone showing. Date-coloured boys passed us, wearing red fezes and dirty-white
turbans. Countrymen passed us in great, coarse, brown woollen cloaks--jellabs--the hood pulled
right on over the head, short wide sleeves, the front joined all down, and having scarred bare
legs and feet coming out from underneath. These drove strings of diminutive donkeys, a couple
of water-barrels balanced across the back of each--supplies of water for Tangier when the rain-water
tanks are giving out: there are few wells in the city.

More women, veiled to the eyes, passed us, in delightful shoes--milk-coloured leather, embroidered
with green: an African woman, black as a boot, with thick negro lips and yellow metal bracelets
on her charcoal-sticks of arms. More donkeys passed us, carrying vegetables to market, driven
by countrywomen in yellowish-white haiks, vast straw hats, and the inevitable veil. Two men
passed us with an immense open box containing thousands of eggs, hung between them by a pole
on the shoulder of each--export for England: forty-eight millions were sent off in 1902, and
this morning's omelette might not be our first Morocco egg. A Moor of some means came by, riding
at a hard-held ambling walk his star-gazing white mule: the high-peaked saddle and bridle were
of scarlet cloth, the stirrup-leathers of scarlet twisted wool; he wore a creamy woollen haik,
falling in soft folds down to his yellow slippers, a turban whose snowy disc of enormous size
framed his cinnamon-coloured face in symmetrical folds of spotless white, and the top of a
scarlet fez showed in the centre of it.

Almost opposite us a beggar had sat himself down at the edge of the road, under the shelter
of the high cane fence--a grimy old greybeard, tanned and worn like a walnut, in a tattered
jellab and shady turban. "For the love of God; for the love of God," he rolled out incessantly
in Arabic, ending in a throaty gobble like a turkey; and the country people threw him, as they
passed, of their bundles--here an orange, there a lump of charcoal--whatever it might be it
was crammed into the hood of the jellab; and the sing-song and the gobble began again. In a
Mohammedan country it is counted a duty as well as a holy deed to encourage beggars: almsgiving
represents to the faithful Mussulman equivalent gain in Paradise; and no one starves in Morocco,
though occasionally dismissed with a wave of the hand and "God provide for you." Mad people
are regarded as saints, and credited with the gift of prophecy. It is an exceedingly holy thing
to walk about naked. A holy man in Fez was in the habit of sitting at a missionary's gate stark
naked; eventually this proceeding had to be put a stop to, because the holy man would insist
upon holding the horses of the missionary's afternoon callers.

Our beggar sat in the same spot day after day, hour after hour, fatuitously happy, blissfully
content. "God is great, and what is written is written": remorse, regrets, are alike unknown
to Mussulmen; and it is this which dignifies their religion and themselves. Life passes lightly
over them, and chisels few lines and puckers in the serene patriarchal faces--they may be scamps
of the first water, for all one can tell; it sits lightly upon them.

A small boy in a white tunic and red fez, who called himself Larbi, was playing about near
the beggar: being able to speak a little English, he made himself useful to visitors, and was
rapidly exchanging his good qualities for the drawbacks of the hanger-on: he came out with
us for a day or two, smoked several cigarettes in the course of the afternoon, and picked us
useless bunches of ordinary flowers. Remonstrance was futile, but when no more little silver
coins were forthcoming he left off shadowing us.

We found our own way down to the great sok, or market-place, in the wake of some donkeys carrying
live cackling fowls, fastened by a bit of string and their feet to any part of the donkey and
its baskets which came handy. On each side of the road and everywhere in Tangier the obstinate
steely-grey cactus, or prickly pear, dominates the landscape: its fat fleshy leaves make as
good a protection as the sharp-pointed aloe round the irregular plots of cultivated ground.
Alternating with them, tall bound cane fences swish and rattle in the wind.

Steely-grey and a yellow-bleached white describe the vegetation of Tangier, set in its white
sand-dunes. Morocco is far from having lot or part in the gorgeous East, as tradition says.
To begin with, from the end of August to the end of April hazy days greatly predominate, and
thirty inches of rain are put in: naturally the country and people take their cue from the
general colour of the sky, from its white-yellow light, in which a wan sun is yet able to produce
a glare. Morocco is yellow-white, and the Moors themselves run from the colour of cinnamon,
through shades of coffee and old gold, to biscuit and skim-milk. Their houses and their clothes
take on the same whites and greys, yellows and browns, and the sand and the scrub again and
again repeat the tale. Perhaps it has a saddening effect, borne out in the colourless monotone
of the lives of its countrywomen.

Presently we passed a skin-yard, salted goat-skins, drying by the hundred under the sun, spread
upon the ground, upon the flat roofs, wherever a skin could lie, curling with dryness, the
empty legs of the late owners standing stiff and upright, like petrified stockings, pointing
dismally to heaven.

We overtook a string of camels as we neared the sok, strolling along and regarding the skies,
R. and myself with an exaggerated superciliousness. They were laden with dates, carpets, and
slippers from Fez, and, together with mules and donkeys, constitute the vans and railway-trucks
of Morocco, substituting over the face of the land a dilatory calm in the place of speed and
bustle.

But at first it was a real effort to take in a tenth part of surroundings so different from
those of England; and when we found ourselves in the sok--the hub of Moorish life--it was to
be jostled by donkey-drivers shouting "Baarak! Baarak!" by black water-carriers from the Sus
country, by veiled women, by negroes from Timbuctoo, by mules and camels, by men walking, men
riding, without one sight or sound familiar, in a dream-world of intense life, recalling nothing
so much as the Old Testament. It was worth the journey out from home to see this sok--an open
space crawling with brown-and-white, cloaked and hooded humanity, mixed up with four-legged
beasts, also brown, and the whole more like a magnified ant-hill on the flat than anything
human. In front of the squatted country people their stock-in-trade lay in piles, gorgeous
in tone: oranges and oranges and more oranges, selling at one thousand seven hundred for a
shilling; scarlet chillies--hot blots of colour; pink onions; red carrots; white salt, collected
down on the beach; green pumpkins blotched with yellow; besides grain of all sorts, basketsful
of charcoal, bundles of wood, dried fruit, flat round loaves of bread, cabbages, and what not.
The sound of a perpetual muffin-bell was ringing backwards and forwards--the bhisti of Tangier,
with his hairy goatskinful of water across his back, and two bright brass bowls hung by a chain
round his neck, a bell in one hand, with the other dealing out drinks of water for a Moorish
copper coin of which a penny contains fifteen.

We elbowed our way through the Báb-el-Sok, or Gate of the Market-place, into the city, and
found ourselves in a long, narrow, straight street, dropping down to the marsa, or harbour.
The irregular, light colour-washed houses jut out promiscuously over the minute cupboard-like
shops crammed with oddments of every sort and hue, and leaving scanty room for the owner to
squat on some carpet or mattress, until it strikes him that it is time to eat or go to prayers,
and he locks up the double doors of his "store cupboard" and strolls away.

