Reeves told the Phill-la-me-york story which was told by Austin Pen Parnell. You will find
it in his story. The only difference between his story and Parnell's is that Reeves had the
conclusion. He claimed that the old master got in a fight with one of the slaves present and
yelled out his identity when he was getting badly beaten. The story sounds like it came from
the Arkansas folklore collection or from someone who contributed it to that collection.

An aftermath of Reeves' story is finding out that most people consider Henry Banner, whose
story has been previously given and whose age was given as eighty-nine, is considered by many
persons to be ninety-four.

Neely, one of the adult school-teachers, says that he has gone over Banner's life carefully
with him, and that he must have been twenty-one or twenty-two at the close of the War because
during slavery, he had experience at logging, or rather at logrolling, a work so difficult
that only full-grown men were used at it. Since Banner is slightly built, there is scarcely
a possibility that he did such work before the normal time.

[HW: Cf. 30715 for interview with Parnell.]

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person Interviewed: Shepherd Rhone
                    10th and Kentucky
                    Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 75

"Yes ma'am, I was bred and born in 'sixty-three in Phillips County, Arkansas, close to Helena,
on old Judge Jones' plantation. Judge Jones, he was a lawyer. Remember him? I ought to, he
whiped me enough. His wife's name was Caroline Jones. She used to smack my jaws and pull my
ears but she was a pretty good woman. The old judge was a raw one though. You had to step around
or he'd step around for you.

"I stayed right there till I was grown. My mother was named Katie Rhone and my father was named
Daniel Rhone. My mother was born in Richmond, Virginia and my father in Petersburg, Virginia.

"Judge Jones brought em here to Arkansas. My father was a bodyguard for old Judge Jones' son
Tom in the War. My father stuck with him till peace declared--had to do it.

"They was thirteen of us chillun and they is all gone but me, and I'll soon be gone.

"I know when the Yankees come I run from em. When peace declared, the Yankees come all through
our house and took everything they could get hold of to eat.

"The only reason the Yankees whipped the South was they starved em.

"I know one time when peace declared I caught afire and I run and jumped in a tub of water
and I had sense enough not to tell my mother. A girl I was raised up with went and told her though.

"After freedom I worked for old Judge Jones on the half system. He give me everthing that was
due me. When he was eighty years old, he called all his old tenants up and give em a mule and
twenty-five dollars. He was pretty good to em after all.

"I went to free school in the summertime after the crops was laid by, I can read and write
pretty good.

"I came here to Jefferson County in 'eighty-six and I put in thirty-six years at the Cotton
Belt Shops. When that strike come on they told us colored folks to quit and I never went back.
I worked for em when she was a narrow gauge.

"I worked in the North three years. I nightwatched all over St. Louis and Madison, Illinois.
I liked it fine up there--white folks is more familiar up there and seems like you can get
favors. If I don't get somethin' here, I'm goin' back up there.

"When I got big enough I voted the Republican ticket and after they got this primary. I think
the colored people ought to vote now cause they make em pay taxes.

"I'll tell you right now, the younger generation is goin' to the dogs. We'll never make a nation
of em as long as they go out to these places at night. They ought to be a law passed. When
nine o'clock comes they ought to be home in bed, but they is just gettin' started then.

"I belong to the Catholic Church. I think it's a pretty good church. We have a white priest
and I'll tell you one thing thing--you can't get a divorce and marry again and stay in the
Catholic Church."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Dora Richard
                    3301 W. 14th Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born in South Carolina and I was my mother's baby chile.

"Jacob Foster was our old master and he sold my mother over in east Tennessee. Now of cose
she wasn't put upon the block and sold. She was the house woman and spin and wove. After they
sold her my father run off. Oh sure, they caught him and I know old mistress said, 'Now, Jacob,
if you want to go where Lydia is, you can go.' So they sold him near her.

"I stayed with the Fosters till peace was declared and ever'thing was declared free. Then my
father come after me.

"I can just sketch things. I try to forget it. My mother and father was pretty agreeable when
they was set free.

"In Tennessee we stayed at the foot of Lookout Mountain and I can remember seein' the cannon balls.

"Here's the way I want to tell you. Some of the white people are as good to the colored people
as they could be and some of em are mean. My own folks do so bad I'm ashamed of em.

"So many of the colored of the South have emigrated to the North. I have lived there and I
don't know why I'm here now.

"Some of my color don't like that about the Jim Crow Law, but I say if they furnish us a nice
comfortable coach I would rather be with my own people. And I don't care to go to the white
folks' church.

"My mother used to tell me how they used to hide behind trees so the boss man couldn't see
em when they was prayin' and at night put out the light and turn the pot down.

"I went to school in Tennessee. I never will forget it. I had a white teacher. He was in the
War and he had a leg shot off. I went through the sixth grade and was ready for the seventh
Ray's Arithmetic. I walked four miles there and four miles back--eight miles a day.

"I can remember too when my mother and father was baptized. I know mama come out of the water
a shoutin'. Oh, that was good times then. I felt better when I was under my mother cause when
I married my life was over. I raised about ten children.

"I remember when the Ku Klux come to my sister's house lookin' for her husband. I know I was
in the bed and I raised up. I was scared you know.

"When I hear some colored folks say they wish the old slavery times was back, I just knows
they is lazy. They don't want any responsibility."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jim Ricks
                    517 E. 22nd Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 79

"I was born in slavery times. I 'member runnin' from the Yankees when they wanted to carry
me off. Just devilin' me, you know. You know how little chillun was 'bout white folks in them days.

"I went to school three weeks and my daddy stopped me and put me to work.

"Old master was named Jimmie Ricks. They named me after him, I think.

"My mother said he was a mighty good master. Didn't 'low his niggers whipped.

"Yes'm, I was born and raised in Arkansas, down here in Calhoun County.

"I had a chance to learn but I was a rowdy. I wanted to hunt. I was a mighty huntsman.

"I was a good worker too. White folks was all stuck on me 'cause I was a good worker.

"I did farm work and then did public work after the crops was laid by. But now I got too old
to work.

"I seen the Ku Klux once or twice when they was Ku Klukin' around. Some of 'em would holler
'Kluk, kluk, kluk.' I was quite small, but I could remember 'am 'cause I was scared of 'em.

"I farmed all my life till year before last. I was a good farmer too.

"I used to vote years ago. I voted Republican. Yes ma'am.

"Younger generation ain't near like they was when I was young. I was well thought of. Couldn't
be out after sundown or they'd bump my head. My stepfather would give me a flailin'. I thought
he was mean to me but I see now he done right by whippin' me.

"I know in slavery times they got plenty of somethin' to eat. Old master fed us well."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Charlie Rigger
                    R.F.D., three miles, Palestine, Arkansas
Age: 85 plus, doesn't know age

"I was born six miles from Mounticellar close to the line of Morgan and Jasper County. Mother
belong to the Smiths. Her father was part Creek (Indian). They all was sold to Floyd Malone.
His wife was Betsy Malone. They had five children.

"When I was a child I lay under the loom day after day picking up the sickle. Ma was a cook
and a weaver too.

"Malone was a good man but his wife was one of 'em. She was a terrible piece of humanity. Father
was a farm hand. They had a gin, a shoe shop, and a blacksmith shop all on Floyd Malone's place.
I picked a little cotton before 'mancipation. Floyd Malone had to buy my mother to git her
where my father was.

"Some of the boys wore dresses till they was twelve or fifteen years old. One fellar rode a
mule or cow one the other to preaching. While he sit talking to his gal at the window a steer
cone up and et off his dress tail. Boys got to courting before they got to take off their long
shirts.

"They wasn't so good to mother. She run off several times. She went 'bout one and one-half
miles to her mother on the Compton place. They didn't whoop her. They promised her a whooping.
They whooped her and me too but I never knowed 'em to whoop my father. When they whoop my mother
I'd run off to place we lived and crawl under the house.

"We chillun had nothing to do wid coffee. We drunk milk out little bowls. We'd turn it up or
lap it out which one could do the best. They fed us. We'd ask for more till we got filled up.

"I recollect the soldiers come by in July 1863 or 1864 and back in December. I heard talk so
long 'fore they got there I knowed who they was. They took my oldest brother. He didn't want
to go. We never heard from him. He never come back. My white master hid out. He didn't go to
war. One son went and come back. It was the Yankees made my oldest brother go. The first crowd
in July swapped their wore-out scrub stock for our good stock. That second crowd cleaned them
out, took our hogs. Miss Betty had died 'fore they come in July. That second crowd come in
December. They cleaned out everything to eat and wear. They set the house 'fire several times
with paper and coal oil (kerosene). It went out every time. One told the captain. He come up
behind. It went out every time. He said, 'Let's move on.' They left it clean and bare. We didn't
like them. We had meat hid in the cellar. We got hungry that spring sure as you born.

"The old man married pretty soon after freedom. He married young to what he was.

"I didn't find much fault to slavery 'cepting the abuse. We et three times a day and now if
I get one piece I do well. Mother cooked, washed, ironed and spun four cuts a day. We all et
at the master's kitchen three times a day. We had thirty-two families. I've heard that ag'in
time and ag'in so as I recollect it till now. We didn't have to work no harder 'en we do now
if you have a living.

"Master waited till all there. He had a horn made sorter like a bugle for that business. Called
us to our meals. We stayed a year. Went to his brother's one year, then to Major Lane's big
farm. We had to work about the same as b'fore freedom. Not much change.

"The Ku Klux come 'round right smart. Some had on skin coverings, cow heads and horns. Some
wore white sheets and black dresses on white horses. They was scary looking. They would whoop
and kill too. I was too scared to get caught off at night.

"Mother died. I was traveling about. I spent thirteen months in Mississippi. Three winters
right in Memphis. I married in Mississippi. I left two daughters in Georgia. My wife died.
I come to Arkansas in 1902. I live all alone.

"This present generation is traveling too fast. It-is-to-be. Fast traveling and education.
Times not good as it always have been b'fore that last war (World War). When the white folks
start jowing we black folks suffers. It ain't a bit our fault. Education causes the black man
to see he is bit (cheated) but he better not say a word. It very good thing if it is used right.
Fast traveling is all right in its place. But too many is traveling and they all want to be
going. We got into pretty fast time of it now. It-is-to-be and it's getting shoved on faster."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Ida Rigley, Forrest City, Arkansas Age: 82

"I was born in Richmond, Virginia. Colonel Radford and Emma Radford owned my mother. They had
a older girl, Emma and Betty and three boys. I called her Miss Betty.

"My mother was Sylvia Jones and she had five children. Bill Jones was my father. He was a born
free man and a blacksmith at Lynchburg, Virginia in slavery times.

"He asked Colonel Radford could he come to see my mama and marry her. They had a wedding in
Colonel Radford's dining room and a preacher on the place married them. They told me. My father
was a Presbyterian preacher. I heard papa preach at Lynchburg. He had a white principle but
no white blood. I never knew him very much till long after freedom.

"Miss Betty Radford was raising me for a house girl. I was younger than her children. Mother
was a weaver for all on the place. Old aunt Caroline was the regular cook but my mother helped
to cook for hands he hired at busy seasons of the year. My sisters lived in the quarters and
mama slept with them. She helped them. They worked in the field some. They was careful not
to overwork young hands. They cooked down at the quarters. They had a real old man and woman
to set about and see after the children and feed them. The older children looked after the
babies. When Miss Betty went off visiting she would send me down there. I did love it.

"Emma and Betty went to school at Richmond in a buggy. They had a colored boy driver. He was
the carriage driver. Emma and Betty would play with me too. Miss Betty fed me all the time.
She made me a bonnet and I can't get shed of my bonnet yet. I got four bonnets now.

"When the white folks had a wedding it lasted a week. They had a second day dress and a third
day dress and had suppers and dinner receptions about among the kin folks. They had big chests
full of quilts and coverlets and counterpanes they been packing back. Some of them would have
big dances. A wedding would last a week, night and day.

"They had a farm right. We had peacocks, white guinea and big black turkeys, cows, sheep, goats,
hogs; he had deer. He kept their horns cut off and some of the cow's horns were off. We had
a acre in a garden and had roses and all kinds of flowers. I like flowers now. Tries to have
'em. They had a gin on the place. He raised corn, rye, cotton, and tobacco. The hands got their
supplies on Saturday. On rainy days all the women would knit, white and colored both. Miss
Betty knitted some at night in winter. They had a shop to sharpen and keep all the tools in.
A particular old man made the brooms and rakes.

"It seem like there wasn't so many flies. Miss Betty mixed up molasses and flour and poison
and killed flies sometimes. She spread it on brown paper. We had fly weed tea to set about
too sometimes. We didn't have to use anything regular. We didn't have no screens. We had mighty
few mosquitoes. We had peafowl fly brushes. They was mighty pretty.

"One thing we had was a deep walled well and an ice-house. They cut ice in blocks and put it
up for winter[HW:?]. We had one spring on the place I know.

"They kept hounds. Colonel Radford's boys and the colored boys all went hunting. We had 'possum
and potatoes all along in winter; 'possum grease won't make you sick. Eat all you want. I'd
hear their horn and the dogs. They would come in hungry every time. I never seen no whiskey.
He had his cider and vinegar press and made wine. We had cider and wine all along. Colonel
Radford was his own overseer and Charlie his oldest boy. They whooped mighty little. They would
stand up and be whooped. Some of the young ones was hard-headed and rude. He advised them and
they minded him pretty well.

"Our yards was large and beautiful; some had grass and some clean spots about in the shade.
Friday was wash day. Saturday was iron day. Miss Betty would go about in the quarters to see
if the houses was scrubbed every week after washing. They had to wear clean clothes and have
clean beds about her place. She'd shame them to death.

"Colonel Radford had a colored church for us all. It was a log house and he had a office for
his boys to read and write and smoke cob pipes in. The white folks' church was at the corner
of his place. I went there most. They shouted and pat their hands. Colonel Radford was a Baptist.

"Nearly every farm had a fiddler. Ever so often he had a big dance in their parlor. I'd try
to dance by myself. He had his own music by the hands on his place. He let them have dances
at the quarters every now and then. Dancing was a piece of his religion.

"I don't think our everyday frocks was stiffened but our dress up clothes was. It was made
out of flour--boiled flour starch. We had striped dresses and stockings too. We had checked
dresses. We had goobers and a chestnut grove. We had a huckleberry patch. We had maple sugar
to eat. It was good. We had popcorn and chinquapins in the fall of the year, I used to pick
up chips to use at the pot. I had a little basket. I picked up corn cobs. They burnt them and
made corn cob soda to use in the bread and cakes. We parched peeled sweet potatoes slice thin
and made coffee.

"The Civil War was terrible. One morning before we was all out of bed the Yankees come. It
was about daylight. He and the three boys were there. They didn't burn any houses and they
didn't hesitate but they took everything. They took all Miss Betty's nice silverware. They
took fine quilts and feather beds. That was in the fall of the year. They drove off a line
of our slaves (a block long) fer as from me to that railroad. Made them go. They walked fast
in front of the cavalrymen. They took mama and my sisters. She got away from them with her
girls and found her way back to papa at Lynchburg.

"Colonel Radford went and took some of the slave men and his boys. They brought home plenty
beds and a barrel of salt. He brought back plenty. He sent his slave man to town any time.
They had no notion leaving.

"One time some Yankees come. I run hid around Miss Betty's long dress. She was crying. They
was pulling her rings off her fingers. I told them to quit that. One of the mean things said,
'Little nigger, I shoot your head off.' They took all her nice clothes. They said they took
all niggers. I sassed them. They went in another room. I shot under Miss Betty's big skirt.
They looked about for me but they thought I run off to my mama. She was gone but they didn't
know it. I seen my best times then. We had a good time there. Miss Betty was good and kind
to me. Good as I wanted. I wish I had that good now.

Freedom

"The soldiers come and I knowed it was the Yankees I hated. They took all they could find and
wasted a lot of it. I was scared. I kept hid about. The slaves put their beds and clothes up
on the wagons and went off behind them and some clumb up in the wagons. I heard Miss Betty
say, 'They need not follow them off, they are already free.' The way she said it, like she
was heart broken, made me nearly cry and I remember her very words till this day. She was a
good woman.

"Mama come and got me long time after that and I didn't want to go nor stay neither. It was
like taking me off from my own home. Papa was freeborn and freedom I couldn't understand till
I was long grown. I never got a whooping in my life. I was taught politeness.

"During slavery we bought mighty little. Flour in barrels, salt. We had Maple sugar and sorghum
molasses in bounty. We was happy and had plenty to eat and wear.

"I learned to make the fine cakes from a Jew woman (Jewess), Mrs. Isaac. I've been called a
cook here in Forrest City. I was taught by Mrs. Isaac to make angel food, coffee cake, white
bread and white cakes. From that I made the other kinds my own self."

Interviewer's Comment

People in Forrest City send for Ida and keep her a week or two baking Christmas and wedding cakes.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Milton Ritchie
                    R.F.D., Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I was born in Marietta Hotel at Marietta, Georgia. The hotel belong to Milton Stevens. He
had two sons. One died fo I was born and Pink was in the war. Mistress Thursday was old moster's
wife. We all had to refugee. My sister was down in the bottoms with all the slaves and cattle
when she died. She took sick and died suddenly. They heard the soldiers was coming to Atlanta
and knowed they would come by Marietta. Moster Stevens sold the hotel just at the beginning
of the war. He moved to the country. Mama cooked at the hotel and in the country both. The
hotel was a brick house on the railroad where they fed a lot of people every day. Moster Milton
used to take me bout where he went, rode me on his foot when I was a baby. After they went
to the farm every evening Mistress Thursday come get me, take me to the house. She got bread
and butter, sugar, give it to me and I slept on a pallet in her room. I never did know why
she done that. Mama had a little house she slept in. She cooked. They never whooped me. They
never whooped mama.

"One time the Federal army camped not a great ways from us. One time I was playing in a gully--big
red ditch. I spied the Federals coming. I flew out the ditch up the hill and across the field.
They was calvary men camped back of our field. We all left that place and refugeed to another
place. They didn't burn the house but they sent two bullets through the walls or that house.
'Old Granny' was too old to refugee. She kept living by herself in a house on the place. They
never bothered her. She wasn't kin to us but Moster Milton owned her and kept her fed. We raised
sugar-cane, hogs, corn, and goobers. The sugar-cane had no top. I got a whooping every Monday.
Mama whoop me. We go drink sugar-cane juice in the trough at the mill. We got up in there with
our feet. They had to wash out the troughs. It was a wood house. It was a big mill. He sold
that good syrup in Atlanta. It wasn't sorghum. The men at the mill would scare us but we hid
around. They come up to the house and tell on us.

"We had moved from the farm when they burned Atlanta. From the place where Moster Milton refugeed
I could hear a roaring all the time nearly, sometimes clearer, and the roaring was broke sometimes.

"Moster Milton ran the farm when he run the hotel cept I was born at the hotel and Mistress
Thursday lived there then too. He had all Negro overseers. Each overseer had a certain lot
of hands to do what he told them. He didn't have no trouble. He told them if they made something
for them and him too it would be fine, if they didn't work they would have to do without. They
had plenty they said.

"My mama was sold on the block in Virginia when she was twelve years old. She and her little
brother sold the same day. Moster Milton Stevens bought her. The same man couldn't buy them
both, didn't have money enough. They had a little blanket and she and her brother cut it into
and put it around their shoulders. They been sleeping together and Moster Milton brought her
home on his horse up behind him. Her mama was crying when she left her. She never heard nor
seen none of her folks no more she told me. (The old Negro cried.)

"My mama and papa was dark but both was mixed. They never told me if it was white or Indian.
Papa was a tall, big bony man. Mama wasn't so big and stouter. He never tried to get away from
his owners. He belong to Sam Ritchie five or six miles away. I never beard much about them.
They had Negro overseers. Papa was a foreman. He tanned the cow hides and made shoes for all
the hands on Ritchie's place. He made our shoes over there too. They said Stevens and Ritchies
didn't keep bad dogs. Mistress Eliza Ritchie was a Stevens before she married. Papa never was
sold. He said they was good to them. Mama was named Eliza too and papa George Ritchie.

"When freedom was on papa went to Atlanta and got transportation to Chattanooga. I don't know
why. He met me and mama. She picked me up and run away and met him. We went in a freight box.
It had been a soldier's home--great big house. We et on the first story out of tin pans. We
had white beans or peas, crackers and coffee. Meat and wheat and cornbread we never smelt at
that place. Somebody ask him how we got there and he showed them a ticket from the Freedmans
bureau in Atlanta. He showed that on the train every now and then. Upstairs they brought out
a stack of wool blankets and started the rows of beds. Each man took his three as he was numbered.
Every night the same one got his own blankets. The room was full of beds and white guards with
a gun over his shoulder guarded them all night long. We stayed there a long time--nearly a
year. They tried to get jobs fast as they could and push em out but it was slow work. Mama
got a place to cook at--Mrs. Crutchfield's. She run a hotel in town but lived in the country.
We stayed there about a year. Papa was hired somewhere else there.

"Papa got us on a farm in middle Tennessee after that. We come to Mr. Hooper's place and share
cropped one year, then we went to share crop for Wells Brothers close to Murfreesboro. I been
on the farm all my life since then.

"The Ku Klux never pestered us. I heard about them.

"The Welfare helps me and I would do work if I could get work I can do. I could do light work.
Times is hard. Hard to get a living. I don't mind work. I couldn't do a day's work now.

"The young generation is beyond me. I don't be about them much."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Alice Rivers
                    W. 17th, Highland Addition, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"Yes'm, I remember when the Yankees come. I ricollect when they throwed out all the meat from
old master's smokehouse. The colored folks was tryin' to ketch it and I know I tried to ketch
it too.

"Don't I look like I been here in Reb. time? I was born in Mississippi on Colonel Reed's place
in 1857.

"I just know the Yankees come through. Had on blue coats with gold lookin' buttons. I never
will forget it 'cause it was so frightening.

"I can ricollect way back there.

"I don't know whether the white folks was good or not, we hardly ever saw 'em. Had a old woman
that cooked for the chillun at the quarters. I ricollect they had a big old kittle and she'd
cook that full of somethin'. I know the old lady give us plenty of somethin' to eat.

"All the white folks didn't treat their hands mean. Some of 'em was a fool 'bout them little
niggers.

"Old woman what cooked for the chillun was old Aunt Henie and she walked half bent with a stick.

"I went to school some after freedom. Learned how to spell and read but not much writin'.

"I can't tell you 'bout no whippin's 'cause if they whipped the folks they didn't do it at
the quarters where the chillun was.

"I been farmin' all my life till I come to Arkansas in 1916. Since then I first cooked and
washed. I ain't worked out in three years now.

"I gets a little pension from the Welfare and I make out on that. My granddaughter lives with
me. She will finish high school in May and then she can take care of herself.

"I used to own this place but it was sold for taxes. Don't make any difference if you is as
old as Methuselah you got to pay them taxes. Old Caeser started 'em and we've had to pay 'em
ever since.

"Younger generation ain't mannerly now like they was when I was young. Chillun used to be obedient
but they got to have their way now. Old folks done put the chillun where they is now and they
ought to take care of 'em.

"I don't know where the world gwine come to in the next five years. I reckon they'll all be
dead way they're gwine now. Storms takin' 'em away here and war in them other countries."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: J. Roberts, Brinkley, Arkansas Age: 45
or 50 Occupation: Methodist preacher

"My father was a Federal soldier in the Civil War. He was from Winston, Virginia. He went to
war and soon after the end he came to Holly Grove. He was in Company "K". He signed up six
or seven papers for men in his company he knew and they all got their pensions. Oh yes! He
knew them. He was an awful exact honest man. He was a very young man when he went into the
war and never married till he come to Arkansas. He married a slave woman. She was a field woman.
They farmed. Father sat by the hour and told how he endured the war. He never expected to come
out alive after a few months in the war.

"John Roberts Collins was his owner in slavery. I never heard why he cut off the Collins. I
call my own self J. Roberts."

"The present times are hard times. Sin hath caused it all. Machinery has taken so much of the
work."

"The present generation are fair folks but wild. Yes, the young folks today are wilder than
my set was. I can't tell you how but I see it every way I go."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: George Robertson? or George Robinson?
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 81

"My papa named Abe Robertson. His owner named Tom Robertson. I was born in middle Tennessee.
My mama named Isabela Brooks. Her master named Billy Brooks. His wife name Mary Brooks. My
master boys come through here six years ago wid a tent show. My papa went off wid the Yankees.
Last I seed of him he was in Memphis. They took my mama off when I was a baby to Texas to keep
the Yankees from gettin' her. My grandma raised me. We stayed on the big plantation till 1880.

"I don't want no Sociable Welfare help till I ain't able to work. I don't want none now."

(To be continued) [TR: no continuation found.]

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Augustus Robinson
                    2500 W. Tenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I was born in Calhoun County, Arkansas in 1860, January 15th. I am going according to what
my daddy told me and nothing else. That is all I could do.

How the Children Were Fed

"My grandmother on my mother's side said when I was a little fellow that she was a cook and
that she would bring stuff up to the cabin where the little niggers were locked up and feed
them through the crack. She would hide it underneath her apron. She wasn't supposed to do it.
All the little niggers were kept in one house when the old folks were working in the field.
There were six or seven of us.

Sold

"My daddy was a white man, my master. His wife was so mean to me that my master sold me to
keep her from beating me and kicking me and knocking me 'round. She would have killed me if
she could have got the chance. He [HW: My daddy] sold me to a preacher who raised me as though
I were his own son. Whenever he sat down to the table to eat, I sat down. He made no difference
at all. He raised me in El Dorado, Arkansas. His name was James Goodwin. He sent me to school too.

Visited by Father

"When Harrison and Cleveland ran for President, my [HW: white] father came to Little Rock.
Some colored people had been killed in the campaign fights, and he had been summoned to Little
Rock to make some statements in connection with the trouble. He stopped at a prominent hotel
and had me to come to see him. When I went up to the hotel to meet him, there were a dozen
or more white men at that place. When I shook hands with him, he said, 'Gentlemen, he's a little
shady but he's my son.' His name was Captain I.T. Robinson. He lived in Lisbon, Arkansas.

Mother

"My mother's name was Frances Goodwin. She belonged to Captain Robinson. I don't know but I
think that when they came to Arkansas, they came from Georgia. They were refugees. When the
War started, people that owned niggers ran from state to state to try to hold their niggers.

House

"I lived right in the yard. We had four houses in the yard and three of them was made of logs
and one was made out of one-by-twelve planks. I lived in the one made out of planks. It had
one big room. I reckon it was about twenty by fifteen, more than that, I reckon. It was a big
room. There [HW: were] two doors and no windows. We had old candlesticks for lights. We had
old homemade tables. All food was kept in the smokehouse and the pantry. The food house and
the smokehouse were two of the log cabins in the yard.

Schooling

"Goodwin schooled me. [TR: First sentence lined out.] He had a teacher to come right on the
place and stay there teaching. He raised me and brought me up just as though I was his own child.

"I remember getting one whipping. I didn't get it from Mr. Goodwin though. His brother gave
it to me. His brother sent me to get a horse. An old hound was laying in the way on the saddle
and the bridle. He wouldn't move so I picked up the bridle and hit him with it. He hollered
and master's brother heard him and gave me a whipping. That is the only whipping I ever got
when I was small.

Ku Klux

"I heard of the Ku Klux Klan but I don't know that I ever seen them. I never noticed what effect
they had on the colored people. I just heard people talking about them.

Occupational Experiences

"The first work I did was farming--after the War. I farmed,--down close to El Dorado, about
six miles away from there. I kept that up till I was about seventeen or eighteen years old
or somewheres about there. That was on James Goodwin's place--my last master, the man who raised
me. Then I left him and came to Little Rock. I don't remember in what year. I went to school
here in Little Rock. I had already had some schooling. My grandmother sent me. The school I
went to was called the Union School. It was down on Sixth Street. After I left there, I went
to Capitol Hill School. I was going to school during the Brooks-Baxter War. The statehouse
was on Markham Street and Center. My grandmother's name was Celie Robinson. She went by the
name of her owner.

"After I had gone to school several years--I don't remember just how many--I worked down town
about ten or eleven years. Then I went to railroading. First I was with the Iron Mountain and
Southern. Later, it changed its name to the Missouri Pacific. I worked for them from 1891 to
1935. On August 29th I received my last pay check. I have tried ever since to get my railroad
pension to which my years of service entitle me but have been unable to get it. The law concerning
the pension seems to have passed on the same day I received my last check, and although I worked
for forty-four years and gave entire satisfaction, there has been a disposition to keep me
from the pension. While in service I had my jaw broken in two pieces and four front teeth knocked
out by a piece of flying steel.

"Another man was handling the steam hammer. I was standing at my regular place doing my regular
work. When that happened, I was cut down like a weed. There wasn't a man ever thought they
would see me in that job again after that piece of steel cut me down.

"Also, I lost my right eye in the service when a hot cinder from the furnace flew in it while
I was doing my regular work. Then I was ruptured because of the handling of heavy pieces of
iron at my work. I still wear the truss. You can see the places where my jaw was broke and
you can see where my teeth were knocked out.

"Out of all the ups and downs, I stuck to the company just the same until they retired me in
1935 because of old age. The retirement board wanted to know when I asked for a pension, why
did I think I was entitled to a pension? I told them because I had been injured through service
with the company and had honorably finished so long a period of service. It is now admitted
that I am eligible to a railroad pension but there seems to still be a delay in paying it for
some reason or other.

Support Now

"I get a little assistance from the Welfare, and I get some commodities. If it wasn't for that,
I would be broke up."

[HW: Brooks-Baxter War was about 1872-74.]

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Malindy Robinson
                    8th Street, West Memphis, Arkansas
Age: 61

"I was born in Wilkerson County, Mississippi. My ma never was sold, She said she was eleven
years old when peace was declared. Master Sims was grandma's owner. Grandpa was never sold.
He was born in Mississippi. He was a mulatto man. He was a man worked about the house and grandma
was a field woman. She said she never was whooped but worked mighty hard. They was good to
grandma. She lived in the quarters. My parents b'long to the same owner. But far as I ever
knowed they married long after freedom. They was raised close to Woodville, Mississippi."

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person interviewed: Tom Robinson Aged: 88 Home: Lives with his
son on outskirts of Hot Springs

As I entered Goldstein Grade school for colored I passed an old fellow sitting on the sidewalk.
There was somthing of that venerable, dignified, I've-been-a-slave look about him, so much
of it that I almost stopped to question him. Inside I entered a classroom, where a young woman
was in conference with a couple of sheepish youngsters who had been kept in after school.

Did she know the whereabouts of any ex-slaves? She beamed. Only the other day an old man had
appeared on the school grounds. She appealed to her charges. Didn't they remember that she
had told them about him and about what slavery had meant. Sheepish looks were gone. They were
agog with interest. Yes 'um, they remembered. But none of the three knew his name or where
to find him.

Another teacher entered the room. No, she couldn't remember the name. But the old man often
came up to watch the children at play. He said it made him happy to see them getting opportunities
he never could have had. Wait a minute--he might be outside at this very moment. A clatter
of heels and calls of triumph. "Yes! Yes! Here he is!"

Outside I dashed to drop flat on the sidewalk[HW:?] beside the aged man I had passed a few
minutes before. Out came my smile and a notebook. With only a few preliminaries and amenities
the interview was in full swing. It neither startled nor confused him, to have an excited young
woman plant herself on a public sidewalk at his side and demand his life's story. A man who
had belonged to three different masters before the age of 15 was inured to minor surprises.
Tom Robinson long since learned to take life as it came.

He is quite deaf in one ear and hears poorly with the other. Nobody within a quarter of a block
could have been in doubt of what was going on. A youth moved closer. The kept-after-school
pair emerged from the building and stood near us, goggle-eyed thruout the interview. When we
were finished, Robinson turned to the children and gave them, a grandfatherly lecture about
taking advantage of their opportunities, a lecture in which the white woman sitting beside
him joined heartily--drawing liberally on comments of ex-slaves in recent interviews concerning
the helplessness felt in not being able to write and read letters from well loved friends.

"Where was I born, ma'am? Why it's my understanding that it was Catawba County, North Carolina.
As far as I remember, Newton was the nearest town. I was born on a place belonging to Jacob
Sigmens. I can just barely remember my mother. I was not 11 when they sold me away from her.
I can just barely remember her.

"But I do remember how she used to take us children and kneel down in front of the fireplace
and pray. She'd pray that the time would come when everybody could worship the Lord under their
own vine and fig tree--all of them free. It's come to me lots of times since. There she was
a'praying, and on other plantations women was a'praying. All over the country the same prayer
was being prayed. Guess the Lord done heard the prayer and answered it.

"Old man Sigmens wasn't a bad master. Don't remember so much about him. I couldn't have been
11 when he sold me to Pickney Setzer. He kept me for a little while and then he sold me to
David Robinson. All three of them lived not so far apart in North Carolina. But pretty soon
after he bought me old men Dave Robinson moved to Texas. We was there when the war started.
We stayed there all during the war. I was set free there.

"We lived in Cass County. It was pretty close to the Arkansas border, and 'twasn't far from
Oklahoma--as is now. I remember well when they was first gathering them up for the war. We
used to hear the cannon often. Was I afraid? To be sure I was scared, right at first. Pretty
soon we got used to it. Somebody even made up a song, 'Listen to the Home-made Thunder'. They'd
sing it every time the cannon started roaring.

"No, ma'am, there never was any fighting right around us. I never really saw any fighting.
Old man Dave Robinson was good to me. He didn't have a big farm--just owned me. Treated me
almost like I was one of his own children. Course, I had to work. Sometimes he whipped me--but
no more than he had to. I was just a child and any child has got to be made to mind. He was
good to me, and old Miss was good to me. All my masters was pretty good to me--lots better
than the usual run. Which one I like the best. Well, you might know. I kept the name Robinson,
and I named my son Dave. You might know which one I think the most of.

"One day I was out milking the cows. Mr. Dave come down into the field, and he had a paper
in his hand. 'Listen to me, Tom,' he said, 'listen to what I reads you.' And he read from a
paper all about how I was free. You can't tell how I felt. 'You're jokin' me.' I says. 'No,
I ain't,' says he. 'You're free.' 'No,' says I, 'it's a joke.' 'No,' says he, 'it's a law that
I got to read this paper to you. Now listen while I read it again.'

"But still I wouldn't believe him. 'Just go up to the house,' says he, 'and ask Mrs. Robinson.
She'll tell you.' so I went. 'It's a joke,' I says to her. 'Did you ever know your master to
tell you a lie?' she says. 'No,' says I, 'I ain't.' 'Well,' she says, 'the war's over and you're
free.'

"By that time I thought maybe she was telling me what was right. 'Miss Robinson,' says I, 'can
I go over to see the Smiths?'--they was a colored family that lived nearby. 'Don't you understand,'
says she, 'you're free. You don't have to ask me what you can do. Run along child.'

"And so I went. And do you know why I was a'going? I wanted to find out if they was free too."
(a chuckle and toothy smile) "I just couldn't take it all in. I couldn't believe we was all
free alike.

"Was I happy? Law Miss. You can take anything. No matter how good you treat it--it wants to
be free. You can treat it good and feed it good and give it everything it seems to want--but
if you open the cage--it's happy.

"What did I do after the war was over? I farmed. I farmed all my life, 'til I got too old.
I stopped three--four years ago. I lives with my son--Dave Robinson--the one I named for my master.

"How did I farm? Did I share crop? No, ma'am!" (Sharply as tho repramanding the inquirer for
an undeserved insult.) "I didn't share crop, except just at first to get a start. I rented.
I paid thirds and fourths. I always rented. I wasn't a share-cropper.[A]

[A: Socially and economically sharp distinctions are drawn between the different classes of
renters, both by owners and tenants themselves. Families whom ambition and circumstances have
allowed to accumulate enough surplus to buy farm implements and have food for a year ahead
look with scorn on fellow farmers who thru inertia or bad luck must be furnished food and the
wherewithall to farm. In turn, families that have forged ahead sufficiently to be able to pay
cash rent on farms they cultivate look down On both of the other groups.]

"It was awful hard going after the war. But I got me a place--had to share-crop for a year
or two. But I worked hard and saved all I could. Pretty soon I had me enough that I could rent.
I always raised the usual things--cotton and corn and potatoes and a little truck and that
sort of thing--always raised enough to eat for us and the stock--and then some cotton for a
cash crop.

"My first wife, well it was kind of funny; I wasn't more than 19. She had 11 children. Some
of them was older than I was. No ma'am it wasn't so hard on me. They was all old enough to
take care of themselves. I lived with that woman for 17 years. Then she died.

"I been married five times. Three of my children are living. One's here--that's Dave. Then
there's one in Texarkana and there's one in Kansas City. Two of my children's dead. The youngest
died just about last year. All my wives are dead.

"Almost every day I comes up to sit here and watch the children. It does me good to see 'em.
Makes me feel good all over to think about all the fine chance they has to get a good education.
Sonny, you hear me? You pay attention too, sonny. I'm watching you--you and all the other little
boys. You mind me. You learn all you can. You ought to be so thankful you allowed to learn
that you work hard. You mind me, sonny. When you're grown up, you'll know what I'm talking
about--and know I'm right. Run along, sonny. No use hanging around the school yard too long."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Isom Rogers, Edmondson, Arkansas Age: 67

"I was born in Tunica County, Austin, Mississippi. I been in Edmondson, Arkansas ten years.
I come to do better. Said farming was good here. My folks' owners was Master Palmer and George
Rogers. My parents was never sold. They was young folks in slavery time and at time of freedom.
They was farm hands. Their names was Pat and Ely Rogers.

"I heard him say he made palings and went 'round mending the fences when the ground was froze.
He made boards to cover the houses with too--I heard him say. He was strong and worked all
the time at some jobs. Never heard mother say very much.

"I been farming and I have worked on quarter-boat and back farming. I been here ten years."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Oscar James Rogers, Wheatley, Arkansas
Age: Up in 70's

"I come to dis state in 1885. I run off from my parents back in North Carolina. They was working
in a turpentine forest there.

"When freedom was declared my folks heard 'bout a place where money was easy to make. So they
walked from down close to Charleston up there and carried the children. I was 'bout nine or
ten years old. I liked the farm so I left the turpentine farm. I got to rambling round and
finally got to Arkansas. I run off from my folks cause they kept staying there. I was a child
and don't recollect much 'bout slavery. I was at the quarters wid all the children. My mother
b'longed to Bob Plat and my father to a man named Rogers. My father could get a pass and come
to see us every Sunday providin' he didn't go nowhere else or stop long the road. He came early
and stay till bedtime. We all run to meet him. He kiss us all in bed when he be leavin'.

"I heard them say they 'spected a home and freedom but when the time come they master forgot
'bout home cause they just took the few clothes in bundles and left. Then they had a hard time
'cause they never thought how freedom would be. They never axed for nothin' and they never
got nothin'. They didn't understand how to hustle lest somebody tell them what to do next.
They did have a hard time and it was cold and rocky up in North Carolina to what they had been
used to down close to Charleston.

"When I got out to Arkansas I like it better than any country I seed and I say 'I'm stayin'
here.' I meant to go back but I married and didn't get no money ahead for a long time. Then
I had a family of 11 children. Jes' 'fore I married I got to go to school four months' close
to Cotton Plant, where I married.

"When I was young I sho could knock off de work. I cummulated 80 acres land in Lee County.
I paid $900 for it, got in debt and had let it fur 'bout ($247.50) Two hundred forty-seven
and a half dollars. All I got outen it. I had a bad crop and had a little provision bill. I
made on time, man agreed to run me on then took it 'bout all.

"Then I still was a strong man an' we bought 40 acres 14 miles from Cotton Plant and I had
it 27 years. Then lost it.

"My second wife owned a house and garden at Wheatley half a mile or so from town. We live over
there. Our children all gone. She say she cooked and washed and farmed for it. It cost $100.00.

"I could do heap work if I could get it. Old man can't get 'nuff regular work to cover my house
or buy me a suit closes. The Government gives me $10.00 a month. That's a help out but it don't
go fir high as provisions is. Me an' the old woman both too feeble to do much hard work. I
gets all the odd jobs the white folks give me. Misses, I ain't lazy, I jess gettin' old and
not able to hold out to do much. Whut I could do they give it to the young fellows cause they
do it in a hurry.

"I used to vote right smart when they needed me to help out. I voted for Hoover. Don't think
it right the way the men settin' round and deir wives workin' fer livin' and votin'. The women
can vote if they want to but I don't think it right. Seems lack the cart in front ob de horse now.

"It wouldn't do no more good to vote in the Primary than it do in the General election. It
don't do much good nohow.

"Fur as I ever knowed the slaves had no uprisin's. They thought well enough of their masters.
Everybody worked then hard as they could. The master he worked all time in the shop making
things jess like he needed, boards and handles, plows and things. Missus, everybody worked
hard dem days, both black and white, and that is the reason folks had plenty. The old grandmas
done work whut suited them and helped out. Now lack me, I can't get the right work whut I able
to do 'nuff to keep me livin'. It is bad.

"If times was bad as they was few years ago all old folks done been rotten, starved to death.
Times is better but they sho ain't all right yet.

"This young generation livin' so fast they stop thinkin'. They do well to keep livin' their
selves. They wastes a heap they outer save fur rainy days. They ain't takin' no advice from
old folks. I don't know whut goiner become of them."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Will Ann Rogers
                    R.F.D., Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 70

"I was born three years after the surrender. I was born at Fryers Point, Mississippi. The reason
I ain't got the exact date when I was born, my ma put it down in the Bible and the house burned
up and everything in it burned to ashes. No mam she got somebody what could write real nice
to write all the names and ages for her.

"When ma was a young woman, she said they put her on a block and sold her. They auctioned her
off at Richmond, Virginia. When they sold her, her mother fainted or drapped dead, she never
knowed which. She wanted to go see her mother lying over there on the ground and the man what
bought her wouldn't let her. He just took her on. Drove her off like cattle, I recken. The
man what bought her was Ephram Hester. That the last she ever knowed of any of her folks. She
say he mated 'em like stock so she had one boy. He livin' down here at Helena now. He is Mose
Kent. He was born around Richmond, Virginia jes' lack dat she say.

"When it nearly 'bout time for freedom a whole army of Yankees come by and seed Mose working.
They told him if he come go wid them they give him that spotted horse and pair red boots. He
crawled up on the horse an' was gone wid 'em for a fact she said. She started right after them,
following him. She followed them night and day. She nearly starved, jess begged 'long the road
all she could. I heard her say how fast she have to walk to keep on trail of 'em and how many
nights. She say some nights when they camped she would beg 'round and try to fill up. But she
couldn't get to Mose without them seein' her. When they got to Fryers Point she went an' got
him. They jess laughed and never give him nuthin'. They left that army fast as they could she say.

"She married at Fryers Point. She had jes' one boy and I had four or five sisters. They all
dead but me and Mose. He think he 'bout ninety years old. He come here to see me last year.
He sho is feeble.

"How come I here? When I was fourteen years old my family heard how fine this State was and
moved to Helena. I lived at Moro and Cotton Plant. Then, the way I come here was funny. A man
come up there and say a free train was comin' to go back to Africa. All who wanted to go could
go. My pa sold out 'bout all we had an' we come here lack they say. No train come yet goin'
to Africa as I seed. My pa give the white man $5.00 to pay fer the train. Tom Watson was one
of 'em too. He was a sorter leader 'mong 'em wantin' to go back. Well when the day come that
the train due to start everybody come to the depot whar the train going to stop. There was
a big crowd. Yes mam, dressed up, and a little provisions and clothes fixed up. Jes' could
take along a little. They say it would be crowded so. We stayed around here a week or two waitin'
to hear somethin' or be ready to go. Most everybody stayed prutty close to the depot for two
or three days. Yes mam there sho was a crowd--a whole big train full from here 'sides the other
places. I jes' stayed here an' been here ever since. The depot agent, he told 'em he didn't
know 'bout no train going to Africa. The tickets was no good on his trains.

"How I owns this place, I'll tell you. A man here had all dis land 'round here (Negro town)
laid off. He couldn't sell none of his lots. They wouldn't buy his lots. So he got after me.
We had made a good crop, so I got up the money and bought this place. One hundred dollars is
what I give him. Others then started to settlin' in and about close to my place.

"I guess it was Spotsells in Virginia what raised her. She say her name was Lizzie Spotsell
Johnson. Then when Ephram Hester bought her they learned her to do about in their house. She
cooked and swept and knocked flies and tended to the children. She stayed with 'em a pretty
long time till she run off and went to Fryers Point.

"She may have told us about the Nat Turner rebellion but I don't remember it. They sung a lot
in my mother's time. Seemed lack they was happier than we are somehow. She sung religious songs
and one or two field songs. I don't recollect 'em now.

"I never did vote. I never cared nuthin' about it. Some of 'em 'round here wouldn't miss votin'
for nothin'.

"Lawd me, chile, the times is done run ahead of me now. I'm so fur behind I never expect to
catch up. I don't pay no more attention to the young folks, the way they act now, 'an I do
my little dog there. They don't want no advice and I would be afraid I would 'vise 'em wrong.
When my children come I tell 'em you are grown and you knows right from wrong. Do right. That's
all I know to say.

"The way I am supported is my husband gets all the jobs he able to do and can and the governmint
give me an' him $10 a month. We has a little garden."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: William Henry Rooks
                    Baptist Preacher; Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 84

The slaves didn't spect nothing but freedom. Jes freedom! In Africa they was free as wild animals
and then they was so restricted. Jes put in bondage for no reason at all.

No plantations was divided. I was born a slave and I remembers right smart how it was.

My master was John Freeman and his wife's name was Fannie. I went to Como, Mississippi twice
a week to get the mail all durin the war. It was eight miles. I rode a pony.

If you go to church you have to have a pass from the master. The pattyrollers see you and you
have to show it to them. It was just a note. If you didn't have it they take or send you home.
If they catch you any more without a pass they whip you. They come to the church and in all
public places like the police stands around now. They rode around mostly. Sometimes they went
in droves.

They would let you go visiting sometimes and exchange work. Some masters was good and some
was mean jess like they are now and some slaves good and some bad. That is the way they are now.

Some of the white men had a hundred slaves and had plenty money. The war broke nearly all of
them. The very worse thing I ever knowed about it was some white men raised hands to sell like
they raise stock now. It was hard to have your child took off and never see or hear tell of
it. Mean man buy it and beat it up. Some of them was drove off to be sold at auction at New
Orleans. That was where some took them cause they could get big money for them.

I never knowed of a master to give the slaves a dime when they become free. They never promissed
them nothing. The Yankees might have to toll them off. The hands all stayed on John Freeman's
place and when it was over he give them the privilege of staying right on in their houses.
Some left after awhile and went somewhere they thought they could do better.

They didn't have the Ku Klux but it was bout like it what they had. They wore caps shine de
coons eye and red caps and red garments. Red symbolize blood reason they wore red. They broke
up our preaching. Some folks got killed. Some was old, some young--old devlish ones. They was
like a drove of varments. I guess you be scared. They run the colored folks away from church
a lot of times. That was about equalization after the freedom. That was the cause of that.

There was uprisings like I'm telling you but the colored folks didn't have nothing to go in
a gun if he had one. White folks make them give up a gun.

The first votin I done I was workin for young Henry Larson back in Mississippi. He give my
mother $120 a year to cook for his young wife and give her what she eat and I worked on his
farm. He told me to go vote, it was election day. I ask him how was I going to know how to
vote. I could read a little. I couldn't write. The ballot box was at Pleasant Mount. Ozan set
over the box. He was a Yankee. He was the only one kept the box. It was a wooden box nailed
up and a slit in the top. A.R. Howe and Captain Howe was two more Yankee white men there watching
round all day. Ozan was the sheriff at Sardis, Mississippi soon after the war. Some more colored
folks come up to vote. We stood around and watched. We saw D. Sledge vote; he owned half of
the county. We knowed he voted Democrat so we voted the other ticket so it would be Republican.
I voted for President Grant. I don't believe in women voting. They used to have the Australian
Ballot System. It's a heap more the man that's elected than it is the party. We all voted for
Hoover; he was a Republican and foe he got one term served out we was about on starvation.
I ain't voted since. That President claim to be a Democrat. He ain't no Democrat. I don't know
what he be.

I been farming and preaching. I started preaching in Mississippi. I joined the conference in
Arkansas in 1886 and started preaching at Surrounded Hill (Biscoe). I come here in 1884 from
Pinola County. Mississippi. I had some stock and they was fencing up everything over there.
I had no land so I come to an open country. It wasn't long before they fenced it in. I come
to Brinkley and worked for Gun and Black sawmill and I been here forty or fifty years. I don't
know jess how long. I couldn't starve to death in a whole year here. The people wouldn't let
me. I got lot of friends, both black and white, here.

I married December 17, 1874 in the Baptist church. Glasco Wilson was the preacher married me.
My wife died here in dis house nine years ago. We had ten children but jes two livin now. My
girl married a preacher and live at Hope. Arkansas. My son preaches in Parson, Kansas.

I supports my own self. I works and I preaches a little yet. I saved up some money but it nearly
give out. The young generation, some of them, do mighty bad. Some of them is all right. Some
of them don't do much and don't save nothing. I owns this house and did own another one what
burned down. A lamp exploded and caught it while I was going off up the road but I never looked
back or I would have seen it. It seem lack now it takes more money to do than it ever did in
times before. Seems like money is the only thing to have and get. Folks gone scottch crazy
over money, money! Both is changing. The white folks, I'm speaking bout, the white folks has
changed and course the colored folks keeping up wid them. The old white and colored neither
can't keep up wid the fast times. I say it's the folks that made this depression and it's the
folks keeping the depression. The little fellow is squeezed clear out. It out to be stopped.
Folks ain't happy like they used to be. Course they sung songs all the time. Religious choruses
mostly.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Amanda Rosa
                    817 Schiller Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 82

"I was nine years old in the time of the surrender. I know I was here in that time. I don't
know nothin' 'bout their carryin'-on. I know they whipped them with hobble rods. You don't
know what hobble rods is!!! Ain't you seen these here long thin hick'ry shoots? They called
hobble rods. I don't know why they called 'em hobble rods. I know they made you hobble. They'd
put 'em in the fire and roast 'em and twist 'em. I have seen 'em whip them till the blood run
down their backs. I've seen 'em tie the women up, strip 'em naked to their waist and whip 'am
till the blood run down their backs. They had a nigger whipper, too.

"I was born in Salem, Alabama. I came up here about twenty-five years ago.

"Isaac Adair was the name of the old man who owned me. He owned my mother and father too, Hester
and Scip. Their last name was Adair, the same as their master's.

"I don't remember the names of my grandfather and grandmother, 'cause we was crossed up, you
see, One of my grandmothers was named Crecie and the other was named Lydia. I don't remember
my grandfather's name. I spect I used to call 'im master. I used to remember them but I don't
no more. Nobody can't worry me 'bout them old folks now. They ast me all them questions at
the Welfare. They want to know your gran'pa and your gran'ma. Who were they, what did they
do, where did they live, where are they now? I don't know what they did. That's too far back
for me.

"My mother and father had nine children. I have only one sister living. All the others done
gone to heaven but me and her.

"My mother and father lived in a log cabin. They had one-legged beds nailed to the wall. They
had benches and boxes and blocks and all sich as that for chairs. My daddy made the table we
used. He made them one-legged beds too. They kept the food in boxes and gourds. They had these
big gourds. They could cut holes in the top of them and put things in them. My mammy had a
lot of 'em and they were nice and clean too. Wisht I had one of them now.

"Some folks didn't have that good. We had trundle beds for the children that would run under
the big bed when they wasn't sleeping in it. We made a straw mattress. You know the white folks
weren't goin' to let 'em use cotton, and they didn't have no chickens to git feathers from;
so they had to use straw. Oh, they had a hard time I'm tellin' you. My mother pulled greens
out of the garden and field, and cured it up for the mattress.

"For rations, we'd eat onions and vegetables. We et what was raised. You know they didn't have
nothin' then 'cept what they raised. All the cookin' was done at one house, but there was two
cooks, one for the colored folks and one for the white folks. My grandma cooked for the white
people. They cooked in those big old washpots for the colored people. We all thought we had
a pretty good master.

"We didn't know nothin' about a master.

"I ain't positive what time the hands ate breakfast. I know they et it and I know they et at
the same time and place. I think they et after sunrise. They didn't have to eat before sunrise.

"When they fed the children, they cook the food and put it in a great big old tray concern
and called up the children, 'Piggee-e-e-e-e, piggee-e-e-e-e.' My cousin was the one had to
go out and call the children; and you could see them runnin' up from every which way, little
shirt tails flyin' and hair sticking out. Then they would pour the food out in different vessels
till the children could git around them with those muscle-shell spoons. Many of them as could
get 'round a vessel would eat out of it and when they finished that one, they'd go to another
one, and then to another one till they all got fed.

"My master worked seventy hands they said. He had two colored overseers and one white one.
He didn't allow them overseers to whip and slash them niggers. They had to whip them right.
Didn't allow no pateroles to bother them neither. That's a lot of help too. 'Cause them pateroles
would eat you up. It was awful. Niggers used to run away to keep from bein' beat up.

"I knowed one gal that ran away in the winter time and she went up into the hollow of a tree
for protection. When she came in, she was in sich a bad condition they had to cut off both
her legs. They had froze out there. They taken care of her. They wanted her to work. She was
jus' as nice a seamstress as you ever saw. And she could do lots of things. She could get about
some. She could go on her knees. She had some pads for them and was just about as high as your
waist when she was goin' along on her hands and knees, swinging her body between her arms.

Ate in the Big House

"The cooks and my mother stayed in the white folks' yard. They weren't in the quarters. My
mother was seamstress and she was right in the house all the day long sewing. The children
like me and my sister, they used us 'round the house and yard for whatever we could do. They
didn't never whip none of my father's children. If we done something they thought we ought
to been whipped for, they would tell father to whip us, and if he wanted to, he would; and
if he didn't want to, he wouldn't. They made a big difference for some reason.

Marriage

"They married in that time by standing up and letting someone read the ceremony to them. My
master was a Christian. There wasn't no jumpin' over a broomstick on my master's place. The
white folks didn't have no nigger preacher for their churches. But the colored folks had 'em.
They preached out of these little old Blue Back Spellers--leastways they was little blue back
books anyhow.

Freedom

"My folks was on the road refugeeing from Magnolia, Arkansas to Pittsburg, Texas when the news
came that the colored folks was free. And my master came 'round and told the niggers they was
free as he was. I didn't hear him. I don't know where I was. I'm sure I was out playin somewheres.

Slave Wages and Experiences after the War

"My father worked in a blacksmith shop right after the War. Before the War, he went far and
near to work for the white folks. They'd risk him with their money and everything. They would
give him part of it; I don't know how much. He brought money to them, and they sure give him money.

"We didn't have to wear the things the other slave children had to wear. He would order things
for his family and my father would do the same for us. When old master made his order, my father
would put his in with it.

Family

"I am the mother of fifteen children--ten girls and five boys. That was enough for me. I am
willing to quit off. My husband is dead. He's been dead for thirty-five years.

Opinions

"I don't know what to say about these young people. Mine are pretty good. So, I'm 'fraid to
say much about the others.

"Lord, I don't know what we'll do if we don't get some rain.

Vocational Experiences

When I was able I washed and ironed. I didn't have to do nothin' till after my father and husband
died. Then I washed and ironed and cooked till the white folks set me out. They said I was
too old. That is one thing I hates to think of. They had the privilege to say I couldn't work;
they ought to a seen that I got somethin' to live on when I wasn't able to work no more."

Interviewer's Comment

You can't get the whole story by reading the words in this interview. You have to hear the
tones and the accents, and see the facial expressions and bodily movements, and sense the sometimes
almost occult influence; you have to feel the utter lack of resentment that lies behind the
words that sound vehement when read. You marvel at the quick, smooth cover-up when something
is to be withheld, at the unexpected vigor of the mind when the bait is attractive enough to
draw it out, and at the sweetness of the disposition. Some old people merely get mellowed and
sweetened by the hardships through which they have passed. Sometimes, you wonder if some of
the old folk don't have dispositions that they can turn off or on at will.

It is not hard to realize the reason why Amanda was treated better than other children when
you remember that she called her grandpa "Master".

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: "Cat" Ross
                    Brassfield, Ark.
Age: Born 1862

"I was born in Releford County on old Major Ross place. I was born durin' a battle between
the North and South at Murfreesboro. The house was on the battle ground. Mama had five children.
Her name was Susanna Wade. Papa's name was Amos Ross. He belong to Major Bill Ross. Major Ross
had ten houses houses--one at the edge of the thicket, two on Stone river, and they was scattered
around over his land. Major Ross never went to war. Papa went with Major Billy to bury his
gold. It stayed where they put it till after the war they went and dug it up. I seen that.
When they brought it to the house, it was a pot--iron pot--full of gold. I didn't know where
they had it buried nor how they fixed it.

"My folks was all field hands. They muster been blessed cause they didn't get mixed up with
the other nations. Grandfather's mother--Grandma Venus--come from Africa. She'd been in bondage
about a hundred years. I recollect her well. My folks all lived to be old people, over a hundred
years old. They was all pretty well, all Africans.

"I have seen the Ku Klux quarter mile long and two breasted on horses. They scared me so bad
I never had no experiences with them. They run my uncle in. He was a big dancer. One time they
made him dance. He cut the pigeon-wing for them. That was the name of what he danced.

"I never was sold. I was give way. One of the Wades married into the Mitchell family. Mama
belong to the Wades. They give me and Mama and Aunt Sallie--she wasn't my aunt but I called
her that--to Wade's daughter. She was the young mistress. The Wades wasn't so good to their
slaves. When freedom was declared, Papa come and got me and Mama and took us on over to his
place agin. We started sharecroppin' at Major Ross's place. In 1881 Chick McGregor paid my
way. I come to Arkansas. I farmed all my life till 1922 to 1933 I been here in Brassfield sawmilling.
They took the mill away from here. I cain't plough, I'm not able. I pick and hoe cotton. I
work day labor. I never have got on the Welfare."

Southfield FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Pernella Anderson Subject: Centennial Snow--Spring
in St. Louis addition

Name: Mattie Ross Occupation: Gardening Residence: South Field, Oil Field. Age: 74 [TR: Information
moved from bottom of second page.]

Ah wuz born aftuh surrender. Ah guess ah'm about 74 years ole. Mah pa wuz er slave an mah ma
wuz too. Dey moster wuz name Green Traylor an dey lived right down dar at Tula Creek. Mah mistess
wuz named Martha Traylor an dey name me aftuh huh. Mah name is Martha Lee Traylor. Aftuh she
mahried huh name wiz Martha Tatum. We worked down dar. Oh! Mah Lawd! How we did work--all ovah
dat bottom. De puttiest fiel' ah evah did see. De Traylor's owned hit den. Later on de Tatums
bought hit fum dem and years aftuh dat de Nash's bought hit fum de Tatums. But new all uv dat
place is growed up. Nothing but er pine thicket and er black berry thicket. Ye caint hardly
walk through de place. Later on de Cobbs owned us. George Cobb wuz his name. He lived down
in de Caledonia settlement. Ah went behin' him er many er day wid de hoe or he'd crack mah
haid. He use tuh be de sheriff here de years uv de boom an his nephew is de sheriff now--Grady
Wosley. Later en while ah wuz a gull ah werked fuh de Swilleys an wuz partly raised on dey
plantation. De ole man wuz name Lawson Swilley. His wife, Margaret Swilley, and I clare dem
two people treated me white. She mammied me er many er day. Ah wuz bred and born right down
dar er-round Caledonia. Ah wuz a big gull durin de time uv de centennial snow. Dis snow wuz
called dat cause hit wuz de bigges snow dat evah been. Hit wuz ovah yo haid. We had tuh spade
our way evah whah we went. Tuh de wood gitting place, tuh de sping, tuh de hoss lot, and evah
whah. De anow wuz warm an soft. We piled up so much snow till hit took hit er half er year
tuh melt. Dat snow stayed on de groun two months.

Ah am de muthah uv five gulls and fo' boys. Didn nairy one uv mah gulls come in de pen till
dey wuz mahried. Ah use tuh fish in er big ole fish pond rat down whah de wesson depot is now.
Years ergo people come fum Camden an othuh places tuh fish in dat fish pond.

Mr. Sam Austin sole old man Burgy (Burgiss?) er piece uv groun' to bury folks in and he wuz
de first man tuh die an be buried dar. So dey name hit de Burgy Cemetery.

Down dar in Memphis Addition atah the colored Prof. Dykes place dar use tuh be one uv de bes'
springs. Course at dat time hit wuz er big ole fiel' den and de watuch wuz jes lak ice watuh.

Dat make me think. Mah pa sed he went tuh de wah tuh cook fuh his ole moster, Green Traylor.
Well pa said dar wuz er spring whar dey got watuh. Said he went tuh git watuh outen de sping
and had tuh pull dead men outn de spring an dat day drinked of'n dem dead men all while de
wah wuz going on.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Laura Rowland
                    (Bright Mulatto)
Age: 65?
Address: Brinkley, Arkansas

"My parents name was Mary Ann and Sam Billingslea. Mother's father lived with us when I first
remember. His name was Robert Todd. He was a brown skin Negro. They said he was a West Indian.
He talked of olden times but I don't remember well enough to tell you. Father owned a home
that we was living on when I first remember. Mother was bright color, too. Vaden, Mississippi
was our trading post. Mother had twenty children. She was a worker. She would work anywhere
she was put. My folks never talked much about slavery. I don't know how they got our place.

"I know they was bothered by the Ku Klux. One night they heard or saw the Ku Klux coming. The
log house set low on the ground but was dug out to keep potatoes and things in--a cellar like.
The planks was wide, bout a foot wide, rough pine, not nailed down. They lifted the planks
up and all lay down and put the planks back up. The house look like outside nothing could go
under it, it was setting on the hard ground. When they got there and opened the doors they
saw nobody at home and rode off.

"Another time, one black night, a man--he must have been a soldier--strided a block step with
his horse and ordered supper. She told him she didn't have nothing cooked and very little to
cook. He cursed and ordered the supper. Told her to get it. She pretended to be fixing it and
slipped out the back door down the furrows and squatted in the briers in a fence corner. Long
time after she had been out there hid, he come along, jumped the fence on his horse, jumped
over her back, down into the lane and to the road he went. If the horse hadn't jumped over
her and had struck her he would have killed her. Now I think he was a soldier, not the Ku Klux.
I heard my father say he was a yard boy.

"I married in Mississippi and came to Malvern and Hot Springs. He was a mill hand. I raised
three children of my own and was a chamber maid. I kept house and cooked for Mrs. Bera McCafity,
a rich woman in Hot Springs. My husband died and was buried at Malvern. I married again, in
Hot Springs, and lived there several years. We went to the steel mill at Gary, Indiana. He
died. I come back here and to Brinkley in 1920. One daughter lives in Detroit and one in Chicago.
The youngest one is married, has a family and a hard time; the other makes her living. It takes
it all to do her. I get $8.00 on the P.W.A.

"They all accuse me around here of talking mighty proper. I been around fine city folks so
much I notice how they speak.

"I don't fool with voting. I don't care to vote unless it would be some town question to settle.
I would know something about it and the people.

"I don't know my age. I was grown when I married nearly sixty years ago. We have to show our
license to get on the W.P.A. or our age in the Bible you understand."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Landy Rucker
                    2315 W. Fourth Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 83

"I was born in 1854 in the State of Georgia, Elbert County.

"I member some about the war. I went to the field when I was twelve. Pulled fodder, picked
peas and tended to the cow pen. I had to go then. We had a good master. Our mistress wasn't
good though. She wouldn't give us enough to eat. Old master used to ask if we had enough to
eat and he'd pull out great big hams and cut em all to pieces and give em to us. Old mistress
would cry and say, 'You're givin' away all my good dinner.' But she repented since the war.
She said she didn't do right.

"We got here to Pine Bluff in '61.

"Oh yes, I remember comin' here on the train and on the boat.

"Old mistress whipped us when she thought we needed it. I been pretty good all my life.

"My father was a blacksmith and one day when I was six or seven I was takin' his dinner when
some dogs smelled the dinner and smelled me too and they got after me. I had to climb a tree
and they stayed around till they heard some other dogs barkin' and ran off. I come down then
and took my bucket and left. Nother time some hogs chased me. They rooted all around the tree
till they heard somethin' crackle in the woods and run off and then I'd come down.

"After the war I went to school three days and the teacher whipped me. I went home and I didn't
go back. I went home and went to the field. I had a mother and a sister and I tried to make
a living for them.

"I went to school a little while after that and then went to the field. Most I know I learned
by myself.

"Yes'm, I seen the Yankees bout a year fore the war ceasted. They come to get somethin' to
eat and anything else they could get. Got the mules and things and took my two brothers and
put em in the war. One come back after surrender and the other one died in the war. They said
they was fightin' to free the niggers from being under bondage.

"I seen the Ku Klux. Looked like their horses could fly. Made em jump a big high fence. They
come and took my father and all the other men on the place and was goin' to put em in the Confederate
army. But papa was old and he cried and old mistress thought a lot of him so they let him stay.
I just lay down and hollered cause they was takin' my brothers, but they didn't keep em long.
One of my brothers, six years older than me, come up here to Pine Bluff to jine the Yankees.

"We could hear the guns at Marks Mill.

"I been married twice. There was about eleven years betwixt the two marriages.

"I worked on the farm till about '85. Then I worked in the planing mill. I got hit by a car
and it broke my hip so I have to walk on crutches now. Then I got me a little shoe shop and
I got along fine till I got so I couldn't set down long enough to fix a pair of shoes. I bought
this house and I gets help from the Relief so I'm gettin' along all right now."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Martha Ruffin
                    1310 Cross Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 80

"I was born in North Carolina, and I was seven years old when the Surrender was. Every one
of my children can tell you when they was born, but I can't. My mother, Quinettie Farmer was
her name. Brother Robert Farmer is my cousin. He is about the same age as my husband. He got
married one week and me and my husband the next. My father's name was Valentine Farmer. My
grandmother on my mother's side was Mandy Harrison, and my grandfather's name on my mother's
side was Jordan Harrison. My grandpa on my father's side was named Reuben Farmer, and his wife
was Nancy Farmer. I have seed my grandpa and grandma on my father's side. But my mother didn't
see them on my mother's side.

"I 'members my daddy's white folks' names, Moses Farmer. My father never was sold. My daddy,
Valentine Farmer, was a ditcher, shoemaker, and sometimes a tanner. My mother was a house girl.
She washed and ironed. I couldn't tell exactly what my grandparents did. My grandparents, so
my parents told me, were mostly farmers. I reckon Moses Farmer owned about three hundred slaves.

"I was born on Robert Bynum's place. He was my mother's owner. He married one of the Harrison
girls and my mother fell to that girl. My mother done just about as she pleased. She didn't
know nothin' about workin' in the field till after the Surrender.

"The way my mother and father happened to meet--my old master hired my daddy to do some work
for him and he met my mama that way.

"The way my folks learned they was free was, a white school-teacher who was teaching school
where we stayed told my mother she was free, but not to say nothing about it. About three weeks
later, the Yankees come through there and told them they was free and told my old boss that
if he wanted them to work he would have to hire them and pay them. The school-teacher stayed
with mother's folks--mother's white folks. The school-teacher was teaching white folks, not
niggers. She was a Yankee, too. My mother was the house girl, and the school-teacher stayed
with her folks. The War was so hot she couldn't git no chance to go back home.

"My daddy farmed after the War. He farmed on shares the first year. The next year, he bought
him a horse. He finally owned his own farm. He owned it when he died. He had about one hundred
acres of land.

"I have pretty fair health for an old woman like I am. I am bothered with the rheumatism. The
Lawd wouldn't let both of us git down at the same time. (Here she refers to her husband who
was sick in bed at the time she made the statement. You have his story already. It was difficult
for her to tell her story, for he wanted it to be like his--ed.)

"I belong to the Primitive Baptist Church. I haven't changed my membership from my home.

"I got married in 1882, in February. How many years is that? I got so I can't count up nothin'.
Fifty-six years. Yes, that's it; that's how long I been married. I had a little sister that
got married with me. She didn't really git married; she just stood up with me. She was just
a little baby girl. They told me I was pretty near twenty-three years old when I married. I
have a daughter that's been married twenty-five years. We had older daughters, but that one
was the first one married. I have got a daughter over in North Little Rock that is about fifty
years old. Her husband is dead. We had ten children. My daughter is the mother of ten children
too. She got married younger than I did. This girl I am living with is my baby. I have four
children living--three girls and one boy. A woman asked me how many children I had and I told
her three. She was a fortuneteller and she wanted to tell me my fortune. But I didn't want
her to tell me nothin'. God was gittin' ready to tell me somethin' I didn't want to hear. I've
got five great-grandchildren. We don't have no great-great-grandchildren. Don't want none."

Interviewer's Comment

The old lady's style was kind of cramped by the presence of her husband. Every once in a while,
when she would be about to paint something in lurid colors, he would drop in a word and she
would roll her phrases around in her mouth, so to speak, and shift and go ahead in a different
direction and on another gear.

Very pleasant couple though--with none of the bitterness that old age brings sometimes. The
daughter's name is Searles.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person Interviewed: Thomas Ruffin
                    1310 Cross Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 82 or 84

"I was born in North Carolina, Franklin County, near Raleigh. My father's name really I don't
know. Folks said my master was my daddy. That's what they told me. Of course, I don't know
myself. But then white folks did anything they wanted to in slavery times.

"My mother's name was Morina Ruffin. I don't know the names of my grandparents. That is too
far back in slavery for me. Of course, old man Ruffin my father's father, which would have
been my grandfather, he died way back yonder in slave times before the war. My father gotten
kilt in the war. His name was Tom Ruffin. I was named after him. He died trying to hold us.
That man owned three hundred slaves. He never married. Carried my mother round everywhere he
went. Out of all his niggers, he didn't have but one with him. That was in slavery time and
he was a fool about her.

"I couldn't tell you exactly when I was born. Up until the surrender I couldn't tell how old
I was. I am somewheres around eighty-two years old. The old lady is just about the same. We
guesses it in part. We figure it on what we heard the old folks say and things like that. I
remember plenty of things about slavery that I saw.

"I never did much when I was a boy. The biggest thing I remember is a mule got to kicking and
jumped around in a stall. She lost her footing and fell down and broke her neck right there
in the stall. I remember her name as well as if it was yesterday. Her name was Bird. That was
just before the war. I know I must have been at least four years old then. You can figure that
up and see what it comes to.

"I never did any work when I was a child. I jus went to the spring with the young Mistress
and danced for them sometimes. But they never did give me any work to do,--like they did the
others. I lived right in the biggest house the biggest portion of my time.

"That day and time, they made compost heaps. Mixed dirt with manure. They hoed cotton and crops.
They didn't know what school was. They helped with washing and ironing. Did every kind of work
they had strength enough to do till they got big enough to go to the field. That was what the
children did.

"When they were about seven years old, to the best of my recollection they would go to the
field. Seven or eight. They would pick up corn stalks and brush. And from that on when they
were about eight or nine, they would pick cotton.

"My mother never did have to do anything round the farm. She lived about seventy-five miles
from it, there where the master had his office. He was a lawyer. After I was born, she didn't
come out to see me but once a year that I recollect. When she did come, she would bring me
some candy or cakes or something like that.

"I didn't see the soldiers during the time of the war. But I saw plenty of them afterwards--riding
round and telling the niggers they were free. They had some of the finest saddles I ever seed.
You could hear them creaking a block off. No, I didn't see them while they was fighting. We
were close enough to hear the guns crash, and we could see the light from them, but I didn't
actually see the fightin. The Yankees come through on every plantation where they were working
and entered into every house and told us we was free. The Yankees did it. They told you you
were free as they were, that you didn't have to stay where you was, that you didn't have no
more master, that you could go and come as you pleased.

"I got along hard after I was freed. It is a hard matter to tell you what we could find or
get. We used to dig up dirt in the smokehouse and boil it and dry it and sift it to get the
salt to season our food with. We used to go out and get old bones that had been throwed away
and crack them open and get the marrow and use them to season the greens with. Jus plenty of
niggers then didn't have anything but that to eat.

"Even in slavery times, there was plenty of niggers out of them three hundred slaves who had
to break up old lard gourds and use them for meat. They had to pick up bones off the dung hill
and crack them open to cook with. And then, of course, they'd steal. Had to steal. That the
bes way to git what they wanted.

"They had a great big kitchen for the slaves. They had what you call pot racks they could push
them big pots in and out on. They cooked hog slop there. They had trays and bowls to eat out
of that were made out of gum wood. It was a long house used as a kitchen for the hands to go
in and eat. They et dinner there and for supper they would be there. But breakfast, they would
have to eat in the field. The young niggers would bring it out to them. They would bring it
about an hour after the sun rose and the slave hands would eat it right out in the field; that
was the breakfast. You see the hands went to the field before sunup, and they didn't get to
eat breakfast in the kitchen and it had to be et in the field. Little undergrowth of children--they
had plenty of them on the place--had to carry their meals to them.

"They would usually give them collars [HW: collards] in green times, potatoes in potato time.
Bread,--they didn't know what that was. White folks hardly knew theirselves. They didn't have
butter and they didn't have no sugar. Didn't know much about what meat was yet. They would
give the little bits of children pot liquor. That's the most I ever seed them git. Of course
I was treated differently. You couldn't judge them by me. I was the only half-white youngun
round there, and they said I was half-brother to ol Marse's chillun. And the white chillen
would git me up to the house to dance for them and all like, and they would give me biscuits
or anything good they had. I never seed the others eatin nothin but pot liquor.

"Most of the slaves lived in log cabins. You know they never had but one door. In general where
they had large families, they would have two rooms with a chimney in the middle of the house.
The chimney was built out of mud and straw. I can remember them sawin the timber. Two pulled
a big ol crosscut saw. Didn't have no saw mills then. This world has come from a long ways.
They used to didn't have no plows. It was without form. You made it at home.

"They had ol homemade bedsteads to sleep in. They had a little rope that ran back and forth
instead of slats. That was called a corded bed. Cheers were all made at home and were split
bottoms.

"They didn't many of the slaves have food in their homes. But when they did, they would jus
have a little wooden box and they would put their food in it.

"It seems like the white people got to burying their money during the time of the war. That
never come out till after the war. Then they got to wantin that money and started looking for
it. There never was any talk of buried treasure before the war.

"My folks didn't give me any schoolin before the surrender. I never got any before the surrender
and a mighty little afterwards. No nigger knowed anything. I started to farming when I was
thirteen years old. I used to be a fertilizer, and then a cotton sower. That was the biggest
I knowed about farming when I was a boy. My mother lived about fifteen years after slavery.
I reckon.

"In the time of slavery, you couldn't marry a woman. You just took up with her. Mother married
the same man she had been going with after freedom. She had four children after the surrender
as fer as I can tell--three girls and two boys.

"I moved from North Carolina to Louisiana. Stayed there one year and then moved here. Bought
forty acres of land. Bought it after I'd been here a year. It took me four years to pay for
that. Then next time I bought eighty acres and paid for them. Paid them out in two years. Then
I bought eighty acres more and paid for them in two years. Couldn't pay for them cash at first,
but could have paid for the last eighty when I bought them if I had a wanted to. Then I bought
eighty more and then I bought eighty again and then forty and on till I had five hundred and
three acres of farm land. I got the three over when I got the sorghum mill.

"I left my farm and come to the city for doctor's treatment. My old lady and I worked out five
hundred and three acres of land. I got five children living. I gave each one of them forty
acres of land. Most of the rest I sold. I got a fellow here that owes me for one of the places
now. He lives over on Third and Dennison. His name is Wright. My old lady an me held on to
that and didn't lose it even in all these hard years.

"My daughter kept after me to come here and she built this little house out here where I could
holler or do anything I wanted to do and not disturb nobody. I couldn't feel at home up in
a big house with other people. Four or five months ago it would take two people to put me to
bed. I would get off from home and have to carry me back. But I am gettin along fine now. This
high blood pressure keeps me from remembering so well. Ol lady where's my pipe? You didn't
find it up to daughter's? Ain't it in the kitchen? Can't you find it nowheres? What didju do
with it? Well, you needn't look for it no longer. It's here in my pocket. That's my high blood
pressure workin. That whut it does to you.

"I belong to the Primitive Baptist Church and have been belonging to it altogether about sixty-three
years. I used to be a Missionary. I been a member of the church a long time.

"I think times are jus fulfilling the Bible. The people are wiser now than we ever known them
to be and wickeder. I don't believe the times you see now will be always. People are getting
so wise and so wicked that I think the end is near at hand. You notice the Germans now are
trying to make slaves out of the Jews. There's the Japans that is jus slaughtering up the Chinese
like they was nothin but dumb brutes. The world is wickeder than it ever has been before.

"The young people today! I'd hate to tell you what I do think of them. The business is going
to fall."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Casper Rumple, De Valls Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I will be, providin' the good Lord spare me, 79 years old the first day of January. I was
born in Lawrence County, South Carolina. The Big road was the dividing line between that and
Edgefield County. My mother belonged to John Griffin. His wife named Rebecca. My father was
a Irishman. Course he was a white man--Irishman. Show I did know him. He didn't own no slaves.
I don't guess he have any land. He was a overseer in Edgefield County. His name was Ephraim
Rumple. What become of him? He went off to fight the Yankees and took Malaria fever and died
on Red River. I could show you bout where he died.

"My mother had a big family. I can't tell you much bout them. I was the youngest. She cooked
up at John Griffins. He was a old man and the land was all his wife's. She was old too. She
had some grown girls. He had no children. They called him Pa and I did too. I stayed round
with him nearly all the time helping him.

"He had a room and she had a room. I slept on a bed--little bed--home-made bed--in the room
wid him and she slept in the room with her two girls and my mother slept in the kitchen a whole
heap so she be there to get breakfast early. They riz early every mornin'. John Griffins wife
owned four plantations more than 160 acres in each one, but I couldn't say how much.

"My mother was a field hand in busy times too. Miss Rebecca had all the slaves clothes made.
She seed to that. She go to the city, Augusta, and bring back bolts cloth. One slave sewed
for Miss Rebecca and her family. She didn't do all the sewing but she sewed all the time. One
woman done all the weavin'. At night after they work in the field Miss Rebecca give em tasks--so
many bats to card or so much spinnin' to do.

"Master John didn't want em to work at night but she made em work all the same. They b'long
to her. Another thing the women had to do was work in the garden. It was a three acre garden.
They always had plenty in thar. Had it palinged so the young chickens couldn't squeeze through
the cracks.

"They had plenty stock and made all the fertilizer needed in the garden and patches. They had
goober patch, popcorn patch, sorghum patches, several of em, pea patches but they was field
cabbage patch and watermellon patch. They had chicken house, goose house, duck house and way
off a turkey pen. It had a cover on it. They had to be cleaned and all that manure moved to
the garden and patches. Old man John Griffin was a good man. Things went on pretty quiet bout
the place. They had to do their own cooking. They got for the grown ups 3 pounds meat, 1 pk.[TR:?]
meal a week. They fed the young chaps plenty so they wouldn't get stunted. They keep em chunky
till they get old nough to grow up tall and that make big women and big men. They stunt em
then when they start runnin' up, it cause em to be low. The owners was mighty careful (not)[HW:
?] to feed the chaps nough to eat so they make strong hands.

"Men come long the road peddlin' from out the cities, men come long with droves of horses and
mules. They was called horse traders. Then once in a while they come long tradin' and selling
slaves. Nother way they sell em was at public auction. Iffen a slave steal from another master,
like go in his smoke house or crib and steal, the sheriff have to whip him. They would have
public whippin'.

"How'd they know was freedom? How'd they not know it was freedom? Everybody went wild. They
was jes' crazy cause they was free. Way I knowd for certain it was freedom Mr. John Griffin
had all the slaves that hadn't done went off come to the house and he told them they was all
free. Some of em just started walking the roads till they nearly starved. The government didn't
start feeding the slaves till so many nearly starved. My mother cooked on nearly a year. Then
she went to work for Vaughn in Edgefield County.

"They didn't give them no land. The white folks was land pore.

"They didn't have no money. When the masters had money they give the slaves a little spending
money. Nearly all the slaves had a little money long. They get a pass to split rails for a
neighbor and make money. That was befo freedom. After freedom nobody had money but the Yankee
soldiers. They keep it closer than the folks you been livin' with.

"Mr. Griffin, he was called General by all the young men. He was too old to fight so he trained
soldiers. He didn't wear a uniform but they did. They met certain days every week. They wore
gray uniforms.

"They had a battle at Lawrence. It was 17 miles. The soldiers passed long the Big road. I didn't
see the battles. I heard plenty talk about that conflict at Lawrence though.

"I heard the slaves was goin' to get 40 acres and a mule. I tell you they didn't wait to see
if they was going to get another meal. They went wild, walking and hooping up and down the
road. They found out when they nearly starved they had got the bad end of the game somehow.
Then to keep em from starvin' they had certain days to go to Lawrence and get a little rations.
Not much I tell you. They started stealin' and the Ku Klux started up bout that.

"The President got killed (Abraham Lincoln). Then they knowed the gig was up. They had to go
to work hard as ever and mighty little to eat. The slaves did vote. It was the color of the
paper they used way they knowed how to vote. The Republican government had full sway 12 years.
All the offices at Edgefield nearly was Negroes cept the sheriff. The Yankees tell em what
to do way they knowed how. Butler went to Congress. He was a Negro--(???). That was what the
Ku Klux was mad bout. They run the Yankees out and took holt of the offices soon as they could.

"Our master had no Ku Klux comin' on our place. He protected us, It wasn't no different than
slavery till I was nearly grown and a drove was walking going west to better place. I got in
with them and come on. The Ku Klux had killed several Negroes. That scared them all up. I remember
Tuscaloosa, Alabama when we cone through there. We was walking--a line a mile long--marching
and singing. They was building back in a hurry seemed like to me. The town had been burned
up. Some dropped out to get work along. Some fell out sick. Some so weak they died long the
road. Had to keep up. Some stopped; they never caught up no more. Mostly old folks or half
starved folks couldn't keep going. The Ku Klux whoop and shoot you down for any little thing.
They started at night, fraid of the Yankees but they whooped and run them out and the Negroes
left. The Ku Klux got so bold they didn't dress up nor go at night neither. At first they was
careful then they got bold. The Yankee soldiers bout all they was afraid of. The Negroes found
out who some of the Ku Klux was and told the Yankees but it didn't do much good. After bout
twelve years all the Yankees gone back home. The white folks down in Carolina thought bout
as little of them as Negroes. They wouldn't let them have no land if they did have money to
pay any price for it. They didn't want them living amongst them. They say they rether have
a Negro family.

"The biggest Negro uprisin' I ever seed was at freedom. They riz up in a hurry.

"I had to stop and work all along. I got to Arkansas in 1881. I never went no further. I been
all my life farmin'. I cut and sell wood, clear land. The best living was when I farmed and
sold wood. I bought a 10 acre farm and cleared it up graduly, then I sold it fer $180.00 cause
I got blind and couldn't see to farm it. I had a house on it. I own this here house (a splendid
home). My daughter and her husband come to take care me. They come from Cincinatti here. She
made $15.00 a week up there three years. I get $8.00 a month now from the Social Welfare. If
I could see I could make money.

"I never seen times like this. Sin is causin' it. Unrest and selfishness. No neighborly spirit.
I don't bother no young folks. I don't know how they will come out. If they caint get a big
price they won't work and the white folks are doing their own work, and don't help like they
did. I could get along if I could see. I had a light stroke keeps me from talkin' good, I hear
that."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy Person interviewed: Henry Russell, Russellville, Arkansas Age: 72

"My father's name was Ed Russell, and he was owned by Dr. Tom Russell, de first pioneer settler
of Russellville--de' man de town got its name from.

"My name is Henry, and some folks call me 'Bud.' I was born at Old Dwight de 28th of October,
1866. Yes suh, dat date is correct.

"I was too young to remember much about happenings soon after de War, but I kin ricollect my
father belongin' to de militia for awhile during de Reconstruction days. Both Negroes and whites
were members of de militia.

"My folks come here from Alabama, but I don't know much about them except dat my grandmother,
Charlotte Edwards, give me an old wash pot dat has been in de family over one hundred years.
Yes suh, it's out here in de ya'd now. Also, I owns an old ax handle dat I keep down at de
store jist for a relic of old days. It's about a hundred years old, too.

"My wife was Sallie Johnson of Little Rock, and she was a sister of Mrs. Charley Mays, de barber
you used to know, who was here sich a long time.

"For a long time I worked at different kinds of odd jobs, sometimes in de coal mines and sometimes
on de farms, but for several years I've run a little store for de colored folks here in Russellville.
Ain't able to do very much now.

"I remember very well de first train dat was ever run into Russellville. Must have been 68
or 69 years ago. A big crowd of people was here from all over de country. Of course dere was
only a few families living in de town, and only one or two families of colored folks. People
come in from everywhere, and it was a great sign. Little old train was no bigger dan de Dardanelle
& Russellville train. (You remember de little old train dey used to call de 'Dinkey' don't
you?) Well, it wasn't no bigger dan de Dinkey, and it didn't run into de depot at all, stopped
down where de dump is now. Sure was a sight. Lot of de folks was afraid and wouldn't go near
it, started to run when two men got off. I saw only two man working in front of it, but I remember
it very plain. Dey was working with wheelbarrows and shovels to clear up de track ahead.

"Another thing I remember as a boy was de 'sassination of President Gyarfield. I can't read
or write but very little, but I remember about dat. It was a dull, foggy mornin', and I was
crossin' de bayou with Big Bob Smith. (You remember 'Big Bob' dat used to have the merry-go-'round
and made all de county fairs.) Well, he told me all about de killing of de President. It was
about 1881 wasn't it?

"I think times was better in de old days because people was better. Had a heap more honor in
de old days dan dey have now. Not many young folks today have much character.

"All right. Come back again. Whenever I kin help you out any way, I'll be glad to."

NOTE: Henry Russell is quite proud of the fact that his ancestors were the first families of
Russellville. He is a polite mulatto, uneducated, and just enough brogue to lend the Southern
flavor to his speech, but is a fluent conversationalist.

Interviewer: Miss Sallie C. Miller Person interviewed: Katie Rye, Clarksville, Arkansas Age: 82

"We lived in Greenbrier, Faulkner County, Arkansas. All stayed at home and got along very well.
We had enough to eat and wear. Mistress was awful mean to us but we stayed with them until
after the war. After the war master moved us off to another place he had and my father farmed
for his self, master and his pa and ma, and mistress' pa and ma. They awful good to us, but
mistress was so high tempered she would get mad and whip some of the slaves but she never whipped
any of us. She worried so over the loss of her slaves after the war she went crazy. We had
two white grand pas and grand mas. We colored children called them grandpa and ma and uncle
and aunt like the white children did and we didn't know the difference. The slaves was only
allowed biscuit on Christmas and sometimes on Sundays but we had beef and plenty of honey and
everything after we moved from the big house. Mistress used to come down to see us an' my mother
would cook dinner for her and master. He was such a good man and the best doctor in the State.
He would come in and take the babies up (mother had nine children) and get them to sleep for
my mother. His mother would come to the kitchen and ask for a good cup of coffee and mother
would make it for her. The master and his family were Northern people and my mother was given
to the mistress by her father and mother when she married.

"After my father bought his own farm about ten miles from the big house, father would put us
all in an ox wagon and take us back to see our white folks.

"The mistress claimed to be a Christian and church member but I don't see how she could have
been she was so mean.

"I think the present day generation mighty wicked. Seems like they get worse instead of better,
even the members of the church are not as good as they used to be. They don't raise the children
like they used to. They used to go to Sunday School and church and take the children, now the
children do as they please, roam the streets. It is sad to see how the parents are raising
the children, just feed them and let them go. The children rule the parents now.

"We sang the old hymns and 'Dixie', 'Carry Me Back to Old Virginia', 'When You and I Were Young,
Maggie'."

Circumstances of Interview STATE--Arkansas NAME OF WORKER--Miss Hazel Horn ADDRESS--Little
Rock, Arkansas DATE--Last of April, 1936 SUBJECT--Ex-slave [TR: Repetitive information deleted
from subsequent pages.]

1. Name and address of informant--Uncle Bob Samuels, Washington, Arkansas

2. Date and time of interview--Last of April, 1936

3. Place of interview--Washington, Arkansas

4. Name and address of person, if any, who put you in touch with informant--J.C.W. Smith.

5. Name and address of person, if any, accompanying you--J.C.W. Smith

6. Description of room, house, surroundings, etc.

Personal History of Informant

1. Ancestry--Grandmother, Spanish; Grandfather, Negro; father, Negro.

2. Place and date of birth--Born about 1846

3. Family--

4. Places lived in, with dates--

5. Education, with dates--

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--

7. Special skills and interests--

8. Community and religious activities--

9. Description of informant--Tall and straight. He is blind. Clean in appearance, dressed in
slightly faded overalls. He has short, clean, grey beard. Speaks with a clear accent.

10. Other points gained in interview--Ancestors were in De Soto expeditions.

Text of Interview (Unedited)

"From my mother's mother I learned that on my mother's side my ancestor came with De Soto from
Spain where she was educated at Madrid. From Spain she came to Havana, Cuba, and from there
to Tampa, Florida. From Florida she came to some point in Alabama. From this place she came
to the Mississippi river and the East Bank and crossed where it is called Gaines Landing. After
they crossed the river they went ten kilometers from there, traveled north from there to where
Arkansas County is close to the mouth of the Arkansas River. Here they camped awhile. When
they broke camp there they traveled northeast to Boiling Springs. Making their way from here
they crossed the Ouachita River on the other side of Arkadelphia. They traveled on, crossing
Little Missouri River below Wallaceburg. Here they found some Indian mounds. Then they traveled
on a trail from there to Washington, turned into Washington and took a trail toward Columbus
and turned off to the right (Uncle Bob not sure of the name of this trail) and crossed what
is known as Beard's Lake. They crossed Little River at Ward's Ferry and crossed the Saline
river. Traveling northwest they reached White Oak shoals where Index is now and crossed over
into what was Mexico and traveled to a place called Kawaki located where [TR: ?] now is.

"After camping here for a while they came back into Arkansas to some point near Rando, crossed
Red River at Dooley's Ferry, went to Coola Fabra(?) and back to Boiling Springs. [Here a gold
mine was found and a quarrel ensued, and in a fight De Soto was killed.] They carried his body
overland and buried him in the Mississippi River between Grensville[HW:sp.] and Vicksburg.
[TR: Moved from end of interview: De Soto was buried at the junction of the Mississippi and
[??] Rivers, about 100 miles south of Vicksburg.] The remaining forces of the expedition returned
to Spain.

"Sometime in 1816 my mother's mother was born. My mother's mother was Spanish. My mother says
she was well educated. Mother and her mother have Spanish mixed with Negro blood. I had a sister
named Mary and a brother named John.

"Armarilla, my grandmother came here from Cuba through to Gaines Landing. Her son Edmin and
her husband were with her. They crossed the Mississippi River and she said they stopped at
the old De Soto camp. A short distance west of this place they met two men--Nick Trammel and
John Morrow who profitted (dealt) in Negro slaves. My grandfather and mother employed these
men to guide them to Coola Fabre(?) Camden?. From Little River to Dooley's Ferry these men
carried them to Waco, Texas. They killed my grandfather and kept my grandmother forcing her
to marry either a half-breed Mexican, an Indian or a Negro. It was near Waco in Hickman[HW:sp.]
Prairie that mother was born. The boy Edmin was returned to Dooley's Ferry and remained in
the vicinity until he was about seventeen years of age. He then lived in the vicinity of Little
Rock about six months before returning to Mexico. My grandmother said that Mr. Trammel and
Mr. Morrow probably thought he might cause trouble and killed him as she never saw him after
he returned from Little Rock. Mother was held in Lafayette County at a point where the river
crossed and joined Bowie County (Texas) and where Louisiana bounded the south.

"De Soto traveled by land, not by boat. He had a force of about 550 persons. The women dressed
as men. My grandmother was with her husband.

"My mother was a slave. She was held in Bowie County, Hickens[HW:sp.] Prairie, by Bob Trammel.
They kept her locked up and I have heard mother say that she used whale bone, card bats and
a spinning wheel. Finally they got so hot behind the Trammels in 1847-48, they pulled up stakes
and went down on the Guadalupe River and carried my mother's mother down there. Before they
left Dave Block went on Trammel's bond and got my mother. He made my mother head housekeeper
slave. She had been taught Spanish. She was tall and fair with straight black hair. She was
married to Dick Samuels, my father.

"After the war my father was elected [HW: Hempstead] County Clerk in 1872 on the Republican
ticket. He could neither read nor write, so was clerk in name only securing one of the white
men to attend to the office. By trade he was a blacksmith."

Interviewer's Comment

Uncle Bob Samuels is the son of Richard Samuels and Mary. He was a slave of David Block. After
freedom he came to Little Rock with a sister and a brother, John. Uncle Bob said he often heard
his mother speak of a gold mine. She had a trunk of maps and charts which her mother had given
to her. In this was supposed to be the papers regarding De Soto's legendary gold mine. The
trunk had been lost as Uncle Bob has no idea where the gold mine is. He tells the story the
same way, never varying a point. He does not claim to remember Indian trails or names. He talks
with a clear accent, no Negro accent. During Reconstruction days he served as County Clerk
of Hempstead County under Carpetbaggar rule. During those days he was a political power to
be reckoned with. He was a national as well as a state figure in the "Lily White Republican"
organization. [His wife was a Negro, good looking, but showed little trace of much white blood.]

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: Emma Sanderson Home: 617 Wade Street, Hot
Springs. Aged: 75

"Emma Sanderson"--"Wade Street". That was all the prospective interviewer could learn. "Emma
Sanderson--ex-slave!" "Wade Street"--"Why it's way off that way. You go sort of thatta way,
and then thatta way."

A city map disclosed no Wade Street. Maps belonging to a local abstractor helped not a whit.
"Insurance maps are in more detail." someone advised, "Wade Street," mused the young woman
at the desk, "I've heard of it. We have written a policy for someone there." The head of the
department was new to the city, but he was eager to help. After about five minutes search--from
wall maps to bound volumes of blocks and back again it appeared that "Wade Street" more frequently
known as "Washington Street" meanders wanderingly from Silver Street, in the colored section
out to the "Gorge addition" inhabited by low economic level whites.

Down Malvern Avenue (Hot springs' Beale Street) went the interviewer. On she went past the
offices of a large Chicago packing house. For better then a block she trudged by dilapidated
shops which a few seasons back had housed one of the key transient centers of the U.S.A. Down
the street she walked, pausing for a moment to note that coffee colored faces decorated the
placards in the beauty shop window--two well groomed mulatto girls sitting inside, evidently
operators. Her course took her past sandwich joints and pool halls. Nails, she noted as she
drifted along, had been driven into the projection beneath the plate glass window of the brick
bank (closed during the depression--a building and bank built, owned and operated by negro
capital) to keep loungers away. The colored theater (negroes are admitted only to the balconies
of theaters in Hot Springs--one section of the balcony at the legitimate theater) she noticed
was now serving as a religious gathering place. The well built and excellently maintained Pythian
Bath house (where the hot waters are made available to colored folk) with the Alice Eve Hospital
(45 beds, 5 nurses, 2 resident physicians--negro doctors thruout the town cooperating--surgical
work a specialty) stood out in quiet dignity. For the rest, buildings were an indiscriminate
hodge-podge of homes, apartment houses, shacks, and chain groceries. At the corner where "the
street turns white" the interviewer turned east.

The Langston High School (for colored--with a reputation for turning out good cooks, football
players and academicians) stands on Silver Street. A few paces from the building the interviewer
met a couple of plump colored women laughing and talking loudly.

"I beg your pardon," was her greeting, "can you tell me where Wade Street is?" They could and
did. They were so frankly interested in knowing why the white women wanted Emma Sanderson that
she told them her mission. They were not taken aback--there was no servility--no resentment
they were frankly charmed with the idea. Their directions for finding Mrs. Sanderson became
even more explicit.

When the proper turn off was found the question of Wade versus Washington Street was settled.
A topsy-turvy sign at the intersection announced that Wade Street was ahead. Emma Sanderson's
grandson lived a couple of blocks down the road.

Only the fact that she could hear someone inside moving about kept the interviewer hammering
on the door. Finally she was rewarded by a voice. "Is that somebody a' knockin'?" In a moment
the door opened. The question, "Were you a slave" no matter how delicately put is a difficult
one to ask, but Mrs. Sanderson was helpful, if doubtful that her story would do much good.
"I was just so little when it all happened." But the interviewer was invited in and placed
in a chair near the fire.

"No ma'am. He ain't my grandson--I's the third grandmother. No son, you ain't three--you's
five. Don't you remember what I told you? Yes, he stays with me, ma'am. I take care of him
while the rest of 'em works.

"It's hard for me to remember. I was just so little. Yes, ma'am, I was born a slave--but I
was so little. Seems to me like I remember a big, big house. We was sort of out in the country---out
from Memphis. I know there was my father and my mother and my uncles and my aunts. I know there
was that many. How many more of us old man Doc Walker had--I just don't know. They must have
took good care of us tho. My mother was a house nigrah.

"When the war was ready to quit they gave us our pick. We could stay on and work for wages
or we could go. The folks decided that the'd go on in to Memphis. My Mother and Father didn't
live together none after we went to town. First I lived with Mother and then when she died
my Father took me. My mother died when I was 9. She worked at cooking and washing. When I was
big enough I went to school. I kept on going to school after my Father took me. He died when
I was about 15. By that time I was old enough to look out after myself.

"What did I do? I stayed in folkses houses. I cooked and I washed. Then when I was about 16,
I married. After that I had a man to take care of me. He was a carpenter.

"We been here in Hot Springs a long time--you maybe heared of Sanderson--he took up platering
and he was good too. How long I been in Hot Springs--law I don't know--'cept I was a full grown
women when we come.

"I's had four children--all of 'em is dead. I lives with my grandson. The little fellow, he'll
be old enough to go to school in a year or two. A dime for him ma'am--an' 2 cents besides?
Now son you keep the dime and you can spend the pennies. I always tries to teach him to save.
Then when he gets big he'll know what to do."

Dining room and living room joined one another by means of a high and wide arch. The stove
was sensibly set up in this passage. Both rooms were comfortably furnished with products which
had in all probability been bought new. The child stood close by thruout the entire conversation.
There was no whit of timidity about him, nor was he the least impertinent. He was frankly interested
and wanted to know what was being said. He received the dime and the pennies with a pleasant
grin and a (grandmother prompted) "Thank you". But the gift didn't startle him. Dimes must
have been a fairly usual part of his life. But a few minutes before the interviewer left she
dropped her pencil. It was new and long and yellow. The child's eyes clung to it as he returned
it. "Would you like to have it." the young woman asked, "would you like a pencil of your very
own, to draw with?" Would he! The child's whole face beamed. Dimes were as nothing compared
to shiney new pencils. The third grandchild was overjoyed with his new plaything. Ella Sanderson
was delighted with her great grandchild's pleasure. The interviewer received a warm and friendly
"Good-bye".

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Mary Scott
                    DeValls Bluff or Biscoe
Age:

"I said if ever I seed you agin I'd show you dis here scar on my head. See here [a puffed-out,
black, rusty, not quite round place, where no hair grew]. Dat dar what my young mistress put
on me when I was a chile. Dock Hardy hired me. He was rich and married a pore gal. It went
to her head. He was good to me. She was mean. She had him whoop me a time or two for nothin'.
They had two little babies, I stayed round wid. I loved em. I churned, brought in all the wood
mighty near, brought bout all the water from the spring. Master Dock be coming horseback from
Franklin, Tennessee. I knowed bout time I take the babies to meet him. He'd wait at a big stump
we could climb on his horse, take the baby in front and us up behind him, and put us off on
the back piazza at the house. I wrapped up the churn and quit. She ax me what I quit churnin'
for. I say the butter come. She say it ain't had time. I say it ready to take up anyhow. She
got so mad she throwed a stick of stove wood, hit me on my head. I run out crying, the blood
streamin' down. I started to the spring, come back and got the water bucket. I got me some
water and brought back a fresh bucket full. I washed my head in cool water where it was bleedin'.
It bled all way back. She say, 'Where you been?' I say I been to the spring, brought some cool
water to the babies. I give em some I told her. When I got water I always give them some. She
took the bucket, made me go wid her, poured the water out in the path under a shade tree, and
made me take 'nother bucketful home. I thought she was so mean; I didn't know what she was
doing that about. Got to the house she put me on a clean chemisette. I slipped off down to
the feed house, lay down, my head on the cotton seeds, and went to sleep.

"When Master Dock come he woke me up, wanted to know why I didn't meet him. He seen that blood.
Went on to the house. He ask her what done my head that way. She say, 'She went to the spring,
fell down, spilled the water, and hurt it on a rock.' I told him that wasn't so--not so! I
told him all bout it. He told her she ought to be 'shamed treat good little nigger chap mean.
He was so sorry for me. She didn't care. They had been goin' to old missis house every week.
It was three weeks 'fo she would go. I got to see my mama, 'fo she died.

"Old Mistress Emily was a doctor woman. Dock told her, 'Mama, Scrubbs jumps and screams bout
a hour late every evening wid her head.' When it got late it hurt and I screamed and jump up
and down. Mistress Emily come got me in her arms, put me to sleep. When I woke up Dock and
Kitty gone home with the babies. I cried bout being from the babies; I loved em, never been
away from em 'fo. She got three maggots and says, 'Scrubbs, see what I got out your little
head.' Mama had died then. She say, 'Your mama would want me to keep you here wid me.' She
kept me till it healed up. Them maggots big as a sage broom straw. We swept the floor wid sage
straw tied together then. Mistress Emily kept me a month with her and doctored my head every
day. I slept on a pallet and on a little bed she had in the room. When I went back to Kitty's
she wasn't as mean to me as she been--but mean nough then.

"My mama named Amy Hardy. She had five boys, three girls. She died with a young baby. I reckon
they had different papas. I was my papa's only chile. They all said that. Bout a month after
I went to Dock and Kitty's, it was surrender. He (the little Negro girl's father) come, stayed
all night, and took me wid him to live. Dock wanted me to stay; I love Dock and the children.
Every year till a few years ago my head get sore and run. We tried all kinds medicine on it.
Don't know what cured it.

"The week 'fo I left there I had a task to make a cut of thread every night, a reel. When I
heard papa was coming to git me, I put cotton bats under the reels and kivered em up. Good
thing papa got me--Kitty would killed me when she went to spin next week. She been so mean
why I done that way.

"They never sold any of our set but some on the place was sold. The mothers grieve and grieve
over their children bein' sold. Some white folks let their slaves have preachin', some wouldn't.
We had a bush arbor and set on big logs. Children set round on the ground. 'Fo freedom I never
went to preachin'. I kept Kitty's babies so she went. Mothers didn't see their children much
after they was sold.

"Fo freedom they would turn a wash pot upside-down at the door and have singin' and prayer
meetin'. The pot would take up the noise. They done that when they danced too. I don't know
how they found out the iron pot would take up the noise. They had plenty of em settin' round
in them days. Somebody found it out and passed it on."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mollie Hardy Scott, R.F.D., DeValls Bluff,
Arkansas Age: 90

"I was born at Granville, Georgia in Franklin County. I don't know my age cept I was big enough
to plow when young master lef and went to war. My mother died bout time the war started. We
belonged to Miss Eliza and Master Jim Hardy. He had two boys bout grown, Jim and John. My father
belong to the Linzys. I don't know nuthin much bout them nor him neither. When the war was
done he come and got me and we went to Barton County, Georgia. When I lef they give me my feather
bed, two good coverlets and my clothes. White folks hated fo me to leave. We all cried but
I never seen em no more. They said he take me off and let me suffer or die or something. I
was all the child my father had but my mother had ten children I knowed of. We all lived on
the place. They lived in a little log house and I stayed wid em some an up at white folks house
mostly. No I never seed my folks no more. We had plenty to eat. Had meat and garden stuff.
We had pot full of lye hominy. It last several days. It was good. I seed em open up a pot full
of boiled corn-on-the-cob. Plenty milk and butter. We had wash pot full of collards or turnip
salad. Maybe a few turnips on top and a big piece of fresh meat. We had plenty to eat and wear
long as I lived wid the white folks. We had goobers, molasses candy to pull and pop corn every
now and then. They fill all the pockets, set around the fire an eat at night. Sometimes we
bake eggs and sweet potatoes, cracklin hoe cake covered up in the ashes. Bake apples in front
of the fire on de hearth. Everybody did work an we sho had plenty to eat an wear.

"I had plenty when I stayed at my father's an we worked together all the time. When he died
I married. I've had a hard time not able to work. There ain't no hard time if yous able to
get bout. I pieces quilts an sells em now. Sells em if I can. For $150 piece (has no idea of
money value). Some women promissed to come git 'em but they ain't come yet. I wanter buy me
some shoes. I could do a heap if they send fo me. I can nurse. I kept a woman's children when
she teached last year (Negro woman's children).

"I brought four or five when I come to Arkansas of my own. They all dead but my one girl I
lives wid.

"Seemed lack so many colored folks coming out West to do better. We thought we come too. We
come on immigrate ticket on the train. All the people I worked for was Captain Williams, Dr.
Givens. Mr. Richardson right where Mesa is now but they called it 88 then (88 miles from Memphis).
Mr. Gates. I farmed, washed and ironed. I nursed some since I'm not able to get about in the
field. I never owned nothing. They run us from one year till the next and at the end of the
year they say we owe it bout all. If we did have a good crop we never could get ahead. We couldn't
get ahead nuff not to have to be furnished the next year. We did work but we never could get
ahead. If a darky sass a white land owner he would be whooped bout his account or bout anything
else. Yes siree right here in dis here county. Darky have to take what the white folks leave
fo em and be glad he's livin.

"I say I ain't never voted. Whut in de world I would want er vote for? Let em vote if they
think it do em good.

"I seen a whole gang of Ku Kluxes heap of times when I was little back in Georgia. I seed paddyrollers
and then they quit and at night the Ku Kluxes rode by. They would whoop or shoot you either
if you didn't tend to yo own business and stay at home at night. They kept black and white
doing right I tell you. I sho was afraid of them but they didn't bother us. If you be good
whose ever place you lives on would keep 'em from harmin you. They soon got all the bad Yankies
ran back North from Georgia. They whip the black men and women too but it was mostly the men
they watched and heap of it was for stealing. Folks was hungry. Couldn't help stealin if they
seed anything. I seed heap of folks having a mighty hard time after the war in them restruction
(Reconstruction) days. I was lucky.

"My daughter would do mo than she do fo me but she is a large woman and had both her legs broke.
They hurt her so bad it is hard fo her to do much. She good as she can be to everybody. The
Welfare give three of us $10.00 a month (daughter, husband, and Mollie). We mighty glad to
get that. We sho is. I am willin to work if I could get work I could do. That's my worst trouble.
Like I tell you, I can nurse and wash dishes if I could get the jobs.

"I don't see much of the real young folks. I don't know what they are doing much. If a fellow
is able he ought to be able to do good now if he can get out and go hunt up work fo himself.
That the way it look like. I don't know."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy Person interviewed: Sam Scott, Russellville, Arkansas Age: 79

"Hello dar, Mistah L----! Don' you dare pass by widout speakin' to dis old niggah friend of
yo' chil'hood! No suh! Yuh can't git too big to speak to me!

"Reckon you've seen about all dar is to see in de worl' since I seen you, ain't you? Well,
mos' all de old-time niggahs and whites is both gone now. I was born on de twentieth of July,
1879. Count up--dat makes me 79 (born 1859), don't it? My daddy's name was Sam, same as mine,
and mammy's was Mollie. Dey was slaves on de plantation of Capt. Scott--yes suh, Capt. John
R. Homer Scott--at Dover. My name is Sam, same as my father's, of course. Everybody in de old
days knowed Sam Scott. My father died in slavery times, but mother lived several years after.

"No, I never did dance, but I sure could play baseball and make de home runs! My main hobby,
as you calls it, was de show business. You remember de niggah minstrels we used to put on.
I was always stage manager and could sing baritone a little. Ed Williamson and Tom Nick was
de principal dancers, and Tom would make up all de plays. What? Stole a unifawm coat of yours?
Why, I never knowed Tom to do anything like that! Anyway, he was a good-hearted niggah--but
you dunno what he might do. Yes, I still takes out a show occasionally to de towns around Pope
and Yell and Johnson counties, and folks treat us mighty fine. Big crowds--played to $47.00
clear money at Clarksville. Usually take about eight and ten in our comp'ny, boys and gals--and
we give em a real hot minstrel show.

"De old show days? Never kin forgit em! I was stage manager of de old opery house here, you
remember, for ten years, and worked around de old printin' office downstairs for seven years.
No, I don't mean stage manager--I mean property man--yes, had to rustle de props. And did we
have road shows dem days! Richards & Pringle's Georgia minstrels, de Nashville students, Lyman
Twins, Barlow Brothers Minstrels, and--oh, ever so many more--yes, Daisy, de Missouri Girl,
wid Fred Raymond. Never kin forgit old black Billy Kersands, wid his mouf a mile wide!

"De songs we used to sing in old days when I was a kid after de War wasn't no purtier dan what
we used to sing wid our own minstrel show when we was at our best twenty-five and thirty years
ago; songs like 'Jungletown,' 'Red Wing,' and 'Mammy's Li'l Alabama Coon.' Our circuit used
to be around Holla Bend, Dover, Danville, Ola, Charleston, Nigger Ridge, out from Pottsville,
and we usually starred off at the old opery house in Russellville, of course.

"I been married, but ain't married now. We couldn't git along somehow. Yes suh, I been right
here workin' stiddy for a long time. Been janitor at two or three places same time; was janitor
of de senior high school here for twenty-two years, and at de Bank of Russellville twenty-nine
years.

"Folks always been mighty nice to me--and no slave ever had a finer master dan old Captain Scott.

"In de old show days de manager of de opery always said. 'Let de niggers see de show,' and
sometimes de house was half full of colored folks--white folks on one side de house and niggahs
on de other--and dere never was any disturbance of any kind. Ain't no sich good times now as
we had in de old road show days. No suh!"

NOTE: Sam Scott, who has been personally known to the interviewer for many years, is above
the average of the race for integrity and truthfulness. His statement that he was born a few
years after slavery and that his father died during slavery was not questioned the matter being
a delicate personal affair and of no special moment.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Cora Scroggins, Clarendon, Arkansas Age:
48 or 50

"My mother was born in Spring Hill, Tennessee and brought to Arkansas by her master. Her name
was Margaret. Dr. and Mrs. Porter brought my mother to Batesville, Arkansas when she was eight
years old and raised her. She was very light. She had long straight hair but was mixed with
white. She never knew much about her parents or people.

"Mr. William Brook (white) came to De Valls Bluff from Tennessee and brought her sister soon
after the War. She was a very black woman.

"Dr. Porter had a family. One of their daughters was Mrs. Mattie Long, another Mrs. Willie
Bowens. There were others. They were all fine to my mother. She married in Dr. Porter's home.
Mrs. Porter had learnt her to sew. My father was a mechanic. My mother sewed for both black
and white. She was a fine dressmaker. She had eight children and raised six of us up grown.

"My father was a tall rawbony brown man. His mother was an Indian squaw. She lived to be one
hundred seven years old. She lived about with her children. The white folks all called her
'Aunt Matildy' Tucker. She was a small woman, long hair and high cheek bones. She wore a shawl
big as a sheet purty nigh all time and smoked a pipe. I was born in Batesville.

"My mother spoke of her one long journey on the steamboat and stagecoach. That was when she
was brought to Arkansas. It made a memorable picture in her mind.

"Dr. and Mrs. Porter told her she was free and she could go or stay. And she had nowheres to
go and she had always lived with them white folks. She never did like black folks' ways and
she raised us near like she was raised as she could.

"She used to tell us how funny they dressed and how they rode at night all through the country.
She seen them and she could name men acted as Ku Kluxes but they never bothered her and she
wasn't afraid of them.

"I cooked all my life till I got disabled. I never had a child. I wish I had a girl. I've been
considered a fine cook all of my life." Date and time of interview--November 3, 1958, 10:00 a.m.

3. Place of interview--Route 4, Box 685, Pine Bluff, Arkansas

4. Name and address of person, if any, who put you in touch with informant--Georgia Caldwell,
Route 6, Box 128, Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

5. Name and address of person, if any, accompanying you--None.

6. Description of room, house, surroundings, etc.--Frame house, front porch with two swings.
Fence around yard. Chinaberry tree and Tree of Paradise, Coxcomb in yard. Southeast of Norton-Wheeler
Stave Mill just off Highway 65.

Text of Interview

"Prewitt Tiller bought my mother and I belonged to young master. In slavery I was a good-sized-young
girl, mama said. Big enough to put the table cloths on the best I could. After freedom I did
all the cookin' and milkin' and washin'.

"Now listen, this young master was Prewitt's son.

"Grandpa's name was Ned Peeples and grandma was Sally Peeples. My mother was Dorcas. Well,
my papa, I ain't never seed him but his name was Josh Allen. You see, they just sold 'em around.
That's what I'm talkin' about--they went by the name of their owners.

"I'm seventy-eight or seventy-nine or eighty. That's what the insurance man got me up.

"I been in a car wreck and I had high blood pressure and a stroke all at once. And that wreck,
the doctor said it cracked my skull. Till now, I ain't got no remembrance.

"You know how long I went to school? Three days. No ma'm I had to work, darlin'.

"I was born down here on Saline River at Selma. I done forgot what month."

"What kinda work have I done? Oh, honey, I done farmed myself to death, darlin'. You know Buck
Couch down here at Noble Lake? Well, I hoped pick out eight bales of cotton for him.

"I wish I had the dollars I had workin' for R.A. Pickens down here at Walnut Lake. Yes, honey,
I farmed for him bout fifteen or twenty years steady.

"And he sure was nice and he was mischievous. He called all of us his chillun. He use to say,
'Now you must mind your papa!' And we'd say 'Now Mr. Pickens, you know you ain't got no nigger
chillun'. He use to say to me 'Sallie, you is a good woman but you ain't got no sense'. Them
was fine white folks.

"Honey, these white folks round here what knows me, knows they ain't a lazy bone in my body.

"I'se cooked and washed and ironed and I'se housecleaned. Yes'm, I certainly was a good cook.

"I belongs to the Palestine Baptist Church. Yes ma'm. I don't know what I'd do if twasn't for
the good Master. I talks to Him all the time.

"I goes to this here government school. A man teaches it. I don't know what his name is, we
just calls him Professor.

"Well, chile, I'll tell you the truf. These young folks is done gone. And some o' these white
headed women goes up here truckin'. It's a sin and a shame. I don't know what's gwine come of 'em."

Interviewer's Comment

This woman lives with her daughter Angelina Moore who owns her home.

Mother and daughter both attend government school. Both were neatly dressed. The day was warm
so we sat on the front porch during the interview.

Personal History of Informant

1. Ancestry--Grandfather, Ned Peeples; grandmother, Sally Peeples; Mother, Dorcas Peeples;
Father, Josh Allen.

2. Place and date of birth--On Saline River, Selma, Arkansas. No date.

3. Family--Two daughters and granddaughter.

4. Places lived in, with dates--Desha County, Walnut Lake, Noble Lake, (Arkansas) Poplar Bluff,
Missouri. No dates.

5. Education, with dates--Three days, "after freedom". Attends government school now.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--Farmwork, cooking, laundry work until 1936.

7. Special skills and interests--Cooking.

8. Community and religious activities--Member of Palestine Baptist Church.

9. Description of informant--Medium height, plump, light complexion and gray hair.

10. Other points gained in interview--Injured in auto wreck seven years ago.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Roberta Shaver, West Memphis, Arkansas
Age: 50

"I was born close to Natchez, Mississippi. Grandma was sold at Wickerson County, Mississippi.
They took her in a wagon to Jackson, Tennessee. She was mother of two children. They took them.
She was part Indian. She was a farm woman. Her name was Dicy Jackson. They sold her away from
the Jacksons to Dobbins. She was a house woman in Jackson, Tennessee. She said they was good
to her in Tennessee. Grandma never was hit a lick in slavery. Grandpa was whooped a time or
two. He run off to the woods for weeks and come back starved. He tended to the stock and drove
Master Clayton around. He was carriage driver when they wanted to go places.

"After freedom grandma set out to get back to grandpa. Walked and rode too I reckon. She brought
her children back. After a absence of five years she and grandpa went back together. They met
at Natchez, Mississippi. Mama was born after freedom.

"The way grandma said she was sold was, a strange man come there one day and the master had
certain ones he would sell stand in a line and this strange man picked out the ones he wanted
and had them get their belongings and put them in the wagon and took them on off. She never
seen grandpa for five years."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Mary Shaw
                    1118 Palm Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 77
Occupation: Laundry work

"I was born in Bolivar County, Mississippi. My mother didn't know how old I was but after freedom
I went by Miss Ann Blanchet's--that was my mother's old missis--and she said I was born in 1861.

"But I don't know nothin' 'bout slavery or the War. I was born and bred in the desert and my
mother said it was a long time after freedom 'fore she knowed anything about it. She said there
was just lots of the folks said, to their knowin', they had been free three years 'fore they
knowed anything about it.

"My husband brought me to Arkansas when I was 35 and I been workin' in the same family, Captain
Jeter's family, ever since-forty odd years.

"I always have worked hard. I've had the flu only reason I'm sittin' here now. If I had to
sit and hold my hands very long, they'd have to take me to Little Rock.

"I been married twice. My last husband was Sam Shaw. He was a great whiskey man and when whiskey
went out, he went to bootleggin' and they got behind him and he left.

"He wrote me once and said if I'd borrow some money on my home and send it to him, he'd come
back. I wrote and told him just like I'm tellin' you that after I had worked night and day
to pay for this house while he was off tellin' some other woman lies just like he told me,
I wasn't goin' to send him money. So I ain't seen him since.

"I ain't never been to school much. When schools got numerous in Mississippi they had me behind
a plow handle.

"Mrs. Jeter made me mad once and I quit. My first husband was a porter on the railroad and
I got on the train and went to Memphis with him.

"One time he come back from a trip to Pine Bluff and handed me a little package. I opened it
and it was a note from Mrs. Jeter and a piece of corn bread. She said, 'Now, Mary, you see
what I've had to eat. I want you to come back.' So I went back and stayed 'til she died. And
now I'm workin' for her daughter, Mrs. McEwen. Mrs. Jeter used to say, 'Mary, I know you're
not a Arkansas woman 'cause you ain't got a lazy bone in your body.'"

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Violet Shaw, West Memphis, Arkansas Age: 50

"I heard Grandma Katie Williams say she was put up on a high stump and auctioned off. She told
how great-grandma cried and cried and never seen her no more. Grandma come from Oakland, Tennessee
to Mississippi. Grandma took the two young children and left the other two with great-grandma.
They took her from her husband. She never seen none of them again.

"After freedom she didn't know how to find them. She never could get trace of them. She tried.
She never married no more. I was born at Clarksdale, Mississippi. I have seen Tom Pernell (white),
the young master, come and spend the night with Henry Pernell. Henry had once been Tom's father's
slave and carriage driver. I was too small to know the cause but I remember that several times
mighty well. They fixed him up a clean bed by hisself. Henry lived in town. But he might have
been drunk. I never seen no misbehavior out of him. It was strange to me to see that.

"Freedom--Aunt Mariah Jackson was freed at Dublin, Mississippi. She said she was out in the
field working. A great big white man come, jumped up on a log and shouted, 'Freedom! Freedom!'
They let the log they was toting down; six, three on a side, had holt of a hand stick toting
a long heavy log. They was clearing up new ground. He told them they was free. They went to
the house. They cooked and et and thanked God. Some got down and prayed, some sung. They had
a time that day. They got the banjo and fiddle and set out playing. Some got in the big road
just walking. She said they had a time that day." Although bent with rheumatism and age, he
still retains his mental faculties to a remarkable degree.

An inquiry as to his health elicited the following reply: "I'se a willful mind but a weak body.
Just like an old tree--de limbs are withered and almost dead. I'se been here a long tins, ovah
81 years, and am ready to go any time de good Lawd says de word. Dat's de trouble wid de people
nowadays--dey ain't prepared. Back when I wuz a young man, dey wuzn 't so much meaness, and
such goings on as dey are nowadays. De young-peple know as much as de old folks. Yas, suh,
de worl' am goin' to de dogs."

Asked about life in pioneer days, the old negro replied; "We had lots ob good times in dem
days. Log rollings wuz lots ob fun to me as I wuz strong den, an' I could "show off" befo'
de odder niggers. Dey wuzn't much rollin' to it, mostly carrying. I mind de time when I lifted
de end ob a log, an' four men tried at different times to lift de odder, but dey couldn't do
it. Three of dese men went to an early grave from trying to lift dis log--all tore up inside.
Maybe dat's whut ails me.

"You had to be careful den, when traveling through de woods, or de varmints would git you,
especially at night. I mind de time when a negro wuz comin' through de woods one nite, when
he seed a panther about to spring on him.

"Dis nigger dropped in his tracks lack he wuz dead. De panther came up to him and smelled ob
him, but de nigger held his breath, and de panther thought he wuz dead. De panther covered
him wid leaves an' went about one hundred yards into de woods to call his friends to de feast.
No sooner had he left when de nigger jumped up and climbed a tree, first rutting an old chunk
of wood in de place where he wuz buried. De nigger could hear de panther out in de woods as
he called for his friends, and pretty soon, here dey come, about five of 'em. Slowly circling
aroun' de place where de nigger had been, all of a sudden dey all jumped. Findin' nothin' but
de old chunk of wood, dem panthers got real mad. Wid angry growls, dey jumped on de one whut
had called dem, and ate him up."

This old negro reserves all of the heroic roles for others. Asked if he had had any experience
with the "varmints", as he termed them he said: "Yas, suh. De worst scared I ever got wuz frum
a wolf. Walkin' down a trail one day, I spied a wolf not more than ten feet away. Man, I wuz
so scared dat I seemed to freeze in my tracks, and couldn't move. I tried to holler but all
I could do wuz croak. Den I tried to whistle but de only sound I could make wuz a hiss. After
standing for whut seemed hours, wid his ears sticking straight up, de wolf finally turned around
and trotted away."

The conversation drifted to other topics, and finally to ghosts and spirits. The old negro
said he had never seen a ghost, and didn't believe in those things. No sooner had he said this
when his wife, who had been listening in on the conversation from the inside of the door exclaimed:
"I does! Seein' is believin' aint it? Well suh, about two years ago de negro dat lived next
door died. A few weeks after he died I wuz settin' out on de porch when I see dis negro come
out of de house, and walk slowly to de corner of mah yard where he vanished into de air. A
few nights later de same thing happened again. No suh, dat nigger didn't go to Heaven and he
didn't go to Hell. He's still around heah. He wuz a wicked negro and wuz scared to go."

2. Date and time of interview interview--

3. Place of interview--1518 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

4. Name and address of person, if any who put you in touch with informant--

5.

2. Place and date of birth--Arkansas, 1878

3. Family--Three children.

4. Education, with dates--

5. Places lived in with dates--Jerome, Arkansas and Little Rock. No dates.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--Farmed, wash and iron.

9. Description of informant--

10. Other points gained in interview--

Text of Interview (Unedited)

"My mother used to sit down and talk to us and tell us about slavery. If she had died when
I was young I wouldn't have known much. But by her living till I was old, I learned a lot.

"My mother's old master was Tom Barnett, so she said. No, not 'so she said' because I have
seed him. He give her her age and all at that time. I have it in my Bible. He said that she
was twelve years old the Christmas before the surrender. The surrender was in May, wasn't it?

"My mother's name was Susan Bearden. She married Ben Bearden. She worked in Tom Barnett's house.
She milked and churned and 'tended to the children and all such as that. He never allowed her
to go to the field. Neither her mother, my grandmother. She was the cook. My mother's name
before she married was Susan Barnett.

"An old colored lady that they had there seed after the colored children. She looked after
my mother too. She was so old she couldn't do nothin' so they had her to look after the children.
My grandmother was kept busy because she had the white folks to cook for and she had all the
colored folks to cook for too.

"There is an old lady down on Spring Street that can give you a lot of information about slavery
times.

"A boy was telling her that somebody was going 'round asking questions about slavery and she
said she wished he would come and see her.

"My mother never had any chance to go to school before freedom and she never had any chance
to go afterwards because she didn't have any money. When they turned them loose the white folks
didn't give 'em anything, so they had to work. They didn't allow them to pick up a piece of
paper in slave time for fear they would learn.

"My mother remembered the pateroles. She said they used to catch and whip the colored men and
women when they would get out.

"My mother's old master was the one that told mama she was free. He told her she was free as
he was. After they learned that they were free, they stayed on till Christmas.

"After Christmas, they went to another plantation. My gran'pa, he come and got them all to
come. My gran'pa's name was Harvey Barnett. His old master's son had married and he had been
staying with him. That made him be on another place. There was a good many of the children
in my grandmother's family. Mama had a sister named Lucy, one named Lethe, one named Caroline,
one named Annie, and one named Jane. She had two boys--one named Jack, and one named Barnett.
She had another sister named--I don't remember her name.

"After freedom, we sharecropped for a number of years up until my father died. He died about
twenty-four years ago.

"After that mama washed and ironed for about ten or twelve years. Then she got too old to work
and we took care of her. My mother died last March on the ninth day. She always had good health
for an old lady. Never got so she couldn't get up and do her light work such as dress herself,
cooking, sweeping, and so on. She would even do her own washing and ironing if we would let
her. She would hide from us and pick cotton till we stopped her.

"She was sick only one week and the doctor said she died of old age. He said it was just her
time. She didn't have nothin' the matter with her but jus' old age he said so far as he could
find. Dr. Fletcher was our doctor. She died in Jerome, Arkansas about sixteen miles from the
Louisiana line. Leastwise, they tell me it's about sixteen miles from the line. She always
told us that she had her business fixed with the Lord and that when she taken sick, It wouldn't
be long. And sure 'nough, it wasn't.

"I farmed until my mother and brother died. Then I came up here with my sister as I had no
children living. I jus' wash and iron now whenever I can get somethin' to do.

"I have been married once. I had three children. All of them are dead. My children are dead
and my husband is dead.

"I belong to the Baptist church down on Spring Street. I always unite with the church whenever
I go to a place. I don't care whether I stay there or not.

"My mama's master was good as far as white folks generally be in slavery times. He never whipped
my grandmother nor my mother. He was good to the field hands too. He never whipped them. He
would feed them too. He had right smart of field hands but I don't know just how many. I don't
think he ever sold any of his slaves. I think he come by them from his father because I have
heard them say that his father told him before he died never to 'part with Black Mammy. That
was what he called her. And he kept them altogether jus' like his father told him to. His father
said, 'I you to keep all my Negroes together and Black Mammy I don't want you let her be whipped
because she nursed all of you.' She said she never was whipped 'cept once when she got a cockle
berry up her nose and he got it out and gave her a little brushing--not as much as grandma
would have given her.

"He kept them all in good shoes and warm clothes and give them plenty to eat. So many of the
slaves on other plantations didn't have half enough to eat and were half naked and barefooted
all the time."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mahalia Shores, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 77

"I was born in Greene County, Georgia. My owner was Jim Jackson. He bought my mother's father.
She was raised on Jim Jackson's place. I rec'collect a right smart about slavery times. He
made us dress up and let the nigger traders see what little niggers I got. We thought it was
nice. What fine limbs we had. Aunt Judy--some called her 'big mamma'--lived down under the
hill. She was old and seen after the children. The biggest children took care and nursed the
little ones. On Wednesday and Saturday the cook made ginger cakes for the little children.
The house girl called us. She was Aunt Teena's girl. Aunt Teena was a housemaid. See little
niggers coming from every direction to get our cakes.

"Jim Jackson's wife was named Mariah. They lived in a big fine white house. When it was freedom
a soldier come, brought a paper and Massa Jim was settin' on the porch. Tom Chapman was his
overseer. They rung the big farm bell and had the oldest niggers stand in a line and us little
ones in front so we could all see. Tom Chapman read the paper and stood by the soldier. He
had two big plantations. Massa Jim got sick that day and vomited and vomited. He lived a week
or two weeks. They sent for Dr. Ducham but he couldn't do him no good. He died. Massa Jim told
them they could take the teams and go to town, all he ax of 'em was to feed and take care of
'em. Every one of the grown folks went and left us at home. Aunt Judy seen 'bout us like she
been doing all the time. They went over to Greensboro to celebrate. They all come back. They
was all ready fer their breakfastes. It was twelve miles from Greensboro. Then the next day
Massa Jim or Tom Chapman, one called the grown folks to the house and told them, 'You can stay
and I will pay you or you can go. I pay no more doctor bills. I don't feed you no more nor
give you no more clothes.' Some moved and some hired to him. Some went to his father-in-law's
place and some to his brothers' place and around. His wife was rich. She was Dave Butler's
gal. No, I mean Massa Jim's wife--Miss Mariah. That big place was what her pa give her. Massa
Jim had five hundred little niggers on that place and lots more on the big plantation. He had
about two thousand little niggers. We went in droves is right.

"I never went to a table in slavery time. We had our plates and cup and took it to the pot
and they put some victuals in 'em, then we went and et where we pleased. We had all the meat
we could eat and all the milk we could drink all the time. Aunt Teena sewed and grandma would
weave cloth. They made white aprons. My hair was nice and old mistress would tell Aunt Judy
to curl my hair. They rolled it up on cloth and on little light cobs. If they wet it, it would
stay curled.

"Massa Jim sold his niggers when he wanted to. He sold my grandpa and Uncle Steve. Grandma
wanted him to sell her and he wouldn't do it. I don't know what become of grandpa. After freedom
Uncle Steve come back to us all. Grandpa was crying. He come to our house and said he had to
go. We never seen him no more.

"Some of the slaves wouldn't be whooped by Tom Chapman. I heard them say since I got grown
he 'tacked 'em. It caused trouble. He couldn't whoop 'em then. Old master whooped some of 'em.
Some would say, 'I take ten licks offen you and that is all.' Then he would sell them the first
chance. They would go to the woods if he beat them too much. He didn't abuse his niggers. He
said his niggers was his property. Aunt Sarah tended to the cows and Aunt Clarisa raised geese,
turkeys, chickens, ducks, and churned.

"The Ku Klux come to our house, called Uncle Billy--that was my papa. They got him up out of
bed. One man said, 'I ain't had no water since the battle of Shiloah.' He had pa draw water
till daybreaking. He had a horn he poured the water in. We was all scared half to death. Next
morning there was a branch from the well done run off. Something took place about a well. Uncle
Neel Anderson and Uncle Cush dug wells for their living. They come after them. Aunt Mandy had
a baby. They pitied her and Uncle Neel got so scared he run upstairs in his shirt tail and
stuck his head in the cotton. They found him that way. Uncle Cush said, 'Come on, Neel, and
go with me.' They whooped Uncle Cush in his shirt tail. If you didn't open the door they would
break it in.

"I worked in the field in Georgia and Arkansas both. I cooked since I was twelve years old.
I married when I was twenty years old. I cooked here in Marianna eighteen years and I have
cooked three Sunday dinners on Saturday and Sunday together. I would make three dollars when
I done that. I had five children and I raised one boy. I washed and ironed. I get some help
from the Welfare but I saved and my good old man saved so we would have plenty when we got
old. Folks burnt up two of my houses. I got three more not fitten to live in till they are
covered. I got good property in Stuttgart but couldn't pay the tax on it and 'bout to loose
it. I tried to get a loan and never could. We niggers have a hard time."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Rosa Simmons
                    823 West 13th Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85?

"Yes mam, I was here during that Civil War. I was fifteen years old then. I was born In Tennessee.

"My boss man carried all the best hands to Texas and carried the scrub hands across Cypress
Creek here in Arkansas, and that's where I come. I was fifteen when the Yankees come in on
my boss man's place, so you know now I ain't no baby. I thank God that He left me here to get old.

"Before the war. I nussed two babies--my mistress' baby and her sister's baby. Yes'm we had
a good master and mistress. We didn't suffer for nothin' and we didn't have no overseer over
us. Colonel Maples was my master. No'm he wasn't no soldier--that was the name his mother give him.

"When my folks first come to Arkansas we lived in a cabin that just had a balin' sack hangin'
in the door and one night a bear come in and my brother and I broke a board off the side and
fell right out in the cane. We all hollered so some folks come down and shot the bear. I ain't
never seed a bear before and I didn't know what it was.

"I 'member when the Yankees come to my boss man's place. They wanted to shake hands but he
was scared to death and wouldn't do it. Another time the Yankees captured him and kept him
three months. They took his horse and he finally come home on a mule that didn't have but three
legs. I guess the Yankees give him the mule. He turned the old mule loose and said he never
wanted to see another Yankee. If he saw any kind of a white man comin' down the road he run
in the house and hid between the feather bed and the mattress.

"One time the Yankees come and drunk the sweet milk and took all the butter, turkeys and hogs
and then broke the powder horn against the maple tree.

"The cook say 'I'm gwine tell Marse Joe you drink all this milk.' The Yankees say, 'Let the
damn fool alone--here we are tryin' to free her and she ain't got no sense.' They said there
wouldn't be any more hard times after the war.

"But I sure have seen some hard times. I have washed and cooked and done 'bout everything.

"When I get up in the morning I got the limburger (lumbago) in my back so I ain't able to do
much. Sometimes I have something to eat and sometimes I don't."

Mrs. Carol Graham Mrs. Mildred Thompson El Dorado District

Fannie Sims. Customs.

"How ole is ah? Ise about 78. Yes'm ah wuz live durin de wah. Mah ole moster wuz Mistuh Jake
Dumas we lived near de Ouachita rivuh bout five miles fum El Dorado landin. Ah membush dat
we washed at de spring way, way fum de house. What dat yo say? Does ah know Ca'line. Ca'line,
lawsy, me yes. Ca'line Washington we use tuh call huh, she wuz one uv Mr. Dumas niggers. We
washed fuh de soldiers. Had tuh carry day clo'es tuh dem aftuh dark. Me an Ca'line had tuh
carry dem. We had tuh hide de horse tuh keep de soldiers fum gittin him. When we would take
de horse tuh de plum orchard we would stay dah all day to dark wid "Blackie". Dat wuz de horse's
name. Mah job mostly wuz tuh watch de chillun an feed mah mistress chickens.

"Ah kin recollect when dey took us an started tuh Texas an got as fur as El Dorado and found
out dat us niggers wuz free. We went back an grandma's mistress's son took us home wid him
fuh stretches and stretches. We lived on de ole Camden road.

"In mah days ah've done plenty uv work but ah don' do nothing now but piece quilts. Dat's whut
ah've been doing fuh mah white fokes since ah been heah. Ah jes finished piecing and quiltin
two uv em. De Glove[TR:?] and de Begger. Mah husban' been dead 31 years dis pas' August. No,
ah counts is by dose twins ah raised. One uv em lives in dis heah place right heah. Ah aint
much count now. Sometime mah laig gets so big ah jes had tuh sloop mah foot erlong."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Jerry Sims (Indian and Negro)
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: Born 1859

"I was born in 1859 close to Natchez, Mississippi. Chief Sims was my grandpa. He was Indian,
full blood. His wife was a Choctaw Indian. Grandpa was a small red Indian. They kept my pa
hid out with stock nearly all time of the Civil War. Both my mas' parents was nearly all Indian
too but they was mixed. I'm more Indian than anything else. I heard pa talk about staying in
the cane brakes. Mighty few cane brakes to be found now. I come with my grandpa and grandma
to Arkansas when I was five years old.

"My ma belong to Quill and Sely Whitaker. I et and slept with Hattie and Bud and Rob Whitaker.
Quill Whitaker was a Union surgeon in the Civil War.

"I don't think any of my folks was ever sold. They was of a porer class and had to have a living
and sorter become slaves for a living. I never heard ma say how she got in bondage. Pa stayed
with John Rob bout like a slave.

"I am a farmer. I am not on the PWA. Times for me is hard. You see some has so much and others
hardly can live atall.

"It is not for me to say about the young generation. I have mighty little to do with any of them.

"I have voted but not lately. I never did understand voting."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Victoria Sims, Helena, Arkansas Age: 76

"I was born in Limestone County, Alabama. It was on a river. Where I was born they called it
Elks Mouth. Our owners was Frank Martin and Liza Martin. They raised papa. Their daughter aired
(heired) him. Her name was Miss (Mrs.) Betty Hansey. Papa's name was Ed Martin. I stood on
a stool and churned for papa's young mistress. The churn was tall as I was. I loved milk so
good and they had plenty of it--all kinds. Soon as ever I get through, they take up the butter.
I'd set 'round till they got it worked up so I could get a piece of bread and fresh butter
and a big cup of that fresh milk. They always fixed it for me.

"Mama was Minthy Martin. She cooked on another place. She was a nurse. Her papa belong to one
person and her mother to somebody else. Mama was Minthy Bridgeforth but I don't have her owner's
name. I guess she was sold. I heard her say the Bridgeforth's was good to her. Some white man
whooped on her once. I never heard her say much about it. Papa's owners was good to him. They
was crazy about him. I knowed papa's owners the best and I lived there heap the most. I was
born a slave but I don't know who I belong to. I've studied that over myself. I used to go
back to see papa's owners. They owned lots of slaves and lots of land. Papa done a lot of different
things. He fed and farmed and cleaned off the yards and slopped the pigs. He done what they
said do, well as I can recollect. I wasn't with mama till after freedom. Mama said her white
folks was treated mighty mean during the War. Once the soldiers come and mama was so scared
she took the baby and run got in the cellar. They throwed out everything they had to eat. They
took off barrels of things to eat and left them on starvation. One soldier come one time and
wanted mama to go to the camps. She was scared not to go, scared he'd shoot her down. She told
him she'd go the next day soon as she could get up her things and tell her folks she had gone.
He agreed to that. Soon as he left she and some other young women on the place put out to the
cane brakes and caves. She said they nearly starved. The white folks sent them baskets of victuals
several times. Mama said she had some pretty beads she wore. Somebody had made her a present
of them. She loved 'em. I think she said they was red. Mama's mistress told her to hide her
beads, the soldiers would take them. She hid them up in the loft of their house on a nail.
One day a gang come scouting and they rummaged the whole house and place. When the soldiers
left she thought about her beads and went to see and they was gone. She cried and cried about
them. That was before she went to the canebrakes.

"When freedom come on, the owners told them they was free. They didn't leave and then they
made a way for them to stay on. They stayed on.

"I was grown when we come to this state but we lived in Tennessee a few years. Mama had had
nine children by that time. All was dead, but us two girls and my brother. We come to Arkansas
with our parents. We heard the land was new and rich. I wasn't married then.

"I've worked hard in the field all my life till last year or so. I still do work.

"Times is tough here I tell you. I get a little help, six dollars.

"Some of the young folks won't work, some not able to work. If anybody saving a thing I don't
hear about it."

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Virginia Sims
                    1121 N. Magnolia
                    Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 93
Occupation: Retired Midwife

"I was born in 1844. I was twenty when peace was declared. I was born in Virginia. Yes ma'am,
but I was sold, put up on a stump just like you sell hogs to the highest speculator. I was
sold with my mother from a man named Joe Poindexter and bought by Tom Murphy and brought to
Arkansas. My God, every Murphy round here knows me. Yes'm, my mother and me was sold. Papa
wasn't sold, but he come here the second year after surrender.

"I was old enough to spin twelve cuts a day--had it to do. And I could weave cloth just like
they do now.

"Had seven brothers and I'm the onliest girl.

"I can recollect when Miss Mary Poindexter died. They said I was two.

"My mistis in Arkansas was Mrs. Susan Murphy. That was out on the plantation, we didn't live
in no city--my God, no!

"The way my people acts now, they looks foolish. I never heard a person curse till I come up
here. I was a grown young lady nineteen years old when our master lowed us to get out and cote.
You better not. The first husband I married I was nineteen goin' on twenty. My husband fought
on the Southern side. His master sent him as a substitute.

"My master put good clothes on me, I'd say. 'Master. I wants a dress like so and so, and I
wants a pair of shoes.' Yes ma'am, and he got em for me. I was forty-three and married to a
nigger fore I knowed what twas to cry for underwear.

"I member they was a white man called Dunk Hill and he said, 'Virginia, who freed the niggers?'
I said, 'God freed the niggers.' He said, 'Now, Virginia, you goin' be just as free as I am
some day!'

"General Shelby's troops was comin' on this side the ribber. That's one time I was scared.
Never seed so many men in my life. They wanted something to eat. Mama cooked all night. They
was nine hundred and somethin'. I toted canteens all night long.

"I member when they had that Marks Mill battle. My husband was there and he sent word for me
to come cause he had the measles and they had went in on him. I had to put on boots and wade
mud. Young folks now ain't got no sense. I see so many folks now with such dull understanding.
Marks Mill was the onliest part of the war I was in.

"General Shelby and Captain Blank, they whetted their swords together when peace was declared.
Captain said, 'General, I'm not crazy and neither am I a coward. I looked up and seem like
a man was comin' out the clouds, and so I'm goin' to surrender.'

"Them cavalry men--they'd say, 'Ride!' and how they'd go.

"I seen em when they was enlistin'. Said they was goin' to whip the Yankees and be back for
breakfast in the morning.

"Marse Ben was goin' and Miss Susan say, 'Virginia, if you think he ain't goin' come back you
ought to kiss him goodbye.' I said, 'I ain't goin' to kiss no white man.'

"Miss Fanny went up the ladder and sot rite on the roof and watched the soldiers goin' by.
Yes'm. Old master whipped me with a little peach stick cause I let Frankie--we called her Frankie--go
up the ladder. I said I couldn't stop her cause she said if I told her papa, she and Becky
goin' to whip me. He whipped Miss Fanny. Old miss come in and say, 'Ain't you goin' whip this
nigger?' She was mean as the devil. Oh, God, yes. She so mean she didn't know what to do. But
old master kep her down. You know some of these redheaded women, they just as devilish as they
can be. We had some neighbors, Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Daniels and old miss would be out there
on the lawn quarrelin' till it was just like a fog. Us niggers would be out there listenin'.

"But I was always treated good. You know if I had been beat over the head I couldn't recollect
things now. My head ain't been cracked up. Nother thing. I always been easy controlled.

"I never went to school a day. After we was freed we stayed right on the Murphy place. They
paid us and we worked on the shares. That's the reason I say I done better when I was a slave."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Senya Singfield
                    1613 W. Second Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 74

"I was born in Washington, Virginia right at the foot of the Blue Ridge Mountains. My mother
was sold when I was a babe in her arms. She was sold three times. I know one time when she
had four children she was sold and one of my brothers was sold away unbeknownst to her. Her
old master sold her away from her mistress. She was a cook and never was mistreated.

"I ain't never been to school. When I got big enough, my mother was a widow and I had to start
out and make a living. I've always been a cook. Used to keep a boarding house, up until late
years. I've washed and ironed, sewed a right smart and quilted quilts. I've done anything I
could to turn an honest living. Oh I've been through it but I'm still here. I've been a widow
over forty years.

"I think the folks nowdays are about run out. They are goin' too fast. When I was comin' up,
I had to have some manners. My mother didn't low me to 'spute nobody."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Peggy Sloan
                    2450 Howard Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 80, or more
Occupation: Farming

"I was born in Arkansas in Tulip, in Dallas County I think it is, isn't it?

"Charlotte Evans was mother's name and my father's name was Lige Evans. Gran'daddy David was
my mother's father, and Cheyney was my mother's mother.

"Mr. Johnnie Sumner was the name of my young master, and the old man was Mr. Judge Sumner.
The old people are all dead now. Mr. Judge Sumner was Johnnie Sumner's father. Me and Mr. Johnnie
suckled together. Mr. Johnnie came to Fordyce they say looking for the old slaves. I didn't
know about it then. I never would know him now. That is been so long ago. I sure would like
to see 'im.

"My mother ain't told me much about herself in slave times. She was a nurse. She lived in a
log cabin. You know they had cabins for all of them. The colored lived in log houses. The white
people had good houses. Them houses was warmer than these what they got now.

"My grandma could cut a man's frock-tail coat. These young people don't know nothin' 'bout
that. Grandma was a milliner. She could make anything you used a needle to make.

"Lige Evans was the name my father took after the surrender. He wasn't named that before the
surrender--in the olden times. My mother had fifteen children. She was the largest woman you
ever seen. She weighed four hundred pound. She was young Master Johnnie's nurse. Mr. Johnnie
said he wanted to come and see me. I heard he lives way on the other side of Argenta somewheres.

"I was my mama's seventh girl, and I got a seventh girl living. I had fifteen children. My
mother's children were all born before the surrender.

"Mr. Judge Sumner and his son were both good men. They never whipped their slaves.

"They didn't feed like they do now. I et corn bread then, and I eat it now. Some people say
they don't. They would give them biscuits on Sundays. They had a cook to cook for the hands.
She got all their meals for them.

"They had a woman to look after the little colored children, and they had one to look after
the white children. My mother was a nurse for the white children. My mother didn't have nothing
to do with the colored children.

"I didn't never have no trouble with the pateroles. Sometimes they would come down the lane
running the horses. When I would hear them, I would run and git under the bed. I was the scaredest
soul you ever seen. I think that's about all I can remember.

"I was the mother of fifteen children. I had one set of twins, a boy and a girl. The doctor
told me you never raise a boy and a girl twin. My boy is dead. All of my children are dead but two.

"I was raised on the farm. I want a few acres of ground now so bad.

"I never was married but once. My husband's name was David Sloan. I don't know exactly how
long he and me were married. It was way over twenty years. My license got burnt up.

"You know I couldn't be nothin' but a Christian."

Interviewer's Comment

Peggy Sloan's memory is going. She is not certain of the number of children her mother had
although she knows there were more than seven because she was the seventh.

She remembers nothing about her age, but she knows definitely that all of her mother's children
were born before the War--that is before the end of the War. Since the War ended seventy-three
years ago and she was the seventh child with possibly seven behind her, I feel that she could
not be younger than eighty. She remembers definitely running at the approach of men she calls
pateroles during "slavery time."

Her mind may be fading, but it is a long way from gone. She questioned me closely about my
reason for getting statements from her. She had to be definitely satisfied before the story
could be gotten.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Arzella Smallwood
                    Hazen R.F.D., Green Grove, Arkansas
Age: 60 Doesn't know exact age

"I was born about eight miles from Williston, South Carolina. After freedom my mother married
Lee Ballinger and she had six children. He died when I was real small. My mother was named
Hester McCrary. Old Master McCrary bought grandma and my mother in Virginia. One sister my
mother never did run across after freedom. She was older and sold to other people. I think
at freedom my mother left and I think grandma did too. My grandpa was half Indian, but I never
did see him to remember what he looked like. Our young master is a doctor. He waited on my
mother before she died. Grandma was blind and she lived with us. Our young master may still
be living. Old mistress was named Sylvania and she sent for my mother to come wait on her when
she got sick to die. I think they had pretty fair treatment there. My mother was to be a house
girl and cook. I think grandma was a cook and field woman both.

"I heard them say the white folks took them to church to learn to pray, then they didn't allow
them to pray for freedom. But I don't think they wanted freedom. After they was set free they
died up so scand'lous. Grandma said they had to work harder. My mother brought a good price
because she was real light color and sharp to learn. She had six children and we was all darker
than she was a whole lots. She and grandma was both good on giving advice. Seem like they could
see how things would turn out every time.

"I married a man with a roving nature. We come here. He left me, come back for me to look after
before he died. I married again. I left him. He told me how I could do five washings a week
and take care of us both. I didn't aim to do it. I mighter got some washings but I didn't aim
to keep him.

"I get a little commodities along to help out. I'm picking berries now twenty-five cents a
gallon for the first picking. Fifteen and twenty cents is the regular prices.

"I haven't got children and I don't know what they ought to do. I reckon they do the best they can.

"Times is hard on me. It takes me all the time to make a living."

Pine Bluff District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Martin & Barker Subject: Negro Customs

This information given by: Sarah Smiley (Colored) Place of Residence: Humphrey, Arkansas Age:
76 [TR: Information moved from bottom of first page.]

I was born the 10th of May, 1860. My home was in Charleston, S.C. I was not a slave, but my
parents were.

My mother was a seamstress and my father, Edward Barnewill, was butler for their white folks.

I looks the door at sundown, and me and God are all by ourselves, and I am not afraid.

I came to Sherrill when I was a schoolgirl, and married when I was 14. Lived here after I was
married. Taught school before I was married.

Had seven children by my first husband. My three husbands were Ike Williams, Eli Treadvan,
and Calvin Smiley.

When asked about her books standing on her shelves--namely Golden Gems, arithmetic, and the
Bible, also a blue back speller--said she just loved her books.

Young folks of today don't love like they did in the olden days. Now it is hot love, minute
love, free love.

When my first child was born, I begged the midwife not to cut me open to get the baby out.
The midwife told me the same place it went in the same place it will come out.

When my breasts began to grow (adolescence) I didn't want those bumps on me, and tied them
down with wide rags.

Cures--I uses gasoline and cedar, soak it and rub on affected places for rheumatism.

I believe that you must not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.

Heaven is a place of rest. If we are faithful to God, you can ride death home.

Hell is below--also here on earth.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Andrew Smith
                    R.F.D., Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 73

"I was born after the surrender at Oxford, Mississippi. We belong to Master Jim Smith. Mother
cooked and father worked in the field. He was on a average being good. They didn't trouble
my mother as I recollect hearing 'em say but they whooped them in the field. Pattyrollers chased
papa in sometimes. I heard him talk about it but I couldn't tell what he said now. Mama had
two before freedom, then she married and had three children. He died. She married the second
time and had two more children. That made seben in all.

"She said her first marriage was pronounced (announced). My mother said their master refugeed
them to Texas till the year of the surrender. They didn't know nothing 'bout freedom till a
while after they got back from Texas. They stayed on that year and longer too not knowing 'bout
freedom. My rickerliction is short.

"Frank Houston was a neighbor of our'n. He lived on my folks' joining plantation close to Houston,
Mississippi during slavery. During or before the War come on he put his money in a barrel--hogshead.
They said it was gold and silver. I don't know. It might some been paper. He rolled the barrel
down to the river. It was the Tallahassee (?) River eighteen miles northeast of Oxford, Mississippi.
He hid his barrel of money in the river. They hunted and hunted it and never could find it.
It might sunk in the mud and quick sand. Somebody might er hauled it out and stole it. The
whole neighborhood hope him hunt it. They never did find it. I seen the old man and Jim Smith
heaps of times.

"I voted in Mississippi. I couldn't read. They had a big fight in the country at Midway Church
where we all voted. It was out a ways from Oxford, Mississippi. I never voted in Arkansas.
I pay poll tax. Never 'lowed to vote.

"I never went to school a day in my life.

"I come to Forrest City fifty-four years ago. Married here. Never had a child. Now my wife
dead. I farmed all my life. I bought a farm but they never let me have it. I never got it all
paid out. They took it.

"I get Welfare help. I does some work. I'm nearly past hard work now." (Lives with Negroes
by name of Green about 1 mile from Smith's Crossing)

2. Date and time of interview--November 1, 1938, Tuesday morning, 9:30-10:30

3. Place of interview--at the home of some Negroes named Green.

4. Name and address of person, if any, who put you in touch with informant--Had previously
talked with Caroline.

5. Name and address of person, if any, accompanying you--Mrs. Ethel Depriest, 516 East Miles
Street, El Dorado.

6. Description of room, house, surroundings, etc.--a typical Negro farm house.

Personal History of Informant

1. Ancestry--

2. Place and date of birth--Camden, Arkansas? No date.

3. Family--one child.

4. Places lived in, with dates--Camden and El Dorado. Other points gained in interview--This
slave old enough to remember Civil War.

Text of Interview (Unedited)

"I first remembers living on the plantation of Mr. Jake Dumas near El Dorado Landing. You know
it's Calion now. We lived up towards Camden and it was there that my ma and pa was married
and buried. I was a big girl durin' the war. My job was to card and spin. And I use to carry
the children to school. When I would get to the school I would put the children off, git straddle
and ride that horse home. When I would get there old mos would say Ca'line did you run him?
I'd say naw sir. Then he'd say, 'Oh, Carryline put the horse in the lot and come out here.
I'd say, 'Master I didn't run that horse' but didn't do no good. He sure would whip me. I'd
get down and roll. I would stomp and he would do the same. I wondered how he could tell I'd
run that horse. But course he could cause that horse had the thumps (heart beating rapidly).

"I remember seeing the soldiers come through during the war. They come by droves stealing horses,
setting the cotton on fire and taking sumpin to eat, too.

"Yes, I does still member the songs we sung durin' the war but I've got the asthmy and ain't
got much wind fur singin'.

  "You want to know the reason,
  You want to know the reason,
  You want to know the reason, I'll tell you why,
  We'll whip them Yankees, whole hog or die."

  "Hooray, Hooray, Hooray for the Southern Girl.
  Hooray for the homespun dress the Southern ladies wear.
  My homespun dress is plain I know,
  I glory in its name;
  Hooray for the homespun dress the Southern ladies wear."

"I've got the asthmy honey and jest caint sing no more.

"You asked 'bout my husband and chillun. I been married fo' times. My first man's name was
Dick Hagler, the next Frank Bibby, the next Henry Harris and the last one was Tom Smith. That's
where I get my name Ca'line Smith. I never did have but one daughter but she had sixteen chillun.
She's daid now and mah granchillun is scattered.

"I got the asthmy an jes don' feel like talkin' no more. Long time ago when I was sick master
always had a doctor to me now I have to hire one. And they always fed me good and clothed me
but after I was free I would go round and work around to git a little sumpin to eat."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy Person interviewed: Caroline Smith, Russellville, Arkansas Age: 83

"Ca'line Smith's my name and dey calls me 'Aunt Ca'line.' I was born about de year 1855 as
I was about dis high (measuring) when de War broke out. I remembers de boys marching away in
their grey uniforms just as plain. We chillen would watch dem as dey went away; we could see
em as we peeped through de winders and de cracks in de walls.

"I was born in Mississippi close to Columbus on de plantation of my master, John Duncan. And
he was a purty strict old master, sure, but sometimes he was kind to us. When we was set free
he let us all go wherever we wanted to, but didn't pay us nothin'.

"All de slaves that I remembers stayed on around in different parts of Mississippi after de
War and engaged in farmin', and workin' on roads and streets, and other public work. About
forty years ago I come to Pope County, Arkansas wid my parents and has lived here ever' since.

"I don't remember nothin' about de Klu Klux Klan or if our folks was ever bothered wid em.

"Yes suh, I keeps workin' every day and likes to keep up my sewin'. Plenty of it to do all
de time--jest like I'm doin' today. My health is purty good ceptin' I has a sort of misery
in my side.

"I draws a pension of $7.50 a month, but I dunno who sends it.

"I belongs to de Adventist Church, and I sure believes in always tellin' de trufe and nofin'
but de trufe; we better tell de trufe here, for some of dese days we all gwine where nofin'
but de trufe will be accepted.

"No suh, I ain't never took any interest in politics and ain't never voted.

"Dese young'uns today is simply too much for me; I can't understand em, and I dunno which way
dey headed. Some few of em seems to have sound common sense, but--well, I just refuse to talk
about em."

Interviewer: Pernella Anderson
Person Interviewed: Edmond Smith
                    D Avenue
                    El Dorado, Ark.
Age: ?

"I was born in Arcadia, Louisiana a long, long time ago. Now my work when I was a child was
farmin'. I did not stay a child long, I been grown ever since I was fourteen. My father lived
till I was eleven, and I thought since I was the oldest boy I could take his place of bossin',
but my mother would take me down a button hole lower whenever I got too high.

"Before my papa died we had a good livin'. We lived with his mistress's daughter, and we thought
we lived in heaven. My papa made all of the shoes and raised all of the cattle from which he
got the hide. We raised all the wool to make our wool clothes and made all of the clothes we
wore. And food--we did not know what it was to go to a store to buy. Didn't have to do that.
You see, people now living out of paper sacks. Every time they get ready to cook it's go to
the store. We old timers lived out of our smokehouse.

"In there we had dried beef, cured pork, sugar from syrup, sweet potatoes, onions, Irish potatoes,
plenty of dried fruit and canned fruit, peanuts, hickory nuts, walnuts; eggs in the henhouse
and chickens on the yard, cows in the pen and milk and butter in the house.

"My mama even made our plow lines. She had a spinning wheel and you know how to spin?--you
can make ropes for plow lines too. Just twist the cotton and have it about six inches long
and put it in the loom and let it go around and around. You keep puttin' the twisted cotton
in the loom and step on the peddle and no sooner than done, that was worked in a rope. Now,
if you don't know what I am talking about it is useless for me to tell you.

"After papa died that left no one to work but mama and I tell you time brought about a change.
A house full of little children--we lived from hand to mouth. Not enough corn to feed one mule.
No syrup, no hogs, no cows. Oh! we had a hard time. I remember hearing my mama many a night
ask God to help her through the struggle with her children. The more my mama prayed the harder
times got with her. Wasn't no churches around so she had to sing and pray at home. The first
Sunday School I remember going to was in 1892. I went to school and got as high as fifth grade,
then I ran away from my mama.

"Just becaise I let old bad man overpower me I got grown and mannish. Couldn't nobody tell
me a thing. I would steal, I would fight, I would lie. I remember in 1896 I went to church--that
was about the fourth time I had been to church. The preacher began preachin' and I went outdoors
and cut the harness off of his mule and broke one of his buggy wheels. I went down in the woods
and cut a cow just for meanness. I stole a gun, and I would shoot anytime and anywhere, and
nobody bothered me because they was scared to. I stole chickens, turkeys and anything.

"I got in trouble more times than a little, so the last time I got in trouble some white people
got me out and I worked for them to pay my fine out. While working for them I made shoes. They
taught me to do carpenter work. They taught me to paint; to paper; to cook; work in the field
and do most anything. I came to my senses while working with those people and they made a man
out of me. When I left there I was a first class carpenter. Those white people was the cause
of me getting independent. I didn't get no book sense, but if you get with some good white
people, that will be worth more than an education."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Emma Hulett Smith; Hazen, Arkansas Age: 66

"I was the first colored baby born here or very near here. There was only three houses in this
town (Hazen). I think they muster been log houses.

"My folks belong to Dr. Hazen. He brought families from Tennessee. When the war broke out he
took em to Texas. Then he brought em back here. When they was freed I heard my mother say they
worked on for him and his boys (Alex and Jim Hazen) and they paid them. He was good to them.
They had er plenty always. After the war they lived in good log houses and he give em land
and lumber for the church. Same church we got cept a storm tore it down and this one built
in place of it. He let em have a school. Same place it stands now. My mother (Mandy Hulett)
got a Union pension till she died. She cooked at the first hotel in Hazen for John Lane. She
washed and ironed till she died. We girls helped and we wash and iron all we can get now. None
of us not on relief (Fannie nor Emma). I can't wash no more. My hands and arms swell up with
rheumatism. I still iron all I can get.

"The present conditions seems awful unsettled; wages low, prices high and work scarce at times.
Men can get work in the hay two months and bout two months work in the rice or pickin cotton,
either one. Then the work has played clean out till hay time next year.

"How do they live? Some of their wifes cooks for white people and they eat all they make up
soon as they get paid. Only way they live."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Ervin E. Smith
                    811 Ringo Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 84

"I have been in this state for forty-nine years. I will be here fifty years on the fifteenth
of December.

"I was born in Ebenezer Township, York County, South Carolina, on the twenty-ninth day of April,
in 1854. That makes me eighty-four years old on Friday. I was born on Good Friday--on Good
Friday at six o'clock in the morning.

"I am telling you what I was instructed all of my life. My father, W.D. Smith, and my mother,
Haria, told me these things. My mother carried a nickname, Salina, all her life, but her real
name was Haria.

"I'll tell you how they happened to keep such good records. We had a little advantage over
the other people of that day. My father never got any school education, but his brothers instructed
him--his half-brothers. They were white. They was good, too. I mean them brothers thought just
as much of me as they did of anybody else. So my father got pretty good training. He got it
from his brothers and that's how he learned to keep such good records.

Relatives

"I am told my mother cooked for one family for forty-two years. Her maiden name was Haria Harris.
She was three-fourths white. She come from the Indian tribe--old Catawba Indians. Her own daddy
was a white man, but her Grand daddy on her mother's side was an Indian.

"I am told that the old fellow bought my mother when she was fifteen years old. Finally he
got hold of both my father and my mother. Both of them put together didn't have half colored
blood. He must have loved them a lot to work so hard to get them together. My father was half
white, but his mother was a mulatto woman (Interpreter's comment--This should make him a quadroon)[TR:
sentence lined out.]; and my mother's great-grandmother was a colored woman.

"I never knew much about race troubles. The best friend I ever had was an old white grandmother.
I was carefully shielded from all unpleasant things.

Fort Sumter

"I was looking at the men when they were getting ready to get on the train to go to Fort Sumter.
Mr. John White, Captain John White, I knew him personally. He was one of our neighbors. That
was in Ebenezer that he was one of our neighbors. The soldiers going to capture Fort Sumter
caught the Columbia and Augusta train going to Charleston. Looked like to me there was ten
thousand of them. John White was the captain and Beauregard [HW: here Gustave Toutant Beauregard.]
was the general.

"I didn't see the fighting because it was too far away. It was about eighty miles from us where
they got on the train to Fort Sumter. They got on the train at Rock Hill. Rock Hill was a city--small
city--real close to Ebenezer. We lived near Rock Hill. They was adjoining towns.

Patrollers and Good Masters

"The only patrollers I knew of was some that come on the place once and got hurt. My mother
had a brother Hobb and the patroller tried to whip him. Hobb knocked all his front teeth out
with a stick. Ches[TR:?] Wood was the name of the patroller. It was like it is now. There were
certain white people who didn't allow any of their niggers to be whipped. I never seen a patroller
on my place. I have heard of them in other places, but the only one to come on our place was
the one Uncle Hobb beat up. He had to take it, because you couldn't put anything over on Harris'
plantation. My people was rich people. They didn't allow anybody to come on their places and
interfere with then--their niggers.

"I have heard my mother say that no white man ever struck her in her life. I have had uncles
that were struck. Two of them, and both of them killed the men that struck them. Uncle Saul
killed Edmund Smith and Uncle George killed Ed McGehee. Uncle George's full white sister (his
half-sister) sent him away and saved him. They electrocuted Uncle Saul--they executed him.

"White men struck them and they wouldn't take it. They didn't do nothin' at all to Hobb Baron.
He got to his boss and the white folks was 'fraid to come there after him. All of this was
in slavery. My people ain't never had no trouble with anybody since freedom; white people would
get mad with my uncles and try to do something to them, and they wouldn't take it.

"There were three races in the neighborhood where I was raised--niggers, Indians, and white
folks. They never sent the Indians out until 1876 when I was a grown man. They sent them over
there to Utah when it became a state. I had a lot of Indian friends that went along at that time.

"Bad blood was mixed up there and you couldn't do nothing to anybody and get away with it.

First Pair of Shoes

"I can remember the first pair of shoes my uncle gave me. They had a little brass on the top
of the toes to keep you from kicking them out and skinning them up. That was way back yonder
in the fifties.

Bible and Church in Slave Time

"White people taught their niggers what Bible they wanted them to know.

"'Who made you?'

"'God.'

"'Why did He make you?'

"'For his own glory.'

"'Why ought you to love God?'

"'Because He made me and takes care of me.'

"That was all the Bible they wanted you to learn. That, and just a few more things. I could
state them all.

Education

"In 1866, everybody that was less than sixteen years old in South Carolina had to go to school.
The little fellows that had been slaves had to go to school, and they got some education. You
will hardly find an old man from South Carolina around my age who can't read and write. There
was one hundred sixty pupils in my school. All boys. I never went to a mixed school--a school
where they had boys and girls both.

"The first school I attended was in Ebenezer. I went to high school in Macklenburg. Miss Sallie
Good and Miss Mattie Train, Elias Hill, and David G. Wallace--all of these were my teachers.
They were all white except Elias Hill. He was the only colored teacher in that section of the
country--at that time.

"When I finished high school, I went to Biddle University. Biddle was a boys' school. It was
in Charlotte, North Carolina. They had a girls' school in Concord, North Carolina. Biddle is
still running, but it has another name. Dr. Mattoon was president of Biddle then and Dr. Darling
was president of the girls' school.

Murders

"The first murder ever I saw was Violet Harris killed Warren Fewell. It come over a family
quarrel some way. They fell out over something. She was not related to him. It was done right
at the fence at her gate. She cut him with a butcher knife--stuck him just once right through
the heart. That is the first murder I ever saw. They were both colored. The War was just winding
up. It happened in Ebenezer. I don't recall that they punished her.

"I have seen a white man killed by a white man, and I have seen a colored man killed by a colored
man; but I have never seen a colored man killed by a white man or a white man killed by a colored
man. I have seen them after they were killed, but I never seen the killing. I have seen both
races killing their own, but I have never seen them killing across the races.

"About fifty years ago, I saw a young man come in the church and kill another one. Just come
in and shot him. That is been fifty years ago--back in 1881 in Ebenezer.

"Rock Hill, South Carolina, from 1876 to a while later, bore the name 'Bloody Town.' They killed
a man there every Saturday night in the year--fifty-two times a year they killed a man. They
had to send for the Federal troops to bring them down. They didn't just kill colored people.
They killed anybody--about anything."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Frances Smith
                    2224 Havis Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 77

"I specs I was born in slavery times. I remember seein' the Yankees. That was in Mississippi.
I'm seventy-seven--that's my age.

"Spencer Bailey was old master. Just remember the name was 'bout the biggest thing I knowed
about. I seen him all right but I didn't know much about him 'cept his name.

"Mother belonged to him, yes'm.

"I tell you the truf, what little I used to remember I done forgot it. I just didn't try to
keep up with it. I wasn't concerned and just didn't try to keep up with it.

"I know our folks stayed there a while. First place we went to after the War was Tennessee.

"I don't know how long I been here--I been here a time though.

"Yes'm, I went to school several terms.

"I was married in Arkansas. My folks heard about Arkansas bein' such a rich country, so they
come to Arkansas.

"I farmed a long time and then I done housework.

"Deal a times I don't know what to think of this younger generation. I sits down sometimes
and tries to study 'em out, but I fails.

"Well, what the old folks goin' to get out of this?"

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Henrietta Evelina Smith
                    1714 Pine Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age:

"I was born in Louisiana in East Felicie Parish near Baton Rouge on the twenty-eighth day of
December. My mother's name was Delia White. Her maiden name was Delia Early. My father's name
was Henry White. My mother's father was named Amos Early. My mother's mother's name was Julia.
My father's father was named Tom White and his mother was named Susan.

"My father and mother both belonged to the Eason's. I don't know how they spelled it. Eason's
daughter married Munday and my uncle bought this white man's place years after freedom. That
is not far from Clinton--about four or five miles. It is three miles from Ethel, Louisiana.

"Amos, my grandfather, was the wagoneer on the old place. Father, he used to drive the wagon
too. He'd haul cotton to Baton Rouge and things like that. He would run off and stay five or
six months. I have heard them talk about how he used to come back and bring hogs and one thing
and another that he had found out in the woods. He would run off because the overseer would
whip him. But he was such a good working man that once or twice, the boss man turned off his
overseer on account of him. There wasn't nothing against his work. He just wouldn't take a
blow. Most of the times after he had been out a while the boss man would tell the hands to
tell Amos that if he would come on home they wouldn't whip him for running off.

"My grandmother's mother on my father's side was named Melissa. I think that was her name.
My father's mother was named Susan like I told you.

She was part Indian--better work hand never was. But she wouldn't be conquered neither. When
they got ready to whip her, it would be half a day before they could take her. When they did
get her, they would whip her so they would have to raise her in a sheet. The last time they
whipped her, it took her nearly a year to get over it. So the white man just turned her loose
and told her she was free. She went on off and we never did know what became of her.

"The Easons were farmers and they had a large plantation. I don't know just how many slaves
they owned.

"My father and mother were fed like pigs. They had an old woman that did the cooking. She was
broke down from work. They would give the slaves greens and the children pot-liquor. My parents
were field hands. My mother was too young to carry a row when she was freed, but she worked
on an older person's row. They worked from can till can't. You know what I mean, from the time
they could see till the time they couldn't. Reb time was something like the penitentiary now.
It never got too cold nor too hot to work. And there wasn't any pay. My parents never were
given any chance to earn any money. I heard that my grandpa used to make a little something.
He was a wagoneer you know. He would carry a little extra on his load and sell it. His old
master never did find it out. People knew he had stole it, but they would buy it just the same.

"The old boss man came down in the quarters and told them they were free when freedom came.
Right after freedom they stayed there on the old place for a year or more. My mother wasn't
grown and she and my father married after that. Afterwards they had kind of a fight to get
away from the old man. He was carrying them the same way he was going before the War and they
had a row (quarrel), and left him. I don't know just what terms they worked on. I don't think
they did themselves. They took just what they could get and didn't know just how they was paid.

"If a man made a good crop, they would run him away and make him leave his crops behind.

"My folks continued to farm all their lives. They had trouble with the night riders. They had
to vote like they were told. If you voted the wrong way they would get behind you and run you
off. There were some folks who would take pay for voting and then vote different, and when
the night riders found it out, there would be trouble. I don't believe in taking money for
voting, and I don't believe in lying.

"My mother and father didn't get any schooling. That was allowed after slavery, but it wasn't
allowed in slavery time. They learned a little from other people. They would slip and learn
to read.

"My great-grandmother was considered pretty when she was young. She had glossy black hair and
was a little short. She was brownskin and had big legs. Her master would take her out behind
the field and do what he wanted. When she got free, she gave both of her children away. She
had two children by him--a boy named Eli and a girl named Anna. She didn't want them 'round
her because they reminded her of him."

Interviewer's Comment

The subject did not wish to state her age. It is probably around sixty-five. Her mother was
married shortly after freedom. And eight years is probably a liberal allowance for the distance
of her birth from emancipation.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person Interviewed: Henry Smith
                    702 Virginia, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 79
Occupation: Odd jobs

"Yes mam, I was here in slavery times. I was born in Tennessee on a plantation near Jackson.
I was eight years old when peace was declared. All I member is when they beat the folks pit
near to death.

"My old master was Tom Smith. Mean? Cose he was mean. Old mistress was sorta good to us but
old master was the devil. Used to make the men hold the women while they whipped em. Make em
wear old brogan shoes with buckles across the instep. Had the men and women out fore day plowin'.
I member they had my mother out many a day so dark they had to feel where the traces was to
hitch up the mules.

"My mother worked in the field and I stayed in front and helped her up when she got behind.

"I member when the Yankees had thousands and thousands of bales of cotton in the streets right
here in Pine Bluff and take a knife and cut it open and put a match to it, and burn peoples
houses and the gin houses and everything. Take the hosses and mules and run em off.

"Old master and mistress carried us to Texas till peace was declared. I member one morning
the mail come and old master had a long paper and he called all us colored folks up and told
us we was free. He told us we could go or stay. They all wanted to stay so he brought em all
back here to Arkansas. He give each one three acres of ground and all they could make on it.
That's the nicest thing he ever done, but he didn't do that but one year. After that the land
fell back to him. Then they worked on the halves.

"When the colored folks went to buy stock and rent land from the whites, it cost five and six
dollars a acre. They sho could make some money that way, too.

"I was big enough to do right smart behind a plow. I could do a heap. We got along pretty well.

"I got married when I was bout eighteen and made a home for myself. Me and my wife had twenty-two
children. White folks helped us a lot. My wife's dead and all my children dead 'cept four.

"I been here in Pine Bluff twenty-two years. I been here a good while--that ain't no joke.
Used to make three dollars a day mowin' grass. Bought this place with the money. Can't make
that now. They won't give you nothin' for your work.

"Oh yes'm, I voted and wouldn't know what I was votin' till 'twas too late.

"Never went to school much. Learned to read a little bit. They kep' me in the field. Yes ma'm,
I've worked but I've never had a doctor to me in my life.

"Ain't much to this younger generation. The old race can get along a lot better with the white
folks than the young race can.

"I'm the head deacon of the Morning Star Church. Read the Bible right smart. I tell you one
thing--I like all of it."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: J.L. Smith
                    1215 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born in 1862 in the month of September on the fifteenth. I was born at a place they
call Indian Bay on White River down here in Arkansas. My mother was named Emmaline Smith and
she was born in Tennessee. I don't know really now what county or what part of the state. My
father's name was John Smith. He was born in North Carolina. I don't know nothing about what
my grandfather's name and grandmother's names were. I never saw them. None of my folks are
old aged as I am. My father was sixty years old when he died and my mother was only younger
than that.

Experience of Father

"I heard my father say that he helped get out juniper timber in North Carolina. The white man
me and my sister worked with after my father died was the man my father worked with in the
juniper swamp. His name was Alfred Perry White. As long as he lived, we could do work for him.
We didn't live on his place but we worked for him by the day. He is dead now--died way back
yonder in the seventies. There was the Brooks and Baxter trouble in 1874, and my father died
in seventy-five. White lived a little while longer.

"My father was married twice before he married my mother. He had two sets of children. I don't
know how many of them there were. He had four children by my mother. He had only four children
as far as I can remember.

"I don't know how my father and my mother met up. They lived in the same plantation and in
the same house. They were owned by the same man when freedom came. I don't know how they got
together. I have often wondered about that. One from Tennessee and the other from North Carolina,
but they got together. I guess that they must have been born in different places and brought
together through being bought and sold.

"My mother was a Murrill. My father was a Cartwright. My father's brother Lewis was a man who
didn't take nothing much from anybody, and he 'specially didn't like to take a whipping. When
Lewis' master wanted to whip him, he would call his mother--the master's mother--and have her
whip him, because he figured Uncle Lewis wouldn't hit a woman.

"I have six children altogether. Two of them are dead. There are three girls and one boy living.
The oldest is fifty-seven; the next, fifty; and the youngest, forty-eight. The youngest is
in the hospital for nervous and mental diseases. She has been there ever since 1927. The oldest
had an arm and four ribs broken in an auto accident last January on the sixteenth of the month.
She didn't get a penny to pay for her trouble. I remember the man did give her fifteen cents
once. The truck struck her at the alley there and knocked her clean across the street. She
is fifty-seven years old and bones don't knit fast on people that old. She ain't able to do
no work yet. All of my daughters are out of work. I don't know where the boy is. He is somewheres
up North.

Slave Houses

"I have seen some old log houses that they said the slaves used to live in. I was too young
to notice before freedom. I have seen different specimens of houses that they lived in. One
log house had a plank house builded on to the end of it. The log end was the one lived in during
slavery times and the plank end was built since. That gal there of mine was born in the log
end. There were round log houses and sawed log houses. The sawed log houses was built out of
logs that had been squared after the tree had been cut down, and the round log houses was built
out of logs left just like they was when they was trees. There's been quite an improvement
in the houses since I was a kid.

Food

"I have heard my father and mother talking among themselves and their friends, but they never
did tell me nothing about slave times. They never did sit down and talk to me about it. When
they'd sit down and start talkin', it would always be, 'Now you children run on out and play
while we old folks sit here and talk.' But from time to time, I would be sitting on the floor
playing by myself and they would be talking 'mongst themselves and I would hear them say this
or that. But I never heered them say what they et in slave times.

Work

"My father worked in the juniper swamp in North Carolina, like I told you. I think I heard
my mother say she cooked. Most I ever heard them say was when they would get with some one
else and each would talk about his master.

Cruelties

"I heard my mother say that her mistress used to take a fork and stick it in her head--jog
it up and down against her head. I don't know how hard she punched her. My mother was very
gray--all her hair was gray and she wasn't old enough for that. I reckon that was why.

How Freedom Came

"I don't remember how freedom came. They were refugeed--I call it that--my father and mother
were. My sister was born in Texas, and they were back in Arkansas again when I was born. I
was born and raised right here in Arkansas. They were running from one place to the other to
keep the Yankees from freeing the slaves. I never even heard them say where they were freed.
I don't know whether it was here or in Texas.

Right After the War

"I have no knowledge of what they did right after the War. The first thing I remember was that
they were picking cotton in Pine Bluff or near there. It was a smoky log house I had to stay
in while they were out in the field and the smoke used to hurt my eyes awful.

Ku Klux and Patrollers

"I don't remember nothing about the Ku Klux. I heard old folks say they used to have passes
to keep the pateroles from bothering them. I remember that they said the pateroles would whip
them if they would catch them out without a pass. When I first heard of the Ku Klux Klan, I
thought that it was some kind of beast the folks was talking about. I didn't hear nothing special
they did.

Occupational Experiences

"When I got old enough, I worked a farm--picked cotton, hoed, plowed, pulled corn--all such
things. That is about all I ever did--farming. Farming was always my regular occupation. I
never did anything else--not for no regular thing.

Marriage

"I married in 1879. My father and mother married each other too after freedom. I remember that.
It was when the government was making all those that had been slaves marry. I have been married
just the one time. My wife died in April 1927.

Present Condition

"I am not able to do anything now. I don't even tote a chair across the room, or spade up the
ground for a garden, or hoe up the weeds in it. I am ruptured and the doctor says it is the
funniest rupture he ever seen. He says that there's a rupture and fat hanging down in the rupture.
They have to keep me packed with ice all the time. The least little thing brings it down. I
can't hold myself nor nothing. Have to wear something under my clothes.

"I don't get a pension."

Interviewer's Comment

Smith is sensitive about his first name--doesn't like to give it--and about his condition.
He doesn't like to mention it or to have it referred to.

He has an excellent memory for some things and a rather poor one for some others. He got angry
when his granddaughter supplied data about his wife which he apparently could not recall.

His physical condition is deplorable and his circumstances extremely straitened.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: John H. Smith
                    2602 W. Twelfth Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"I reckon I was here, I member seein' the smoke from the guns look like a cloud.

"I was born in Missouri in 1856. I member way back. Yes'm. I'm old--I'm old.

"I member seein' the soldiers--Yankees--eight or ten in a squad and they asked me did I want
to ride with em? Old mistress say, 'That's my boy!' I member way back when they used to put
the folks upon a block and sell em. I member one night we was in the cabin and the Ku Klux
come up on horses. And I member when they was hollerin' peace was declared.

"Mama told me I was born in 1856. Mama had all our ages in that big Bible.

"We stayed in St. Louis six years then we went to Chrystal City. Missouri and I went to the
glass factory and went to work.

"Did I vote? Me? Yes'm, I voted many a time--Republican. I'm still a Republican--always will
be I reckon. I haven't voted for a long time but I think everybody ought to have the liberty
to vote.

"I like to live in the North better cause the white folks treats you better. They treats me
all right here cause I don't do nothin'.

"I member my white folks was good to me.

"I went to school after the war whar I was born. C.N. Douglas, the son of Napoleon Douglas,
was my teacher. First teacher we had was Miss Mary Strotter. I know she couldn't learn us anything
so they got C.N. Douglas. He brought that paddle with the little holes and he learned us something.
I know my sister was next to me and she couldn't get her spelling and I'd work my mouf so she
could see. C.N. Douglas caught me at it and he whipped me that day. I never worked my mouf again.

"I was the best speller in the school. I won a gold pen and ink stand and George Washington
picture.

"Before the war I member the overseer would say, 'If you don't have that done tonight, I'll
whip you tomorrow.' They had one man was pretty bad and I know they give him a thimble and
a barrel and told him he had to fill up that barrel, but he couldn't do it you know and so
they whipped him.

"Mama used to whip me. She called me the 'Devil's Egg Bag' for a long time. I used to take
a darning needle and punch the eyes out of guineas or chickens just to see em run around. She
broke me of that. I know now she never whip me enough, but she made a man of me. I got a good
name now. Always been a good worker. Done my work good and that's what they want to know. Yes
ma'm, I'm old."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Persons interviewed: Maggie Snow and Charlie Snow
                     R.F.D., Brinkley, Arkansas
Ages: 69 and 75

"My parents' names was Mary and Henderson Kurkendall. They had seven children. Mama died when
I was three years old. Papa was a Yankee soldier.

"They belong to the same white folks, Moster Jake and Peggy Kurkendall. They had a big farm.

"My papa told me that one morning they woke up and looked out over the field. The Yankees had
pitched their camps far as you could see on Moster Jake's farm. They come up to his house.
Moster Jake had a big house and a big family. The Yankees come up there and throwed out all
they had and told the slaves to take it. No, they didn't; they was scared to take it and it
belong to them. They didn't want it all wasted like they was doing. Papa said they rode their
horses up to the house. They took all the soldiers on the place to the camp. They was scared
not to go.

"Papa left mama at the old home place and Moster Jake let them work all they could. Papa stayed
in the war till after the battle at Vicksburg. Then he come home. They stayed awhile at Moster
Jake's and worked. He got his knee hurt and his health ruined. He never was no count after
he got back home. Mama could pick six hundred pounds of cotton a day he said. They worked from
daybreak till pitch dark in them days.

"Little Jake Kurkendall is living now Enoch or Harrison Station, Mississippi. He is older than
I am. He got a family. But he is all the son old Moster Jake had that I know living now.

"Papa said the Yankees made all the slaves fight they could run across. Some kept hid in the
woods. Seem like from way he told bout it they wanted freedom but they didn't want to go to war.

"When we heard bout Arkansas being so rich and a new country, we wanted to come. Some white
and some colored come. We come to Aubrey, Arkansas. We got six living, five dead children.
I been here fourteen years (at Brinkley). I hired out to cook in Mississippi but I wash and
iron and work in the field till I bout wore out. My husband in a terrible condition. He picked
some cotton. He got rheumatism in his legs.

"We own a little home bout a mile from town and a pig. I wish I could get a cow. I ain't got
the money to buy one. Jess can't get one no way. We had a fine garden. Two of us get $10 and
commodities. Times so far this year been good. When it gets cold times may be hard. Times better
this year than last or it been for a long time.

"I didn't know I could vote. Guess my husband done my part of the voting."

"I am seventy-three years old. There was two boys and two girls of us. My aunts and uncles
raised me. My mother died when I was little and fore that my papa went to the army and never
come home. They said he got killed or died--they didn't know. My parents belong to Berry Bruce.
He had a family I heard em say. He lived at Louisville, Mississippi.

"I recollect the Ku Klux. I heard em talk a whole lot about em. One time they rode round our
house and through the hall of our house. Yes ma'am, it scared us so bad it most paralyzed us
all. They went on. We didn't know what they wanted. We never did find out.

"I don't vote. I never voted in my life. I don't recken I ever will. I have been a hard worker
all my life. I farmed. I loaded and unloaded on a steamboat with my family farmin' in the country.
The boat I run on went from Memphis to New Orleans.

"My family farmed at Batesville in the country out from there. For a long time I made staves
with the Sweeds. They was good workers. We would make 1,000, then load the barge and send or
take them to Vicksburg. I got my board and $1 a day.

"The present conditions for the cotton farmer has been better this year than last. When it
gets cold and no work, makes it hard on old men. I got no job in view for the winter.

"I would like to have a cow if I could raise the money to get one. I been tryin' to figure
out how to get us a cow to help out. I can't make it.

"I suffer all the time. I can't sit still, I can't sleep I suffer so wid rheumatism. Nobody
knows how I do suffer. My general health is fine.

"This President has sure been merciful to the poor and aged. Surely he will be greatly rewarded
hereafter."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Robert Solomon, Des Arc, Arkansas Age: 73

My father was African. He was born in Atlanta. My mother was a Cherokee Indian. Her name was
Alice Gamage. I was born in 1864. I don't know where I was born--think it was in the Territory--my
father stole my mother one night. He couldn't understand them and he was afraid of her people.
He went back to Savannah after so long a time and they was in Florida when I first seen any
of her people. When I got up any size I asked my father all about him and my mother marrying.
He said he knowed her 'bout two year 'fore they married. They sorter courted by signs--my mother
learned me her language and it was natural fur me to speak my father's tongue. I talked for
them. She was bout fifteen when she run away. I don't know if a preacher ever did marry em
or not. My father said she was just so pretty he couldn't help lovin' her. He kept makin' signs
and she made signs. I liked my Gramma Gamage. She couldn't understand much. We all went to
the Indian Territory from Florida and Georgia. That's how I come out here.

I don't remember the Ku Klux. I remember hearing ma and gramma talk 'bout the way they tried
to get way from 'em. My father was a farmer till freedom. He farmed around here and at Pine
Bluff. He died at West Point. My mother and step-mother both died at Pine Bluff. They took
my mother to her nation in Oklahoma. She was sick a good while and they took her to wait on
her. Then come and took her after she died. There show is a fambly. My father had twenty-two
in his fambly. My mother had five boys and three girls and me. My stepmother had fourteen more
children. That's some fambly aint it? All my brothers and sisters died when I was little and
they was little. My father's other children jess somewhar down round Pine Bluff. I guess I'd
know em but I aint seed none of them in I don't know how long.

The first work I ever done was sawmilling at Pine Bluff. Then I went down in Louziana, still
sawmilling--I followed dat trade five or six years. Den I got to railroading. I was puttin
down cross ties and layin' steel. I got to be straw boss at dat. I worked at dat fifteen years.
I worked doing that in six different states. That was show fine livin'--we carried our train
right along to live in. I married and went to farming. Then I come to work at this oil mill
here (in Des Arc). The reason I quit. I didn't quit till it went down and moved off. I aint
had nothin' much to do since. I been carryin' water and wood fur Mrs. Norfleet twenty years
and they cooks fur me now. My wife died 'bout a year ago. She been dead a year last January.
She was sick a long time 'fore she died. Well the relief gives me a little to eat, some clothes
and I gets $5.00 a month and I takes it and buys my groceries and I takes it up to Mrs. Norfleet's.
They says come there and eat. They show is good to me 'cept I aint able to carry the wood up
the steps much no more. It hurt me when I worked at the oil mill. I helped them 'bout the house
all the time.

What I do wid my money I made? I educated my girls. Yes maam I show is got children. One my
girls teaches school in St. Louis and de other at Hot Springs. They both went to college at
Pine Bluff. I sent em. No'm dey don't help me. They is by my second wife and my first wife
live with my son, down close to Star City. Dey farm. It's down in Lincoln County. They let
me live in this house. It belongs to him. I went to the bank fo' it closed and got my money
whut I had left. I been livin' on it but it give out.

The conditions are all right. They kin make a right smart but everything is so high it don't
buy much. Some of 'em say they ain't goiner do the hardest work, hot or cold and liftin' for
no dollar a day. Don't nobody work hard as I used to. There's goiner be another war and a lot
of them killed--'cause people ain't doin right. Some don't treat the others right. No'm they
never did. They used to threaten em and take 'em out in cars and beat 'em up, just for disputin'
their word or not paying 'em and de lack. The white man has cheated a heap because we was ignorant
and black. They gamble on the cotton and take might' near all of it for the cheap grub they
let out to make de crop on. Conditions are better but a heap of the young black and white too
deblish lazy to work. Some of dem get killed out goin' on at their meanness.

I heard of uprisings since the war but I never was 'bout none of them.

I votes the Republican ticket. The last I voted was for Hoover. Sure they have tried to change
my way of voting but I ain't goiner change. I ain't heard nothin' 'bout no restrictions 'bout
votin'. If a woman wanter vote it's all right. My girs and my boy votes right along. They are
all Republicans.

The most money I ever has at one time was $600.00. I did save it. I spent it on my girls' clothes
and education. They did go to college at Pine Bluff but they went to the Catholic High School
first down at Pine Bluff. No'm they don't help me. They say it's all dey can do to get along.
They never have told me how much they make.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: James Spikes
                    2101 Bell Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 91

"Good morning. Yes'm I remember the Civil War. I was a soldier. I was between sixteen and seventeen
when I enlisted in the war.

"'Why did you enlist?'

"I didn't know no better. I thought I would be took care of. They told us the war was sposed
to set the darkies free. My old master didn't want me to go--cose not. But they was very good
to me. I regard them just the same as myself.

"I enlisted in the 55th regiment of colored soldiers. Then I went off with the Yankees. I was
with them when they had the battle at Corinth, Mississippi.

"I was with them when the Yankees taken Corinth and whupped. The rebels tried to take it back
and the Yankees whupped 'em again. The regiment I was with whupped 'em away from several places
and kept 'em runnin'.

"When we was in Fort Pickens I 'member they had a poll parrot--some of the officers had trained
it to say 'Corporal of the guard, Jim Spikes, post No. 1." Sometimes I would draw my gun like
I was going to shoot and the poll parrot would say, 'Jim, don't you shoot me!' They got plenty
a sense.

"The war was funny and it wasn't funny. Well, it was funny for the side that won when we had
scrummishes (skirmish). I never was captured but I hoped capture a lot.

"I stayed in the war till I was mustered out in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. I was a good big fellow
then. Oh Lord yes, I knowed most anything.

"After that I went to Memphis and then I come to Arkansas and went to farming with some white
fellows named French. The river overflowed and we lost 'bout all the cotton.

"The government gives me a pension now cause I was a soldier. Yes'm it comes in right nice--it
does that."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Kittie Stanford
                    309 Missouri Street; Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 104

"Yes'm, I used to be a slave. My mother belonged to Mrs. Lindsey. One day when I was ten years
old, my old mistress take me over to her daughter and say 'I brought you a little nigger gal
to rock de cradle.' I'se one hundred and four years old now. Miss Etta done writ it down in
the book for me.

"One time a lady from up North ask me did I ever get whipped. Honey, I ain't goin' tell you
no lie. The overseer whipped us. Old mistress used to send me to her mother to keep the Judge
from whippin' me. Old Judge say 'Nigger need whippin' whether he do anything or not.'

"Some of the hands run away. Old Henry run away and hide in the swamp and say he goin' stay
till he bones turn white. But he come back when he get hongry and then he run away again.

"When the war come some of the slaves steal the Judge's hosses and run away to Pine Bluff and
he didn't never find 'em. The Judge think the Yankees goin' get everything he got so we all
left Arkansas and went to Texas. We in Texas when freedom come. We come back to Arkansas and
I stay with my white folks awhile but I didn't get no pay so I got a job cookin' for a colored
woman.

"I been married fo' times. I left my las' husband. I didn't leave him cause he beat me. I lef'
him cause he want too many.

"No'm I never seen no Ku Klux. I heard 'bout 'em but I never seen none that I knows of. When
I used to get a pass to go to 'nother plantation I always come back fo' dark.

"This younger generation is beyond my onderstanding. They is gettin' weaker and wiser.

"I been ready to die for the last thirty years. 'Mary (her granddaughter with whom she lives),
show the lady my shroud.' I keeps it wropped up in blue cloth. They tells me at the store to
do that to keep it from turning yellow. 'Show her that las' quilt I made.' Yes'm I made this
all by myself. I threads my own needle, too, and cuts out the pieces. I has worked hard all
my life.

"Now the Welfare gives me my check. My granddaughter good to me. I goes to church on the first
and third Sundays.

"Lady, I glad you come to see me and God bless you. Goo' bye!"

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Tom Stanhouse
                    R.F.D.
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 74

"I was born close to Greenville, South Carolina. I lived down close to Spartanburg. My mother
was named Luvenia Stanhouse and Henry Stanhouse. They had nine children. Grandma belong to
Hopkins but married into the Stanhouse family. Grandpa's name was Tom. They set him free. I
guess because he was old. He lived about mong his children.

"When they was set free old man Adam Stanhouse was good to em. He treated em nice but they
never got nothing but their clothes. They moved on another place and started working sharecropper.

"Before freedom old man Adam Stanhouse would give my pa a pass or his pocket knife to show
to go to see my ma. She lived at Dr. Harrison's farm five miles apart. They all knowed Adam
Stanhouse's knife. I don't know how they would know it. He never let his Negroes be whooped
unless he said so. Owners didn't 'low the Ku Klux whoop hands on their place.

"Adam Stanhouse brought my pa from Virginia with him. Some of them men thought might near much
of his slaves as they did their children. Or I heard em say they seem to. My pa married my
ma when she was thirteen years old. They had nine children.

"I heard ma say Dr. Harrison practiced medicine. His wife was named Miss Lizzie. They had two
boys and three girls.

"Ma was a house girl. Pa was a field hand. One time traders come round and ma's owner wanted
to sell her and his wife objected. She wasn't sold that time. I don't know if she was sold or not.

"I don't know no more about that war than I do about the German war (World War). I was a little
boy when it was all over. I left South Carolina in 1888. Ma was a part Red Indian and pa was
a half Black Creek Indian. I had two children before I left South Carolina. I was married back
there. I paid my own way and come to Fargo. I was trying to better my condition. In 1896 I
come to Brinkley. Before that I lived at Dark Corner eight years. In 1920 ma and pa come to
me and died with me. I paid $25.00 for my second class ticket to Fargo--in 1888.

"Since 1864 to 1937 I farmed, sawmilled, threshed, run a grist mill, run a cotton gin and worked
about em. I farmed eight or nine years across the bayou here.

"I own a home. My wife is living. I get 'demodities', no money. I got two girls living. One
girl is in New Jersey and one in Michigan. They make their living.

"I think the world is going on worse than ever I seen it. Folks can't live without money. They
don't try to raise their living no more. I ain't no prophet. The world going to nothing way
I see it."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Isom Starnes, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 78

"I was born in Marshall County, Alabama near Guntersville. Father belong to the Starnes. They
bought him in Alabama. My parents' name was Jane and Burrel Starnes. They had two children
I knew of. When they was set free they left and started renting. I don't remember much that
happened before freedom. I picked up chips and put them in a split basket I just could chin.
I'd fill all the baskets and they would haul them up to put under the iron skillet. Other chaps
was picking up chips too. They used some kinds to smoke the meat. I could tote water on my
head and a bucket in each hand. They was small buckets. We had to come up a path up the hill.
I stumped my toe on the rocks till they would bleed; sometimes it looked like the nail would
come off. My mother was a good cook. I don't know what she was doing in slavery.

"I been farming all my life. Yes, I owned ninety-eight acres in Alabama. I had a home on it.
I lost it. We brought a suit for water damage. We lost it, I reckon. They fixed a dam that
ruined my place. I left and went to the North--to Springfield, Ohio. I started public work
and worked three or four months in a piano factory. I liked farming the best and come back
to it. My boys hope me down hill. I got two boys. My girl left me all I got now. She is dead.
I got a home and twenty-five acres of ground. She made the money washing, ironing and farming.
I 'plied for the old folks' pension but didn't get it and give it up. I made four bales cotton,
one hundred pounds seed cotton. My place is half mile from town. I have to get somebody to
do all the work.

"My father did vote. He voted a Republican ticket. I have voted but I don't vote now. I voted
a few days ago for a little cotton this year. It was the cotton control election. I voted a
Republican ticket. I found out Democrat times is about the best time for us in the South. I
quit voting because I'm too old to keep up with it. If a woman owns anything--land or house--she
ought to be allowed to vote.

"The times is mighty hard. I need a little money now and I can't get it nowhere. It looks like
bad times for me. The young folks don't work hard as I did. I kept study (steady) at farming.
I liked it. My race is the best fitted for farming and that is where we belong. I never been
in jail. I never been arrested in my whole life."

Interviewer's comment

I stopped this clean, feeble, old Negro--humble as could be--on the edge of town. He had a
basket of groceries taking to his old wife. It was a small split basket. His taxes worried
him. He couldn't get a holt on any money, so I told him about the Farmers' Loan. He was so
scared looking I felt he didn't tell me all he knew. He looked tired. I gave it up and jokingly
asked him if he had ever been in jail. He said, "I never been in jail. I never been arrested
in my whole life." I laughed good and thanked him. I told a young woman who had curiously been
trying to catch the conversation from her yard that I feared I frightened the old man till
he couldn't think to tell me all he knew. She said, "Maybe so but he has a reputation of being
good as gold and his word his bond."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ky (Hezekiah) Steel
                    West Fifth Avenue (rear), Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85
Occupation: Yard man

"What is it you want to know? Well, I was born in North Carolina. I know they brought me here
from North Carolina in slavery times. I couldn't keep no count of it, lady, 'cause I didn't
know. I know I was big enough to walk behind the wagon pickin' up corn. I know that. That was
in slavery times.

"Mr. June Ingraham's father brought me here.

"Oh, that's a long time ago. Mr. June and I was boys together. I was born in the Ingraham family.

"They carried me from here to Texas. I stayed there till I was grown and married. Then I come
back to Arkansas I got with Mr. June's son and I been here since.

"Never have gone to school a day. Can't read but I can spell a little.

"I've done most all kinds of work--split rails, cut wood, farm work, and railroad work on the
section.

"Ku Klux come out there where I was in Texas. Didn't bother me--they was just around first
one place, then another.

"I voted once. I guess it was Republican. I don't remember now who I voted for. I didn't take
much interest in politics--only just what I'd hear somebody say.

"Yankees was camped near us in Texas to keep the wild Indians back. That was after the War.
Yes'm, sure was.

"I know the very night old missis told us we was free. Called all us slaves up there together.
Told us we was just as free as she was. I always will remember that.

"I stayed there till we got through the crop. Then I went to Paris, Texas and portered in a
little hotel there. Then I went wagonin'--haulin' stuff.

"They used to whip me in slavery times when they got ready. Need it? well, they said I did.
Hurt my feelin's and hurt my hide too, but they raised me to do whatever they said.

"This younger generation ain't no good--they ain't raised up like I was. Things is a whole
lot different than they used to be. The folks ain't prayin' to God like they used to. Ain't
livin' right.

"I had two brothers killed in time of the War. That's what the old people told me after I come
back from Texas.

"Yes'm, I've had plenty to eat all my life--up until now; I ain't got so much now.

"I keep the rheumatism pretty much all the time but I ain't never been down sick so I couldn't
help myself.

"I'm telling you just what I know and what I don't know I couldn't tell you.

"Mama was owned by Master Barton. She lived on the line of North Carolina and South Carolina.
Her husband was sold away from her and two children. She never seen him no more. Rangments
was made with Master Barton to let Master Liege Alexander have her for a cook. Then she went
to Old Pickens, South Carolina. Liege Alexander had a white wife and by her he had two girls
and a boy. He had a black cook and by her he had two boys and a girl. One of these boys was
my papa and I told you the old man bought my mama from Master Barton for his colored son. My
papa never was sold you see cause he was the old white man's boy. After his white wife died
his two girls married and the boy left Old Pickens, and they told his colored wife and her
two boys and girl if they would stay and take care of him as long as he lived they could have
the property. My papa went off five or six miles and built him a log house.

"The old man--Master Liege Alexander--was blind when his wife died and he had to be tended
to like a child. He would knock his stick on the wall and some of the small children would
lead him about where he wanted to go. His white children didn't like the way he had lived so
they didn't want to be bothered with him.

"My parents' names was Cheney Barton and Jim Alexander. Papa was medium dark and so was his
own brother but their sister was as white as the woman's two girls and boy.

"After the railroads sprung up the town moved to New Pickens.

"Master Liege Alexander had lots of slaves and land. I reckon the white wife's children fell
heir to the farm land.

"My aunt and grandma cooked for him till he died. They kept him clean and took care of him
like as if his white wife was living. The colored wife and her girl waited on the white wife
and her children like queens. That is what papa said.

"Durin' slavery there was stockmen. They was weighed and tested. A man would rent the stockman
and put him in a room with some young women he wanted to raise children from. Next morning
when they come to let him out the man ask him what he done and he was so glad to get out. Them
women nearly kill him. If he said nothin' they wouldn't have to pay for him. Them women nearly
kill him. Some of the slave owners rented these stockmen. They didn't let them work in the
field and they kept them fed up good.

"Fore the Civil War broke out mama said Master Barton hid a half bushel solid gold and silver
coins over the mountains. He had it close to the spring awhile. Mama had to go by it to tote
water to the house. She said she never bothered it. He said he could trust her and she wouldn't
tell a lie. He took another sack of money over the mountains and the silverware. His wife died
during the war. A lot of people died from hearing of the war--heart failure. I don't know what
become of his money. He lost it. He may forgot where he hid it. It was after his wife died
that he sold mama to Jim Alexander's papa.

"The Yankees rode three years over the country in squads and colored folks didn't know they
was free. I have seen them in their old uniforms riding around when I was a child. White folks
started talking about freedom fore the darkies and turning them loose with the clothes they
had on and what they could tote away. No land, no home, no place; they roamed around.

"When it was freedom the thing papa done was go to a place and start out share croppin'. Folks
had no horses or mules. They had to plough new ground with oxen. I ploughed when I was a girl,
ploughed oxen. If you had horses or mules and the Yankees come along three or four years after
the war, they would swap horses, ride a piece, and if they had a chance swap horses again.
Stealing went on during and long after the war.

"The Ku Klux was awful in South Carolina. The colored folks had no church to go to. They gather
around at folks' houses to have preaching and prayers. One night we was having it at our house,
only I was the oldest and was in another room sound asleep on the bed. There was a crowd at
our house. The Ku Klux come, pulled off his robe and door face, hung it up on a nail in the
room, and said, 'Where's that Jim Jesus?' He pulled him out the room. The crowd run off. Mama
took the three little children but forgot me and run off too. They beat papa till they thought
he was dead and throwed him in a fence corner. He was beat nearly to death, just cut all to
pieces. He crawled to my bed and woke me up and back to the steps. I thought he was dead--bled
to death--on the steps. Mama come back to leave and found he was alive. She doctored him up
and he lived thirty years after that. We left that morning.

"The old white woman that owned the place was rich--big rich. She been complaining about the
noise--singing and preaching. She called him Praying Jim Jesus till he got to be called that
around. He prayed in the field. She said he disturbed her. Mama said one of the Ku Klux she
knowed been raised up there close to Master Barton's but papa said he didn't know one of them
that beat on him.

"Papa never did vote. I don't vote. I think women should vote much as men. They live under
the same law.

"I come to Arkansas about forty-five years ago. Papa brought us to a new country, thought we
could do better. I been farming, cooking, washing. I can't do my own cooking and washing now.
I got rheumatism in my joints, feet, knees, and hands. We don't get no help of no kind.

"My daughter is in Caldwell, New Jersey at work. She went there to get work. She heard about
it and went and haven't come home. I jes' got one child."

Interviewer: Beulah Sherwood Hagg
Person interviewed: Mrs. Charlotte E. Stephens
                    1420 West 15th Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 83

I was born right here in Little Rock. My father was owned by a splendid family--the Ashleys.
The family of Noah Badgett owned my mother and the children. Pardon me, madam, and I shall
explain how that was. In many cases the father of children born in slavery could not be definitely
determined. There was never a question about the mother. From this you will understand that
the children belonged to the master who owned the mother. This was according to law.

My father's family name was Andrews. How did it happen that it was not Ashley?... Oh, my dear,
you have been misinformed about all slaves taking the name of the master who owned them when
peace came.... No, madam. My father was named William Wallace Andrews after his father, who
was an English gentleman. He had come to Missouri in early days and owned slaves.... Yes, my
grandfather was white. The Ashleys brought my father to Arkansas Territory when they came.
They always permitted him to keep his family name. Many other masters did the same.

From the standpoint of understanding between the white and colored races, Little Rock has always
been a good place to live. The better class families did not speak of their retainers as slaves;
they were called servants. Both my parents were educated by their masters. Besides being a
teacher and minister my father was a carpenter and expert cabinet worker.

The first school for Negroes in Little Rock was opened in 1863 and was taught by my father.
I went to school to him. A few months later there came from the north a company of missionary
teachers and opened a school which I attended until 1867. My father was a minister of the Methodist
Episcopal church for colored people on what is now Eighth and Broadway. He also had a chapel
on the property of Mr. Ashley. You probably know that during slavery days the slaves belonged
to and attended the same church as their white folks. They sat in the back, or in a balcony
built for them. My father was considered the founder of Wesley Chapel, which was Methodist
Episcopal. From that time until this day I have been a member of that church. Seventy-three
years, I think it is. Before the break came in the Methodist church, you know, it was all the
same, north and south. After the division on account of slavery the Methodist church in the
south had the word "south" attached. For a long time my father did not realize that. In 1863
he and his church went back into the original Methodist church.

In 1867 the Society of Friends--we called them Quakers--came and erected a large two-story
schoolhouse at Sixth and State streets. It was called Union school. When it was built it was
said by the Quakers that it was to be for the use of colored children forever, but within a
year or two the city bought the property and took charge of the school. As far as I can now
recall, white and colored children never did attend the same school in Little Rock. There have
always been separate schools for the races. I am able to remember the names of the first teachers
in the Quaker school; J.H. Binford was the principal and his sister taught the primary department.
Other teachers were Miss Anna Wiles (or Ware), Miss Louise Coffin, Miss Lizzie Garrison, and
Sarah Henley.

I was about 11 years old when peace came and was living with my mother and the other children
on the Badgett plantation about 7 miles east of Little Rock. Mother did laundry and general
house work. Being a small child, all that was asked of me was to run errands and amuse the
little white children. Madam, if I could tell you the great difference between slave owners
it would help you in understanding conditions of today among the colored people. Both my father
and my mother had peculiar privileges. The Ashley family were exceptional slave owners; they
permitted their servants to hire their time. There was class distinction, perhaps to greater
extent than among the white people. Yes, madam, the slaves who lived in the family with master
and mistress were taught just about the same as their own children. At any rate, they imitated
them in all matters; to speak with a low voice, use good English, the niceties of manners,
good form and courtesy in receiving and attending guests.

I began teaching in Little Rock schools when I was 15 years old and am still teaching. In all,
it is 69 years, and my contract is still good. My first experience as a teacher, (as I told
you I was fifteen) was by substituting for a teacher in that first Missionary school, in 1869.
For some reason, she did not return, and the School Board appointed me in her place. After
one year I was given leave of absence to attend Oberlin College in Ohio. I spent three years
there, but not in succession. When my money would give out I would come home and the School
Board would provide work for me until I could earn enough to carry me through another term.
I finished at Oberlin in 1873. I extended my work through courses at Normal schools and Teacher's
Institutes. I have taken lecture courses in many colleges, notably the University of California
in 1922. I have taught all grades from the first to the twelfth. My principal work, for the
last 35 years, however, has been high school Latin and English and Science.

At present I am serving as librarian at the Senior high school and Junior College. I have twice
served as principal of city schools in Little Rock. First at Capitol Hill. The Charlotte E.
Stephens school at 18th and Maple was named in my honor. I have a book I have kept for 68 years
regarding those first schools, and I'm told it is the only one in existence. I also have the
first monthly report card ever issued in Little Rock. Mr. Hall (Superintendent of Little Rock
City Schools) has asked me to will it to the School Board.

I could recall many interesting events of those early schools for the colored race. Old, old
slaves came, desiring to learn to read and spell. They brought the only books they could find,
many of which proved to be almanacs, paper bound novels discarded by their mistress and ancient
dictionaries, about half of which might be missing.

Yes, madam, I do remember that the emancipated slaves were led to believe they would be given
property and have just what their masters had been accustomed to enjoy. I remember hearing
my mother tell, in later years, that she really had expected to live as her mistress had; having
some one to wait upon her, plenty of money to spend, ride in a carriage with a coachman. But
she always added that the emancipated ones soon found out that freedom meant more work and
harder than they had ever done before.

What did they work at? Pardon me please for so often reminding you of conditions of that time.
Few of the trades workers were white. Brick makers and brick layers, stone masons, lathers,
plasters,--all types of builders were of the freed men. You must remember that slaves were
the only ones who did this work. Their masters had used their labor as their means of income.
Not all slaves were in the cotton fields, as some suppose. The slave owners of towns and villages
had their slaves learn skilled trade occupations and made a great deal of money by their earnings.
The Yankee soldiers and the many Northern people who lived here hired the freed men and paid
them. Quite soon the colored people were buying homes. Many were even hired by their former
masters and paid for the work they formerly did without pay under slavery.

I remember Bill Read and Dave Lowe. They had been coachmen before freedom. By combining their
first savings, they bought a hack, as it was called. It was more of a cab. For all those who
did not have private conveyances, this was the only way of getting about town. It was Little
Rock's first taxi-cab business, I should say. Bill and Dave made a fortune; they had a monopoly
of business for years and eventually had enough cabs to take the entire population to big evening
parties, theater, and all places where crowds would gather.

No, madam, I do not recall that we had any inconvenience from the Ku Klux Klan. If they made
trouble in Little Rock I do not now remember it. I did hear that out in the country they drove
people from their homes. Yes, madam, I do remember, quite distinctly, the times when colored
men were voted into public offices. John C. Corbin was State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Phillips county sent two colored men to the legislature; they were W.H. Gray and H.H. White,
both from Helena. J.E. Bush of this city followed M.W. Gibbs as Police Judge. After reconstruction
when all colored people were eliminated from public life all these people returned to their trade.

I was 22 when I married. My husband was a teacher but knew the carpenter trade. During the
time that Negroes served in public office he served as deputy sheriff and deputy constable.
He was with me for 41 years before his death; we raised a family of six children and gave each
one a college education.

Now, you have asked my opinion of present conditions of the younger generation. It seems to
me they are living in an age of confusion; they seem to be all at sea as to what they should
get for themselves. I do know this. In some respects the modern frankness is an improvement
over the old suppression and repression in the presence of their elders. At the same time,
I think the young people of today lack the proper reverence and respect for age and the experience
it brings as a guide for them. During my long years of teaching I have had opportunity to study
this question. I am still making a study of the many phases of modern life as it affects the
young people. I do not like the trend of amusements of today; I would like for our young people
to become interested in things more worth while; in a higher type of amusement. Conditions
of morality and a lack of regard for conventions is deplorable. Smoking among the girls has
increased the common use of liquor between the sexes.

Did you ask me about the voting restrictions for the colored race in this State? I will tell
you frankly that I think the primary law here is unjust; most unjust. We are citizens in every
other respect; the primary voting privilege should be ours also. This restriction has been
explained as coming down from "the grandfather clause" inserted in early legislation. I cannot
give you the exact wording of the clause but the substance was that no person whose ancestor--grandfather--was
not entitled to vote before 1863 should have the right to the ballot. Of course it is readily
seen that this clause was written purely for the purpose of denying the vote to the colored people.

Perhaps, madam, my talk has been too much along educational lines. You asked me about my life
since freedom came and how I have lived to the present time. I have had the blessed privilege
of being a teacher--of doing the work I love best of all in the world to do. I have written
the story of my life work; it is all ready to be published. I have written "The Story of Negro
Schools in Little Rock" and "Memoirs of Little Rock." Madam, I have written, I suppose, what
would amount to volumes for our church papers and local Negro newspaper. My daughter was, at
one time, editor of the Womens' Page. No, I'm indeed sorry that I have not kept a scrapbook
of such writings. In these latter years my friends scold me for having destroyed all the papers
as fast as they were read. The most of the news in the articles, however, I have used in the
manuscripts of the books I hope to have published.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: William J. Stevens, Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: Up in 70's

"I was born in Pleasant Hill, Alabama. My owners were Haley and Missouri Stevens. They owned
Grandma Mary. Pa was born on the place. Mother was sold from the Combesses to Stevens. Mother's
mother was a Turk Dark Creek Indian. She was a free woman. Her name was Judy. I called her
Grandma Judy. She was old but not gray. She had long black hair as I remember her. Mother was
named Millie. Haley bought her for my pa. My pa's father was Haley Stevens' own son. He was
his coachman. Pa never worked a great deal. Mother never cooked till after emancipation. She
was the house girl and nurse. Life moved along smoothly as much as I ever heard till freedom
come on. The Indians was independent folks. My mother was like that. Haley Stevens took his
family to Texas soon as freedom come on. Mother went with them. They treated her so nicely.
Pa wouldn't follow. He said she thought more of them than she did him. He kept me with him.
He married again. He was a barber at Selma, Alabama. He died a barber at Anniston, Alabama.
While my mother was in Texas she went to see her mother in Hickory, Alabama. She was talking
with a tramp. He had helped my pa in the shop at Selma. Mother took the train and come to pa's
and my stepmother's house. I was fourteen years old then and still wore a long shirt-like dress.
They treated her the nicest kind. She told them she was married to a man named Sims down in
Mississippi. She went back. I don't know where. The barber business was a colored man's trade
in the early days.

"Soon after freedom I made two trips a day and carried my young mistress' books to school.
It was a mile for us to go 'round the road to Pleasant Hill. She married C.C. Williams. I cooked
for her. I cooked her daughter's weddin' supper. She had two girls, Maude and Pearl. I worked
there fourteen years for my clothes and something to eat. Then I went to myself. When I wasn't
cooking I worked in Mr. C.C. Williams' sash and blind factory. They was big rich folks. Mrs.
Williams had a hundred rent houses. She went about in her carriage and collected rent. That
was at Meridian, Mississippi. They learned me more than an education--to work. She learned
me to cook. I cooked all my life. I cooked here at the Rusher Hotel till I got so old I was
not able to do the work.

"I do little odd jobs of work where I can find them. I 'plied for the Old Age Pension but they
give me commodities and that's all. I supports my own self such as it be.

"I find the young generation don't stick to jobs like I had to do. Seems like they want an
education to keep them out of work. Education does some good and some more harm than good.
Oh, times! Times is going fast. Well with some I reckon. Some like me is done left. I mean
I got slower. Time getting faster. I'm done left outen the game. Time wait for no man."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Minnie Johnson Stewart
                    3210 W. Sixteenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: Between 50 and 60?

"My mother's name was Mahala McElroy. Her master's name was Wiley McElroy. She was living in
Howard County, Arkansas near Nashville. She worked in the field, and sewed in the house for
her mistress. One time she said she never would forget about slavery was a time when she was
thirteen years old, and the overseer beat her.

"My mother was a real bright woman with great long black hair. Her master was her father. She
told me that the overseer grabbed her by her hair and wound it 'round his arm and then grabbed
her by the roots of it and jerked her down to the ground and beat her till the blood ran out
of her nose and mouth. She was 'fraid to holler.

"Mother married when she was fourteen. I can't remember the name of her husband. The preacher
was an old man, a faith doctor, who read the ceremony. His name was Lewis Hill.

"I heard mother say they beat my brother-in-law (his name was Dave Denver) till he was bloody
as a hog. Then they washed him down in salt and water. Then they beat him again because he
hollered.

"She told us how the slaves used to try to pray. They were so scared that the overseer would
see them that early in the morning while they were going to their work in the field at daybreak
that they would fall down on one knee and pray. They were so 'fraid that the overseer would
catch them that they would be watching for him with one eye and looking for God with the other.
But the Lord understood.

"My mother was seventy years old when she died. She has been dead thirty years."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Liza Stiggers, Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 70 plus

"I was born in Poplar Grove, Arkansas on Col. Bibbs' place. Mama was sold twice. Once she was
sold in Georgia, once in Alabama, and brought to Tennessee, later to Arkansas. Master Ben Hode
brought her to Arkansas. She had ten children and I'm the only one living. Mama was a dancing
woman. She could dance any figure. They danced in the cabins and out in the yards.

"The Yankees come one day to our house and I crawled under the house. I was scared to death.
They called me out. I was scared not to obey and scared to come on out. I come out. They didn't
hurt me. Mr. Ben Hode hid a small trunk of money away. He got it after the War. The slaves
never did know where it was hid. They said the hair was on the trunk he hid his money in. It
was made out of green hide for that purpose.

"Mama had a slave husband. He was a field hand and all kind of a hand when he was needed. Mama
done the sewing for white and black on the place. She was a maid. She could cook some in case
they needed her. She died first. Papa's foot got hurt some way and it et off. He was so old
they couldn't cure it. He was named Alfred Hode. Mama was Viney Hode. She said they had good
white folks. They lived on Ben Hode's place two or three years after freedom.

"I farmed, cooked, and ironed all my life. I don't know how to do nothing else.

"I live with my daughter. I got a son."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: James Henry Stith
                    2223 W. Nineteenth Street
                    Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 72

"I was born la Sparta in Hancock County, Georgia, in January 26, 1866. My father was named
William Henry Stith, and I was a little tot less than two years old when my mother died. My
father has called her name often but I forget it. I forget the names of my father's father,
too, and of mother's people. That is too far back.

"My father was born in 1818. He was born in Georgia. His master was named W.W. Simpson. He
had a master before Simpson. Simpson bought him from somebody else. I never can remember the
man's name.

Houses

"The first houses I saw in Georgia were frame or brick houses. There weren't any log houses
'round where I was brought up. Georgia wasn't a log house state--leastwise, not the part I
lived in. In another part there were plenty of sawmills. That made lumber common. You could
get longleaf pine eighty to ninety feet long if you wanted it. Some little towns didn't have
no planing mills and you would have to send to Augusta or to Atlanta for the planing work or
else they would make planed lumber by hand. I have worked for four and five weeks at a time
dressing lumber--flooring, ceiling, siding, moldings, and so on.

"My father was still with Simpson when I remembered anything. At that time the house we lived
in was a weatherboarded house just like the ones we live in now. It was a house that had been
built since freedom. Old man Simpson sent for my father and told him to build a house for himself
on the grounds. My father had been with Simpson for so long and had done so much work for him
during slave time that Simpson didn't want to do without him. He supplied all the lumber and
materials for my father. During slave time, Simpson had hired my father out to the other planters
when he had nothing for him to do in the line of building on his own plantation. He had had
him to superintend his grist mill. All that was in slavery time. My father was a highly skilled
laborer. He could do a lot of other things besides building. So when freedom came, he wanted
my father 'round him still. They both fished and hunted. He wanted my father to go fishing
with him and keep him company. My father was a carpenter of the first class, you see, even
in slave time. That was all he done. He was brought up to be a carpenter and did nothing but
that all his time. My daddy was a mighty good mechanic.

Good Master

"My daddy's master was a very good and kind one. My father was not under any overseer. He worked
directly under his master.

"I remember one incident he told me. His master hired a new overseer who hung around for a
bit watching my father. Finally, my father asked him, 'Now, what are you able to do?' The overseer
answered. 'Why, I can see all over and whip all over, and that's as much as any damn man can do.'

"Nobody was allowed to touch my father. He never had no trouble with the pateroles either.
Old man Simpson didn't allow that. He was a free agent. When he wasn't working for Simpson,
he was working for the next big farmer, and then the next one, and then the next one, and old
man Simpson got wages for his work. Sometimes he worked a contract. Old man Simpson couldn't
afford to have him handicapped in his going and coming. He could go whenever he wanted to go,
and come back whenever he got ready, with a pass or without one. His time was valuable.

"The reason why so many slaves suffered as much as they did as a rule was not because of the
masters but because of the poor white trash overseers. I know of several rich white women that
had slaves that wouldn't allow them to be mistreated. They would fire four and five overseers
to keep their slaves from being mistreated.

Mean Masters

"But there were some mean masters. I have heard that right there in Georgia there was one white
planter--I think it was Brantley---who put one of his slaves that had been unruly in a packing
screw and ran it down on him till he mashed him to death. The cotton screw was the thing they
pressed cotton bales in. They run it down by steam now, but then, they used to run it down
with two mules. They tell a lot of things like that on Brantley. Of course, I couldn't personally
know it, but I know he was mighty mean and I know the way he died.

Bushwhacking the Ku Klux

"He belonged to the paterole gang and they went out after the Negroes one night after freedom.
The Negroes bushwhacked them and killed four or five of them. They give it out that the men
that was killed had gone to Texas. Brantley was one of the killed ones. The pateroles was awful
bad at that time. Ku Klux they called them after the War, but they was the same people. I never
heard of the Klan part till this thing come up that they have now. They called them Ku Klux
back when I was a boy. My stepmother carried me over to Brantley's house the night he got killed.
So I know the Texas he went to. That was in '69 or '70. He lived about a mile from us and when
he got killed, she carried me over to see him just like we would have gone to see any other
neighbor.

"The Negroes were naturally afraid of the Ku Klux but they finally got to the place where they
were determined to break it up. They didn't have no ropes, but they would take grapevines and
tie them across the road about breast high when a man would be on horseback. The Ku Klux would
run against these vines and be knocked off their horses into the road and then the bushwhackers
would shoot them. When Ku Klux was killed in this manner, it was never admitted; but it was
said that they had gone to Texas. There was several of them went to Texas one night.

Amusements

"There weren't many amusements in slave times. They had dances with fiddle music. There was
mighty few darkies could get out to go to dances because the pateroles was so bad after them.
I don't know of any other amusements the slaves had. They were playing baseball when I was
born. There were boys much older than I was already playing when I was old enough to notice,
so I think they must have known about it in slave time. They didn't play much in that way because
they didn't have time.

Slaves who Bought Themselves

"I have heard tell of some Negroes that was thrifty and got money enough from side work to
buy themselves. They had to go North then because they couldn't live in the South free. I don't
remember their names just now.

Church

"The slaves had church. Sometimes they had church at one another's house. I don't think they
ever built them a church house. But they could go to the white folks' church if they wanted to.

How Freedom Came

"My daddy's master told my father he was free. He told him that in 1865. He told him that he
was free to do as he pleased, that he could come when he pleased and go when he pleased. 'Course,
he told him he wanted him to stay around him--not to go off.

Soldiers

"I have heard my father speak of soldiers, but they were too busy 'round Atlanta and up that
way to git down where my father was. They don't seem to have bothered his town. They never
made my father do any labor in the army neither. My father was mixed Indian, white, and Negro.

Marriage

"Slaves had to get the consent of their masters to marry. Sometimes masters would want them
to go and would even buy the woman they wanted to keep them contented on the plantation. Sometimes
the masters wouldn't do anything but let them visit. They would marry--what they called marriage
in those days--and the husband would have to git permission from his master to go visit his
wife and git permission from her master to come there. He would go on Saturday night and get
back in time for his work on Monday morning. It was just like raising stock and mating it.

"I have been married fifty-one years. I have been married twice though. My first wife died
in 1900. I have been married to my second wife thirty-four years last April. Those were real
marriages.

Opinions

"I can't say much along these lines. The chance to make a living looks so dark I can't see
much of a future. Things seem to be getting worse. Nearly everybody I talk with, white or colored,
seems to think the same. It is like Senator Glass said. 'If Congress would close up and go
home at once, times would get better.' People don't know what kind of fool law Congress is
going to make and they are not going to spend much money. I don't think Mr. Roosevelt's pump
priming will do much good because you must keep adding to it or it will go away.

"I don't think much of the young people. These nineteenth or twentieth century Negroes is something
fierce I'm telling you.

Vocational Experiences

"I am a carpenter. I wish I wasn't. The depression has made it so that the Negroes get very
little to do. What they have they give to their own people. They don't have much for nobody.
Even if the nigger gets something, he gets very little out of it. But the main trouble is there
isn't anything to do.

"I have been a carpenter for fifty-four years. I have been here fifty-one years. I have never
had no trouble earning a living till now. I can't do it now. The biggest obstacle of the success
of the Negro carpenter is that Negroes don't have the money to build with. They must get the
money from the white man. The white man, on the other hand, if he lets out the money for the
building, has the say-so on who will do it, and he naturally picks out another white man. That
keeps the majority of Negroes out of work as far as carpentry is concerned. It does in a time
like this. When times is better, the white man does not need to be so tight, and he can divide up."

Interviewer: Pernella Anderson, colored Caroline Stout

EX-SLAVES

I was born in Alabama in slavery time. I was sold from my mother after I was five years old
and never did see her again. Was sold to a family by the name of Mr. Games. There were six
of them in family and I was the seventh. They were very nice to me until I was about 10 years
of age. I would attend to the little kids. They were all boys. Had to sleep on straw beds and
been cooking for myself ever since I was 8 years old. When about ten they started putting hard
work on me and had to pick cotton and do the work around the house. Was a slave for about 15
years. After I was freed I moved to Union County and been here ever since.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Felix Street
                    822 Schiller Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 74

I was born in Dickson County, Tennessee, fifty miles north of Nashville, in 1864. It was on
December twenty-eighth. My father told me when he was living how old I was. He told me all
the way along, and I remember it.

"Nannie, Jeff, Hardy, John Mack, and Felix (that's me) are my father's children by his first
wife. Lena, Martha, Esther are his children by his second wife. He had five children by my
mother, and four of them lived to be grown, and one died in infancy. My mother was his first
wife. Her name was Mary Street. Her name before she married--hold a minute, lemme see--seems
like it was Mary--Mary--Street.

"My father and my mother couldn't have lived on the same plantation because she was a May and
he was a Street. I don't know how they met.

"My father's master's name was Jick Street. He owned, to my knowing, my father, Bill Street;
Henry Street, and Ed Street. He might have owned more but I heard my father say he owned those.

"My father said his white people weren't very wealthy. He and his brother had to go and cut
cordwood, both summer and winter. And they was allowed so much work for a task. Their task
was nine cords a week for each man. That was equal to a cord and a half a day for each man
each day. My father would cut his wood like a man ought to cut it. But he said my uncle wouldn't
git at his task. He would drink whiskey all the week. They'd get after him about bein' behind
with his work, but he would say, 'Never mind that; I won't be behind Monday morning.' On Sunday
morning at nine o'clock, he would get up and begin to cut on that wood. And on Monday morning
at nine o'clock, he would have nine cords cut for his white folks and four or five for himself.
It would all be done before nine o'clock Monday morning.

Living Brother

"I recently seen my brother Jeff Davis Street. I haven't seen him before for sixty-one years.
He blew in here from Texas with a man named Professor Smuggers. He lives in Malakoff, Texas.
It's been sixty-one years since he was where I could see him, but he says he saw me fifty-nine
years ago. He came back home and I was 'sleep, he says, and he didn't wake me up. He rambled
around a little and stood and looked at me awhile, he says. He was seventeen years old and
I was twelve.

"My brother had a lot of children. He had four girls with him. He had a boy somewheres. He
is older than I am.

"I heard my father say that in time of war, they were taking up folks that wouldn't join them
and putting them in prison. They picked a white fellow up and had him tied with a rope and
carried him down to a creek and were tying him up by his thumbs. He saw my father coming and
said: 'There's a colored man I know.' My father said he knew him. They let him go when my father
said he knew him and that he didn't harbor bushwhackers. Every time he saw my father after
that he would say, 'Bill, you sure did save my life.'

"My father and mother lived in a log cabin. They had homemade furniture. They had a bunk up
side the wall and a trundle bed. That was the cabin they lived in in slavery time.

Soldiers

"My father said once that when the men were gone, the soldiers came in and asked the women
to cook for them. They wouldn't do it; so the soldiers made them bring them a chunk of fire.
They throwed the fire on the bed and when it got to burning good, the officer wouldn't let
them put it out. But he told them that they could get some of the boys to help them carry out
their things if the boys were willing to do it. It was the officers who wanted the women to
cook for them. It wasn't the slaves they asked; it was the white folks.

Sold His Master

