Though Joyce and Hugh Peters have been suspected of inflicting the murderous blow on Charles,
and though another claimant for this infamous distinction is put forward in the Gentleman's
Magazine for 1767, there seems little doubt that Richard Brandon, the common hangman, assisted
by his man, Ralph Jones, a ragman in Rosemary Lane, in fact perpetrated the deed. Among the
tracts relative to the Civil War presented to the British Museum by George III., in 1762, are
three on this subject, which are fully noticed in a note to Mr. Ellis's Letters on English
History, vol. iii. (second series.) It appears, by the register of Whitechapel Church, that
Richard Brandon was buried there on the 24th of June, 1649; and a marginal note (not in the
hand of the Registrar, but bearing the mark of antiquity), states, "This R. Brandon is supposed
to have cut off the head of Charles I."--One of the tracts, entitled "The Confession of Richard
Brandon, the Hangman, upon his Death-bed, concerning the Beheading of his late Majesty," printed
in 1649, states, "During the time of his sickness, his conscience was much troubled, and exceedingly
perplexed in mind; and on Sunday last, a young man of his acquaintance going to visit him,
fell into discourse, asked him how he did, and whether he was not troubled in conscience for
cutting off the King's head. He replied yes, by reason that (upon the time of his tryall) he
had taken a vow and protestation, wishing God to punish him, body and soul, if ever he appeared
on the scaffold to do the act, or lift up his hand against him. He likewise confessed that
he had 30l. for his pains, all paid him in half-crowns within an hour after the blow was given;
and he had an orange stuck full with cloves, and a handkircher out of the King's pocket, so
soon as he was carried off the scaffold; for which orange he was proffered twenty shillings
by a gentleman in Whitechapel, but refused the same, and afterwards sold it for ten shillings
in Rosemary Lane. About eight o'clock at night he returned home to his wife, living in Rosemary
Lane, and gave her the money, saying, it was the dearest money, he earned in his life, for
it would cost him his life. About three days before he died, he lay speechless, uttering many
a sigh and heavy groan, and so in a desperate state departed from his bed of sorrow. For the
burial whereof great store of wines were sent in by the sheriff of the city of London, and
a great multitude of people stood wayting to see his corpse carried to the churchyard, some
crying out, 'Hang him, rogue!'--'Bury him in the dunghill.'--Others pressing upon him, saying
they would quarter him for executing the King, insomuch that the churchwardens and masters
of the parish were fain to come for the suppressing of them: and with great difficulty he was
at last carried to Whitechapel churchyard, having (as it is said) a branch of rosemary at each
end of the coffin, on the top thereof, with a rope crosse from one end to the other, a merry
conceited cook, living at the sign of the Crown, having a black fan (worth the value of 30s.),
took a resolution to rent the same in pieces: and to every feather tied a piece of packthread,
dyed in black ink, and gave them to divers persons, who, in derision, for a while wore them
in their hats."--See Ellis, ubi supra. The second tract states, that the first victim Brandon
beheaded was the Earl of Stratford.

"When the body was put into a coffin at Whitehall," says Rushworth, "there were many sighs
and weeping eyes at the scene; and divers strove to dip their handkerchiefs in the King's blood."
A general gloom and consternation pervaded London on the day of this atrocious perpetration;
many of the chief inhabitants either shut themselves up in their houses, or absented themselves
from the city. On that day none of the courts of justice sat; and on the next, Whitelocke,
one of the commissioners of the Great Seal, says, "The commissioners met, but did not think
fit to do any business, or seal any writs, because of the King's death." Whitelocke says, "I
went not to the House, but stayed all day at home in my study, and at my prayers, that this
day's work might not so displease God as to bring prejudice to this poor afflicted nation."[8]
Evelyn, in his Diary, writes, "I kept the day of this martyrdom as a fast, and would not be
present at that execrable wickedness, receiving the sad account of it from my brother George
and Mr. Owen, who came to visit me this afternoon, and recounted all the circumstances." Archbishop
Usher came out to witness the scene from his house at Whitehall; but he fainted when the King
was led out on the scaffold.

    [8] There is, I am informed, a tradition in Westminster School,
    that South, the celebrated divine, was the boy whose turn it was
    to read prayers on the day of Charles's death; and that he read
    the prayer for the king as usual. South at that time must have
    been about fourteen years of age. Five years afterwards, when
    the loyal and learned divine was at Christ Church, Oxford, we
    find his name to a copy of Latin verses, addressed to the
    Protector on his conclusion of a treaty with the States of
    Holland. This, no doubt, was a mere college exercise. See Musae
    Oxoniensies, 1654.

The Journals of the Commons show, either that nothing was done, or that it was thought fit
to enter nothing on these eventful days. On the day of the execution there is only the following
remarkable entry:--

"Ordered, That the common post be stayed until to-morrow morning 10 o'clock."

On the 31st, Commissary-general Ireton reports a paper of divers particulars touching the King's
body, his George, his diamond, and two seals. The question being put, that the diamond be sent
to Charles Stuart, son of the late King, commonly called Prince of Wales, it passed with the
negative. The same question was then put, separately, as to the garter, the George, and the
seals: as to each, it passed in the negative.

When the news of the decapitation of the King reached Scotland, that loyal people were moved
with horror and indignation.

Most of the gentry put on mourning; the chair of state in the parliament house, the uppermost
seats in the kirks, and almost all the pulpits, were clothed in black.

The body of the King being embalmed, under the orders of Herbert and bishop Juxon, was removed
to St. James's. The usurpers of the government refused permission to bury it in Henry the VII.'s
Chapel, from a dread of the indignation of the crowds who would assemble on so solemn and interesting
an occasion; but, at last, after some deliberation, the council allowed it to be privately
interred in St. George's Chapel at Windsor, provided the expenses of the funeral should not
exceed five hundred pounds. The last duties of love and respect were (according to Charles's
express desire) paid to their sovereign's corpse by the Duke of Richmond, the Marquess of Hertford,
Lord Southampton, Lord Lindsey, the Bishop of London, Herbert, and Mildmay, who, on producing
a vote of the Commons, were admitted by Whichcote, the Governor of Windsor Castle, to the chapel.
When the body was carried out of St. George's Hall, the sky was serene and clear; but presently
a storm of snow fell so fast, that before it reached the chapel the pall and the mourners were
entirely whitened. When the bishop proposed to read the burial service according to the rites
of the Church of England, this fanatical governor roughly refused, saying, "that that Common
Prayer Book was put down, and he would not suffer it to be used in that garrison where he commanded."
Clarendon thus describes, with graphic simplicity, the sad scene to its close:--

"But when they entered into it (the chapel), which they had been so well acquainted with, they
found it so altered and transformed, all inscriptions and those landmarks pulled down, by which
all men knew every particular place in that church, and such a dismal mutation over the whole
that they knew not where they where; nor was there one old officer that had belonged to it,
or knew where our Princes had used to be interred. At last there was a fellow of the town who
undertook to tell them the place where, he said, 'there was a vault in which King Harry the
Eighth and Queen Jane Seymour were interred.' As near that place as could conveniently be they
caused the grave to be made. There the King's body was laid, without any words, or other ceremonies,
than the tears and sighs of the few beholders. Upon the coffin was a plate of silver fixed,
with these words only, 'King Charles, 1648.' When the coffin was put in, the black velvet pall
that had covered it was thrown over it, and then the earth thrown in; which the governor staid
to see perfectly done, and then took the keys of the church.

"Owing to the privacy of this interment, doubts were at the time current as to its having actually
taken place. It was asserted that the King's body was buried in the sand at Whitehall; and
Aubrey states a report, that the coffin carried to Windsor was filled with rubbish and brick-bats.
These doubts were entirely removed by the opening of the coffin (which was found where Clarendon
described it,) in the presence of George the Fourth, then Prince Regent, in April, 1813--of
which Sir Henry Halford has published an interesting narrative. The skin was dark and discoloured--the
pointed beard perfect--the shape of the face was a long oval--many of the teeth remained--the
hair was thick at the back of the head, and in appearance nearly black--that of the beard was
of a redder brown. The head was severed from the body.

(The volume is embellished with a Portrait of the King, and Outline Prints of the Trial and
Execution.)

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ATLAS OF THE BIBLE.

The Biblical Series of the Family Cabinet Atlas has just been completed with the Sixth Part,
containing the Title-page, Contents, Preface, Plans of Jerusalem, the Temple, and Maps of Palestine,
according to Josephus and the Apocrypha. These occupy seven plates, all exquisitely engraved
on steel. There is, moreover, a letter-press Index of reference to the places in the Maps,
printed on fine plate paper, and occupying 120 pages. Or, this portion rather deserves the
distinctive title adopted by the editors, viz. "A New General Index, exhibiting, at one view,
all that is geographically and historically interesting in the Holy Scriptures." It presents
such a digest as we rarely witness, and to give the reader some idea of its laborious preparation,
we select a specimen, the matter being arranged in a tabular or columnar form, thus:

Scriptural Name--JEZREAL, Valley, or Plain.

Classic Name--Esdraelon.

Tribe--Issachar.

Country--Canaan.

Scriptural Reference--Judges, vi. 33.

No. of Map.--ix.

Modern Name--Merdj--Ibn Aamer.

Distance and bearing from Jerusalem--40 N.b.E.

Lat. North--32.27.

Long. East--35.25.

Quarter--Asia.

Country--Palestine.

Province--Akka.

Remarks--Here the spirit of the Lord descended upon Gideon, and here the Lord gave him the
sign he required by causing the fleece to be wet or dry at his bidding.

The projector and artist is Mr. Thomas Starling, and its execution, whether graphic or literary,
is calculated to give the public a very high opinion of his taste, talent, and application.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEOGRAPHY.

Mr. Dowling, of Woodstock Boarding-School, has put Goldsmith's Grammar of Geography into question
and answer for junior pupils, or, rather, he has seized on the simplest part of the information
contained in the above work, and added a chapter on latitude and longitude. We hope the attention
of teachers will be directed to his Compendium, as it appears to leave nothing to be desired
in facilitating the progress of the learner.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUTLINES OF KNOWLEDGE.

Mr. Ince, whose Outline of English History we noticed a few weeks since, has been stimulated
to the production of an Outline of General Knowledge. His present Compendium is satisfactory
as a little book of Facts, and may serve as well for a whet to the memory of adults as for
the tuition of children.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOSITIES OF PHRENOLOGY.

The Third Edition of a Catechism of Phrenology, published at Glasgow, induces us to pick out
a few of the author's facts, and we accordingly select the developements of the Feelings and
Faculties. Thus, of Amativeness, the organs are very large in the casts of Mitchell, Dean,
and Raphael. In Dr. Hette, very small.

Philoprogenitiveness, or love of children--the Hindoos, Negroes, and Charibs.

Combativeness--The Charibs, King Robert Bruce, General Wurmser, David Haggart, and generally
in those who have murdered from the impulse of the moment.

Destructiveness--In the heads of Dean, Thurtell, King Robert Bruce, Bellingham, in cool and
deliberate murderers, and in persons who delight in cruelty, where the organ is large; and,
in general, in the Hindoos, small.

Combinativeness--In Raphael, Michael Angelo, Brunel, Haydon, and Herschel, where it is very
fully developed; the New Hollanders, have it small. Being indispensable to the talent for works
of art of every description, it is found large in all those painters, sculptors, mechanicians,
and architects, who have distinguished themselves in their particular departments.

Love of Approbation--In King Robert Bruce, Dr. Hette, Clara Fisher, and the American Indians,
where it is large. Such likewise is uniformly the case in bashful individuals; this disposition
arises in a great measure from a fear of incurring disapprobation.

Cautiousness--In the Hindoos, large; in Bellingham, moderate. Robert Bruce and Hannibal were
remarkable for valour, while they at the same time, possessed cautiousness in a high degree.

Benevolence--In Henri Quatre, where it is large. In Bellingham, Griffiths, and the Charibs,
very small. In King Robert Bruce, moderate.

Veneration--An individual may have this organ very large, without possessing a high degree
of religious feeling. Voltaire, in whom the organ was extraordinarily large, affords a striking
example of this. He embraced every opportunity of turning religion into ridicule; but still,
in him, we find the strong manifestation of the faculty, in the high and almost servile degree
of deference which he paid to superiors in rank and authority. In Raphael, Bruce, and the Negroes,
this organ is large. In Dr. Hette, small.

Firmness--In King Robert Bruce and the American Indians, large.

Hope--In Raphael, large; in Dr. Hette, small.

Ideality--In Milton, Shakspeare, Raphael, Wordsworth, Haydon, and Byron, large. In Mr. Hume
and Bellingham, small.

Wit--According to Dr. Spurzheim, the formation of this faculty is to give rise to the feeling
of the ludicrous, creating, when strong, an almost irresistible disposition to view every object
in that light, while Dr. Gall defines it to be the predominant intellectual feature in Rabelais,
Cervantes, Boileau, Swift, Sterne, and Voltaire. In Sterne, Voltaire, and Henri Quatre, this
organ is large. In Sir J.E. Smith, Mr. Hume, and the Hindoos, small.

Imitation--In Raphael, Clara Fisher, and uniformly in those artists and players who have distinguished
themselves for their imitative powers, large.

Individuality--In the French, generally large; moderate in the English, and in the Scotch, small.

Form--To judge of form in general. The function of this faculty is essential to those engaged
in the imitative arts: it enables the painter to distinguish the different casts of features
and countenances in general; and upon the same principle, is of the most essential service
to the mineralogist. The organ is found large in King George III., and in the Chinese sculls.

Weight or resistance, essential to a genius for mechanics, enabling the individual to judge
of momentum and resistance in that branch of science. The organ is large in Brunel and Sir
Isaac Newton.

Colouring--remarkably developed in the portraits of Reubens, Rembrandt, Titian, Salvator Rosa,
and Claude Lorraine, where its large size is indicated by the arched appearance of the eyebrow
in its situation; and in the masks of the late Sir Henry Raeburn, Wilkie, and Haydon, by the
projection forwards of the eyebrow at that part.

Locality--or the power of remembering localities, in Kepler, Galileo, Newton, Tycho, Descartes,
Sir Walter Scott, and Captain Cook, is large.

Number, or a talent for calculation--in the portraits of Euler, Kepler, Laplace, Gassendi,
&c., and in George Bidder, Humboldt, and Colburn, large.

Tune--In Gluck, where it has a pyramidal form. In Mozart, Viotti, Turnsteg, Dussek, and Crescenti,
where it is distinguished by a fullness and roundness of the lateral parts of the forehead.

Language--in Sir J.E. Smith, Humboldt, and Voltaire, large.

Comparison--in Pitt, Roscoe, Raphael, Burke, John Bunyan, and Mr. Hume.

Casualty, or the connexion between cause and effect--remarkable in the portraits and busts
of Bacon, Kant, Locke, Voltaire, Dr. Thomas Brown; and in the masks of Haydon, Brunel, Burke,
Franklin, and Wilkie, where it is largely developed. In Pitt, and Sir J.E. Smith, it is moderate,
and in the Charibs and New Hollanders, very deficient.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS BY BARRY CORNWALL.

PAST TIMES.

  Old Acquaintance, shall the nights
    You and I once talked together,
  Be forgot like common things,--
  Like some dreary night that brings
    Naught save foul weather?

  We were young, when you and I
    Talked of golden things together,--
  Of love and rhyme, of books and men:
  Ah! our hearts were buoyant then
    As the wild-goose feather!

  Twenty years have fled, we know,
    Bringing care and changing weather;
  But hath th' heart no backward flights,
  That we again may see those nights,
    And laugh together?

  Jove's eagle, soaring to the sun,
    Renews the past year's mouldering feather:
  Ah, why not you and I, then, soar
  From age to youth,--and dream once more
    Long nights together.

THE STRANGER.

  A stranger came to a rich man's door.
    And smiled on his mighty feast;
  And away his brightest child he bore,
    And laid her toward the East.

  He came next spring, with a smile as gay,
    (At the time the East wind blows,)
  And another bright creature he led away,
    With a cheek like a burning rose.

  And he came once more, when the spring was blue,
    And whispered the last to rest,
  And bore her away,--yet nobody knew
    The name of the fearful guest!

  Next year, there was none but the rich man left,--
    Left alone in his pride and pain,
  Who called on the stranger, like one bereft,
    And sought through the land,--in vain!

  He came not: he never was heard nor seen
    Again; (so the story saith;)
  But, wherever his terrible smile had been,
    Men shuddered, and talked of--Death!

THE QUADROON.

  Say they that all beauty lies
  In the paler maiden's hue?
  Say they that all softness flies,
  Save from the eyes of April blue?
  Arise then, like a night in June,
    Beautiful Quadroon!

