Glancing through the story we find that Adam and Eve are led into Paradise, God first giving
them counsel as to what they shall and shall not do, and then retiring into the church. The
happy couple are allowed a brief time in which to demonstrate their joy in the Garden. Then
Satan approaches from Hell and draws Adam into conversation over the barrier. His attempt to
lure Adam to his Fall is vain, nor is he more successful the first time with Eve. But as a
serpent he over-persuades her to eat of the forbidden fruit, and she gives it to Adam, with
the well-known result. In his guilt Adam now withdraws out of sight, changes his red tunic
for a costume contrived out of leaves, and reappears in great grief. God enters from the church
and, after delivering his judgment upon the crime, drives Adam and Eve out of Eden. With spade
and hoe they pass under the curse of labour on the second stage, toiling there with most disappointing
results (Satan sows tares in their field) until the end comes. Let the manuscript speak for
itself again:

     Then shall come the Devil and three or four devils with him,
     carrying in their hands chains and iron fetters, which they shall
     put on the necks of Adam and Eve. And some shall push and others
     pull them to hell: and hard by hell shall be other devils ready to
     meet them, who shall hold high revel at their fall. And certain
     other devils shall point them out as they come, and shall snatch
     them up and carry them into hell; and there shall they make a great
     smoke arise, and call aloud to each other with glee in their hell,
     and clash their pots and kettles, that they may be heard without.
     And after a little delay the devils shall come out and run about
     the stage; but some shall remain in hell.[2]

Immediately after this conclusion comes a shorter play of Cain and Abel, followed in its turn
by another on the Prophets; but in all three the catastrophe is the same--mocking, exultant
devils, and a noisy, smoky 'inferno'.

The most important characteristics of Adam are the venturesome removal of the play outside
the sacred building, the increase in invented dialogue beyond the limits of the Bible narrative,
and the 'by-play' conceded to popular taste. The last two easily followed from the first. Within
a church there is an atmosphere of sanctity, a spirit of prohibition, which must, even in the
Middle Ages, have had a restrictive effect upon the elements of innovation and naturalness.
The good people of the Bible, the saints, had to live up to their reputation in every small
word and deed so long as their statues, images, and pictures gazed down fixedly from the walls
upon their living representatives. This was so much a fact that to the very end Bible and Saint
plays conceded licence of action and speech only to those nameless persons, such as the soldiers,
Pharisees, and shepherds, who never attained to the distinction of individual statues, and
who could never be invoked in prayer. Out of sight of these effigies and paintings, however,
the oppression was at once lightened. True, these model folk could not be permitted to decline
from their prescribed standards, but they might be allowed companions of more homely tastes,
and the duly authorized wicked ones, such as the Devil, Cain, and Herod, might display their
iniquity to the full without offence. Thus it is that in this play we find great prominence
given to the Devil and his brother demons. They would delight the common people: therefore
the author misses no opportunity of securing applause for his production by their antics. Throughout
the play we meet with such stage directions as 'the devils are to run about the stage with
suitable gestures', or the Devil 'shall make a sally amongst the people'.