Although all I have related may appear to be wonderful and unheard of, yet the results of my
voyage would have been more astonishing if I had had at my disposal such ships as I required.
But these great and marvelous results are not to be attributed to any merit of mine, but to
the holy Christian faith, and to the piety and religion of our Sovereigns; for that which the
unaided intellect of man could not compass, the spirit of God has granted to human exertions,
for God is wont to hear the prayers of his servants who love his precepts even to the performance
of apparent impossibilities.

Thus it has happened to me in the present instance, who have accomplished a task to which the
powers of mortal men had never hitherto attained; for if there have been those who have anywhere
written or spoken of these islands, they have done so with doubts and conjectures, and no one
has ever asserted that he has seen them, on which account their writings have been looked upon
as little else than fables.

Therefore let the king and queen, our princes and their most happy kingdoms, and all the other
provinces of Christendom, render thanks to our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who has granted
us so great a victory and such prosperity.

   CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.

     EXPRESSION: In connection with this letter, read again the story of
     the discovery as narrated by Washington Irving, page 43. In what
     respect do the two accounts differ?

II. GOVERNOR WINSLOW TO A FRIEND IN ENGLAND

   DEAR FRIEND,--

Although I received no letter from you by this ship, yet forasmuch as I know you expect the
performance of my promise, which was to write to you truly and faithfully of all things, I
have therefore, at this time, sent unto you accordingly, referring you for further satisfaction
to our more large relations.

You shall understand that in this little time that a few of us have been here, we have built
seven dwelling houses and four for the use of the plantation, and have made preparation for
divers others.

We set the last spring some twenty acres of Indian corn, and sowed some six acres of barley
and pease; and according to the manner of the Indians, we manured our ground with herrings,
or rather shads, which we have in great abundance, and take with great ease at our doors.

Our corn did prove well; and God be praised, we had a good increase of Indian corn, and our
barley indifferent good, but our pease not worth the gathering, for we feared they were too
late sown. They came up very well, and blossomed; but the sun parched them in the blossom.
And although it be not always so plentiful as it was at this time with us, yet by the goodness
of God we are so far from want, that we often wish you partakers of our plenty....

We have often found the Indians very faithful in their covenant of peace with us, very loving,
and ready to pleasure us. We often go to them, and they come to us.... Yea, it hath pleased
God so to possess the Indians with a fear of us and love to us, that not only the greatest
king amongst them, called Massasoit, but also all the princes and peoples round about us, have
either made suit to us, or been glad of any occasion to make peace with us; so that seven of
them at once have sent their messengers to us to that end.... They are a people without any
religion or knowledge of any God, yet very trusty, quick of apprehension, ripe-witted, just....

Now, because I expect you coming unto us, with other of our friends, I thought good to advertise
you of a few things needful. Be careful to have a very good bread room to put your biscuits
in. Let not your meat be dry-salted; none can better do it than the sailors. Let your meal
be so hard trod in your cask that you shall need an adz or hatchet to work it out with. Trust
not too much on us for corn at this time, for we shall have little enough till harvest.

Build your cabins as open as you can, and bring good store of clothes and bedding with you.
Bring every man a musket or fowling piece. Let your piece be long in the barrel, and fear not
the weight of it, for most of our shooting is from stands.

I forbear further to write for the present, hoping to see you by the next return. So I take
my leave, commending you to the Lord for a safe conduct unto us, resting in him,

   Your loving friend,
   EDWARD WINSLOW.

   Plymouth in New England,
   this 11th of December, 1621.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 40: From the "Lay of the Last Minstrel," by Sir Walter Scott.]

II. THE GREEN LITTLE SHAMROCK OF IRELAND[41]

   There's a dear little plant that grows in our isle,
     'Twas St. Patrick himself, sure, that set it;
   And the sun on his labor with pleasure did smile,
     And with dew from his eye often wet it.
   It thrives through the bog, through the brake, through the mireland,
   And its name is the dear little shamrock of Ireland--
     The sweet little shamrock, the dear little shamrock,
     The sweet little, green little shamrock of Ireland.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 41: By Andrew Cherry, an Irish poet (1762-1812).]

III. THE FATHERLAND[43]

   Where is the true man's fatherland?
     Is it where he by chance is born?
     Doth not the yearning spirit scorn
   In such scant borders to be spanned?
     Oh, yes! his fatherland must be
     As the blue heaven wide and free!

   Is it alone where freedom is,
     Where God is God, and man is man?
     Doth he not claim a broader span
   For the soul's love of home than this?
     Oh, yes! his fatherland must be
     As the blue heaven wide and free!

   Where'er a human heart doth wear
     Joy's myrtle wreath or sorrow's gyves,
     Where'er a human spirit strives
   After a life more true and fair,
     There is the true man's birthplace grand,
     His is a world-wide fatherland!

   Where'er a single slave doth pine,
     Where'er one man may help another,--
     Thank God for such a birthright, brother,--
   That spot of earth is thine and mine!
     There is the true man's birthplace grand,
     His is a world-wide fatherland!

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 43: By James Russell Lowell.]

V. HOME[44]

   But where to find that happiest spot below,
   Who can direct when all pretend to know?

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 44: By Oliver Goldsmith.]

     EXPRESSION: Read all of these poems silently with a view towards
     sympathizing with the feelings which they express. Now read each
     one separately, and compare them, one with another. What is the
     leading sentiment inculcated by each? Which poem appeals the most
     strongly to your own emotions?

     WORD STUDY: Caledonia, shamrock, brake, Erin, gyves,
     yearning, frigid, tepid, patriot.

THE AGE OF COAL[45]

Come with me, in fancy, back to those early ages of the world, thousands, yes millions, of
years ago. Stand with me on some low ancient hill, which overlooks the flat and swampy lands
that are to become the American continent.

Few heights are yet in sight. The future Rocky Mountains lie still beneath the surface of the
sea. The Alleghanies are not yet heaved up above the level surface of the ground, for over
them are spread the boggy lands and thick forests of future coal fields. The Mississippi River
is not yet in existence, or if in existence, is but an unimportant little stream.

Below us, as we stand, we can see a broad and sluggish body of water, in places widening into
shallow lakes. On either side of this stream, vast forests extend in every direction as far
as the horizon, bounded on one side by the distant ocean, clothing each hilly rise, and sending
islets of matted trees and shrubs floating down the waters.

Strange forests these are to us. No oaks, no elms, no beeches, no birches, no palms, nor many
colored wild flowers are there. The deciduous plants so common in our modern forests are nowhere
found; but enormous club mosses are seen, as well as splendid pines and an abundance of ancient
trees with waving, frondlike leaves. Here also are graceful tree ferns and countless ferns
of lower growth filling up all gaps.

No wild quadrupeds are yet in existence, and the silent forests are enlivened only by the stirring
of the breeze among the trees or the occasional hum of monstrous insects. But upon the margin
of yonder stream a huge four-footed creature creeps slowly along. He looks much like a gigantic
salamander, and his broad, soft feet make deep impressions in the yielding mud.

No sunshine but only a gleam of light can creep through the misty atmosphere. The earth seems
clothed in a garment of clouds, and the air is positively reeking with damp warmth, like the
air of a hothouse. This explains the luxuriant growth of foliage.

Could we thus stand upon the hilltops and keep watch through the long coal building ages, we
should see generation after generation of forest trees and underwoods living, withering, dying,
falling to earth. Slowly a layer of dead and decaying vegetation thus collects, over which
the forest flourishes still--tree for tree, and shrub for shrub, springing up in the place
of each one that dies.

Then, after a very long time, through the working of mighty underground forces, the broad lands
sink a little way--perhaps only a few feet--and the ocean tide rushes in, overwhelming the
forests, trees and plants and living creatures, in one dire desolation.--No, not dire, for
the ruin is not objectless or needless. It is all a part of the wonderful preparation for the
life of man on earth.

Under the waves lie the overwhelmed forests--prostrate trunks and broken stumps in countless
numbers overspreading the gathered vegetable remains of centuries before. Upon these the sea
builds a protective covering of sand or mud, more or less thick. Here sea creatures come to
live, fishes swim hungrily to and fro, and shellfishes die in the mud which, by and by, is
to become firm rock with stony animal remains embedded in it.

After a while the land rises again to its former position. There are bare, sandy flats as before,
but they do not remain bare. Lichens and hardier plants find a home. The light spores of the
ancient forest trees take root and grow, and luxuriant forests, like those of old, spring again
into being. Upon river and lake bottoms, and over the low damp lands, rich layers of decaying
vegetation again collect. Then once more the land sinks and the ocean tide pours in; and another
sandy or muddy stratum is built up on the overflowed lands. Thus the second layer of forest
growth is buried like the first, and both lie quietly through the long ages following, hidden
from sight, slowly changing in their substance from wood to shining coal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus time after time, the land rose and sank, rose and sank, again and again. Not the whole
continent is believed to have risen or sunk at the same time; but here at one period, there
at another period, the movements probably went on.

The greater part of the vegetable mass decayed slowly; but when the final ruin of the forest
came, whole trunks were snapped off close to the roots and flung down. These are now found
in numbers on the tops of the coal layers, the barks being flattened and changed to shining
black coal.

How wonderful the tale of those ancient days told to us by these buried forests!

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 45: By Agnes Giberne, an English writer on scientific subjects.]

SOMETHING ABOUT THE MOON[46]

I am going to say a few words about the moon; but there are many matters relating to her of
great interest which I must leave untouched, for the simple reason that there is not room to
speak of them in a single paper.

Thus the moon's changes of shape from the horned moon to the half, and thence to the full moon,
with the following changes from full to half, and so to the horned form again, are well worth
studying; but I should want all the space I am going to occupy, merely to explain properly
those changes alone.

So a study of the way in which the moon rules the tides would, I am sure, interest every thoughtful
reader; but there is not room for it here.

Let us now turn to consider the moon; not as the light which makes our nights beautiful, nor
as the body which governs the mighty ocean in its tidal sway, but as another world,--the companion
planet of the earth.

It has always been a matter not only of the deepest curiosity, but of the greatest scientific
import, whether other planets, and particularly our own satellite, are inhabited or exhibit
any traces whatever of animal or vegetable life.

One or two astronomers have claimed the discovery of vegetation on the moon's surface by reason
of the periodic appearance of a greenish tint; but as the power of the telescope can bring
the moon to within only about a hundred and twenty miles of us, these alleged appearances cannot
be satisfactorily verified.

The moon is a globe, two thousand one hundred and sixty-five miles in diameter; very much less,
therefore, than our earth, which has a diameter of about seven thousand nine hundred and twenty
miles.

Thus the moon's surface is less than one thirteenth of the earth's. Instead of two hundred
millions of square miles as the earth has, the moon has only about fourteen millions of square
miles, or about the same surface as North and South America together, without the great American
Islands of the Arctic regions.

The volume of the earth exceeds that of the moon more than forty-nine times. But the moon's
substance is somewhat lighter. Thus the mass, or quantity of matter in the moon, instead of
being a forty-ninth part of the earth's, is about an eighty-first part.

This small companion world travels like our own earth around the sun, at a distance of ninety-three
millions of miles. The path of the moon around the sun is, in fact, so nearly the same as that
of the earth that it would be almost impossible to distinguish one from the other, if they
were both drawn on a sheet of paper a foot or so in diameter.

You may perhaps be surprised to find me thus saying that the moon travels round the sun, when
you have been accustomed to hear that the moon travels round the earth. In reality, however,
it is round the sun the moon travels, though certainly the moon and the earth circle around
each other.

The distance of the moon from the earth is not always the same; but the average, or mean distance,
amounts to about two hundred and thirty-eight thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight miles.
This is the distance between the centers of the two globes. With this distance separating them,
the companion worlds--the earth and the moon--circle round each other, as they both travel
round the central sun.

But now you will be curious to learn whether our companion planet, the moon, really presents
the appearance of a world, when studied with a powerful telescope.

If we judged the moon in this way, we should say that she is not only not inhabited by living
creatures, but that she could not possibly be inhabited. What is it that makes our earth a
fit abode for us who live upon it? Her surface is divided into land and water. We live on the
land; but without the water we should perish.

Were there no water, there would be no clouds, no rain, no snow, no rivers, brooks, or other
streams. Without these, there could be no vegetable life; and without vegetable life, there
could be no animal life, even if animals themselves could live without water.

Yet again, the earth's globe is enwrapped in an atmosphere,--the air we breathe. Without this
air, neither animals nor vegetables could live. I might go further and show other features
of the earth, which we are at present justified in regarding as essential to the mere existence,
and still more to the comfort, of creatures living upon the earth.

Now, before the telescope was invented, many astronomers believed that there was water on the
moon, and probably air also. But as soon as Galileo examined the moon with his largest telescope
(and a very weak telescope it was), he found that whatever the dark parts of the moon may be,
they certainly are not seas.

More and more powerful telescopes have since been turned on the moon. It has been shown that
there are not only no seas, but no rivers, pools, lakes, or other water surfaces. No clouds
are ever seen to gather over any part of the moon's surface. In fact, nothing has ever yet
been seen on the moon which suggests in the slightest degree the existence of water on her
surface, or even that water could at present possibly exist; and, of course, without water
it is safe to infer there could be neither vegetable nor animal existence.

It would seem, then, that apart from the absence of air on the moon, there is such an entire
absence of water that no creatures now living on the earth could possibly exist upon the moon.
Certainly man could not exist there, nor could animals belonging to any except the lowest orders
of animal life.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 47: By Ralph Waldo Emerson, an American poet and philosopher (1803-1882).]

THE RETURN OF THE BIRDS[48]

The coming and going of the birds is more or less a mystery and a surprise.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 48: By John Burroughs.]

     EXPRESSION: Read again the four descriptive selections beginning on
     page 179. Observe the wide difference in style of composition. Of
     the three prose extracts, which is the most interesting to you?
     Give reasons why this is so. Which passages require the most
     animation in reading? Read these passages so that those who are
     listening to you may fully appreciate their meaning.

THE POET AND THE BIRD

I. THE SONG OF THE LARK

On a pleasant evening in late summer the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley and his wife, Mary Shelley,
were walking near the city of Leghorn in Italy. The sky was cloudless, the air was soft and
balmy, and the earth seemed hushed into a restful stillness. The green lane along which they
were walking was bordered by myrtle hedges, where crickets were softly chirping and fireflies
were already beginning to light their lamps. From the fields beyond the hedges the grateful
smell of new-mown hay was wafted, while in the hazy distance the church towers of the city
glowed yellow in the last rays of the sun, and the gray-green sea rippled softly in the fading
light of day.

Suddenly, from somewhere above them, a burst of music fell upon their ears. It receded upward,
but swelled into an ecstatic harmony, with fluttering intervals and melodious swervings such
as no musician's art can imitate.

"What is that?" asked the poet, as the song seemed to die away in the blue vault of heaven.

"It is a skylark," answered his wife.

"Nay," said the poet, his face all aglow with the joy of the moment; "no mere bird ever poured
forth such strains of music as that. I think, rather, that it is some blithe spirit embodied
as a bird."

"Let us imagine that it is so," said Mary. "But, hearken. It is singing again, and soaring
as it sings."

"Yes, and I can see it, too, like a flake of gold against the pale purple of the sky. It is
so high that it soars in the bright rays of the sun, while we below are in the twilight shade.
And now it is descending again, and the air is filled with its song. Hark to the rain of melody
which it showers down upon us."

