[Footnote A: In 1844, Padre Marchi published a series of numbers, seventeen in all, of a work
entitled Monumenti delle Arti Cristiane Primitive nella Metropol del Cristianesmo. The numbers
are in quarto, and illustrated by many carefully executed plates. The work was never completed;
but it contains a vast amount of important information, chiefly the result of Padre Marchi's
own inquiries. The Cavaliere de Rossi, still a young man, one of the most learned and accomplished
scholars of Italy, is engaged at present in editing all the Christian inscriptions of the first
six centuries. No part of this work has yet appeared. He is the highest living authority on
any question regarding the catacombs. The work of the French Commission has been published
at Paris in the most magnificent style, in six imperial folio volumes, under the title, Catacombes
de Rome, etc., etc. Par LOUIS PERRET. Ouvrage publié par Ordre et aux Frais du Gouvernement,
sous la Direction d'une Commission composée de MM. AMPERE, INGRES, MERIMÉE, VITET. It consists
of four volumes of elaborate colored plates of architecture, mural paintings, and all works
of art found in the catacombs, with one volume of inscriptions, reduced in fac-simile from
the originals, and one volume of text. The work is of especial value as regards the first period
of Christian Art. Its chief defect is the want of entire accuracy, in some instances, in its
representations of the mural paintings,--some outlines effaced in the original being filled
out in the copy, and some colors rendered too brightly. But notwithstanding this defect, it
is of first importance in illustrating the hitherto very obscure history and character of early
Christian Art.]

The Roman catacombs consist for the most part of a subterranean labyrinth of passages, cut
through the soft volcanic rock of the Campagna, so narrow as rarely to admit of two persons
walking abreast easily, but here and there on either side opening into chambers of varying
size and form. The walls of the passages, through their whole extent, are lined with narrow
excavations, one above another, large enough to admit of a body being placed in each; and where
they remain in their original condition, these excavations are closed in front by tiles, or
by a slab of marble cemented to the rock, and in most cases bearing an inscription. Nor is
the labyrinth composed of passages upon a single level only; frequently there are several stories,
connected with each other by sloping ways.

There is no single circumstance, in relation to the catacombs, of more striking and at first
sight perplexing character than their vast extent. About twenty different catacombs are now
known and are more or less open,--and a year is now hardly likely to pass without the discovery
of a new one; for the original number of underground cemeteries, as ascertained from the early
authorities, was nearly, if not quite, three times this number. It is but a very few years
since the entrance to the famous catacomb of St. Callixtus, one of the most interesting of
all, was found by the Cavaliere de Rossi; and it was only in the spring of 1855 that the buried
church and catacomb of St. Alexander on the Nomentan Way were brought to light. Earthquakes,
floods, and neglect have obliterated the openings of many of these ancient cemeteries,--and
the hollow soil of the Campagna is full "of hidden graves, which men walk over without knowing
where they are."

Each of the twelve great highways which ran from the gates of Rome was bordered on either side,
at a short distance from the city wall, by the hidden Christian cemeteries. The only one of
the catacombs of which even a partial survey has been made is that of St. Agnes, of a portion
of which the Padre Marchi published a map in 1845. "It is calculated to contain about an eighth
part of that cemetery. The greatest length of the portion thus measured is not more than seven
hundred feet, and its greatest width about five hundred and fifty; nevertheless, if we measure
all the streets that it contains, their united length scarcely falls short of two English miles.
This would give fifteen or sixteen miles for all the streets in the cemetery of St. Agnes."[B]
Taking this as a fair average of the size of the catacombs, for some are larger and some smaller,
we must assign to the streets of graves already known a total length of about three hundred
miles, with a probability that the unknown ones are at least of equal length. This conclusion
appears startling, when one thinks of the close arrangement of the lines of graves along the
walls of these passages. The height of the passages varies greatly, and with it the number
of graves, one above another; but the Padre Marchi, who is competent authority, estimates the
average number at ten, that is, five on each side, for every seven feet,--which would give
a population of the dead, for the three hundred miles, of not less than two millions and a
quarter. No one who has visited the catacombs can believe, surprising as this number may seem,
that the Padre Marchi's calculation is an extravagant one as to the number of graves in a given
space. We have ourselves counted eleven graves, one over another, on each side of the passage,
and there is no space lost between the head of one grave and the foot of another. Everywhere
there is economy of space,--the economy of men working on a hard material, difficult to be
removed, and laboring in a confined space, with the need of haste.

[Footnote B: The foregoing extract is taken from a book by the Rev. J. Spencer Northcote, called
The Roman Catacombs, or some Account of the Burial-Places of the Early Christians in Rome:
London, 1857. It is the best accessible manual in English,--the only one with any claims to
accuracy, and which contains the results of recent investigations. Mr. Northcote is one of
the learned band of converts from Oxford to Rome. A Protestant may question some of the conclusions
in his book, but not its general fairness. Our own first introduction to the catacombs, in
the winter of 1856, was under Mr. Northcote's guidance, and much of our knowledge of them was
gained through him. Mr. Northcote estimates the total length of the catacombs at nine hundred
miles; we cannot but think this too high.]

This question of the number of the dead in the catacombs opens the way to many other curious
questions. The length of time that the catacombs were used as burial-places; the probability
of others, beside Christians, being buried in them; the number of Christians at Rome during
the first two centuries, in comparison with the total number of the inhabitants of the city;
and how far the public profession of Christianity was attended with peril in ordinary times
at Rome, previously to the conversion of Constantine, so as to require secret and hasty burial
of the dead;--these are points demanding solution, but of which we will take up only those
relating immediately to the catacombs.

There can, of course, be no certainty with regard to the period when the first Christian catacomb
was begun at Rome,--but it was probably within a few years after the first preaching of the
Gospel there. The Christians would naturally desire to separate themselves in burial from the
heathen, and to avoid everything having the semblance of pagan rites. And what mode of sepulture
so natural for them to adopt, in the new and affecting circumstances of their lives, as that
which was already familiar to them in the account of the burial of their Lord? They knew that
he had been "wrapped in linen, and laid in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and a
stone had been rolled unto the door of the sepulchre." They would be buried as he was. Moreover,
there was a general and ardent expectation among them of the second coming of the Saviour;
they believed it to be near at hand; and they believed also that then the dead would be called
from their graves, clothed once more in their bodies, and that as Lazarus rose from the tomb
at the voice of his Master, so in that awful day when judgment should be passed upon the earth
their dead would rise at the call of the same beloved voice.

But there were, in all probability, other more direct, though not more powerful reasons, which
led them to the choice of this mode of burial. We read that the Saviour was buried--at least,
the phrase appears applicable to the whole account of his entombment ... "as the manner of
the Jews is to bury." The Jewish population at Rome in the early imperial times was very large.
They clung, as Jews have clung wherever they have been scattered, to the memories and to the
customs of their country,--and that they retained their ancient mode of sepulture was curiously
ascertained by Bosio, the first explorer of the catacombs. In the year 1602, he discovered
a catacomb on what is called Monte Verde,--the southern extremity of the Janiculum, outside
the walls of Rome, near to the Porta Portese. This gate is in the Transtiberine district, and
in this quarter of Rome the Jews dwelt. The catacomb resembled in its general form and arrangements
those which were of Christian origin;--but here no Christian emblem was found. On the contrary,
the only emblems and articles that Bosio describes as having been seen were plainly of Jewish
origin. The seven-branched candlestick was painted on the wall; the word "Synagogue" was read
on a portion of a broken inscription and the whole catacomb had an air of meanness and poverty
which was appropriate to the condition of the mass of the Jews at Rome. It seemed to be beyond
doubt that it was a Jewish cemetery. In the course of years, through the changes in the external
condition and the cultivation of Monte Verde, the access to this catacomb has been lost. Padre
Marchi made ineffectual efforts a few years since to find an entrance to it, and Bosio's account
still remains the only one that exists concerning it. Supposing the Jews to have followed this
mode of interment at Rome, it would have been a strong motive for its adoption by the early
Christians. The first converts in Rome, as St. Paul's Epistle shows, were, in great part, from
among the Jews. The Gentile and the Jewish Christians made one community, and the Gentiles
adopted the manner of the Jews in placing their dead, "wrapped in linen cloths, in new tombs
hewn out of the rock."

Believing, then, the catacombs to have been begun within a few years after the first preaching
of Christianity in Rome, there is abundant evidence to prove that their construction was continued
during the time when the Church was persecuted or simply tolerated, and that they were extended
during a considerable time after Christianity became the established creed of the empire. Indeed,
several catacombs now known were not begun until some time after Constantine's conversion.[C]
They continued to be used as burial-places certainly as late as the sixth century. This use
seems to have been given up at the time of the frequent desolation of the land around the walls
of Rome by the incursions of barbarians, and the custom gradually discontinued was never resumed.
The catacombs then fell into neglect, were lost sight of, and their very existence was almost
forgotten. But during the first five hundred years of our era they were the burial-places of
a smaller or greater portion of the citizens of Rome,--and as not a single church of that time
remains, they are, and contain in themselves, the most important monuments that exist of the
Christian history of Rome for all that long period.

[Footnote C: For instance, about the middle of the fourth century, St. Julius, then Pope, is
said to have begun three. See Marchi's Momumenti delle Arti Cristiane, p. 82.]

It has been much the fashion during the last two centuries, among a certain class of critics
hostile to the Roman Church, and sometimes hostile to Christianity, to endeavor to throw doubts
on the fact of this immense amount of underground work having been accomplished by the Christians.
It has been said that the catacombs were in part the work of the heathen, and that the Christians
made use of excavations which they found ready to their hand. Such and other similar assertions
have been put forward with great confidence; but there is one overwhelming and complete answer
to all such doubts,--a visit to the catacombs themselves. No skepticism can stand against such
arguments as are presented there. Every pathway is distinctly the work of Christian hands;
the whole subterranean city is filled with a host of the Christian dead. But there are other
convincing proofs of the character of their makers. These are of a curiously simple description,
and are due chiefly to the investigations of late years. Nine tenths of the catacombs now known
are cut through one of the volcanic rocks which abound in the neighborhood of Rome. Of the
three chief varieties of volcanic rock that exist there, this is the only one which is of little
use for purposes of art or trade. It could not have been quarried for profit. It would not
have been quarried, therefore, by the Romans, except for the purposes of burial,--and the only
inscriptions and other indications of the character of the occupants of these burial-places
prove that they were Christian.[D] They are very different from the sepulchres of the great
and rich families of Rome, who lined the Appian, the Nomentan, and Flaminian Ways with their
tombs, even now magnificent in ruin; very different, too, from the columbaria, or pigeon-holes,
in which the ashes of the less wealthy were packed away; and still more different from the
sad undistinguished ditch that received the bodies of the poor:--

  "Hoc miserae plebi stabat commune sepulcrum."

[Footnote D: The volcanic rocks are the Tufa litoide, very hard, and used for paving and other
such purposes; difficult to be quarried, and unfit for graves on account of this difficulty.
The Tufi granulare, a soft, friable, coarse-grained rock, easily cut,--fitted for excavation.
It is in this that the catacombs are made. It is used for very few purposes in Rome. One may
now and then see some coarse filling-up of walls done with it, or its square-cut blocks piled
up as a fence. The third is the Pura pozzolana,--which is the Tufa granulare in a state of
compact sand, yielding to the print of the heel, dug like sand, and used extensively in the
unsurpassed mortar of the Roman buildings.]

It not unfrequently happens in the soil of the Campagna, that the vein of harder rock in which
the catacombs are quarried assumes the soft and sandy character which belongs to it in a state
of decomposition. The ancient Romans dug this sand as the modern Romans do; and it seems probable,
from the fact that some of the catacombs open out into arenaria, or sandpits, as in the case
of the famous one of St. Agnes, that the Christians, in time of persecution, when obliged to
bury with secresy, may have chosen a locality near some disused sandpit, or near a sandpit
belonging to one of their own number, for the easier concealment of their work, and for the
safer removal of the quarried tufa. In such cases the tufa may have been broken down into the
condition of sand for removal. In later times, as the catacombs were extended, the tufa dug
out from one passage was carried into the old passages no longer used; and thus, as the catacomb
extended in one direction, it was closed up in another, and the ancient graves were concealed.
This is now one of the great impediments in the way of modern exploration; and the same process
is being repeated at present; for the Church allows none of the earth or stone to be removed
that has been hallowed as the resting-place of the martyrs, and thus, as one passage is now
opened, another has to be closed. The archaeologists may rebel, but the priests have their
way. The ancient filling up was, however, productive of one good result; it preserved some
of the graves from the rifling to which most were exposed during the period of the desertion
of the catacombs. Most of the graves which are now found with their tiled or marble front complete,
and with the inscription of name or date upon them unbroken, are those which were thus secluded.

But there is still another curious fact bearing upon the Christian origin of the catacombs.
They are in general situated on somewhat elevated land, and always on land protected from the
overflow of the river, and from the drainage of the hills. The early traditions of the Church
preserve the names of many Christians who gave land for the purpose,--a portion of their vignas,
or their villas. The names of the women Priscilla, Cyriaca, and Lucina are honored with such
remembrance, and are attached to three of the catacombs. Sometimes a piece of land was thus
occupied which was surrounded by property belonging to those who were not Christian. This seems
to have been the case, for instance, in regard to the cemetery of St. Callixtus; for (and this
is one of the recent discoveries of the Cavaliere de Rossi) the paths of this cemetery, crossing
and recrossing in three, four, and five stages, are all limited to a definite and confined
area,--and this area is not determined by the quality of the ground, but apparently by the
limits of the field overhead. There can be no other probable explanation of this but that Christians
would not extend their burial-place under land that was not in their possession. Many other
facts, as we shall see in other connections, go to establish beyond the slightest doubt the
Christian origin and occupation of the catacombs.

Descending from the level of the ground by a flight of steps into one of the narrow underground
passages, one sees on either side, by the light of the taper with which he is provided, range
upon range of tombs cut, as has been described, in the walls that border the pathway. Usually
the arrangement is careful, but with an indiscriminate mingling of larger and smaller graves,
as if they had been made one after another for young and old, according as they might be brought
for burial. Now and then a system of regularity is introduced, as if the fossor, or digger,
who was a recognized officer of the early Church, had had the leisure for preparing graves
before they were needed. Here, there is a range of little graves for the youngest children,
so that all infants should be laid together, then a range for older children, and then one
for the grown up. Sometimes, instead of a grave suitable for a single body, the excavation
is made deep enough into the rock to admit of two, three, or four bodies being placed side
by side,--family graves. And sometimes, instead of the simple loculus, or coffin-like excavation,
there is an arch cut out of the tufa, and sunk back over the whole depth of the grave, the
outer side of which is not cut away, so that, instead of being closed in front by a perpendicular
slab of marble or by tiles, it is covered on the top by a horizontal slab. Such a grave is
called an arcosolium, and its somewhat elaborate construction leads to the conclusion that
it was rarely used in the earliest period of the catacombs[E]. The arcosolia are usually wide
enough for more than one body; and it would seem, from inscriptions that have been found upon
their covering-slabs, that they were not infrequently prepared during the lifetime of persons
who had paid beforehand for their graves. It is not improbable that the expenses of some one
or more of the cemeteries may have been borne by the richer members of the Christian community,
for the sake of their poorer brothers in the faith. The example of Nicodemus was one that would
be readily followed.

[Footnote E: There is one puzzling circumstance in the cemetery of S. Domitilla. All the graves
in this cemetery are arcosolia, and yet the date of construction is early. The Cavaliere de
Rossi suggests that the cemetery was begun at the expense of the Domitilla whose name it bears,
the niece of Domitian, previously to her banishment; that her position enabled her to have
it laid out from the beginning on a regular plan, and to introduce this more expensive and
elaborate form of grave, which was continued for the sake of uniformity in the later excavations.]

But beside the different forms of the graves, by which their general character was varied,
there were often personal marks of affection and remembrance affixed to the narrow excavations,
which give to the catacombs their most peculiar and touching interest. The marble facing of
the tomb is engraved with a simple name or date; or where tiles take the place of marble, the
few words needed are scratched upon their hard surface. It is not too much to say that we know
more of the common faith and feeling, of the sufferings and rejoicings of the Christians of
the first two centuries from these inscriptions than from all other sources put together. In
another paper we propose to treat more fully of them. As we walk along the dark passage, the
eye is caught by the gleam of a little flake of glass fastened in the cement which once held
the closing slab before the long since rifled grave. We stop to look at it. It is a broken
bit from the bottom of a little jar (ampulla); but that little glass jar once held the drops
of a martyr's blood, which had been carefully gathered up by those who learned from him how
to die, and placed here as a precious memorial of his faith. The name of the martyr was perhaps
never written on his grave; if it were ever there, it has been lost for centuries; but the
little dulled bit of glass, as it catches the rays of the taper borne through the silent files
of graves, sparkles and gleams with a light and glory not of this world. There are other graves
in which martyrs have lain, where no such sign as this appears, but in its place the rude scratching
of a palm-branch upon the rock or the plaster. It was the sign of victory, and he who lay within
had conquered. The great rudeness in the drawing of the palm, often as if, while the mortar
was still wet, the mason had made the lines upon it with his trowel, is a striking indication
of the state of feeling at the time when the grave was made. There was no pomp or parade; possibly
the burial of him or of her who had died for the faith was in secret; those who carried the
corpse of their beloved to the tomb were, perhaps, in this very act, preparing to follow his
steps,--were, perhaps, preparing themselves for his fate. Their thoughts were with their Lord,
and with his disciple who had just suffered for his sake,--with their Saviour who was coming
so soon. What matter to put a name on the tomb? They could not forget where they had laid the
torn and wearied limbs away. In pace, they would write upon the stone; a palm branch should
be marked in the mortar, the sign of suffering and triumph. Their Lord would remember his servant.
Was not his blood crying to God from the ground? And could they doubt that the Lord would also
protect and avenge? In those first days there was little thought of relics to be carried away,--little
thought of material suggestions to the dull imagination, and pricks to the failing memory.
The eternal truths of their religion were too real to them; their faith was too sincere; their
belief in the actual union of heaven and earth, and of the presence of God with them in the
world, too absolute to allow them to feel the need of that lower order of incitements which
are the resort of superstition, ignorance, and conventionalism in religion. In the earlier
burials, no differences, save the ampulla and the palm, or some equally slight sign, distinguished
the graves of the martyrs from those of other Christians.

It is not to be supposed that the normal state of the Christian community in Rome, during the
first three centuries, was that of suffering and alarm. A period of persecution was the exception
to long courses of calm years. Undoubtedly, during most of the time, the faith was professed
under restraint, and possibly with a sense of insecurity which rendered it attractive to ardent
souls, and preserved something of its first sincerity. It must be remembered that the first
Christian converts were mostly from among the poorer classes, and that, however we might have
admired their virtues, we might yet have been offended by much that was coarse and unrefined
in the external exhibitions of their religion. The same features which accompany the religious
manifestations of the uncultivated in our own days, undoubtedly, with somewhat different aspect,
presented themselves at Rome. The enthusiasms, the visions, the loud preaching and praying,
the dull iteration and reiteration of inspired truth till all the inspiration is driven out,
were all probably to be heard and witnessed in the early Christian days at Rome. Not all the
converts were saints,--and none of them were such saints as the Catholic painters of the last
three centuries have prostituted Art and debased Religion in producing. The real St. Cecilia
stood in the beauty of holiness before the disciples at Rome far purer and lovelier than Raphael
has painted her. Domenichino has outraged every feeling of devotion, every sense of truth,
every sympathy for the true suffering of the women who were cruelly murdered for their faith,
in his picture of the Martyrdom of St. Agnes. It is difficult to destroy the effect that has
been produced upon one's own heart by these and innumerable other pictures of declining Art,--pictures
honored by the Roman Church of to-day,--and to bring up before one's imagination, in vivid,
natural, and probable outline, the life and form of the converts, saints, and martyrs of the
first centuries. If we could banish all remembrance of all the churches and all the pictures
contained in them, built and painted, since the fourteenth century, we might hope to gain some
better view of the Christians who lived above the catacombs, and were buried in them. It is
from the catacombs that we must seek all that is left to enable us to construct the image that
we desire.

On other graves beside those of the martyrs there are often found some little signs by which
they could be easily recognized by the friends who might wish to visit them again. Sometimes
there is the impression of a seal upon the mortar; sometimes a ring or coin is left fastened
into it; often a terra-cotta lamp is set in the cement at the head of the grave. Touching,
tender memorials of love and piety! Few are left now in the opened catacombs, but here and
there one may be seen in its original place,--the visible sign of the sorrow and the faith
of those who seventeen or eighteen centuries ago rested upon that support on which we rest
to-day, and found it, in hardest trial, unfailing.

But the galleries of the catacombs are not wholly occupied with graves. Now and then they open
on either side into chambers (cubicula) of small dimension and of various form, scooped out
of the rock, and furnished with graves around their sides,--the burial-place arranged beforehand
for some large family, or for certain persons buried with special honor. Other openings in
the rock are designed for chapels, in which the burial and other services of the Church were
performed. These, too, are of various sizes and forms; the largest of them would hold but a
small number of persons;[F] but not unfrequently two stand opposite each other on the passage-way,
as if one were for the men and the other for the women who should be present at the services.
Entering the chapel through a narrow door whose threshold is on a level with the path, we see
at the opposite side a recess sunk in the rock, often semicircular, like the apsis of a church,
and in this recess an arcosolium,--which served at the same time as the grave of a martyr and
as the altar of the little chapel. It seems, indeed, as if in many cases the chapel had been
formed not so much for the general purpose of holding religious service within the catacombs,
as for that of celebrating worship over the remains of the martyr whose body had been transferred
from its original grave to this new tomb. It was thus that the custom, still prevalent in the
Roman Church, of requiring that some relics shall be contained within an altar before it is
held to be consecrated, probably began. But they knelt before the altar-tombs, not as before
altars consecrated with relics of saints, but as before altars dedicated to God and connected
with the memory of their own honored and beloved dead, whom he had called from them into his
holy presence.

[Footnote F: These chapels are generally about ten feet square. Some are larger, and a few
smaller than this.]

[Footnote G: Revelations, vi. 9-11. It seems probable that another custom of the Roman Church
took its rise in the catacombs,--that of burning candles on the altar; a custom simple in its
origin, now turned into a form of superstition, and often abused to the profit of priests.]

It is impossible to ascertain the date at which these chapels were first made; probably some
time about the middle of the second century they became common. In many of the catacombs they
are very numerous, and it is in them that the chief ornaments and decorations, and the paintings
which give to the catacombs an especial value and importance in the history of Art, and which
are among the most interesting illustrations of the state of religious feeling and belief in
the early centuries, are found. Some of the chapels are known to be of comparatively late date,
of the fourth and perhaps of the fifth century. In several even of earlier construction is
found, in addition to the altar, a niche cut out in the rock, or a ledge projecting from it,
which seems to have been intended to serve the place of the credence table, for holding the
articles used in the service of the altar, and at a later period for receiving the elements
before they were handed to the priest for consecration. The earliest services in the catacombs
were undoubtedly those connected with the communion of the Lord's Supper. The mystery of the
mass and the puzzles of transubstantiation had not yet been introduced among the believers;
but all who had received baptism as followers of Christ, all save those who had fallen away
into open and manifest sin, were admitted to partake of the Lord's Supper. Possibly upon some
occasions these chapels may have been filled with the sounds of exhortation and lamentation.
In the legends of the Roman Church we read of large numbers of Christians being buried alive,
in time of persecution, in these underground chambers where they had assembled for worship
and for counsel. But we are not aware of any proof of the truth of these stories having been
discovered in recent times. This, and many other questionable points in the history and in
the uses of the catacombs, may be solved by the investigations which are now proceeding; and
it is fortunate for the interests, not only of truth, but of religion, that so learned and
so honest-minded a man as the Cavaliere de Rossi should have the direction of these explorations.

Few of the chapels that are to be seen now in the catacombs are in their original condition.
As time went on, and Christianity became a corrupt and imperial religion, the simple truths
which had sufficed for the first Christians were succeeded by doctrines less plain, but more
adapted to touch cold and materialized imaginations, and to inflame dull hearts. The worship
of saints began, and was promoted by the heads of the Church, who soon saw how it might be
diverted to the purposes of personal and ecclesiastical aggrandizement. Consequently the martyrs
were made into a hierarchy of saintly protectors of the strayed flock of Christ, and round
their graves in the catacombs sprang up a harvest of tales, of visions, of miracles, and of
superstitions. As the Church sank lower and lower, as the need of a heavenly advocate with
God was more and more impressed upon the minds of the Christians of those days, the idea seems
to have arisen that neighborhood of burial to the grave of some martyr might be an effectual
way to secure the felicity of the soul. Consequently we find in these chapels that the later
Christians, those perhaps of the fifth and sixth centuries, disregarding the original arrangements,
and having lost all respect for the Art, and all reverence for the memorial pictures which
made the walls precious, were often accustomed to cut out graves in the walls above and around
the martyr's tomb, and as near as possible to it. The instances are numerous in which pictures
of the highest interest have been thus ruthlessly defaced. No sacredness of subject could resist
the force of the superstition; and we remember one instance where, in a picture of which the
part that remains is of peculiar interest, the body of the Good Shepherd has been cut through
for the grave of a child,--so that only the feet and a part of the head of the figure remain.

There is little reason for supposing, as has frequently been done, that the catacombs, even
in times of persecution, afforded shelter to any large body of the faithful. Single, specially
obnoxious, or timid individuals, undoubtedly, from time to time, took refuge in them, and may
have remained within them for a considerable period. Such at least is the story, which we see
no reason to question, in regard to several of the early Popes. But no large number of persons
could have existed within them. The closeness of the air would very soon have rendered life
insupportable; and supposing any considerable number had collected near the outlet, where a
supply of fresh air could have reached them, the difficulty of obtaining food and of concealing
their place of retreat would have been in most instances insurmountable. The catacombs were
always places for the few, not for the many; for the few who followed a body to the grave;
for the few who dug the narrow, dark passages in which not many could work; for the few who
came to supply the needs of some hunted and hidden friend; for the few who in better times
assembled to join in the service commemorating the last supper of their Lord.

It is difficult, as we have said before, to clear away the obscuring fictions of the Roman
Church from the entrance of the catacombs; but doing this so far as with our present knowledge
may be done, we find ourselves entering upon paths that bring us into near connection and neighborhood
with the first followers of the founders of our faith at Rome. The reality which is given to
the lives of the Christians of the first centuries by acquaintance with the memorials that
they have left of themselves here quickens our feeling for them into one almost of personal
sympathy. "Your obedience is come abroad unto all men," wrote St. Paul to the first Christians
of Rome. The record of that obedience is in the catacombs. And in the vast labyrinth of obscure
galleries one beholds and enters into the spirit of the first followers of the Apostle to the
Gentiles.

[To be continued.]

THE NEST.

  MAY.

  When oaken woods with buds are pink,
    And new-come birds each morning sing,--
  When fickle May on Summer's brink
    Pauses, and knows not which to fling,
  Whether fresh bud and bloom again,
  Or hoar-frost silvering hill and plain,--

  Then from the honeysuckle gray
    The oriole with experienced quest
  Twitches the fibrous bark away,
    The cordage of his hammock-nest,--
  Cheering his labor with a note
  Rich as the orange of his throat.

  High o'er the loud and dusty road
    The soft gray cup in safety swings,
  To brim ere August with its load
    Of downy breasts and throbbing wings,
  O'er which the friendly elm-tree heaves
  An emerald roof with sculptured eaves.

  Below, the noisy World drags by
    In the old way, because it must,--
  The bride with trouble in her eye,
    The mourner following hated dust:
  Thy duty, winged flame of Spring,
  Is but to love and fly and sing.

  Oh, happy life, to soar and sway
    Above the life by mortals led,
  Singing the merry months away,
    Master, not slave of daily bread,
  And, when the Autumn comes, to flee
  Wherever sunshine beckons thee!

  PALINODE.--DECEMBER.

  Like some lorn abbey now, the wood
    Stands roofless in the bitter air;
  In ruins on its floor is strewed
    The carven foliage quaint and rare,
  And homeless winds complain along
  The columned choir once thrilled with song.

  And thou, dear nest, whence joy and praise
    The thankful oriole used to pour,
  Swing'st empty while the north winds chase
    Their snowy swarms from Labrador:
  But, loyal to the happy past,
  I love thee still for what thou wast.

  Ah, when the Summer graces flee
    From other nests more dear than thou,
  And, where June crowded once, I see
    Only bare trunk and disleaved bough,
  When springs of life that gleamed and gushed
  Run chilled, and slower, and are hushed,--

  I'll think, that, like the birds of Spring,
    Our good goes not without repair,
  But only flies to soar and sing
    Far off in some diviner air,
  Where we shall find it in the calms
  Of that fair garden 'neath the palms.

       *       *       *       *       *

EBEN JACKSON.

  Fear no more the heat o' the sun,
  Nor the furious winter's rages;
  Thou thine earthly task hast done.

The large tropical moon rose in full majesty over the Gulf of Mexico, that beneath it rolled
a weltering surge of silver, which broke upon the level sand of the beach with a low, sullen
roar, prophetic of storms to come. To-night a south wind was heavily blowing over Gulf and
prairie, laden with salt odors of weed and grass, now and then crossed by a strain of such
perfume as only tropic breezes know,--a breath of heavy, passionate sweetness from orange-groves
and rose gardens, mixed with the miasmatic sighs of rank forests, and mile on mile of tangled
cane-brake, where jewel-tinted snakes glitter and emit their own sickly-sweet odor, and the
deep blue bells of luxuriant vines wave from their dusky censers steams of poisonous incense.

I endured the influence of all this as long as I dared, and then turned my pony's head from
the beach, and, loitering through the city's hot streets, touched him into a gallop as the
prairie opened before us, and followed the preternatural, colossal shadow of horse and man
east by the moon across the dry dull grass and bitter yellow chamomile growth of the sand,
till I stopped at the office door of the Hospital, when, consigning my horse to a servant,
I commenced my nightly round of the wards.

