" said the Count, "but I protest I have no money about me."
She insisted: at last the Count said, "Since your Highness commands us peremptorily, I believe
Sir William has four or five hundred pounds of mine, that I am to pay away in the city to-morrow:
if he will be so good as to step to his bureau for that Sum, I will make a bank of it." Mr.
Rodney owns he was a little astonished at seeing the Count shuffle with the faces of the cards
upwards; but concluding that Sir 'William Burdett, at whose house he was, was a relation or
particular friend of Lord Castledurrow, he was unwilling to affront my lord.  In short, my
lord and he lost about a hundred and fifty apiece, and it was settled that they should meet
for payment the next morning at breakfast at Ranelagh, In the mean time Lord C. had the curiosity
to inquire a little int the character of his new friend the Baronet; and being au fait, he
went up to him at Ranelagh and apostrophized him; "Sir William, here is the sum I think I lost
last night; since that I have heard that you are a professed pickpocket, and therefore desire
to have no further acquaintance with you." Sir William bowed, took the money and no notice;
but as they were going away, he followed Lord Castledurrow and said, "Good God, my lord, my
equipage is not come; will you be so good as to set me down at Buckingham-gate?" and without
staying for an answer, whipped into the chariot and came to town with him.  If you don't admire
the coolness of this impudence, I shall wonder.  Adieu! I have written till I can scarce write
my name.(1504)

(1494) Lord Granville's house in Arlington Street was the lowest in the street on the side
of the Green-park-D.

(1495) John, second Viscount St. John, the only surviving son of Henry, first Viscount St.
John, by his second wife, Angelica Magdalene, daughter of George Pillesary, treasurer-general
of the marines in France, He was half- brother of the celebrated Henry, Viscount Bolingbroke,
who was the only son of the said Henry, first Viscount St. John, by his first wife Mary, second
daughter of Robert Rich, Earl of Warwick.  John, second Viscount St. John, was the direct ancestor
of the present Viscount Bolingbroke and St. John.-D.

(1496) Sir Dudley Ryder.

(1497) In consequence of the University's always electing Jacobites to that office.-D.

(1498) Lady Charlotte Boyle, second daughter of Richard, Earl of Burlington and Cork, and wife
of William, Marquis of Hartington.

(1499) William Cavendish, afterwards fifth Duke of Devonshire, and Knight of the Garter.  He
died in 1811.-D.

(1500) George, third Earl of Orford.

(1501) Sir William Vigors Burdett, of Dunmore, in the county of Carlow.-E.

(1502) Henry Flower, Lord Castledurrow, and afterwards created Viscount Ashbrook.

(1503) George Brydges Rodney.  He had distinguished himself in Lord Hawke's victory, In 1761
he took the French island of Martinique.  In 1779 he met and defeated the Spanish fleet commanded
by Don Juan de Langara, and relieved the garrison of gibraltar, which was closely besieged;
and in 1789, he obtained his celebrated victory over the French fleet commanded by Count de
Grasse.  For this latter service he was created a peer, by the title of Baron Rodney, of Rodney
Stoke in the county of Somerset.  He died May 24, 1792.