He interrupted me with a shake of his head, and added: "--and everybody is coughing and spitting
and wiping his nose, while the rich are wrapped in furs like the Greenlanders and the poor
are starving and freezing. That is no joke, especially for such old bones as mine. I no longer
hanker for it. Not in this life! When you are as old as I am you will realize what a blessing
the sun is. You complain of the heat; but I feel its benefit in the marrow of my bones and
still deeper. I no longer run away from the sun. I have been more than forty years in Brazil,
and I too often wonder how things look in the old town--whether they still loiter about the
well, whether Hannah is still living, and how this one and that one is getting along. But--they
have probably got along very much as I have myself, well and ill; they have grown old, if they
are not dead already, and they are probably glad to be where it is warm. No, no! Not in this life!"

"You are quite right! Later! It will be much more convenient when we are spirits. But then
you must come to see me sometime; promise me, and do not forget your promise! I shall be established
somewhere in the Black Forest, high up in the snow, alone in a great house. The storm is raging
and the old timbers and wainscoting are creaking and groaning. I am smoking my pipe on a bench
by the stove and staring into the flame of the burning candle. All of a sudden I hear some
one clapping his hands outside, and as I listen there comes a call, O da casa! O da casa!'

"'Hello!' I say, standing up, 'the Brazilian! He has kept his word. And he is just as courteous
and respectful as ever!' I open the door for you, prepare a fine place for you on the bench,
so that you may warm your tropical astral body, and give you the fur robe to wrap your poor
spiritual feet in. Then you shall have coffee and cigarettes and fruit-cakes and a glass of
genuine cherry brandy--anything you want! Then we will talk Portuguese, long for the Brazilian
sun, and sing, I in a hoarse bass and you in a sweet spiritual tenor,

                       Minha terra tem palmeiras,
                       onde canta o sabia,
                       minha terra tem primores,
                       que eu nunca encontro ca."

He smilingly listened to me, smilingly shook his head and said, "You are an enviable youth!
Every time I think of you I think that. As a child amuses himself at an annual fair, you scamper
through the world, feast your eyes on what you like to look at, take your pleasure in what
you see, and build air-castles out of these materials."

He continued to pluck his tea leaves; I stood silently by and marveled at his words, their
truth and their error.

"Yes, there are such favorites of fortune," he continued. "As children build castles of sand,
demolish them, and build them up again, so you build air-castles. When one of them has occupied
you long enough, you turn your back upon it and build another; this is your pleasure, and you
never tire of it. We others, when at the age of fifteen or sixteen we have come to our senses,
we build a single air-castle: one sees himself as a prosperous farmer--as far as the eye can
reach all the land is his; the other sees himself as a merchant, with a heavy golden chain
on his paunch, standing at his shop-door; the third means to cultivate black roses and incidentally
become a millionaire--and this castle in the air we cherish, and care for, and prop up, and
support as long as we live, and for the most part we do not in the least notice that it has
long since collapsed beyond repair. I have long thought I must tell you this some time, in
order that you might know it and thank God!" He straightened up, looked me in the face, and
nodded to me with kindly seriousness. With a smile I returned his nod.

He continued plucking leaves. In silence I watched him a while longer; for anything that I
could have said in answer was no concern of his.

"Since my bones are as yet somewhat younger than yours," I remarked finally, "I will keep them
fresh, and now take them into the shade."

We separated.

"Every one sees you in a different light from every one else," I said to myself as I walked
along, "and even the wisest fails to see you as you are; for even the humblest human soul is
like the sun, which one can gaze upon only through a dull medium."

Along shady paths I meandered toward the bamboo alley, which was like a grove, in that it formed
a high vaulted way under closely interwoven branches, and its twilight was cool. Here I strode
back and forth, sat down, wandered on again, in physical discomfort and mental instability.
The old man had excited and aroused me; I pondered this and that, I could not stick to any
subject whatever, I hurried from the hundredth to the thousandth thing and took some hurt from
every one.

I sat down again, and again walked back and forth.

All at once I found myself at a cross path; I stopped involuntarily and thought, "I have stood
here before; what is there here?" So it was. Two days before, I had here been struck by the
fact that just above the knot on the bamboo stem there was a broad ring of blue-white hoarfrost,
which blended imperceptibly with the greenish-yellow of the stem. In this fine congealed breath,
I had thought at that time, one ought to write a secret message to one's sweetheart, in dainty
characters, with a feather from a humming-bird's wing! Since I could not find a hummingbird,
I had sharpened the end of a twig of bamboo, and with that had scribbled in the fragrant circlet
the words, "Where art thou, beloved?"

Since then I had not again thought of the matter; but now I sought out the thick stem once
more, and thought I ought to have written a poem on it, began to compose verses, and murmured:

                       A saudade no coração
                       mi e doce como o teu bejo--

then I stood a long time with my head down, trying to formulate the following verses; and finally
I added:

                       vivrei d'esta consolacão,
                       de ti, e se nunca te vejo!

and once more looked for the stem bearing the inscription from the previous visit. I found
it, and was almost terrified when underneath my words, "Where art thou, beloved," I read inscribed
in the dainty hand of a woman, "Here I am."

I was amazed; then I smiled with joy, and my heart beat violently, as on the eve of an adventure.
My Portuguese verses did not fit now, and I meditated a jolly, German answer; but I was too
unskilful in my excitement and could not compose anything with any sense to it. I had to think
too much of the writer. Who was she, and what did she look like?

Finally I took out my dagger, sharpened a twig of bamboo to the finest of points, and after
I had assured myself that I was unobserved, I wrote simply,

                        Whether there or here,
                        Be with me, dear!

Once more I strode back and forth. Then it occurred to me that so long as I remained in the
park I could observe from some hiding-place whether any one read the inscription.

