It was not until the end of the seventeenth century that the manners and characteristics of
this strange race attracted to any considerable degree the attention of philosophers and theorists;
a chasm in human history then seemed about to be filled. Eager to throw light upon the subject,
but too impatient to inquire into the facts necessary for the formation of opinions, the conclusions
formed were often unjust to the native dignity of the Red Indian,[205] and have been proved
erroneous by subsequent and more perfect information. On the other hand, one of the most gifted
but dangerous of modern philosophers would exalt these untutored children of nature to a higher
degree of honor and excellence than civilization and knowledge can confer. He deemed that the
elevation and independence of mind, resulting from the rude simplicity of savage life, is sought
in vain among the members of refined and organized societies.[206]

Every thing tended to render inquiry into the state of the rude tribes of America difficult
and obscure. In the generality of cases they presented characteristics of a native simplicity,
elsewhere unknown; and even in the more favored districts, where a degree of civilization appeared,
it had assumed a form and direction totally different from that of the Old World.[207]

The origin of this mysterious people has been the subject of an immense variety of speculations,
and has involved the question, whether all men are the sons of Adam, or whether the distinctions
of the human race were owing to the several sources from whence its members sprung? The skeptic
supposition that each portion of the globe gave its own original type of man to the human family
at once solves the difficulty of American population; but as both Christianity and philosophy
alike forbid acceptance of this view,[208] it becomes necessary to consider the relative probabilities
in favor of the other different theories which enthusiasm, ingenuity, and research have contributed
to lay before the world.

Without referring to the most sacred and ancient of authorities, we may find existing natural
evidence abundantly sufficient to establish the belief of the common descent of our race. There
are not in the human form differences such as distinguish separate species of the brute creation.
All races of men are nearly of like stature and size, varying only by the accidents of climate
and food favorable or adverse to their full development. The number, shape, and uses of limbs
and extremities are alike, and internal construction is invariably the same. These are circumstances
the least acted upon by situation and temperature, and therefore the surest tests of a particular
species. Color is the most obvious and the principal indication of difference in the human
families, and is evidently influenced to a great extent by the action of the sun,[209] as the
swarthy cheek of the harvest laborer will witness. Under the equator we find the jet black
of the negro; then the olive-colored Moors of the southern shores of the Mediterranean; again,
the bronzed face of the Spaniard and Italian; next, the Frenchman, darker than those who dwell
under the temperate skies of England; and, last, the bleached and pallid visages of the north.
Along the arctic circle, indeed, a dusky tint again appears: that, however, may be fairly attributed
to the scorching power of the sun, constantly over the horizon, through the brief and fiery
summer. The natives remain generally in the open air during this time, fishing, or in the chase;
and the effect of exposure stamps them with a complexion which even the long-continued snows
can not remove. In the rigorous winter season, the people of those dreary countries pass most
of their time in wretched huts or subterranean dwellings, where they heap up large fires to
warm their shivering limbs. The smoke has no proper vent in these ill-constructed abodes; it
fills the confined air, and tends to darken the complexions of those constantly exposed to
its influence.

The difference of color in the human race is doubtless influenced by many causes, modifying
the effect of position with regard to the tropics. The great elevation of a particular district,
its proximity to the sea, the shades of a vast forest, the exhalations from extensive marshes,
all tend to diminish materially the power of a southern sun.[210] On the other hand, intensity
of heat is aggravated by the neighborhood of arid and sandy deserts, or rocky tracts. The action
of long-continued heat creates a more permanent effect than the mere darkening of the outer
skin: it alters the character of those subtile juices that display their color through the
almost transparent covering.[211] We see that, from a constitutional peculiarity in individuals,
the painful variety of the albino is sometimes produced in the hottest countries. Certain internal
diseases, and different medicines, change the beautiful bloom of the young and healthy into
repulsive and unnatural tints. A peculiar secretion of the carbon abounding in the human frame
produces the jet black of the negro's skin, and enables him to bear without inconvenience the
terrible sultriness of his native land.[212] The dark races, inferior in animal and intellectual
powers to the white man, are yet nearly free from the deformities he so often exhibits, perhaps
on account of a less susceptible and delicate structure. The Caucasian or European races, born
and matured under a temperate climate, manifestly enjoy the highest gifts of man. Wherever
they come in contact with their colored brother, he ultimately yields to the irresistible superiority,
and becomes, according to the caprice of their haughty will, the victim, the dependent, or
the slave.[213]

There are other characteristics different from, but generally combined with color, which are
influenced by constitutional varieties. The hair usually harmonizes with the complexion, and,
like it, shows the influence of climate. In cold countries, the natural covering of every animal
becomes rich and soft; the plentiful locks and manly beard of the European show a marked contrast
to the coarse and scanty hair of the inhabitants of tropical countries. The development of
mental power and refined habits of life have also a strong but slow effect upon the outward
form.[214] Certain African nations of a higher intelligence and civilization than their rude
neighbors, show much less of the peculiarities of the negro features. The refined Hindoo displays
a delicate form and expression under his dark complexion. The black color and the negro features
are accidentally not necessarily connected, and it seems to require both climate and inferiority
of intellect to unite them in the same race.

When circumstances of climate or situation have effected peculiar appearances in a nation or
tribe, the results will long survive the causes when people are removed to widely-different
latitudes: a dark color is not easily effaced, even under the influence of moderate temperature
and heightened civilization. For these reasons, there appear many cases where the complexion
of the inhabitants and the climate of the country do not correspond, but the original characteristics
will be found undergoing the process of gradual change, ultimately adapting themselves to their
new country and situation.[215] The marked and peculiar countenances of the once "chosen people"
vary, in color at least, wherever they are seen over the world, although uninfluenced by any
admixture of alien blood. In England the children of Israel and the descendant of the Saxon
are alike of a fair complexion, and on the banks of the Nile the Jew and the Egyptian show
the same swarthy hue.[216]

At first sight this American race would appear to offer evidence against the supposed influence
of climate upon color, as one general form and complexion prevail in all latitudes of the New
World, from the tropics to the frozen regions of the north. Great varieties, however, exist
in the shade of the red or copper[217] color of the Indians. There are two extremes of complexion
among mankind--those of the northern European and the African negro; between these there is
a series of shades, that of the American Indian being about midway. The structure of the New
World, and the circumstances of its inhabitants, may account for the generally equal color
of their skin. The western Indian never becomes black, even when dwelling directly under the
equator. He lives among stupendous mountain ranges, where cool breezes from the snowy heights
sweep through the valleys and over the plains below. The vast rivers springing from under those
lofty peaks inundate a great extent of country, and turn it into swamps, whence perpetual exhalations
arise and lower the temperature. There are no fiery deserts to heat the passing wind and reflect
the rays of the sun; a continual forest, with luxuriant foliage, and a dense underwood, spreads
a pleasant shade over the surface of the earth. America, under the same latitudes, especially
on the eastern coast, is every where colder than the Old World. The nearest approach to a black
complexion is seen in the people of Brazil, a country comparatively low, and immediately under
the equator. The inhabitants of the lofty Mexican table-land are also very dark, and on those
arid plains the sun pours down its scorching rays upon a surface almost devoid of sheltering
vegetation.

The habits of savage life, and the constant exposure to the elements, seem sufficient to cause
a dark tint upon the human skin even in the temperate regions of America, where the cold is
far greater than in the same latitude in Europe. The inhabitants of those immense countries
are badly clothed, imperfectly defended against the weather, miserably housed; wandering in
war or in the chase, exposed for weeks at a time to the mercy of the elements, they soon darken
into the indelible red or copper color of their race. On the northwest coasts, about latitude
50°, in Nootka Sound, and a number of other smaller bays, dwell a people more numerous and
better provided with food and shelter than their eastern neighbors. They are free from a great
part of the toils and hardships of the hunter, and from the vicissitudes of the season. When
cleansed from their filthy and fantastic painting, it appears that their complexion and features
resemble those of the European.[218]

Modern discoveries have to a great extent dispelled the mystery of the Indian origin, and proved
the fallacy of the numerous and ingenious theories formerly advanced with so much pertinacity
and zeal. Since the northwest coasts of America and the northeast of Asia have been explored,
little difficulty remains on this subject. The two continents approach so nearly in that direction
that they are almost within sight of each other, and small boats can safely pass the narrow
strait. Ten degrees further south, the Aleutian and Fox Islands[219] form a continuous chain
between Kamtschatka and the peninsula of Alaska, in such a manner as to leave the passage across
a matter of no difficulty. The rude and hardy Tschutchi, inhabiting the northeast of Asia,
frequently sail from one continent to the other.[220] From the remotest antiquity, this ignorant
people possessed the wonderful secret of the existence of a world hidden from the wisest and
most adventurous of civilized nations. They were unconscious of the value of their vast discovery;
they passed over a stormy strait from one frozen shore to another, as stern and desolate as
that they had left behind, and knew not that they had crossed one of the great boundaries of
earth. When they first entered upon the wilderness of America, probably the most adventurous
pushed down toward the genial regions of the south, and so through the long ages of the past
the stream of population flowed slowly on, wave by wave, to the remotest limits of the east
and south. The Indians resemble the people of northeastern Asia in form and feature more than
any other of the human race. Their population is most dense along the districts nearest to
Asia; and among the Mexicans, whose records of the past deserve credence, there is a constant
tradition that their Aztec and Toultec chiefs came from the northwest. Every where but to the
north, America is surrounded with a vast ocean unbroken by any chain of islands that could
connect it with the Old World. Most probably no living man ever crossed this immense barrier
before the time of Columbus. It is certain that in no part of America have any authentic traces
been found of European civilization; the civilization of America, such as it was, arose, as
it flourished, in the fertile plains of Mexico[221] and in the delightful valleys of Peru;[222]
there, where the bounty of nature supplied an abundance of the necessaries of life, the population
rapidly multiplied, and the arts became objects of cultivation.

There is something almost mysterious in the total difference between the languages of the Old
and New World.[223] All the tongues of civilized nations spring from a few original roots,
somewhat analogous to each other; but it would seem that, among wandering tribes, dispersed
over a vast extent of country, carrying on but little intercourse, and having no written record
or traditionary recital to preserve any fixed standard, language undergoes a complete change
in the course of ages. The great varieties of tongues in America, and their dissimilarity to
each other, tend to confirm this supposition.

In various parts of America, remains are found which place beyond a doubt the ancient existence
of a people more numerous, powerful, and civilized than the present race of Indians; but the
indications of this departed people are not such as to bespeak their having been of very remote
antiquity: the ruined cities of Central America, concealed by the forest growth of centuries,
and the huge mounds of earth[224] in the Valley of the Mississippi and upon the table-lands
of Mexico, their dwellings and mausoleums, although long swept over by the storm of savage
conquest, afford no proofs of their having existed very far back into those dark ages when
the New World was unknown to Europe. The history of these past races of men will probably forever
remain a sealed book, but there is no doubt that a great population once covered those rich
countries which the first English visitors found the wild hunting-grounds for a few savage
tribes.[225] Probably the existing race of Red Men were the conquerors and exterminators of
the feeble but civilized aboriginal nations, and as soon as they possessed the land they split
into separate and hostile communities, waging perpetual war with each other so as constantly
to diminish their numbers.

