Is it not unreasonable to allow that "Infinite wisdom" provided for all our physical wants
and left our spirits with all their demands, like so many children away out in the darkness
without hope, uneasy, restless, always dissatisfied, and ever trying to get into the possession
of the knowledge of the unseen and future, without one ray of mental light shining out from
the heavens upon our relations to perfect our condition and declare the glorious goodness of
an all-wise Creator? Volney says, "Provident nature having endowed the heart of man with inexhaustible
hope, he set about finding happiness in this world, and failing in his efforts, he set out
in his imagination and created a world for himself, where, free from tyrants, he could have
all his wrongs redressed and enjoy unsullied bliss." This is Volney's account of the origin
of religion, the tap-root of the tree. It contains a most wonderful concession, one that Tyndal
made when he said, "There is a place in man's psychological nature for religion." Is there
a place in man's physical nature for bread and meat, for food of every variety that man's soul
desires? Do we attribute all the mercies of physical life to a supreme intelligence? Has that
intelligence created us and left us endowed with "Inexhaustible hope," to be disappointed forever,
and the only result, the "imaginary" creation of the Christian's happy heaven. But Volney makes
another grand concession in the quotation which I have given, and that is the nature of the
Christian's future world in its relations to wrongs as well as tyrants, neither are to exist
there. That the Christian's religion, with its beautiful world, does fill up the soul's demands
is a fact unintentionally conceded by Volney, and known throughout the land in the contentment
and bliss and heroism of the dying Christian. In this hope alone man's spiritual wants are
met. This, with all that pertains to it, is in the revelation that God has made to our race.
How could this be made? I answer, it was made by the spirit of God. "Holy men of old spake
as they were moved upon by the Holy Spirit." This is what we call inspiration. This word is
a translation of "Theopneustos," which is from "Theos," God, "pneuma," spirit, Spirit of God.
Is it reasonable to allow that this revelation could be given by the spirit of God through
holy men? I will let an infidel answer this question. Bolingbroke said, "It is just as easy
to comprehend the operation of the spirit of God upon the mind of a prophet in order to give
his will to us as it is to comprehend the operations of our own spirits upon our physical nature
in order to an expression of our own thoughts." Has such a revelation been made? From all we
know of man, his wants, and the adaptation of means in nature to those wants, we are driven
to the conclusion that it has, presenting the means adapted to our spiritual wants so perfectly
as to enable us to realize fully what Volney declares our very nature, as creatures of hope,
impelled us to create "in our imaginations for ourselves." There is no consistent ground that
any man can occupy between Christianity and Atheism. And if there is no God, "nature," or the
"forces," or whatever lies behind them, to which they belong, as the manifest energies of the
same, call it what you may, has made a very unreasonable, bungling mistake in giving in the
very nature of man's mind an empty vessel that is to be filled only by the false whims of the
imagination of an ever restless and dissatisfied spirit, which, in that case, is to be eternally
disappointed and plunged deeper down by the realization of the fact that all its anxieties
and hopes were only so many misleading demons.

