For a little while they ate fudge and then they sang hymns for another half hour, and had a
prayer. It was a very quiet little meeting. Not much said. Everyone knew how solemn the occasion
was. Everyone felt it might be his last among them. It was as if the brooding Christ had made
Himself felt in every heart. Each boy felt like crying out for some strong arm to lean upon
in this his sore need. Each gave himself with all his heart to the quiet reaching up to God.
It was as if the eating of that fudge had been a solemn sacrament in which their souls were
brought near to God and to the dear ones they might never see on this earth again. If any one
had come to them then and suggested the Philosophy of Nietzsche it would have found little
favor. They knew, here, in the face of death, that the Death of Jesus on the Cross was a soul
satisfying creed. Those who had accepted Him were suddenly taken within the veil where they
saw no longer through a glass darkly, but with a face-to-face sense of His presence. They had
dropped away their self assurance with which they had either conquered or ignored everything
so far in life, and had become as little children, ready to trust in the Everlasting Father,
without whom they had suddenly discovered they could not tread the ways of Death.

Then came the call to march, and with a last prayer the boys filed silently out into the night
and fell into line. A few minutes later the steady tramp of their feet could be heard as they
went down the street that led to the front.

Later in the night, quite near to morning, there came a terrific shock of artillery fire that
heralded a German raid. The fragile army cots rocked like cradles in the hut, dishes rolled
and danced on the shelves and tables, and were dashed to fragments on the floor. Shells wailed
and screamed overhead; and our guns began, until it seemed that all the sounds of the universe
had broken forth. In the midst of it all the gas alarm sounded, the great electric horns screeching
wildly above the babel of sound. The women hurried into their gas masks, a bit flustered perhaps,
but bearing their excitement quietly and helping each other until all were safely breathing
behind their masks.

The next day several times officers came to the hut and begged the women to leave and go to
a place of greater safety, but they decided not to go unless they were ordered away. On June
19th one of them wrote in her diary: "Shells are still flying all about us, but our work is
here and we must stay. God will protect us." Once when things grew quiet for a little while
she went to the edge of the village and watched the shells falling on Boucq, where one of her
friends was stationed, and declared: "It looks awfully bad, almost as bad as it sounds."

The next morning as the firing gradually died away, Salvation Army people hurried up to Raulecourt
from near-by huts to find out how these brave women were, and rejoiced unspeakably that every
one was safe and well.

That night there was another wonderful meeting with the boys who were going to the front, and
after it the weary workers slept soundly the whole night through, quietly and undisturbed,
the first time for a week.

It was a bright, beautiful Sunday morning, June 23, 1918, when a little party of Salvationists
from Raulecourt started down into the trenches. The muddy, dirty, unpleasant trenches! Sometimes
with their two feet firmly planted on the duck-board, sometimes in the mud! Such mud! If you
got both feet on it at once you were sure you were planted and would soon begin to grow!

As soon as they reached the trenches they were told: "Keep your heads down, ladies, the snipers
are all around!" It was an intense moment as they crept into the narrow housings where the
men had to spend so much time. But it was wonderful to watch the glad light that came into
the men's eyes as they saw the women.

"Here's a real, honest-to-goodness American woman in the trenches!" exclaimed a homesick lad
as they came around a turn.

"Yes, your mother couldn't come to-day," said the motherly Salvationist, smiling a greeting,
"so I've come in her place."

"All right!" said he, entering into the game. "This is Broadway and that's Forty-second Street.
Sit down."

Of course there was nothing to sit down on in the trenches. But he hunted about till he found
a chow can and turned it up for a seat, and they had a pleasant talk.

"Just wait," he said. "I'll show you a picture of the dearest little girl a fellow ever married
and the darlingest little kid ever a man was father to!" He fumbled in his breast pocket right
over his heart and brought out two photographs.

"I'd give my right arm to see them this minute, but for all that," he went on, "I wouldn't
leave till we've fought this thing through to Berlin and given them a dose of what they gave
little Belgium!"

They went up and down the trenches, pausing at the entrances to dugouts to smile and talk with
the men. Once, where a grassy ridge hid the trench from the enemy snipers, they were permitted
to peep over, but there was no look of war in the grassy, placid meadow full of flowers that
men called "No Man's Land." It seemed hard to believe, that sunny, flower-starred morning,
that Sin and Hate had the upper hand and Death was abroad stalking near in the sunlight.

It was a twelve-mile walk through the trenches and back to the hut, and when they returned
they found the men were already gathering for the evening meeting.

That night, at the close of a heart-searching talk, eighty-five men arose to their feet in
token that they would turn from the ways of sin and accept Christ as their Saviour, and many
more raised their hands for prayers. One of the women of this party in her three months in
France saw more than five hundred men give themselves to Christ and promise to serve Him the
rest of their lives.

A little Adjutant lassie who was stationed at Boucq went away from the town for a few hours
on Saturday, and when she returned the next day she found the whole place deserted. A big barrage
had been put over in the little, quiet village while she was away and the entire inhabitants
had taken refuge in the General's dugout. Her husband, who had brought her back, insisted that
she should return to the Zone Headquarters at Ligny- en-Barrios, where he was in charge, and
persuaded her to start with him, but when they reached Menil-la-Tour and found that the division
Chaplain was returning to Boucq she persuaded her husband that she must return with the Chaplain
to her post of duty.

That night she and the other girls slept outside the dugout in little tents to leave more room
in the dugout for the French women with their little babies. At half-past three in the morning
the Germans started their shelling once more. After two hours, things quieted down somewhat
and the girls went to the hut and prepared a large urn of coffee and two big batches of hot
biscuits. While they were in the midst of breakfast there was another barrage. All day they
were thus moving backward and forward between the hut and the dugout, not knowing when another
barrage would arrive. The Germans were continually trying to get the chateau where the General
had his headquarters. One shell struck a house where seven boys were quartered, wounding them
all and killing one of them. Things got so bad that the Divisional Headquarters had to leave;
the General sent his car and transferred the girls with all their things to Trondes. This was
back of a hill near Boucq. They arrived at three in the afternoon, put up their stove and began
to bake. By five they were serving cake they had baked. The boys said: "What! Cake already?"
The soldiers put up the hut and had it finished in six hours.

While all this was going on the Salvation Army friends over at Raulecourt had been watching
the shells falling on Boueq, and been much troubled about them.

These were stirring times. No one had leisure to wonder what had become of his brother, for
all were working with all their might to the one great end.

Up north of Beaumont two aviators were caught by the enemy's fire and forced to land close
to the enemy nests. Instead of surrendering the Americans used the guns on their planes and
held off the Germans until darkness fell, when they managed to escape and reach the American
lines. This was only one of many individual feats of heroism that helped to turn the tide of
battle. The courage and determination, one might say the enthusiasm, of the Americans knew
no bounds. It awed and overpowered the enemy by its very eagerness. The Americans were having
all they could do to keep up with the enemy. The artillerymen captured great numbers of enemy
cannon, ammunition, food and other supplies, which the trucks gathered up and carried far to
the front, where they were ready for the doughboys when they arrived. One of the greatest feats
of engineering ever accomplished by the American Army was the bridging of the Meuse, in the
region of Stenay, under terrible shell fire, using in the work of building the pontoons the
Boche boats and materials captured during the fighting at Chateau-Thierry and which had been
brought from Germany for the Kaiser's Paris offensive in July. The Meuse had been flooded until
it was a mile wide, yet there was more than enough material to bridge it.

As the Americans advanced, village after village was set free which had been robbed and pillaged
by the Germans while under their domination. The Yankee trucks as they returned brought the
women and children back from out of the range of shell fire, and they were filled with wonder
as they heard the strange language on the tongues of their rescuers. They knew it was not the
German, but they had many of them never seen an American before. The Germans had told them
that Americans were wild and barbarous people. Yet these men gathered the little hungry children
into their arms and shared their rations with them. There were three dirty, hungry little children,
all under ten years of age, Yvonne, Louisette and Jeane, whose father was a sailor stationed
at Marseilles. Yvonne was only four years of age, and she told the soldiers she had never seen
her father. They climbed into the big truck and sat looking with wonder at the kindly men who
filled their hands with food and asked them many questions. By and by, they comprehended that
these big, smiling, cheerful men were going to take the whole family to their father. What
wonder, what joy shone in their eager young eyes!

Strange and sad and wonderful sights there were to see as the soldiers went forward.

A pioneer unit was rushed ahead with orders to conduct its own campaign and choose its own
front, only so that contact was established with the enemy, and to this unit was attached a
certain little group of Salvation Army people. Three lassies, doing their best to keep pace
with their own people, reached a battered little town about four o'clock in the morning, after
a hard, exciting ride.

The supply train had already put up the tent for them, and they were ordered to unfold their
cots and get to sleep as soon as possible. But instead of obeying orders these indomitable
girls set to work making doughnuts and before nine o'clock in the morning they had made and
were serving two thousand doughnuts, with the accompanying hot chocolate.

The shells were whistling overhead, and the doughboys dropped into nearby shell holes when
they heard them coming, but the lassies paid no heed and made doughnuts all the morning, under
constant bombardment.

Bouconville was a little village between Raulecourt and the trenches. In it there was left
no civilian nor any whole house. Nothing but shot-down houses, dugouts and camouflages, Y.M.C.A.,
Salvation Army and enlisted men.

Dead Man's Curve was between Mandres and Beaumont. The enemy's eye was always upon it and had
its range.

Before the St. Mihiel drive one could go to Bouconville or Raulecourt only at night. As soon
as it was dark the supply outfits on the trucks would be lined up awaiting the word from the
Military Police to go.

Everyone had to travel a hundred yards apart. Only three men would be allowed to go at once,
so dangerous was the trip.

Out of the night would come a voice:

"Halt! Who goes there? Advance and give the countersign."

Every man was regarded as an enemy and spy until he was proven otherwise. And the countersign
had to be given mighty quick, too. So the men were warned when they were sent out to be ready
with the countersign and not to hesitate, for some had been slow to respond and had been promptly
shot. The ride through the night in the dark without lights, without sound, over rough, shell-plowed
roads had plenty of excitement.

Bouconville for seven months could never be entered by day. The dugout wall of the hut was
filled with sandbags to keep it up. It was at Bouconville, in the Salvation Army hut, that
the raids on the enemy were organized, the men were gathered together and instructed, and trench
knives given out; and here was where they weeded out any who were afraid they might sneeze
or cough and so give warning to the enemy.

Not until after the St. Mihiel drive when Montsec was behind the line instead of in front did
they dare enter Bouconville by day.

Passing through Mandres, it was necessary to go to Beaumont, around Dead Man's Curve and then
to Rambucourt, and proceed to Bouconville. Here the Salvation Army had an outpost in a partially
destroyed residence. The hut consisted of the three ground floor rooms, the canteen being placed
in the middle. The sleeping quarters were in a dugout just at the rear of these buildings.
It was in the building adjoining this hut that three men were killed one day by an exploding
shell, and gas alarms were so frequent in the night that it was very difficult for the Salvation
Army people to secure sufficient rest as on the sounding of every gas alarm it was necessary
to rise and put on the gas mask and keep it on until the "alerte" was removed. This always
occurred several times during the night.

It was just outside of Bouconville that the famous doughnut truck experience occurred. The
supply truck, driven by two young Salvation Army men, one a mere boy, was making its rounds
of the huts with supplies and in order to reach Raulecourt, the boy who was driving decided
to take the shortest road, which, by the way, was under complete observation of the Germans
located at Montsec. The truck had already been shelled on its way to Bouconville, several shells
landing at the edge of the road within a few feet of it. They had not noticed the first shell,
for shells were a somewhat common thing, and the old truck made so much noise that they had
not heard it coming, but when the second one fell so close one of the boys said: "Say, they
must be shooting at us!" as though that were something unexpected.

They stepped on the accelerator and the truck shot forward madly and tore into the town with
shells breaking about it. Having escaped thus far they were ready to take another chance on
the short cut to Raulecourt.

They proceeded without mishaps for some distance. Just outside of Bouconville was a large shell
hole in the road and in trying to avoid this the wheels of the truck slipped into the ditch,
and the driver found he was stuck. It was impossible to get out under his own power. While
working with the truck, the Germans began to shell him again. At first the two boys paid little
heed to it, but when more began to come they knew it was time to leave. They threw themselves
into a communicating trench, which was really no more than a ditch, and wiggled their way up
the bank until they were able to drop into the main trenches, where they found safety in a dugout.

The Germans meantime were shelling the truck furiously, the shells dropping all around on either
side, but not actually hitting it. This was about two o'clock in the afternoon.

At Headquarters they were becoming anxious about the non-appearance of the truck and started
out in the touring car to locate it. Commencing at Jouey-les-Cotes they went from there to
Boucq and Raulecourt, which were the last places the truck was to visit. Not hearing of it
at Raulecourt, the search was continued out to Bouconville, again, by a short road. Montsec
was in full view. There were fresh shell holes all along the road since the night before. Things
began to look serious.

A short distance ahead was an army truck, and even as they got abreast of it a shell went over
it exploding about twenty-five feet away, and one hit the side of the road just behind them.
It seemed wise to put on all speed.

But when they reached Bouconville and found that the truck they had passed was the Salvation
Army truck, they were unwilling to leave it to the tender mercies of the enemy as everybody
advised. That truck cost fifty- five hundred dollars, and they did not want to lose it.

As soon as it was dark a detail of soldiers volunteered to go with the Salvation Army officers
to attempt to get it out, but the Germans heard them and started their shelling furiously once
more, so that they had to retreat for a time; but later, they returned and worked all night
trying to jack it up and get a foundation that would permit of hauling it out. Every little
while all night the Germans shelled them. About half-past four in the morning it grew light
enough for the enemy to see, and the top was taken off the truck so that it would not be so
good a mark.

That day they went back to Headquarters and secured permission for an ammunition truck to come
down and give them a tow, as no driver was permitted out on that road without a special permit
from Headquarters. The journey back was filled with perils from gas shells, especially around
Dead Man's Curve, but they escaped unhurt. That night they attached a tow line to the front
of the truck, started the engine quietly, and waited until the assisting truck came along out
of the darkness. They then attached their line without stopping the other truck and with the
aid of its own power the old doughnut truck was jerked out of the ditch at last and sent on
its way. In spite of the many shells for which it had been a target it was uninjured save that
it needed a new top. The knowledge that the truck was stuck in the ditch and was being shelled
aroused great excitement among all the troops in the Toul Sector and it was thereafter an object
of considerable interest. Newspaper correspondents telegraphed reports of it around the world.

In most of the huts and dugouts Salvation Army workers subsist entirely upon Army chow. At
Bouconville the chow was frequently supplemented by fresh fish. The dugout here was very close
to the trenches, less than five minutes' walk. Just behind the trenches to the left was a small
lake. When there was sufficient artillery fire to mask their attack, soldiers would toss a
hand grenade into this lake, thus stunning hundreds of fish which would float to the surface,
where they were gathered in by the sackful. The Salvation Army dugout was never without its
share of the spoils.

Before the soldiers began to think, as they do now, that being detailed to the Salvation Army
hut was a privilege, an Army officer sent one of his soldiers, who seemed to be in danger of
developing a yellow streak, to sweep the hut and light the fires for the lassies. "You are
only fit to wash dishes, and hang on to a woman's skirts," he told the soldier in informing
him that he was detailed. That night the village was bombed. The boy, who was really frightened,
watched the two girls, being too proud to run for shelter while they were so calm. He trembled
and shook while they sat quietly listening to the swish of falling bombs and the crash of anti-
aircraft guns. In spite of his fright, he was so ashamed of his fears that he forced himself
to stand in the street and watch the progress of the raid. The next day he reported to his
Captain that he had vanquished his yellow streak and wanted a chance to demonstrate what he
said. The demonstration was ample. The example of these brave lassies had somehow strengthened
his spirit.

Back of Raulecourt the woods were full of heavy artillery. Raulecourt was the first town back
of the front lines. The men were relieved every eight days and passed through here to other
places to rest.

The military authorities sent word to the Salvation Army hut one day that fifty Frenchmen would
be going through from the trenches at five o'clock in the morning who would have had no opportunity
to get anything to eat.

The Salvation Army people went to work and baked up a lot of biscuits and doughnuts and cakes,
and got hot coffee ready. The Red Cross canteen was better situated to serve the men and had
more conveniences, so they took the things over there, and the Red Cross supplied hot chocolate,
and when the men came they were well served. This is a sample of the spirit of cooperation
which prevailed. One Sunday night they were just starting the evening service when word came
from the military authorities that there were a hundred men coming through the town who were
hungry and ought to be fed. They must be out of the town by nine-thirty as they were going
over the top that night. Could the Salvation Army do anything?

The woman officer who was in charge was perplexed. She had nothing cooked ready to eat, the
fire was out, her detailed helpers all gone, and she was just beginning a meeting and hated
to disappoint the men already gathered, but she told the messenger that if she might have a
couple of soldiers to help her she would do what she could. The soldiers were supplied and
the fire was started. At ten minutes to nine the meeting was closed and the earnest young preacher
went to work making biscuits and chocolate with the help of her two soldier boys. By ten o'clock
all the men were fed and gone. That is the way the Salvation Army does things. They never say
"I can't." They always CAN.

In Raulecourt there were several pro-Germans. The authorities allowed them to stay there to
save the town. The Salvation Army people were warned that there were spies in the town and
that they must on no account give out information. Just before the St. Mihiel drive a special
warning was given, all civilians were ordered to leave town, and a Military Police knocked
at the door and informed the woman in the hut that she must be careful what she said to anybody
with the rank of a second lieutenant, as word had gone out there was a spy dressed in the uniform
of an American second lieutenant.

That night at eleven o'clock the young woman was just about to retire when there came a knock
at the canteen door. She happened to be alone in the building at the time and when she opened
the door and found several strange officers standing outside she was a little frightened. Nor
did it dispel her fears to have them begin to ask questions:

"Madam, how many troops are in this town? Where are they? Where can we get any billets?"

To all these questions she replied that she could not tell or did not know and advised them
to get in touch with the town Major. The visitors grew impatient. Then three more men knocked
at the door, also in uniform, and began to ask questions. When they could get no information
one of them exclaimed indignantly:

"Well, I should like to know what kind of a town this is, anyway? I tried to find out something
from a Military Police outside and he took me for a SPY! Madam, we are from Field Hospital
Number 12, and we want to find a place to rest."

Then the frightened young woman became convinced that her visitors were not spies; all the
same, they were not going to leave her any the wiser for any information she would give.

Several times men would come to the town and find no place to sleep. On such occasions the
Salvation Army hut was turned over to them and they would sleep on the floor.

The St. Mihiel drive came on and the hut was turned over to the hospital. The supplies were
taken to a dugout and the canteen kept up there. Then the military authorities insisted that
the girls should leave town, but the girls refused to go, begging, "Don't drive us away. We
know we shall be needed!" The Staff-Captain came down and took some of the girls away, but
left two in the canteen, and others in the hospital.

It rained for two weeks in Roulecourt. The soldiers slept in little dog tents in the woods.

The meetings held the boys at the throne of God each night, they were the power behind the
doughnut, and the boys recognized it.

"One hesitated to ask them if they wanted prayers because we knew they did," said one sweet
woman back from the front, speaking about the time of the St. Mihiel drive. "We couldn't say
how many knelt at the altar because they all knelt. Some of them would walk five miles to attend
a meeting."

It poured torrents the night of the drive and nearly drowned out the soldiers in their little
tents.

They came into the hut to shake hands and say goodbye to the girls; to leave their little trinklets
and ask for prayers; and they had their meeting as always before a drive.

But this was an even more solemn time than usual, for the boys were going up to a point where
the French had suffered the fearful loss of thirty thousand men trying to hold Mt. Sec for
fifteen minutes. They did not expect to come back. They left sealed packages to be forwarded
if they did not return.

One boy came to one of the Salvation Army men Officers and said: "Pray for me. I have given
my heart to Jesus."

Another, a Sergeant, who had lived a hard life, came to the Salvation Army Adjutant and said:
"When I go back, if I ever go, I'm going to serve the Lord."

After the meeting the girls closed the canteen and on the way to their room they passed a little
sort of shed or barn. The door was standing open and a light streaming out, and there on a
little straw pallet lay a soldier boy rolled up in his blanket reading his Testament. The girls
breathed a prayer for the lad as they passed by and their hearts were lifted up with gladness
to think how many of the American boys, fully two- thirds of them, carried their Testaments
in the pockets over their hearts; yes, and read them, too, quite openly.

Two young Captains came one night to say good-bye to the girls before going up the line. The
girls told them they would be praying for them and the elder of the two, a doctor, said how
much he appreciated that, and then told them how he had promised his wife he would read a chapter
in his Testament every day, and how he had never failed to keep his promise since he left home.

Then up spoke the other man:

"Well, I got converted one night on the road. The shells were falling pretty thick and I thought
I would never reach my destination and I just promised the Lord if He would let me get safely
there I would never fail to read a chapter, and I never have failed yet!" This young man seemed
to think that--the whole plan of redemption was comprised in reading his Bible, but if he kept
his promise the Spirit would guide him.

On the way back to the hut one morning the girls picked marguerites and forget-me-nots and
put them in a vase on the table in the hut, making it look like a little oasis in a desert,
and no doubt, many a soldier looked long at those blossoms who never thought he cared about
flowers before.

Within thirty-six hours after the first gun was fired in the St. Mihiel drive seven Salvation
Army huts were established on the territory.

Three days before the drive opened twenty Salvation Army girls reached Raulecourt, which was
a little village half a mile from Montsec. They had been travelling for hours and hours and
were very weary.

The Salvation Army hut had been turned over to the hospital, so they found another old building.

That night there was a gas alarm sounded and everybody came running out with their gas masks
on. The officer who had them in charge was much worried about his lassies because some of them
had a great deal of hair, and he was afraid that the heavy coils at the back of their heads
would prevent the masks from fitting tightly and let in the deadly gas, but the lassies were
level-headed girls, and they came calmly out with their masks on tight and their hair in long
braids down their backs, much to the relief of their officer.

It had been raining for days and the men were wet to the skin, and many of them had no way
to get dry except to roll up in their blankets and let the heat of their body dry their clothes
while they slept. It was a great comfort to have the Salvation Army hut where they could go
and get warm and dry once in awhile.

The night of the St. Mihiel drive was the blackest night ever seen. It was so dark that one
could positively see nothing a foot ahead of him. The Salvation Army lassies stood in the door
of the canteen and listened. All day long the heavy artillery had been going by, and now that
night had come there was a sound of feet, tramping, tramping, thousands of feet, through the
mud and slush as the soldiers went to the front. In groups they were singing softly as they
went by. The first bunch were singing "Mother Machree."

  There's a spot in me heart that no colleen may own,
  There's a depth in me soul never sounded or known;
  There's a place in me memory, me life, that you fill,
  No other can take it, no one ever will;
  Sure, I love the dear silver that shines in your hair,
  And the brow that's all furrowed and wrinkled with care.
  I kiss the dear fingers, so toil-worn for me;
    O, God bless you and keep you!
      Mother Machree!

The simple pathos of the voices, many of them tramping forward to their death, and thinking
of mother, brought the tears to the eyes of the girls who had been mothers and sisters, as
well as they could, to these boys during the days of their waiting.

Then the song would die slowly away and another group would come by singing: "Tell mother I'll
be there!" Always the thought of mother.

The girls went and lay down on their cots and tried to sleep, praying in their hearts for the
boys who had gone forth to fight. But they could not sleep. It was as though they had all the
burden of all the mothers and wives and sisters of those boys upon them, as they lay there,
the only women within miles, the only women so close to the lines.

About half-past one a big naval gun went off. It was as though all the noises of the earth
were let loose about them. They could lie still no longer. They got up, put on their rain-coats,
rubber boots, steel helmets, took their gas masks and went out in the fields where they could
see. Soon the barrage was started. Darkness took on a rosy hue from shells bursting. First
a shell fell on Montsec. Then one landed in the ammunition dump just back of it and blew it
up, making it look like a huge crater of a volcano. It seemed as if the universe were on fire.
The noise was terrific. The whole heavens were lit up from end to end. The beauty and the horror
of it were indescribable.

At five o'clock they went sadly back to the hut.

The hospital tents had been put up in the dark and now stood ready for the wounded who were
expected momentarily. The girls took off their rain-coats and reported for duty. It was expected
there would be many wounded. The minutes passed and still no wounded arrived. Day broke and
only a few wounded men had been brought in. It was reported that the roads were so bad that
the ambulances were slow in getting there. With sad hearts the workers waited, but the hours
passed and still only a straggling few arrived, and most of those were merely sick from explosives.
There were almost no wounded! Only ninety in all.

Then at last there came one bearing a message. There were no wounded! The Germans had been
taken so by surprise, the victory had been so complete at that point, that the boys had simply
leaped over all barriers and gone on to pursue the enemy. Quickly packing up seven outfits
a little company of workers started after their divisions on trucks over ground that twenty-four
hours before had been occupied by the Germans, on roads that were checkered with many shell
holes which American road makers were busily filling up and bridging as they passed.

One of the Salvation Army truck drivers asked a negro road mender what he thought of his job.
He looked up with a pearly smile and a gleam of his eyes and replied: "Boss, I'se doin' mah
best to make de world safe foh Democrats!"

They had to stop frequently to remove the bodies of dead horses from the way so recently had
that place been shelled. They passed through grim skeletons of villages shattered and torn
by shell fire; between tangles of rusty barbed wire that marked the front line trenches. Then
on into territory that had long been held by the Huns. More than half of the villages they
passed were partially burned by the retreating enemy. All along the way the pitiful villagers,
free at last, came out to greet them with shouts of welcome, calling "Bonnes Americaines! Bonnes
Americaines!" Some flung their arms about the Salvation Army lassies in their joy. Some of
the villagers had not even known that the Americans were in the war until they saw them.

In the village of Nonsard a little way beyond Mt. Sec they found a building that twenty-four
hours before had been a German canteen. Above the entrance was the sign "KAMERAD, tritt' ein."

The Salvation Army people stepped in and took possession, finding everything ready for their
use. They even found a lard can full of lard and after a chemist had analyzed it to make sure
it was not poisoned they fried doughnuts with it. In one wall was a great shell hole, and the
village was still under shell fire as they unloaded their truck and got to work. One lassie
set the water to heat for hot chocolate, while another requisitioned a soldier to knock the
head off a barrel of flour and was soon up to her elbows mixing the dough for doughnuts. Before
the first doughnut was out of the hot fat several hundred soldiers were waiting in long, patient,
ever-growing lines for free doughnuts and chocolate. These things were always served free after
the men had been over the top.

The lassies had had no sleep for thirty-six hours, but they never thought of stopping until
everybody was served. In that one day their three tons of supplies entirely gave out.

The Red Cross was there with their rolling kitchen. They had plenty of bread but nothing to
put on it. The Salvation Army had no stove on which to cook anything, but they had quantities
of jam and potted meats. They turned over ten cases of jam, some of the cases containing as
many as four hundred small jars, to the Red Cross, who served it on hot biscuits. Some one
put up a sign: "THIS JAM FURNISHED BY THE SALVATION ARMY!" and the soldiers passed the word
along the line: "The finest sandwich in the world, Red Cross and Salvation Army!" The first
day two Salvation Army girls served more than ten thousand soldiers in their canteen. They
did not even stop to eat. The Red Cross brought them over hot chocolate as they worked.

Evening brought enemy airplanes, but the lassies did not stop for that and soon their own aerial
forces drove the enemy back.

That night the girls slept in a dirty German dugout, and they did not dare to clean up the
place, or even so much as to move any of the debris of papers and old tin and pasteboard cracker
boxes, or cans that were strewn around the place until the engineer experts came to examine
things, lest it might be mined and everything be blown up. The girls set up their cots in the
clearest place they could find, and went to sleep. One of the women, however, who had just
arrived, had lost her cot, and being very weary crawled into a sort of berth dug by the Germans
in the wall, where some German had slept. She found out from bitter experience what cooties
are like.

The next morning they were hard at work again as early as seven o'clock. Two long lines of
soldiers were already patiently waiting to be served. The girls wondered whether they might
not have been there all night. This continued all day long.

"We had to keep on a perpetual grin," said one of the lassies, "so that each soldier would
think he had a smile all his own. We always gave everything with a smile." Yet they were not
smiles of coquetry. One had but to see the beautiful earnest faces of those girls to know that
nothing unholy or selfish entered into their service. It was more like the smile that an angel
might give.

Here is one of the many popular songs that have been written on the subject which shows how
the soldiers felt:

  SALVATION LASSIE OF MINE.

  "They say it's in Heaven that all angels dwell,
    But I've come to learn they're on earth just as well;
  And how would I know that the like could be so,
    If I hadn't found one down here below?

  CHORUS.

  A sweet little Angel that went o'er the sea,
    With the emblem of God in her hand;
  A wonderful Angel who brought there to me
    The sweet of a war-furrowed land.
  The crown on her head was a ribbon of red,
    A symbol of all that's divine;
  Though she called each a brother she's more like a mother,
    Salvation Lassie of Mine.

  Perhaps in the future I'll meet her again,
    In that world where no one knows sorrow or pain;
  And when that time comes and the last word is said,
    Then place on my bosom her band of red."

                        By "Jack" Caddigan and "Chick" Stoy.

That day a shell fell on the dugout where they had slept the night before, and a little later
one dropped next door to the canteen; another took seven men from the signal corps right in
the street near by, and the girls were ordered out of the village because it was no longer
safe for them.

One of the boys had been up on a pole putting up wires for the signal corps. These boys often
had to work as now under shell fire in daytime because it was necessary to have telephone connections
complete at once. A shell struck him as he worked and he fell in front of the canteen. They
had just carried him away to the ambulance when his chum and comrade came running up. A pool
of blood lay on the floor in front of the canteen, and he stood and gazed with anguish in his
face. Suddenly he stooped and patted the blood tenderly murmuring, "My Buddy! My Buddy!" Then
like a flash he was off, up the pole where his comrade had been killed to finish his work.
That is the kind of brave boys these girls were serving.

IX.

The Argonne Drive

That night they slept in the woods on litters, and the next day they went on farther into the
woods, twelve kilometres beyond what had been German front.

Here they found a whole little village of German dugouts in the form of log cabin bungalows
in the woods. It was a beautifully laid out little village, each bungalow complete, with running
water and electric lights and all conveniences. There were a dance hall, a billiard room, and
several pianos in the woods. There were also fine vegetable gardens and rabbit hutches full
of rabbits, for the Germans had been obliged to leave too hastily to take anything with them.

The boys were hungry, some of them half starved for something different from the hard fare
they could take with them over the top, and they made rabbit stews and cooked the vegetables
and had a fine time.

The girls up at the front had no time for making doughnuts, so the girls back of the lines
made 8000 doughnuts and sent them up by trucks for distribution. They also distributed oranges
to the soldiers.

News came to the girls after they had been for a week in Nonsard that they were to make a long
move.

Back to Verdun they went and stopped just long enough to look at the city. They were much impressed
with St. Margaret's school for young ladies, and a wonderful old cathedral standing on the
hill with a wall surrounding it. Just the face of the building was left, all the rest shot
away, and through the concrete walls were holes, with guns bristling from every one.

They did not linger long for duty called them forward on their journey. At dusk they stopped
in a little village, bought some stuff, and asked a French woman to cook it for them. They
inquired for a place in which to wash and were given a bar of soap and directed to the village
pump up the street. After supper they went on their way to Benoitvaux. Here they found difficulty
in getting quarters, but at last an old French woman agreed to let them sleep in her kitchen
and for a couple of days they were quartered with her. The word went forth that there were
two American girls there and people were most curious to see them. One afternoon two French
soldiers came to the kitchen to visit them. It was raining, as usual, and the girls had stayed
in because there was really nothing to call them out. The soldiers sat for some time talking.
They had heard that America was a wild place with beaucoup Indians who wore scalps in their
belts, and they wanted to know if the girls were not afraid. It was a bit difficult conversing,
but the girls got out their French dictionary and managed to convey a little idea of the true
America to the strangers. At last one of the soldiers in quite a matter of fact tone informed
one of the girls that he was pleased with her and loved her very much. This put a hasty close
to the conversation, the lassie informing him with much dignity that men did not talk in that
way to girls they had just met in America and that she did not like it. Whereupon the girls
withdrew to the other end of the kitchen and turned their backs on their callers, busying themselves
with some reading, and the crest-fallen gallants presently left.

They only had a canteen here one day when they were called to go on to Neuvilly.

When the offensive was extended to the Argonne the Salvation Army followed along, keeping in
touch with the troops so that they felt that the Salvation Army was ever with them, sharing
their hardships and dangers, and always ready to serve them.

Just before a drive, close to the front, there are always blockades of trucks going either way.

The Salvation Army truck filled with the workers on their way to Neuvilly one dark night was
caught in such a blockade. They crawled along making only about a mile an hour and stopping
every few minutes until there was a chance to go on again. At last the wait grew longer and
longer, the mud grew deeper, and the truck was having such a hard time that the little company
of travellers decided to abandon it to the side of the road till morning and get out and walk
to Neuvilly. There was a field hospital there and they felt sure they could be of use; and
anyway, it was better than sitting in the truck all night. They were then about eight kilometers
from the front. So they all got off and walked. But when they reached the place, found the
hospital, and essayed to go in, the mud was so deep that they were stuck and unable to move
forward. Some soldiers had to rescue them and carry them to the hospital on litters.

Their help was accepted gladly, and they went to work at once. There were many shell-shocked
boys coming in who needed soothing and comforting, and a woman's hand so near the front was
gratefully appreciated.

When at last there was a lull in the stream of wounded men the girls went to find a place to
sleep for a little while. It was early morning, and sad sights met their eyes as they hurried
down what had once been a pleasant village street. Destruction and desolation everywhere. The
house that had been selected for a Salvation Army canteen was nearly all gone. One end was
comparatively intact, with the floor still remaining, and this was to be for the canteen. The
rest of the building was a series of shell holes surrounding a cellar from which the floor
had been shot away.

The women reconnoitred and finally decided to unfold their cots and try to get a wink of sleep
down in that cellar. It did not take them long to get settled. The cots were brought down and
placed quickly among the fallen rafters, stone and tiling. Part of the walls that were standing
leaned in at a perilous slant, threatening to fall at the slightest wind, but the lassies took
off their shoes, rolled up in their blankets, and were at once oblivious to all about them,
for they had been travelling all the day before and had worked hard all night.

One hour later, still early in the morning, they were awakened by the arrival of the truck
and the thumping of boxes, tables and supplies as the Salvation Army truck drivers unloaded
and set up the paraphernalia of the canteen. The girls opened their eyes and looked about them,
and there all around the building were American soldiers, a head in every shell hole, watching
them sleep. There was something thrilling in the silent audience looking down with holy eyes--yes,
I said holy eyes!--for whatever the American soldier may be in his daily life he had nothing
in his eyes but holy reverence for these women of God who were working night and day for him.
There was something touching, too, in their attitude, for perhaps each one was thinking of
his mother or sister at home as he looked down on these weary girls, rolled up in the brown
blankets, with their neat little brown shoes in couples under their cots, nothing visible above
the blankets but their pretty rumpled brown hair.

The women did not waste much more time in sleeping. They arose at once and got busy. There
were five tables in the canteen above and already from each one there stretched a long line
of men waiting silently, patiently for the time to arrive when there would be something good
to eat. The girls had no more sleep that day, and there simply was no seclusion to be had anywhere.
Everything was shell-riddled.

When night came on the question of beds arose again. The cellar seemed hardly possible, and
the military officers considered the question.

Across the road from the most ruined end of the canteen building stood an old church. All of
its north wall was gone save a supporting column in the middle, all the north roof gone. There
were holes in all the other walls, and all the windows were gone. The floor was covered with
debris and wreckage. It had been used all day for an evacuation hospital.

Just over the altar was a wonderful picture of the Christ ascending to heaven. It was still
uninjured save for a shot through the heart.

The military officer stood on the steps of this ruined church, and, looking around in perplexity,
remarked:

"Well, I guess this is the wholest place in town." Then stepping inside he glanced about and
pointed:

"And this is the most secluded spot here!"

The seclusion was a pillar! But the girls were glad to get even that for there was no other
place, and they were very weary. So they set up their little cots, and prepared to roll themselves
in their blankets for a well- earned rest.

The boys had built a small bonfire on the stone floor against a piece of one wall that was
still standing, and now they sent a deputation to know if the girls would bring their guitars
over and have a little music. The boys, of course, had no idea that the girls had not slept
for more than twenty-four hours, and the girls never told them. They never even cast one wistful
glance toward their waiting cots, but smilingly assented, and went and got their instruments.

Beneath the picture of the Christ, in front of the altar a few men were at work in an improvised
office with four candles burning around them. In the rear of the church Lt.-Col. Frederick
R. Fitzpatrick of the One Hundred and Tenth Ammunition Train had his office, and there another
candle was burning. Some wounded men lay on stretchers in the shadowed northwest corner, and
around the little fire the five Salvation Army lassies sat among two hundred soldiers. They
sang at first the popular songs that everybody knew: "The Long, Long Trail," "Keep the Home
Fires Burning," "Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag and Smile! Smile! Smile!" and "Keep
Your Head Down, Fritzie Boy!"

By and by some one called for a hymn, and then other hymns followed: "Jesus Lover of My Soul,"
"When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder," and, as always, the old favorite, "Tell Mother I'll Be There!"

They sang for at least an hour and a half, and then they did not want to stop. Oh, but it was
a great sound that rolled through the old broken walls of the church and floated out into the
night! One of the lassies said she would not change crowds with the biggest choir in New York.

Then they asked the girls to sing and the room was very still as two sweet voices thrilled
out in a tender melody, speaking every word distinctly:

  Beautiful Jesus, Bright Star of earth!
  Loving and tender from moment of birth,
  Beautiful Jesus, though lowly Thy lot,
  Born in a manger, so rude was Thy cot!

  Beautiful Jesus, gentle and mild,
  Light for the sinner in ways dark and wild,
  Beautiful Jesus, O save such just now,
  As at Thy feet they in penitence bow!

  Beautiful Christ! Beautiful Christ!
  Fairest of thousands and Pearl of great price!
  Beautiful Christ! Beautiful Christ!
  Gladly we welcome Thee, Beautiful Christ!

Before they had finished many eyes had turned instinctively toward the picture in the weirdly
flickering light.

Then the young Captain-lassie asked her sister to read the Ninety-first Psalm, "He that dwelleth
in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty," and she
told them that was a promise for those who trusted in God, and she wished they would think
about it while they were going to sleep.

"This evening has made me think so much of home," she said thoughtfully, drooping her lashes
and then raising them with a sweeping glance that included the whole group, while the firelight
flickered up and lit her lovely serious face, and touched her hair with lights of gold, "I
suppose it has made every one else feel that way," she went on; "I mean especially the evenings
at home when the family gathered in the parlor, with one at the piano and brothers with their
horns, and the rest with some kind of instrument, and we had a good 'sing;' and afterward father
took the Bible and read the evening chapter, and then we had family prayers and kissed Mamma
and Papa good night and went to bed. I shouldn't wonder if many of you used to have homes like
that?"

The lassie raised her eyes again and looked on them. Many of the men nodded. It was beautiful
to see the look that came into their faces at these recollections.

"And you used to have family prayers, too, didn't you?" she asked eagerly.

They nodded once more but some of them turned their faces away from the light quickly and brushed
the back of their hands across their eyes.

"To-night has been a family gathering," she went on, "We girls are little sisters to all you
big brothers, and we have had a delightful time with just the family, and the evening chapter
has been read, and now I think it would not be complete if we did not have the family prayers
before we separate and go to sleep."

Down went the heads in response, with reverent mien, and the place was very still while the
lassie prayed. Afterward the boys joined their gruff voices, husky now with emotion, into the
universal prayer with which she closed: "Our Father which are in heaven----"

They were all sorts and conditions of men gathered around the little fire in that old shell-torn
church in Neuvilly that night. To quote from a letter written by a military officer, Lt-Col.
Frederick R. Fitzpatrick, to his wife:

 "There was the lad who was willing but not strong enough for field work,
who was in the rear with the office; the walking wounded who had stopped
for something to eat; the big, strong mule skinner who could throw a mule
down or lift a case of ammunition, who was rough in appearance and speech
and who would deny that the moisture in his eye was anything but the
effects of the cold. There were the men who had been facing death a
thousand times an hour for the last three days, who had not had a wash or
a chance to take off their shoes and had been lying in mud in shell holes
--men who looked as though they were chilled through and through; men on
their way to the front, well knowing all the hardships and dangers which
were ahead of them, but who were worried only about the delay in the
traffic; doctors who had been working for three days without rest; men off
ammunition and ration trucks, who had been at the wheel so long that they
had forgotten whether it was three or four days and nights; wounded on
their stretchers enjoying a smoke. And as I stepped in the door there were
the feminine voices singing the good old tunes we all know so well, and
not a sound in the church but as an accompaniment the distant booming of
big guns, the rattle of small arms, the whirl of air craft, the passing of
the ever-present column of trucks with rations and ammunition going up,
and the wounded coming back; the shouted directions of the traffic police,
the sound of the ammunition dump just outside the door and the rattle of
the kitchens which surround the church, and which are working twenty-four
hours a day.

There was the crowd of men, each uncovered, giving absolute undivided attention to the good,
brave girls who were not making a meeting of it; it was just a meeting which grew--men who
in their minds were back with mother and sister. The girls sang the good old songs, and then
one of them offered a short prayer, in which all the men joined in spirit, and as I tip-toed
out of the church it seemed to me that the four candles at the altar did not give all the light
that was shown on the picture of Christ our Saviour. Every man in the building that night was
in the very presence of God. It was not a religious meeting; it was a meeting full of religion.
And it was a picture that will ever stand fresh in my memory and which will be an inspiration
in time of doubt. There was nothing there but the real things, absolutely no sham of any kind.
Oh, it was wonderful! I hope you can get just a little idea of what it was. I wish you would
keep this letter. I want to be able to read it in future years."

In what remained of another village not far distant from Neuvilly, the lassies had a tent erected.
The rain was endless--a driving drizzle which quickly soaked through everything but the staunchest
raincoats in a very few moments. The ground was so thickly covered by shell craters that they
could find no clear space wide enough for the tent. It so happened that almost in the centre
of the tent there was a big shell crater. In this the girls lighted a fire. All through the
night, and through nights to follow, wounded men limping back through the rain and mud to the
dressing stations came in to warm themselves around the fire in the shell hole, and to drink
of the coffee prepared by the girls. As they sat around the blazing wood, the fire cast strange
shadows on the bleached brown canvas of the tent. In spite of their wounds, they were very
cheerful,  singing as lightly as though they were safe at home.

Everybody had worked hard at Neuvilly, but they felt they must get to their own outfit as soon
as possible at the Field Hospital up in Cheppy where the wounded were coming in droves and
the boys were pouring in from the front half-starved, having been fighting all night with nothing
to eat except reserve rations. Some had been longer with only such rations as they took from
their dead comrades. The need was most urgent, but the puzzle was how to get there. The roads
had been shelled and ploughed by explosives until there was no possible semblance of a way,
and there were no conveyances to be had. The Zone Major had gone back for supplies, telling
the girls to get the first conveyance possible going up the road. That was enough for the girls.
"We've got to get there" they said, and when they said that one knew they would. They searched
diligently and at last found a way. One girl rode on a reel cart, one on a mule team and one
went with an old wagon. They went over roads that had to be made ahead of them by the engineers,
and late in the night, bruised and sore from head to foot, they arrived at their destination.

The next morning they reported at the hospital for work and the Major in charge said: "I never
was so glad to see anybody in my life!"

They went straight to work and served coffee and sandwiches to the poor half-starved men. The
Red Cross men were there, also, with sandwiches, hot chocolate and candy.

The wounded men continued to pour in, later to be evacuated to the base hospital; they kept
coming and coming, a thousand men where two hundred had been expected. There was plenty to
be done. The girls were put in charge of different wards. They were under shell fire continually,
but they were too busy to think of that as they hurried about ministering to the brave soldiers,
who gave never a groan from their white lips no matter what they suffered.

The girls worked about eighteen hours a day, and slept from about one or two at night to five
or six in the morning. The hospital was in front of the artillery and every shell that went
over to Germany passed over their heads. When they had been there five days under continual
shell fire from the enemy the General gave orders that they must leave, that it was no fit
place for women so near to the front.

When the Salvation Army Zone Major brought this order to the girls rebellion shone in their
eyes and they declared they would not leave! They knew they were needed there, and there they
would stay! The Zone Major surveyed them with intense satisfaction. He turned on his heel and
went back to the General:

"General," he said, with a twinkle, "my girls say they won't go."

The General's face softened, and the twinkle flashed across to his eyes, with something like
a tear behind its fire. Somehow he didn't look like a Commanding Officer who had just been
defied. A wonderful light broke over his face and he said:

"Well, if the Salvation Army wants to stay let them stay!" And so they stayed.

It was in a German-dug cave that they had their headquarters, cut out of the side of a hill
and opening into the hospital yard. It was a work of art, that cave. There was a passage-way
a hundred feet long with avenues each side and places for cots, room enough to accommodate
a hundred men.

The German airplanes came in droves. When the bugle sounded every one must get under cover.
There must be nobody in sight for the Germans were out to get individuals, and even one person
was not too insignificant for them to waste their ammunition upon. They had a mistaken idea,
perhaps, that this sort of thing destroyed our morale. The tents, of course, were no protection
against shells and bombs, and presently the Boche began to shell the town in good earnest,
especially at night. Gas alarms, also, would sound out in the middle of the night and everybody
would have to rush out and put on their gas masks. They would not last long at a time, of course,
but it broke up any rest that might have been had, and it was only too evident that the enemy
was trying to get the range on the hospital.

One morning, standing by the window making cocoa for the boys, one of the lassies saw an eight-inch
shell land between the hospital tents, ten feet in front of the window, and only five feet
from the door of the place where the severely wounded were lying. These shells always kill
at two hundred feet. All that saved them was that the shell buried itself deep in the soft
earth and was a dud.

The shells were coming every twenty minutes and there was no time to lose for now the enemy
had their range. At once all hands got busy and began to evacuate the wounded men into the
Salvation Army cave. The cave would accommodate seventy men, but they managed to get a hundred
men inside, most of them on litters. They were all safe and the girls heard the whistle of
the next shell and made haste toward safety themselves. But someone had carelessly dropped
a whole outfit of blankets and things across the passageway of the dugout and the first woman
to enter fell across it, shutting out the other two. Before anything could be done the next
shell struck the doorway, partly burying the fallen young woman. Inside the dugout rocks came
down on some of the men on litters, and anxious hands extricated the lassie from the debris
that had fallen upon her, and lifted her tenderly. She was pretty badly bruised and lamed,
besides being wounded on her leg, but the brave young woman would not claim her wound, nor
let it become known to the military authorities lest they would forbid the girls to stay at
the front any longer. So for three weeks she patiently limped about and worked with the rest,
quietly bearing her pain, and would not go to the hospital. One lassie outside was struck on
the helmet by a piece of falling rock. If she had not had on her helmet she would have been killed.

The shelling continued for six hours.

The hospital was all the time filled with wounded men and there was plenty to be done twenty-four
hours out of every day. The women moved about among the men as if they were their own brothers.

A poor shell-shocked boy lay on his cot talking wildly in delirium, living over the battle
again, charging his men, ordering them to advance.

"Company H. Advance! See that hill over there? It's full of Germans, but we've got to take it!"

Then he turned over and began to sob and cry, "Oh God! Oh God!"

A lassie went to him and soothed him, talking to him gently about home, asking him questions
about his mother, until he grew calm and began to answer her, and rested back quite rationally.
The stretcher-bearers came to take him to another hospital, and he started up, put out his
hand and cried: "Oh, nurse! I've got to get back to my men! I'm the only one left!"

Thus the heart-breaking scenes were multiplied.

One boy came back to the hospital in the Argonne badly wounded. He called the lassie to him
one day as she passed through the ward, and motioned her to lean down so he could talk to her.
He said he knew he was hard hit and he wanted to tell her something.

"I was wounded, lying on the ground over there in No Man's Land," he went on. "It was all dark
and I was waiting for someone to come along and help me. I thought it was all up with me and
while I was lying there I felt something. I can't explain it, but I knew it was there and I
saw my mother and I prayed. Then my Buddy came along and I asked him if he could baptize me.
He said he wasn't very good himself but he guessed the heavenly Father would understand. So
he stooped down and got some muddy water out of a shell hole close by and put it on my forehead,
and prayed; and now I know it's all right. I wanted you to know."

Often the boys, just before they went over the top, would come to these girls and say:

"We're going up there, now. You pray for us, won't you?"

One day some boys came to the hut when there were not many about and asked the girls if they
might talk with them. These boys were going over the top that night.

"We fellows want to ask you something," they said. "Some of the chaplains have been telling
us that if we go over there and die for liberty that it'll be all right with us afterward.
But we don't believe that dope and we want to know the truth. Do you mean to tell me that if
a man has lived like the devil he's going to be saved just because he got killed fighting?
Why, some of us fellows didn't even go of our own accord. We were drafted. And do you mean
to tell me that counts just the same? We want to know the truth!"

And then the girls had their opportunity to point the way to Jesus and speak of repentance,
salvation from sin, and faith in the Saviour of the world.

A lassie was stooping over one young boy lying on a cot, washing his face and trying to make
him more comfortable, and she noticed a hole in his breast pocket. Stooping closer she examined
it and found it was a piece of high explosive shell that had gone through the cloth of his
pocket and was embedded in his Testament, which he, like many of the boys, always kept in his
breast pocket.

Another boy lay on a cot biting his lips to bear the agony of pain, and she asked him what
was the matter, was the wound in his leg so bad? He nodded without opening his eyes. She went
to ask the doctor if the boy couldn't have some morphine to dull the pain. The Sergeant in
charge came over and looked at him, examined the bandage on the boy's leg and then exclaimed:
"Who bandaged this leg?"

"I did" said the boy weakly, "I did the best I could."

The poor fellow had bandaged his own leg and then walked to the hospital. The bandage had looked
all right and no one had examined it until then, but the Sergeant found that it was so tight
that it had stopped the circulation. He took off the bandage and made him comfortable, and
the agony left him. In a little while the Salvation Army lassie passed that way again and found
the boy with a little book open, reading.

"What is it?" she asked, looking at the book.

"My Testament," he answered with a smile.

"Are you a Christian?"

"Oh, yes," he said with another smile that meant volumes.

It grew dark in the tent for they dared not have lights on account of the enemy always watching,
but stooping near a little later she could see that his lips were murmuring in prayer. There
was an angelic smile on his white, dead face in the morning when they came to take him away.

There was a funeral every day in that place. A hundred boys were buried that week. Always the
girls sang at the graves, and prayed. There would be just the grave digger, a few people, and
some of the boys. Off to one side the Germans were buried. When the simple services over our
own dead were complete one of the girls would say: "Now, friends, let us go and say a prayer
beside our enemy's graves. They are some mother's boys, and some woman is waiting for them
to come home!"

And then the prayers would be said once more, and another song sung.

Those were solemn, sorrowful times, death and destruction on every side. The fighting was everywhere.
United States anti-aircraft guns firing at German planes; Germans firing at us; air fights
in the sky above.

And in the midst of it all the boys had meetings every night on log piles out in the open.
These meetings would begin with popular songs, but the boys would soon ask for the hymns and
the meetings would work themselves out without any apparent leading up to it. The boys wanted
it. They wanted to hear about religious things. They hungered for it. So they were held at
the throne of God each night by the wonderful men and girls who had learned to know human hearts,
and had attained such skill in leading them to the Christ for whom they lived.

It was not alone the doughnut that bound the hearts of the boys to the Salvation Army in France,
it was what was behind the doughnut; and here, in these wonderful God-led meetings they found
the secret of it all. Many of them came and told the girls they did not believe in the so-called
"trench religion" and wanted to know the truth from them. And those girls told them the way
of eternal life in a simple, beautiful way, not mincing matters, nor ignoring their sins and
unworthiness, but pointing the way to the Christ who died to save them from sin, and who even
now was waiting in silent Presence to offer them Himself. Great numbers of the men accepted
Christ, and pledged themselves to live or die for Him whatever came to them.

How close the Salvation Army people had grown to the hearts and lives of the men was shown
by the fact that when they came back from the fight they would always come to them as if they
had come to report at home:

"We've escaped!" they would say. "We don't know how it is, but we think it's because you girls
were praying for us, and the folks at home were praying, too!"

There were three cardinal principles which were deemed necessary to success in this work. The
first and most important depended upon winning the confidence of the boys. This was a prime
requisite in any work with the boys, especially by a religious organization.

The first quality looked for in a person professing religion is always consistency. It was
felt that if the boys saw that the Salvation Army was consistent, that it stood only for those
things in France which it was known to stand for in the United States, that the first step
would be established in winning the confidence of the boy. It was therefore determined that
the Salvation Army would not, under any circumstances, compromise, and that it should stand
out in its religious work and adhere to its teachings as firmly and as vigorously as it was
known to do at home.

A stand upon the tobacco question was, therefore, highly important. Other organizations were
encouraging the use of tobacco but those who had come in contact with the Salvation Army at
home knew that it had always discouraged its use, and although the officers had to go against
the judgment of many high military authorities who thought they should handle it, they decided
that the Salvation Army would not handle tobacco and that no one wearing its uniform should
use it. The consistency of the Salvation Army and the careful conduct of its workers won the
esteem of the boys.

The second requisite was that the Salvation Army should be willing to share their hardships.
To accomplish this, it was made a rule that Salvation Army workers should not mess with the
officers but should draw their rations at the soldiers' mess, also that they should not associate
with the officers more than was absolutely necessary and that in the huts. It was neither possible
nor desirable that officers should be kept out of the huts, but as far as possible soldiers
were made to feel that the Salvation Army was in France to serve them and not for its own pleasure
or convenience.

The third requisite was that the Salvation Army should be willing to share their dangers and
this was proved to them when they went to the trenches--the Salvation Army moved to the trenches
with them and established huts and outposts as close to the front line as was permitted.

X.

The Armistice

After the Armistice was signed, on November 11th, it was a great question what disposition
would be made of the troops. It was concluded that they would be sent home as rapidly as possible
and that the three ports--Brest, St. Nazaire and Bordeaux--would be used for that purpose.
Immediately arrangements were made for the opening of Salvation Army work at the base ports
with a view to letting the boys have a last sight of the Salvation Army as they left the shores
of France. The Salvation Army had served them in the training area and at the front and were
still serving them as they left the shores of the old world and it would meet them again when
they arrived on the shores of the home-land. In this way the contact of the Salvation Army
would be continuous, so that when they returned, it would be able to reach their hearts and
affect their lives with the Gospel of Christ.

The problem of buildings was, of course, the first one and a very difficult one. To secure
buildings of adequate size, which could be constructed in a short space of time, was almost
out of the question, but it occurred to the officers that the aviation section would be demobilizing
and that they had brought over portable steel buildings, for use as hangars. The matter was
taken up at once with the military authorities and twenty of these steel buildings were secured--each
of them sixty-six feet wide by one hundred feet long. It was planned to place eight of them
at Bordeaux, six at St. Nazaire and six at Brest. By placing two of them end to end it was
possible to secure one auditorium sixty-six feet wide by two hundred feet long--capable of
seating three thousand men. Adjoining that could be another building sixty-six feet by one
hundred feet, to be used for canteen and rest room.

It was planned to proceed with a religious campaign at these Base Ports, holding Salvation
meetings in these extensive departments.

When the Army of Occupation was started for Germany, two Salvation Army trucks were assigned
to go along with the Army. Whenever the Army of Occupation stopped for a space of two or three
days, places were secured where doughnuts could be fried, pies made, and at all times hot coffee
and chocolate were available for the men.

When the American soldiers marched through the villages of Alsace-Lorraine the Salvationists
marched with them. At Esch and Luxemburg they were in all the rejoicing and triumph of the
parade, bringing succor and comfort wherever they could find an opportunity.

When the men arrived at Coblenz the Salvation Army was there before them, and on their crossing
the Rhine, arrangements had been made for the location of the Salvation Army work at the principal
points in the Rhine- head. They are now conducting Salvation Army operations with the Army
of Occupation.

One of the occasions when President Wilson clapped for the Salvation Army was at the inauguration
of the Soldiers' Association in Paris. The Y had invited all the other organizations to be
present. The meeting was held in the Palais de Glace, which seats about ten thousand people.

President and Mrs. Wilson were present, accompanied by many prominent American officials. Representatives
of the various War Work Organizations spoke.

The Salvationist who had been selected to represent the Army at this meeting had been in the
United States Navy for twelve years and was a chaplain.

When he was called upon to speak the boys with one accord as if by preconcerted action arose
to their feet and gave him an ovation. Of course, it was not given to the man but to the uniform.

A soldier of the Rainbow Division sitting next to one of the Salvation Army workers over there,
kept telling him what the boys thought of the Salvation Army, and when the cheering began he
poked the Salvationist in the ribs and whispered joyously:

"I told you! I told you! We've just been waiting for eight months to pull this off! Now, you see!"

The speaker when given opportunity did not attempt to make a great speech. He told in simple,
vivid sentences of the services of the Salvation Army just back of the trenches under fire;
and President Wilson sat listening and applauding with the rest.

The chaplain paid a tribute to President Wilson, finishing with these words:

"President Wilson was not man-elected, but God-selected!"

CHAPLAINS.

 For some little time after the War started it was a question as to
whether the Salvation Army was entitled to any representation in the realm
of Chaplaincies of the United States forces. During the progress of the
consideration Adjutant Harry Kline secured an appointment with the
Nebraska National Guard, and his regiment being made a part of the
National Army, he was received as an officer of the same and thus became
our first Army Chaplain.

The War Office decided favorably with regard to the question of our general representation,
and shortly thereafter Adjutant John Allan, of Bowery fame, was given a first lieutenancy and
then followed, in the order given, Captain Ernest Holz, Adjutant Ryan and Captain Norman Marshall.

The exceptional service that these men have rendered is of sufficient importance to have a
much wider notice than where only the barest of reference is possible. Shortly after arrival
in France Chaplain Allan was being very favorably noticed because of the character of the work
which he was doing, and it was gratifying to learn that this confidence was reflected in his
appointment as Senior Chaplain of his regiment and his assignment to special service where
probity and wisdom were essential. Shortly thereafter he was taken to the Army Headquarters,
where up to the present time he is most highly esteemed as a co-laborer with Bishop Brent,
the Chaplain-General of the overseas forces.

Typical of the enthusiasm of each of the five men appointed as Chaplains, the following story
is told of First Lieutenant Ernest Holz, who was inducted into his office as Senior Chaplain
of his regiment right at the commencement of his career.

At the beginning of the year, when Chaplain Holz knew his Salvation Army comrades would, as
usual, be engaged in special revival work, he thought it would be a worthy thing to time a
similar effort among the men of his regiment. Approaching the Colonel, he found him in hearty
agreement concerning the effort, and so securing the assistance of his fellow chaplains they
arranged for a series of meetings nightly for one week, with the result that two hundred of
the men of the regiment confessed Christ and practically all of them were deeply interested.

The effort was wholly directed to the uplift of the men and God commanded His blessing in a
most gratifying manner.

XI.

Homecoming

The boat docked that morning, and one soldier at least, as he stood on the deck and watched
the shores of his native land draw nearer, felt mingling with the thrill of joy at his return
a vague uneasiness. He was coming back, it is true, but it had been a long time and a lot of
things had happened. For one thing he had lost his foot. That in itself was a pretty stiff
proposition. For another thing he was not wearing any decorations save the wound stripes on
his sleeve. Those would have been enough, and more than enough, for his mother if she were
alive, but she had gone away from earth during his absence, and the girl he had kissed good-bye
and promised great things was peculiar. The question was, would she stand for that amputated
foot? He didn't like to think it of her, but he found he wasn't sure. Perhaps, if there had
been a croix de guerre! He had promised her to win that and no end of other honors, when he
went away so buoyant and hopeful; but almost on his first day of real battle he had been hurt
and tossed aside like a derelict, to languish in a hospital, with no more hope of winning anything.
And now he had come home with one foot gone, and no distinction!

He hadn't told the girl yet about the foot. He didn't know as he should. He felt lonely and
desolate in spite of his joy at getting back to "God's Country." He frowned at the hazy outline
of the great city from which tall buildings were beginning to differentiate themselves as they
drew nearer. There was New York. He meant to see New York, of course. He was a Westerner and
had never had an opportunity to go about the metropolis of his own country. Of course, he would
see it all. Perhaps, after he was demobilized he would stay there. Maybe he wouldn't send word
he had come back. Let them think he was killed or taken prisoner, or missing, or anything they
liked. There were things to do in New York. There were places where he would be welcome even
with one foot gone and no cross of war. Thus he mused as the boat drew nearer the shore and
the great city loomed close at hand. Then, suddenly, just as the boat was touching the pier
and a long murmur of joy went up from the wanderers on board, his eyes dropped idly to the
dock and there in her trim little overseas uniform, with the sunlight glancing from the silver
letters on the scarlet shield of her trench cap and the smile radiating from her sweet face,
stood the very same Salvation Army lassie who had bent over him as he lay on the ground just
back of the trenches waiting to be put in the ambulance and taken to the hospital after he
had been wounded. He could feel again the throbbing pain in his leg, the sickening pain of
his head as he lay in the hot sun, with the flies swarming everywhere, the horrible din of
battle all about, and his tongue parched and swollen with fever from lying all night in pain
on the wet ground of No Man's Land. She had laid a soft little hand on his hot forehead, bathed
his face, and brought him a cold drink of lemonade. If he lived to be a hundred years old he
would never taste anything so good as that lemonade had been. Afterward the doctor said it
was the good cold drink that day that saved the lives of those fever patients who had lain
so long without attention. Oh, he would never forget the Salvation lassie! And there she was
alive and at home! She hadn't been killed as the fellows had been afraid she would. She had
come through it all and here she was always ahead and waiting to welcome a fellow home. It
brought the tears smarting to his eyes to think about it, and he leaned over the rail of the
ship and yelled himself hoarse with the rest over her, forgetting all about his lost foot.
It was hours before they were off the ship. All the red tape necessary for the movement of
such a company of men had to be unwound and wound up again smoothly, and the time stretched
out interminably; but somehow it did not seem so hard to wait now, for there was someone down
there on the dock that he could speak to, and perhaps--just perhaps--he would tell her of his
dilemma about his girl. Somehow he felt that she would understand.

He watched eagerly when he was finally lined up on the wharf waiting for roll-call, for he
was sure she would come; and she did, swinging down the line with her arms full of chocolate,
handing out telegraph blanks and postal cards, real postal cards with a stamp on them that
could be mailed anywhere. He gripped one in his big, rough hand as if it were a life preserver.
A real, honest-to-goodness postal card! My it was good to see the old red and white stamp again!
And he spoke impulsively:

"You're the girl that saved my life out there in the field, don't you remember? With the lemonade!"
Her face lit up. She had recognized him and somehow cleared one hand of chocolate and telegrams
to grasp his with a hearty welcome: "I'm so glad you came through all right!" her cheery voice
said.

All right! All right! Did she call it all right? He looked down at his one foot with a dubious
frown. She was quick to see. She understood.

"Oh, but that's nothing!" she said, and somehow her voice put new heart into him. "Your folks
will be so glad to have you home you'll forget all about it. Come, aren't you going to send
them a telegram?" And she held out the yellow blank.

But still he hesitated.

"I don't know," he said, looking down at his foot again. "Mother's gone, and------"

Instantly her quick sympathy enveloped his sore soul, and he felt that just the inflection
of her voice was like balm when she said: "I'm so sorry!" Then she added:

"But isn't there somebody else? I'm sure there was. I'm sure you told me about a girl I was
to write to if you didn't come through. Aren't you going to let her know? Of course you are."

"I don't know," said the boy. "I don't think I am. Maybe I'll never go back now. You see, I'm
not what I was when I went away."

"Nonsense!" said the lassie with that cheerful assurance that had carried her through shell
fire and made her merit the pet name of "Sunshine" that the boys had given her in the trenches.
"Why, that wouldn't be fair to her. Of course, you're going to let her know right away. Leave
it to me. Here, give me her address!"

Quick as a flash she had the address and was off to a telephone booth. This was no message
that could wait to go back to headquarters. It must go at once.

He saw her again before he left the wharf. She gave him a card with two addresses written on it:

"This first is where you can drop in and rest when you are tired," she explained. "It's just
one of our huts; the other is where you can find a good bed when you are in the city."

Then she was off with a smile down the line, giving out more telegraph blanks and scattering
sunshine wherever she went. He glanced back as he left the pier and saw her still floating
eagerly here and there like a little sister looking after more real brothers.

The next day, when he was free and on a few days leave from camp, he started out with his crutch
to see the city, but the thought of her kept him from some of the places where his feet might
have strayed. Yet she had not said a word of warning. Her smile and the look in her eyes had
placed perfect confidence in him, and he could remember the prayer she had uttered in a low
tone back there at the dressing station behind the trenches in the ear of a companion who was
not going to live to get to the Base Hospital, and who had begged her to pray with him before
he went. Somehow it lingered with him all day and changed his ideas of what he wanted to see
in New York.

But it was a long hard tramp he had set for himself to see the town with that one foot. He
hadn't much money for cars, even if he had known which cars to take, so he hobbled along and
saw what he could. He was all alone, for the fellows he started with went so fast and wanted
to do so many things that he could not do, that he had made an excuse to shake them off. They
were kind. They would not have left him if they had known; but he wasn't going to begin his
new life having everybody put out on his account, so he was alone. And it was toward evening.
He was very tired. It seemed to him that he couldn't go another block. If only there were a
place somewhere where he could sit down a little while and rest; even a doorstep would do if
there were only one near at hand. Of course, there were saloons, and there would always be
soldiers in them. He would likely be treated, and there would be good cheer, and a chance to
forget for a little while; but somehow the thought of that Salvation lassie and the cheery
way she had made him send that telegram kept him back. When a girl with painted cheeks stopped
and smiled in his face he passed her by, and half wondered why he did it. He must go somewhere
presently and get a bite to eat, but it couldn't be much for he wanted to save money enough
and hunt up that lodging house where there were nice beds. How much he wanted that bed!

It was quite dark now. The lights were lit everywhere. He was coming to a great thoroughfare.
He judged by his slight knowledge of the city that it might be Broadway. There would likely
be a restaurant somewhere near. He hurried on and turned into the crowded street. How cold
it was! The wind cut him like a knife. He had been a fool to come off alone like this! Just
out of the hospital, too. Perhaps he would get sick and have to go to another hospital. He
shivered and stopped to pull his collar up closer around his neck. Then suddenly he stood still
and stared with a dazed, bewildered expression, straight ahead of him. Was he getting a bit
leary? He passed his hand over his eyes and looked again. Yes, there it was! Right in the midst
of the busy, hurrying throng of Union Square! He made sure it was Union Square, for he looked
up at the street sign to be certain it wasn't Willow Vale--or Heaven--right there where streets
met and crossed, and cars and trolleys and trucks whirled, and people passed in throngs all
day, just across the narrow road, stood the loveliest, most perfect little white clapboard
cottage that ever was built on this earth, with porches all around and a big tree growing up
through the roof of one porch. It stood out against the night like a wonderful mirage, like
a heavenly dove descended into the turmoil of the pit, like home and mother in the midst of
a rushing pitiless world. He could have cried real tears of wonder and joy as he stood there,
gazing. He felt as though he were one of those motion pictures in which a lone Klondiker sits
by his campfire cooking a can of salmon or baked beans, and up above him on the screen in one
corner appears the Christmas tree where his wife and baby at home are celebrating and missing
him. It seemed just as unreal as that to see that little beautiful home cottage set down in
the midst of the city.

The windows were all lit up with a warm, rosy light and there were curtains at the windows,
rosy pink curtains like the ones they used to have at the house where his girl lived, long
ago before the War spoiled him. He stood and continued to gaze until a lot of cash-boys, let
loose from the toil of the day, rushed by and almost knocked his crutch from under him. Then
he determined to get nearer this wonder. Carefully watching his opportunity he hobbled across
the street and went slowly around the building. Yes, it was real. Some public building, of
course, but how wonderful to have it look so like a home! Why had they done it?

Then he came around toward the side, and there in plain letters was a sign: "SOLDIERS AND SAILORS
IN UNIFORM WELCOME." What? Was it possible? Then he might go in? What kind of a place could it be?

He raised his eyes a little and there, slung out above the neatly shingled porch, like any
sign, swung an immense fat brown doughnut a foot and a half in diameter, with the sugar apparently
still sticking to it, and inside the rough hole sat a big white coffee cup. His heart leaped
up and something suddenly gave him an idea. He fumbled in his pocket, brought out a card, saw
that this was the Salvation Army hut, and almost shouted with joy. He lost no time in hurrying
around to the door and stepping inside.

There revealed before him was a great cozy room, with many easy-chairs and tables, a piano
at which a young soldier sat playing ragtime, and at the farther end a long white counter on
which shone two bright steaming urns that sent forth a delicious odor of coffee. Through an
open door behind the counter he caught a glimpse of two Salvation Army lassies busy with some
cups and plates, and a third enveloped in a white apron was up to her elbows in flour, mixing
something in a yellow bowl. By one of the little tables two soldier boys were eating doughnuts
and coffee, and at another table a sailor sat writing a letter. It was all so cozy and homelike
that it took his breath away and he stood there blinking at the lights that flooded the rooms
from graceful white bowl-like globes that hung suspended from the ceiling by brass chains.
He saw that the rosy light outside had come from soft pink silk sash curtains that covered
the lower part of the windows, and there were inner draperies of some heavier flowered material
that made the whole thing look real and substantial. The willow chairs had cushions of the
same flowered stuff. The walls were a soft pearly gray below and creamy white above, set off
by bands of dark wood, and a dark floor with rush mats strewn about. He looked around slowly,
taking in every detail almost painfully. It was such a contrast to the noisy, rushing street,
a contrast to the hospital, and the trenches and all the life with which he had been familiar
during the past few dreadful months. It made him think of home and mother. He began to be afraid
he was going to cry like a great big baby, and he looked around nervously for a place to get
out of sight. He saw a fellow going upstairs and at a distance he followed him. Up there was
another bright, quiet room, curtained and cushioned like the other, with more easy willow chairs,
round willow tables, and desks over by the wall where one might write. The soldier who had
come up ahead of him was already settled writing now at a desk in the far corner. There were
bookcases between the windows with new beautifully bound books in them, and there were magazines
scattered around, and no rules that one must not spit on the floor, or put their feet in the
chairs, or anything of the sort. Only, of course, no one would ever dream of doing anything
like that in such a place. How beautiful it was, and how quiet and peaceful! He sank into a
chair and looked about him. What rest!

And now there were real tears in his eyes which he hastened to brush roughly away, for someone
was coming toward him and a hand was on his shoulder. A man's voice, kindly, pleasant, brotherly,
spoke:

"All in, are you, my boy? Well, you just sit and rest yourself awhile. What do you think of
our hut? Good place to rest? Well, that's what we want it to be to you, Home. Just drop in
here whenever you're in town and want a place to rest or write, or a bite of something homelike
to eat."

He looked up to the broad shoulders in their well-fitting dark blue uniform, and into the kindly
face of the gray-haired Colonel of the Salvation Army who happened to step in for a minute
on business and had read the look on the lonesome boy's face just in time to give a word of
cheer. He could have thrown his arms around the man's neck and kissed him if he only hadn't
been too shy. But in spite of the shyness he found himself talking with this fine strong man
and telling him some of his disappointments and perplexities, and when the older man left him
he was strengthened in spirit from the brief conversation. Somehow it didn't look quite so
black a prospect to have but one foot.

He read a magazine for a little while and then, drawn by the delicious odors, he went downstairs
and had some coffee and doughnuts. He saw while he was eating that the front porch opened out
of the big lower room and was all enclosed in glass and heated with radiators. A lot of fellows
were sitting around there in easy-chairs, smoking, talking, one or two sleeping in their chairs
or reading papers. It had a dim, quiet light, a good place to rest and think. He was more and
more filled with wonder. Why did they do it? Not for money, for they charged hardly enough
to pay for the materials in the food they sold, and he knew by experience that when one had
no money one could buy of them just the same if one were in need.

Later in the evening he took out the little card again and looked up the other address. He
wanted one of those clean, sweet beds that he had been hearing about, that one could get for
only a quarter a night, with all the shower-bath you wanted thrown in. So he went out again
and found his way down to Forty-first Street.

There was something homelike about the very atmosphere as he entered the little office room
and looked about him. Beyond, through an open door he could see a great red brick fireplace
with a fire blazing cheerfully and a few fellows sitting about reading and playing checkers.
Everybody looked as if they felt at home.

When he signed his name in the big register book the young woman behind the desk who wore an
overseas uniform glanced at his signature and then looked up as if she were welcoming an old
friend:

"There's a telegram here for you," she said pleasantly. "It came last night and we tried to
locate you at the camp but did not succeed. One of our girls went over to camp this afternoon,
but they said you were gone on a furlough, so we hoped you would turn up."

She handed over the telegram and he took it in wonder. Who would send him a telegram? And here
of all places! Why, how would anybody know he would be here? He was so excited his crutch trembled
under his arm as he tore open the envelope and read:

 "Dear Billy (It was a regular letter!):

"I am leaving to-night for New York. Will meet you at Salvation Hostel day after to-morrow
morning. What is a foot more or less? Can't I be hands and feet for you the rest of your life?
I'm proud, proud, proud of you!

                                              Signed "Jean"

 He found great tears coming into his eyes and his throat was full of
them, too. It didn't matter if that Salvation Army lassie behind the
counter did see them roll down his cheeks. He didn't care. She would
understand anyway, and he laughed out loud in his joy and relief, the
first joy, the first relief since he was hurt!

Some one else was coming in the door, another fellow maybe, but the lassie opened a door in
the desk and drew him behind the counter in a shaded corner where no one would notice and brought
him a cup of tea, which she said was all they had around to eat just then. She didn't pay any
attention to him till he got his equilibrium again.

She was the kind of woman one feels is a natural-born mother. In fact, the fellows were always
asking her wistfully: "May we call you Mother?" Young enough to understand and enter into their
joys and sorrows, yet old enough to be wise and sweet and true. She mothered every boy that came.

A sailor boy once asked if he might bring his girl to see her. He said he wanted her to see
her so she could tell his mother about her.

"But can't you tell her about your girl?" she asked.

"Oh, yes, but I want you to tell her." he said. "You see, whatever you say mother'll know is true."

So presently she turned to this lonely boy and took him upstairs through the pleasant upper
room with its piano and games, its sun parlor over the street, lined with trailing ferns, with
cheery canaries in swinging tasseled cages, who looked fully as happy and at home as did the
soldier boys who were sitting about comfortably reading. She found him a room with only one
other bunk in it. Nice white beds with springs like air and mattresses like down. She showed
him where the shower-baths were, and with a kindly good-night left him. He almost wanted to
ask her to kiss him good-night, so much like his own mother she seemed.

Before he got into that white bed he knelt beside it, all clean and comfortable and happy like
a little child that had wandered a long way from home and got back again, and he told God he
was sorry and ashamed for all the way he had doubted, and sinned, and he wanted to live a new
life and be good. Then he lay down to sleep. To-morrow morning Jean would be there. And she
didn't mind about the foot! She didn't mind! How wonderful!

And then he had a belated memory of the little Salvation Army lassie on the wharf who had brought
all this about, and he closed his eyes and murmured out loud to the clean, white walls: "God
bless her! Oh, God bless her!"

This is only one of the many stories that might be told about the boys who have been helped
by the various activities of the Salvation Army, both at home and abroad.

It would be well worth one's while to visit their Brooklyn Hospital and their New York Hospital
and all their other wonderful institutions. In several of them are many little children, some
mere infants, belonging to soldiers and sailors away in the war. In some instances the mother
is dead, or has to work. If she so desires she is given work in the institution, which is like
a real home, and allowed to be with her child and care for it. Where both mother and father
are dead the child remains for six years or until a home elsewhere is provided for it. Here
the little ones are well cared for, not in the ordinary sense of an institution, but as a child
would be cared for in a home, with beauty and love, and pleasure mingling with the food and
shelter and raiment that is usually supplied in an institution. These children are prettily,
though simply, dressed and not in uniform; with dainty bits of color in hair ribbon, collar,
necktie or frock; the babies have wee pink and blue wool caps and sacks like any beloved little
mites, they ride around on Kiddie Cars, play with doll houses and have a fine Kindergarten
teacher to guide their young minds, and the best of hospital service when they are ailing.
But that is another story, and there are yet many of them. If everybody could see the beautiful
life-size painting of Christ blessing the little children which is painted right on the very
wall and blended into the tinting, they could better comprehend the spirit which pervades this
lovely home.

The New York Hospital, which has just been rebuilt and refurnished with all the latest appliances,
is in charge of a devoted woman physician, who has given her life to healing, and has at the
head of its Board one of the most noted surgeons in the city, who gives his services free,
and boasts that he enjoys it best of all his work. Here those of small means or of no means
at all, especially those belonging to soldiers and sailors, may find healing of the wisest
and most expert kind, in cheery, airy, sanitary and beautiful rooms. But here, too, to understand,
one must see. Just a peep into one of those dainty white rooms would rest a poor sick soul;
just a glance at the room full of tiny white basket cribs with dainty blue satin- bound blankets--real
wool blankets--and white spreads, would convince one.

And what one sees in New York in the line of such activities is duplicated in most of the other
large cities of the United States.

Not the least of the Salvation Army service for the returning soldiers is the work that is
done on the docks by the lassies meeting returning troop ships. They send telegrams free, not
C.O.D., for them, give the men stamped postal cards, hunt up relatives, answer questions, and
give them chocolate while they wait for the inevitable roll call before they can entrain. Often
these girls will sit up half the night after having met boats nearly all day, to get the telegrams
all off that night. It is interesting to note that on one single day, April 20th, 1919, the
Salvation Army Headquarters in New York sent 2900 such free telegrams for returning soldiers.

The other day the father of a soldier came to Headquarters with an anxious face, after a certain
unit from overseas had returned. It was the unit in which his boy had gone to France, but he
had written saying he was in the hospital without stating what was the matter or how serious
his wound. No further word had been received and the father and mother were frenzied with grief.
They had tried in every way to get information but could find out nothing. The Salvation Army
went to work on the telephone and in a short time were able to locate the missing boy in a
Casual Company soon to return, and to report to his anxious father that he was recovering rapidly.

Another soldier arrived in New York and sent a Salvation Army telegram to his father and mother
in California who had previously received notification that he was dead. A telegram came back
to the Salvation Army almost at once from the West stating this fact and begging some one to
go to the camp where the boy's Casual Company was located and find out if he were really living.
One of the girls from the office went over to the Debarkation Hospital immediately and saw
the boy, and was able to telegraph to his parents that he was perfectly recovered and only
awaiting transportation to California. He was overjoyed to see someone who had heard from his
parents.

A portion of one troop ship had been reserved for soldiers having influenza. These men were
kept on board long after all the others had left the ship. A Salvation Army worker seeing them
with the white masks over their faces went on board and served them with chocolate, distributing
post cards and telegraph blanks. When she was leaving the ship a Captain said to her rather
brusquely: "Don't you realize that you have done a foolish thing? Those men have influenza
and your serving them might mean your death!"

Looking up into the man's eyes the Salvationist said: "I am ready to die if God sees fit to
call me."

The officer laughed and told her that was the first time in his life he had known anyone to
say they were ready to die and would willingly expose themselves to such a contagious disease.

"Aren't you ready to die?" asked the girl. "Certainly not," replied the Captain. "Sometimes
I think I am hardly fit to live, much less die."

"Don't you realize that there is a Power which can enable you to live in such a way as to make
you ready to die?"

"Oh, well, I don't bother about going to church, in fact, I don't bother about religion at
all, although I must say once or twice when I was up the line over there I wished I did know
something about religion, that is, the kind that makes a fellow feel good about dying; but
I don't want to go to church and go through all that business."

"It is possible to accept Christ here and now on this very spot--on this ship--if you'll only
believe," said the girl wistfully.

The Captain could not help being interested and thoughtful. When she left, after a little more
talk he put out his hand and said:

"Thank you. You've done me more good than any sermon could have done me, and believe me, I
am going to pray and trust God to help me live a different life."

Sad things are seen on the docks at times when the ships come into port, and the boys are coming
home.

A soldier in a basket, with both arms and both legs gone and only one eye, was being carried
tenderly along.

"Why do you let him live?" asked one pityingly of the Commanding Officer.

The gruff, kindly voice replied:

"You don't know what life is. We don't live through our arms and legs. We live through our hearts."

Some of our boys have learned out there amid shell fire to live through their hearts.

One of these lying on a litter greeted the lassie from Indiana, just come back to New York
from France to meet the boys when they landed:

"Hello, Sister! You here?"

Her eyes filled with tears as she recognized one of her old friends of the trenches, and noticed
how helpless he was now, he who had been the strongest of the strong. She murmured sympathetically
some words of attempted cheer:

"Oh, that's all right, Sister," he said, "I know they got me pretty hard, but I don't mind
that. I'm not going to feel bad about it. I got something better than arms and legs over in
one of your little huts in France. I found Jesus, and I'm going to live for Him. I wanted you
to know."

A few days later she was talking with another boy just landed. She asked him how it seemed
to be home again, and to her surprise he turned a sorrowful face to her:

"It's the greatest disappointment of my life," he said sadly, "the folks here don't understand.
They all want to make me forget, and I don't want to forget what I learned out there. I saw
life in a different way and I knew I had wasted all the years. I want to live differently now,
and mother and her friends are just getting up dances and theatre parties for me to help me
to forget. They don't understand."

Forty miles west of Chicago is Camp Grant and there the Salvation Army has put up a hut just
outside of the camp.

During the days when the boys were being sent to France, and were under quarantine, unable
to go out, no one was allowed to come in and there was great distress. Mothers and sisters
and friends could get no opportunity to see them for farewells.

The Salvation officer in charge suggested to the military authorities that the Salvation Army
hut be the clearing place for relatives, and that he would come in his machine and bring the
boys to the hut, taking them back again afterwards, that they might have a few hours with their
friends before leaving for France.

This offer was readily accepted by the authorities, and so it was made possible for hundreds
and hundreds of mothers to get a last talk with their boys before they left, some of them forever.

One day a young man came to the Salvation Army officer and told him that his regiment was to
depart that night and that he was in great distress about his wife who on her way to see him
had been caught in a railroad wreck, and later taken on her way by a rescue train. "I think
she is in Rockford somewhere," he said anxiously, "but I don't know where, and I have to leave
in three hours!"

The Ensign was ready with his help at once. He took the young soldier in his car to Rockford,
seven miles away, and they went from hotel to hotel seeking in vain for any trace of the wife.
Then suddenly as they were driving along the street wondering what to try next the young soldier
exclaimed: "There she is!" And there she was, walking along the street!

The two had a blessed two hours together before the soldier had to leave. But it was all in
the day's work for the Salvation Army man, for his main object in life is to help someone,
and he never minds how much he puts himself out. It is always reward enough for him to have
succeeded in bringing comfort to another.

One of the Salvation Army Ensigns who was assigned to work at Camp Grant hut had been an all-round
athlete before he joined the Salvation Army, a boxer and wrestler of no mean order.

The fame of the Ensign went abroad and the doctor at the Base Hospital asked him to take charge
of athletics in the hospital. He was also appointed regularly as chaplain in the hospital.
Every day he drilled the five hundred women nurses in gymnastics, and put the men attendants
and as many of the patients as were able through a set of exercises. Thus mingling his religion
with his athletics he became a great power among the men in the hospital.

The Salvation Army asked the hospital if there was anything they could do for the wounded men.
The reply was, that there were eighty wards and not a graphophone in one of them, nothing to
amuse the boys. The need was promptly filled by the Salvation Army which supplied a number
of graphophones and a piano. Then, discovering that the nurses who were getting only a very
small cash allowance out of which they had to furnish their uniforms, were short of shoes,
the indefatigable good Samaritan produced a thousand dollars to buy new shoes for them. The
Salvation Army has always been doing things like that.

The Salvation Army built many huts, locating them wherever there was need among the camps.
They have a hut at Camp Grant, one at Camp Funston, one at Camp Travis, San Antonio, one at
Camp Logan, Houston, Texas, one at Camp Bowie, Fort Worth, one at Camp Cody, Deming, New Mexico,
one at Camp Lewis, Tacoma, a Soldiers' Club at Des Moines, a Soldiers' Club with Sitting Room,
Dining Room, and rooms for a hundred soldiers just opened at Chicago. There is a charge of
twenty-five cents a night and twenty-five cents a meal for such as have money. No charge for
those who have no money. There is such a Soldiers' Club at St. Louis, Kansas City, St. Paul
and Minneapolis. All of these places at the camps have accommodations for women relatives to
visit the soldiers, and all of the rooms are always full to the limit.

In Des Moines the Army has an interesting institution which grew out of a great need.

The Federal authorities have placed a Woman's Protective Agency in all Camp towns. At Des Moines
the woman representative of the Federal Government sent word to the Salvation Army that she
wished they would help her. She said she had found so many young girls between the ages of
fourteen and sixteen who were being led into an immoral life through the soldiers, and she
wished the Salvation Army would open a home to take care of such girls.

With their usual swiftness to come to the rescue the Salvation Army opened such a home. The
Brigadier up in Chicago gave up his valued private secretary, a lovely young girl only twenty-four
years old, to be at the head of this home. It may seem a pretty big undertaking for so young
a girl, but these Salvation Army girls are brought up to be wonderfully wise and sweet beyond
others, and if you could look into her beautiful eyes you would have an understanding of the
consecration and strength of character that has made it possible for her to do this work with
marvellous success, and reach the hearts and turn the lives of these many young girls who have
come under her influence in this way. In her work she deals with the individual, always giving
immediate relief for any need, always pointing the way straight and direct to a better life.
The young girls are kept in the home for a week or more until some near relative can be sent
for, or longer, until a home and work can be found for them. Every case is dealt with on its
own merits; and many young girls have had their feet set upon the right road, and a new purpose
in life given to them with new ideals, from the young Christian girl whom they easily love
and trust.

So great has been the success of the Salvation Army hut and women's hostel at Camp Lewis that
the United States Government has asked the Salvation Army to put up a hundred thousand dollar
hotel at that camp which is located twenty miles out of Tacoma. The Salvation Army hut at this
place was recently inspected by Secretary of War Baker and Chief of Staff who highly complimented
the Salvationists on the good work being done.

A Christmas box was sent by the Salvation Army to each soldier in every camp and hospital throughout
the West. Each box contained an orange, an apple, two pounds of nuts, one pound of raisins,
one pound of salted peanuts, one package of figs, two handkerchiefs in sealed packets, one
book of stamps, a package of writing paper, a New Testament, and a Christmas letter from the
Commissioner at Headquarters in Chicago.

No Officer in the Salvation Army has been more successful in ingenious efforts to further all
activities connected with the work than Commissioner Estill in command of the Western forces.
He is an indefatigable and tireless worker, is greatly beloved, and his efforts have met with
exceptional success.

It was a new manager who had taken hold of the affairs of the Salvation Army Hostel in a certain
city that morning and was establishing family prayers. A visitor, waiting to see someone, sat
in an alcove listening.

There in the long beautiful living-room of the Hostel sat a little audience, two black women-the
cooks-several women in neat aprons and caps as if they had come in from their work, a soldier
who had been reading the morning paper and who quietly laid it aside when the Bible reading
began, a sailor who tiptoed up the two low steps from the cafe beyond the living- room where
he had been having his morning coffee and doughnuts--the young clerk from behind the office
desk. They all sat quiet, respectful, as if accorded a sudden, unexpected privilege.

The reading was a few well-chosen verses about Moses in the mount of vision and somehow seemed
to have a strange quieting influence and carried a weight of reality read thus in the beginning
of a busy day's work.

The reader closed the book and quite familiarly, not at all pompously, he said with a pleasant
smile that this was a lesson for all of them. Each one should have his vision for the day.
The cook should have a vision as she made the doughnuts--and he called her by her name--to
make them just as well as they could be made; and the women who made the beds should have a
vision of how they could make the beds smooth and soft and fine to rest weary comers; and those
who cleaned must have a vision to make the house quite pure and sweet so that it would be a
home for the boys who came there; the clerk at the desk should have a vision to make the boys
comfortable and give them a welcome; and everyone should have a vision of how to do his work
in the best way, so that all who came there for a day or a night or longer should have a vision
when they left that God was ruling in that place and that everything was being done for His praise.

Just a few simple words bringing the little family of workers into touch with the Divine and
giving them a glimpse of the great plan of laboring with God where no work is menial, and nothing
too small to be worth doing for the love of Christ. Then the little company dropped upon their
knees, and the earnest voice took up a prayer which was more an intimate word with a trusted
beloved Companion; and they all arose to go about that work of theirs with new zest and--a vision!

In her alcove out of sight the visitor found refreshment for her own soul, and a vision also.

This is the secret of this wonderful work that these people do in France, in the cities, everywhere;
they have a vision! They have been upon the Mountain with God and they have not forgotten the
injunction:

"See that thou do all things according to the pattern given thee in the Mount"

But the stories multiply and my space is drawing to a close. I am minded to say reverently
in words of old:

"And there are also many other things which these disciples of Jesus did, the which if they
should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books
that should be written;" but are they not graven in the hearts of men who found the Christ
on the battlefield or the hospital cot, or in the dim candle-lit hut, through these dear followers
of His?

XII.

Letters of Appreciation

MY DEAR MISS BOOTH:

You may be sure that your telegram of November fifteenth warmed my heart and brought me very
real cheer and encouragement. It is a message of just the sort that one needs in these trying
times, and I hope that you will express to your associates my profound appreciation and my
entire confidence in their loyalty, their patriotism, and their enthusiasm for the great work
they are doing.

Cordially and sincerely yours, Woodrow Wilson. Nov. 30,1917.

MY DEAR MISS BOOTH:

I am very much interested to hear of the campaign the Salvation Army has undertaken for money
to sustain its war activities, and want to take the opportunity to express my admiration for
the work that it has done and my sincere hope that it may be fully sustained.

(Signed) WOODROW WILSON. The President of the United States of America.

Commander Evangeline Booth, Paris, 7 April, 1919. 122 W. 14th Street, New York, U.S.A.

I am very much interested to know that the Salvation Army is about to enter into a campaign
for a sustaining fund.

I feel that the Salvation Army needs no commendation from me. The love and gratitude it has
elicited from the troops is a sufficient evidence of the work it has done and I feel that I
should not so much commend as congratulate it.

Cordially and sincerely yours, Woodrow Wilson.

British Delegation, Paris, 8th April, 1919.

DEAR MADAM:

I have very great pleasure in sending you this letter to say how highly I think of the great
work which has been done by the Salvation Army amongst the Allied Armies in France and the
other theatres of war. From all sides I hear the most glowing accounts of the way in which
your people have added to the comfort and welfare of our soldiers. To me it has always been
a great joy to think how much the sufferings and hardships endured by our troops in all parts
of the world have been lessened by the self-sacrifice and devotion shown to them by that excellent
organization, the Salvation Army.

Yours faithfully, W. Lloyd George.

General J. J. Pershing, France.

The Salvation Army of America will never cease to hail you with devoted affection and admiration
for your valiant leadership of your valiant army. You have rushed the advent of the world's
greatest peace, and all men honor you. To God be all the glory!

Commander Evangeline Booth.

Commander Evangeline Booth, New York City.

"Many thanks for your cordial cable. The American Expeditionary Forces thank you for all your
noble work that the Salvation Army has done for them from the beginning."

General Pershing.

With deep feeling of gratitude for the enormous contribution which the Salvation Army has made
to the moral and physical welfare of this expedition all ranks join me in sending heartiest
Christmas greetings and cordial best wishes for the New Year.

(Signed) Pershing.

Salvation, New York. Paris, April 22, 1919.

The following cable received, Colonel William S. Barker, Director of the Salvation Army, Paris:
My dear Colonel Barker--I wish to express to you my sincere appreciation, and that of all members
of the American Expeditionary Forces, for the splendid services rendered by the Salvation Army
to the American Army in France. You first submitted your plans to me in the summer of 1917,
and before the end of that year you had a number of Huts in operation in the Training Area
of the First Division, and a group of devoted men and women who laid the foundation for the
affectionate regard in which the workers of your organization have always been held by the
American soldiers. The outstanding features of the work of the Salvation Army have been its
disposition to push its activities as far as possible to the Front, and the trained and experienced
character of its workers whose one thought was the well-being of its soldiers they came to
serve. While the maintenance of these standards has necessarily kept your work within narrow
bounds as compared to some of the other welfare agencies, it has resulted in a degree of excellence
and self-sacrifice in the work performed which has been second to none. It has endeared your
organization and its individual men and women workers to all those Divisions and other units
to which they have been attached and has published their good name to every part of the American
Expeditionary forces. Please accept this letter as a personal message to each one of your workers.
Very sincerely,

John J. Pershing.

Marshal Foch, Paris, France:

Your brilliant armies, under blessing of God, have triumphed. The Salvation Army of America
exults with war-worn but invincible France. We must consolidate for God of Peace all the good
your valor has secured. Commander Evangeline Booth.

WESTERN UNION ANGLO-AMERICAN DIRECT UNITED STATES CABLEGRAM 34 Broadway N.Y. Received at 16
BROAD STREET, NEW YORK

193 F8 PZ FRANCE 31

EVANGELINE BOOTH COMMANDER SALVATION ARMY IN AMERICA NEW YORK

TRES TOUCHE DU SENTIMENT ELEVE QUI A INSPIRE VOTRE TELEGRAMME JE VOUS ADRESSE AINSI QU'A VOS
ADHERENTS MES SINCERES REMERCIEMENTS

        MARECHAL FOCH

I am deeply touched by the high sentiment which inspired your cablegram, and I tender you and
your adherents sincere thanks.

        MARSHAL FOCH

Letter from Sir Douglas Haig

Just before leaving London on Thursday for his provincial campaigns, General Booth received
the following letter from Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig. The generous tribute will be read
with intense satisfaction by Salvationists the world over:

General Headquarters, British Armies in France. March 27, 1918.

I am glad to have the opportunity of congratulating the Salvation Army on the service which
its representatives have rendered during the past year to the British Armies in France.

The Salvation Army workers have shown themselves to be of the right sort and I value their
presence here as being one of the best influences on the moral and spiritual welfare of the
troops at the bases. The inestimable value of these influences is realized when the morale
of the troops is afterwards put to the test at the front.

The huts which the Salvation Army has staffed have besides been an addition to the comfort
of the soldiers which has been greatly appreciated.

I shall be glad if you will convey the thanks of all ranks of the British Expeditionary Forces
in France to the Salvation Army for its continued good work.

D. Haig, Field Marshal, Commanding British Armies in France.

The Following Message from Marshal Joffre:

Miss Evangeline Booth, Apr. 9, 1919. New York City.

"President Wilson has said that the work of the Salvation Army on the Franco-American front
needs no praise in view of the magnificent results obtained and remains only to be admired
and congratulated. I cannot do better than to use the same words which I am sure express the
sentiments of all French soldiers.     "J. Joffre."

From Field Marshal Viscount French.

"Of all the organizations that have come into existence during the past fifty years none has
done finer work or achieved better results in all parts of the Empire than the Salvation Army.
In particular, its activities have been of the very greatest benefit to the soldiers in this war."

June 16, 1918.

Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, writing from Oyster Bay, Long Island, under date of April 11, 1918,
has the following to say to the War Work Executive of the Salvation Army:

"I was greatly interested in your letter quoting the letter from my son now with Pershing in
France. His testimony as to the admirable work done by the Salvation Army agrees with all my
own observations as to what the Salvation Army has done in war and in peace. You have had to
enlarge enormously your program and readjust your work in order to meet the need of the vast
number of soldiers and sailors serving our country overseas; and you must have funds to help
you. I am informed that over 40,000 Salvationists are in the ranks of the Allied armies. I
can myself bear testimony to the fact that you have a practical social service, combined with
practical religion, that appeals to multitudes of men who are not reached by the regular churches;
and I know that you were able to put your organization to work in France before the end of
the first month of the World War. I am glad to learn that you do not duplicate or parallel
the work done by any other organization, and that you are in constant touch with the War Work
Councils of such organizations as the Y. M. C. A. and the Bed Cross. I happen to know that
you are now maintaining and operating 168 huts behind the lines in France, together with 70
hostels, and that you have furnished 46 ambulances, manned and officered by Salvationists.
I am particularly interested to learn that 6000 women are knitting under the direction of the
Salvation Army, and with materials furnished by this organization here in America, in order
to turn out garments and useful articles for the soldiers at the Front.

"Faithfully yours,

"(Signed) Theodore Roosevelt."

April 21st, 1919.

Commander Evangeline Booth, 120 West 14th Street, New York, N. Y.

Dear Commander Booth:

I have known the Salvation Army from its beginning.

The mother of the Salvation Army was Mrs. Catherine Booth, and her common sense and Christian
spirit laid the foundations; while her husband, General William Booth, in his impressive frame,
fertility of ideas, and invincible spirit of evangelism always seemed to me as if he were closely
related to St. Peter, the fisherman--the man of ideas and many questions, of the Lord's family.

General William Booth was of a discipleship that kept him always on the "long, long trail"
with a self-sacrificing spirit, but with a cheerfulness that heard the nightingales in the
early mornings that awakened him to duty and service. He was never tired. The Salvation Army
under the present leadership of your brother, Bramwell Booth, has "carried on" along the same
roads, and with the same methods, as the great General who has passed into the Beyond.

The Salvation Army has been itself true to the spirit of its mighty originator during the present
war. No work was too hard; no day was long enough; no duty too simple, no self-denial was too
great.

Prom my personal knowledge, the Salvation Army workers were consecrated to their work. Just
as the brave boys who carried the Flag, they were soldiers fighting a battle, to find comforts,
and a song to put music into the hearts of the noble fellows that now lie sleeping on the ridges
of the Marne, with their graves unmarked save with a cross.

The sleepless vigilance of the Salvation Army extended from their kitchens where they cooked
for the boys, to the hospitals where they prayed with them to the last hour when life ended
in a silence, the stillest of all slumbers.

The Armies of every country in which they labored have a record of their faithfulness and devotion
which will be sealed in the hearts of the many thousands they helped in the days of the struggle
for peace.

The question is, what can we do now to perpetuate the Salvation Army and its work, and my reply
is, that there is nothing they ask or want that should be refused to them. They are worthy;
they are competent; they can be trusted with responsibility; and their splendid leader seems
to have almost a miraculous power for management in the work which her father committed to
her so far as America is concerned.

Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) John Wanamaker.

Cardinal's Residence, 408 Charles Street, Baltimore. April 16, 1919.

Hon. Charles S. Whitman, New York City.

Honorable and Dear Sir:

I have been asked by the local Commander of the Salvation Army to address a word to you as
the National Chairman of the Campaign about to be launched in behalf of the above named organization.
This I am happy to do, and for the reason that, along with my fellow American citizens, I rejoice
in the splendid service which the Salvation Army rendered our Soldier and Sailor Boys during
the war. Every returning trooper is a willing witness to the efficient and generous work of
the Salvation Army both at the Front, and in the camps at home. I am also the more happy to
commend this organization because it is free from sectarian bias. The man in need of help is
the object of their effort, with never a question of his creed or color.

I trust, therefore, your efforts to raise $13,000,000 for the Salvation Army will meet with
a hearty response from our generous American public.

Faithfully yours, James, Cardinal, Gibbons.

Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

Paris, April 7th, 1919.

My Dear Commander Booth:

Those of us who have been fortunate enough to see something of the work of the Salvation Army
with the American troops have been made proud by the devotion and self-sacrifice of the workers
connected with your organization.

I congratulate you and, through you, your associates, and I wish you the best of fortune in
the continuance of your splendid work.

Very sincerely yours, L. M. House.

Commander Evangeline Booth, Salvation Army.

Evangeline Booth, Salvation Army Headquarters, New York.

I have seen the work of the Salvation Army in France and consider it very helpful and valuable.
I trust you will be able to secure the means not only for its maintenance but for the enlargement
of its scope. It is a good work and should be encouraged.

Leonard Wood. Camp Funston, Kansas.

Brigadier-General Duncan wrote to Colonel Barker the following letter:

December 7, 1917.

The Salvation Army in this its first experience with our troops has stepped very closely into
the hearts of the men. Your huts have been open to them at all times. They have been cordially
received in a homelike atmosphere and many needs provided in religious teachings. Your efforts
have the honest support of our chaplains. I have talked with many of our soldiers who are warm
in their praise and satisfaction in what is being done for them. For myself I feel that the
Salvation Army has a real place for its activities with our Army in France and I offer you
and your workers, men and women, good wishes and thanks for what you have done and are doing
for our men.

G. B. Duncan, Brigadier-General.

The Salvation Army is doing a great work in France and every soldier bears testimony to the fact.

Omar Bundy, Major-General.

Headquarters First Division, American Expeditionary Forces.

France, September 15, 1918.

From: Chief of Staff.

To: Major L. Allison Coe, Salvation Army.

Subject: Service in Operation against St. Mihiel Salient.

1. The Division Commander desires me to express to you his appreciation of the particularly
valuable service that the Salvation Army, through you and your assistants, has rendered the
Division during the recent operation against the St. Mihiel salient.

2. You have furnished aid and comfort to the American soldier throughout the trying experiences
of the last few days, and in accomplishing this worthy mission have spared yourself in nothing.

3. The Division Commander wishes me to thank you for the Division and for himself.

CK/T.        Campbell King, Chief of Staff.

CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17,1917.

Commander Miss E, Booth, 120 W. 14th St., New York.

I am glad to be able to express my appreciation of the work done by the Salvation Army in the
way of providing for the comfort and welfare of the Command. I think the efforts of the Salvation
Army are admirable and deserving of appreciation and commendation, and I consider the effort
is made without advertisement and that it reaches and is appreciated by those for whom it is
most needed.

L. P. MURPHY, Lieut.-Colonel of Cavalry.

I wish to express my most sincere appreciation of the work of your organization with my regiment.
Your Officer has done everything that could be expected of any organization in carrying on
his work with the soldiers of this command, and has surpassed any such expectations. He has
assisted the soldiers in every way possible and has gained their hearty good will. He has also
shown himself willing and anxious to carry out regulations and orders affecting his organization.
As a matter of fact, all the officers and soldiers of this command are most enthusiastic about
the help of the Salvation Army, and you can hear nothing but praise for its work. The work
of your organization, both religious and material, has been wholesome and dignified, and I
desire you to know that it is appreciated.

J. L. HINES, Colonel, Sixteenth Infantry.

In sending a contribution toward the expenses of the War Work, Colonel George B. McClellan wrote:

Treasurer, Salvation Army,       July 24, 1918. 120 West 14th Street, New York City.

DEAR SIR:

All the Officers I have talked with who have been in the trenches have enthusiastically praised
the work the Salvation Army is doing at the front. They are agreed that for coolness under
fire, cheerfulness under the most adverse conditions, kindness, helpfulness and real efficiency,
your workers are unsurpassed.

Will you accept the enclosed check as my modest contribution to your War Fund, and believe me to be

Yours very truly, GEO. B. MCCLELLAND Lt.-Col. Ord. The work they have done for the enlisted
men of the Division and the places of amusement and recreation that they have provided for
them, are of the highest order. I unhesitatingly state that, in my opinion, the Salvation Army
has done more for the enlisted men of the First Division than any other organization or society
operating in France.

F. G. LAWTON, Colonel, Infantry, National Army.

To WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

The work of the Salvation Army as illustrated by the work of Major S. H. Atkins is duplicated
by no one. He has been Chaplain and more besides. He has the confidence of officers and men.
Major Atkins, as typifying the Salvation Army, has been forward at the very front with what
is even more important than the rear area work.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

The following letter was sent to Major Atkins of the Salvation Army:

Headquarters, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry, France, December 26, 1917.

I wish to thank you for the great work you have been doing here among the men of this battalion.
You have added greatly to the happiness and contentment of us all; giving, as you have, an
opportunity for good, clean entertainment and pleasure.

In religious work you have done much. As you know, this regiment has no chaplain, and you have
to a large extent taken the place of one here.

For myself, and on behalf of the officers stationed here, I wish to express my appreciation
of the work that you have been doing here, and the hope that you can accompany the battalion
wherever the fortune of war may lead us.

Wishing you a very happy and successful New Year, I am

Yours sincerely, (Signed) THEODORE ROOSEVELT, JR., Major (U.S.R.), 26th Infantry.

When Captain Archibald Roosevelt was lying wounded in Red Cross Hospital No. 1 he wrote the
following letter to the same officer:

Red Cross Hospital No. 1.

July 10, 1918.

"You have, by your example, helped the men morally and physically. By your continued presence
in the most dangerous and uncomfortable periods, you have made yourself the comrade and friend
of every officer and man in our battalion. It is in this way that you have filled a position
which the other charitable organizations had left vacant.

"Let me also mention that, perfect Democrat that you are, you have realized the necessity of
discipline, and have helped make the discipline understood by these men and officers.

"If all the Salvation Army workers are like you, I sincerely hope to see the time when there
is a Salvation Army officer with each battalion in the camp."

Before leaving France for the United States, two Salvation Army lassies received the following
letter:

I was very sorry to hear that you had been taken from this division, and desire to express
my appreciation of the excellent assistance you have been to us.

In all of our "shows" you have been with us, and I wish that I knew of the many sufferers you
have cheered and made more comfortable. They are many and, I am positive, will always have
grateful thoughts of you.

I have seen you enduring hardships--going without food and sleep, working day and night, sometimes
under fire, both shell and avion--and never have you been anything but cheerful and willing.

I thank you and your organization for all of this, and assure you of the respect and gratitude
of the entire division.

J. I. MABEE, Colonel, Medical Corps, Division Surgeon.

CABLE.

January 17, 1918.

The Salvation Army, New York:

As Inspector General of the First Division I have inspected all the Salvation Army huts in
this Division area and I am glad to inform you that your work here is a well-earned success.
Your huts are warm, dry, light, and, I believe, much appreciated by all the men in this Division.
To make these huts at all homelike under present conditions requires energy and ability. I
know that the Salvation Army men in this Division have it and am very willing to so testify.

CONRAD S. BABCOCK, Lieut.-Colonel, Inspector General, First Division.

"The Salvation Army keeps open house, and any time that a body of men come back from the front
lines, in from a convoy, there is hot coffee and sometimes home-made doughnuts (all free to
the men). I was in command of a town where the hut never closed till 3 or 4 in the morning,
and their girls baked pies and made doughnuts up to the front, under shell fire, for our infantrymen.
A Salvation Army lassie is safe without an escort anywhere in France where there is an American
soldier. That speaks for itself. I am for any organization that is out to do something for
my men, and I think that it is the idea of the American people when they give their money.
What we want is someone who is willing to come over here and do something for the boys, regardless
of the fact that it may not net any gain--in fact, may not help them to gather enough facts
for a lecture tour when they return home."

Headquarters, Third Division, September 5,1918.

MY DEAR MR. LEFFINGWELL:

Your letter of July 22d just received. It has, perhaps, been somewhat delayed in reaching me,
owing to the fact that I have recently been transferred to another division. I only wish things
had been so that I might have granted you or a representative of the Salvation Army an interview
when I was in the States recently, but, being under orders, I could wait for nothing. Whatever
I may have said, in a casual way, of the work of the Salvation Army in France, I assure you
was all deserved. Your organization has been doing a splendid work for the men of my former
division and other troops who have come in contact with it. I have often remarked, as have
many of the officers, that after the war the Salvation Army is going to receive such a boom
from the boys who have come in touch with it over here that it will seem like a veritable propaganda!
Why shouldn't it? For your work has been conducted in such a quiet, unostentatious, unselfish
way that only a man whose sensibilities are dead can fail to appreciate it. I have found several
of your workers, whose names at this moment I am unable to recall, putting up with all sorts
of hardships and inconveniences, working from daylight until well into the night that the boys
might be cheered in one way or another. Your shacks have always been at the disposal of the
chaplains for their regimental services. Whether Mass for the Catholic chaplains or Holy Communion
for an Episcopalian chaplain, they always found a place to set up their altars in the Salvation
Army huts; and the Protestant chaplains, also the Jewish, always, to my knowledge, were given
its use for their services. I have found your own services have been very acceptable to the
boys, in general, but perhaps your doughnut program, with hot coffee or chocolate, means as
much as anything. Not that, like those of old, we follow the Salvation Army because we can
get filled up, but we all like their spirit. More than on one occasion do I know of troops
moving at night--and pretty wet and hungry--that have been warmed and fed and sent on their
way with new courage because of what some Salvation Army worker and hut furnished. And as they
went their way many fine things were said about the Salvation Army. I am sure, as a result
of this work, you have won the favor and confidence of hundreds of these soldier lads, and,
if I am not terribly mistaken, when we get home the Salvation tambourine will receive greater
consideration than heretofore.

I am glad to express my feelings for your work. God bless you in it, and always!

Sincerely yours,

LYMAN BOLLINS, Division Chaplain, Headquarters, Third Division, A. E. F., via New York.

At the Front in France, June 12, 1918.

Commissioner Thomas Estill, Salvation Army, Chicago.

MY DEAR COMMISSIONER:

We are engaged in a great battle. My time is all taken with our wounded and dead. Still I cannot
resist the temptation to take a few moments in which to express our appreciation of the splendid
aid given our soldiers by the Salvation Army.

The work of the Salvation Army is not in duplication of that of any other organization. It
is entirely original and unique. It fills a long-felt want. Some day the world will know the
aid that you have rendered our soldiers. Then you will receive every dollar you need.

Your work is also greatly appreciated by the French people. I have never heard a single unfavorable
comment on the Salvation Army. They are respected everywhere. Their unselfish devotion to our
well, sick, wounded and dead is above any praise that I can bestow. God will surely greatly
reward them.

I heartily congratulate you on the class of workers you have sent over here. I pray that your
invaluable aid may be extended to our troops everywhere. God bless you and yours,

In His name, (Signed) THOMAS J. DICKSON, Chaplain with rank of Major, Sixth Field Artillery,
First Division, U. S. Army.

An appreciation written concerning the first Salvation Army chaplain that was appointed after
the war started:

Camp Cody, New Mexico,

January 16, 1918.

Major E. C. Clemans, 136th Infantry, Camp Cody, N. M.

Commissioner Thomas Estill, Chicago, Ill.

I have been associated with the chaplain now for nearly four months. I have found him a Christian
soldier and gentleman. He is "on the job" all the time and no Chaplain in this Division is
doing more faithful and effective work. He is thoroughly evangelistic, is burdened for the
souls of his men and is working for their salvation not in but from their sins. He is a "man's
man," knows how to approach men and knows how and does get hold of their affections in such
a way that he is a help and a comfort to them. He brings things to pass.

The Salvation Army may be well pleased that it is so well represented in the Army as it is
by Chaplain Kline.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) EZRA C. CLEMANS, Senior Chaplain, 34th Division.

July 11, 1918.

I have been familiar with the work of the Salvation Army for years, and the organization from
the beginning of the war has been doing a wonderful work with the Allied forces and since the
entering of the United States into the struggle has given splendid aid and cooperation not
only in connection with the war activities at home but also with our forces abroad. Their work
is entitled to the sincere admiration of every American citizen.

MAJOR EDWIN F. GLENN.

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

It gives me the greatest pleasure to testify to the very excellent work of the Salvation Army
as I have seen it in this division. I have seen the work done by this organization for ten
months, under all sorts of conditions, and it has always been of the highest character. At
the start, the Salvation Army was handicapped by lack of funds, but even under adverse conditions,
it did most valuable work in maintaining cheerful recreation centres for the men, often in
places exposed to hostile shell- fire. The doughnut and pie supply has been maintained. This
seems a little thing, but it has gone a long way to keep the men cheerful. All the Salvation
Army force has been untiring in its work under very trying conditions, and as a result, I believe
it has gained the respect and affection of officers and men more than any similar organization.

ALBERT J. MYERS, JR., Major, National Army. 1st Div., A. E. F. (Captain, Cavalry, U.S.A.)

Extract from letter from Captain Charles W. Albright: Q. M., R. C., France.

"As to the Salvation Army, well, if they wanted our boys to lie down for them to walk on, to
keep their feet from getting muddy, the boys would gladly do so.

"From everyone, officers and men alike, nothing but the highest praise is given the Salvation
Army. They are right in the thick of danger, comforting and helping the men in the front line,
heedless of shot, shell or gas, the U. S. Army in France, as a unit, swears by the Salvation Army.

"I am proud to have a sister in their ranks."

An old regular army officer who returned to Paris last week said:

"I wish every American who has stood on street corners in America and sneered at the work of
the Salvation Army could see what they are doing for the boys in France.

"They do not proclaim that they are here for investigation or for getting atmosphere for War
romances. They have not come to furnish material for Broadway press agents. They do not wear,
'Oh, such becoming uniforms,' white shoes, dainty blue capes and bonnets, nor do they frequent
Paris tea rooms where the swanky British and American officers put up.

"Take it from me, these women are doing almighty fine work. There are twenty-two of them here
in France. We army men have given them shell- shattered and cast-off field kitchens to work
with, and oh, man, the doughnuts, the pancakes and the pies they turn out!

"I'm an old army officer, but what I like about the Salvation Army is that it doesn't cater
to officers. It is for the doughboys first, last and all the time. The Salvation Army men do
not wear Sam Browne belts; they do as little handshaking with officers as possible.

"They cash the boys' checks without question, and during the month of April in a certain division
the Salvation Army sent home $20,000 for the soldiers. The Rockefeller Foundation hasn't as
yet given the Salvation Army a million-dollar donation to carry on its work. Fact is, I don't
know just how the Salvation Army chaplains and lassies do get along. But get along they do.

"Perhaps some of the boys and officers give them a lift now and then when the sledding is rough.
They don't aim to make a slight profit as do some other organizations.

"Ever since Cornelius Hickey put up 'Hickey's Hut,' the first Salvation Army hut in France,
they have been working at a loss. I saw an American officer give a Salvation Army chaplain
500 francs out of his pay at a certain small town in France recently.

"The work done in 'Hickey's Hut' did much to endear the Salvation folks to the doughboys. When
a letter arrived in France some months ago addressed only to 'Hickey's Hut, France,' it reached
its destination toute de suite, forty-eight hours after it arrived.

"The French climate has hit our boys hard. It is wet and penetratingly cold. Goes right to
the marrow, and three suits of underwear are no protection against it. When the lads returned
from training camp or the trenches, wet, cold, hungry and despondent, they found a welcome
in 'Hickey's Hut.'

"Not a patronizing, holier-than-thou, we-know-we-are-doing-a-good-work- and-hope-you-doughboys-appreciate-it
sort of a welcome, but a good old Salvation Army, Bowery Mission welcome, such as Tim Sullivan
knew how to hand out in the old days.

"Around a warm fire with men who spoke their own language and who did not pretend to be above
them in the social scale the doughboys forgot that they were four thousand miles from home
and that they couldn't 'sling the lingo.'

"I saw a group of lads on the Montdidier front who had not been paid in three months, standing
cursing their luck. They had no money, therefore, they could not buy anything.

"The Salvation Army had been apprised by telegraph that the doughboys were playing in hard
luck. Presto! Out from Paris came a truck loaded with everything to eat. The truck was unloaded
and the boys paid for whatever they wanted with slips of paper signed with their John Hancocks.
The Salvation Army lassies asked no questions, but accepted the slips of paper as if they were
Uncle Sam's gold.

"And one of the most useful institutions in Europe where war rages is one that has no publicity
bureau and has no horns to toot. This is the Salvation Army. In the estimation of many, the
Salvation Army goes way ahead of the work of many of the other war organizations working here.
I see brave women and young women of the Salvation Army every day in places that are really
hazardous."

First Lieutenant Marion M. Marcus, Jr., Field Artillery, wrote to one of our leading officers:

October 9, 1918.

"If the people at home could see the untiring and absolute devotion of the workers of the Salvation
Army, in serving and caring for our men, they would more than give you the support you ask.
The way the men and women expose themselves to the dangers of the front lines and hardships
has more than endeared them to every member of the American Expeditionary Forces, and they
are always in the right spot with cheer of hot food and drink when it is most appreciated."

EXTRACT FROM LETTER.

"Away up front where things break hard and rough for us, and we are hungry and want something
hot, we can usually find it in some old partly destroyed building, which has been organized
into a shack by--well, guess --the Salvation Army.

"They are the soldier's friend. They make no display or show of any kind, but they are fast
winning a warm corner in the heart of everyone."

"I feel it is my duty to drop you a few lines to let you know how the boys over here appreciate
what the Salvation Army is doing for them. It is a second home to us. There is always a cheerful
welcome awaiting us there and I have yet to meet a sour-faced cleric behind the counter. One
Salvation Army worker has his home in a cellar, located close to the front-line trenches. He
cheerfully carries on his wonderful work amid the flying of shells and in danger of gas. He
is one fine fellow, always greeting you with a smile. He serves the boys with hot coffee every
day, free of charge, and many times he has divided his own bread with the tired and hungry
boys returning from the trenches. In the evening he serves coffee and doughnuts at a small
price. Say, who wouldn't be willing to fight after feasting on that?

"In the many rest camps you will find the Salvation Army girls. They are located so close to
the front-line trenches that they have to wear their gas masks in the slung position, and they
also have their tin hats ready to put on. The girls certainly are a fine, jolly bunch, and
when it comes to baking pies and doughnuts they are hard to beat. The boys line up a half hour
before time so as to be sure they get their share. I had the pleasure of talking to a mother
and her daughter and they told me they had sold out everything they had to the boys with the
exception of some salmon and sardines on which they were living--salmon for dinner and sardines
for supper. They stood it all with big smiles and those smiles made me smile when I thought
of my troubles.

"In the trenches the boys become affected with body lice, known as cooties. A good hot bath
is the only real cure for them. While on the way to a bath-house a Salvation Army worker overtook
us. He was riding in a Ford which had seen better days. The springs on it were about all in
and it made a noise like someone calling for mercy. The Salvation Army worker pulled up in
front of us and with a broad smile on his face said: "Room for half a ton!" We did not need
a second invitation and we soon had poor Henry loaded down. I thought sure it would give out,
but the worker only laughed about it and kept on feeding the machine more gas as we cheered
until it started away with us.

"I want to tell you what the Salvation Army does for the moral side of the soldier. The American
soldier needs the guidance of God over here more than he ever did in his whole life. Away from
home and in a foreign land in every corner, one must have Divine guidance to keep him on the
narrow path of life. If it was not for the workers of God over here the boys would gradually
break away and then I'm afraid we would not have the right kind of fighters to hold up our
end. Of course, prayers alone won't satisfy the appetite of the American soldier, and the Salvation
Army girls get around that by baking for the boys. They believe in satisfying the cravings
of the stomach as well as the craving of the soul and mind. I always enjoy the sermons at the
Salvation Army. A good, every-day sermon is always appreciated. The Salvation Army helps you
along in their good old way, and they don't believe in preaching all day on what you should
do and what you shouldn't do. The girls are a fine bunch of singers and their singing is enjoyed
very much by all of the boys. It is a treat to see an American girl so close to the front and
a still better treat to listen to one sing.

"The Salvation Army does much good work in keeping the boys in the right spirit so that they
are glad to go back to the trenches when their turn comes. There is no Salvation Army hut on
this front. I often wish there was one on every front. I believe the Salvation Army does not
get its full credit over in the States. Perhaps the people over there do not understand the
full meaning of the work it is doing over here. I want the Salvation Army to know that it has
all of the boys over here back of it and we want to keep up the good work. We will go through
hell, if necessary, because we know the folks back home are back of us. We want the Salvation
Army to feel the same way. The boys over here are really back of it and we want you to continue
your good work."

"There is just one thing more I wish to speak of, and that is the little old Salvation Army.
You will never see me, nor any of the other boys over here, laugh at their street services
in the future, and if I see anyone else doing that little thing that person is due for a busted
head! I haven't seen where they are raising a tenth the money some of the other societies are,
but they are the topnotchers of them all as the soldiers' friend, and their handouts always
come at the right time. Some of those girls work as hard as we do."

"The Salvation Army over here is doing wonderful work. They haven't any shows or music, but
they certainly know what pleases the boys most, and feed us with homemade apple pie or crullers,
with lemonade--a great big piece of pie or three crullers, with a large cup of lemonade, for
a franc (18-1/2 cents).

"These people are working like beavers, and the people in the States ought to give them plenty
of credit and appreciate their wonderful help to the men over here."  "We were in a bomb-proof
semi-dugout, in the heart of a dense forest, within range of enemy guns, my Hebrew comrade
and I. We were talking of the fate that brought us here--of the conditions as we left them at home.

"It was the Salvation Army! In a desert of human hearts, many of them wounded with heartache,
these brave, brave servants of the Son of David came to cheer us up and make life more bearable.

"In our outfit are Greeks, Italians, Bohemians, Irish, Jews--all of them loyal Americans--and
the Salvation Army serves each with an impartial self-sacrifice which should forever still
the voices of critics who condemn sending Army lassies over here.

"Those in the ranks are men. The Salvation Army women are admired--almost worshipped--but respected
and safe. Men by the thousands would lay down their lives for the Salvationists, and not till
after the war will the full results of this sacrifice by Salvation Army workers bear fruit.
But now, with so many strong temptations to go the wrong way, here are noble girls roughing
it, smiling at the hardships, singing songs, making doughnuts for the doughboys, and always
reminding us, even in danger, that it is not all of 'life to live,' bringing to us recollections
of our mothers, sisters, and sweethearts, and if anyone questions, 'Is it worth while?' the
answer is: 'A thousand times yes!' and I cannot refrain from sending my hearty thanks for all
this service means to us.

"A few miles in back of us now, a half dozen Connecticut girls representing the Salvation Army
are doing their bit to make things brighter for us, and say, maybe those girls cannot bake.
Every day they furnish us with real homemade crullers and pies at a small cost, and their coffee,
holy smoke! it makes me homesick to even write about it. The girls have their headquarters
in an old tumble-down building and they must have some nerve, for the Boche keeps dropping
shells all around them day and night, and it would only take one of those shells to blow the
whole outfit into kingdom come."

In a letter from a private to his mother while he was lying wounded in the hospital, he says
of the Salvation Army and Red Cross:

"Most emphatically let me say that they both are giving real service to the men here and both
are worthy of any praise or help that can be given them. This is especially so of the Salvation
Army, because it is not fully understood just what they are doing over here. They are the only
ones that, regardless of shells or gas, feed the boys in the trenches and bear home to them
the realization of what God really is at the very moment when our brave lads are facing death.
Their timely phrases about the Christ, handed out with their doughnuts and coffee, have turned
many faltering souls back to the path and they will never forget it. 'Man's extremity is God's
opportunity' surely holds good here. You may not realize or think it possible, but a large
majority of the boys carry Bibles and there are often heated arguments over the different phrases.

"I have just turned my pockets inside out and the tambourine could hold no more, but it was
all I had and I am still in debt to the Salvation Army.

"For hot coffee and cookies when I was shivering like an aspen, for buttons and patches on
my tattered uniform, for steering me clear of the camp followers; but more than all for the
cheery words of solace for those 'gone West,' for the blessed face of a woman from the homeland
in the midst of withering blight and desolation--for these I am indebted to the Salvation Army."

CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17, 1917.

Commander Miss E. Booth, 120 W. 14th Street, New York, N. Y.

Being a Private, I am one of the many thousands who enjoy the kindnesses and thoughtful recreation
in the Salvation hut. The huts are always crowded when the boys are off duty, for 'tis there
we find warmth of body and comradeship, pleasures in games and music, delight in the palatable
refreshments, knowledge in reading periodicals, convenience in the writing material at our
disposal, and other home-like touches for enjoyment. The courtesy and good-will of the hut
workers, combined with these good things, makes the huts a resort of real comfort with the
big thought of salvation in Christ predominating over all. Appreciation of these huts, and
all they mean to the soldier in this terrible war, rises full in all our hearts.

CLINTON SPENCER, Private, Motor Action.

"I just used to love to listen to the Salvation Army at 6th and Penn Streets, but I never dreamed
of seeing them over here. And when I first saw four girls cooking and baking all day I wondered
what it was all about.

"But I didn't have long to find out, for that night I saw these same girls put on their gas
masks at the alert and start for the trenches. Then I started to ask about them. I never spoke
to the girls, but fellows who had been in the trenches told me that they came up under shell
fire to give the boys pies or doughnuts or little cakes or cocoa or whatever they had made
that day. I thought that great of the Salvation Army. And many a boy who got help through them
has a warm spot in his heart for them.

"You can see by the paper I write on who gave it to us. It is Salvation Army paper. Altogether
I say give three hearty cheers for the Salvation Army and the girls who risk their own lives
to give our boys a little treat."

"I am going to crow about our real friends here--and it is the verdict of all the boys--it
is the Salvation Army, Joe. That is the boys' mother and father here. It is our home. They
have a treat for us boys every night--that is, cookies, doughnuts or pie--about 9 o'clock.
But that is only a little of them. The big thing is the spirit--the feeling a boy gets of being
home when he enters the hut and meets the lassies and lads who call themselves the soldiers
of Christ, and we are proud to call them brother soldiers. We think the world of them! So,
Joe, whenever you get a chance to do the Salvation Army a good turn, by word or deed, do so,
as thereby you will help us. When we get back we are going to be the Salvation Army's big friend,
and you will see it become one of the United States' great organizations."

"My life as a soldier is not quite as easy as it was in Rochester, but still I am not going
to give up my religion, and I am not ashamed to let the other fellows know that I belong to
the Salvation Army. Sometimes they try to get me to smoke or go and have a glass of beer with
them, but I tell them that I am a Salvationist. There are twenty fellows in a hut, so they
used to make fun at me when I used to say my prayers. Once in awhile I used to have a pair
of shoes or a coat or something, thrown at me. I used to think what I could do to stop them
throwing things at me, so I thought of a plan and waited. It was two or three nights before
they threw anything again. One night, as I was saying my prayers, someone threw his shoes at
me. After I got through I picked up the shoes and took out my shoe brushes and polished and
cleaned the shoes thrown at me, and from that night to now I have never had a thing thrown
at me. The fellow came to me in a little while and said he was sorry he had thrown them. There
are four or five Salvationists in our company--one was a Captain in the States. The Salvation
Army has three big huts here among the soldier boys. We have some nice meetings here, and they
have reading-rooms and writing and lunch-rooms, so I spend most of my time there."

LETTER OF COMMENDATION RE SALVATION ARMY.

U.S.S. Point Bonita,       15 October, 1918.

Miss Evangeline Booth, Commander, Care of Salvation Army Headquarters, 14th Street, New York City.

DEAR MISS BOOTH:--

We want to thank you for presenting our crew with an elegant phonograph and 25 records. We
are all going to take up a collection and buy a lot of records and I guess we will be able
to pass the time away when we are not on watch.

We have a few men in the crew who have made trips across on transports and they say that every
soldier and sailor has praised the Salvation Army way- up-to-the-sky for all the many kindnesses
shown them.

We also want to thank you for the kindness shown to one of our crew. The Major who gave us
the present was the best yet and so was the gentleman who drove the auto about ten miles to
our ship. That is the Salvation Army all over. During the war or in times of peace, your organization
reaches the hearts of all.

We all would like to thank Mr. Leffingwell for his great kindness in helping us.

The undersigned all have the warmest sort of feeling for you and the Salvation Army.

Many, many thanks, from the ship's crew.

"I was down to the Salvation Army the other day helping them cook doughnuts and they sure did
taste good, and the fellows fairly go crazy to get them, too. Anything that is homemade don't
last long around here, and when they get candy or anything sweet there is a line about a block
long.

"Notice the paper this is written on? Well, I can't say enough about them. They sure are a
treat to us boys, and almost every night they have good eats for us. One night it is lemonade,
pies and coffee, and the next it is doughnuts and coffee, and they are just like mother makes.
There are two girls here that run the place, and they are real American girls, too. The first
I have seen since I have been in France, and I'll say they are a treat!

"Hogan and I have been helping them, and now I cook pies and doughnuts as well as anyone. We
sure do have a picnic with them and enjoy helping out once in awhile. One thing I want you
to do is to help the Salvation Army all you can and whenever you get a chance to lend a helping
hand to them do it, for they sure have done a whole lot for your boy, and if you can get them
a write-up in the papers, why do it and I will be happy."

FROM LORD DERBY.

"The splendid work which the Salvation Army has done among the soldiers during the war is one
for which I, as Secretary of State for War, should like to thank them most sincerely; it is
a work which is deserving of all support."

STATE OF NEW JERSEY EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT TRENTON.

MY DEAR MR. BATTLE:      December 27, 1917.

I have learned of the campaign of the Salvation Army to raise money for its war activities.
The work of the Salvation Army is at all times commendable and deserving, but particularly
so in its relation to the war.

I sincerely hope that the campaign will be very successful. Cordially yours,

(Signed) WALTER B. EDGE,

Mr. George Gordon Battle, Governor. General Chairman, 37 Wall Street, New York City.

GOVERNOR CHARLES S. WHITMAN'S ADDRESS AT LUNCHEON AT HOTEL TEN EYCK, ALBANY, NEW YORK, DECEMBER
8, 1917.

"I take especial pleasure in offering my tribute of respect and appreciation to the Salvation
Army. I have known of its work as intimately as any man who is not directly connected with
the organization. In my position as a judge and a district attorney of New York City for many
years, I always found the Salvation Army a great help in solving the various problems of the
poor, the criminal and distressed.

"Frequently while other agencies, though good, hesitated, there was never a case where there
was a possibility that relief might be brought--never was a case of misery or violence so low,
that the Salvation Army would not undertake it.

"The Salvation Army lends its manhood and womanhood to go 'Over There' from our States, and
our State, to labor with those who fight and die. There is very little we can do, but we can
help with our funds."

"The Salvation Army is worthy of the support of all right-thinking people. Its main purpose
is to reclaim men and women to decency and good citizenship. This purpose is being prosecuted
not only with energy and enthusiasm but with rare tact and judgment.

"The sphere of the Army's operations has now been extended to the battlefields of Europe, where
its consecrated workers will cooperate with the Y.M.C.A., K. of C., and kindred organizations.

"It gives me pleasure to commend the work of this beneficent organization, and to urge our
people to remember its splendid service to humanity.

"Very truly yours, "ALBERT E. SLEEPER, "Governor."

Endorsement of January 25, 1918. Governor Hugh M. Dorsey, of Georgia.

The Salvation Army has been a potent force for good everywhere, so far as I know. They are
rendering to our soldiers "somewhere in France" the most invaluable aid, ministering not only
to their spiritual needs, but caring for them in a material way. This they have done without
the blare of trumpets.

Many commanding officers certify to the fact that the Salvation Army is not only rendering
most effective work, but that this work is of a distinctive character and of a nature not covered
by the activities of other organizations ministering to the needs of the soldier boys. In other
words, they are filling that gap in the army life which they have always so well filled in
the civil life of our people.

STATE OF UTAH EXECUTIVE OFFICE

Salt Lake City, January 21, 1918.

"I have learned with a great deal of interest of the splendid work being done by the Salvation
Army for the moral uplift of the soldiers, both in the training camps and in the field. I am
very glad to endorse this work and to express the hope that the Salvation Army may find a way
to continue and extend its work among the soldiers."

(Signed) SIMON BAMBERG, Governor.

FROM A PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR BRUMBAUGH.

To the People of Pennsylvania:

I have long since learned to believe in the great, good work of the Salvation Army and have
given it my approval and support through the years. This mighty body of consecrated workers
are like gleaners in the fields of humanity. They seek and succor and save those that most
need and least receive aid.  Now, THEREFORE, I, Martin G. Brumbaugh, Governor of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, do cordially commend the work of the Salvation Army and call upon our people
to give earnest heed to their call for assistance, making liberal donations to their praiseworthy
work and manifesting thus our continued and resolute purpose to give our men in arms unstinted
aid and to support gladly all these noble and sacrificing agencies that under God give hope
and help to our soldiers.

[SEAL]

GIVEN under my hand and the great seal of the State, at the City of Harrisburg, this seventh
day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and eighteen, and of the
Commonwealth the one hundred and forty-second.

By the Governor: Secretary of the Commonwealth. copy/h

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Executive Department, State House, Boston, February 15, 1918.

It gives me pleasure to add my word of approval to the very noble work that is being done by
the Salvation Army for the men now serving the country. The Salvation Army has for many years
been doing very valuable work, and the extension of its labors into the ranks of the soldiers
has not lessened in any degree its power of accomplishment. The Salvation Army can render most
efficient service. It should be the aim of every one of us in Massachusetts to assist in every
way the work that is being done for the soldiers. We cannot do too much of this kind of work
for them--they deserve and need it all. I urge everybody in Massachusetts to assist the Salvation
Army in every way possible, to the end that Massachusetts may maintain her place in the forefront
of the States of the Union who are assisting the work of the Army.

(Signed) SAMUEL W. McCALL, Governor.

PROCLAMATION.

To the People of the State of Maryland:

I have been very much impressed with the good work which is being done in this country by the
Salvation Army, and I am not at all surprised at the great work which it is doing at the front,
upon or near the battlefields of Europe. It is doing not only the same kind of work being done
by the Y.M.C.A. and the Knights of Columbus, but work in fields decidedly their own.

It is now undertaking to raise $1,000,000 for the National War Service and it is preparing
a hutment equipped with libraries, daily newspapers, games, light refreshments, etc., in every
camp in France.

Now, THEREFORE, I, Emerson C. Harrington, Governor of Maryland, believing that the effect and
purposes for which the Salvation Army is asking this money, are deserving of our warmest support,
do hereby call upon the people of Maryland to respond as liberally as they can in this war
drive being made by the Salvation Army to enable them more efficiently to render service which
is so much needed.

[The Great Seal of the State of Maryland]

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused to be hereto affixed the Great
Seal of Maryland at Annapolis, Maryland, this fourteenth day of February, in the year one thousand
nine hundred and eighteen.

EMERSON C. HARRINGTON.

By the Governor, THOS. W. SIMMONS, Secretary of State.

"The Salvation Army is peculiarly equipped for this kind of service. I have watched the career
of this organization for many years, and I know its leaders to be devoted and capable men and
women.

"Of course, any agency which can in any way ameliorate the condition of the boys at the front
should receive encouragement."

(Signed) FRANK C. LOWDEN, Governor of Illinois.

"I join with thousands of my fellow citizens in having a great admiration for the splendid
work which has already been accomplished by the Salvation Army in the alleviation of suffering,
the spiritual uplift of the masses, and its substantial and prayerful ministrations.

"The Salvation Army does its work quietly, carefully, persistently and effectively. Our patriotic
citizenry will quickly place the stamp of approval upon the great work being done by the Salvation
Army among the private soldiers at home and abroad."

(Signed) Governor BROUGH of Arkansas.

Lansing, Michigan, June 13, 1918.

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

Among the various organizations doing war work in connection with the American Army, none are
found more worthy of support than the Salvation Army. Entering into its work with the whole-hearted
zeal which has characterized its movement in times of peace, it has won the highest praise
of both officers and soldiers alike.

It is an essential pleasure to commend the work of the Salvation Army to the people of Michigan
with the urgent request that its war activities be given your generous support.

ALBERT E. SLEEPER, Governor of the State of Michigan.

MARK E. McKEE, Secretary, Counties Division, Michigan War Board.

STATE OF KANSAS ARTHUR CAPPER, GOVERNOR, TOPEKA

August 8, 1917.

I have been greatly pleased with the war activities of the Salvation Army and want to express
my appreciation of the splendid service rendered by that organization on the battlefield of
Europe ever since the war began. It is a most commendable and a most patriotic thing to do
and I hope the people of Kansas will give the enterprise their generous support.

Very respectfully, (Signed) ARTHUR CAPPER, Governor.

"Best wishes for the success of your work. As the Salvation Army has done so much good in time
of peace, it has multiplied opportunities to do good in the horrors of war, if given the necessary
means."

(Signed) MILES POINDEXTER, Senator from Washington. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WASHINGTON, D. C.

January 8, 1918.

Colonel Adam Gifford, Salvation Army, 8 East Brookline Street, Boston, Mass.

MY DEAR COLONEL GIFFORD:

I desire to write you in highest commendation of the work the Salvation Army is doing in France.
During last November I was behind the French and English fronts, and unless one has been there
they cannot realize the assistance to spirit and courage given to the soldiers by the "hut"
service of the Salvation Army.

The only particular in which the Salvation Army fell short was that there were not sufficient
huts for the demands of the troops. The huts I saw were crowded and not commodious.

Behind the British front I heard several officers state that the service of the Salvation Army
was somewhat different from other services of the same kind, but most effective.

With kindest regards, I remain, Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) GEOEGE HOLDEN TINKHAM, Congressman.

This Condolence Card conveyed the sympathy of the Commander to the friends of the fallen. Forethought
had prepared this some time before the first American had made the supreme sacrifice.

"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"The comfort and solace contained in the beautiful card of sympathy I recently received from
you is more than you can ever know. With all my heart I am very grateful to you and can only
assure you feebly of my deep appreciation.

"It has made me realize more than ever before the fundamental principles of Christianity upon
which your Army is built and organized, for how truly does it comfort the widow and fatherless
in their affliction.

"Tucked away as my two babies and I are in a tiny Wisconsin town, we felt that our grief, while
shared in by our good friends, was just a passing emotion to the rest of the world. But when
a card such as yours comes, extending a heart of sympathy and prayer and ferrets us out in
our sorrow in our little town, you must know how much less lonely we are because of it. It
surely shows us that a sacrifice such as my dear husband made is acknowledged and lauded by
the entire world.

"I am, oh! so proud of him, so comforted to know I was wife to a man so imbued with the principles
of right and justice that he counted no sacrifice, not even his life, too great to offer in
the cause. Not for anything would I ask him back or rob him of the glory of such a death. Yet
our little home is sad indeed, with its light and life taken away.

"The good you have done before and during the war must be a very great source of gratification
for you, and I trust you may be spared for many years to stretch out your helping hand to the
sorrowing and make us better for having known you.

With deepest gratitude,"

"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"I have just seen your picture in the November Pictorial Review and I do so greatly admire
your splendid character and the great work you are doing.

"I want to thank you for the message of Christian love and sympathy you sent to me upon the
death of my son in July, aeroplane accident in England.

"Without the Christian's faith and the blessed hope of the Gospel we would despair indeed.
A long time ago I learned to pray Thy will be done for my son--and I have tested the promises
and I have found them true.

"May the Lord bless you abundantly in your own heart and in your world wide influence and the
splendid Salvation Army."

"DEAR FRIENDS:

"Words fall far short in expressing our deep appreciation of your comforting words of condolence
and sympathy. Will you accept as a small token of love the enclosed appreciation written by
Professor --------- of the Oberlin College, and a quotation from a letter written August 25th
by our soldier boy, and found among his effects to be opened only in case of his death, and
forwarded to his mother?

I am Yours truly,"

Enclosure:

"November 16, 1918.

"If by any chance this letter should be given to you, as something coming directly from my
heart; you, who are my mother, need have no fear or regret for the personality destined not
to come back to you.

"A mother and father, whose noble ideals they firmly fixed in two sons should rather experience
a deep sense of pride that the young chap of nearly twenty-one years does not come back to
them; for, though he was fond of living, he was also prepared to die with a faith as sound
and steadfast as that of the little children whom the Master took in His arms.

"And more than that, the body you gave to me so sweet and pure and strong, though misused at
times, has been returned to God as pure and undefiled as when you gave it to me. I think there
is nothing that should please you more than that.

  "In My Father's House are many mansions,
  I go to prepare a place for you;
  If it were not so, I would have told you.

"Your Baby boy," (Signed) PAUL. Chatereaux, France. August, 1918.

N. B.--Written on back of the envelope: "To be opened only in case of accident."

"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"Permit me to express through you my deep appreciation of the consoling message from the Salvation
Army on the loss of my brother, Clement, in France. I am indeed grateful for this last thought
from an organization which did so much to meet his living needs and to lessen the hardships
of his service in France. I shall always feel a personal debt to those of you who seemed so
near to him at the end."

"Miss EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"I was greatly touched by the card of sympathy sent me in your name on the occasion of my great
sorrow--and my equally great glory. The death of a husband for the great cause of humanity
is a martyrdom that any soldier's wife, even in her deep grief, is proud to share.

"Thanking you for your helpful message,"

"Miss EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"Of the many cards of condolence received by our family upon the death of my dear brother,
none touched us more deeply than the one sent by you.

"We do indeed appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending words of comfort to people who are
utter strangers to you.

"Accept again, the gratitude of my parents as well as the other members of our family, including
myself.

"May our Heavenly Father bless you all and glorify your good works."

Miss Evangeline Booth,

Commander of the Salvation Army, New York City, N. Y.

DEAR MISS BOOTH:

I beg of you to pardon me for writing you this letter, but I feel that I must. On the 17th
day of March I received a letter from my boy in France, and it reads as follows:

"Somewhere in France, Jan. 15, 1918. "MY DEAR MOTHER:

"I must write you a few lines to tell you that you must not worry about me even though it is
some time since I wrote you. We don't have much time to ourselves out here. I have just come
out of the trenches, and now it is mud, mud, mud, up to one's knees. I often think of the fireplace
at home these cold nights, but, mother, I must tell you that I don't know what we boys would
do if it was not for the Salvation Army. The women, they are just like mothers to the boys.
God help the ones that say anything but good about the Army! Those women certainly have courage,
to come right out in the trenches with coffee and cocoa, etc., and they are so kind and good.
Mother, I want you to write to Miss Booth and thank her for me for her splendid work out here.
When I come home I shall exchange the U. S. uniform for the S.A. uniform, and I know, ma, that
you will not object. Well, the Germans have been raining shells to-day, but we were unharmed.
I passed by an old shack of a building--a poor woman sat there with a baby, lulling it to sleep,
when a shell came down and the poor souls had passed from this earthly hell to their heavenly
reward. Only God knows the conditions out here; it is horrible. Well, I must close now, and
don't worry, mother, I will be home some day.

"Your loving son,"

Well, Miss Booth, I got word three weeks ago that Joseph had been killed in action. I am heart-broken,
but I suppose it was God's will. Poor boy! He has his uniform exchanged for a white robe. I
am all alone now, as he was my only boy and only child. Again I beg of you to pardon me for
sending you this letter.

December 10, 1917.

Commander Evangeline C. Booth, New York City.

MY DEAR COMMANDER:

I have just read in the New York papers of your purpose and plan to raise a million dollars
for your Salvation Army work carried on in the interests of the soldiers at home and abroad,
and I cannot refrain from writing to you to express my deep interest, and also the hope that
you may be successful in raising this fund, because I know that it will be so well administered.

From all that I have heard of the Salvation Army work in connection with the soldiers carried
on under your direction, I think it is simply wonderful, and if there is any service that I
can render you or the Army, I should be exceedingly pleased.

I have read "Souls in Khaki," and I wish that everyone might read it, for could they do so,
your million-dollar fund would be easily raised.

With ever-increasing interest in the Salvation Army, I am,     Cordially yours,

(Signed) J. WILBUR CHAPMAN. Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in
the U.S.A.

SALVATION ARMY IS THE MOST POPULAR ORGANIZATION IN FRANCE.

Raymond B. Fosdick, chairman of the War Recreation Commission, on his return from a tour of
investigation into activities of the relief organizations in France, gave out the following:

"Somewhat to my surprise I found the Salvation Army probably the most popular organization
in France with the troops. It has not undertaken the comprehensive program which the Y.M.C.A.
has laid out for itself; that is, it is operating in three or four divisions, while the Y.
M. C. A. is aiming to cover every unit of troops.

"But its simple, homely, unadorned service seems to have touched the hearts of our men. The
aim of the organization is, if possible, to put a worker and his wife in a canteen or a centre.
The women spend their time making doughnuts and pies, and sew on buttons. The men make themselves
generally useful in any way which their service can be applied.

"I saw such placed in dugouts way up at the front, where the German shells screamed over our
heads with a sound not unlike a freight train crossing a bridge. Down in their dugouts the
Salvation Army folks imperturbably handed out doughnuts and dished out the 'drink.'"

WAR DEPARTMENT COMMISSION ON TRAINING CAMP ACTIVITIES, WASHINGTON

45, Avenue Montaigne, Paris.

Commander Evangeline Booth, Apr. 8, 1919. Salvation Army, New York City.

MY DEAR COMMANDER BOOTH:

The work of the Salvation Army with the armed forces of the United States does not need any
word of commendation from me. Perhaps I may be permitted to say, however, that as a representative
of the War and Navy Departments I have been closely in touch with it from its inception, both
in Europe and in the United States. I do not believe there is a doughboy anywhere who does
not speak of it with enthusiasm and affection. Its remarkable success has been due solely to
the unselfish spirit of service which has underlain it. Nothing has been too humble or too
lowly for the Salvation Army representative to do for the soldier. Without ostentation, without
advertising, without any emphasis upon auspices or organization, your people have met the men
of the Army as friends and companions-in-arms, and the soldiers, particularly those of the
American Expeditionary Force, will never forget what you have done.

Faithfully yours, (Signed) RAYMOND B. FOSDICK.

From Honorable Arthur Stanley, Chairman British Red Cross Society.

BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY JOINT WAR COMMITTEE

83 Pall Mall, London, S. W.,

December 22, 1917.

General Bramwell Booth.

DEAR GENERAL BOOTH:

I enclose formal receipt for the cheque, value L2000, which was handed to me by your representative.
I note that it is a contribution from the Salvation Army to the Joint Funds to provide a new
Salvation Army Motor Ambulance Unit on the same conditions as before.

I cannot sufficiently thank you and the Salvation Army for this very generous donation.

I am indeed glad to know that you are providing another twenty drivers for service with our
Ambulance Fleet in France. This is most welcome news, as whenever Salvation Army men are helping
we hear nothing but good reports of their work. Sir Ernest Clarke tells me that your Ambulance
Sections are quite the best of any in our service, and the more Salvation Army men you can
send him, the better he will be pleased. I would again take this opportunity of congratulating
you, which I do with all my heart, upon the splendid record of your Army.

Yours sincerely,

(Signed) ARTHUR STANLEY.

Extract from Judge Ben Lindsey's picture of the Salvation Army at the Front:

"A good expression for American enthusiasm is: 'I am crazy about'--this, or that, or the other
thing that excites our admiration. Well, 'I am crazy about the Salvation Army'--the Salvation
Army as I saw it and mingled with it and the doughboys in the trenches. And when I happened
to be passing through Chicago to-day and saw an appeal in the Tribune for the Salvation Army,
I remembered what our boys so often shouted out to me as I passed them in the trenches and
back of the lines: 'Judge, when you get back home tell the folks not to forget the Salvation
Army. They're the real thing.'

 "And I know they are the real thing. I have shared with the boys the
doughnuts and chocolate and coffee that seemed to be so much better than
any other doughnuts or coffee or chocolate I have ever tasted before. And
when it seemed so wonderful to me after just a mild sort of experience
down a shell-swept road, through the damp and cold of a French winter day,
what must it be to those boys after trench raids or red-hot scraps down
rain-soaked trenches under the wet mists of No Man's Land?... Listen to
some of the stories the boys told me: 'You see, Judge, the good old
Salvation Army is the real thing. They don't put on no airs. There ain't
no flub-dub about them and you don't see their mugs in the fancy magazines
much. Why, you never would see one of them in Paris around the hotels.
You'd never know they existed, Judge, unless you came right up here to the
front lines as near as the Colonel will let you!'

"And one enthusiastic urchin said: 'Why, Judge, after the battle yesterday, we couldn't get
those women out of the village till they'd seen every fellow had at least a dozen fried cakes
and all the coffee or chocolate he could pile in. We just had to drag 'em out--for the boys
love 'em too much to lose 'em--we weren't going to take no chances--not much-- for our Salvation
ladies!'"

HARRY LAUDER'S ENDORSEMENT.

In speaking of the Salvation Army's work before the Rotary Club of San Francisco, Harry Lauder
said:

"There is no organization in Europe doing more for the troops than the Salvation Army, and
the devotion of its officers has caused the Salvation Army to be revered by the soldiers."

Mr. Otto Kahn, one of America's most prominent bankers, upon his return to this country after
a tour through the American lines in France, writes, among other things:

"I should particularly consider myself remiss if I did not refer with sincere admiration to
the devoted, sympathetic, and most efficient work of the Salvation Army, which, though limited
in its activities to a few sectors only, has won the warm and affectionate regard of those
of our troops with whom it has been in contact."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. David Lawrence, special Washington correspondent of the New York Evening Post and other
influential papers, in an article in which he comments on the work of all the relief agencies,
says of the Salvation Army in France:

"Curiously enough the Salvation Army is spoken of in all official reports as the organization
most popular with the troops. Its organization is the smallest of all four. Its service is
simple and unadorned. It specializes on doughnuts and pie, which it gives away free whenever
the ingredients of the manufacture of those articles are at hand.

"The policy of the organization is to place a worker and his wife, if possible, with a unit
of troops. The woman makes doughnuts and sews on buttons, while the man helps the soldiers
in any way he can.

"The success of the Salvation Army is attributed by commanding officers to the fact that the
workers know how to mix naturally. In other cases there had been sometimes an air of condescension
not unlike that of the professional settlement house worker."

       *       *       *       *       *

In a recent issue of the Saturday Evening Post, Mr. Irvin Cobb, who has just returned from
France, has this to say of the Salvation  Army:

"Right here seems a good-enough place for me to slip in a few words of approbation for the
work which another organization has accomplished in France since we put our men into the field.
Nobody asked me to speak in its favor because, so far as I can find out, it has no publicity
department. I am referring to the Salvation Army. May it live forever for the service which,
without price and without any boasting on the part of its personnel, it is rendering to our
boys in France!

"A good many of us who hadn't enough religion, and a good many more of us who, mayhap, had
too much religion, looked rather contemptuously upon the methods of the Salvationists. Some
have gone so far as to intimate that the Salvation Army was vulgar in its methods and lacking
in dignity and even in reverence. Some have intimated that converting a sinner to the tap of
a bass drum or the tinkle of a tambourine was an improper process altogether. Never again,
though, shall I hear the blare of the cornet as it cuts into the chorus of hallelujah whoops,
where a ring of blue- bonneted women and blue-capped men stand exhorting on a city street-corner
under the gaslights, without recalling what some of their enrolled brethren--and sisters--have
done, and are doing, in Europe!

"The American Salvation Army in France is small, but, believe me, it is powerfully busy! Its
war delegation came over without any fanfare of the trumpets of publicity. It has no paid press
agents here and no impressive headquarters. There are no well-known names, other than the names
of its executive heads, on its rosters or on its advisory boards. None of its members are housed
at an expensive hotel and none of them have handsome automobiles in which to travel about from
place to place. No campaigns to raise nation-wide millions of dollars for the cost of its ministrations
overseas were ever held at home. I imagine it is the pennies of the poor that mainly fill its
war chest. I imagine, too, that sometimes its finances are an uncertain quantity. Incidentally,
I am assured that not one of its male workers here is of draft age unless he holds exemption
papers to prove his physical unfitness for military service. The Salvationists are taking care
to purge themselves of any suspicion that potential slackers have joined their ranks in order
to avoid the possibility of having to perform duties in khaki.

"Among officers, as well as among enlisted men, one occasionally hears criticism--which may
or may not be based on a fair judgment--for certain branches of certain activities of certain
organizations. But I have yet to meet any soldier, whether a brigadier or a private, who, if
he spoke at all of the Salvation Army, did not speak in terms of fervent gratitude for the
aid that the Salvationists are rendering so unostentatiously and yet so very effectively. Let
a sizable body of troops move from one station to another, and hard on its heels there came
a squad of men and women of the Salvation Army. An army truck may bring them, or it may be
they have a battered jitney to move them and their scanty outfits. Usually they do not ask
for help from anyone in reaching their destinations. They find lodgment in a wrecked shell
of a house or in the corner of a barn. By main force and awkwardness they set up their equipment,
and very soon the word has spread among the troops that at such and such a place the Salvation
Army is serving free hot drinks and free doughnuts and free pies. It specializes in doughnuts--the
Salvation Army in the field does--the real old-fashioned home-made ones that taste of home
to a homesick soldier boy!

"I did not see this, but one of my associates did. He saw it last winter in a dismal place
on the Toul sector. A file of our troops were finishing a long hike through rain and snow over
roads knee-deep in half-thawed icy slush. Cold and wet and miserable they came tramping into
a cheerless, half-empty town within sound and range of the German guns. They found a reception
committee awaiting them there--in the person of two Salvation Army lassies and a Salvation
Army Captain. The women had a fire going in the dilapidated oven of a vanished villager's kitchen.
One of them was rolling out the batter on a plank, with an old wine-bottle for a rolling pin,
and using the top of a tin can to cut the dough into circular strips; the other woman was cooking
the doughnuts, and as fast as they were cooked the man served them out, spitting hot, to hungry,
wet boys clamoring about the door, and nobody was asked to pay a cent!

"At the risk of giving mortal affront to ultradoctrinal practitioners of applied theology,
I am firmly committed to the belief that by the grace and the grease of those doughnuts those
three humble benefactors that day strengthened their right to a place in the Heavenly Kingdom."

MY DEAR COLONEL JENKINS:

I take pleasure in sending you a copy of my report as Commissioner to France, in which I made
reference to the work of the Salvation Army with our American Expeditionary Forces.

I cannot recall ever hearing the slightest criticism of the work of the Salvation Army, but
I heard many words of enthusiastic appreciation on the part not only of the Generals and officers
but of the soldiers.

I saw many evidences showing that the unselfish, sometimes reckless, abandon of your workers
had a great effect upon our men.

I am sure that the Salvation Army also stands in high respect for its religious influence upon
the men.

It was pleasant still further to hear such words of appreciation as I did from General Duncan
regarding the work of Chaplain Allan, the divisional chaplain of General Duncan's unit. He
has evidently risen to his work in a splendid way. It is a pleasure to have this opportunity
of rendering this testimony to you.

Faithfully yours,

CHARLES S. MACFARLAND, General Secretary.

The New York Globe printed the following:

HUNS DON'T STOP SALVATION ARMY. MEETING HELD IN DEEP DUGOUT UNDER RUINED VILLAGE--MANDOLIN
SUPPLANTS THE ORGAN.

By Herbert Corey.

JUST BEHIND THE SOMME FRONT, May 3l.--Somewhere in the tangle of smashed walls there was a
steely jingle. At first the sound was hard to identify, so odd are acoustics in this which
was once a little town. There were stub ends of walls here and there--bare, raw snags of walls
sticking up--and now and then a rooftree tilted pathetically against a ruin, or a pile of dusty
masonry that had been a house. A little path ran through this tangle, and under an arched gateway
that by a miracle remained standing and down the steps of a dugout. The jingling sound became
recognizable. Some one was trying to play on a mandolin:

"Jesus, Lover of My Soul."

It was grotesque and laughable. The grand old hymn refused its cadences to this instrument
of a tune-loving bourgeoise. It seemed to stand aloof and unconquered. This is a hymn for the
swelling notes of an organ or for the great harmonies of a choir. It was not made to be debased
by association with this caterwauling wood and wire, this sounding board for barbershop chords,
this accomplice of sick lovers leaning on village fences. Then there came a voice:

"By gollies, brother, you're getting it! I actually believe you're getting it, brother. We'll
have a swell meeting to-night."

I went down the steps into the Salvation Army man's dugout. A large soldier, cigarette depending
from his lower lip, unshaven, tin hat tipped on the back of his head, was picking away at the
wires of the mandolin with fingers that seemed as thick and yellow as ears of corn. As I came
in he stated profanely, that these dam' things were not made to pick out condemn' hymn tunes
on. The Salvation Army man encouraged him:

"You keep on, brother," said he, "and we'll have a fine meeting for the Brigadier when he comes
in to-night."

TAKING HIS CHANCES.

Another boy was sitting there, his head rather low. The mandolin player indicated him with
a jerk. "He got all roughed up last night," said he. "We found a bottle of some sweet stuff
these Frogs left in the house where we're billeted. Tasted a good deal like syrup. But it sure
put Bull out."

Bull turned a pair of inflamed eyes on the musician.

"You keep on a-talkin', and I'll hang somep'n on your eye," said Bull, hoarsely.

Then he replaced his head in his hands. The Salvation Army man laughed at the interlude and
then returned to the player.

"See," said he, "it goes like this----" He hummed the wonderful old hymn.

The floor of the dugout was covered with straw. The stairs which led to it were wide, so that
at certain hours the sun shone in and dried out the walls. There were few slugs crawling slimily
on the walls of the Salvation Army's place. Rats were there, of course, and bugs of sorts,
but few slugs. On the whole it was considered a good dugout, because of these things. The roof
was not a strong one, it seemed to me. A 77-shell would go through it like a knife through
cheese. I said so to the Salvation Army man.

"Aw, brother," said he. "We've got to take our chances along with the rest."

At the foot of the stairs was a table on which were the few things the Salvation Army man had
to sell, up here under the guns. There were some figs and a handful of black licorice drops
and a few nuts. Boys kept coming in and demanding cookies. Cookies there were none, but there
was hope ahead. If the Brigadier managed to get in to-night with the fliv, there might be cookies.

NO MONEY, BUT GOOD CHEER.

"Just our luck," said some morose doughboy, "if a shell hit the fliv. It's a hell of a road----"

"No shell has hit it yet, brother," said the Salvation Army man, cheerily.

Fifteen dollars would have bought everything he had in stock. One could have carried away the
whole stock in the pockets of an army overcoat. The Salvation Army has no money, you know.
It is hard to buy supplies for canteens over here, unless a pocket filled with money is doing
the buying. The Salvation Army must pick up its stuff where it can get it. Yesterday there
had been sardines and shaving soap and tin watches. To-day there were only figs and licorice
drops and nuts.

"But if the Brigadier gets in," said the Salvation Army man, "there will be something sweet
to eat. And we'll have a little meeting of song and praise, brother--just to thank God for
the chance he has given us to help."

Here there is no one else to serve the boys. Other organizations have more money and more men,
but for some reason they have not seen fit to come to this which was once a town. Shells fall
into it from six directions all day and all night long. Now and then it is gassed. A few kilometres
away is the German line. One reaches town over a road which is nightly torn to pieces by high
explosives. No one comes here voluntarily, and no one stays willingly--except the Salvation
Army man. He's here for keeps.

Men come down into his little dugout to play checkers and dominoes and buy sweet things to
eat. He is here to help them spiritually as well as physically and they know it, and yet they
do not hear him. He talks to them just as they talk to each other, except that he does not
swear and he does not tell stories that have too much of a tang. He never obtrudes his religion
on them. Just once in a while--on the nights the Brigadier gets in--there is a little song
and praise meeting. They thank God for the chance they have to help.

That night the Brigadier got in with his cookies and chocolates and his message that salvation
is free. Perhaps a dozen men sat around uncomfortably in the little dugout and listened to
him. The man of the mandolin had refused at the last moment. He said he would be dam' if he
could play a hymn tune on that thing. But the old hymn quavered cheerily out of the little
dugout into the shell-torn night. The husky voices of the Brigadier and the Ensign and Holy
Joe carried it on, while the little audience sat mute.

  While the nearer waters roll,
  While the tempest still is high.

Then there was a little prayer and a few straight, cordial words from the Brigadier and then,
somewhere in that perilous night outside, "taps" sounded and the men were off to bed. They
had no word of thanks as they shook hands on parting. They did not speak to each other as they
picked their way along the path through the ruins. But when they reached the street some one
said very profanely and very earnestly:

"I can lick any man's son who says THEY ain't all right."

"I have just received your letter of the 30th of July, and it has cheered my heart to know
you take an interest in a poor Belgian prisoner of war.

"Since I wrote to you last we have been changed to another camp; the one we are now in is quite
a nice camp, with lots of flowers, and we are allowed more freedom, but it is very bad regarding
food. We have so very little to eat, it is a pity we can't eat flowers! We rise up hungry and
go to bed hungry, and all day long we are trying to still the craving for food. So you will
understand the longing there is in our hearts to once again be free--to be able to go to work
and earn our daily bread! But the one great comfort that I find is since I learned to know
Jesus as my Saviour and Friend I can better endure the trials and even rejoice that I am called
to suffer for His sake, and while around me I see many who are in despair--some even cursing
God for all the misery in which we are surrounded, some trying to be brave, some giving up
altogether--yet to a number of us has come the Gospel message, brought by the Salvation Army,
and I am so glad that I, for one, listened and surrendered my life to this Jesus! Now I have
real peace, and He walks with me and gives me grace to conquer the evil.

"When I lived in Belgium I was very worldly and sinful--I lived for pleasure and drink and
sin. I did not then know of One who said, 'Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy-laden,
and I will give you rest.' I did not know anything about living a Christian life, but now it
is all changed and I am so thankful! Salvation Army officers visit us and bring words of cheer
and blessing and comfort. You will be glad to know that I have applied to our Commissioner
to become a Salvation Army officer when the war is over. I want to go to my poor little stricken
country and tell my people of this wonderful Saviour that can save from all sin!

"On behalf of my comrades and myself, I want to thank the American nation for all they have
done, and are still doing, for my people. May God bless you all for it, and may He grant that
before long there will be peace on earth!

"I remain, faithfully yours,

"REMY MEERSMAN."

THE "STARS AND STRIPES" SPEAKS FROM FRANCE FOR THE SALVATION ARMY.

A copy of the "Stars and Stripes," the official publication of the American Expeditionary Forces
published in Prance by the American soldiers themselves, just received in Chicago, contains
the following:

"Perhaps in the old days when war and your home town seemed as far apart as Paris, France,
and Paris, Ill., you were a superior person who used to snicker when you passed a street corner
where a small Salvation Army band was holding forth. Perhaps--Heaven forgive you--you even
sneered a little when you heard the bespectacled sister in the poke-bonnet bang her tambourine
and raise a shrill voice to the strains of 'Oh death, where is thy sting-a-ling.' Probably--unless
you yourself had known the bitterness of one who finds himself alone, hungry and homeless in
a big city--you did not know much about the Salvation Army.

Well, we are all homeless over here and every American soldier will take back with him a new
affection and a new respect for the Salvation Army. Many will carry with them the memories
of a cheering word and a friendly cruller received in one of the huts nearest of all to the
trenches. There the old slogan of 'Soup and Salvation' has given way to 'Pies and Piety.' It
might be 'Doughnuts and Doughboys.' These huts pitched within the shock of the German guns,
are ramshackle and bare and few, for no organization can grow rich on the pennies and nickels
that are tossed into the tambourines at the street-corners of the world. But they are doing
a work that the soldiers themselves will never forget, and it is an especial pleasure to say
so here, because the Salvation Army, being much too simple and old-fashioned to know the uses
of advertisement, have never asked us to. You, however, can testify for them. Perhaps you do
in your letters home. And surely when you are back there and you pass once more a 'meeting'
at the curb, you will not snicker. You will tarry awhile--and take off your hat."

We have received a letter from Mr. Lewis Strauss, Secretary to Mr. Herbert Hoover, who has
just returned from France, and he says that Mr. Hoover's time while in Europe was spent almost
wholly in London and Paris, and that he had no opportunity for observing our War Relief Work
at the front. The concluding paragraph of the letter, however, is as follows:

"Mr. Hoover has frequently heard the most complimentary reports of the invaluable work which
your organization is performing in invariably the most perilous localities, and he is filled
with admiration for those who are conducting it at the front."

THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE (MAY 17, 1918), QUOTING FROM THE ABOVE, ALSO SPEAKS EDITORIALLY.

The acid test of any service done for our soldiers in France is the value the men themselves
place upon it. No matter how excellent our intentions, we cannot be satisfied with the result
if the soldiers are not satisfied. Without suggesting any invidious distinctions among organizations
that are working at the front, it is nevertheless a pleasure to record that the Salvation Army
stands very high in the regard of American soldiers.

The evidence of the Salvation Army's excellent work comes from many sources.

APPENDIX.

A Few Facts about the Salvation Army

It has been truly said that within four days after the German Army entered Belgium, another
Army entered also--the Salvation Army! One came to destroy, the other to relieve distress and
minister to the wounded and dying.

The British Salvation Army furnished a number of Red Cross Ambulances, manned by Salvationists
when the Red Cross was in great need of such. When these arrived in France and people first
saw the big cars with the "Salvation Army" label it attracted a good deal of attention. The
drivers wore the Red Cross uniform, and were under its military rules, but wore on their caps
the red band with the words, "Salvation Army."

There is a story of a young officer in sportive mood who left a group of his companions and
stepped out into the street to stop one of these ambulances:

"Hello! Salvation Army!" he cried. "Are you taking those men to heaven?"

Amid the derisive laughter of the officers on the sidewalk the Salvationist replied pleasantly:

"I cannot say I am taking them to heaven, but I certainly am taking them away from the other
place."

One of the good British Salvationists wrote of meeting our American boys in England. He said:

"Oh, these American soldiers! One meets them in twos and threes, all over the city, everlastingly
asking questions, by word of mouth and by wide- open trustful eyes, and they make a bee-line
for the Salvation Army uniform on sight. I passed a company of them on the march across London,
from one railroad station to another, the other, day. They were obviously interested in the
sights of the city streets as they passed through at noon, but as they drew nearer one of the
boys caught sight of the red band around my cap among the hate crowning the sidewalk crowd.
My! but that one man's interest swept over the hundred odd men! Like the flame of a prairie
fire, it went with a zip! They all knew at once! They had no eyes for the crowd any more; they
did not stare at the facade of the railway terminus which they were passing; they saw nothing
of the famous 'London Stone' set in the wall behind its grid on their right hand. What they
saw was a Salvation Army man in all his familiar war-paint, and it was a sight for sore eyes!
Here was something they could understand! This was an American institution, a tried, proved
and necessary part of the life of any community. All this and much more those wide-open eyes
told me. It was as good to them as if I was stuck all over with stars and stripes. I belonged--that's
it--belonged to them, and so they took off the veil and showed their hearts and smiled their
good glad greeting.

"So I smiled and that first file of four beamed seraphic. Two at least were of Scandinavian
stock, but how should that make any difference? Again and again I noticed their counterpart
in the column which followed.... It was all the same; file upon file those faces spread out
in eager particular greeting; those eyes, one and all, sought mine expecting the smile I so
gladly gave. And then when the last was past and I gazed upon their swaying forms from the
rear I wondered why my eyes were moist and something had gone wrong with my swallowing apparatus.
Great boys! Bonny boys!"

The Salvation Army was founded July 5, 1865, as a Christian Mission in East London by the Reverend
William Booth, and its first Headquarters opened in Whitechapel Road, London. Three years later
work was begun in Scotland.

In 1877 the name of the Christian Mission was altered to the Salvation Army, and the Reverend
William Booth assumed the title of General.

December 29, 1879, the first number of the official organ, "The War Cry," was issued and the
first brass band formed at Consett.

In 1880 the first Training School was opened at Hackney, London, and the first contingent of
the Salvation Army officers landed in the United States. The next year the Salvation Army entered
Australia, and was extended to France. 1882 saw Switzerland, Sweden, India and Canada receiving
their first contingent of Salvation Army officers. A London Orphan Asylum was acquired and
converted into Congress Hall, which, with its large Auditorium, with a seating capacity of
five thousand, still remains the Mammoth International Training School for Salvation Army officers,
for missionary and home fields all over the world. The first Prison-Gate Home was opened in
London in this same year.

The Army commenced in South Africa, New Zealand and Iceland in 1883.

The British Slum work was inaugurated in 1887, and Officers sent to Italy, Holland, Denmark,
Zululand, and among the Kaffirs and Hottentots. The next year the Army extended to Norway,
Argentine Kepublic, Finland and Belgium, and the next ten years saw work extended in succession
to Uruguay, West Indies, Java, Japan, British Guiana, Panama and Korea, and work commenced
among the Lepers.

The growing confidence of the great of the earth was manifested by the honors that were conferred
upon General Booth from time to time. In 1898 he opened the American Senate with prayer. In
1904 King Edward received him at Buckingham Palace, the freedom of the City of London and the
City of Kirkcaldy were conferred upon him, as well as the degree of D. C. L. by Oxford, during
1905. The Kings of Denmark, Norway, the Queen of Sweden, and the Emperor of Japan were among
those who received him in private audience.

On August 20, 1912, General William Booth laid down his sword.

He lay in state in Congress Hall, London, where the number of visitors who looked upon his
remains ran into the hundreds of thousands.

His son, William Bramwell Booth, the Chief of the Staff, by the appointment of the late General,
succeeded to the office and came to the position with a wealth of affection and confidence
on the part of the people of the nations such as few men know.

SALVATION ARMY WAR ACTIVITIES.

77 Motor ambulances manned by Salvationists.

87 Hotels for use of Soldiers and Sailors.

107 Buildings in United States placed at disposal of Government for war relief purposes.

199 Huts at Soldiers' Camps used for religious and social gatherings and for dispensing comfort
to Soldiers and Sailors.

300 Rest-rooms equipped with papers, magazines, books, etc., in charge of Salvation Army Officers.

1507 Salvation Army officers devote their entire time to religious and social work among Soldiers
and Sailors.

15,000 Beds in hotels close to railway stations and landing points at seaport cities for protection
of Soldiers and Sailors going to and from the Front.

80,000 Salvation Army officers fighting with Allied Armies.

100,000 Parcels of food and clothing distributed among Soldiers and Sailors.

100,000 Wounded Soldiers taken from battlefields in Salvation Army ambulances.

300,000 Soldiers and Sailors daily attend Salvation Army buildings.

$2,000,000 Already spent in war activities.

45 Chaplains serving under Government appointment.

40 Camps, Forts and Navy Yards at which Salvation Army services are conducted or which are
visited by Salvation Army officers.

2184 War Widows assisted (legal and other aid, and visited).

2404 Soldiers' wives cared for (including medical help).

442 War children under our care.

3378 Soldiers' remittances forwarded (without charge).

$196,081.05 Amount remitted.

600 Parcels supplied Prisoners of War.

1300 Cables sent for Soldiers.

275 Officers detailed to assist Soldiers' wives and relatives; number assisted, 275.

40 Military hospitals visited.

360 Persons visiting hospitals.

147 Boats met.

324,052 Men on board,

35,845 Telegrams sent.

24 Salvationists detailed for this work.

20 Salvationists detailed for this work outside of New York City.

SALVATION ARMY WORK IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

1218 Buildings in use at present.

2953 Missing friends found.

6125 Tons of ice distributed.

12,000 Officers and non-commissioned officers actively employed.

11,650 Accommodations in institutions.

68,000 Children cared for in Rescue Homes and Slum Settlements.

22,161 Women and girls cared for in Rescue Homes.

30,401 Tons of coal distributed.

175,764 Men cared for in Industrial Homes.

