PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

April 11, 1891.

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. XVI.--GERMFOOD.

(BY MARY MORALLY, AUTHOR OF "GINBITTERS!" "ARDART," &C., &C.)

    [The MS. of this remarkable novel was tied round with scarlet
    ribbons, and arrived in a case which had been once used for
    the packing of bottles of rum, or some other potent spirit.
    It is dedicated in highly uncomplimentary terms to "Messieurs
    les Marronneurs glacés de Paris." With it came a most
    extraordinary letter, from which we make, without permission,
    the following startling extracts. "Ha! Ha! likewise Fe Fo
    Fum. I smell blood, galloping, panting, whirling, hurling,
    throbbing, maddened blood. My brain is on fire, my pen is a
    flash of lightning. I see stars, three stars, that is to say,
    one of the best brands plucked from the burning. I'm going
    to make your flesh creep. I'll give you fits, paralytic fits,
    epileptic fits, and fits of hysteria, all at the same time.
    Have I ever been in Paris? Never. Do I know the taste of
    absinthe? How dare you ask me such a question? Am I a woman?
    Ask me another. Ugh! it's coming, the demon is upon me. I must
    write three murderous volumes. I must, I must! What was that
    shriek? and that? and that? Unhand me, snakes! Oh!!!!--M.M."]

CHAPTER I.

I was asleep and dreaming--dreaming dreadful, horrible, soul-shattering dreams--dreams that
flung me head-first out of bed, and then flung me back into bed off the uncarpeted floor of
my chamber. But I did not wake--why should I?--it was unnecessary--I wanted to dream--I had
to dream and therefore I dreamt. I was walking home from a cheap restaurant in one of the poorer
quarters of Paris. "Poorer quarters" is a nice vague term. There are many poorer quarters in
a large city. This was one of them. Let that suffice to the critical pedants who clamour for
accuracy and local colour. Accuracy! pah! Shall the soaring soul of a three-volumer be restrained
by the debasing fetters of a grovelling exactitude? Never! I will tell you what. If I choose,
I who speak to you, moi qui vous parle, the Seine shall run red with the blood of murdered
priests, and there shall be a tide in it where no tide ever was before, close to Paris itself,
the home of the Marrons Glacés, and into the river I shall plunge a corpse with upturned face
and glassy, staring, haunting, dreadful eyes, and the tide shall turn, the tide that never
was on earth, or sky, or sea, it shall turn in my second volume for one night only, and carry
the corpse of my victim back, back, back under bridges innumerable, back into the heart of
Paris. Dreadful, isn't it? Allons, mon ami. Qu'est-ce-qu'il-y-a. Je ne sais quoi. Mon Dieu!
There's idiomatic French for you, all sprinkled out of a cayenne pepper-pot to make the local
colour hot and strong. Bah! let us return to our muttons!

CHAPTER II.

What was that? Something yellow, and spotted--something sinuous and lithe, with crawling, catlike
motion. No, no! Yes, yes!! A leopard of the forest had issued from a side-street, a cul de
sac, as the frivolous sons of Paris, the Queen of Vice, call it. It was moving with me, stopping
when I stopped, galloping when I galloped, turning somersaults when I turned them. And then
it spoke to me--spoke, yes, spoke, this thing of the desert--this wild phantasm of a brain
distraught by over-indulgence in marrons glacés, the curse of ma patrie, and its speech was
as the scent of scarlet poppies, plucked from the grave of a discarded mistress.

"Thou shalt write," it said, "for it is thine to reform the world." I shuddered. The conversational
"thou" is fearful at all times; but, ah, how true to nature, even the nature of a leopard of
the forest. The beast continued--"But thou shalt write in English."

"Spare me!" I ventured to interpose.

"In English," it went on, inexorably--"in hysterical, sad, mad, bad English. And the tale shall
be of France--France, where the ladies always leave the dinner-table before the men. Note this,
and use it at page ninety of thy first volume. And thy French shall be worse than thy English,
for thou shalt speak of a frissonement, and thy friends shall say, "Nous blaguons le chose."

"Stop!" I cried, in despair, "stop, fiend!--this is too much!" I sprang at the monster, and
seized it by the throat. Our eyes, peering into each other's, seemed to ravage out, as by fire,
the secrets hidden in our hearts. My blood hurled itself through my veins. There was something
clamorous and wild in it. Then I fell prone on the ground, and remembered that I had eaten
one marron for dinner. This explained everything, and I remembered no more till I came to myself,
and found the divisional surgeon busily engaged upon me with a pompe d'estomac.

CHAPTER III.

My father, M. le Duc DI SPEPSION, belonged to one of the oldest French families. He had many
old French customs, amongst others that of brushing his bearded lips against my cheek. He was
a stern man, with a severe habit of addressing me as "Mon fils." Generally he disapproved of
my proceedings, which was, perhaps, not unnatural, taking all the circumstances of the case
into consideration. Why have I mentioned him? I know not, save that even now, degraded as I
am, memories of better things sometimes steal over me like the solemn sound of church-bells
pealing in a cathedral belfry. But I have done with home, with father, with patriotism, with
claret, with walnuts, and with all simple pleasures. Ça va sans dire. They talk to me of Good,
and Nature. The words are meaningless to me. Are there realities behind these words--realities
that can touch the heart of a confirmed marroneur? Cold and pitiless, Nature sits aloft like
a mathematician, with his balance regulating the storm-pulses of this troubled world. Bah!
I fling myself in her teeth. I brazen it out. She quails. For, since the accursed food passed
my lips, the strength of a million demons is in me. I am pitiless. I laugh to think of the
fool I once was in the days when I fed myself on Baba au Rhum, and other innocent dishes. Now
I have knowledge. I am my own good. I glance haughtily into--[Ten rhapsodical pages omitted.--ED.
Punch.] But there came into my life a false priest, who was like the ghost of a fair lost god--and
because he was a fair lost, the cabmen loved him not--and he had to die, and lie in the Morgue--the
Morgue where murdered men and women love to dwell--and thus he should discover the Eternal Secret!

CHAPTER IV.

Again--again--again! The moon rose, shimmering like a Marron Glacé over Paris. Oh! Paris, beauteous
city of the lost. Surely in Babylon or in Nineveh, where SEMIRAMIS of old queened it over men,
never was such madness--madness did I say? Why? What did I mean? Tush! the struggle is over,
and I am calm again, though my blood still hums tumultuously. The world is very evil. My father
died choked by a marron. I, too, am dead--I who have written this rubbish--I am dead, and sometimes,
as I walk, my loved one glides before me in aërial phantom shape, as on page 4, Vol. II. But
I am dead--dead and buried--and over my grave an avenue of gigantic chestnuts reminds the passer-by
of my fate: and on my tombstone it is written, "Here lies one who danced a cancan and ate marrons
glacés all day. Be warned!" THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUITE EXCEPTIONAL THEATRICAL NEWS.--Next Thursday at the Vaudeville, the Press and the usual
Free-Admissionaries will be let in for Money.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE KICKS THAN HALFPENCE.

    "The root of Volunteer inefficiency is to be ascribed to the
    Volunteer officer. The men are such as their officers make
    them ... The force is 1,100 officers short of its proper
    complement."--Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE KICKS THAN HALFPENCE.

VOLUNTEER OFFICER, LOQUITUR.--

  Yes, take back the sword! Though the Times may expostulate,
    Tired am I wholly of worry and snubs.
  You'll find, my fine friend, what your folly has cost you, late,
    Henceforth for me the calm comfort of Clubs!
  To lounge on a cushion and hear the balls rattle
    'Midst smoke-fumes, and sips on the field of green cloth,
  Is better than leading slow troops to sham battle,
    In stupid conditions that rouse a man's wrath.

  Commissions, they say, go a-begging. Precisely!
    Incapables take them, but capables shy.
  For twenty-one years you have harried us nicely.
    And now, like the rest, we're on Strike, Sir. And why?
  The game, you old fossil, is not worth the candle,
    Your kicks for my halfpence? The bargain's too bad!
  If you want bogus leaders sham soldiers to handle,
    You'll now have to take duffers, deadheads, and cads!

  The Times wisely says you should make it attractive,
    This Volunteer business. But that's not your game.
  You're actively snubby, or coldly inactive:
    We pay, and you pooh-pooh! 'Tis always the same.
  We do not mind giving our time and our money,
    Or facing March blasts, or the floods of July;
  But till nettles bear grapes, Sir, or wasps yield us honey,
    You won't get snubbed men to pay up and look spry.

  The "multiplication of camps and manoeuvres"?
    All right! Let us learn in a soldierlike school;
  But what is the good of your Bisleys and Dovers.
    If the whole game resolves into playing the fool?
  To play that game longer and pay for it too, Sir,
    Won't suit me at all. I'm disgusted and bored.
  Your kicks for my halfpence? No, no, it won't do, Sir!
    And therefore, old Tapenoddle--take back the sword!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

[CONTINUED.]

March 11.--I shall have to be pretty careful in my speech to the Council. Must butter up Billsbury
like fun. How would this do? "I am young, Gentlemen, but I should have studied the political
history of my country to little purpose if I did not know that, up to the time of the last
election, the vote of Billsbury was always cast on the side of enlightenment, and Constitutional
progress. The rash and foolish experiments of those who sought to impair the glorious fabric
of our laws and our Constitution found no favour in Billsbury. It was not your fault, I know,
that this state of things has not been maintained, and that Billsbury is now groaning under
the heavy burden of a distasteful representation. Far be it from me to say one word personally
against the present Member for Billsbury. This is a political fight, and it is because his
political opinions are mistaken that you have decided to attack him"--&c., &c., &c. Must throw
in something about Conservatives being the true friends of working-men. CHUBSON is not an Eight
Hours' man, so I can go a long way. What shall I say next? Church and State, of course, Ireland
pacified and contented, glorious financial successes of present Government, steady removal
of all legitimate grievances, and triumphs of our diplomacy in all parts of the world. Shall
have to say a good word for Liberal-Unionists. TOLLAND says there are about thirty of them,
all very touchy. Must try to work in the story of the boy and the plum-cake. It made them scream
at the Primrose League meeting at Crowdale.

By the way, Uncle HENRY said, "What about the Bar?" I told him I meant to keep on working at
it--which won't be difficult if I don't get more work. I got just two Statements of Claim,
and a Motion before a Judge in Chambers, all last year, the third year after my call. Sleepy.
To bed.

March 12, "George Hotel," Billsbury.--Left London by 2.15 to-day, and got to Billsbury at 5.30.
TOLLAND met me at the station with half a dozen other "leaders of the Party." One was Colonel
CHORKLE, a Volunteer Colonel; another was Alderman MOFFATT, a Scotchman with a very broad dialect.
Then there was JERRAM, the Editor of the Billsbury Standard, "the organ of the Party in Billsbury,"
so TOLLAND said, and a couple of others. I was introduced to them all, and forgot which was
which immediately afterwards, which was most embarrassing, as I had to address them all as
"you," a want of distinction which I am afraid they felt. Tipped two porters, who carried my
bag and rug, a shilling each. They looked knowing, but old TOLLAND had hinted that the other
side had got a character for meanness of which we could take a perfectly proper advantage without
in any way infringing the Corrupt Practices Act. Must look up that Act. It may be a help. From
the station we went straight to the "George." There I was introduced to half a dozen more leaders
of the Party. Can't remember one of them except BLISSOP, the Secretary of the Association,
a chap about my own age, who told me his brother remembered me at Oxford. There was a fellow
of that name, I think, who came up in my year, a scrubby-faced reading man. We made hay in
his room after a Torpid "rag," which he didn't like. Hope it isn't the same. I said I remembered
him well. Dined with TOLLAND; nobody but leaders of the Party present, all as serious as judges,
and full of importance. CHORKLE, who drops his "h's" frightfully, asked me "'ow long it would
be afore a General Election," and seemed rather surprised when I said I had no information
on the matter.

The meeting of the Council came off in the large hall of the Billsbury Beaconsfield Club. TOLLAND
was in the chair, and made a long speech in introducing me. I didn't take in a word of it,
as I was repeating my peroration to myself all the time. My speech went off pretty well, except
that I got mixed up in the middle, and forgot that blessed story. However, when I got into
the buttering part, it took them by storm. I warmed old GLADSTONE up to-rights, and asked them
to contrast the state of England now with what it was when he was in power. "Hyperion to a
Satyr," I said. Colonel CHORKLE, in proposing afterwards that I was a fit and proper person
to represent Billsbury, said, "Mr. PATTLE's able and convincing speech proves 'im not only
a master of English, but a consummate orator, able to wield the harmoury" (why he put the "h"
there I don't know) "of wit and sarcasm like a master. I'm not given to boasting," he continued.
"I never indulge in badinage" (query, braggadocio?); "but, with such a Candidate, we must win."
JERRAM seconded the resolution, which was carried nem. con. Must get local newspapers, to show
to mother. She'll like that. Shall go back to London to-morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FORTNIGHTLY" V. SO-CALLED "NINETEENTH CENTURY."--Change of Author's name. Mr. FREDERIC HARRISON
to be known in future as "FREDERIC HARRASIN' KNOWLES."

The Room, with the cheap Art-furniture as before--except that the candles on the Christmas-tree
have guttered down and appear to have been lately blown out. The cotton-wool frogs and the
chenille monkeys are disarranged, and there are walking things on the sofa. NORA alone.

Nora (putting on a cloak and taking it off again). Bother KROGSTAD! There, I won't think of
him. I'll only think of the costume ball at Consul STENBORG's, over-head, to-night, where I
am to dance the Tarantella all alone, dressed as a Capri fisher-girl. It struck TORVALD that,
as I am a matron with three children, my performance might amuse the Consul's guests, and,
at the same time, increase his connection at the Bank. TORVALD is so practical. (To Mrs. LINDEN,
who comes in with a large cardboard box.) Ah, CHRISTINA, so you have brought in my old costume?
Would you mind, as my husband's new Cashier, just doing up the trimming for me?

Mrs. L. Not at all--is it not part of my regular duties? (Sewing.) Don't you think, NORA, that
you see a little too much of Dr. RANK?

Nora. Oh, I couldn't see too much of Dr. RANK! He is so amusing--always talking about his complaints,
and heredity, and all sorts of indescribably funny things. Go away now, dear; I hear TORVALD.
[Mrs. LINDEN goes. Enter TORVALD from the Manager's room. NORA runs trippingly to him.

Nora (coaxing). Oh, TORVALD, if only you won't dismiss KROGSTAD, you can't think how your little
lark would jump about and twitter!

Helmer. The inducement would be stronger but for the fact that, as it is, the little lark is
generally engaged in that particular occupation. And I really must get rid of KROGSTAD. If
I didn't, people would say I was under the thumb of my little squirrel here, and then KROGSTAD
and I knew each other in early youth; and when two people knew each other in early youth--(a
short pause)--h'm! Besides, he will address me as, "I say, TORVALD"--which causes me most painful
emotion! He is tactless, dishonest, familiar, and morally ruined--altogether not at all the
kind of person to be a Cashier in a Bank like mine.

Nora. But he writes in scurrilous papers,--he is on the staff of the Norwegian Punch. If you
dismiss him, he may write nasty things about you, as wicked people did about poor dear Papa!

Helmer. Your poor dear Papa was not impeccable--far from it. I am--which makes all the difference.
I have here a letter giving KROGSTAD the sack. One of the conveniences of living close to the
Bank is, that I can use the housemaids as Bank-messengers. (Goes to door and calls.) ELLEN!
(Enter parlourmaid.) Take that letter--there is no answer. (ELLEN takes it and goes.) That's
settled--so now, NORA; as I am going to my private room, it will be a capital opportunity for
you to practise the tambourine--thump away, little lark, the doors are double! [Nods to her
and goes in, shutting door.

Nora (stroking her face). How am I to get out of this mess! (A ring at the Visitors' bell.)
Dr. RANK's ring! He shall help me out of it! (Dr. RANK appears in doorway, hanging up his great-coat.)
Dear Dr. RANK, how are you? [Takes both his hands.

Rank (sitting down near the stove). I am a miserable, hypochondriacal wretch--that's what I
am. And why am I doomed to be dismal? Why? Because my father died of a fit of the blues! Is
that fair--I put it to you?

Nora. Do try to be funnier than that! See, I will show you the flesh-coloured silk tights that
I am to wear to-night--it will cheer you up. But you must only look at the feet--well, you
may look at the rest if you're good. Aren't they lovely? Will they fit me, do you think?

Rank (gloomily). A poor fellow with both feet in the grave is not the best authority on the
fit of silk stockings. I shall be food for worms before long--I know I shall!

Nora. You mustn't really be so frivolous! Take that! (She hits him lightly on the ear with
the stockings; then hums a little.) I want you to do me a great service, Dr. RANK. (Rolling
up stockings,) I always liked you. I love TORVALD most, of course--but, somehow, I'd rather
spend my time with you--you are so amusing!

Rank. If I am, can't you guess why? (A short silence.) Because I love you! You can't pretend
you didn't know it!

Nora. Perhaps not--but it was really too clumsy of you to mention it just as I was about to
ask a favour of you! It was in the worst taste! (With dignity.) You must not imagine because
I joke with you about silk stockings, and tell you things I never tell TORVALD, that I am therefore
without the most delicate and scrupulous self-respect! I am really quite a good little doll,
Dr. RANK, and now--(sits in rocking-chair and smiles)--now I shan't ask you what I was going
to! [ELLEN comes in with a card.

Nora (terrified). Oh, my goodness! [Puts it in her pocket.

Dr. Rank. Excuse my easy Norwegian pleasantry--but--h'm--anything disagreeable up?

Nora (to herself). KROGSTAD's card! I must tell another whopper! (To RANK.) No. nothing, only--only
my new costume. I want to try it on here. I always do try on my dresses in the drawing-room--it's
cosier, you know. So go into TORVALD and amuse him till I'm ready. [RANK goes into HELMER's
room, and NORA bolts the door upon him, as KROGSTAD enters from hall in a fur cap.

Krogs. Well, I've got the sack, and so I came to see how you are getting on. I mayn't be a
nice man, but--(with feeling)--I have a heart! And, as I don't intend to give up the forged
I.O.U. unless I'm taken back, I was afraid you might be contemplating suicide, or something
of that kind; and so I called to tell you that, if I were you, I wouldn't. Bad thing for the
complexion, suicide, and silly, too, because it wouldn't mend matters in the least. (Kindly.)
You must not take this affair too seriously. Mrs. HELMER. Get your husband to settle it amicably
by taking me back as Cashier; then I shall soon get the whip-hand of him, and we shall all
be as pleasant and comfortable as possible together!

Nora. Not even that prospect can tempt me! Besides, TORVALD wouldn't have you back at any price
now!

Krogs. All right, then. I have here a letter, telling your husband all. I will take the liberty
of dropping it in the letter-box at your hall-door as I go out. I'll wish you good evening!
[He goes out; presently the dull sound of a thick letter dropping into a wire box is heard.

Nora (softly, and hoarsely). He's done it! How am I to prevent TORVALD from seeing it?

Helmer (inside the door, rattling). Hasn't my lark changed its dress yet? (NORA unbolts door.)
What--so you are not in fancy costume, after all? (Enters with RANK.) Are there any letters
for me in the box there?

Nora (voicelessly). None--not even a postcard! Oh, TORVALD, don't, please, go and look--promise
me you won't! I do assure you there isn't a letter! And I've forgotten the Tarantella you taught
me--do let's run over it. I'm so afraid of breaking down--promise me not to look at the letter-box.
I can't dance unless you do.

Helmer (standing still, on his way to the letter-box). I am a man of strict business habits,
and some powers of observation; my little squirrel's assurances that there is nothing in the
box, combined with her obvious anxiety that I should not go and see for myself, satisfy me
that it is indeed empty, in spite of the fact that I have not invariably found her a strictly
truthful little dicky-bird. There--there. (Sits down to piano.) Bang away on your tambourine,
little squirrel--dance away, my own lark!

Nora (dancing, with a long gay shawl). Just won't the little squirrel! Faster--faster! Oh,
I do feel so gay! We will have some champagne for dinner, won't we, TORVALD? [Dances with more
and more abandonment.

Helmer (after addressing frequent remarks in correction). Come, come--not this awful wildness!
I don't like to see quite such a larky little lark as this ... Really it is time you stopped!

Nora (her hair coming down as she dances more wildly still, and swings the tambourine). I can't
... I can't! (To herself, as she dances.) I've only thirty-one hours left to be a bird in;
and after that--(shuddering)--after that, KROGSTAD will let the cat out of the bag! [Curtain.

N.B.--The final Act,--containing scenes of thrilling and realistic intensity, worked out with
a masterly insight and command of psychology, the whole to conclude with a new and original
dénoûment--unavoidably postponed to a future number. No money returned.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAKING THE CENSUS.

(A STORY OF THE 6TH OF APRIL, 1891.)

As I have but a limited holding in the Temple, and, moreover, slept on the evening of the 5th
of April at Burmah Gardens, I considered it right and proper to fill in the paper left me by
the "Appointed Enumerator" at the latter address. And here I may say that the title of the
subordinate officer intrusted with the addition of my household to the compilation of the Census
pleased me greatly--"Appointed Enumerator" was distinctly good. I should have been willing
(of course for an appropriate honorarium) to have accepted so well-sounding an appointment
myself. To continue, the general tone of the instructions "to the Occupier" was excellent.
Such words as "erroneous," "specification," and the like, appeared frequently, and must have
been pleasant strangers to the householder who was authorised to employ some person other than
himself to write, "if unable to do so himself." To be captious, I might have been better pleased
had the housemaid who handed me the schedule been spared the smile provoked by finding me addressed
by the "Appointed Enumerator" as "Mr. BEEFLESS," instead of "Mr. BRIEFLESS." But this was a
small matter.

I need scarcely say that I took infinite pains to fill in my paper accurately. I have great
sympathy with the "Census (England and Wales) Act, 1890," and wished, so far as I was personally
concerned, to carry out its object to the fullest extent attainable. I had no difficulty about
inserting my own "name and surname," and "profession or occupation." I rather hesitated, however,
to describe myself as an "employer," because the "examples of the mode of filling-up" rather
suggested that domestic servants were not to count, and for the rest my share in the time of
PORTINGTON, to say the least, is rather shadowy. For instance, I could hardly fairly suggest
that in regard to the services of my excellent and admirable clerk, I am as great an employer
of labour as, say, the head of a firm of railway contractors, or the managing director of a
cosmopolitan hotel company. Then, although I am distinctly of opinion that I rightly carried
out the intentions of the statute by describing myself as "the head of the family," my wife
takes an opposite view of the question. In making the other entries, I had no great difficulty.
The ages of my domestics, however, caused me some surprise. I had always imagined (and they
have given me their faithful and valuable services I am glad to say for a long time) that the
years in which they were born varied. But no, I was wrong. I found they were all of the same
age--two-and-twenty. To refer to another class of my household--I described my son, SHALLOW
NORTH BRIEFLESS (the first is an old family name of forensic celebrity, and the second an appropriate
compliment to a distinguished member of the judicial Bench, whose courtesy to the Junior Bar
is proverbial) as a "scholar," but rejected his (SHALLOW's) suggestion that I should add to
the description of his brother (one of my younger sons, GEORGE LEWIS VAN TROMP CHESTER MOTE
BOLTON BRIEFLESS--I selected his Christian names in anticipated recognition of possible professional
favours to be conferred on him in after-life) the words "imbecile from his birth," as frivolous,
untrue, and even libellous. We had but one untoward incident. In the early morning of Monday
we found in our area a person who had evidently passed the night there in a condition of helpless
intoxication. As she could offer no satisfactory explanation of her presence, I handed her
over to the police, and entered her on the Census Paper as, "a supposed retired laundress,
seemingly living on her own means, and apparently blind from the date of her last drinking-bout."
I rejected advisedly her own indistinctly but frequently reiterated assertion that "she was
a lady," because I had been warned by "the general instructions" to avoid such "indefinite
terms as Esquire or Gentleman."

As I wished to deliver my completed schedule to the "Appointed Enumerator" in person, I desired
that he might be shown into my study when he called for the paper.

"Excuse me, Sir," he said, after looking through the document at my request; "but you see there
is a fine of a fiver for wilfully giving false information."

"Yes," I returned, somewhat surprised at the suggestion; "and the proposed penalty has rendered
me doubly anxious to be absolutely accurate. Do you notice any slip of the pen?"

"Well, Sir," he answered, with some hesitation, "as the young chap who does the boots tells
me that he has never heard of you having had a single brief while he's been with you, and that's
coming three years, hadn't you better put 'retired' after 'Barrister-at-Law'? It will do no
harm, and certingly would be safer!"

Put "retired" after Barrister-at-Law! "Do no harm!" and be "safer!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I silently intimated by a dignified gesture to the "Appointed Enumerator." that our interview
was at an end, and then, taking my walking-stick with me, went in earnest and diligent search
of "the young chap who does the boots!"

(Signed) A. BRIEFLESS, JUNIOR.

Pump-Handle Court, April 7, 1891.

       *       *       *       *       *

"UP, GUARDS, AND ACT 'EM!"

The "them" in this adapted quotation must be taken to mean "Burlesques;" and if these gay and
lighthearted soldiers continue their histrionics as victoriously as they have done up to now,
they will become celebrated as "The Grinny-diers-and-Burlesque-Line-Regiments." Private MCGREEVY,
as a cockatoo, capital: his disguise obliterated him, but as Ensign and Lieutenant WAGGIBONE
stealthily observed, "What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't MCGREEVY for." The music,
by the talented descendant of Israel's wise King SOLOMON, was of course good throughout, and
in the Cockatoo Duet better than ever. The ladies were exceptionally good. Mrs. CRUTCHLEY defied
the omen of her name, which is not suggestive of dancing, and "Jigged away muchly Did Mrs.
CRUTCHLEY." The Misses SAVILE CLARKE,--the Savilians among the Military,--were charming. Lieutenant
NUGENT is an old hand at this, and his Paul Prior was not a whit behind his former performances.
There's one more Guard O, Major RICARDO. He played Crusoe, And well did he do so! Three cheers
for everybody! With the Guards' Burlesque, we fear no foe. Chorus, Gentlemen, if you please,
"We fear no foe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD (CRICKETING) 'OSS AND THE YOUNG (GLOUCESTER) COLTS.

  Fifty, not out! A good start beyond doubt,
    In a Twenty-four field, Doctor W.G.
  And may Ninety-one bring us lots of good fun,
    With you at the Wickets for Figures of Three,
  To see the Old 'Oss stir in good time to foster
  The coming-on "Colts," should give courage to Glo'ster!

       *       *       *       *       *

"SUCH A DAWG!"

The enclosed was cut from The Field of last week:--

    R. ---- ---- WANTS some friend to give him a small BULLDOG
    with a smile, for a house pet.--To be sent for inspection to,
    &c.

It is to be hoped that the advertiser will not get an animal that (to quote from Hamlet) "may
smile and smile and be a villain!"

       *       *       *       *       *

IGNOTUS.

  Prate not about Fame! I've addressed half the world,
    In Court and in cottage, in Castle and slum!
  I've been warbled, and chorussed, and tootled, and skirled,
    Yet, for kudos, I might just as well have been dumb.
  Though familiar to all men, I'm wholly unknown;
    You're inclined to pooh-pooh, and to say I am wrong?
  Nay, listen, and you my correctness will own:
    'Tis I wrote the words of a Popular Song!

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW AND INTERESTING WORK.--As a companion to Dr. WRIGHT's The Ice Ages in North America and
its bearing upon the Antiquity of Man, will shortly appear The Penny-Ice Age in London and
its bearing on the Youth of the Metropolis.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BRUMMAGEM BOLUS.

(BY AN ELATE LIBERAL-UNIONIST.)

  An "ill-starred abortion" WEG christened our party;
    At present, as JOE hints, that sounds quite ironic.
  True, lately our health did appear far from hearty,
    But Aston has acted As-tonic!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE FOR CRITICS.--How can any of us expect the truth from a historian who himself tells us
that he merely "transcribes from MSS. lying before him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THE ITALIANS SEEM TO WANT IN LOUISIANA.--An unfair field, or no FAVA!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A FAIR EXCHANGE.

    HOSEA BIGLOW speaks up on the situation:--

  Here we stan' on the Constitution, by thunder!
    State rights won't be hurried by any one's hoofs;
  UMBERTO, old hoss, would you like, I wonder,
    To 'pologise first, and then bring up yer proofs?
  Uncle SAM is free, and he sez, sez he:--
      "The Mafia's no more
      Right to come to this shore,
  No more'n the Molly Maguires," sez he.

  Uncle SAM ain't no kind o' bisness with nothin'
    Like stabs in the back,--that may do for slaves.
  We ain't none riled by their frettin' an' frothin'
    Who shriek, in Hitalian, across the waves.
  Uncle SAM is free, but he sez, sez he:--
      "He will put down his foot
      On the right to shoot
  As claimed by the Mafia gang!" sez he.

  Freedom's keystone is Law, yes; that there's no doubt on,
    It's sutthin that's--wha' d'ye call it?--divine,--
  The brutes who break it hain't nutthin' to boast on
    On your side or mine o' the seethin' brine.
  Uncle Sam is free, and he sez, sez he:--
      "If assassins gang 'em
      I'm game to hang 'em,
  An' so git rid on 'em soon," sez he.

  'Tis well for sleek cits for to lounge on their soffies,
    And chat about "Law and Order," an' sich.
  A formula pleasant for them in office,
    Home-stayin' idlers, well-guarded rich.
  Uncle SAM is free, but he sez, sez he:--
      "Whar life's a fight,
      Law, based on right,
  May need the 'strong arm' of a Man," sez he.

  Now don't go to say I'm the friend of force;
    Best keep all your spare breath for coolin' your broth;
  And when just Law has a fair clar course,
    All talk of "wild justice" is frenzy and froth.
  Uncle SAM is free, but he sez, sez he:--
      "If he gits within hail
      Of the Glan-na-Gael,
  Or the Mafia either, he shoots," sez he.

  This ain't no matter for sauce or swagger--
    Too summary judgment both scout, I hope;
  Though ef it's a chice betwixt rope and dagger,
    I can't help sayin' I prefer the rope.
  Uncle SAM is free, and he sez, sez he:--
      "At a pinch I'll not flinch
      From a touch of Lynch,--
  That is--at a very hard pinch!" sez he.

  But Lynch Law, UMBERTO, or Secret Society,
    Both are bad, though the latter's wust;
  We'll soon get shut of either variety,
    You and me, UMBERTO, or so I trust.
  Uncle SAM is free, but he sez, sez he:--
      "Assassination
      Won't build a nation,
  Nor yet the unlegalised rope," sez he.

  Withdraw your Ambassador! Wal, that air summary!
    Italian irons so soon git hot!
  Ironclads? Sure that's mere militant flummery.
    Don't want to rile, but I'll tell you what:
  Uncle SAM is free, but he sez, sez he:--
      "Let FAVA stay,
      Take the Mafia away,
  And we'll call it aright square deal!" sez he.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRESENTED AT COURT.--Acting upon the suggestions made in these columns a week ago, the Author
of The Volcano, and the company of the Court Theatre have effected the most valuable alterations
in the play of the evening. The Second Act now concludes with the interrupted singing of The
Wolf, which brings down the Curtain with a roar of laughter, and the Third Act is also generally
improved. Mrs. JOHN WOOD is seen at her best as the interviewing lady-journalist, which is
condensing in a sentence a volume of praise. Mr. ARTHUR CECIL, as the Duke, is equally admirable;
and Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH, although scarcely in his element as a Member of Parliament of noble
birth, is distinctly amusing. Altogether, The Volcano causes explosions of merriment in all
parts of the house, and has entirely escaped the once-impending danger of fizzling out like
a damp squib.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A COMPLAINT OF THE CENSUS.

(BY A DISAPPOINTED DUKE.)

    [For the first time the sixth column in the Census Schedule is
    simply headed "Profession or Occupation."]

  Oh! I'm a reg'lar rightdown Duke:
  The trying part I act and look
    Right nobly, so they tell me.
  Yet I would have you understand
  Why I am thoroughly unmanned
    At what of late befell me.

  A week or something less ago,
  A schedule came to let me know
    The Census Day was Sunday.
  The many details, one and all,
  Must he filled in, and then they'd call
    To fetch it on the Monday.

  I found it easy to contrive
  To answer columns one to five--
    I filled them up discreetly;
  But when I came to column six
  I got into an awful fix,
    And lost my head completely.

  For "Rank" alas! had disappeared.
  I'd never for an instant feared
    It wouldn't really be there.
  Your "Occupation" you could state,
  "Profession," too, you might relate,
    But I--a Duke--had neither!

  His Grace the Duke of PLAZA-TOR'
  Would call himself, I'm pretty sure,
    A "public entertainer."
  But I and my blue-blooded wife,
  We lead a simple blameless life,
    No life could well be plainer.

  In such a plight what could I do?
  I searched the paper through and through,
    Each paragraph I read. You'll
  Scarce credit it but those who "live
  On their own means" had got to give
    This statement in the schedule!

  I put it, but my ducal pen
  I saw distinctly sputtered when
    I did so. All of which he
  Will please remember when I say
  I thought it in a minor way
    Unkind of Mr. RITCHIE!

       *       *       *       *       *

MICKY FREE IN PARIS.

As to the incident which recently appeared in the papers under the head-line "Insulting an
Ambassador," our old friend MICKY writes us as follows:--"Be jabers then, ye must know the
truth. Me and Count MUNSTER was drivin' together. The Count's every bit a true-born son of
Ould Ireland for ever, and descended from the Kings of Munster by both sides, and more betoken
wasn't he wearin' an Ulster at the very moment, and isn't he the best of chums with the Dukes
of CONNAUGHT and LEINSTER? Any way we were in our baroosh passin' the time o' day to one another
as we were drivin' in the Bore, when whack comes a loaf o' bread, shied at our heads by an
unknown military blaygaird. It missed me noble friend, the Count, and, as if to give him a
lesson in politeness, it just took off the hat of a domestic alongside the coachman on the
box. 'Tunder and turf!' says I, preparing to descend, and give the scoundrels a taste of my
blackthorn all round. 'Whist! be aisy now, MICKY,' says the Ambassador to me, in what is, betune
ourselves, his own native tongue; and with that he picks up the loaf, sniffs at it, makes a
wry face ('it's a rye loaf,' says I), and then says he, out loud, with a supercilious look,
'Ill-bred!' Begorra, there was a whoop o' delight went up all round, which same was a sign
of their purliteness, as divil a one of the ignoramuses could onderstand a wurrd the Court
said in English or German, let alone Irish. 'Goot,' says MUNSTER to me, dropping into his German
accent, which, on occasion, comes quite natural to him--the cratur! 'I'll give the loaf to
the dog;' and he whistles up the mastiff, own brother to BISMARCK's. 'Eh, MICKY, ye gossoon,
isn't the proverb, "Loaf me, loaf my dog"?' Ah! then was cheers for ould Ireland, and a mighty
big dhrink entirely we had that same night.

"Yours as ever, M.F."

       *       *       *       *       *

HERRICK UP TO DATE.

(AFTER "THE BRACELET TO JULIA.")

  Why tye I about thy wrist,
  JULIA, this my silken twist?
  For what other reason is't,
  But to show (in theorie)
  Thou sweet captive art to me;
  Which, of course, is fiddlededee!
  Runne and aske the nearest Judge,
  He will tell thee 'tis pure fudge;
  When thou willest, thou mayst trudge;
  I'm thy Bondslave, Hymen's pact
  Bindeth me in law and fact;
  Thou art free in will and act;
  'Tis but silke that bindeth thee,
  Snap the thread, and thou art free:
  But 'tis otherwise with me.
  I am bound, and bound fast so
  That from thee I cannot go.
  (Hah! We'll have this altered, though.
  Man must be a wing-clipp'd goose
  If he bows to Hymen's noose,--
  Heads you winne, and tails I lose!)

       *       *       *       *       *

MAGAZINE MANNERS.

Editor to Eminent Writer.--Review promises to be deadly slow next month. Can you do something
slashing for us? Pitch into somebody or other--you know the style.

Eminent Writer to Editor.--Happy to oblige. Got old article handy advocating cession of Canada
and India to the French. Never wrote anything more ripping. Pitches into everybody. Touching
it up, and will let you have it in two days. By the bye, telegraph people put a K to my Christian
name. Tell them not to do it again.

Editor to Eminent Writer (a week later).--Sorry about the K. Got your article. Not quite what
I wanted. Style all right, but arguments idiotic. Can't you take the other side? Much more popular.

Eminent Writer to Editor.--Idea insulting. Any more telegrams of that sort, and I contribute
in future to the Shortsprightly Review, not yours!

Editor to Eminent Writer.--No offence meant. Is there any other Review besides mine? Never
heard of the one you mentioned.

Eminent Writer to Editor (a month later).--I say, what's this? Virulent personal attack on
me in your Review, signed with your name! Pretends my article on giving up Canada, &c., was
all a joke! Am I the sort of man who would joke about anything? Reply at once, with apology,
or I skin you alive in next Number of Shortsprightly.

Editor to Eminent Writer.--Sorry you're offended. I thought my Article rather a moderate one.
Quite true that I talk about falsehood, hypocrites, effrontery, demagogues, Pharisees, and
so on; but expressions to be taken in strictly Pickwickian sense, and of course not intended
for you.

Eminent Writer to Editor.--Explanation unsatisfactory. You first insert contribution, and then
slate it. Do you call yourself an Editor?

Editor to Eminent Writer.--Rather think I do call myself Editor. Couldn't insert that humbug
about India and Canada without reply. By the bye, have forgotten if you spell Christian name
with or without K? Important. Wire back.

Eminent Writer to Editor.--Yah! Look out for next Shortsprightly, that's all! Article entitled,
"Editorial Horseplay." It'll give you fits, or my name isn't--FREDERIC, without the K.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER'S!

(A ONCE REJECTED ADDRESS.)

  Yes! Thou must be another's. Oh,
    Such anguish stands alone!
  I'd always fancied thou wert so
    Peculiarly mine own;
  No welcome doubt my soul can free;
    A convict may not choose--
  Yet, since another's thou must be,
    Most kindly tell me whose?

  Is it the Lord of Shilling Thrills
    Who penned The Black that Mails--
  That martial man who from the hills
    Excogitates his tales?
  Is it ubiquitous A. LANG?
    Nay, shrink not but explain
  To which of all the writing gang
    Dost properly pertain?

  Perchance to some provincial churl,
    Who blushes quite unseen?
  Perchance to some ambitious Earl
    Or Stockbroker, I ween?
  Such things have frequently occurred,
    And gems like thee have crowned
  The titular and moneyed herd,
    And made them nigh renowned.

  I know not, this alone is clear,
    Thou wert my sole delight;
  I pored on thee by sunshine, dear,
    I dreamed of thee at night.
  Thou wert so good--too splendid for
    The common critic's praise--
  And I was thy proprietor--
    And all the world must gaze!

  But Punch, that autocrat, decrees
    That thou another's art:
  I cannot choose but bow my knees
    And lacerate my heart.
  Thou must be someone's else, alack!
    The truth remains confessed--
  For Mr. P. hath sent thee back,
    My cherished little Jest.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM A FLY-LEAF.--"Buzziness first, pleasure after," as the bluebottle said when, after circling
three times about the breakfast-table, he alighted on a lump of sugar.

       *       *       *       *       *

SALISBURY AT ST. MARTINS'S-LE-GRAND.

  How slow is fate from fatal friends to free us!
  Still, still, alas! 'tis "Ego et RAIKES meus."

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE OXFORD MOVEMENT."--Not much to choose between this and the Cambridge movement in the last
race.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLACE OF BANISHMENT FOR MISTAKEN PERSONS.--The Isle of Mull.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

EARL GRANVILLE.

BORN IN 1815. DIED 31ST MARCH, 1891.

  The coarser Cyclops now combine
    To push the Olympians from their places;
  And dead as Pan seems the old line
    Of greater gods and gentler graces.
  Pleasant, amidst the clangour crude
    Of smiting hammer, sounding anvil,
  As bland Arcadian interlude,
    The courtly accents of a GRANVILLE!

  A strenuous time's pedestrian muse
    Shouts pæans to the earth-born giant,
  Whose brows Apollo's wreath refuse,
    Whose strength to Charis is unpliant.
  Demos distrusts the debonair,
    Yet Demos found himself disarming
  To gracious GRANVILLE; unaware
    Won by the calm, witched by the charming.

  Bismarckian vigour, stern and stark
    As Brontes self, was not his dower;
  Not his to steer a storm-tost bark
    Through waves that whelm, and clouds that lower.
  Temper unstirred, unerring tact,
    Were his. He could not "wave the banner,"
  But he could lend to steely act
    The softly silken charm of manner.

  Kindly, accomplished, with a wit
    Lambent yet bland, like summer lightning;
  Venomless rapier-point, whose "hit"
    Was palpable, yet painless. Brightening
  E'en, party conflict with a touch
    Of old-world grace fight could not ruffle!
  Faith, GRANVILLE, we shall miss thee much
    Where kites and crows of faction scuffle!

       *       *       *       *       *

AN IRISH DIAMOND.--The Cork Examiner of 28th ultimo contained an official advertisement, signed
by the High Sheriff of the County of the City of Cork, requesting certain persons connected
with the Spring Assizes to attend at the Model Schools, as the Court House had been destroyed
by fire. Amongst those thus politely invited to be present on so interesting an occasion were
the Prisoners!

       *       *       *       *       *

PATERFAMILIAS ON HIS CENSUS PAPER.

  Head of the Family! That makes me quail.
  I am the Head--and thereby hangs a tale!
  This big blue paper, ruled in many a column,
  Gives rise to some misgivings sad and solemn.
  Relation to that Head? That Head's buzz-brained,
  And its "relations" are--just now--"much strained."
  Citizen-duty I've no wish to shirk,
  But would the State do its own dirty work--
  (My daughters swear 'tis dirty). I'd be grateful.
  Instructions? Yes! Imperative and fateful!
  But, oh! I wish they would "instruct" me how
  To tell the truth without a family row.
  "Best of my knowledge and belief"! Ah well
  If Aunt MEHITABEL her age won't tell;
  If Cook will swear she's only thirty-three,
  And rather fancies she was born at sea
  (Where I am now) my "knowledge and belief"
  Are not worth much to the official chief,
  BRIDGES P. HENNIKER, if he only knew it.
  A True Return? Well, if it is not true, it
  Is not my fault. Inquisitorial band,
  I've done my level best--Witness my Hand!
  The bothering business makes me feel quite bilious,
  Peace now--for ten years more!

PATERFAMILIAS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FACTA NON VERBA"; OR, PIERROT IN LONDON.

"Of the best! of the very best!" as ZERO or CIRO is perpetually affirming of everything eatable
and drinkable that is for his own benefit and his customers' refreshment at the little bar,
not a hundred miles from the Monte Carlo tables, where he himself and his barristers practise
day and night; and, as this famous cutter of sandwiches and confectioner of drinks says of
his stock in trade, so say we of L'Enfant Prodigue, which, having been translated by HORATIUS
COCLES SEDGER from Paris to London, has gone straight to the heart and intelligence of our
Theatre-loving public.

It is a subject for curious reflection that, just when the comic scenes of our English Pantomime
have been crushed out by overpowering weight of gorgeous spectacle, there should re-appear
in our midst a revival of the ancient Pierrot who pantomimed himself into public favour with
the Parisians towards the close of the seventeenth century. Red-hot poker, sausages, and filching
Clown have had their day, and lo! when everyone said we were tired of the "comic business"
of Pantomime, here in our midst re-appear almost in their habits as they lived, certainly with
their white faces and black skull-caps "as they appeared," a pair of marvellously clever Pierrots.
Mlle. JANE MAY as Pierrot Junior, "the Prodigy son," and M. COURTÈS as Pierrot Senior, are
already drawing the town to Matinées at the Prince of Wales's, causing us to laugh at them
and with them in their joys, and to weep with them in their mimic sorrows. Yes! Pierrot redivivus!

Mind you, it is not a piece for children; make no mistake about that; they will only laugh
at the antics, be ignorant of the story, and be untouched by its truth and pathos. All are
good. We like the naughty blanchisseuse the least of the characters, and wish she had been
plus petite que ça. But is it not in nature that the prodigal infant (veritable boy is Mlle.
JANE MAY) should fall in love with a young woman some years his senior, and far beyond him
in experience of the world? Why certainly. Then the Baron, played with great humour by M. LOUIS
GOUGET, who wins the Mistress with his diamonds, and the inimitable Black Servant, M. JEAN
ARCUEIL, who laughs at poor little Pierrot, and cringes to his wealthy rival and successor,--are
they not both admirable? As for the acting of Madame SCHMIDT as Madame Pierrot, loving wife
and devoted mother, it is, as it should be, "too good for words." Her pantomimic action is
so sympathetic throughout, so--well, in fact, perfect. Who wants to hear them speak? Facta
non verba is their motto. Yet with what gusto the Black, heavily bribed, mouths out the titled
Baron's name, though never a syllable does he utter! It is all most excellent make-believe.

Vive Pierrot à Londres! We see him much the same as he was when he delighted the Parisians
in 1830,--"Avec sa grand casaque à gros boutons, son large pantalon flottant, ses souliers
blancs comme le rests, son visage enfariné, sa tête couverte d'un serre-tête noir ... le véritable
Pierrot avec sa bonhomie naïve ... ses joies d'enfant, et ses chagrins d'un effet si comique"--and
also so pathetic.

If this entertainment could be given at night, the house would be crammed during a long run;
but afternoon possibilities are limited. More than a word of praise must be given to M. ANDRÉ
WORMSER's music, which, personally conducted by Mr. CROOK, goes hand in hand with the story
written by MICHEL CARRÉ FILS, and illustrated by these clever pantomimists. No amateur of good
acting should fail to see this performance. Verb. sap.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Salon this year, the Athenæum says, "a Grand Salon de Repos will be provided." For pictures
of "still life" only, we suppose. Will Sir FREDERICK, P.R.A., act on the suggestion, and set
aside one of the rooms in Burlington House as a Dormitory?

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Aha! special attraction in The New Review! "April Fool's Day Poem," by ALFRED AUSTIN, and,
an announcement on the cover that "This number contains a Picture of Miss ELLEN TERRY in one
of her earliest parts." Oh, dear! I wish it didn't contain this picture, which is a bleared
red photograph of Misses KATE and ELLEN TERRY, "as they appeared" (as they never could appear,
I'm sure) in an entertainment which achieved a great success in the provinces--but not with
this red-Indian picture as a poster. Of course it may be intended as compliment-terry; it may
mean "always entertaining and ever reddy." However, the picture is naught, except as a curiosity;
but the first instalment of our ELLEN's reminiscences is delightfully written, because given
quite naturally, just as the celebrated actress herself would dictate--(of course she never
has to "dictate," as her scarcely-breathed wish is a law)--to her pleasantly-tasked amanuensis.
Next lot, please!

In Macmillan's for this month, ANDRÉ HOPE tells a fluttering tale in recounting "A Mystery
of Old Gray's Inn." It would have come well from that weird old clerk, to whom Mr. Pickwick
listened with interest during the convivialities at the "Magpie and Stump." It should take
a prominent place in the proposed new issue of Half Hours with Jumpy Authors.

The Baron has just read a delightful paper on "The Bretons at Home," by CHARLES G. WOOD, in
the Argosy, for this month. The Baron who has been there, and still would go if he could, but,
as he can't, he is contented to let "WOOD go" without him, and to read the latter's tales of
a traveller.

Turf Celebrities I have Known, by WILLIAM DAY, is a gossipy, snarly sort of book; casting a
rather murky or grey Day-light on a considerable number of Celebrities who were once on the
turf, and are now under it. But the Baron not being himself either on the turf or under it,
supposes that this DAY is an authority, as was once upon a time, that is, only the other day,
the Dey of ALGIERS. But this DAY is not of Algiers, but of All-gibes. Ordinarily it is true
that "Every dog has his day." Exceptions prove the rule, and it would appear from this book--"not
the first 'book,' I suppose," quoth the Baron, "that Mr. DAY has 'made' or assisted in 'making,'"--that
not every dog did not 'have' this particular Day, but that some dogs did. The writer has missed
the chance of a good title--not for himself, but for his book. He should have it an autobiography,
and then call it, "De Die in Diem; or, Day by Day."

Everyone's truly, THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT IT WILL COME TO!

(A FRAGMENT FROM A MILITARY-COMMERCIAL ROMANCE OF THE FUTURE.)

And so Mr. ELLERSDEE approached his proposed recruit, and invited him to lunch to discuss the
matter quietly.

"You are very good," returned the other, "but I can assure you I eat nothing before dinner.
Won't you have a cigar?"

Mr. ELLERSDEE accepted the proffered kindness, and remarked upon the excellent quality of the
tobacco.

"Yes," assented his companion, "it is not half bad, for we get all our supplies from the Stores;
and now what can I do for you?"

Then Mr. ELLERSDEE unfolded his sad story. England was losing her commercial prosperity, owing
to a scarcity of labourers, artisans, nay, even clerks. The Empire was in as bad a condition
as those foreign countries in which forced military service was established. Like France and
Germany, trade was being ruined by the Army. Would not the young man desert, and become a recruit
in the Labour League?

"My dear friend," was the reply, "I hope I am as patriotic as most people, but I cannot sacrifice
my just interest entirely to sentiment. What can you give me in exchange for my present life?
I have recreation-rooms, libraries, polytechnics, and every sort of amusement?"

"But also drill and discipline," urged the other.

"Which I am told by my medical attendant (whose services by the way are gratuitous), are excellent
for my health. This being so, I can scarcely complain of those institutions. Then I have excellent
pay and ample food. Now, I ask you frankly, can the advantages offered by Trade compare for
a moment with the privileges, as a soldier, I now enjoy? Tell me frankly, shall I improve my
position by giving up the Army?"

And Mr. ELLERSDEE was compelled to answer in the negative!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DIARY OF AN OLD JOKE.

(POSTHUMOUSLY PRINTED BY KIND PERMISSION OF WIT, HUMOUR, & CO., LIMITED.)

April 1.--My birthday; have no idea which. Old as the hills, but not quite so pointed; venerable,
but broken down, and used up; not the Joke I used to be; once the rich darling of Society:
but it (Society) didn't pay, so had to work hard for a living. Tit Bits, the National Observer,
and the Chancery Judges, have impoverished me. Never mind--I'll be revenged--resolve to keep
a Diary--"weekly diary of a weakly"--oh dear! my old infirmity again. Must really be more careful.

April 2.--In with the rest of them, for a (North-) Easter outing. HACKING, in the train, tried
to palm me off upon HORNBLOWER, who had actually the impudence to affect that he "couldn't
see me"; as if I hadn't obviously made his reputation for years! The best of it is, that HORNBLOWER
is always airing me in public, and dropping me in private. Blow HORNBLOWER!

April 3.--Out to dinner. What a hypocrite Society is! Everyone pretended never to have heard
me before. I was allotted to Miss HORNBLOWER (worse luck!) and she positively called me "Her
own!"--at my age, too! It's indecent. Complained to HORNBLOWER, who now faced round, and maintained
that he was the first to bring me out. I could almost have cried. No wonder I fell flat, and
injured myself. Why, Sir, SIDNEY SMITH was my godfather, and was always trotting me out as
a prodigy, and trading on me. I supported him, Sir, when I was but an infant phenomenon; I
supported him--but I can't support HORNBLOWER.

April 4.--Went to the theatre, as I was told I figured in the play; claimed a free pass to
the Stalls from the box-office boy, who was rude; showed him my card; he looked scared, and
said it was all right. The actors were full of me: very gratifying; but everybody laughed!
Just like their cheek! There's nothing laughable, I should fancy, about anything so played
out as I've become. Ugh! how I detest irreverence! HORNBLOWER and HACKING have both written
to the papers, maintaining that I belong to them, and that the theatre has no right to have
me impersonated on the Stage; they term it "Thought Transference," "The Brain-Wave," or something
outlandish; and to think that HACKING, who reviews HORNBLOWER's effusions, once spoke of me
as stale! They had better not try my patience too far, I can tell them.

April 5.--Sunday. Want change, and rest. Made for the O'WILDE's sanctum. Cabman took the change,
and O'WILDE the rest. Have known all the celebrities of the century, but like O'W. the most.
For one so young, he's truly affable; made me quite at home; promised to put me up--or in,
I forget which; and then he uttered this remarkable "preface"--"Jokes are neither old nor young:
they are simply mine or thine--that is all." Nevertheless. I'm sure to be in his bad books
before long.

April 6.--"Horrible outrage--an Old Joke, in trouble again"--so run the newspaper placards--was
collared forcibly by two masked ruffians in Grub Street, and dispatched post-haste to Punch
office. Mr. P., however, had known me from a boy, and was not to be imposed upon. He sent me
back promptly, on Her Majesty's Service, warning me that, unless I went off, I should probably
be knocked on the head. Dear EVERGREEN POLICINELLO! but not so evergreen as all that. He knows
my constitution won't stand these liberties. The desperadoes turn out to be HORNBLOWER and
HACKING, as I suspected. In defence they alleged I had struck them forcibly! Mr. P. vows he'll
proceed against them for nuisance--interfering with Ancient Lights.

April 7.--Very weak, from effects of yesterday. The heart taken out of me. Consult my Doctor.
To judge from the prints in his waiting-room, I'm popular enough still with his patients. Says
I'm suffering from a bad attack of Printer's Devils, but can't make me younger; replied that
my desire was to be older. He looked grave, and rejoined, "Impossible"; prescribed a course
of Attic salts; as I came out, met Sir WILFRID LAWSON. He declares I don't look a day older
than when he first knew me; but then, he's licensed to be sober on the premises! Ah, how I
love the House of Commons!

April 8.--Worn to a skeleton; sinking fast, but I'll die hard. Make my will. Bequeath Autographs
of TALLEYRAND and JOE MILLER to Madame Tussaud's; everything else to be sold for the foundation
of an Asylum for Old Jokes. A knock at the door. Heaven help me!--two Interviewers! "Come in,"
I said, with the conventional "cheery voice." Anticipated the worst, but worse than I anticipated.
HORNBLOWER and HACKING are brooding over me; assert they have been sent by the LORD MAYOR.
"Thought Transference" again! Well, I should have committed suicide, and now I can be released
without crime. It won't last long. If I might suggest my obsequies, I should like to be cremated
in Type. HACKING begs my blessing, and pretends to weep at hearing the last of me. Hope I shan't
ever have to haunt HORNBLOWER!

Editor's Postscript.--We have paid a pious visit to his last Jesting-place; on the urn is inscribed,--

PLEASE TO FORGET THE GHOST OF THE SAME OLD JOKE.

