Some extracts from these letters have already appeared in the "Early Married Life of Maria
Josepha, Lady Stanley," but are here inserted again by kind permission of Messrs. Longman,
and complete Bishop Stanley's correspondence.

Portions of letters quoted in Dean Stanley's volume, "Edward and Catherine Stanley," have also
been used with Messrs. Murray's consent.

In addition to the MSS. at Llanfawr, Lord Stanley of Alderley has kindly contributed some original
letters in his possession.

J.H.A.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"LE COURIER DU RHIN"                                   Frontispiece

Sketch brought to England 1814 by General Scott of Thorpe, one of the detenus in France for
ten years after the rupture of the Peache of Amiens, mentioned page 73.

BISHOP STANLEY                                       To face page 2

By John Linnell. From a drawing in the possession of Canon J. Hugh Way, Henbury.

MARGARET OWEN, LADY STANLEY                              "         10

From a miniature in the possession of Lady Reade-Carreglwyd, Anglesey.

"FLIGHT OF INTELLECT"                                    "         17

Humorous sketch by E. Stanley.

EDWARD STANLEY, 1800                                     "         25

By P. Green. The original in the possession of Lord Stanley of Alderley, at Penrhos, Anglesey.

THE PRISON OF THE TEMPLE                                 "         31

Sketch by E. Stanley, 1802.

THE GUILLOTINE AT CHALON-SUR-SAÔNE                       "         43

Sketch by E. Stanley,

LORD SHEFFIELD                                           "         73

By Sir Joshua Reynolds, P.R.A. From an engraving in the possession of J.H. Adeane, Lanfavar,
Holyhead.

KITTY LEYCESTER, MRS. EDWARD STANLEY                     "         82

From a drawing by H. Edridge, A.R.A., at Alderley Park, Cheshire.

PARIS, 1814. OLD BRIDGE AND CHÂTELET                     "        108

E. Stanley.

PARIS, LA POMPE, NOTRE DAME                              "        115

E. S.

PARISIAN AMUSEMENTS                                      "        141

E. S.

THE CATACOMBS, PARIS                                     "        143

E. S.

LAON. HOUSES AND TOWER, 1814                             "        161

E. S.

BERRY AU BAC                                             "        164

E. S.

VERDUN. BRIDGE                                           "        168

E. Stanley.

FRENCH DILIGENCE                                         "        193

E. S.

DUTCH SHIPS                                              "        199

E. S.

DUTCH DILIGENCE ON BOARD A BOAT                          "        219

E. S.

GOAT CARRIAGE FOR THE LITTLE KING OF ROME                "        223

E. S.

DUTCH TABLE D'HOTE                                       "        226

E. S.

OLD HOUSES, SAARDAM                                      "        228

E. S.

PETER THE GREAT'S HOUSE, SAARDAM                         "        230

E. S.

DUTCH FISHERMEN                                          "        233

E. S.

DUTCH CARRIAGE                                           "        234

E. S.

CORN MILLS AT VERNON                                     "        247

E. S.

FRENCH CABRIOLET                                         "        260

E. S.

HOUGOUMONT                                               "        263

E. S.

INTERIOR OF HOUGOUMONT                                   "        265

E. S.

LA BELLE ALLIANCE                                        "        267

E. S.

WATERLOO                                                 "        270

E. S.

GHENT. ST. NICHOLAS                                      "        274

E. S.

PORTE DE HALLE, BRUSSELS, LEADING TO WATERLOO            "        276

E. S.

PARISIAN RAT-CATCHER AND ITINERANT VENDORS                "        300

E. S.

THE GREAT GREEN COACH                                    "        306

E. S.

ALDERLEY RECTORY                                           page 308

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF EDWARD STANLEY

The letters which are collected in this volume were written from abroad during the opening
years of the nineteenth century, at three different periods: after the Peace of Amiens in 1802
and 1803, after the Peace of Paris in 1814, and in the year following Waterloo, June, 1816.

The writer, Edward Stanley, was for thirty-three years an active country clergyman, and for
twelve years more a no less active bishop, at a time when such activity was uncommon, though
not so rare as is sometimes now supposed.

Although a member of one of the oldest Cheshire families, he did not share the opinions of
his county neighbours on public questions, and his voice was fearlessly raised on behalf of
causes which are now triumphant, and against abuses which are now forgotten, but which acutely
needed champions and reformers a hundred years ago.

His foreign journeys, and more especially the first of them, had a large share in determining
the opinions which he afterwards maintained against great opposition from many of his own class
and profession. The sight of France still smarting under the effects of the Reign of Terror,
and of other countries still sunk in Mediævalism, helped to make him a Liberal with "a passion
for reform and improvement, but without a passion for destruction."

He was born in 1779, the second son and youngest child of Sir John Stanley, the Squire of Alderley
in Cheshire, and of his wife Margaret Owen (the Welsh heiress of Penrhos in Holyhead Island),
who was one of the "seven lovely Peggies," well known in Anglesey society in the middle of
the eighteenth century.

The pictures of Edward Stanley and his mother, which still hang on the walls of her Anglesey
home, show that he inherited the brilliant Welsh colouring, marked eyebrows and flashing dark
eyes that gave force as well as beauty to her face. From her, too, came the romantic Celtic
imagination and fiery energy which enabled him to find interests everywhere, and to make his
mark in a career which was not the one he would have chosen.

"In early years" (so his son the Dean of Westminster records) "he had acquired a passion for
the sea, which he cherished down to the time of his entrance at college, and which never left
him through life. It first originated, as he believed, in the delight which he experienced,
when between three and four years of age, on a visit to the seaport of Weymouth; and long afterwards
he retained a vivid recollection of the point where he caught the first sight of a ship, and
shed tears because he was not allowed to go on board. So strongly was he possessed by the feeling
thus acquired, that as a child he used to leave his bed and sleep on the shelf of a wardrobe,
for the pleasure of imagining himself in a berth on board a man-of-war.... The passion was
overruled by circumstances beyond his control, but it gave a colour to his whole after-life.
He never ceased to retain a keen interest in everything relating to the navy.... He seemed
instinctively to know the history, character, and state of every ship and every officer in
the service. Old naval captains were often astonished at finding in him a more accurate knowledge
than their own of when, where, how, and under whom, such and such vessels had been employed.
The stories of begging impostors professing to be shipwrecked seamen were detected at once
by his cross-examinations. The sight of a ship, the society of sailors, the embarkation on
a voyage, were always sufficient to inspirit and delight him wherever he might be."

His life, when at his mother's home on the Welsh coast, only increased this liking, and till
he went to Cambridge in 1798 his education had not been calculated to prepare him for a clerical
life. He never received any instruction in classics; of Greek and Latin and mathematics he
knew nothing, and owing to his schools and tutors being constantly changed, his general knowledge
was of a desultory sort.

His force of character, great perseverance and ambition to excel are shown in the strenuous
manner in which he overcame all these obstacles, and at the close of his college career at
St. John's, Cambridge, became a wrangler in the Mathematical Tripos of 1802.

After a year passed in foreign travel Edward Stanley returned home at his brother's request,
and took command of the Alderley Volunteers--a corps of defence raised by him on the family
estate in expectation of a French invasion.

In 1803 he was ordained and became curate of Windlesham, in Surrey. There he remained until
he was presented by his father in 1805 to the living of Alderley, where he threw himself enthusiastically
into his work. He set on foot schemes of education throughout the county as well as at Alderley,
and was foremost in all reforms.

The Chancellor of the diocese wrote of him: "He inherited from his family strong Whig principles,
which he always retained, and he never shrank from advocating those maxims of toleration which
at that time formed the chief watchwords of the Whig party."

He was the first who distinctly saw and boldly advocated the advantages of general education
for the people, and set the example of the extent to which general knowledge might be communicated
in a parochial school.

"To analyse the actual effects of his ministrations on the people would be difficult, ... but
the general result was what might have been expected. Dissent was all but extinguished. The
church was filled, the communicants many."

He helped to found a Clerical Society, which promoted friendly intercourse with clergy holding
various views, and was never afraid of avowing his opinions on subjects he thought vital, lest
he should in consequence become unpopular.

He grudged no trouble about anything he undertook, and the people rejoiced when they heard
"the short, quick tramp of his horse's feet as he went galloping up their lanes." The sick
were visited and cheered, and the children kindly cared for in and out of school.

It was said of him that "whenever there was a drunken fight in the village and he knew of it,
he would always come out to stop it--there was such a spirit in him."

Tidings were once brought to him of a riotous crowd, which had assembled to witness a desperate
prize fight, adjourned to the outskirts of his parish, and which the respectable inhabitants
were unable to disperse. "The whole field" (so one of the humbler neighbours represented it)
"was filled and all the trees round about, when in about a quarter of an hour I saw the Rector
coming up the road on his little black horse as quick as lightning, and I trembled for fear
they should harm him. He rode into the field and just looked round as if he thought the same,
to see who there was that would be on his side. But it was not needed; he rode into the midst
of the crowd and in one moment it was all over. There was a great calm; the blows stopped;
it was as if they would all have wished to cover themselves up in the earth. All from the trees
they dropped down directly. No one said a word and all went away humbled."

The next day the Rector sent for the two men, not to scold them, but to speak to them, and
sent them each away with a Bible. The effect on the neighbourhood was very great, and put a
stop to the practice which had been for some time prevalent in the adjacent districts.

His influence was increased by his early knowledge of the people, and by the long connection
of his family with the place.

Two years after Edward had accepted the incumbency, his father died in London, but he had long
before given up living in Cheshire, and Alderley Park had been occupied at his desire by his
eldest son, afterwards Sir John, who had made his home there since his marriage in 1796.

Both the Stanley brothers married remarkable women. Lady Maria Josepha Holroyd, Sir John's
wife, was the elder daughter of the first Lord Sheffield, the friend and biographer of Gibbon,
and her strong personality impressed every one who met her.

Catherine, wife of the Rector, was the daughter of the Rev. Oswald Leycester, of Stoke Rectory,
in Shropshire. Her father was one of the Leycesters of Toft House, only a few miles from Alderley,
and at Toft most of Catherine's early years were spent. She was engaged to Edward Stanley before
she was seventeen, but did not marry him till nearly two years later, in 1810.

During the interval she spent some time in London with Sir John and Lady Maria Stanley, and
in the literary society of the opening years of the nineteenth century she was much sought
after for her charm and appreciativeness, and for what Sydney Smith called her "porcelain understanding."
The wits and lions of the Miss Berrys' parties vied with each other in making much of her;
Rogers and Scott delighted in her conversation--in short, every one agreed, as her sister-in-law
Maria wrote, that "in Kitty Leycester Edward will indeed have a treasure."

After her marriage she kept up with her friends by active correspondence and by annual visits
to London. Still, "to the outside world she was comparatively unknown; but there was a quiet
wisdom, a rare unselfishness, a calm discrimination, a firm decision which made her judgment
and her influence felt through the whole circle in which she lived." Her power and charm, coupled
with her husband's, made Alderley Rectory an inspiring home to their children, several of whom
inherited talent to a remarkable degree.

Her sister Maria[1] writes from Hodnet, the home of the poet Heber: "I want to know all you
have been doing since the day that bore me away from happy Alderley. Oh! the charm of a rectory
inhabited by a Reginald Heber or an Edward Stanley!"

That Rectory and its surroundings have been perfectly described in the words of the author
of "Memorials of a Quiet Life"[2]: "A low house, with a verandah forming a wide balcony for
the upper storey, where bird-cages hung among the roses; its rooms and passages filled with
pictures, books, and old carved oak furniture. In a country where the flat pasture lands of
Cheshire rise suddenly to the rocky ridge of Alderley Edge, with the Holy Well under an overhanging
cliff; its gnarled pine-trees, its storm-beaten beacon tower ready to give notice of an invasion,
and looking far over the green plain to the smoke which indicates in the horizon the presence
of the great manufacturing towns."

There was constant intercourse between the Park and the Rectory, and the two families with
a large circle of friends led most interesting and busy lives. The Rector took delight in helping
his seven nieces with their Italian and Spanish studies, in fostering their love of poetry
and natural history, and in developing the minds of his own young children. He wrote plays
for them to act and birthday odes for them to recite.

Legends of the countryside, domestic tragedies and comedies were turned into verse, whether
it were the Cheshire legend of the Iron Gates or the fall of Sir John Stanley and his spectacles
into the Alderley mere, the discovery of a butterfly or the loss of "a superfine piece of Bala
flannel."

His caricatures illustrated his droll ideas, as in his sketches of the six "Ologies from Entomology
to Apology." His witty and graceful "Bustle's Banquet" or the "Dinner of the Dogs" made a trio
with the popular poems then recently published of the "Butterfly's Ball" and "The Peacock at Home."

    "And since Insects give Balls and Birds are so gay,
    'Tis high time to prove that we Dogs have our day."

He wrote a "Familiar History of Birds," illustrated by many personal observations, for throughout
his life he never lost a chance of watching wild bird life. In his early days he had had special
opportunities of doing so among the rocks and caverns of Holyhead Island. He tells of the myriads
of sea-birds who used to haunt the South Stack Rock there, in the days when it was almost inaccessible;
and of their dispersal by the building of the first lighthouse there in 1808, when for a time
they deserted it and never returned in such numbers.

His own family at Alderley Rectory consisted of three sons and two daughters.

The eldest son, Owen, had his father's passion for the sea, and was allowed to follow his bent.
His scientific tastes led him to adopt the surveying branch of his profession, and in 1836,
when appointed to the Terror on her expedition to the North Seas, he had charge of the astronomical
and magnetic operations.

When in command of the Britomart, in 1840, he secured the North Island of New Zealand to the
English by landing and hoisting the British flag, having heard that a party of French emigrants
intended to land that day. They did so, but under the protection of the Union Jack.

In 1846 Owen Stanley commanded the Rattlesnake in an important and responsible expedition to
survey the unknown coast of New Guinea; this lasted four years and was very successful, but
the great strain and the shock of his brother Charles' death at Hobart Town, at this time,
were too much for him. He died suddenly on board his ship at Sydney in 1850, "after thirty-three
years' arduous service in every clime."

Professor Huxley, in whose arms he breathed his last, was surgeon to this expedition, and his
first published composition was an article describing it. He speaks of Owen Stanley thus: "Of
all those who were actively engaged upon the survey, the young commander alone was destined
to be robbed of his just rewards; he has raised an enduring monument in his works, and his
epitaph shall be the grateful thanks of many a mariner threading his way among the mazes of
the Coral Seas."

The second and most distinguished of the three sons was Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, of whom it
was said "that in the wideness of his sympathies, the broadness of his toleration, and the
generosity of his temperament the brilliant Dean of Westminster was a true son of his father,
the Bishop of Norwich."

The third son, Charles Edward, a young officer in the Royal Engineers, who had done good work
in the Ordnance Survey of Wales, and was already high in his profession, was suddenly cut off
by fever at his official post in Tasmania in 1849.

The eldest daughter, Mary, had great powers of organisation, was a keen philanthropist and
her father's right hand at Norwich. In 1854 she took charge of a detachment of nurses who followed
Miss Nightingale's pioneer band to the East, and worked devotedly for the Crimean sick and
wounded at the hospital at Koulalee.

Katherine, the youngest daughter, a most original character, married Dr. Vaughan, headmaster
of Harrow, Master of the Temple, and Dean of Llandaff. She survived her whole family and lived
till 1899.

The home at Alderley lasted for thirty-three years, during which Edward Stanley had changed
the whole face of the parish and successfully organised many schemes of improvement in the
conditions of the working classes in his neighbourhood. He could now leave his work to other
hands, and felt that his energies required a wider field, so that when in 1838 Lord Melbourne
offered him the See of Norwich he was induced to accept the offer, though only "after much
hesitation and after a severe struggle, which for a time almost broke down his usual health
and sanguine spirit."

"It would be vain and useless," he said, "to speak to others of what it cost me to leave Alderley";
but to his new sphere he carried the same zeal and indomitable energy which had ever characterised
him, and gained the affection of many who had shuddered at the appointment of a "Liberal Bishop."

At Norwich his work was very arduous and often discouraging. He came in the dawn of the Victorian
age to attack a wall of customs and abuses which had arisen far back in the early Georgian
era, with no hereditary connection or influence in the diocese to counteract the odium that
he incurred as a new-comer by the institution of changes which he deemed necessary.

It was no wonder that for three or four years he had to stem a steady torrent of prejudice
and more or less opposition; but though his broadminded views were often the subject of criticism,
his bitterest opponents could not withstand the genial, kindly spirit in which he met their
objections.

"At the time of his entrance upon his office party feeling was much more intense than it has
been in later years, and of this the county of Norfolk presented, perhaps, as strong examples
as could be found in any part of the kingdom."

The bishop was "a Whig in politics and a staunch supporter of a Whig ministry," but in all
the various questions where politics and theology cross one another he took the free and comprehensive
instead of the precise and exclusive views, and to impress them on others was one chief interest
of his new position.

The indifference to party which he displayed, both in social matters and in his dealings with
his clergy, tended to alienate extreme partisans of whatever section, and at one time caused
him even to be unpopular with the lower classes of Norwich in spite of his sympathies.

The courage with which the Rector had quelled the prize fight at Alderley shone out again in
the Bishop. "I remember," says an eye-witness, "seeing Bishop Stanley, on a memorable occasion,
come out of the Great Hall of St. Andrew's, Norwich. The Chartist mob, who lined the street,
saluted the active, spare little Bishop with hooting and groans. He came out alone and unattended
till he was followed by me and my brother, determined, as the saying is, 'to see him safe home,'
for the mob was highly excited and brutal. Bishop Stanley marched along ten yards, then turned
sharp round and fixed his eagle eyes on the mob, and then marched ten yards more and turned
round again rapidly and gave the same hawk-like look."

His words and actions must often have been startling to his contemporaries; when temperance
was a new cause he publicly spoke in support of the Roman Catholic Father Mathew, who had promoted
it in Ireland; when the idea of any education for the masses was not universally accepted he
advocated admitting the children of Dissenters to the National Schools; and when the stage
had not the position it now holds, he dared to offer hospitality to one of the most distinguished
of its representatives, Jenny Lind, to mark his respect for her life and influence.

For all this he was bitterly censured, but his kindly spirit and friendly intercourse with
his clergy smoothed the way through apparently insurmountable difficulties, and his powerful
aid was ever at hand in any benevolent movement to advise and organise means of help.

In his home at Norwich the Bishop and Mrs. Stanley delighted to welcome guests of every shade
of opinion, and one of them, a member of a well-known Quaker family, has recorded her impression
of her host's conversation. "The Bishop talks, darting from one subject to another, like one
impatient of delay, amusing and pleasant," and he is described on coming to Norwich as having
"a step as quick, a voice as firm, a power of enduring fatigue almost as unbroken as when he
traversed his parish in earlier days or climbed the precipices of the Alps."

In his public life the liveliness of his own interest in scientific pursuits, the ardour with
which he would hail any new discovery, the vividness of his own observation of Nature would
illustrate with an unexpected brilliancy the worn-out topics of a formal speech. Few who were
present at the meeting when the Borneo Mission was first proposed to the London public in 1847
can forget the strain of naval ardour with which the Bishop offered his heartfelt tribute of
moral respect and admiration to the heroic exertions of Sir James Brooke.

It was his highest pleasure to bear witness to the merits or to contribute to the welfare of
British seamen. He seized every opportunity of addressing them on their moral and religious
duties, and many were the rough sailors whose eyes were dimmed with tears among the congregations
of the crews of the Queen and the Rattlesnake, when he preached on board those vessels at Plymouth,
whither he had accompanied his eldest son, Captain Owen Stanley, to witness his embarkation
on his last voyage.

"The sermon," so the Admiral told Dean Stanley twenty years afterwards, "was never forgotten.
The men were so crowded that they almost sat on one another's shoulders, with such attention
and admiration that they could scarcely restrain a cheer."

For twelve years his presence was felt as a power for good through the length and breadth of
his diocese; and after his death, in September, 1849, his memory was long loved and revered.

"I felt as if a sunbeam had passed through my parish," wrote a clergyman from a remote corner
of his diocese, after a visit from him, "and had left me to rejoice in its genial and cheerful
warmth. From that day I would have died to serve him; and I believe that not a few of my humble
flock were animated by the same kind of feeling."

His yearly visits to his former parish of Alderley were looked forward to by those he had known
and loved during his long parochial ministrations as the greatest pleasure of their lives.

"I have been," he writes (in the last year of his life), "in various directions over the parish,
visiting many welcome faces, laughing with the living, weeping over the dying. It is gratifying
to see the cordial familiarity with which they receive me, and Norwich clergy would scarcely
know me by cottage fires, talking over old times with their hands clasped in mine as an old
and dear friend."

Under the light which streams through the stained glass of his own cathedral the remains of
Bishop Stanley rest in the thoroughfare of the great congregation.

"When we were children," said a grey-haired Norfolk rector this very year, "our mother never
allowed us to walk upon the stone covering Bishop Stanley's grave. I have never forgotten it,
and would not walk upon it even now."

CHAPTER I

NEW FRANCE AND OLD EUROPE

Rouen and its theatres--Painted windows--Paris--Costumes à la Française--The guillotine--Geneva--Vetturino
travelling--Italy--Spain--The Ship John of Leith--Gibraltar.

In June, 1802, Edward Stanley started on the first of those foreign journeys which, throughout
his life, continued to be his favourite form of holiday.

He had just left Cambridge, having obtained a brilliant degree, and before taking Orders he
set out with his college friend, Edward Hussey,[3] on the Grand Tour which was then considered
necessary to complete a liberal education.

They were fortunate in the moment of their journey, for the Treaty of Amiens, which had been
concluded only a few months before, had enabled Englishmen to tour safely in France for the
first time for many years; and every scene in France was full of thrilling interest. The marks
of the Reign of Terror were still plainly to be seen, and the new order of things which the
First Consul had inaugurated was only just beginning.

It was an epoch-making journey to a young man fresh from college, and Edward Stanley was deeply
impressed by what he saw.

He could compare his own experiences with those of his brother and father, who had been in
France before the Revolution, and of his sister-in-law, Maria Josepha, who had travelled there
just before the Reign of Terror; and in view of the destruction which had taken place since
then, he was evidently convinced that Napoleon's iron hand was the greatest boon to the country.

He and his companion had the good fortune to leave France before the short interval of peace
ended abruptly, and they were therefore saved from the fate of hundreds of their friends and
fellow-travellers who had thronged across the Channel in 1802, and who were detained by Napoleon
for years against their will.

Edward Stanley and Edward Hussey left France at the end of June, and went on to Switzerland,
Italy, and finally to Spain, where the difficulties and dangers which they met, reveal the
extraordinary dearth of personal comfort and civilised habits among that nation at the time.

The dangers and discomforts did not, however, interfere with the interest and pleasure of the
writer who describes them. Then and ever after, travelling was Edward Stanley's delight, and
he took any adventure in the spirit of the French song--

    "Je suis touriste
     Quel gai métier."

His letters to his father and brother show that he lost no opportunity of getting information
and of recording what he saw; and he began on this journey the first of a long series of sketchbooks,
by which he illustrated his later journeys so profusely.

Edward Stanley to his Father, Sir John T. Stanley, Bart.

ROUEN, June 11, 1802.

MY DEAR FATHER,--You have already heard that I arrived here, & have been fortunate in every
thing since I left England. Our passage from Brighton to Dieppe was short and pleasant, and
so was our stay at Dieppe, which we left the morning after we arrived in it. I never saw France
before the Revolution, & therefore cannot judge of the Contrasted appearance of its towns,
but this I can safely say, that I never before saw such strong marks of Poverty both in the
houses & Inhabitants. I have as yet seen nothing like a Gentleman; probably many may affect
the dress and manners of the lower Orders, in order to screen themselves & may consider that
an outward show of Poverty is the only way of securing what Riches they have. I can conceive
nothing so melancholy.

When I saw fine seats without Windows or with shattered Roofs, & everywhere falling to decay,
I could not help thinking of their unfortunate Owners, who, even if they were lucky enough
to be reinstated in their possessions, might fear to repair their Places, lest an Appearance
of comfort might tempt the Government to seize their Effects. The only Buildings at all tolerable
are the Barracks, which in general are large and well taken care of, & plenty of them there
are in every town and village. Every Person is here a Soldier, ready to turn out at a moment's
warning. This Town is in a flourishing State at present, tho' during the war not a single ship
made its appearance in its Ports; now there are a great number of Vessels, chiefly Dutch. The
Trade is Cotton, for the Manufactory of Stuffs and Handkerchiefs. It is said to be one of the
dearest towns in France; certainly I have not found things very cheap. We were at the Play
last night. An Opera called "La Dot," and an after piece called "Blaise & Bullet" were performed.
The Actors were capital, at Drury Lane they could not have acted better. The House is very
large for a Country Theatre and very pretty, but so shockingly filthy and offensive, that I
wondered any Person could go often, but habit, I suppose, reconciles everything. There were
a great many officers in the Boxes, a haughty set of beings, who treat their Compatriotes in
a very scurvy way. They are the Kings of the place and do what they please. Indeed, we had
a fine Specimen of Liberty during the Performances. An Actress had been sent to Rouen from
Paris, a wretched Performer she was, but from Paris she came, and the Managers were obliged
to accept her & make her act. The Consequence was, she soon got hissed, and a Note was thrown
on the Stage; whatever it was they were not permitted to read or make it public till they had
shewn it to the Officer of Police, who in the present Case would not let them read it. The
hissing was, however, continued from Corners of the House, & one man who sate near us talked
in a high style about the People being imposed on, when in the middle of his Speech I saw this
Man of Liberty jump out of the Box and disappear in an Instant. I opened the Box door to see
what was the cause, when lo! the Lobby was filled with Soldiers, with their Bayonets fix'd,
and the officer was looking about for any Person who might dare to whistle or hiss, and silent
and contented were the Audience the rest of the Performance. I cannot help mentioning a Speech
I heard this very evening at the Play. A Man was sitting near a Lady & very angry he was, &
attempted often to hiss, but was for some time kept quiet by the Lady. At last he lost all
Patience and exclaimed, "Ma Foi, Madame, Je ferai ici comme si jétais en Angleterre où on fait
tout ce qu'on plait." And away he went to hiss; with what effect his determination a l'Angloise
was attended, I have mentioned. I afterwards entered into conversation with the Lady, & when
she told me about the Police Officer not giving permission to read the note, she added, looking
at us, "to you, Gentlemen, this must be a second Comedy." Last night (Sunday) I went to a Fête
about a mile from the Town; we paid 1s. 3d. each. It concluded with a grand Firework. It was
a sort of Vauxhall. In one part of the Gardens they were dancing Cotillons, in another swinging.
In another part bands of Music. I was never so much entertained as with the Dancers; most of
them were Children. One little set in a Cotillon danced in a Style I could not have fancied
possible; you will think I am telling a Traveller's Story when I tell you I thought they performed
nearly as well as I could have seen at the Opera. Here, as at the Theatre, Soldiers kept every
body in awe; a strong party of Dragoons were posted round the Gardens with their horses saddled
close at hand ready to act. I din'd yesterday at a Table d'Hôte, with five French Officers.
In my life I never saw such ill bred Blackguards, dirty in their way of eating, overbearing
in their Conversation, tho' they never condescended to address themselves to us, and more proud
and aristocratical than any of the ci-devant Noblesse could ever have been. From this Moment
I believe all the Accounts I have heard from our officers of the French officers who were prisoners
during the War. They were always insolent, and excepting in some few cases, ungratefull in
the extreme for any kindness shewn to them.

PARIS, June 17th.

The Day before yesterday I arrived in this Metropolis. We left Rouen in a Diligence & had a
pleasant Journey; the Country we passed over was throughout extremely fertile; whatever Scarcity
exists at present in France, it must be of short duration, as the Harvest promises to be abundant,
and as every Field is corn land, the quantity of Grain will be immense. Government has indeed
now taken every precaution. The Ports of Rouen & Dieppe were filled with Ships from Embden
& Dantzig with Corn. Our Diligence was accompanied all the Night by a Guard of Dragoons, and
we passed every now and then parties of Foot Soldiers on the Watch. The reason was, that the
road had lately been infested with Robbers, who attacked the Public Carriages in great numbers,
sometimes to the Amount of 40 together. They in general behaved well to the Passengers, requiring
only any Money belonging to Government which might happen to be in the Carriage. At present
as the Leader is taken and the Band dispersed, there is no Danger, but it is a good excuse
to keep a Number of Troops in that part of the Country. We entered Paris by St. Denis, but
the fine Church and Royal Palace are not now as they were in your time. The Former is in part
unroofed and considerably damaged--the latter is a Barrack and from its outward appearance
seems to have suffered much in the Revolution. The City of Paris on entering it by no means
strikes a stranger. In your time it must have been but tolerable, now it is worse, as every
other house seems to be falling down or to be deserted. We have taken our abode in the Rue
de Vivienne at the Hôtel de Boston, a central Situation and the house tolerably dear. The poor
Hussey suffered so much from a Nest of Buggs the first night, that he after enduring them to
forage on his body for an Hour, left his Bed & passed the night on a sofa. A propos, I must
beg to inform Mr. Hugh Leycester that I paid Attention to the Conveyances on the road & think
that he will have no reason to complain of them; the vehicles are not quite so good as in England
nor are the Horses, but both are still very tolerable. The Inns I slept at were very good,
and the roads by no means bad. I have been to a Play every Night since my arrival in Paris
and shall continue so to do till I have seen all the theatres. The first evening I went to
the "Théâtre de la République"; I am told it is the best. At least the first Actors performed
there. It is not to be compared with any of ours in style of fitting up. The want of light
which first strikes a Stranger's eye on entering a foreign Play-house has its Advantage. It
shews off the Performers and induces the Audience to pay more Attention to ye Stage, but the
brilliant Effect we are used to find on entering our Theatres is wanting. This House is not
fitted up with any taste. I thought the theatre at Rouen preferable. The famous Talma, the
Kemble, acted in a Tragedy, & Mme. Petit, the Mrs. Siddons of Paris, performed. The former,
I think, must have seen Kemble, as he resembles him both in person and style of acting, but
I did not admire him so much. In his silent Acting, however, he was very great. Mme. Petit
acted better than any tragic Actress I have ever seen, excepting Mrs. Siddons. After the Play
last Night I went to the Frascati, a sort of Vauxhall where you pay nothing on entering, but
are expected to take some refreshments. This, Mr. Palmer told me, was the Lounge of the Beau
Monde, who were all to be found here after the Opera & Plays. We have nothing of the sort in
England, therefore I shall not attempt to describe it. We staid here about an hour. The Company
was numerous, & I suppose the best, at least it was better than any I had seen at the Theatres
or in the Walks, but it appeared to me to be very bad. The Men I shall say nothing more of,
they are all the same. They come to all Places in dirty Neckcloths or Pocket Handkerchiefs
tied round their necks & most of them have filthy great Coats & Boots, in short, Dress amongst
the Bucks (& I am told that within this Month or two they are very much improved) seems to
be quite out of the Question. As for the Ladies, O mon Dieu! Madame Récamier's[4] Dress at
Boodles was by no means extraordinary. My sister can describe that and then you may form some
idea of them. By what I can judge from outward appearance, the Morals of Paris must be at a
very low ebb. I may perhaps see more of them, when I go to the Opera & Parties. I have a thousand
things more to say, but have no room. This Letter has been written at such out of the way times
& by little bits at a time, that I know not how you will connect it, but I have not a moment
to spare in the regular Course of the Day. It is now between 6 & 7 o'Clock in the Morning,
and as I cannot find my Cloaths am sitting in a Dress à la Mode d'une Dame Française till Charles
comes up with them. Paris is full of English, amongst others I saw Montague Matthews at the
Frascati. I shall stay here till 5th July, as my chance of seeing Buonaparte depends on my
staying till 4th, when he reviews the Consular Guard. He is a fine fellow by all accounts;
a Military Government when such a head as his manages everything cannot be called a Grievance.
Indeed, it is productive of so much order and regularity, that I begin not to dislike it so
much. At the Theatres you have no disturbance. In the streets Carriages are kept in order--in
short, it is supreme and seems to suit this Country vastly well, but God forbid I should ever
witness it in England. You may write to me and tell others so to do till the 25th of June.
Adieu; I cannot tell when I shall write again. This you know is a Family Epistle, therefore
Farewell to you all.

ED. STANLEY.

I have just paid a visit to Madame de D. She received me very graciously, & strongly pressed
me to stay till 14th of July to be present at the Grand Day. She says Paris is not now worth
seeing, but then every Person will be in Town. If there is no other way of seeing Buonaparte
I believe I shall stay--but I do not wish it--I shall prefer Geneva.

Edward Stanley to his brother, J. T. Stanley.

HOTEL DE BOSTON, RUE VIVIENNE, June 21, 1802.

MY DEAR BROTHER,-- ... I sailed from Brighton on the evening of 8th and was wafted by a fine
Breeze towards this Coast, which we made early on the morning of 9th, but owing to the tide,
which had drifted us too much to leeward of Dieppe, we were unable to land before noon. We
were carried before the Officer of the municipality, who after taking down our names, ages,
& destination, left us to ramble about at pleasure. Whatever Dieppe might have been before
the Revolution, it is now a melancholy-looking place. Large houses falling to ruin. Inhabitants
poor, Streets full of Soldiers, & Churches turned into Stables, Barracks, or Magazines. We
staid there but one night & then proceeded in one of their Diligences to Rouen. These Conveyances
you of course have often seen; they are not as Speedy in their motion as an English Mail Coach,
or as easy as a Curricle, but we have found them very convenient, & shall not complain of our
travelling accommodation if we are always fortunate enough to meet with these vehicles. At
Rouen we staid four days, as the Town is large and well worth seeing; I then made an attempt
to procure you some painted glass; as almost all the Churches and all the Convents are destroyed,
their fine windows are neglected, & the panes broken or carried off by almost every person.
The Stable from whence our Diligence started had some beautiful windows, and had I thought
of it in time I think I might have sent you some. As it was I went to the owner of the Churches
& asked him if he would sell any of the windows. Now tho' ever since he has had possession
of them Everybody has been permitted to demolish at pleasure, he no sooner found that a Stranger
was anxious to procure what to him was of no value, & what he had hitherto thought worth nothing,
than he began to think he might take advantage & therefore told me that he would give me an
answer in a few days if I would wait till he could see what they were worth. As I was going
the next morning I could not hear the result, but I think you could for one guinea purchase
nearly a whole Church window, at least it may be worth your while to send to Liverpool to know
if any Ship is at any time going there. The Proprietor of these Churches is a Banker, by name
Tezart; he lives in la Rue aux Ours.

I arrived in Paris on the 15th, and intend staying even till the 14th of July if I cannot before
then see the chief Consul. Hitherto I have been unfortunate; I have in vain attended at the
Thuilleries when the Consular guard is relieved, and seated myself opposite his box at the
Opera. On the 4th of July, however, there is a Review of his Guard, when he always appears,
then I shall do my utmost to get a view of him. I cannot be introduced as I have not been at
our Court, and no King was ever more fond of Court Etiquette than Buonaparte. He resides in
the Thuilleries; opposite to his windows is the place de Carousel, which he has Separated from
the great Area by a long Iron railing with three Gates. On each side of the 2 side Gates are
placed the famous brazen horses from Venice, the middle Gate has 2 Lodges, where are stationed
Horse Guards. Above this Gate are four Gilt Spears on which are perched the Cock & a Civic
wreath which I at first took for the Roman Eagle, borne before their Consuls, resembling it
in every other respect. These Gates are shut every night and also on every Review day. Paris,
like all the Country, swarms with Soldiers; in Every Street there is a Barrack. In Paris alone
there are upwards of 15 thousand men. I must say nothing of the Government. It is highly necessary
in France for every person, particularly Strangers, to be careful in delivering their opinions;
I can only say that the Slavery of it is infinitely more to my taste than the Freedom of France.
The public Exhibitions (and indeed almost Every thing is public) are on a scale of Liberality
which should put England to the blush. Everything is open without money. The finest library
I ever saw is open Daily to Every person. You have but to ask for any book, & you are furnished
with it, and accommodated with table, pens, ink, & paper. The Louvre, the finest Collection
of pictures and Statues in the world, is likewise open, & not merely open to view. It is filled,
excepting on the public days, with artists who are at liberty to copy anything they please.
Where in England can we boast of anything like this? Our British Museum is only to be seen
by interest, & then shewn in a very cursory manner. Our Public Libraries at the Universities
are equally difficult of access. It is the most politic thing the Government could have done.
The Arts are here encouraged in a most liberal manner. Authors, Painters, Sculptors, and, in
short, all persons in France, have opportunities of improving themselves which can not be found
in any other Country in the World, not even in Britain. You may easily conceive that I who
am fond of painting was most highly Entertained in viewing the Great Gallery of the Louvre,
& yet you will, I am sure, think my taste very deficient when I tell you that I do not admire
the finest pictures of Raphael, Titian, Guido, and Paul Veronese, so much as I do those of
Rubens, Vandyck, & le Brun, nor the landscapes of Claude and Poussin so much as Vernet's. Rembrandt,
Gerard Dow & his pupils Mieris and Metsu please me more than any other artists. In the whole
Collection they have but one of Salvator's, but that one, I think, is preferable to all Raphael's.
I have not yet seen statues enough to be judge of their beauties. The Apollo of Belvidere &
the celebrated Laocoon lose, therefore, much of their Excellence when seen by me. There is
still a fine Collection in the Palace of Versailles, but the view of that once Royal Palace
excites the most melancholy ideas. The furniture was all sold by auction, & nothing is left
but the walls and their pictures. The Gardens are much neglected, & will soon, unless the Consul
again makes it a royal residence, be quite ruined. You have, I daresay, often heard that the
Morals & Society of Paris were very bad; indeed, you have heard nothing but the truth. As for
the men, they are the dirtiest set of fellows I ever saw, and most of them, especially the
Officers, very unlike Gentlemen. The dress of the women, with few exceptions, is highly indecent;
in London, even in Drury Lane, I have seen few near so bad. Before I left England, I had heard,
but never believed, that some Ladies paraded the streets in men's Clothes. It is singular that
in the first genteel-looking person I spoke to in Paris to ask my way, I was answered by what
I then perceived a lady in Breeches & boots, since when I have seen several at the Theatres,
at the Frascati & fashionable lounges of the evening, & in the Streets and public walks! I
have not heard from you since I left England. Excepting the letter which was forwarded from
Grosvenor Place. I hope to hear at Geneva, where I shall go as soon as the great Consul will
permit me by shewing himself. The Country is in the finest state possible, and their weather
most favourable. They have had a scarcity of corn lately, but the approaching Harvest will
most assuredly remove that. Adieu; I hope Mrs. Stanley has already received a very trifling
present from me; I only sent it because it was classic wood. I mean the necklace made of Milton's
mulberry-tree. I brought the wood from Christ's College Garden, in Cambridge, where Milton
himself planted it.

Believe me,

Yours sincerely,

EDWD. STANLEY.

From Edward Stanley to his Father and Mother.

LYONS, July 20, 1802.

I shall not write you a very long letter as I intend to send you a more particular account
of myself from Geneva, for which place we propose setting out to-morrow, not by the Diligence,
but by the Vetturino, a mode of travelling which, of course, you are well acquainted with,
being the usual and almost only method practised throughout Italy unless a person has his own
carriage. I am to pay £3 10s. for ourselves and Suite, but not including bed and provisions.
South of the Alps these are agreed for.

After every endeavour to see Buonaparte had proved vain, on the 6th of July we quitted Paris
in a Cabriolet. All this night, and especially the next day, we thought we should be broiled
to death; the thermometer was at 95 the noon of July 7th; as you relish that, you may have
some idea of the Luxury you would have enjoyed with us.

We arrived at Troyes on the evening of the 7th, an old town in Champagne. People civil and
excellent Living, as the Landlord was a ci-devant Head cook to a convent of Benedictines, but
Hussey and Charles were almost devoured in the Night by our old enemies the Bugs. Hussey was
obliged to change his room and sleep all next day. I escaped without the least visit, and I
am persuaded that if a famine wasted the Bugs of the whole Earth, they would sooner perish
than touch me.

We left Troyes early on the morning of the 9th, arrived at Chatillon at four, and stayed there
all night, for the Diligences do not travel so fast as in England. We left it at four the next
morning, Hussey, as usual smarting, and I very little refreshed by sleep, as owing to a Compound
of Ducks and Chickens who kept up a constant chorus within five yards of my bed, a sad noise
in the kitchen from which I was barely separated, Dogs barking, Waggon Bells ringing, &c.,
I could scarcely close my eyes.

At Dijon, beautiful Dijon, we arrived on the Evening of the 10th. Had I known it had been so
sweet a Town I should have stayed longer, but we had taken our places to Châlons and were obliged
to pass on. You, I believe, staid some time there, but, alas! how different now! The Army of
rescue was encamped for some time in its neighbourhood, and the many respectable families who
lived in or near it rendered it a sad prey to the hand of Robespierre. Its Churches and Convents
are in a deplorable state, even as those of this still more unfortunate Town. The best Houses
are shut up, and its finest Buildings are occupied by the Military. We left on the morning
of the 11th, travelled safely (except a slight breakdown at our journey's end) to Châlons sur
Saône, and on the 11th went by the water-diligence to Macon, where we stopped to sleep. We
arrived at dusk, and as we were in a dark staircase exploring our way and speaking English,
we heard a voice say, "This way, Sir; here is the supper." We were quite rejoiced to hear an
English voice, particularly in such a place.

We soon met the speaker, and passed a most pleasant Hour with him. He proved to be a Passenger
like ourselves in the Diligence from Lyons which met ours here at the Common resting-place.
He was a Surgeon of the Staff, returning from Egypt, by name Shute. We all three talked together,
and as loud as we could; the Company, I believe, thought us strange Beings. We told him what
we could of England in a short time, he of the South, and we exchanged every Species of information,
and were sorry when it was necessary to part.

We arrived at Lyons on the 14th, the Day of the Grand Fête. We saw the Town Hall illuminated,
and a Review on the melancholy Plains of Buttereaux, the common Tomb of so many Lyonnese. Here
we have remained since, but shall probably be at Geneva on the 23rd. I lodge at the Hotel de
Parc looking into the Place de Ferreant.

The Landlady, to my great surprise, spoke to me in English very fluently. She is also a very
excellent Spaniard. She has seen better days, her husband having been a Merchant, but the Revolution
destroyed him. She was Prisoner for some time at Liverpool, taken by a Privateer belonging
to Tarleton and Rigge, who, I am sorry to say, did not behave quite so handsomely as they should,
the private property not having been restored.

Of all the Towns I have seen this has suffered most. All the Châteaux and Villas in its most
beautiful Environs are shut up. The fine Square of St. Louis le Grand, then Belle Cour, now
Place Buonaparte, is knocked to pieces; the fine Statue is broken and removed, and nothing
left that could remind you of what it was.

I have been witness to a scene which, of course, my curiosity as a Traveller would not let
me pass over, but which I hope not to see again--an Execution on the Guillotine. Charles saw
a man suffer at Châlons; we did not know till it was over, but the Machine was still standing,
and the marks of the Execution very recent. On looking out of my window the morning after our
arrival here, I saw the dreadful Instrument in the Place de Ferreant, and on inquiry found
that five men were to be beheaded in the morning and two in the evening. They deserved their
fate; they had robbed some Farmhouses and committed some cruelties. In England, however, they
would probably have escaped, as the evidence was chiefly presumptive. They were brought to
the Scaffold from the Prison, tied each with his arms behind him and again to each other; they
were attended by a Priest, not, however, in black, and a party of soldiers. The time of execution
of the whole five did not exceed five minutes. Of all situations in the world, I can conceive
of none half so terrible as that of the last Prisoner. He saw his companions ascend one after
another, heard each fatal blow, and saw each Body thrown aside to make room for him. I shall
never forget his countenance when he stretched out his neck on the fatal board. He shut his
eyes on looking down where the heads of his companions had fallen, and instantly his face turned
from ghastly paleness to a deep red, and the wire was touched and he was no more. Of all Deaths
it is far the most easy; not a convulsive struggle could be perceived after the blow. The sight
is horrid in the extreme, though not awful, as no ceremony is used to make it so. Those who
have daily seen 200 suffer without the least ceremony or trial get hardened to the sight.

The mode of Execution in England is not so speedy certainly nor so horrid, but it is conducted
with a degree of Solemnity that must impress the mind most forcibly. I did not see the two
who suffered in the evening, the morning's business was quite enough to satisfy my curiosity.

The next Morning I saw a punishment a degree less shocking, though I think the Prisoner's fate
was little better than those of the day before. He was seated on a Scaffold in the same place
for Public View, there to remain for six hours and then to be imprisoned in irons for 18 years,
a Term (as he is 41) I think he will not survive.

What with the immediate effects of the Siege and events that followed, the Town has suffered
so much in its Buildings and inhabitants, that I think it will never recover. The Manufactories
of silk are just beginning to shoot up by slow degrees. Formerly they afforded employment to
40,000 men, now not above half that number can be found, and they cannot earn so much. Were
I a Lyonese I should wish to plant the plains of Buttereaux with cypress-trees and close them
in with rails. The Place had been a scene of too much horror to remain open for Public amusement.
The fine Hôpital de la Charité, against which the besiegers directed their heaviest cannon
in spite of the Black ensign, which it is customary to hoist over buildings of that nature
during a Siege, is much damaged, though scarcely so much as I should have expected. The Romantic
Castle of the Pierre Suisse is no longer to be found, it was destroyed early in the troubles
together with most of the Roman Antiquities round Lyons. I yesterday dined with two more Englishmen
at the Table d'hôte; they were from the South; one, from his conversation a Navy officer, had
been absent seven years, and had been in the Garrison of Porte Ferrajo in the Isle of Elba,
the other an Egyptian Hero. There is also a Colonel from the same place whose name I know not.

I heard it was an easy thing to be introduced to the Pope,[5] if letters are to be had for
our Minister, whose name is Fagan, or something like it. Now, as I may if I can get an opportunity
when at Geneva to pay a visit to Rome and Florence previous to passing the Pyrenees, I should
like a letter to this Mr. Fagan, if one can be got. As Buonaparte's Pope is not, I believe,
so particular as the Hero himself with regard to introductions, I may perhaps be presented
to him. I look forward with inexpressible pleasure to my arrival at Geneva, to find myself
amongst old friends and to meet with, I hope, an immense collection of letters.

The Vineyards promise to be very abundant; of course we tasted some of the best when in Burgundy
and Champagne. What a country that is! The corn to the East of Paris is not so promising as
that in Normandy. The frosts which we felt in May have extended even more to the South than
to this Town. The apple-trees of Normandy have suffered most, and the vines in the Northern
parts of France have also been damaged.... I shall go from Geneva to Genoa, and there hold
a council of war.

GENEVA.

...Between Lyons and Geneva we supped with the Passengers of a Vetturino. Two of these were
Officers in the French Service, one of them a Swiss, the other a Frenchman. The conversation
soon fell upon Politics, in which I did not choose to join, but was sufficiently entertained
in hearing the Discourse. Both agreed in abominating the present state of Affairs. The Swiss
hated the Consul, because he destroyed his Country, the other because he was too like a King.
Both were Philosophers, and each declared himself to be a Moralist. The Frenchman was by far
the most vehement of the two, and the Swiss seemed to take much pleasure in leading him on.
His philosophy seemed to be drawn from a source equally pure with his Morality; assuming for
his Motto his first and favourite Maxim, "que tous les hommes sont égaux par les lois de la
Nature," &c., he thought himself justified in wishing Buonaparte (I was going to say) at the
Devil (but I soon found out that the existence of that Gentleman was a matter of great doubt
with the Philosopher) for daring to call himself the Head of the French Republic. His hatred
of Power was only equalled by his aversion to the English, whom he seemed to abhor from the
bottom of his heart, so much so, that when I attempted to defend the First Consul, he dashed
out with a Torrent of abuse, and ended by saying, "Et enfin c'est lui qui a fait la paix avec
l'Angleterre."

I was for some time in doubt what part of the Revolution he preferred, but by defending Robespierre,
he soon gave me an Idea of his Love of Liberty, Morality, Equality, and so forth. I was sorry
he retired so soon after Supper, as I never was more entertained in my life in so short a time
as with this little Fellow, as singular in his Figure and Dress as in his Manner, and he contrived
to be always eating as well as talking.

Edward Stanley to his brother J, T. Stanley.

Argonauta, OFF HYÈRES, Sept. 29, 1802.

MY DEAR BROTHER,--Before I left Geneva I firmly intended writing to you, but as I left it unexpectedly
and sooner than I intended I had not time, but this, and all my adventures till I left it,
I hope you have already heard, as I wrote two letters, one to my Father, the other to my Mother
before I quitted Geneva. You will no doubt be Surprised, and perhaps envy my present situation.
Where do you think I am? Why, truly, writing on a cot between two 24-pounders in a Spanish
84. You will wonder, I am sure, at seeing the date of this letter, and perhaps wish to know
by what good fortune I found a berth in a Spanish man-of-war, an Event which I little expected
when I wrote last. I shall begin my story from Geneva, and you shall hear my adventures to
the present moment. We left Geneva in a Vetturino for Turin, a Journey which took up 8 days
longer than it naturally should have done, but our Coachman was taken ill, & we were on his
account obliged to travel slowly. But I was not impatient, as you will know the Scenery is
beautiful; we crossed Mount Cenis, which, after St. Bernard's, cannot be called a difficult
pass. At Turin we stayed 3 days. It is now a melancholy Town, without commerce, & decreasing
daily in population. The celebrated Jourdan[6] is the ruler of the place, & with his wife lives
in the King's Palace. From Turin we went to Genoa, passing through Country not equal in Scenery,
but infinitely more interesting than that between Geneva & Turin, every step almost having
been the scene of battle, and every Town the Object of a siege. But the most interesting spot
of all was the plain of Marengo, near Alessandria. As we travelled in the Diligence I had not
so good an opportunity of viewing it as I should have had in a Vetturino, but we stopped a
short time to see the monument which is raised to commemorate the victory; it is erected near
2 remarkable spots, one where Desaix[7] fell, the other the House from which Buonaparte wrote
an account of the event to the Directory.

We passed also thro' Novi, every House in which is marked by Shot; that unfortunate Town has
been three times pillaged during the war. We arrived at Genoa on the 10th of Septr., in my
opinion the most magnificent Town for its size I ever saw. The Palaces are beyond conception
beautiful, or rather were, for the French Troops are not at this moment admitted within the
Gates; they are quartered in the Suburb in great numbers. As for the new Government, it is
easily seen who is at the head of it. There is a Doge, to be sure, but his orders come all
from Paris. While we were waiting there expecting a ship to sail to Barcelona, the Medusa,
English Frigate, came in, and amongst its passengers who came with her we found a Cambridge
acquaintance, who advised us to go without delay to Leghorn as the Spanish Squadron was waiting
there for the King of Etruria[8] in order to carry him to Barcelona. Fortunately the next day
an English Brig was going, & in her we took our passages; we were fortunate enough to receive
a large packet of letters from England a few hours before she sailed, which had she sailed
at the time the Captain intended we should have missed. Will you let my sisters know that they
arrived safe? I am not without hopes of making some use of the interesting letters to Italy,
tho' I am now steering to the westward. After a good passage of two days we arrived at Leghorn
and found the Spaniards still there. As soon as I landed I delivered a letter to a Mr. Callyer,
a Liverpool Gentleman who is settled there, & by his means was introduced to the Admiral's
first Lieut., who promised to secure me a berth in some of the ships. In short, here I am in
a very fine ship, tho' a horrid sailer. I have now given you a short sketch of my tour till
arriving at Leghorn; I have only to say something of Leghorn and the Argonauta. The Town has
suffered very much by the war, supported nearly as it was by its Commerce with England. The
inhabitants saw with little pleasure a French army take possession of the place & drive away
the English. They still have a strong force in the town--upwards of 2,000--and its fortifications
have been dismantled. It is singular enough to see the French and Tuscan colours flying together
on the same staff. When we entered the port the Tuscan Ensign was becalmed & the French flag
was flying by itself. I was much grieved not to be able to visit Florence when so near it,
but as the Squadron was in daily expectation of sailing I did not venture to be absent for
4 days, which the Journey would have required. I was therefore obliged to content myself with
a view of Pisa, which I would not have missed on any account. The leaning Tower is a curiosity
in itself sufficient to induce a stranger to make a long journey to visit it. Here the King
of Etruria lived and was hourly expected to set out for Leghorn. But his health, as it was
believed, was in so precarious a State that it was sometimes reported that he would not go
at all. The Queen, indeed, was in a very critical state, and were it not that her children,
she being an Infanta of Spain, are entitled to a certain sum of money by no means small, provided
they were born in Spain, it would have been madness in her to have undertaken the voyage; indeed,
I think it highly probable that a young Prince will make his appearance ere we arrive at Barcelona.
After having spent a longer time than I liked at Leghorn, which has nothing curious to recommend
it, at length it was given out that on the 26th the K. would certainly arrive from Pisa and
embark as soon as possible. Accordingly at 6 o'Clock on that day all the houses were ornamented
in the Italian style by a display of different coloured Streamers, etc., from the windows,
& His Majesty entered the Town. Had I been a King I should have been not altogether pleased
with my reception. He appeared in the Balcony of the Grand Duke's Palace, no one cried, "Viva
Ludovico I!" He went to the Theatre the same Evening, which was illuminated on the occasion,
&, of course, much crowded. I do not think our opera could have boasted a finer display of
Diamonds than I saw that Evening in the Ladies' heads, but, be it remembered, that there are
7,000 Jews in Leghorn, not one of whom is poor; some are reported to be worth a million. Many
of the Italians are also very rich. Next day we were informed that it was necessary to repair
on board our ship, as the King was to go early on the 20th. The Naval Scene received an addition
on 26th by the arrival of 2 French frigates from Porto Ferrajo. They had carried a fresh garrison
there & landed 500 men of the former one at Leghorn; they marched immediately, as it was said,
to garrison Florence. On the 27th the Spaniards and French, the only ships of war in the roads,
saluted, were manned and dressed. At Eleven o'Clock of the 27th (after having again seen the
K. at the Opera) in the Launch of the Argonauta we left Leghorn & went on board, for the first
time in my life, to spend I hope many days in so large a ship. She was one of that unfortunate
Squadron which came forth from Cadiz to convey home Adl. Linois[9] & his prize the Hannibal,
after our unsuccessful attack in Algeciras bay. This Ship suffered little; she was then a better
sailer than she is now, or most probably she would not be at present in the Service of Spain.
Early on the morning of the 28th the Marines were on the deck. It blew fresh from the shore,
& it was doubted whether the K. would venture; at 8 o'Clock, however, the Royal barge was seen
coming out of the Mole. The Admiral's Ship, La Reyna Louisa, gave the signal & at the instant
Every Ship fired 3 royal salutes. The Effect was very beautiful; we were the nearest to the
Admiral, nearer the land were the 2 other Spanish frigates, & abreast of us the two French
Ships. They were all dressed, and as the King passed near them they were manned and three cheers
were given. The King's boat came first, then the Queen's. After them followed the Consuls of
the different Nations who were at Leghorn, & after them a boat from each of the Ships. There
were besides a great number of other boats & Ships sailing about. Soon after the King had arrived
on board the Reyna Louisa, of 120 guns, the Signal was made for preparing to Sail, & soon after
the Signal for Sailing. We all got under weigh, but as our Ship was a bad sailer we had the
mortification of seeing ourselves left far behind in a short time. We have had nothing but
light winds ever since, & for the last two days contrary, but I am not in the smallest degree
impatient to get to Barcelona. The Novelty of Scene, more especially as it is a naval one,
pleases me more than anything I have met with hitherto. We are, however, now (Oct. 3rd) looking
out for land. Cape Sebastian will be the point we shall first see in Spain, & I much fear that
to-morrow night I shall sleep in Barcelona. Of the Discipline of the Spanish Navy I cannot
say much, nor can I praise their cleanliness. I wish much to see a storm. How they manage then
I do not know, for when it blows hard the sailors will not go aloft; as for the officers or
Midshipmen, they never think of it. Indeed, the latter live exactly as well as the officers;
they mess with them, have as good berths, & are as familiar with them as they are with each
other; very different in every respect from the discipline in English Men of War. I shall write
another letter to my sisters by this post; as they are at Highlake you may exchange letters.
Soon I shall write to you again. I have to thank you for a very long letter which I received
at Geneva, chiefly relating to the proper judgement of paintings. I am not yet quite a convert,
but experience may improve me. In Spain I understand I shall see some very good ones by the
first masters. I fear much that my desire of visiting Spain will not be so keen as it was when
I have seen a very little of it. By all accounts, even from Spaniards themselves, travelling
is very inconvenient, & what is infinitely worse, very expensive; added to which the intolerable
Suspicion & care of the Government renders any stay there very unpleasant. In case I find myself
not at my ease there I shall, when at Gibraltar, take a passage back to Italy, for Rome & Naples
must be seen. Now I think of it I must mention one ship well known to you which I saw at Leghorn,
namely, the John of Leith. I accidentally saw her boat with the name written; you may be sure
I looked at her with no small pleasure.[10] When I sought for her next day she was gone. I
little thought when I last saw you to see a ship in which you had spent so much time, up the
Mediterranean. I am learning Spanish at present, & the progress I have made in it is not the
least pleasure I have received during my stay in the Argonauta. It is a language extremely
difficult to understand when spoken, but easy to read, & very fine. I can already understand
an easy book. If I can add Spanish & Italian, or some knowledge of those languages, to my stock,
I shall consider my time and money as well spent, independent of the Countries I shall have
seen. Before I close this letter, which you will receive long after its original date, I must
tell you I have been making a most interesting visit to the celebrated Lady of Mont Serrat,[11]
& was even permitted to kiss her hand, an honour which few, unless well recommended, enjoy.
I have not time to say so much of it as I could, I can only assure you that it fully answered
the expectations I had raised. The singular Scenery and the more singular Customs of its solitary
inhabitants, excepting the monks of the convent, who lead a most merry, sociable life, are
well worth the trouble of going some distance to visit. The formation of the mountain is also
very extraordinary. Entirely pudding stone, chiefly calcarious, some small parts of quartz,
red granite, & flint only to be found. I have preserved some pieces for your museum, which
I hope will arrive safe in England, as also the small collection of stones which I sent from
the Alps.

Yours sincerely, EDWD. STANLEY.

MALAGA, Jan., 1803.

MY DEAR FATHER,--To this place am I once more returned, after having made an excursion to the
far-famed city of Granada and still more renowned palace of the Alhambra. My last letter was
dated from Gibraltar on the 17th of Decr. We left the Rock in a Vile Tartan,[12] rendered still
less agreeable by belonging to Spaniards, who, at no time remarkable for cleanliness, were
not likely to exert themselves in that point in a small trading Vessel. We were crowded with
Passengers and empty Casks--both Equally in the Way; tho' the latter were not then noisy nor
Sick, I considered them as the least nuisance. Fortunately a strong W. Breeze soon carried
us from the Rock, and in one night we found ourselves close to the Mole of Malaga. We introduced
ourselves on landing to the English Consul Laird, to whose attentions we have been since much
indebted. On the 2nd day after our arrival we heard of a Muleteer who was on his return to
Granada, and with whom we agreed for 3 Mules. The distance is 18 leagues over the Mountains,
a Journey of 3 days; this is a Country wild as the Highlands of Scotland, and in parts, if
possible, more barren. The first night we slept at Vetey Malaga and the 2nd at Alhama, a Town
famous for its hot baths, which, thanks to the Moors--who built walls about them--the Spaniards
still enjoy. The accommodations in the Country are rather inferior to those of England, tho'
perhaps you may consider me so prejudiced in favour of my own, and therefore unjust in my accounts
of other Countries. This may be the Case, and I dare say a Muleteer would find infinite fault
with an English Inn, where accommodation may be found for the Rider as well as the Mule. On
entering one of these Ventas, or Inns, you find yourself in the Midst of Jack Asses and Mules,
the necks of which, being usually adorned with bells, produce a Music highly entertaining to
a traveller after a long day's Journey over these delightful roads. If you can force your way
through this Crowd of Musical Quadrupeds it is necessary that you should attempt to find out
the Landlord and petition for a room, which in general may be had, and if you are fortunate,
Mattrasses are laid on the floor. Eating, however, is always out of the question. It is absolutely
necessary to carry your own Stock and look for your self if a frying Pan can be found. If you
are very much tired and the Bugs, Mosquitos, Fleas, and other insects (sent into the World,
I believe, to torment Mankind) are also tired or satiated with sucking the Blood from the Travellers
the preceding night, you may chance to sleep till 3 o'clock in the Morning, when the Carriers
begin to load their beasts and prepare for the day's Journey. The pleasure of travelling is
also considerably diminished by the numbers of Crosses by the road side, which, being all stuck
up wherever a murder has been committed, are very unpleasant hints, and you are constantly
put in mind of your latter End by these confounded Monuments of Mortality. Fortunately, we
met with no Tromboners on the road, and hitherto we have saved the Country the Expence of Erecting
3 Crosses on our account. At last we arrived at Granada, the 3rd Town in Spain in Extent, being
surpassed only by Seville and Toledo. You will, I suppose, expect a long account of the Alhambra
and Romantic Gardens of the Generalife, a minute account of the curiosities in the City and
a long string of etceteras relative to the place. You must, however, remain in ignorance of
all these things till we meet, as at present I have neither time or inclination or paper sufficient
to repeat my adventures and observations: suffice it to say that on the whole I was much disappointed
both with the Alhambra and Granada, which are I cannot say lasting Monuments, for they are
falling fast to ruin. Of the Indolence and negligence of the people, you will scarcely believe
that so large a Town so near the sea, and situated in one of the finest vales in Spain, is
almost without Trade of any Sort--neither troubling itself with importations or exerting its
powers to provide Materials for Exportation. The Capt. Genl., however, is doing all he can
to restore it to its former dignity, and were he well seconded, Granada might again hope to
become one of the brightest ornaments of Spain. We returned by way of Loja and Antiquiera on
the 27th of Decr., and have been wind bound ever since, and likely to be for another Month--sure
never was a wind so obstinate as the present. We have here, I believe, quite formed a party
to visit another quarter of the Globe--a short trip to Africa is at present in agitation. A
Capt. Riddel from Gibraltar is one of the promoters, and if we can get to Gibraltar in any
decent time you may possibly in my next letter hear some account of the Good Mahometans at
Tangiers. We are but to make a short Stay and carry our Guns and dogs, as we are told the Country
is overrun with game of every sort. I have been most agreeably surprised in finding Malaga
a very pleasant place: we have met with more attention and seen more Company here than we ever
did in Barcelona. I am this Evening going to a Ball; unfortunately Fandangos are not fashionable
dances, but they have another called the Bolero, which in grace and Elegance stands unrivalled,
but would scarcely be admitted in the less licentious circles of our N. Climate. I shall take
lessons at Cadiz, and hope to become an adept in all those dances before I see you. If you
write within a fortnight--and of course you will after receiving this--you may still direct
to Cadiz. There has been a disturbance at Gibraltar, which was hatching when we were there,
and during our absence has Broken out. The many strange reports and particulars which have
reached Malaga--as I cannot vouch for their truth, I shall not Mention; the Grand point, however,
was to put his Royal H. on board of a Ship and send him back to England. There has been also
a desperate gale of Wind in the Straights--3 Portuguese Frigates, one with the loss of her
rudder, were blown in here. Some Vessels, I understand, were also lost at the Rock. I hope
our little brig, ye Corporation, with the young pointers has arrived in the Thames in spite
of the constant Gales and contrary Winds which we met with. I was sorry when the Wind became
fair and the Rock appeared ahead. My taste for salt Water is not at all diminished by Experience.
It is no doubt a strange one, but there is no accounting for these things, you know. Malaga
is warm enough--we have Green Peas and Asparagus every day. But we experienced very severe
Weather at Granada--Frost and Snow. The baths of the Alhambra were even covered with Ice an
Inch Thick. Adieu! this is Post Day.

Loves to all, Yours Sincerely, E. S.

GIBRALTAR, Jan. 22, 1803.

MY DEAR BROTHER,--I promised in my last, which I wrote when I was on the point of Setting out
on a tour to Granada, to write again and give some account of myself immediately on my return,
which was delayed on account of Sundry unfortunate Circumstances till the day before yesterday.
From Malaga I wrote to my Father, and you probably have heard that a fair wind carried us in
a vile vessel from this place to Malaga in one night, from whence, staying as Short a time
as possible, I set out on mules to Granada, distant a journey of three days. Till this time
I had never, excepting from hearsay, formed a true idea of the perfection to which travelling
in Spain could be carried, and yet, bad as it was, my return to land from Gibraltar has shown
that things might be a degree worse. Of the roads I can only say that most probably the Spaniards
are indebted to the Moors for first marking them out, and that the present race follow the
steps of their Ancestors, without troubling themselves with repairs or alterations of any description.
You may well then imagine the delicate State in which they now are. The Ventas or Inns are
in a State admirably corresponding to that of the high-roads. Provisions of every sort must
necessarily be carried unless the traveller wishes to fast; beds are occasionally, and indeed
I may say pretty generally, to be met with, such as they are; of course, bugs, fleas, Mosquitos,
and so forth must not be considered: they are plentifully diffused over the Country, and are
by no means confined to the inferior houses. With a Substitution for "Pallida Mors" the quotation
from Horace may with truth be applied, "aequo pulsant pede pauperum tabernae, Regum turres."
We passed thro' Alhama, near which are some very fine hot baths; the exact heat I could not
ascertain (as my thermometer was actually jolted to pieces tho' in its case in my pocket, travelling
from Turin to Genoa), but it is so great that I could scarcely keep my hand immersed for a
minute. In another Country they would be much frequented; as it is there are only some miserable
rooms for those who repair to them from necessity. On the evening of the 21st of December we
arrived at our Journey's end, and found, what we did not expect, a very tolerable Inn, though
as Granada is considered the third Town in Spain, those who are unacquainted with the country
might expect a better. I have so much to say that I cannot enter into a minute account of the
famous Palace of the Alhambra and other Curiosities in the Town, which is most beautifully
situated at the foot of a range of snow-covered Mountains at the extremity of what is said
to be the most luxuriant and delightful valley in Spain. I hope for the credit of the Inhabitants
that it is not so, as certainly it is in a disgraceful state of Cultivation, and were it not
for the Acqueducts erected by the Moors for the convenience of watering the land would, I fear,
in a few years be burnt up by the intense heat of summer. Its chief produce is Corn and oil;
silk and Wine are also cultivated, but the cold of winter sometimes injures the two latter.
The place is badly peopled and has no trade; it is chiefly supported by being the chief criminal
port of Spain, and the richest people are consequently the Lawyers. We saw the baths of Alhambra
in a state very different from what they usually are--actually frozen over and the Ice nearly
an Inch thick. I must say I was greatly disappointed with these famed remains of Moorish Magnificence,
tho' certainly when everything was kept in order, the fountains all playing, it must have been
very different; at present it is falling fast to ruin. The Governor is a man appointed by the
Prince of Peace,[13] and I believe would be unwilling to bestow any attention on anything in
the world but his own person, of which by all accounts he takes special care. We returned to
Malaga through Loja and Antequerra, both Moorish towns. At Malaga we were detained by Contrary
winds for three weeks; we might, indeed, have passed our time less advantageously at other
places, as we experienced much unexpected Civility & saw a great deal of Spanish Society. Wearied
at length with waiting for Winds, we determined to set out on our return to the Rock by land,
and accordingly hired 4 horses, and, under the most favourable auspices, left Malaga. We soon
found that even a Spanish sky could not be trusted; it began before we had completed half our
first day's journey to pour with rain. To return was impossible, as we had forded the first
river. In short, for three days we suffered Every Inconvenience which can be conceived, but
were still to meet with another disappointment, for on the Morning of the day in which we had
certainly calculated to arrive at Gibraltar we came to a River which was so much swelled that
the Boatman could not ferry us over. Nearly a hundred Muleteers and others were in the same
predicament, and we had the satisfaction of passing two most miserable days in a horrid Cortigo,
a house of accommodation a degree lower than a Venta. Our provisions were exhausted, and nothing
but bread and water were to be met with. Beds, of course, or a room of any sort were unobtainable.
Conceive to yourself a kitchen filled with smoke, without windows, in which were huddled together
about forty of the lowest order of Spaniards. As it poured with rain we could not stir out,
and as for staying within doors it was scarcely possible. If we tried to sleep we were instantly
covered with fleas and other insects equally partial to a residence on the human body. After
two days' penance, as the waters began to abate, we determined to cross the river in a small
boat and proceed on foot, which we did, and though we had to skip thro' 2 or 3 horrible streams
and wade thro' Mud and Marshes we performed the journey lightly, as anything was bearable after
the Cortigo del rio Zuariano. We passed through St. Roque and the Spanish lines and arrived
at Gibraltar on 20th, out of patience with the Spaniards and everything belonging to Spain.
Indeed, the Country is a disgrace to Europe. I wish indolence was the only vice of the inhabitants,
but added to laziness they are in general mean in their ideas, the women licentious in their
manners, and both sexes sanguinary to a degree scarcely credible. In Malaga particularly, few
nights pass without some murders. Those who have any regard for their safety must after dark
carry a sword and a lantern. You may form some idea of the people when there was one fellow
at Granada who had with his own hand committed no less than 22 Murders. Nothing could be more
gratifying to an Englishman than finding wherever he goes the manufactures of his own Country.
This in Spain is particularly the case; there is scarcely a single article of any description
which this people can make for themselves, consequently English goods are sure of meeting with
a quick sale. Perhaps it may be from prejudice, but certainly the idea I had of England before
I left it has been raised many degrees since I have had an opportunity of comparing it with
other countries. But now for some news respecting Gibraltar itself, which has during my absence
been a scene of Confusion, first by a dreadful gale of wind, and secondly from a much more
serious cause, a spirit of Mutiny in the Garrison. By the former 16 or 18 vessels were either
lost or driven on shore; by the latter some lives were sacrificed before tranquillity was restored,
and 3 men have since suffered death by the Verdict of a Court Martial. No doubt you will see
something of it in the papers; I cannot now enter into a detail as it would take some time.
The 2 Regts. principally, and I believe I may say only, concerned were the Royals, which is
the Duke's[14] own Regt., and the 25th; fortunately they did not act in concert. The other
Regts. of the Garrison, the 2nd, 8th, 23rd, and 54th, particularly the latter, behaved well.
The design was to seize the Duke and put him on board a ship and send him to England. He is
disliked on account of his great severity: whether he carries discipline to an unnecessary
degree military men know better than myself. Despatches have been sent to England, and I believe
some of the men concerned; the greatest anxiety prevails to know what answers or orders will
be returned. Of War and the rumours of War, tho' we it seems are nearer the scene of action
than those who dwell at home, little is known, and what little is seems to be more inclined
to peace than the English papers allow. It is here said, on what grounds I know not, that the
Spaniards have entirely ceded Minorca to their good neighbours the French. We have but a small
Naval force in the bay; and a few frigates and ships of war, one of the latter the Bittern,
I believe, arrived yesterday from England, but without any particular news. Many gun boats
were fitting out at Malaga, but I was informed they were only meant for "Guarda Costas," which
may or not be the truth. We sailed for Cadiz the moment an E. wind would give us leave; it
has now blown almost constantly a W. wind for three months, and the season has been remarkably
wet. I am impatient to get to Cadiz as I expect certainly to find letters, the receipt of which
from home is, I think, the greatest pleasure a traveller can experience. Of Louisa's[15] marriage
I have as yet not heard, tho' no doubt, however, it has taken place. How are my Nephews and
Nieces? I do indeed look forward with pleasure to my next visit to Alderley. Remember it is
now nearly 2 years since I have seen you; how many things have happened in the time to yours
most sincerely

EDWD. STANLEY.

Edward Stanley to his brother J. T. Stanley.

GIBRALTAR, January 16, 1803.

MY DEAR BROTHER,-- ... I shall pass over the greater part of the rest of your long letter &
proceed without further delay to talk of myself. The last time you heard from me I think was
soon after I arrived in Barcelona; what occurred during my stay there you have most probably
heard from my sisters, as I wrote to Highlake just before I left that place. I consider myself
as extremely fortunate in being at Barcelona during a time when I had a better opportunity
of seeing the Court of Spain and the different amusements of the Country than I could have
witnessed by a much longer residence even in Madrid itself. I was, however, unfortunately only
a Spectator; as no regular English Consul had arrived in Barcelona, I had no opportunity of
being introduced either at Court or in the first Circles. Another difficulty also was in my
way; unfortunately I was not in the Army & consequently had no uniform, without which or a
Court dress no person is considered as a Gentleman in this Country. I have repeatedly regretted
that before I left England I did not put my name down on some Military list, & under cover
of a red Coat procure an undisputed right to the title of Gentleman in Spain.

As for the people, both noble and vulgar, it requires but a very short residence amongst them
to be highly disgusted; few receive any thing which deserves the name of a regular Education,
& I have been told from, I believe, undoubted Authority, that a nobleman unable to write his
name, or even read his own pedigree, is by no means a difficult thing to meet with. The Government
is in such a State that ere long it must fall, I should think. The King is entirely under the
power of the Prince of Peace,[16] a man who from being a common Corps de Garde has risen by
degrees, & being naturally ambitious & extremely avaricious has gained a rank inferior only
to that of the King, & a fortune which makes him not only the richest man in Spain but probably
in Europe. He is disliked by every Class of people, & it is not, I believe, without good ground
that he is considered as little better than a tool of Buonaparte's.

The conduct of France to Spain in many particulars, which are too numerous now to mention,
shews in what a degraded state the latter is--how totally unable to act or even think for herself.
One instance I need only mention, tho' I do not vouch for the truth of it, further than as
being a report current in the Garrison. The French have kindly offered to send 4,000 troops
to Minorca in order to take care of it for yr good friends the Spaniards, and a Squadron is
fitting out at Toulon to carry them there. After your alarming account of the naval preparations
in the three kingdoms you will expect that I, who am here in the centre of everything, should
be able to tell you a great deal; you will, therefore, be surprised when you are informed that
yours is almost the only account of another war which I have heard of. A Strong Squadron, indeed,
of 6 line of Battle Ships some time ago sailed with sealed orders and went aloft, but where
is unknown. From Barcelona, as it was utterly impossible to get to Madrid on account of the
King having put an Embargo on every Conveyance, which is easily done as the Conveyances are
bad as the roads and difficult to meet with, as well as enormously dear, we determined to steer
for Gibraltar by Sea, and accordingly took passage on an English brig, which was to stop on
the Coast for fruit we took on board. The Voyage was uncommonly long, and we met with every
Species of weather, during which I had the pleasure of witnessing a very interesting Collection
of Storms, with all the concomitant circumstances such as Splitting Sails and Shipping Seas,
one of which did us considerable mischief, staving in all the starboard quarter boards, filling
and very nearly carrying away the long-boat, drowning our live Stock, and, of course, ducking
us all on deck most thoroughly. We stayed a week at Denia, a small but beautiful Town on the
south part of the K. of Valencia. We were fortunately put on shore here in the night of December
6th. I say fortunately, as in consequence of a very strong Levanter the Captn. was for some
hours in doubt whether he should not be under the necessity of running through the straits
and carrying us to England, which was very near happening. Italy I have quite given up for
the present. Rome and Naples I lament not to have seen, but you know that from Leghorn I turned
to the westward in Compliance with Hussey's wish, who was anxious to be near Lisbon. We have
some idea of going from this place thro' Malaga to Granada, and soon after we return proceed
to Cadiz, and after making some excursions from thence go on to Lisbon. Your letter which you
promised to send to Madrid will, I fear, never reach me, tho' I have still hopes of paying
that Capital a visit. At Lisbon I shall arrive, I should think, about March, and hope to be
in England about May, or perhaps sooner. At Lisbon I hope to find a letter from you; the direction
is Jos. Lyne & Co. I have been very unfortunate in not finding some friends in the Garrison,
the only officer to whom I had a letter whom I found here has been of little Service to us.
I have, however, made the best use of my time and have been over the greatest part of this
extraordinary Fortress, but shall leave the description of it, as well as of an infinity of
other things, till we meet, which shall be very soon after my arrival in England. I must send
this instantly or wait for the next Post day, so I shall conclude rather hastily. My best Love
to Mrs. S. and Believe me,

Yours sincerely, EDWD. STANLEY.

CHAPTER II

AFTER NAPOLEON'S FALL

News of the Emperor's fall--Foreign plans--Disquieting rumours--Madame de Staël--London in
an uproar--Emperors and Kings--Hero-worship at close quarters.

1814.

The sudden rupture of the Peace of Amiens in May, 1803, closed France to Englishmen, except
to the miserable eight or nine thousand who were in the country at the time, and were forcibly
detained there by orders of the First Consul. It was not until eleven years later, in April,
1814, when Napoleon had abdicated, and when the allies had triumphantly entered Paris and restored
Louis XVIII. to the throne of his fathers, that peaceful British travellers could cross the
frontier once more.

The busy parish life which had occupied Edward Stanley during the years which had elapsed since
his first visit to France had not made him less keen for travel than he had been in his college
days, and all his ardour was aroused by the news that there was to be an end to Napoleon's rule.

The excitement caused by the rumour of the capture of Paris and the deposition of the Emperor
may be guessed at by a letter received at Alderley from Lord Sheffield, father of Lady Maria
Stanley, in the spring of 1814.

Letter from Lord Sheffield.

PORTLAND PLACE, April 6, 1814.

...I am just come from the Secretary of State's Office. We are all gasping for further intelligence
from Paris, but none has arrived since Capt. Harris, a very intelligent young man who was despatched
in half an hour after the business was completed, but of course cannot answer half the questions
put to him. He came by Flanders, escorted part of the way by Cossacks, but was stopped nearly
a day on the road. Schwartzenberg completely out-generalled Buonaparte. An intercepted letter
of the latter gave him notice of an intended operation. He instantly decided on the measures
which brought on the capture of Paris. I suppose you know that King Joseph sent the Empress
and King of Rome previously to Rambouillet. It is supposed that Buonaparte has fallen back
to form a junction with some other troops. A friend of Marshal Beresford's[17] has just called
here who lately had a letter from the Marshal which says that he is quite sure that Soult has
not 15,000 men left, and that in sundry engagements and by desertion he has lost about 16,000
men. I have no letter from Sir Henry[18] or William Clinton[19] since I saw you, but I learn
at the War Office that the latter was, on the 20th of last month, within ten days' march of
the right wing of Lord Wellington's army.[20]

       *       *       *       *       *

Further news soon followed, and the authentic accounts of the Emperor's abdication at Fontainebleau
on April 11th, and of his banishment to Elba, made it certain that his power was broken.

The Rector of Alderley was eager to seize the chance of viewing the wreck of Napoleon's Empire
while the country was still ringing with rumours of battles and sieges, and he began to make
plans to do so almost as soon as the French ports were open.

His wife was as keen as himself, and it was at first suggested that Sir John and Lady Maria,
as well as Mrs. Edward Stanley, should join the expedition; but the difficulties of finding
accommodation, and the fears of the disturbed state of the country, made them abandon the idea,
to their great disappointment.

The following extracts from the correspondence of Lady Maria Stanley explain the reasons for
the journey being given up by herself and her sister-in-law.

They describe the feeling in England on the foreign situation, and also give a glimpse of the
wayward authoress, Madame de Staël, who was just then on her way back to France after a banishment
of ten years.

Lady Maria Stanley to her sister, Lady Louisa Clinton.

ALDERLEY PARK, April 30, 1814.

So the Parisian expedition is at an end for us, in convention, that is, for I think Edward
will brave all difficulties, and with Ed. Leycester, taking Holland first on his way, make
a fight for Paris if possible; but all who know anything on the subject represent the present
difficulties as so great, and the probable future ones so much greater, that Kitty (Mrs. Ed.
Stanley) has given up all thought of making the attempt this year.

Lodging at Paris is difficult to be had, and there are even serious apprehensions of a scarcity
of provisions there. Moreover, the wise ones would not be surprised if things were in a very
unsettled and, perhaps, turbulent state for some months. This is Miss Tunno's information,
confirmed by other accounts she has had from Paris.

Madame Moreau's[21] brother means to return to prepare for her reception and the mode of travelling,
and when all is arranged to come again to fetch her.

There seems every reason to think another year preferable for a trip, especially as I have
been making the same melancholy reflections as Cat. Fanshawe,[22] and feared there would not
be one clever or agreeable person left in London a Twelve-month hence; my only comfort is the
expectation that House rent will be very cheap, and that the said Cat. will be better disposed
to take up with second best company for want of perfection, and that we may have more of her
society.

...All you say of the French nobility and their feelings is very true; but if they return with
the sentiment that all the Senate who wish for a good constitution are "des coquins," which
I very much suspect, I shall consider the emigrants are the greatest "coquins" of the two sets.

Surely, all the very bad Republicans and terrorists are exterminated. I should like to see
a list of the Constituent Assembly, with an account of what has become of each. I have been
reading all the accounts we have of the Revolution from the beginning. When I begin I am as
fierce a Republican as ever, and think no struggle too much for the purpose of amending such
a government or such laws. By the time I come to /93, however, one begins to hesitate, but
I rejoice most heartily the old times are not restored, and hope Louis means to be sincere
and consistent with his good beginning.

I return the "Conte de Cely," which is very entertaining and interesting, as no doubt speaking
the sentiments of all the old nobility. I do not think France has seen the end of her troubles
entirely. It is impossible the Senate and the Emigrants can sit down quietly together, but
the former--the Marshals and the Generals--would be formidable if they had reason given them
to doubt the security of Louis' acceptation of the Constitution. If the Bourbons share the
sentiments of their nobles, will you not give me leave to think they are too soon restored?

Miss Tunno is very intimate with Mdme. Moreau and a cousin of hers. All her accounts have been
conformable with yours.

Lady Louisa Clinton to her sister, Lady Maria Stanley.

To-day I sat an hour with Cat. Fanshawe, and was highly amused by the account she gave of Mme.
de Staël bolting up to her while standing speaking to Lord Lansdowne and some others at Mrs.
Marcet's,[23] and saying, "I want to be acquainted with you. They say you have written a minuet.
I am not a judge of English poetry, but those who are told me it is very good. Is it printed?"
This intolerable impertinence, which, however, she probably meant for condescension, so utterly
overset Cat., that she could find not a word to say, and treated the overture so coldly that
nothing more came of it.

I exhort Cat. to recollect that the woman was so notorious for excessive ill-breeding, that
no particular affront was intended, and hoped she would not continue coy, as I long to hear
something of this Lioness from one who can judge.

Hitherto I have had no such luck. I hear the most exaggerated statements of the Baroness's
absurdities, or of the necessity of her being one of every literary party.

Letter from Miss Catherine Fanshawe, after meeting Lord Byron and Mme de Staël at Sir Humphry
and Lady Davy's.

Early Spring, 1814.

I have just stayed in London long enough to get a sight of the last imported lion,[24] Mme
de Staël; but it was worth twenty peeps through ordinary show-boxes, being the longest and
most entertaining dinner at which I ever in my life was present. The party being very small,
her conversation was for the benefit of all who had ears to hear, and even my imperfect organ
lost little of the discourse--happy if memory had served me with as much fidelity; for, had
the whole discourse been written without one syllable of correction, it would be difficult
to name a dialogue so full of eloquence and wit. Eloquence is a great word, but not too big
for her. She speaks as she writes; and upon this occasion she was inspired by indignation,
finding herself between two opposite spirits, who gave full play to all her energies. She was
astonished to hear that this pure and perfect constitution was in need of radical reform; that
the only safety for Ireland was to open wide the doors which had been locked and barred by
the glorious revolution; and that Great Britain, the bulwark of the World, the Rock which alone
had withstood the sweeping flood, the ebbs and flows of Democracy and Tyranny, was herself
feeble, disjointed, and almost on the eve of ruin. So, at least, it was represented by her
antagonist in argument, Childe Harold, whose sentiments, partly perhaps for the sake of argument,
grew deeper and darker in proportion to her enthusiasm.

The wit was his. He is a mixture of gloom and sarcasm, chastened, however, by good breeding,
and with a vein of original genius that makes some atonement for the unheroic and uncongenial
cast of his whole mind. It is a mind that never conveys the idea of sunshine. It is a dark
night upon which the lightning flashes. The conversation between these two and Sir Humphry
Davy,[25] at whose house they met, was so animated that Lady Davy[26] proposed coffee being
served in the eating-room; so we did not separate till eleven. Of course we had assembled rather
late. I should not say "assembled," for the party included no guests except Lord Byron and
myself in addition to the "Staël" quartette....

As foreigners have no idea that any opposition to Government is compatible with general obedience
and loyalty, their astonishment was unbounded. I, perhaps I only, completely relished all her
reasonings, and I thought her perfectly justified in replying to the pathetic mournings over
departed liberty, "Et vous comptez pour rien la liberté de dire tout cela, et même devant les
domestiques!" She concluded by heartily wishing us a little taste of real adversity to cure
us of our plethora of political health.

       *       *       *       *       *

In consequence of the difficulties and dangers anticipated in the above letters Edward Stanley
finally decided to take as his only travelling companion his young brother-in-law, Edward Leycester,
who was just leaving Cambridge for the Long Vacation.

Mrs. Stanley accompanied her husband and brother as far as London, in order to see the festivities
held in honour of the State visit of the Allied Sovereigns to England in June, on their way
from the Restoration ceremonies in France.

Her letters to her sister-in-law during this visit describe some of the actors in the great
events of the last few months and the excitement which pervaded London during their stay.

Mrs. Edward Stanley to Lady Maria Stanley.

LONDON, Friday, June 13, 1814.

Edward went for his passport the other day, and was told he must go to the Alien Office, being
taken for a Frenchman....

I forgot yesterday to beg Sir John would write Edward an introduction to Lord Clancarty,[27]
and anybody else he can think of at Paris or the Hague, and send them to him as soon as possible.

We have been Emperor[28] hunting all morning. No, first we went to Mass with Miss Cholmondeley,
and heard such music!

Then with her to the Panorama of Vittoria, and since then we have been parading St. James's
Street and Piccadilly. Oh! London for ever! Edward saw a whiskered man go into a shop, followed
him, and accosted him, and it was a man just arrived with despatches for the Crown Prince,
who was thankful to be shewn his way. There was a gentleman came up to talk to Miss Cholmondeley,
and he had been living in the house with Lucien Bonaparte.[29]

Then Edward was standing in Hatchard's shop, and he saw a strange bonnet in an open landau,
and there was the Duchess of Oldenburg[30] and her Bonnet, and her brother sitting by her in
a plain black coat, and he gave himself the toothache running after the carriage.

He saw, or fancied he saw, a great deal of character in the Duchess's countenance. I just missed
this, but afterwards joined Edward, and walked up and down St. James's Street, trusting to
Edward's eyes, rather than all the assurances we met with, that the Emperor was gone to Carlton
House, and were rewarded by a sight of him in a quarter of an hour, which had sufficed him
to change his dress and his equipage, and a very fine head he has. Such a sense of bustle and
animation as there is in that part of the town! You and Sir John may, and I daresay will, laugh
at all the amazing anxiety and importance attached to a glimpse of what is but a man after
all; but still the common principles of sympathy would force even Sir John's philosophy to
yield to the animating throng of people and carriages down St. James's Street, and follow their
example all the time he was abusing their folly.

June 13, 1814.

At half-past ten we started for the illuminations, and nearly made the tour of the whole town
from Park Lane to St. Paul's in the open barouche.

I cannot conceive a more beautiful scene than the India House; they had hung a quantity of
flags and colours of different sorts across the street; the flutings and capitals of the pillars,
and all the outlines of the buildings, marked out with lamps, so that it was much more like
a fairy palace and a fairy scene altogether than anything else.

The flags concealed the sky, and formed such a fine background to the brilliant light thrown
on all the groups of figures.

We did not get home till daylight. There was nothing the least good or entertaining in the
way of inscriptions and transparencies, except a "Hosanna to Jehovah, Britain, and Alexander."

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria Stanley.

LONDON, Wednesday, June, 1814.

Where did we go to be made fools of by the Emperor yesterday for four hours? We went with Miss
Tunno, got introduced to a gentleman's tailor in Parliament Street, and looked out of his window;
saw a shabby coach and six pass, full of queer heads, one of which was so like the prints of
Alexander, and bowed so like an Emperor, that I must and will maintain it to have been him
till I can receive positive proof that it was not. We saw, too, what they said was Blücher,
but we could hear or see nothing but that something was wrapped up in furs. However, Edward
was more fortunate, and came in for the real bows which the real Emperor made from the Pulteney
Hotel window, and you and Sir John may laugh as you please at all the trouble we have taken
to see--nothing.

Nevertheless, though I was well disposed to kiss the Emperor and Prince, and all who contributed
to disappoint the public expectation, it is certainly entertaining and enlivening to be in
expectation of meeting something strange every corner you turn and every different report you
hear. The Emperor has gone out this morning to look about at half-past nine, long before the
Prince Regent called.

They say he will sail in one of his own ships from Leith and may pass through Manchester. But
after all, it is something like what Craufurd described being in Paris, to be hearing yourself
in the midst of a great bustle with your eyes shut and unable to see what was going on round you.

We talk of Monday se'enight for our separation. There is so much to be seen if one could but
see it here, that Edward is in no hurry to be off....

At Lady Cork's the other night Blücher was expected. Loud Huzzas in the street at length announced
him, the crowd gathered round the door, and in walked Lady Caroline Lamb[31] in a foreign uniform!
This I had from no less authentic and accurate a source than Dr. Holland, who was an eye-witness.
She had been at the party in female attire, and seeing Lady Cork's anxiety to see the great
man, returned home and equipped herself to take in Lady C. and Co.

Monday, 8 a.m., June 16th.

Yesterday, after Church, we went to the Park. It was a beautiful day, and the Emperor may well
be astonished at the population, for such a crowd of people I could not have conceived, and
such an animated crowd. As the white plumes of the Emperor's guard danced among the trees,
the people all ran first to one side and then to the other; it was impossible to resist the
example, and we ran too, backwards and forwards over the same hundred yards, four times, and
were rewarded by seeing the Ranger of the Forest, Lord Sydney, who preceded the Royal party,
get a good tumble, horse and all. We saw Lord Castlereagh almost pulled off his horse by congratulations
and huzzahs as loud as the Emperor's, and a most entertaining walk we had.

We dined at Mr. Egerton's. Mr. Morritt[32] rather usurped the conversation after dinner, but
I was glad of him to save me from the history of each lady's adventures in search of the Emperor
or the illuminations. The Opera must have been a grand sight; it seems undoubted that the Emperor
and Prince Regent, and all in the Royal box, rose when the Princess of Wales came in and bowed
to her--it is supposed by previous arrangement. Lord Liverpool[33] declared that he would resign
unless something of the sort was done.

One man made forty guineas by opening his box door and allowing those in the lobbies to take
a peep for a guinea apiece. We made an attempt on Saturday to get into the pit, but it was
quite impossible. I would not for the world but have been here during the fever, although what
many people complain of is very true, that it spoils all conversation and society, and in another
day or two I shall be quite tired of the sound or sight of Emperors.

The merchants and bankers invited the Emperor to dinner; he said he had no objection if they
would promise him it should not exceed three-quarters of an hour, on which Sir William Curtis
lifted up his hands and exclaimed, "God bless me!"

He is tired to death with the long sittings he is obliged to undergo. The stories of him quite
bring one back to the "Arabian Nights," and they could not have chosen a more appropriate ballet
for him than "Le Calife Voleur."

If he stayed long enough, he might revolutionise the hours of London.

I was close to Blücher yesterday, but only saw his back, for I never thought of looking at
a man's face who had only a black coat on.

You may safely rest in your belief that I do not enjoy anything I see or hear without telling
it to you, and you are quite right in your conjecture as to what your feelings would be here.

I have thought and said a hundred times what a fever of impatience disappointment, and fatigue
you would be in.... You are also right in supposing that you know as much or more of the Emperor
than I do, for one has not the time nor the inclination to read what one has the chance of
seeing all the day long, and it is so entertaining that I feel it quite impossible to sit quiet
and content when you know what is going on.

One person meets another: "What are you here for?" "I don't know. What are you expecting to
see?" One says the Emperor is gone this way, and another that way, and of all the talking couples
or trios that pass you in the street, there are not two where the word "Emperor" or "King"
or "Blücher" is not in one, if not both mouths; and all a foxhound's sagacity is necessary
to scent him successfully, for he slips round by backways and in plain clothes.

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria Stanley.

LONDON, June 17, 1814.

We were in high luck on Sunday in getting a private interview with the Cossacks, through some
General of M.'s acquaintance. We saw their horses and the white one, 20 years old, which has
carried Platoff[34] through all his engagements. They are small horses with very thick legs.
The Cossacks themselves would not open the door of their room till luckily a gentleman who
could speak Russian came up, and then we were admitted.

There were four, one who had been thirty years in the service, with a long beard and answering
exactly my idea of a Cossack; the others, younger men with fine countenances and something
graceful and gentleman-like in their figure and manner. They were very happy to talk, and there
was great intelligence and animation in their eyes. No wonder they defy the weather with their
cloaks made of black sheepskin and lined with some very thick cloth which makes them quite
impenetrable to cold or wet. Their lances were 11 feet long, and they were dressed in blue
jacket and trousers confined round the waist with a leather belt, in which was a rest for the
lance. I envied their saddles, which have a sort of pommel behind and before, between which
is placed a cushion, on which they must sit most comfortably. We must see them on horseback
to have seen them, but we shall probably have an opportunity of seeing them again.

June 18, 1814.

On returning from Miss Fanshawe's we saw a royal carriage in George Street at Madame Moreau's,
and we waited to see the Emperor and the Duchess (of Oldenburg) get into the carriage. He was
in a plain blue coat; she without her curious bonnet, so that I had a good view of her face,
which I had the satisfaction of finding exactly what I wished to see. The extreme simplicity
of her dress--she had nothing but a plain white gown and plain straw hat, with no ornament
of any sort--and her very youthful appearance made me doubt whether it was really the Duchess;
but it was.

She is very little, and there is a strong expression of intelligence, vivacity, and youthful,
unsophisticated animation in her countenance. I fancied I could see so much of her character
in the brisk step with which she jumped into the carriage, and the unassuming, lively smile
with which she bowed to the people.

The Emperor looks like a gentleman--but a country gentleman, not like an Emperor. His head
is very like R. Heber's. The Duchess allowed herself to be pleased and to express her pleasure
at all the sights without the least restraint. She asks few questions, but those very pertinent.
She is impatient at being detained long over anything, but anxious to silence those who would
hence infer that she runs over everything superficially, without gaining or retaining real
knowledge.

At Woolwich she was asked if she would see the steam-engines. "No, she had seen them already,
and understood them perfectly." As they passed the open door she turned her head to look at
the machinery, and instantly exclaimed, "Oh, that is one of Maudesley's engines," her eye immediately
catching the peculiarity of the construction.

LONDON, June 22, 1814.

In the middle of Edward's sermon at St. George's to-day somebody in our pew whispered it round
that there was the King of Prussia[35] in the Gallery. I looked as directed, and fixed my eyes
on a melancholy, pensive, interesting face, exactly answering the descriptions of the King,
and immediately fell into a train of very satisfactory reflection and conjecture on the expression
of his physiognomy, for which twenty minutes afforded me ample time. The King was the only
one I had not seen, therefore this opportunity of studying his face so completely was particularly
valuable. When the prayer after the sermon was concluded, my informer said the King was gone,
when, to my utter disappointment, I beheld my Hero still standing in the Gallery, and discovered
I had pitched upon a wrong person, and wasted all my observations on a face that it did not
really signify whether it looked merry or sad, and entirely missed the sight of the real King,
who was in the next pew.

Nothing but his sending to offer Edward a Chaplaincy in Berlin for his excellent sermon can
possibly console me, except, indeed, the honour by itself of having preached before a King
of Prussia, which can never happen again in his life.

...The Duchess of Oldenburg took all the merchants by surprise the other day. They had no idea
she was coming to their dinner; she was the only lady, and she was rather a nuisance to them,
as they had provided a hundred musicians, who could not perform, as she cannot bear music.[36]
She was highly amused at the scene and with their "Hip! Hip!"

MONDAY, June 23, 1814.

At our dinner Mr. Tennant came in late, with many apologies, but really he had been hunting
the Emperor--waiting for him two hours at one place and two hours at another, and came away
at last without seeing him at all.

He said, in his dry way, that "Have you seen the Emperor?" has entirely superseded the use
of "How do you do?"

In the morning he had gone into a shop to buy some gloves, and whilst he was trying them on
the shopman suddenly exclaimed, "Blücher! Blücher!" cleared the counter at a leap, followed
by all the apprentices, and Mr. Tennant remained soberly amongst the gloves to make his own
selection, for he saw nothing more of his dealers.

Rooms are letting to-day in the City at 60 guineas a room, or a guinea a seat for the procession.
Tickets for places to see it from White's to be had at Hookham's for 80 guineas; 50 have been
refused.

Your letter revived me after five hours' walking and standing, and running after reviews, &c.

I did see the King of Prussia, to be sure, and the Prince, and the people climbing up the trees
like the grubs on the gooseberry bushes, and heard the feu de joie, whose crescendo and diminuendo
was very fine indeed, but altogether it was not worth the trouble of being tired and squeezed for.

At the reception at Sir Joseph Banks's house last night the most interesting object of the
evening was a sword come down from heaven on purpose for the Emperor! Let the Prince Regent
and his garters and his orders, and the merchants and the aldermen and everybody hide their
diminished heads! What are they and their gifts to the Philosophers'?

This is literally a sword made by Sowerby from the iron from some meteoric stones lately fallen--of
course in honour of the Emperor. There is an inscription on it something to this effect, but
not so neat as the subject demanded, and it is to be presented to Alexander--who does not deserve
it, by the by, for having entirely neglected Sir Joseph amongst all the great sights and great
men, which has rather mortified the poor old man.

LONDON, Monday night.

They are off, and in spite of all my friends' predictions to the contrary, I am here.

Edward went this morning to Portsmouth on his way to Havre, but the Havre packet is employed
in pleasuring people up and down to see the ships. Not a bed is to be had in the place, so
he has secured his berth in the packet, if he can find her, and get on board at night after
her morning's excursions.

Standing room is to be had in the streets for three shillings; seats are putting up in and
for two miles out of the town; all the laurels cut down to stick upon poles; in short, everybody
is madder there than in London.

Can the English ever be called cool and phlegmatic again? It is really a pity some metaphysicianising
philosopher is not here to observe, describe, and theorise on the extraordinary symptoms and
effects of enthusiasm, curiosity, insanity--I am sure I do not know what to call it--en masse.

One should have supposed that the great objects would have swallowed up the little ones. No
such thing! they have only made the appetite for them more ravenous.

The mob got hold of Lord Hill[37] in the Park at the review, and did literally pull his coat
and his belt to pieces. He snatched off his Order of the Bath, and gave it to Major Churchill,
who put it in the holster of his saddle, where he preserved it from the mob only by drawing
his sword and declaring he would cut any man's hand off who touched it. Some kissed his sword,
his boots, his spurs, or anything they could touch; they pulled hair out of his horse's tail,
and one butcher's boy who arrived at the happiness of shaking his hand, they chaired, exclaiming,
"This is the man who has shaken hands with Lord Hill!" At last they tore his sword off by breaking
the belt and then handed it round from one to another to be kissed.

My regret at not having been at White's is stronger than my desire to go was; it must have
been the most splendid and interesting sight one could ever hope to see.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Friday, June 27th, Edward Stanley and Edward Leycester finally set off and sailed from Portsmouth,
all gay with festivities in honour of the Allied Sovereigns.

Mrs. Stanley was left to spend the time of their absence at her father's house in Cheshire,
but the keen interest with which she would have shared the journey was not forgotten by her
husband.

The events of the tour were minutely chronicled in his letters to her, and not only in letters,
but in sketch books, filled to overflowing with every strange group and figure which met the
travellers on their way, through countries which had been, although so near, prohibited for
such a long time that they had almost the interest of unknown lands.

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria Stanley.

STOKE, July 4, 1814.

...That my curiosity may not catch cold in the too sudden transition from exercise to inaction,
the Shropshire and Cheshire Heroes have followed me down here, and I have had the pleasure
of seeing and hearing of the crowds going to touch (for that is the present fashion of seeing,
or, to speak philosophically, mode of perception) Lord Hill; and yesterday I met Lord Combermere
and his Bride at Alderley, and a worthy Hero he is for Cheshire!

A folio from Havre just arrived. I am very noble, very virtuous, and very disinterested--pray
assure me so, for nothing else can console me--it is too entertaining to send one extract.

CHAPTER III

UNDER THE BOURBON FLAG

French prisoners--Oldenburg bonnets--"Fugio ut Fulgor"--Soldiers of the Empire--Paris--A French
hotel--A walk through Paris--Portrait of Madame de Staël--An English ambassador--The Louvre--French
tragedy--The heights of Montmartre--Cossacks in the Champs Elysées--£900 for substitute--Napoleon's
legacies to his successor--A dinner at the English Embassy--Botany and mineralogy--Party at
Madame de Staëls--A debate in the Corps Législatif--Malmaison--Elbowing the marshals--St Cloud
and Trianon--The Catacombs.

Edward Stanley to his Wife.

LETTER I.

HAVRE, June 26, 1814.

We have passed the Rubicon--nous voilà en France, all new, interesting, and delightful. I know
not where or how to begin--the observations of an hour were I to paint in Miniature would fill
my sheet; however, you must not expect arrangement but read a sort of higgledy-piggledy journal
as things run through my head. I must pin them down like my Butterflies as they pass, or they
will be gone for ever.

At half-past four on Friday we sailed from Portsmouth, and saw the fleet in the highest beauty--amongst
them all while they were under sail tacking, &c.; the delay has not been lost time. I should
observe before I quit the subject of Portsmouth events, that the Emperor could not find time
to sail about for mere amusement two days, this he left to the P. R.[38] He (the Emperor) and
the Duchess of Oldenburg occupied themselves in visiting the Dockyards, Machinery, Haslar Hospital--in
short, everything worthy the notice of enlightened beings....

Our passengers were numerous, about 25 in a vessel of as many tons, with only six what they
called regular sleeping-places.... But I had no reason to complain, our party was in many respects
excellent--one, a jewel of no ordinary value, by name Mr. John Cross, of whom I must enquire
more. I have seldom met with a man of more general and at the same time deep information; he
seemed perfect in everything. Mineralogy, Antiquities, Chemistry, literature, human nature
were at his fingers' ends, and most gentlemanly manners into the bargain....

Amongst others we had three French officers, prisoners returning home. They had not met before
that evening, but had you heard their incomparable voices when they sang their trios, you would
have supposed they had practised together for years. Mr. John Cross alone surpassed them in
their art. These gentlemen were certainly not hostile to Bonaparte, but to gratify their musical
taste they stuck at nothing--"God save the King," "Rule Britannia," "The Downfall of Paris"
were chaunted in swift succession, and the following commencement of one of their songs will
show the popular opinion of Bonaparte's campaign in Russia:--

    "Quel est le Monarque qui peut
         Etre si fou
     Que d'aller à Moscou
     Pour perdre sa grande armée?"

A fair wind brought us in sight of the French coast early on Saturday. At 11 we were under
the headland of Havre, and at 12 anchored in the bay, and were in an instant surrounded by
chattering boatfuls who talked much but did nothing. On landing we were escorted to the Passport
Office and most civilly received there; the difference, indeed, between public offices in England
and France is quite glaring. Even the Custom house Officers apologised for keeping us waiting
for the form of searching; and tho' the Underlings condescended to take a Franc or two, the
Officer himself, when I offered money, turned away his head and hand and cried, "Ba, Ba, Non,
Non," with such apparent sincerity that I felt as if I had insulted him by offering it....

The whole process of getting our passports signed, &c., being over, we went to an Hotel. "Ici,
garçon, vite mettez Messieurs les Anglois à l'onzième," cried a landlady--and such a landlady!
and up we scampered to the 5th storey (there are more still above us) and to this said, "No
onzième." ...

We lost no time in the evening in looking about us; the town is situated about two miles up
the Seine on a sort of Peninsula surrounded with very regular and strong fortifications. Its
docks are incomparable, and Bonaparte would have added still more to their magnificence, but
now all is at a stand--the grass is quietly filling up spaces hitherto taken up by soldiers,
Workmen, shot and guns; the numberless merchant vessels in a state of decay proved sufficiently
the entire destruction of all trade; but what gave me particular satisfaction was the sight
of a flotilla of Praams, luggers, intended for the invasion of England, all reposing in a happy
progress to speedy putrefaction and decay. About a mile from the town on the hill is a beautiful
village called St. Michel, where the Havre citizens have country houses. The town itself is
as singular as heart can wish--indeed, I am firmly convinced that the difference between the
towns of the Earth and Moon is not greater than that between those of England and France. I
scarcely know how to describe it to you. Conceive to yourself a long street of immensely tall
houses from 5 to 8 Stories, huddled, for huddling is the only word which can convey my meaning,
and in truth their extraordinary height and narrow breadth seem rather the effect of compression
than design.... These houses are inhabited by various families of various occupations and tastes,
so that each Storey has its own peculiar character--here you see a smart Balcony with windows
to the ground, garnished above and below with the insignia of washing woman or taylor. They
are built of all materials, though I think chiefly of wood (like our old Cheshire houses) and
stucco; and, thanks to time and the filth and poverty of the people, their exterior assumes
a general tint of pleasing dirty picturesque. This said dirt may have its advantages as far
as the eye is concerned, but the nose is terribly assailed by the innumerable compounded Effluvias
which flow from every Alley-hole and corner. For the people and their dress! who shall venture
to describe the things I have seen in the shape of caps, hats and bonnets, cloaks and petticoats,
&c.? There I meet a group of Oldenburg Bonnets broader and more loaded with flowers, bunches,
bows, plumes than any we saw in London, and would you believe it I am already not merely getting
reconciled but absolutely an admirer of them.

Having passed the groups of bonnets I meet at the next moment a set of beings ycleped Poissardes,
caparisoned with coverings of all sorts, shapes, and sizes--here flaps a head decorated with
lappets like butterflies' wings--here nods a bower of cloth and pins tall and narrow as the
houses themselves, but I must not be too prolix on any one particular subject.

Sunday.

We have been to the great Church. It was full, very full, but the congregation nearly all female.

There is certainly something highly imposing and impressive in that general spirit of outward
devotion at least which pervades all ranks. Nothing can be finer than their music: we had a
sermon, too, and not a bad one. The order of things is somewhat reversed. In England we wear
white bands and black gown, here the preacher had black bands and white gown, and I fear the
eloquence of St. Paul would not prevent the smiles of my hearers in Alderley Church were I
to pop on my head in the middle of the discourse a little black cap of which I enclose an accurate
representation.

What shall I say of political feeling? I think they appear to think or care very little about
it; the military are certainly dissatisfied and the Innkeepers delighted, but further I know
not what to tell you; I am told, however, that the new proclamation for the more decent observance
of Sunday, by forcing the Shopkeepers to shut up their shops during Mass, is considered a great
grievance.....

LETTER II.

ROUEN, June 28, 1814.

Foolish people are those who say it is not worth while to cross the water for a week. For a
week! why, for an hour, for a minute, it would be worth the trouble--in a glance a torrent
of news, ideas, feelings, and conceptions are poured in which are valuable through life. We
staid at Havre till Monday morning, and though a Cantab friend of Edward's, on bundling into
his cabriolet, expressed his astonishment we would think of staying a day, when he had seen
more than enough of the filthy place in an hour, we amused ourselves very well till the moment
of departure....

At 4 on Monday we stepped into the cabriolet or front part of our diligence, on the panels
of which was written "Fugio ut Fulgor," and though appearances were certainly against anything
like compliance with this notice, the result was much nearer than I could have conceived. Five
horses were yoked to this unwieldy caravan--two to the pole, and three before, and on one of
these pole horses mounted a Driver without Stockings in Jack Boots, crack went an enormous
whip, and away galloped our 5 coursers. It is astonishing how they can be managed by such simple
means, yet so it was; we steered to a nicety sometimes in a trot, sometimes in a canter, sometimes
on a full gallop.

The time for changing horses by my watch was not more than one minute--before you knew one
stage was passed another was commenced; they gave us 5 minutes to eat our breakfast--an operation
something like that of ducks in a platter, the dish consisting of coffee and milk with rolls
sopped in it. The roads are incomparable--better than ours and nearly if not quite as good
as the Irish. The country from Havre to Rouen is rich in corn of every description--there is
nothing particular in the face of it, and yet you would, if awakened from a dream, at once
declare you were not in England; in the first place there are no hedges--the road was almost
one continuous avenue of apple-trees; the timber trees are not planted in hedgerows but in
little clumps or groves, sometimes but generally rather removed from the road, and it is amongst
these that the villages and cottages are concealed, for it is surprising how few in comparison
with England are seen. The trees are of two descriptions--either trimmed up to the very top
or cut off so as to form underwood. I did not observe one that could be called a branching
tree; the finest beech we saw looked like a pole with a tuft upon it. The cottages are mostly
of clay, generally speaking very clean, and coming nearer to what I should define a cottage
to be than ours in England.

You see no cows in the fields, they are all tethered by the road-side or other places, by which
a considerable quantity of grass must be saved, and each is attended by an old woman or child.
We passed through 2 or 3 small towns and entered Rouen 8 hours after quitting Havre, 57 miles.
Rouen, beautiful Rouen, we entered through such an avenue of noble trees, its spires, hills
and woods peeping forth, and the Seine winding up the country, wide as the Thames at Chelsea.

Such a gateway! I have made a sketch, but were I to work it up for a month it would still fall
far short and be an insult to the subject it attempts to represent. If Havre can strike the
eye of a stranger, what must not Rouen do? Every step teems with novelty and richness, Gothic
gateways, halls, and houses. What are our churches and cathedrals in England compared to the
noble specimens of Gothic architecture which here present themselves?... Rouen has scarcely
yet recovered from the dread they were in of the Cossacks, who were fully expected, and all
valuables secreted--not that they were absolutely without news from the capital: the diligence
had been stopped only once during the three days after the Allies entered Paris. Till then
they had proceeded comme à l'ordinaire, and the diligence in which we are to proceed to-night
left it when Shots were actually passing over the road during the battle of Montmartre--how
they could find passengers to quit it at such an interesting moment I cannot conceive; had
I been sure of being eaten up by a Horde of Cossacks, I could not have left the spot.

What an odd people the French are! they will not allow they were in ignorance of public affairs
before the entrance of the Allies. "Oh no, we had the Gazettes," they say, and I cannot find
that they considered these Gazettes as doubtful authorities. We have plenty of troops here--genuine
veterans horse and foot; I saw them out in line yesterday. The men were soldier-like looking
fellows enough, but one of our cavalry regiments would have trotted over their horses in a
minute without much ceremony; the army is certainly dissatisfied. Marmont is held in great
contempt; they will have it he betrayed Paris, and say it would be by no means prudent for
him to appear at the head of a line when there was any firing. The people may or may not like
their emancipation from tyranny, but their vanity--they call it glory--has been tarnished by
the surrender of Paris, and they declare on all hands that if Marmont had held out for a day
Bonaparte would have arrived, and in an instant settled the business by defeating the Allies.
In vain may you hint that he was inferior in point of numbers (to say anything of the skill
and merit of the Russians perhaps would not have been very prudent), and that he could not
have succeeded. A doubting shake of the head, significant shrug of the shoulders, and expressive
"Ba, Ba," explain well enough their opinions on the subject.

I cannot conceive a more grating badge to the officers than the white cockade--the fleur de
lys is now generally adopted in place of the N and other insignia of Bonaparte, but, excepting
from some begging boys, I have never heard the cry of "Vive Louis XVIII.!" and then it was
done, I shrewdly suspect, as an acceptable cry for the Anglois, and followed immediately by
"un pauvre petit liard, s'il vous plait, Mons." We went to the play last night; the house was
filthy beyond description, and the company execrable as far as dress went; few women, and those
in their morning dress and Oldenburg Bonnets--the men almost all officers, and a horrid-looking
set they were. I would give them credit for military talents; they all looked like chiefs of
banditti--swarthy visages, immense moustachios, vulgar, disgusting, dirty, and ill-bred in
their appearance.

From all I hear the account of the duels between these and the Russian officers at Paris were
perfectly correct.[39]

I am just come in from a stroll about the town. Among the most interesting circumstances that
occurred was the inspection of detachments of several regiments quartered there. I happened
to be close to the General when he addressed some Grenadiers de la Garde Impériale on the subject
of their dismissal, which it seems they wanted. They spoke to him without any respect, and
on his explaining the terms on which their dismissal could alone be had, they appeared by no
means satisfied, and when he went I heard one of them in talking to a party collected round
him say, "Eh bien, s'il ne veut pas nous congédier, nous passerons." A man standing by told
me a short time ago a regiment of Imperial Chasseurs when called upon to shout "Vive Louis
XVIII.!" at Boulogne, to a man, officers included, cried "Vive Napoleon!" and I feel very certain
that had the same thing been required to-day from the soldiers on the field, they would have
acted in the same manner, and that the spectators would have cried "Amen."

I heard abundance of curious remarks on the subject of the war, the peace, and the changes;
they will have it they were not conquered. "Oh no." "Paris ne fut jamais vaincue--elle s'est
soumise seulement!" I leave it to your English heads to define the difference between submission
and conquest.

Beef and mutton are 5d. per lb. here. Chickens 3s. the couple, though 24 per cent. was probably
added to me as an Englishman. Bread a 100 per cent. cheaper than in England--at least so I
was informed by an Englishman in the commercial line. Fish cheap as dirt at Havre, 3 John Dorys
for 6d.

From Havre to Rouen, 57 miles, cost us £1 6s. for both; from thence to Paris, 107 miles, £2;
our dinners, including wine, are about 4s. a head; breakfast 2s., beds 1s. 6d. each.

LETTER III.

PARIS, June 30th.

Here we arrived about an hour ago; for the last two miles the country was a perfect garden--cherries,
gooseberries, apple-trees, corn, vineyards, all chequered together in profusion; in other respects
nothing remarkable....

The first sight of Paris, or rather its situation, is about 10 miles off, when the heights
of Montmartre, on one side, and the dome of the Hôpital des Invalides on the other reminded
us of their trophies and disasters at the same time....

 in the Place de Vendôme--figure to
yourself a column perfect in proportions much resembling Nelson's in
Dublin, ornamented after the plan of Trajan's pillar--all of bronze, on
which the operations of the wars and victories in Germany are recorded.
Bonaparte's statue crowned it, but that was removed. The column itself,
however, will remain an eternal statue commemorating his deeds, and
though the Eagles and letter N are rapidly effacing from every quarter,
this must last till Paris shall be no more. From the top of this pillar
you of course have a magnificent view, and it must have been a choice
spot from whence to behold the fight of Montmartre. It will scarcely
interest you much to say much about the other public buildings, suffice
it to say that all the improvements are in the very best
style--magnificent to the last degree; they may be the works of a
Tyrant, but it was a Tyrant of taste, who had more sense than to spend
120,000 Louis in sky-rockets. His public buildings at least were for the
public good, and were ornaments to his capital.

But let us turn from inanimate to living objects; since I penned the last line I have been
sitting with Mme. de Staël.... By appointment we called at 12.[41] For a few moments we waited
in a gaudy drawing-room; the door then opened and an elderly form dressed à la jeunesse appeared;
she is not ugly; she is not vulgar (Edward begs to differ from this opinion, he thinks her
ugly beyond measure); her countenance is pleasing, but very different from anything my fancy
had formed; a pale complexion not far from that of a white Mulatto, if you will allow me to
make the bull; her eyebrows dark and her hair quite sable, dry and crisp like a negro's, though
not quite so curling. She scarcely gave me time to make my compliments in French before she
spoke in fluent English. I was not sorry she fought under British colors, for though she was
never at a loss, I knew I could express and defend myself better than had she spoken in French.
I hurried her as much as decency would permit from one subject to another, but I found politics
were uppermost in her thoughts.... She was equally averse to both parties--to the royal because
she said it was despotism; the Imperial because it was tyranny. "Is there," said I, "no happy
medium; are there none who can feel the advantages of liberty, and wish for a free constitution?"
"None," said she, "but myself and a few--some 12 or 15--we are nothing; not enough to make
a dinner party." I ventured to throw in a little flattery--I knew my ground--and remarked that
an opinion like hers, which had in some measure influenced Europe, was in itself an host; the
compliment was well received, and in truth I could offer it conscientiously to pay tribute
to her abilities.

On leaving Mme. de S. we paid another visit. From the greatest woman we went to see our greatest
man in Paris, Sir Charles Stuart,[42] to whom Lord Sheffield had given me a letter of introduction.
This had been sent the day before, and of course I now went to see the effect. After waiting
in the Anti-chamber of the great man for about half an hour, and seeing divers and sundry faces
pass and repass in review, we were summoned to an audience. We found a little, vulgar-looking
man, whom I should have mistaken for the great man's butler if he had not first given a hint
that he was bonâ fide the great man himself. I think the conversation was nearly thus: E. S.:
"Pray, Sir, are the Marshalls in Paris, and if so is it easy to see them?" Sir C. S.: "Upon
my soul I don't know." E. S.: "Pray, Sir, is there anything interesting to a stranger like
myself likely to take place in the course of the next fortnight?" Sir C. S.: "Upon my soul
I don't know." E. S.: "Pray, Sir, is the interior of the Thuilleries worth seeing, and could
we easily see the apartments?" Sir C. S.: "Upon my soul I don't know." This, I do assure you,
was the cream of the conversation. Now certainly a great man ought to look wise and say he
does not know so and so, when in fact he knows all about it, but somehow or other I could not
help thinking that Sir Charles spoke the truth, for if I may draw any inference from Physiognomy,
I never saw a face upon which the character of "upon my soul I don't know" was more visibly
stamped. I left my card, bowed, and retired....

I next turned my eyes to the Louvre.[43] What are the exhibitions of London, modern or ancient?
What are Lord Stafford's, Grosvenor's, Angerstein's, &c., in comparison with this unrivalled
gallery? Words cannot describe the coup d'œil. Figure to yourself a magnificent room so long
that you would be unable to recognise a person at the other extremity, so long that the perspective
lines terminate in a point, covered with the finest works of art all classed and numbered so
as to afford the utmost facility of inspection; no questions asked on entering, no money to
be given to bowing porters or butlers, no cards of admission procured by interest--all open
to the public view, unfettered and unshackled; the liberality of the exhibition is increased
by the appearance of Easels and desks occupied by artists who copy at leisure. It is noble
and grand beyond imagination. In the Halls below are the Statues, arranged with equal taste,
though, as they are in different rooms, the general effect is not so striking. I recognised
all my old friends, the Venus de Medicis was alone new to me. She is sadly mutilated, but is
still the admiration of all persons of sound judgment and orthodox taste, amongst whom, I regret
to say, I deserve not to be classed, as I really cannot enter into the merits of statues, and
the difference between a perfect and moderate specimen of sculpture appears to me infinitely
less than between good and moderate paintings....

After dining at a Restaurateur's, who gave us a most excellent dinner, wine, &c., for about
3s. a head, we went to the Théâtre Français, or the Drury Lane of Paris. We expected to see
Talma[44] in Mérope, but his part was taken by one who is equally famous, Dufour, and the female
part by Mme. Roncour. She was intolerable, though apparently a great favourite; he tolerable,
and that is all I can say. In truth, French tragedy is little to my taste.... The best part
of the play was the opportunity it afforded "les bonnes gens" de Paris to show their loyalty,
and much gratified I was in hearing some enthusiastic applause of certain passages as they
applied to the return of their ancient sovereign. There is something very sombre and vulgar
in the French playhouses with the men's boots and the women's bonnets. Could I in an instant
waft you from the solitudes of Stoke to the clatter of Paris, how you would stare to see the
boxes filled with persons almost extinguished in their enormous casques of straw and flowers.
I have seen several bearing, in addition to other ornaments, a bunch of 5 or 6 lilies as large
as life....

LETTER IV.

PARIS, July 8, 1814.

You will take for granted we have seen all the exhibitions, libraries, &c., of Paris; they
will wait for more ample description--a glance on one or two will be sufficient.

L'Hôpital des Invalides was, you know, famous for its magnificent dome, which was decorated
with flags, standards, and trophies of the victorious arms of France; impatient to shew them
to Edward, I hastened thither, but alas, not a pennant remains. On the near approach of the
Allies they were taken down, and some say burnt, others buried, others removed to a distance.
I asked one of the Invalides whether the Allies had not got possession of a few. With great
indignation and animation he exclaimed, "Je suis aussi sûr que je suis de mon existence qu'il
n'out pas pris un seul même."

On Sunday last, after having hunted everywhere for a Protestant church, one of which we found
at last by some blunder quite empty, we went with our landlord, a serjeant in the national
guard, to inspect the heights of Chaumont, Belleville, and Mt. Martre.... We ascended from
the town for about 3 miles to a sort of large rambling village, in situation and circumstances
somewhat like Highgate. This was Belleville, whose heights run on receding from Paris a considerable
distance, but terminate rather abruptly in the direction of Mont Martre, from which they are
separated by a low, swampy valley containing all the dead horses, filth, and exuvious putrefactions
of Paris.... Immediately below, extending for many miles, including St. Denis and other villages,
are fine plains; upon which plains about 3 in the morning the Russians deployed, and the Spectacle
must have been interesting beyond measure.... On the heights and towards the base were assembled
part of Marmont's[45] army with their field pieces and some few heavier guns; there, too, were
stationed the greater part of the students of l'Ecole Polytechnique, corresponding to our Woolwich
cadets. Nothing could surpass their conduct when their brethren in arms fled; they clung to
their guns and were nearly all annihilated. I was assured that their bodies were found in masses
on the spot where they were originally stationed; their number was about 300.... I met a few
in the course of the day who were, like ourselves, contemplating the field of battle, and who
spoke like the rest of their countrymen of the baseness of Marmont and treachery of the day.
The cannonade must have been pretty sharp while it lasted, as about 5,000 Russians perished
before they got possession of the heights--though the actual operation of storming did not
occupy half an hour--but their lines were quite open to a severe fire of grape from eminences
commanding every inch of the plain. Whilst this work was going on at Belleville, another Russian
column performed a similar service at Mt. Martre, which is nearer Paris--in fact, immediately
above the Barriers.... Thither our guide next conducted us, and pointed out the particular
spots where the assault and carnage were most desperate. A number of Parties were walking about
and all talking of the battle or Bonaparte.... Till this day I had never heard him openly and
honestly avowed, but here I had several opportunities of incorporating myself in groups in
which his name was bandied about with every invective which French hatred and fluency could
invent. Their tongues, like Baron Munchausen's horn, seemed to run with an accumulated rapidity
from the long embargo laid upon them. "Sacré gueux, bête, voleur," &c., were the current coin
in which they repaid his despotism, and I was happy to find that his conduct in Spain was by
all held in utter detestation and considered as the ground work of his ruin.

I saw one party in such a state of bodily and mental agitation that I ran up expecting to see
a battle, but the multiplicity of hands, arms, and legs which were rising, falling, wheeling,
and kicking, were merely energetic additions to the general subject.... The National guard
were not (with few exceptions) actually engaged. To the amount of 36,000 they occupied the
towns and barriers, by all accounts guessing, or, as one intelligent conductor assured us,
very certain that they would not be called upon to fight much for the defence of Paris....
Indeed, from all I have been able to learn, and from all I have been able to see, it appears
pretty clear that no serious defence was intended--a little opposition was necessary for the
look of the thing. And although Marmont might have done more, I feel convinced that had he
exerted himself to the utmost, Paris must have perished.

The heights were defended in a very inadequate and unsoldierlike manner; not a single work
was thrown up before the guns, no entrenchments, no bastions, and yet with three days' notice
all this might have easily been done. The barriers all round Paris were, and still are, hemmed
round with Palisades with loop holes, each of which might have been demolished by half a dozen
rounds from a 6-pounder; the French, indeed, laugh at them and consider them as mere divertissements
of Bonaparte's, and feeble attempts to excite a spirit of defence amongst the people--a spirit
which, fortunately for Europe, was never excited. The lads of Paris had determined to take
their chance and not to do one atom more than they were called upon or compelled to do. These
wooden barriers are made of le bois de tremble (aspen), and the pun was that the fortifications
"tremblaient partout." You will like to hear something of Edgeworth's friend, St. Jean d'Angély;[46]
he came up to the barrier where our landlord (who had been formerly an imperial guardsman and
fought in the battle of Marengo) was posted; here he called loudly for some brandy, for which
he got laughed at by the whole line of guard; he then sallied forth and proceeded a short distance,
when his horse took fright, and as St. Jean was, as our landlord told us, "entiérement du même
avis avec son cheval," they both set off as fast as they could, and were in a few minutes far
beyond all danger, nor did they appear again amid the din of arms. The fate of Paris was decided
with a rapidity and sang-froid quite astonishing. By 5 o'clock in the Evening all was entirely
at an end, and the national guard and allies incorporated and doing the usual duty of the town.
They were, indeed, under arms a little longer than usual, and a few more sentries were placed
and the theatre not open that Evening, but that single evening was the only exception, and
the next day the Palais Royal was as brilliant and more cheerful than ever, with its motley
groups of visitors. The Cossacks were not quartered in the Palais Royal, they were in the Ch.
Elysées, the trees of which bear visible marks of their horses' teeth, but a good many came
in from curiosity and hung their horses in the open space of the Palais.... The Russian discipline
was most severe, and not an article was taken from any individual with impunity, immediate
death was the punishment. The field of battle bore few marks of the event--a few skeletons
of horses and rags of uniforms; the more surprising thing is that, notwithstanding all the
trampling of horse and foot on the plains below so late as the end of March, the corn has not
suffered in the slightest degree. I wish the Alderley crops were as good.

You have no idea of the severity of the conscription. That men can be attached to a being who
dragged them, with such violence to every feeling, from their homes would be astonishing, but
for the well-known force of the "selfish principle" which amalgamates their glory with his.
A friend of our landlord's paid at various times 18,000 fr., about £900; he thought himself
safe, but Bonaparte wanted a Volunteer guard of honour; he was told it would be prudent to
enroll himself, which in consideration of the great sums he had paid would be merely a nominal
business, and that he would never be called upon. He did put his name down; was called out
in a trice and shot in the next campaign. Our waiter at Rouen assured me his friends had bought
him off by giving in the first instance £25 for a substitute, with an annuity to the said substitute
of an equal sum--pretty well this, for a poor lad of about 16.

Thanks to our landlord and not to Sir Charles Stuart, we might have been introduced into the
Thuilleries, but came too late. We lost nothing, as after Mass the King marched through a beautiful
sort of Glass gallery facing the Thuilleries Gardens, and then came out into a Balcony to shew
himself to the crowd there assembled! he was received with universal and loud applause. "Vive
le Roi!" was heard as loud as heart could wish, hats, sticks and handkerchiefs were flying
in all directions. When he entered Paris, in one of the Barriers a sort of Archway was made
and so contrived that as the carriage passed under a crown fell upon it, a band at the same
time striking up "Où peut on être mieux que dans le sein de sa famille," which is, you know,
one of their favourite airs.

Poor man, he has enough to do, and will, I fear, experience a turbulent reign. Bonaparte has
left his troops 3 years in arrears, the treasury empty, two parties equally clamourous for
places and pensions, both of which must be satisfied. Their taxes are heavier than I thought
they were. Our landlord has an estate worth about 2,000 frcs., his father paid 200 fr. a year
for it, and he is now under the necessity of paying 1,200, having only a clear surplus of 800,
and the finances are at too low an ebb to allow of any immediate reduction in their taxes....

To take things in their course, I must now proceed to my dinner at Sir Charles Stuart's. I
was shewn into a room where I found three or four Englishmen gaping at one another. Before
many more had assembled, in came Sir C., and I believe, or rather I am willing to flatter myself,
he made a sort of half bow towards us, and then we stood and gaped again; a few more words
between him and one or two who were to go to Court the day after, but to me and some others
not a syllable of any description was uttered, and when some more English were shewn in who
were, I presume, as respectable as myself, his behaviour was quite boorish, he did not condescend
to look towards the door. These things went on till a throng of Spaniards with Stars and orders
came in; with these he appeared tolerably intimate, and also with three Englishmen who afterwards
appeared. We were about 24 in number, and all I had to do in the half-hour preceding dinner
was to look out for the most intelligent, gentleman-like-looking Englishman I could, to secure
a place by him....

You will ask who I met. I protest to you that I went and returned without being able to learn
more than that the secretary's name was Bidwell, and that one other person in company was a
Mr. Martin, who had been agent for prisoners; of the rest I knew nothing, not even of my neighbour;
birth, parentage, and education were alike involved in the cloud of diplomatic mystery which
seemed to impend heavily over this mansion, and when my neighbour asked me, or I asked him,
the names of any person present the answer was mutual--"I don't know." Sir Charles sat in the
centre with a gold-coated Don on each side of him, with whom he might have whispered, for though
I sat within two of his Excellency, I never heard the sound of his voice: however, my opinion
may not coincide with all that pass from Calais to Dover, as I heard one man remark to another
that his countenance was very pleasing, to which was added in reply, "and he is a very sensible
man." These things may be, but I never met with one more perfect in the art of concealing his
talents.

Now for the Jardin des Plantes and its lectures. This same Jardin is a large space appropriated
to Botanical pursuits, public walks, menageries, museums, &c. There you see Bears and Lions
and, in fact, the finest collection of Birds and Beasts alive, some in little paddocks, others
in clean and airy dens. But this is the least part of this delightful establishment; its museums
and cabinets are like the Louvre, the finest collection in the world. Everything is arranged
in such order that it is almost impossible to see it without feeling a love of science; here
the mineralogist, geologist, naturalist, entomologist may each pursue his favourite studies
unmolested. Here, as everywhere else, the utmost liberality is shewn to all, but to Englishmen
particularly, your country is your passport. Like the mysterious "Open Sesame" in the Arabian
nights, you have only to say, "Je suis Anglais" and you go in and out at pleasure. I have seen
Frenchmen begging in vain with ladies and officers of the party and turned away because they
had happened on the wrong day or hour, and then we, without solicitation, have been desired
to walk in. But all these museums and living animals, curious and interesting as they are,
are surpassed by the still greater liberality shewn in the daily lectures given by the members
of the Institute or Professors of the several sciences. I have attended Haiiy,[47] Duméril,[48]
l'Ettorel, du Mare, and others upon Mineralogy, Nat. Hist., and Entomology, and Haiiy, you
know, is the first mineralogist in Europe, and I never looked upon a more interesting being.
When he entered the lecture room, every one rose out of respect, and well they might. He is
80 years of age apparently, with a most heavenly patriarchal countenance and silver hair; his
teeth are gone, so that I could not understand a word he said, though, indeed, had he been
possessed of all the teeth in Christendom I apprehend I should not have been much wiser, as
he lectured on the angular forms of the Amphiboles. He looked like a man picked out of a crystal,
and when he dies he ought to be reincarnated and placed in his own museum.

Another Scene to which I found my way was equally interesting: I went to a lecture on Iconographic
drawing, or Science, as it was called, of representing natural subjects. In other words, when
I got there I found it was a professorship of drawing, everything connected with Nat. Hist.,
such as flowers, animals, insects; and the Professor lectures one day and practically instructs
on another. I happened to be present at one of the latter. Conceive my surprise at finding
myself in a large library filled with tables, drawing books, ladies and gentlemen all sketching
either from nature or excellent copies here. As it was not a public day except to those who
wished to attend for instruction, I ought not with propriety to have intruded, but "J'étais
Anglois" and every attention was paid. You would have given a little finger to have seen the
room; it was a hot summer's day, but there all was cool and fragrant; the windows opened on
the gardens, the tables were covered with groupes of flowers in vases; the company, about 40,
were seated up and down where ever they chose, each with a nice desk and drawing board--in
short, it was a scene which excited feelings of respect for a nation which thus patronised
everything which could add to the rational improvement of its members. Were France the seat
of religion and pure virtue it would be Utopia verified; but, alas! there are spots which stain
the picture and cast a balance decidedly in favour of England: we are rough, we are narrow-minded,
but he who travels is brought to confess and say "England! with all thy faults I love thee
still." ...

LETTER V.

PARIS, July 10th.

Madame de Staëls party formed a fine contrast to the gloom and ponderosity of Sir Charles Stuart's
dinner the day before. We went a quarter before nine, thinking, as it was the nominal hour,
it would be ill-bred to go too early, but the French are more punctual in these matters, for
we found the good people all assembled and Marmont[49] walked out not five minutes before we
walked in.

In his stead we had General Lafayette,[50] the cornerstone of the Revolution. He is a tall,
clumsy-made man, not much unlike Dr. Nightingale, tho' rather thinner. His countenance discovers
thought and sound judgment, but by no means quickness or brilliancy; his manners were quiet,
unassuming, and gentleman-like. He spoke little, and then said nothing particularly worth notice.

The next lion announced was a lioness, the celebrated Madame Récamier,[51] and though she is
not in her première jeunesse, I can easily conceive how she could once dazzle the world. It
would be too much to give her credit for superior talents, but her manners were very agreeable
tho' rather like all other belles of France who have fallen in my way, somewhat à la languissante.
But I am all this while forgetting the star of the evening, the Baroness herself. She sat in
a line with about six ladies, before whom were arranged as many gentlemen, all listening to
the oracular tongue of their political Sybil.

She was in high spirits because she had been warmed up by the decision of the court and commons
concerning the liberty of the press, which had received an effectual check by limiting all
liberty of speech and opinion to works containing not less than 480 pages, thus excluding the
papers and pamphlets. The moment we were announced, before she asked me how I did, she enquired
whether I had heard this notable decision, and then demanded what I thought of it. Of course,
I assured her how much I lamented the prospect of an inundation of dull, prolix books to which
France was thus inevitably exposed. This, as we spoke in English, she immediately translated
for the benefit of the company, adding "Ce Monsieur Anglois dit cela, et c'est bien vrai il
a raison," and then she laughed and seemed to enjoy the catalogue of stupid books which might
be anticipated.

I must confess the party was a little formidable; in England I should have said formal, but
there is something in French manners wholly foreign to any application of the word formal,
and really after exchanging a few remarks I was glad to be introduced to her son[52] and daughter,[53]
with both of whom I was much pleased. They are clever and agreeable. She is not above eighteen
or twenty, and if her complexion was good would be very pretty. She was not shy, beginning
conversation in a trice upon interesting subjects. She compared the English and French character,
in which she (and I presume it was a maternal opinion) would not allow an atom of merit to
the latter. On finding that I was a clergyman she immediately began upon Religion, talked of
Hodgson,[54] Andrews, Wilberforce,[55] and then in questioning me about the Methodists (about
whom she seemed to have heard much and entertained confused notions) we slid into mysticism,
which carried us, of course, into the third vol. of "Allemagne"; she spoke in raptures of the
mystic school, said she was quite one in heart--"Cela se peut," thought I; but somehow or other
"Je ne le crois pas," for I have heard some little anecdotes of her mother, in which, whatever
may be her theoretical views of mysticism, her practical opinions are rather more lax than
Fénelon's. Much against my will I took my leave, willing to hope that Mme. S. spoke the truth
when she said how glad she should be to see me if I visited Paris during the winter; she is
off to Switzerland in a few days. The French say we have spoilt her--in fact, she occupies
little of the public attention in Paris.

The next event most interesting was our visit to the Corps Législatif, or House of Commons.
We went to a certain door, to which we were refused admittance, and told it was too full or
too late. But said I, "Nous sommes Anglois"; in an instant a man came up and placed us in an
inner gallery in the body of the house. The House is something like the Royal Institution--of
course larger and beautifully fitted up. Considering it as the Royal Institution for your better
comprehension, the President sits on a tribunal throne in a recess corresponding to the fire-place;
immediately below is a sort of Rostrum from whence the Members speak, in situation like the
lecturer of the R.I. In point of decoration and external appearance both of house and members,
it is far superior to our House of Commons, as all the members wear uniforms of blue and gold,
but taking it all together I know not that anything can be more illustrative of the French
Character--externally all correct and delightful, but within "a sad rottenness of the state
of Denmark."

The president began the proceedings by ringing a bell; a paper was then read detailing, I believe,
the orders of the day. A member then arose and went to the Rostrum. In the middle of his speech
he was called to order and told it was a very bad speech, so down he came and another mounted.
He was equally disliked, for they told him he spoke too low and they could not hear him, so
he disappeared; then half a dozen got up and were so impatient that they began speaking altogether
before they reached the Tribune. In vain did the President ring his bell, and stand up and
gesticulate. Silence, however, was at length obtained, and he addressed them, but with little
better success than the rest. One man then stept forward and did obtain a hearing, for he had
good lungs and a fair share of eloquence. His speech was short, but it was by far the best;
his name was Dumolard.[56] Soon afterwards the sitting broke up; the whole took up little more
than an hour. I know not whether the perfect want of order was more ridiculous or disgusting;
the sittings of the Senate (Peers) are private....

We will now take you to Malmaison, the interesting retreat of the interesting Joséphine. Her
character was scarcely known in England. We hear little more of her than as a discarded Empress
or Mistress of Buonaparte's, but she had much to recommend her to public as well as private
notice. The French all speak highly of her, and it is impossible, on seeing Malmaison and hearing
of her virtues, not to join in their opinion. To be sure, as a Frenchman told me in running
through a list of virtues, "Elle avait été un peu libertine, mais ce n'est rien cela," and,
indeed, I could almost have added, "C'est bien vrai," for every allowance should be made; consider
the situation in which she was placed, her education, her temptations; many a saint might have
fallen from the eminence on which she stood; I never dwelt with more satisfaction or felt more
inclined to coincide in that benevolent verdict of the best of judges of human nature and human
frailty, "Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more," than in criticising the character
of Joséphine.

I am not sure whether you know exactly the history of Malmaison. The house and land attached
to it were purchased by Buonaparte when First Consul, and given to Joséphine, who made it what
it is, and bought more land, so that it is now in fact a little Estate. On being divorced,
she retired thither with Eugène Beauharnais, her son, and younger children. Her pursuits and
occupations will be best understood by describing what we saw. I should say, before I proceed,
that it required some interest to get in, and that we went with the Hibberts, who knew the
secretary of the Swedish Ambassador, in whose suite we were incorporated for admission. The
chief room in the house is what is called the Gallery A, planned and finished according to
her own designs; the floor is a mass of dark inlaid marble, the ceiling arched and light admitted
from it, the whole not much unlike the Gallery at Winnington on a much larger scale. It would
be difficult to describe the fitting up of the interior. The walls are hung with the most exquisite
selections from ancient Masters, not stolen, but many given to her, and the rest purchased
by herself; but I was more struck by the statues than with any thing else. The dots represent
them and their situations in the Gallery; they are chiefly by two modern artists, Canova and
Boher, though I fear the reputation of my taste and judgment will suffer by the confession.
I still must confess that I felt far more pleasure than in looking either upon Apollo or the
Venus de Medicis. There was a Bust and Statue of herself, the latter particularly beautiful,
and if accurate, which I was assured it was, the original must have been elegant and interesting
to the last degree. It reminded me much of Lady Charlemont, with a stronger expression of sense.
The rest of the room was furnished with tables inlaid with marble, upon which were a variety
of bronzes, pieces of armour, &c., and her musical instruments were as she had left them, and
everything wore an appearance of comfort which is seldom seen in the midst of such magnificence.
Through folding doors you enter into a smaller room hung with pictures. C. was her chapel;
before a little unostentatious altar, which had every appearance of having daily witnessed
her devotions, was a beautiful Raphael; the walls were hung with seven small Scripture subjects
by Poussin. I would have given a great deal to have been her invisible observer in this sacred
retirement. She must have been alone, for it was scarcely large enough to admit priest or attendant.

D. was a room in which she breakfasted, during which time music was generally performed in
B. From E. was a fine view of the Aqueduct of Marly, and E. was the way to the Garden, which
she had fitted up in the English style. I have not time to enter into detail of these or her
greenhouses. She was fond of Society and patronised the Arts. She allowed Artists to sit at
leisure in her gallery to copy pictures, and conversed with them a great deal. She did an infinity
of good to all within her reach and was beloved by all. Her death was very sudden; she had
complained of a sore throat, but not sufficiently to confine her to her room. On a certain
Wednesday or Thursday she was in her Park in high spirits, showing it to the Emperor Alexander
and King of Prussia; being rather heated she drank some iced water; in the evening she was
worse, on Sunday she was dead, sensible to the last; talked of death, seemed perfectly resigned--to
use the words of a French lady, who told me many interesting particulars, "sa mort était très
chrétienne." They were busied in packing pictures and making catalogues, but I believe there
is no fear of dismantling the house, as Eugène Beauharnais[57] and the children are to have
it in conformity to her will.[58] I have seen few things since my departure from England which
have interested me more than Malmaison, and I could almost fancy that her statue, which is
that of a pensive female, with the chin resting on the hand, was her ghost ruminating over
the extraordinary events which had recently occurred, and which she had quitted for ever. You
will see Malmaison in my sketch-book, as well as the Castle of Vincennes, which is as picturesque
and imposing as it is interesting, from the circumstances attending the Duke d'Enghien's[59]
death. It seems this event was known at Paris the next day and spoken of with as much freedom
as the despotic government of Paris would admit....

I went yesterday to see the house of Peers in the Luxembourg. The Hall of sittings is not unlike
that of the Corps Législatif, but the decorations are more interesting, each niche being filled
with Austrian standards and a few others. Under a gilt dome, supported by similar pillars,
was the spot where Napoleon's throne was not. The remnants I saw lying in one of the Ante-rooms,
all of which were ornamented with immense pictures of the principal battles, but these, out
of compliment to the Emperor, &c., had been covered over with green baize, even the very standards
had been removed during the stay of the Emperor of Austria in Paris. There is a sitting on
Tuesday, and if I stand at the door I may see the Marshals alight, but my curiosity would not
be satisfied, as no persons seem to know them; even the man who shewed us the hall, who actually
keeps the door thro' which they enter and sees them all constantly, assured me he did not know
one from the other. He did not even know whether Marmont[60] had one arm or two.

LETTER VI.

PARIS, July 11th.

Thanks to our Landlord, and not to Sir Charles Stuart, we have just been elbowing the Marshals,
as a serjeant of the National Guard offered to take us into the Thuilleries, and in we went
with him in full uniform, on the very best day we could have selected since our arrival in
Paris, as a corps of about 10 or 15,000 men were to be reviewed by the King "en masse" in the
Place de Carousel, immediately in front of the Thuilleries.

We were stationed in a room of which I had heard much and wished above all things to see--"la
Salle des Maréchaux," so called from the full-length portraits of 18 of these gentlemen with
which it is hung; the upper part of the room is surrounded by a gallery decorated with pictures
of the chief battles--Lodi, Passage of the Po, and one sea piece descriptive of the capture
of our Frigate, the Ambuscade, by a smaller vessel. It is so good a picture that for the sake
of the painting I never thought of lamenting the subject.

After standing in this Hall for a few minutes in the midst of Generals without number in full
uniform, I had the satisfaction of being almost knocked over by Marshal Jourdan,[61] a sharp,
queer-looking fellow not at all stamped with the features of a hero. I eyed him well, and had
scarcely satiated my curiosity when half a dozen more came by, walking about without peculiar
honors or attention, and only to be distinguished from the Generals by a broad red ribbon,
worn like those of our Knights of the Bath.

I looked at each and all, but as few could tell their names I was at a loss to distinguish
one from another; my head and eyes were in a perfect fidget, flying from Marshal to Marshal
and from Picture to Picture.

Of the Ducs de Treviso,[62] de Conegliano,[63] Serurier,[64] and Perignan[65] I had no doubt,
as I saw them again several times, but I am not sure that I should know the others except from
a recollection of their pictures.

I will describe a few while their countenances are fresh upon my memory.

Ney[66] is a fine, handsome man, but remarkably fair with light curling hair, and struck us
very like Mrs. Parker, of Astle.

Duc d'Istria[67] was reckoned by Robert Hibbert like me--that is to say, he had dark arched
eyebrows, a fox-like sort of countenance, very dark, almost swarthy, and from his extreme bilious
appearance, I should imagine might be troubled, like myself, with bad headaches.

Davoust![68] I can scarcely recall his portrait without shuddering. If ever an evil spirit
peeped thro' the visage of a human being, it was in Davoust. Every bad passion seemed to have
set its mark on his face: nothing grand, warlike, or dignified. It was all dark, cruel, cunning,
and malevolent. His body, too, seemed to partake of his character. I should fancy he was rather
deformed. I never saw so good a Richard III. Let him pass and make way for one of a different
description, Victor,[69] a fine, open, gentlemanly countenance, tho' not like a military hero.
Marmont, a dark haired, sharp-looking man of military stature. Duc de Dantzig,[70] very ugly
and squinting. Berthier,[71] remarkably quiet and intelligent. Murat,[72] an effeminate coxcomb
with no characteristic but that of self-satisfaction. Moncey, a respectable veteran. Massèna,[73]
the most military of all, dark hair and countenance, fine figure. Soult,[74] a stern soldier,
vulgar but energetic; his mouth and lower part of his face like Edridge,[75] though not so
large a man.

The King was to me a very secondary person; however, I was close to him as he tottered, like
a good old well-meaning man, to Mass. On his return he appeared, as I described last Sunday,
in the balcony facing the gardens for a few minutes and was loudly cheered, and then he came
back to the Salle des Maréchaux and sat down in a fine chair of Bonaparte's, covered all over
with his Bees, in a Balcony facing the Place de Carousel, from whence he looked down on the
10,000 troops who were there assembled. The shouts here were not what they ought to have been.
Comparatively few cried "God bless him!" and I much fear the number who thought it was still
less. The Duc de Berri,[76] on horseback with Marshal Moncey on one side and Du Pont[77] on
the other, reviewed the troops, who passed in companies and troops before them. As each company
passed the officer held up his sword and cried "Vive le Roi!" and some of the soldiers did
the same, but not more than one out of ten.

I heard an anecdote of the Duc de Berri which is, I hope, true. A few days ago in reviewing
some troops on the Champs Elysées an officer in passing chose to cry out, "Vive Napoléon!"
upon which the Duc rode up to him, tore his Epaulette from his shoulder and order from his
breast, threw them on the ground, and instantly dismissed him the service; this spirit pleased
the soldiers, and they all shouted "Vive le Roi!"

On Saturday we went to St. Cloud, Versailles, and the great and little Trianon. St. Cloud and
the great Trianon were the especial residences of Buonaparte, and I looked at his bed and tables
and chairs with some curiosity. I have not time to describe all these. I saw one public place
yesterday which should be mentioned, a museum of models in every department of art and science,
with all the machines, &c., connected with them. I would willingly conclude my observations
on Paris with some remarks on its manners, principles, &c., and I would begin with Religion
first if I could, but the fact is there appears to be none. If any does exist it must approximate
to Mysticism and lie concealed in the recesses of the heart, for truly "the right hand knoweth
not what the left hand doeth." But with all this non-appearance I should be cautious in passing
too severe a censure. It must be remembered that the nation is military, that from the earliest
years they "sing of arms," and Buonaparte carried this to such a degree that even children
not much older than Owen[78] are to be seen in full Uniforms. He wished to incorporate the
two terms of man and soldier. We laughed, you remember, at the account of the little King of
Rome appearing in Uniform; in Paris this would not appear ridiculous. He had uniforms of all
the favourite regiments horse and foot....

But yet there appears to be less vice than in England, I should rather say less organised vice;
I have not heard of a single Robbery, public or private--I walk without fear of pickpockets;
I should be inclined to say they seemed rather against themselves than against each other.
Their principles may be more relaxed on some points than ours, but I doubt much whether a Frenchman
would not be as much disgusted in England as an Englishman could possibly be in France; we
call them a profligate race and condemn them in toto--something like Hudibras' John Bull--

    "Compounds for sin he is inclined to
     By damning those he has no mind to."

Their public walks and Theatres are less offensive to decency than ours. Drunkenness is scarcely
known; at first sight I should pronounce them an idle, indolent people; the streets are almost
always full; the gardens, public walks, &c., swarm at all hours with saunterers. According
to my ideas a Frenchman's life must be wretched, for he does not seem at all to enter into
the charms of home--their houses are not calculated for it; they huddle together in nooks and
corners, and the male part (judging from the multitudes I daily see) leave the women and children
to get through the day as they can.

Their coffee-houses are some of them quite extraordinary; most of them are ornamented with
Mirrors in abundance, but some shine with more splendour. In the Palais Royal there is one
called "Le Café de mille Colonnes," which merits some description. It consists of three or
four rooms--the largest is almost one mass of plate-glass Mirrors, beautiful clocks at each
end, and magnificent chandeliers; behind a raised Table of most superb structure, composed
of slabs of marble and plate-glass, sat a lady dressed in the richest manner, Diamonds on head
and hand, Lace, Muslin, &c. This is the Landlady; by her a little boy, about 4 years old, stood
in charge of a drawer from whence the small change was issued; this, if it happened to be copper,
was delicately touched by the fair hand, which was immediately washed in a glass of water as
if contaminated by the vulgar metal. She never spoke to the waiters, but rung a golden bell;
her inkstands, flower jars--in short, every article on the table was of the same metal or of
silver gilt. The tables for the company were fine marble slabs; the room was from the reflection
of all the mirrors, as you may suppose, a perfect blaze of light, and yet altogether the place
looked dirty, from the undress and shabby coats of the company. The French never dress for
the evening unless going out to parties, and they always look dirty and unlike gentlemen; the
former is not the case, in fact for they are constantly washing and bathing. An hour or two
before I was in this extraordinary coffee-house I had traversed a spot as opposite to it as
could well be--the Catacombs!--a range of vaults nearly half a mile long, about 80 feet under
ground, in which are deposited all the bones from all the cemeteries in Paris. I suppose we
were in company with some millions of skeletons, whose skulls are so arranged as to form regular
patterns, and here and there was an altar made of bones fancifully piled up, on the sides an
inscription in Latin, French, &c. Behind one wall the bodies of all who perished in the massacres
in Paris were immured. They were brought in carts at night and thrown in, and there they rest,
festering not in their shrouds but in clothes. Such a mass of corrupt flesh would soon have
infested all the vaults, so they were bricked up.

I wish to recommend our hotel to any people you may hear of coming to Paris--Hôtel des Estrangers,
Rue du Hazard, kept by Mr. Meriel. Its situation is both quiet and convenient; it is really
not five minutes' walk from the leading objects of Paris, and the people have been civil to
us beyond measure.

CHAPTER IV

ON THE TRACK OF NAPOLEON'S ARMY

The Ex-Imperial Guard--Anecdotes of the last days at Fontainebleau--Invalided Cossacks--"Trahison"--Ruin
and desolation--Roast dog--An English soldier--A Trappist veteran--Jack boots--Polytechnic
cadets--A Russian officer--Cossacks, Kalmucks, and sparrows--Prussians and British lions--Rhine
Castles--Rival inscriptions--Diligence atmosphere--Brisemaison--Sociable English.

On leaving Paris, Edward Stanley planned to follow the traces of the desperate campaign which
Napoleon had fought in the early months of that year (1814) against the Allies, and in which
he so nearly succeeded in saving his crown for a time.

As, however, the English travellers did not intend to return again to Paris, they reversed
Napoleon's line of march and started to Fontainebleau by the road along which the Emperor rode
back in hot haste on the night of March 30th, to take up the command of the force which should
have been defending his capital, and where the sight of Mortier's flying troops convinced him
that all hope was at an end.

When they had visited Fontainebleau, where the final abdication had taken place on April 11th,
they turned north-east to Melun and posted on through towns which had been the scenes of some
of the most desperate fighting in that wonderful campaign, when Napoleon had seemed to be everywhere
at once, dealing blows right and left against the three armies which, in the beginning of January,
had advanced to threaten his Empire--Bülow in the north, Blücher on the east, and Schwarzenberg
on the south.

They passed through Guignes and Meaux, by which Napoleon's army had marched after his victory
over Blücher at Vauchamps on February 14th, in the rapid movement to reinforce Marshal Victor,
and to drive back Schwarzenberg from the Seine.

Through Château Thierry, where on the 12th of February the Emperor and Marshal Mortier had
pursued Russians and Prussians from street to street till they were driven over the Marne,
and whence the French leader dashed after Blücher to Vauchamps.

Through Soissons, which the Russians under Winzengerode had bombarded on March 3rd, and forced
to surrender, whereby Blücher and Bülow were enabled to join hands.

Through Laon, where Blücher retreated after Craonne, and where he finally shattered Marmont's
forces in a night attack.

By Berry au Bac, where the Emperor crossed the Aisne on his way to fight Blücher at Craonne,
the scene on March 7th of one of the bloodiest battles of the war.

On to Rheims where, after Marmont's disaster at Laon, Napoleon beat the Russians just before
he was forced to rush southwards again to contend with Schwarzenberg and his Austrians.

Finally they reached Châlons, which had been Napoleon's starting-point for the whole campaign,
and where he had arrived in the closing days of January after having taken his last farewell
of Marie Louise and of the King of Rome.

After Châlons they turned eastwards, following the line of fortresses for which Napoleon had
staked and lost his crown, and reached the Rhine by Verdun, Metz, and Mayence; thence to Aix-la-Chapelle,
Lille, and Brussels, which had by the Treaty of Paris, in May, been ceded with the whole of
Belgium to the Netherlands.

Edward Stanley to his Wife.

MELUN, July 14th.

We quitted our Hotel yesterday morning at six for Fontainebleau.

There is nothing particularly interesting about the road, which is almost an incessant avenue.
About half-way we passed a fine Château of Marshal Jourdan's.

The forest of Fontainebleau commences about four miles from the town and extends some nine
or ten miles in all directions. At first I was in hopes of being gratified with the sight of
fine woods, but, with the exception of a few patches of good oaks, the remainder is little
better than underwood and dwarflings.

We went into the heart of the forest to see an old Hermitage now inhabited by a keeper and
his family. They had been visited by Cossacks, but had received no injury whatever; on the
contrary the poor woman related with all the eloquence of Truth and the French animation that
from their own soldiers they had suffered all that cruelty and rapacity could devise--indeed,
the house and gardens bore evidence to the facts--window shutters pierced with bullets, broken
doors, furniture gone, and above 800 francs' worth of honey destroyed out of pure wantonness--in
short the poor people seemed quite ruined. I received a similar account in the town. Fontainebleau
is a dull, melancholy-looking place, with a very extensive ugly palace--interesting only from
the late events. Scarcely a soul appeared about; we crossed the large court in which Buonaparte
took his last farewell and embraced the Imperial Eagles, called by some loyal French "The vile
Cuckoos." Our hostess was, I presume, a staunch imperialist, who thought she could not shew
her zeal for the Emperor in a stronger manner than by imposing on Englishmen. She began by
asking 16s. for a plate of 8 little wretched mutton chops; we resented the imposition, although
the sudden appearance of 4 or 5 officers of the imperial guard almost rendered it doubtful
whether we ought to act too warmly on the defensive, as they seemed to patronise our hostess;
however, we refused to pay and retired unimposed upon.

The imperial guard here are supposed to be particularly attached to the Emperor, and of course
averse to Englishmen, but I was agreeably surprised to find three out of the four really something
like gentlemen in their manners; we entered into conversation, which I managed as dexterously
as I could, manœuvering between the evil of sacrificing my own opinions on one side, and of
giving them offence on the other; it was a nice point, as I perceived a word beyond the line
of demarcation would have inflamed them in a trice. One happened to differ with another on
a political point, which produced a loud and rapid stamping with the feet, accompanied by a
course of pirouets on the heel with the velocity of a dervish, which fully proved what might
be effected on their tempers had I been disposed to try the experiment. They called themselves
the Ex-Imperial Guard. On retiring I shook hands with them, and with as low a bow as the little
King of Rome, said "Messieurs les Gardes d'Honneur, Je vous salue." ...

LETTER VII.

Monday, July 19th.

...The history of Buonaparte immediately preceding, and subsequent to the surrender of Paris,
was never actually known--I will give it you.

The capitulation took place on the 30th (March). In the evening of that day he arrived at Fontainebleau
without his army. Rumours of fighting near Paris had reached him. He almost immediately set
off with Berthier in his carriage for Paris, and actually arrived at Villejuif, only 6 miles
from the capital; when he heard the result he turned about and appeared again at Fontainebleau
at 9 the next morning. When he alighted, the person who handed him out, a sort of head-porter
of the Palace, who was our guide, told me he looked "triste, bien triste"; he spoke to nobody,
went upstairs as fast as he could, and then called for his plans and maps; his occupation during
the whole time he staid consisted in writing and looking over papers, but to what this writing
and these papers related the world may feel but will never know; his spirits were by no means
broken down; in a day or two he was pretty much as usual, and it is said he signed the Abdication
without the least apparent emotion. We heard he was mad, but I can assure you from undoubted
authority that he was perfectly well in mind and body the whole time, and, notwithstanding
his excessive fatigues, as corpulent as ever; indeed, said our guide, "War seems to agree with
him better than with any man I ever knew." Buonaparte laid out immense sums in furnishing and
beautifying the Palais here. I got into his library, the snuggest room you ever saw, immediately
below a little study in which he always sat and settled his affairs; his arm-chair was a very
comfortable, honest, plain arm-chair, but I looked in vain for all the gashes and notches which
it was said he was wont to inflict upon it. I could not perceive a scratch, he was too busily
employed in that said chair in forming plans for cutting up Europe; within three yards of his
table was a little door, or rather trap door, by which you descended down the oddest spiral
staircase you ever beheld into the Library, which was low and small; the books were few of
them new, almost all standard works upon history--at least I am sure 4 out of 5 were historical--all
of his own selection, and each stamped, as in fact was everything else from high to low, far
and wide, with his N., or his Bees or his Eagle--all of which Louis XVIII is as busily employed
in effacing, which alone will give him ample employment: but to return to the books. Amongst
the rest I found--Shakespeare ... and a whole range of Ecclesiastical History, which, if ever
read, might account in some degree for his shutting up the Pope as the existing representative
of the animals who have occasioned half the feuds and divisions therein recorded. There was
a Chapel, which he regularly attended on Sundays and Saints' days. His State bed was a sort
of State business, very uncomfortable, consisting of 5 or 6 mattresses under a royal canopy
with 2 Satin Pillows at each end.

During his residence he never stirred beyond the gates, though I could not discover that he
was at all under restraint, or in any way looked upon as a prisoner; we were told in England
(what are we not told there?) that he feared the people, who would have torn him in pieces;
this is an idle story. I rather suspect the people liked him too well, besides which his Guards
were there, and by them he is idolised. He generally took exercise in a long and beautiful
Gallery, called the Gallery of Francis I., on both sides of which were busts of his great Generals
on panels ornamented with the N., and some name above alluding to a victory; thus above one
N. was Nazareth, which puzzled me at first, but I afterwards heard he had cut up some Turks
there; besides the Gallery, he walked every day up and down a Terrace; he dined every day in
a miserable (I speak comparatively) little passage room without any shew of state; he was affable
to his attendants and is liked by them. His abdication room is not one of the state apartments--it
is a shabby ante-room; I could almost fancy that in performing this humiliating deed he had
retired as far as possible from the Halls and Saloons which were decorated by his hand, and
had witnessed his Imperial magnificence. Most of the Marshals were in the room, and it would
have been a tour indeed to have glided through the hearts of each when such an extraordinary
performance was transacting. It was in the great Court before the Palace that he took his leave,
not above 1,500 troops were present. At such a moment to have heard such a speech, delivered
with the dignity and stage effect Buonaparte well knew how to give, must have produced a strong
effect--how great (how sad I had almost said) the contrast!

The stones were overgrown with grass; nobody appeared, no voice was heard except the clacking
of half a dozen old women who were weeding on their knees, and all the windows were closed.
The dreary, deserted present compared with the magnificent past excited nearly the same feelings
as if I had been looking on Tadmor in the wilderness. After passing the Imperial prison we
were ushered into the apartments of the Imperial prisoners, the poor Pope and his 16 Cardinals.
I had quite forgotten the place of their confinement, and was a little surprised when the man
said, "Here, Sir, dwelt for 19 months the holy Conclave of St. Peter." He must have led a miserable
life, for though he was allowed two carriages, with 6 and 8 horses to each, he neither stirred
out himself nor allowed any of the Cardinals to so do, saying he did not think it right for
prisoners. Buonaparte saw him in January, I think the man said, for the last time. So much
for Fontainebleau. Few have followed their master to Elba. Roustan the Mameluke and Constant
his Valet were certainly very ungrateful; one of them--I forget which--to whom Buonaparte had
given 25,000 fr. (about £1,200) the day before he left Fontainebleau, applied to the Duc de
Berri for admission into his service; in reply the Duc told him his gratitude ought to have
carried him to Elba, but though it had not, if he (the Duke) ever heard that Buonaparte wished
to have him there, he would bind him hand and foot and send him immediately. None of the Royal
allies have been to Fontainebleau at the time or since, except the King of Prussia, who came
incog. a few days ago. This the guide said he had heard since; he had, indeed, seen three persons
walking about, but he had not shewn them the Palace nor spoken to them. That it was the King
of Prussia was confirmed by a curious little memorandum I found wafered over a high glass on
the top of the room in which we dined, and which caught my eye immediately; I shewed it to
the people of the house, who said they had not observed it before, but remembered three gentlemen
dining there on that day. "Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse accompagné du Prince Guillaume son fils
a diné en cette appartement avec son premier Chambellan Mr. Baron D'Ambolle, le 8 Juillet,
1814." ... This is the way the King of Prussia always went about in Paris, nobody knew him
or saw him....

From Fontainebleau we went to Melun and kept proceeding through Guignes to Meaux. At Guignes
we began to hear of the effects of war: 15,000 Russians had been bivouacked above the town
for a week. Buonaparte advanced with his troops, on which they retired, but troops do not walk
up and down the earth like lambs, but rather like roaring lions, seeking whom they may devour;
however, here let us insert once for all the account I have invariably received from sufferers
throughout the whole Theatre of war--that the conduct of the Russians and French was widely
different; the former generally behaving as well as could possibly be expected, and pillaging
only from necessity; the latter seem to have made havoc and devastation their delight. They
might perhaps act on principle, conceiving that it was better for the treasure and good things
of the land to fall into their hands than the enemy's.

At a little shabby inn at Guignes where we breakfasted Buonaparte had slept. The people described
him dressed "comme un perruquier" in a grey great-coat; he clattered into the house, bustled
about, went to his room early, and appeared again at 9 the next morning, but "J'en reponds
bien" that he was not sleeping all that time. If from Guignes we traversed a country where
we heard of war, at Meaux we began to see the effects--before a picturesque gateway we descended
to cross the bridge over a stone arch which had been blown up. Shot-holes marked the wall,
and within the houses were well bespattered with musket balls. It was the first visible field
of battle we had crossed, and to heighten the interest, while we were looking about and asking
particulars of the people, up came bands of Russian troops of all descriptions, Cossacks included,
1,500 having just entered the town invalided from Paris on their return home. To be sure, a
more filthy set I never beheld. The country is pretty well stocked with Cossack horses; they
were purchased at a very cheap rate--from 25 shillings to 50 a piece. We have had several of
them in our carriage, and find them far more active and rapid than the French, though smaller
and more miserable in appearance. My conversation with the Russians (for I made it a point
to speak to everybody) was rather laconic, and generally ran thus, "Vous Russe, moi Inglis"--the
answer, "You Inglis, moi Russe, we brothers"--and then I generally got a tap on the shoulder
and a broad grin of approbation which terminated the conference.

You know the chief event which occurred at Meaux was the explosion of the powder magazines
by the French on their retreat, for which they were most severely, and, I think, unjustly,
censured in our despatches--indeed, after seeing and hearing with my own eyes and ears, I feel
less than ever inclined to put implicit faith in these public documents. The Magazine was in
a large house where wines had been stored in the cellar--about half a mile to the west of the
town upon a hill. About 3 o'clock in the morning the explosion took place with an "ébranlement"
which shook the town to its very foundation. In an instant every pane of glass was shattered
to atoms, but the cathedral windows, which were composed of small squares in lead, escaped
tolerably well, only here and there some patches being forced out. The tiles also partook of
the general crash. Many, of course, were broken by the shower of shot, stones, &c., which fell,
but the actual concussion destroyed the greater part. Numbers of houses were remaining in their
dilapidated state, and presented a curious scene. We went to see the spot where the house stood,
for the house itself, like the temple of Loretto, disappeared altogether. Some others near
it were on their last legs--top, beams, doors, all blown away. Even the trees in a garden were
in part thrown down, and the larger ones much excoriated. Only one person was killed on the
spot, supposed to have been a marauder who was pillaging near the place. Another person about
half a mile off, driving away his furniture to a place of safety, was wounded, and died soon
afterwards.

From Meaux, I may say almost all the way to Châlons, a distance of above 150 miles, the country
bore lamentable marks of the scourge with which it has been afflicted. I will allow you--I
would allow myself perhaps, when I look back to the circumstances connected with the war--to
wish that all the country, Paris included, had been sacked and pillaged as a just punishment,
or rather as the sole mode of convincing these infatuated people that they are the conquered
and not the Conqueror of the Allies. Wherever I go, whatever field of battle I see--be it Craon,
Laon, Soissons, or elsewhere--victory is never accorded to the Russians. "Oh non, les Russes
étaient toujours vaincus." One fellow who had been one of Buonaparte's guides at Craon had
the impudence to assure me that the moment he appeared the Allies ran away. "Aye, but," said
I, "how came the French to retreat and leave them alone?" "Oh, because just then the trahison
which had been all arranged 19 months before began to appear."

Again, at Laon I was assured that the French drove all before them, and gained the heights.
"Then," said I, "why did not they stay there?" "Oh, then reappeared 'la petite trahison,'"
and so they go on, and well do they deserve, and heartily do I wish, to have their pride and
impudence lowered. But when I see what war is, when I see the devastation this comet bears
in its sweeping tail, its dreadful impartiality involving alike the innocent and the guilty,
I should be very sorry if it depended on me to pronounce sentence, or cry "havoc and let loose."
...

On the 14th we slept at Château Thierry--such an Inn, and such insolent pigs of people! Spain
was scarcely worse ... added to the filthiness of the place, a diligence happened at the same
time to pour forth its contents in the shape of a crew of the most vulgar, dirty French officers
I ever saw. It was well we had no communication with them, for by the conversation I overheard
in the next room there would have been little mutual satisfaction: "Oh! voici un regiment (alluding
to us 5) de ces Anglois dans la maison! où vont-ils les Coquins?" "Moi je ne sais pas, les
vilains!" Luckily they all tumbled upstairs to bed very soon, each with a cigar smoking and
puffing from beneath the penthouse of their huge moustachios, during their ascent, by the by,
keeping the Landlady in hot water lest they should break into her best bedroom, of which she
carefully kept the key, telling me at the same time she was afraid of their insisting upon
having clean sheets. By their appearance, however, I did not conceive her to be in much danger
of so unfair a demand. We had the clean sheets, damp enough, but no matter--she remembered
them in the Bill most handsomely, and when I remonstrated against some of her charges, for
I must observe that we dined in a wretched hole with our postillions, she checked me by saying,
"Comment, Monsieur, c'est trop! Cela ne se peut pas; comme tout ici est si charmant." ... There
was no reply to be made to such an appeal, so I bowed, paid, and retired. Then the bridge was
blown up, the streets speckled with bullets. Near the bridge, which had been smartly contested,
the houses were actually riddled, yet here the Emperor stood exposed as quiet and unconcerned
amidst the balls as if (to use their own expression) he had been "chez lui."

As we advanced the marks of war became stronger and stronger, every village wore a rueful aspect,
and every individual told a tale more and more harrowing to the feelings. The Postmasters seem
to have been the greatest sufferers, as their situation demanded a large supply of corn, horses
and forage, all of which, even to the chickens, were carried off. One poor woman, wife of a
postmaster, a very well-behaved, gentlewoman-like sort of person, told me that when 80,000
Russians came to their town she escaped into the woods (you will remember the snow was then
deep on the ground and the cold excessive) where for two days she and her family had nothing
to eat. The Cossacks then found her, but did no harm, only asking for food. I mention her case
not as singular, for it was the lot of thousands, but merely to shew what people must expect
when Enemies approach.

Soissons was the next place, and compared with the scene of desolation there presented all
that we had hitherto seen was trifling.

I little thought last February that in July I should witness such superlatively interesting
scenes. With the exception of Elba alone, ours has been the very best tour that could have
been taken, and exactly at the right time, for I apprehend that a month ago we could not have
passed the country....

LETTER VIII.

MAYENCE, July 22nd.

Our speed outstrips my pen. I am to retrace our steps to Soissons, whereas here we are upon
the banks of the Rhine, which is hurrying majestically by to terminate its course amongst the
dykes of Holland.

The nearer we came to Soissons[79] the nearer we perceived we were to the field of some terrible
contest, and the suburbs, where the thickest of the fight took place, presented a frightful
picture of war, not a house entire. It seems they were unroofed for the convenience of the
attacking party, or set on fire, an operation which took up a very short space of time, thanks
to the energetic labours of about 50 or 60,000 men. Indeed, fire and sword had done their utmost--burnt
beams, battered doors, not a vestige of furniture or window frames. I cannot give you a better
idea of the quantity of shot, and consequent number of beings who must have perished, than
by assuring you that on one front of a house about the extent of our home, and which was not
more favoured than its neighbours, I counted between 2 and 300 bullet marks. I was leaning
against a bit of broken wall in a garden, which appeared to be the doorway to a sort of cellar,
taking a sketch, when the gardener came up and gave me some particulars of the fight. He pointed
to this cave or cellar as the place of shelter in which he and 44 others had been concealed,
every moment dreading a discovery which, whether by friend or foe, they looked upon as equally
fatal. Fortunately the foe were the discoverers. Upon the termination of the battle, which
had been favourable to the Allies, in came a parcel of Russians upon the trembling peasants.
Conceiving it to be a hiding-place for French soldiers, they rushed upon them, but finding
none, satisfied themselves with asking what business they had there, and turning them out to
find their way through blood and slaughter to some more secure place of shelter. A small mill
pool had been so completely choked with dead that they were obliged to let off the water and
clean it out. With Sir Charles Stuart's dispatches cut out of the Macclesfield Paper we ascended
the Cathedral, and from thence, as upon a map, traced out the operations of both armies. Soissons
is half surrounded by the Aisne, and stands on a fine plain, upon which the Russians displayed.
Buonaparte, in one of his Bulletins, abuses a governor who allowed the Allies to take possession
of the town when he was in pursuit, thus giving them a passage over the river, adding that
had that governor done his duty the Russians might have been cut off. In England this was all
voted "leather and prunello" and a mere vapouring opinion of the Emperor's, but as far as I
could observe he was perfectly right, and had the governor been acting under my orders I question
much whether I should not have hanged him. In looking about we were shewn a sort of town hall,
with windows ornamented with the most beautiful painted glass you ever saw--nice little figures,
trophies, landscapes, &c.--but a party of Russians had unfortunately been lodged there, and
the glass was almost all smashed. I procured a specimen, but alas! portmanteaus are not the
best packing-cases for glass, and in my possession it fared little better than with the Cossacks.
However, if it is pulverised, I will bring it home as a Souvenir....

To face p. 161.

From Soissons to Laon the country is uninteresting except from the late events. With the exception
of the first view of the plain and town of Laon, we passed village after village in the same
state of ruin and dilapidation. Chavignon, about 4 miles from Laon, seemed, however, to have
been more particularly the object of vengeance; it was throughout nearly a repetition of the
suburbs of Soissons. Laon rises like a sort of Gibraltar from a rich and beautiful plain covered
with little woods, vineyards, villages, and cornfields; the summit is crowned with an old castle,
the town with its Cathedral towers and a parcel of windmills. Buonaparte had been extremely
anxious to dislodge the allies; for two days made a furious and almost incessant attack, which
was fortunately unsuccessful owing, to speak in French terms, to la petite trahison, in plain
English, the bravery of the Russians, who not only withstood the repeated shocks, but pursued
the enemy all the way to Soissons, every little copse and wood becoming a scene of contest,
and the whole plain was strewed with dead. Since quitting Rouen I do not recollect any town
at all to be compared with Laon either in point of scenery without or picturesque beauty within;
it is one of the most curious old places I ever saw--Round Towers, Gateways, &c. We took up
our quarters at an odd-looking Inn, with the nicest people we had met with for some time. They
spoke with horror of the miseries they had undergone in this Inn, not much larger than Cutts'
at Wilmslow; they had daily to feed and accommodate for upwards of two months 150 Russians
of all descriptions, and this at a moment when provisions were, of course, extremely dear.
The landlord's daughter with two friends were imprisoned, actually afraid of putting their
noses beyond the keyhole; luckily they could make artificial flowers, and two of them drew
remarkably well; a favourite dog of the landlord's was their companion. A Cossack had one day
taken him by the tail with the firm intent to put him on the kitchen fire, the bare recollection
of which kindled all our host's anger, and he declared that had his poor dog been roasted,
though he well knew the consequence, he should have shot the Cossack; fortunately the dog escaped,
but as his Master assured me, never smelt or heard a Cossack's name mentioned afterwards without
popping his tail between his legs and making off with the utmost speed. Both at this place
and at Soissons we met with people with whom Davenport[80] had lodged, and in both places he
has established a character which reflects the highest credit on his activity, humanity, and
generosity. He was no idle spectator; he went about endeavouring by every means in his power
to alleviate the miseries of war by protecting persons and property, and by administering to
the wants of the sick and wounded of every description....

On the 16th we quitted Laon for Berry au Bac, passing through Corbeny and close to the heights
of Craon, upon which a battle was fought which might be considered as the coup de grâce to
the French. The Emperor commanded in person; he talked nearly half an hour with the Postmaster,
whom he summoned before him; if the man spoke truth, his conversation appears to have been
rather childish. After asking many questions about the roads and country, he vented a torrent
of abuse against the Russians, upon whom he assured the Postmaster it was his intention to
inflict summary punishment, and, indeed, according to the French translation of the business,
he actually did so, tho' I never could find out that any other of the Imperial troops remained
to enjoy the victory on these said heights, saving and except the wounded and killed; one spot
was pointed out where in one grave were deposited the remains of 3,000....

In this village of Corbeny there had been sad devastation; but it was at Berry au Bac that
we were to see the superlative degree of misery. This unfortunate little town had been captured
7 times--4 times by the Russians, 3 times by the French; their bridge, a beautiful work of
3 arches, only completed in December, was blown up March 19. The houses fared no better; whole
streets were annihilated--chiefly for the sake of burning the beams for fire-wood by the Russians--but
the walls were in great measure knocked over by the French, for what other purpose than wanton
cruelty I could not learn. Pillage and violence of every description had been excessive. Some
of the inhabitants died of pure fright; a gentleman-like-looking man assured me his own father
was of the number. Even here the Cossacks were complimented for their comparative good behaviour,
while the French and the Emperor were justly execrated--"Plait à Dieu" said a poor man who
stood moaning over the ruins of his cottage, "Plait à Dieu, qu'il soit mort, et qu'on n'entendît
plus de Napoléon";--the old woman, his wife, told me they only feared the Cossacks when they
were drunk. An old Cossack had taken up his quarters with them--"Ah c'était un bon Viellard;
un bon Papa."

One day a party of 20 or 30 drunken Cossacks broke into their yard, and insisted on entering
the house; the old woman said she had nothing to fear and would have opened the door, but the
Cossack seized her, saying, "There is but one way to save you," and taking her by the arm,
shewed her to his companions as his prize and threatened the man who should touch his property
with instant death. They did not dispute the matter with him and retired quietly. When they
were out of sight he told her to follow him, and led her 3 or 4 miles up the country amongst
the woods and left her in a place of safety, taking a kind leave of her and saying, "I have
done all I could for you, now farewell"--and she saw no more of him....

We arrived at Rheims on the evening of the 16th, a large, fine, regular, dull-looking city
in a dull-looking plain. The Cathedral is grand enough, but I felt no wish to remain till the
Coronation. Hitherto we had seen inanimate vestiges of war, at Rheims we were to see the living
effects. By accident we passed the door of a large Church or Hall which had been converted
into an Hospital for 400 Russian prisoners, and on benches near the porch were seated some
convalescent patients without arms or legs. We stopped to speak to them as well as we could,
and upon saying we were Englanders, one of the Russians with evident rapture and unfeigned
delight made signs that there was a British soldier amongst their number, and immediately 4
or 5 of them ran to bring him out; and such a poor object did appear dragged along, his legs
withered away and emaciated to the last degree. He had been wounded at St. Jean de Luz in the
thigh, and subsequently afflicted with a fever which had thus deprived him of the use of his
limbs. We gave something to those who were nearest, and on my asking if any Prussian was there
to whom I could speak in French, as I wished to express our desire but inability to relieve
all, I was conducted through the wards to a miserable being who was seated with his head suspended
in a sling from the top of the bed, both legs dreadfully shattered, and unable to support himself
upright through extreme weakness.

During the whole of supper-time the Hospital and this Englishman hung heavy on my mind; I felt
as if I had not done enough, and that I might be of use in writing to his friends. Accordingly
about 10 o'clock I went again to the Gate and begged admittance. On mentioning my wish to see
the Englishman, I was immediately allowed to enter, and conducted up the wards. On each side
were small beds, clean, and in admirable order; there was nothing to interrupt the silence
but our own echoing footsteps and the groans of the poor patients all round. The Nurses were
in the costume of Nuns, and from religious principles undertake the care of the sick--there
was something very awful in marching up the aisles with these conductors at this time. My poor
countryman was asleep when I came to his bedside. I took down memorandums of his case, and
promised to write to his friends, and left him money to assist him on his road home, should
he (of which I much doubt) ever recover.

I staid with him some time; in the course of the conversation some wounded Prussians came up
on their crutches, and it was quite gratifying to see their kindness and goodwill to this poor
fellow who, sole of his nation and kindred, was wasting away amongst strangers. They patted
him on his head, called him their cher and bon garçon, lifted him up that he might see and
hear better, and he assured me that by them and by all the attendants he was treated with the
utmost kindness and attention. Amongst 400 wounded soldiers whose deep groans and ghastly countenances
announced that many were almost passing the barrier which separates the mortal from the immortal,
with their nurses by my side holding their glimmering tapers, each arrayed in the order of
their religion and wearing the Cross as the badge of their profession, was a situation in which
I had never before been placed. In offering ministerial advice, and, I trust, affording religious
consolation under circumstances so solemn and peculiar, you may conceive that I did speak with
all the earnestness and fervour in my power. I told the nurses who and what I was, and so far
from entertaining any illiberal ideas as to the propriety of my interfering in what might be
called their clerical department, they expressed the greatest pleasure and seemed to rejoice
that their patient was visited by one of his own ministers.... Thus ended my visit to the Hospital
at Rheims, which I never can forget.

We travelled the next day to Verdun, bidding adieu to the Hibberts at Châlons.

You will ask if we have seen any vestiges of war on the soil such as bodies. We have met with
a tolerable quantity of dead horses by the road-side and in ditches, but only one human being,
half scratched up by a dog, has appeared; a few rags of uniform dangling upon the skeleton
bones called our attention to it.

Verdun is a very comfortable town of considerable extent decently fortified; the number of
English there was from 1,000 to 1,100; they were all sent off in a hurry. At 5 in the evening
they received the order, at 7 the next morning the greater part were off, and 24 hours afterward
the Allies hovered round the town. The French boast, and nobody can contradict the assertion,
that the Allies were never able to take their fortresses; certainly not; for they never attempted.
Instead of losing their time in besieging, they left a few to mark the place and went on....
The English prisoners seem to have enjoyed every comfort they could expect--in fact, their
imprisonment was in great measure nominal; with little difficulty they were allowed to go as
far as they wished; they were noticed by the inhabitants, and many have married and settled
in France. I think the prisoners in England have not been so well off, and complain with reason.

We went to the English church and Theatre, and saw as much as we could for half a day. For
the honor of my country I lament to say that many here contracted heavy debts which are not
likely to be paid. Some instances were mentioned, the truth of which were proved by letters
I read from the parties themselves, little creditable to our national character, and by persons,
too, who ought to have known better. On the 18th we left Verdun for Metz. I had always winked
at and generally encouraged the addition of another passenger behind our Cabriolet. The road
was quite crowded with straggling soldiers going or returning to their several homes or regiments.
We rarely passed in a day less than 2 or 300, and really sometimes in situations so very favorable
to robbing that I am surprised we were never attacked, their appearance being generally stamped
with a character perfectly congenial to the Banditti Trade--dark, whiskered, sunburnt visages,
with ragged uniform and naked feet. Sometimes we were more fortunate than at others; for instance,
stragglers from the Hamburg garrison, whose wan faces bore testimony to the fact they related
of having lived for the last 4 or 5 months on horseflesh; but our charitable assistance was
to be this day most abundantly rewarded. We overtook a poor fellow, more wretched than most
we had seen, toiling away with his bivouacking cloak tied round him. He, too, solicited, and
misunderstanding my answer, said in the most pitiable but submissive tone, "Alors, Monsieur
ne permettra pas que je monte?" "Tout au contraire," said I, "Montez tout de suite." After
proceeding a little way I thought I might as well see who we had got behind us, and guess my
astonishment when I received the answer. Who do you imagine, of all the people in the world,
Buonaparte had raked forth to secure the Imperial Diadem upon his brow, to fight his battles,
and deal in blood, but--A monk of La Trappe. For three years had he resided in Silence and
solitude in this most severe society when Buonaparte suppressed it, and insisted that all the
Noviciate Monks in No. 36 should sally forth and henceforth wield both their swords and their
tongues; with lingering steps and slow our poor companion went. In the battle of Lutzen[81]
he fought and conquered. In Leipsic[82] he fought and fell--the wind of a shot tore his eye
out and struck him down, and the shot killed his next neighbour upon the spot; he was taken
prisoner by the Swedes, and was now returning from Stockholm to his brethren near Fribourg.
The simplicity with which he told his tale bore ample testimony to the Truth, but in addition
he shewed me his Rosary and credentials. After having talked over the battle I changed the
subject, and determined to see if he could wield the sword of controversy as well as of war;
and accordingly telling him who I was, asked his opinion of the Protestant Faith and the chief
points of difference between us. He hesitated a little at first: "Attendez, Monsieur, il faut
que je pense un peu." In about a minute he tapped at the carriage. "Eh bien, Monsieur, j'ai
pensé," and then entered upon the subject, which he discussed with much good sense and ability,
sometimes in Latin, sometimes in French; and though he supported his argument well and manfully,
he displayed a liberality of sentiment and a spirit of true Christianity which quite attached
me to him. I asked him his opinion of the salvability of protestants and infallibility of Catholics.
"Ecoutez moi," was his reply. "Je pense que ceux qui savent que la Religion Catholique est
la vraie Religion et ne la pratiquent pas, seront damnés, mais pour ceux qui ne pensent pas
comme nous. Oh non, Señor, ne le croyez pas. Oh mon Dieu! non, non! jamais, jamais!" "Are you
quite sure a minister ought not to marry? You will recollect St. Peter was a married man."
"Oh que, oui, c'est vrai, mais le moment qu'il suivit notre Seigneur on n'entend plus de sa
femme." From this we proceeded to various other topics, amongst others to the propriety of
renouncing a religion in which we conceived there were erroneous opinions. "Señor, écoutez,"
said he, "can that religion be good which springs from a bad principle? Les Anglois étaient
une fois des bons Catholiques; le Divorce d'un Roi capricieux fut la cause de leur changement.
Ah, cela n'était pas bon." ...

When we were on the point of parting he turned to me: "Señor, j'espère que je ne vous ai pas
faché, si je me suis exprimé trop fortement devant vous qui m'avez tant rendu service, il faut
me pardonner, je suis pauvre et malheureux, mais je pensois que c'était mon devoir."

It was as lucky a meeting for him as for me. I assisted him with money to expedite him homewards,
and he entertained and interested me all the way to Metz, when, much against my will, we parted,
for had he been going to Pekin I should have accommodated him with a seat....

LETTER IX.

COLOGNE, July 25th.

If you could see what I now see, or form any ideas adequate to the scenery around me, you would
indeed prize a letter which, though commenced at 4 in the morning, cannot be valued at a less
price than 2 or 3 old Castles; but it is not yet the moment to sing the praises of the Rhine.
I shall only say that we slept at Bacharach, and that I am now looking at 4 old Castles whenever
I raise my eyes from the paper, and that a fine old Abbey is only eclipsed by the gable end
of a Church, equally curious, which is almost thrusting itself into the window as if to look
at the strangers.

Little enlivened our day after parting with our Monk, unless I should except a good scene from
a picture which happened at one of the Post houses. No Postillions were at home, so the Landlord
himself was to drive--an enormous man, rather infirm, with a night-cap on his head, from whence
emerged a long pigtail. It was necessary he should be put into his Jack boots. By Jack boots
you are to understand two large things as big as portmanteaus, always reminding me of boots
fit for the leg which appears in the Castle of Otranto. Accordingly no less than 4 or 5 persons
actually lifted the Landlord into his boots, an operation which, from the weight and infirmities
of the one and the extreme clumsiness of the others, took up nearly a quarter of an hour; and,
of course, when fairly deposited in them he was unable to move, and further help was necessary
to place him on the saddle.... The first view of Metz, after traversing an uninteresting country,
is remarkably fine. It stands in a fine rich plain, near though beyond the reach of an eminence--for
it does not deserve the name of a mountain--the sides of which are covered with woods, villages,
and vineyards. There is something very grand in entering a fortified Town--the clattering of
drawbridges, appearance of moats, guns, sentinels, and all the other etceteras of war. Our
passports were demanded for the first time. At length we were allowed to pass, and found ourselves
in a large, clean town, chiefly remarkable for its Cathedral, the painted window of which was
equal to any I ever saw. The first thing we invariably do in these towns is to ascend the highest
spire, from whence the general plan and position are at once explained. You need not be alarmed.
There is no fever at present at Metz, or on the Rhine; but there has been. From the close of
1813 and until the last two months not less than 69,000 sick or wounded have been in the hospitals
of Metz--a large Church contained about 3,000 at a time, the remainder were scattered about
wherever they could find room, and many breathed their last in the streets. Of course, such
a concourse of dead and dying infested the air to a certain degree, and a fever was the result.
However, not above 2 or 300 inhabitants suffered. Of the sick troops from 12 to 1,500 per day
were buried without the town, and quicklime thrown in. We supped with three or four Frenchmen
and a Genoese officer, one of Buonaparte's Imperial Elites of the Guard. His form and countenance
were quite Vandyck--I never looked upon a face so well calculated for a picture; his dark whiskers
and black curling hair composed an admirable frame for a couple of the most expressive eyes;
his manners were extremely gentleman-like, and you may conceive I did not talk and look at
him with any diminution of interest when I found he was on his way home from Moscow. He had
gone through the whole of the retreat, had almost reached the boundaries of Poland, when at
Calick he was wounded, taken prisoner, and marched back to Moscow. His description of the miseries
of that horrible retreat was petrifying--when a horse fell it was instantly surrounded by famished
Frenchmen, who devoured the carcase; not merely those who slept were frozen, but even sentries
upon their posts. Yet with all this he imputed no blame to Buonaparte. The Russians, he said,
had reason to thank the severity of their climate, without which they must have been completely
conquered. I will say this, indeed, that the Russians themselves seem to consider their own
efforts as rather secondary to the weather. Besides this officer we had a Citizen of Metz,
a young officer of the Polytechnique School who had fought at Montmartre, and a youth who was
silent; the other 3, however, made ample amends, talking incessantly, and all equally vehement
in praise of Buonaparte. The officer blessed his stars that he had enough to live upon, and
that he was now quitting a service which, having lost its brightest ornament, was no longer
interesting or supportable. The young Polytechnique was equally violent, with less of the gentleman
to soften it down. He, too, was disgusted, and had retired for the same reason (these Frenchmen
are sad liars after all). Of course, as he had been engaged with his school companions I thought
I could not have a better opportunity of ascertaining the number killed at Montmartre, as it
was invariably circulated and believed at Paris that this defence was noble to a degree and
that the greater part perished by their guns. You will recollect that the Polytechnique cadets
I met on the heights of Montmartre said the same, and yet the youth asserted that they had
not lost a single individual, that only 30 were wounded, whereas they knocked over the Russians
in countless multitudes.[83] The Citizen took the best ground for his Panegyric. He referred
us to the roads, the public buildings, the national improvements which France had gained under
the dynasty of Napoleon; and when I hinted the intolerable weight of the taxes (being 1/5 on
all rents and property) he made light of them, assuring me that Frenchmen had quite enough
left for the comforts of life. When they all filled their glasses to drink to the health of
their hero I turned to the Genoese officer and begged first to drink to the restoration of
Genoa to that independence of which Napoleon had in great measure deprived her, adding that
her present degradation was a cruel contrast to the dignified station she once held in Europe.
His national superseded his Imperial feelings, and he drank my toast with great good humour
and satisfaction; nor did he think it necessary in return to press me to drink success to the
Emperor, though the Citizen on my refusal, half in joke, half in earnest, said he wished I
might be ill off for the rest of my journey.

My good fortune has not quitted me, however. The next morning on getting into the Diligence
we found only one passenger--Major Kleist, nephew to the celebrated Prussian General and to
General Tousein--a Russian equally famous here though not so well known in England. His appearance
was much in his favor; he talked a great deal; had commanded a regiment of the Russian Imperial
Elites of the Guard (in which he still was) at the battle of Leipsic and throughout the campaign;
been engaged in every action from the Borodino to the capture of Paris; wounded two or three
times; fought a French Officer in the Bois de Boulogne, and got his finger cut abominably;
visited London and Portsmouth with his Emperor, dined with the Regent, &c. He told me many
interesting anecdotes and particulars, although, from a certain random way of speaking and
the loose, unconnected manner in which his words dropped from him, I could not place implicit
confidence in what he said, nor vouch for the accuracy of his accounts. He said decidedly that
Alexander had visited the Princess of Wales in London incog.; he mentioned an anecdote which
I cannot quite believe, because had it occurred in Paris we must have heard of it. One day
when Eugène Beauharnais was with Louis XVIII. Marmont came in. Eugène, on seeing him, turned
to the King, said, "Sire, here is a Traitor; do not trust in him; he has betrayed one master,
he may betray you."

Marmont, of course, challenged him; they fought the next day and Marmont was wounded in the
arm. He spoke highly of the King of Prussia as a military, unassuming, amiable, sensible man,
and that he does visit the tomb of his wife.[84] Alexander, he said, was fond of diplomacy,
an amiable man, very brave, but not much of a general. I asked him what he thought of the Duchess
of Oldenburg. When I said she had excellent sense and great information, he simply replied,
"Oui, et peut-être un pen trop." Of Constantine[85] he spoke with indignation, and his whiskers
vibrated as he described his detestable character--debauched, depraved, cruel, dishonest, and
a coward. Constantine was abusing a Colonel in very gross tones, a short time ago, for misconduct
and incompetency in battle. "Indeed!" said the officer; "you must have been misinformed; this
cannot arise from your own observation, as I do not recollect having ever seen you near me
upon these occasions."

No wonder the Russians were moderate towards the inhabitants during the campaign--their discipline
was severe enough. Our friend the Major caught 7 Cossacks plundering a cottage; he had them
all tied up and knouted them to death by the moderate infliction of 1,000 blows each. In truth
he seemed to hold the lives of these gentlemen, including the Calmucs, rather cheap. "Pour
moi," said he, "Je considere un Cossac, un Calmuc et un Moineau à peu près comme la même chose."

At St. Avold we again fell in with a regiment of Russians, or rather detachments from many
regiments. Whoever they were they did not appear to be in high favour with the Major. "Our
army," said he, "is divided into three classes--the first we can trust for discipline and ability;
the second consists of Cossacks and other irregulars, whose business is reconnoitring, plundering,
and running away when they see the Enemy; the men before you compose the third--fellows who
know nothing and do nothing, but can stand quietly in the place assigned them and get killed
one after another without ever thinking of turning their backs"; and their appearance was very
like their character--patient, heavy, slumbering, hard-featured countenance; sitting or standing
without any appearance of animation.

At St. Avold we began to lose the French language, and from this my fluency was reduced to
signs, or at most to a very laconic speech--"Ich Englander, Ich woll haben Brod mitt Café,"
&c. At Dendrich, a little village near Forbach, we crossed the new line of demarcation between
France and Austria, and found the towns chiefly occupied by Bavarians. Unless I am much mistaken,
this country will soon be a bone of contention; the people (as far as I can judge in three
days) are dissatisfied, and the leaders of France look with a jealous eye on the encroachment,
and an imaginary line of separation will not easily be respected. Here I saw what is meant
by a German forest--as far as the eye could reach all was wood. Austria may, if she pleases,
by her new accession of territory become charcoal vendor to the whole world. The road is excellent,
carried on in a fine, broad, straight line. Till Buonaparte spoke the word, there was no regular
communication between Metz and Mayence, now there is not a more noble road for travelling.
We were now in the Hock country; in the Villages we bought what I should have called wine of
the same sort for 6d. a bottle....

On Thursday, the 21st, we entered Mayence, over and through similar drawbridges, bastions,
hornworks, counterscarps as at Metz; here we met a curious assemblage. By the first Gate were
stationed a guard of Prussians with the British Lions on their caps, John Bull having supplied
some Prussian Regiments with Uniforms. At the next gate a band of white Austrians, with their
caps shaded with boughs of Acacia (you will remember that their custom of wearing green boughs
in their Hats was interpreted by the French into a premeditated insult). These, with Saxons
in red, Bavarians in light blue, and Russians in green, made out the remainder of the motley
crew. We found an excellent Inn, and dined at a Table d'Hôte with about 30 people. The striking
contrast we already perceived between the French and Austrians was very amusing, the former
all bustle and loquacity with dark hair, the latter grave and sedate with light hair; the Inns,
accommodation, eating, &c., much cleaner; a band played to us during dinner, and I was pleased
to see the Austrian moustachios recede with a smile of satisfaction as they listened to the
"Chasse de Henri Quatre."

There is little to be seen in the town. I found a most intelligent bookseller, and was tantalised
with the number of fine Engravings, &c., I might have purchased for a trifle....

I have heard a curious political report repeated here, which is current all over the Continent--that
Austria has sold the Netherlands and Brabant to England; the report gains credit probably because
the towns in that part of the country are still garrisoned with British troops. Poor England
is certainly not much beloved; we are admired, feared, respected, and courted; but these people
will have, and perhaps with some reason, that upon all occasions our own Interest is the sole
object of consideration; that our Treaties have the good of ourselves and not the peace of
Europe at heart; and so far they carry this opinion, that I was very near getting into a quarrel
with a fat man in the Diligence who spoke it as a common idea that we fought with our money
and not with our blood, for that we were too rich to risk our lives, and had there been a bridge
that Napoleon would have been in London long ago. I told him he knew nothing at all about the
matter (to which, by the bye, he afterwards virtually assented), and as a Frenchman's choler
does not last long, we were good friends the rest of the journey, and he apologised for his
behaviour, saying, it was a failing of his--"de s'échauffer bientôt." Upon one point we agreed,
too, in politics, viz., being Anti-Napoleonites.

Now for the Rhine. At 10 o'clock on Friday, July 22nd, in a little rotten, picturesque-looking
boat and two men (preferring a private conveyance to the public passage boats for the convenience
of stopping at pleasure) we left Mayence; the river here is about half a mile across, traversable
by a bridge of boats. The Maine falls into it just above the town, and there appears nothing
on the Frankfort or Strasburgh side to interest a traveller's eye, the country being flat vine
or corn land. The Stream runs with a steady rapidity of about three and a half or 4 miles an
hour, so that in a boat, with the addition of oars, you may proceed at the rate of about 6
miles an hour. The distance to Cologne is about 120 miles. On the bank of the River we saw
some of those immense floats preparing which are composed of timbers for the Holland markets.
We glided with an imperceptible motion down the stream, expecting as we proceeded to behold
the magnificent ruins of which we had heard so much. But, alas! village succeeded village,
town followed town, and yet not a single turret made its appearance. We sat with our sketch
books in battle array, but our pencils were asleep; we began to regret the uninteresting, even
country we had passed from Metz to Mayence, and the time which might be called lost in coming
so far for so useless a purpose, and to make vow after vow that we would never in future believe
the account given by others respecting people and places. By this time our appetites began
to grow keen, luckily, just at the time when our spirits began to flag, and, accordingly, we
went on shore at Rudesheim, famous for its excellent hock, and having dispatched a dinner and
bottle of hock we ventured forth to explore, and, luckily, fell in with a little Gothic round
tower, which, with the dinner, rather raised our spirits and enabled us to proceed 4 or 5 miles
further to Bingen when we turned a Corner....

I verily believe such another corner does not exist in the world. From the corner of Bingen
must be dated the beauties of the Rhine, and from the corner of Bingen I commence my next letter;
suffice it now to say that the moment we turned the Corner we both, with one impulse, called
out, "Oh!" and sat in the boat with our hands uplifted in speechless astonishment....

LETTER X.

AIX LA CHAPELLE, July 27, 1814.

I left you turning the corner of Bingen, now let me describe what there presented itself. On
the left a beautiful picturesque town, with tower and picturesque-looking steeples placed each
exactly on the spot an artist would have selected, with hills and woods on each side and a
bridge running over a small river which emptied itself in the Rhine. Immediately before us,
on a small islet, stood the Tower of Mausthurm, or the Mouse turret, so called from a tradition
that a Baron once locked up a number of his Vassals in a tower and then set fire to it and
consumed it and its inhabitants, in consequence of which certain mice haunted him by day and
by night to such a degree that he fled his Country and built this solitary Tower on its island.
But all this would not do. The Mice pursued him to his Island, and the tale ends in his being
devoured by them there.

On both sides the river hills covered with vines and woods rose abruptly, and on the right,
tottering on a pinnacle that frowns over the flood, stood the Castle of Ehrenfels....

It would be quite impossible, and indeed unnecessary (as my sketch-book can best unfold the
tale), to describe all we saw. For above 100 miles, with little interruption, the same scenery
presented itself, attaining its superlative point of grandeur in the neighbourhood of Lorich
and Bacharach. It might be called a perfect Louvre of old Castles, each being a chef d'œuvre
of its species. I could almost doubt the interference of a human hand in their creation. Placed
upon elevated and apparently impossible crags, they look more like the fortresses of the Giants
when they warred against the Gods than any thing else. But the Castles were not the only points
of attraction. Every mile presented a village as interesting as the battlements which threatened
to crush them to death from above. Each vied with its neighbour in picturesque beauty, and
the people as well as the buildings in these remote nooks and corners partook of the wild character
of the scenery. A shower of rain and close of the day induced us to make Bacharach our sleeping-place.
The Landlord, with his night-cap on his head and pipe in his mouth, expressed no surprise at
our appearance. The coffee and the milk and the hock came in due season when he had nodded
acquiescence to my demand, and he puffed away with as much indifference as if two strange Englishmen
had not been in his house. We found good clean beds, and should have slept very well but for
the deep-toned Bell of the Church within a few yards of us, which tolled the time of night
every half-hour, and for a watchman who, by way of murdering the little sleep which had survived
the sound of the Bell, sounded with all his might a cow-horn, and then, as if perfectly satisfied
that he had awaked every soul in the village, bawled out the hour and retired, leaving them
just time to fall asleep again before the half-hour called for a repetition of his exertions.

Every evening about dusk, in our course down the river, a curious Phenomenon presented itself
which to me, as an Entomologist, had peculiar charms. We were surrounded as far as the eye
could reach with what appeared to be a fall of snow, but which, in fact, was a cloud of beautiful
white Ephemera just emerged from their Chrysalis state to flutter away in their perfection
for one or two hours before their death. I mention this circumstance now, whilst it is fresh
in my memory, for I really should hesitate in relating it before company for fear of being
accused of traveller's stories. I had heard of them before, and was therefore not so much surprised,
though the infinite number was truly astonishing.

On Saturday, 23rd, we dined and spent an hour or two in Coblentz, which, situated at the junction
of the Moselle with the Rhine, is strongly fortified towards the land. There is little worth
notice in the town except a Stone fountain erected by Napoleon, from the pipes of which run
the united streams of the two rivers. Upon these are carved in large letters the two following
inscriptions, the one immediately below the other in characters precisely similar:--

           A.N. MDCCCXII.
     Mémorable par la Campagne
         Contre les Russes
  Sous la Préfecture de Jules Dragon.

     *       *       *       *       *

      Vu et approuvé par nous
 Commandant Russe de la ville de Coblentz
       Le Ier. Janvier 1814.

At Coblentz as well as at Cologne the Rhine is passed by a flying bridge--i.e., a large boat
moored to several other smaller ones, whose only use is to keep the large one steady. It swings
from bank to bank, according as the mooring line is placed on one side or the other, merely
by the action of the current producing a sort of compound motion. Coblentz is completely commanded
by the heights of Ehrenbreitstein, a rock as high as Dover, the summit and side covered with
the ruins of the fortress which the French blew up. The people in this country are pretty well
satisfied with the change of affairs. They led a life of unsupportable tyranny under the rod
of Napoleon. The river was crowded with custom house officers. Not a man could pass without
being personally searched for Coffee and sugar in every part of his dress. All they lament
now is the uncertainty of their fate. Many expressed a hope that the report of their being
sold to England might be true. All they want is certainty, and then their commerce will revive.
As it is, nothing can be more uninteresting in a commercial point of view than this noble river.
We did not see above a dozen Merchants' barks in the course of 120 miles, and yet they say
trade is tenfold greater than when Napoleon governed. Below Coblentz we passed some of the
Châteaux of the German Princes, which are generally large, uncomfortable-looking houses, fitted
up, as far as external examination allowed us to judge, without taste. The river became rather
dull, but at Andernach, where we slept, it began to improve and to promise better for the next
morning, and for some miles we were not disappointed.

We were under the necessity of travelling on the Sunday, which in our situation I certainly
held to be no crime. What I could do I did in inducing our Boatmen to attend their Mass. Religion,
which appears to be nearly extinct in France, is by no means so in Germany. We find the churches
all well attended and plentifully scattered over the whole country. In the course of the morning
we passed a large Chapel dedicated to St. Apollonius, and noted for its Miracles, all of which
were recorded by our Boatmen with the air of implicit reverence and belief. It happened to
be the festival of the Saint, and from a distance of 10 or 20 miles even the road was crowded
with persons going or coming to their favourite shrine. You will recollect what Mme. de Staël
says of the Germans' taste for religious music. Of this we had a specimen to-day. As we passed
the height upon which the Chapel stood a boat containing 40 or 50 people put off from the shore
and preceded us for several miles chaunting almost the whole way hymns and psalms. In the Evening,
soon after leaving Bonn, we came up with another containing about 120, who every quarter of
an hour delighted us with the same strains. They glided with the stream, and gave us time to
row alongside, and we continued in their company the remainder of the day.

Could I have heard and not have seen all would have been perfect, but the charm was almost
broken by the heterogeneous mixture of piety and indifference, outward practice and inward
negligence. Some were telling their beads and chattering Pater Nosters, some were at one moment
on their knees, in the next quarrelling with their neighbour; but, after all, the general effect
was so solemn and imposing that I was willing to spare my criticisms, and give them credit
for perhaps more than they deserved. Conceive such a concourse of persons, on one of the finest
Evenings imaginable, floating silently with the stream, and then at a signal given bursting
forth into songs of praise to God--all perfect in their respective parts, now loud, now low,
the softer tones of the women at one time singing alone. If the value of a Sabbath depends
on the religious feelings excited, I may safely say I have passed few so valuable. They had
no Priest amongst them, the hymns were the spontaneous flow of the moment. Whenever one began
the rest were sure to follow.

When upon the subject of music I must be the advocate of Mme. de Staël. She has been accused
of falsehood in stating that in the Cottages in Germany a Piano Forte was a necessary piece
of furniture. I cannot from my own knowledge go quite so far, but from my short experience
of German manners I may safely say there is no nation in which Music is so popular. We have
heard the notes of pianos and harpsichords issuing from holes and corners where they might
least be expected, and as for flutes and other instruments, there is scarcely a village in
which, in the course of an hour, you will not hear a dozen.

At Cologne we were lodged at a French Inn kept by the landlord and his wife alone--no waiters,
no other attendance--and yet the house was spacious, clean, and excellent. I never met with
more attention and wish to accommodate, and not only in the house; the exertions of our host
were exerted still further in our behalf. He introduced us to a Club chiefly composed of French
Germans, who were as hospitably inclined as himself. One gentleman invited us to his house,
would give us some excellent hock, introduced us to his family, amongst the rest a little fellow
with a sabre by his side, with curling locks and countenance and manner interesting as Owen's.
Hearing I was fond of pictures and painted glass, he carried me to a fine old Connoisseur,
his father-in-law, whose fears and temper were a good deal roused by the "peste," as he termed
it, of still having half a dozen Cossacks in his house. However, they were officers, and by
his own account did him no harm whatever; but for fear of accidents he had unpanelled his great
dining-room. Our friend had a large and excellent house, in a style very unlike and far more
magnificent than is usually met with in England. In return for his civility I was delighted
to have it in my power to give him a few ounces of our Pecco Tea which remained of our original
stock. Travelling in Germany is certainly neither luxurious nor rapid; the custom of hiring
a carriage for a certain distance and taking post horses does not extend here, and you are
therefore reduced to the following dilemma, either taking a Carriage and the same horses for
your journey or the "Post Waggon," or Diligence, which is of the two rather more rapid. Of
two evils we preferred the last, and at half-past 8 this morning were landed at Aix la Chapelle,
having performed the journey of 45 miles in 12 and a half hours shaken to death, choked with
dust, and poisoned with tobacco, for here a great hooked pipe is as necessary an appendage
to the mouth as the tongue itself. Under the circumstances above mentioned, with the Thermometer
at about 98 into the bargain, you may conceive we were heartily glad to run from the coach
office to the Baths as instinctively as young ducks. On looking over the list of persons visiting
the place, we were delighted to find the names of Lord and Lady Glenbervie[86] and Mr. North.[87]
Accordingly, having first ascended the highest steeple in the town, and been more disgusted
than in any place I have seen since Spain, with virgins and dolls in beads and muslins, and
pomatum and relics of saints' beards, and napkins from our Saviour's tomb, and mummeries quite
disgraceful, we went to call upon them....

We find this, like every other town and village, swarming with Prussian troops. General Kleist
commands, and has no less an army than 170,000. This seems very like a determination of the
King of Prussia not to give up the slice he has gained in the grand continental scramble. Every
uniform we saw was of British manufacture. An officer told me we had furnished sufficient for
70,000 Infantry and 20,000 Cavalry.

There is little to be seen in this place. The country about reminded me most of England; for
the first time on the continent we saw hedges and trees of tolerable size growing amongst them.
We were directed above all other things to pay our respects to the great gambling table. It
is, indeed, one of the Lions of the Town; the room is splendid in size, and everybody goes
to see it. It is open 3 times a day for about 2 or 3 hours each time. About 50 or 60 people
were winning or losing round a large table at a game apparently something like vingt un; not
a word was said, but money was shovelled to the right and left very plentifully.... I forgot
to mention that near Linz on the Rhine we passed a headland fronted and inlaid with as fine
a range of Basaltic columns as the Giant's Causeway, some bent, some leaning, some upright.
They are plentiful throughout that part of the country, and are remarkably regular; all the
stone posts are formed of them, and even here I still see them....

LETTER XI.

BRUXELLES, 29th.

After a night and greater part of two days passed in a species of oven called a French Diligence,
with Réaumur Thermometer at 23--hotter, you will observe, than is necessary to hatch silkworms,
and very nearly sufficient to annihilate your unfortunate brother and husband--did we arrive
at Bruxelles.... I must give you a few details that you may fully understand the extent of
our misery. We arrived at Liège all well, with only two other passengers; conceive our sorrow
when on re-entering the Diligence after dinner we found besides ourselves and a lady the places
occupied by a Dutch officer, who sat gasping without his coat, and so far exhausted by the
heat, though he had been ten years in Batavia, that his pipe hung dangling as if he had not
breath sufficient to keep its vestal fire alive, and a lady with two children besides living
intruders. A net from the top was filled with bags, baskets, and band-boxes. Our night was
sad indeed, and the groans of our fellow-travellers and the ineffectual fluttering of a fan
which the Officer used proved how little they were satisfied with the order of things. The
children were crammed with a succession of French Plums, almonds, garlicked mutton, liqueurs,
and hock, all of which ingredients the kind mother endeavoured to cement on their Stomachs
by Basons of milk at sunrise, but no sooner had a few additional jolts brought these bons-bons
into close contact than the windows were occupied the rest of the journey by the stretched-out
heads of the poor children.

The heat has been more excessive for the last 4 or 5 days than has been experienced for many
years in this country; and, in short, when I think it worth while to mention heat as the cause
of real inconvenience, you may consider it such as would have thrown you into a fever. Enough
of our personal sufferings, which you may easily conceive have been few indeed if the above
is worth recording....

I left Aix la Chapelle with no great regret. The Country round it is pretty, much resembling
Kent, but as a town or watering-place it has nothing to recommend but its gambling-table. I
expected to have found a museum of human nature and national character.--Tables d'hôtes crowded
with the best bred of all countries, but just the reverse. There were Tables d'hôte's at the
minor Inns tolerably frequented, but none at the most fashionable; there the guests lived by
themselves. There is no point of rendezvous, no promenade, no Assembly room, where the concentrated
world may be seen. Like Swedenborgh's theory of living in the midst of invisible spirits, so
at Aix la Chapelle (unless time and opportunity may have thrown him into private circles) a
traveller may be surrounded by Princes and Potentates without knowing or benefiting by their
illustrious presence; the Glenbervies made the same complaint. From Aix to Liège we had the
company of a very pleasant, well-informed citizen of Liège (indeed, all the military classes
in Germany seem well informed), who in pathetic terms lamented his lot. In the cutting up of
this grand continental dish Prussia has had Benjamin's mess in this part of the country. We
have his troops, with few exceptions, forming a cordon within the Rhine from Saarbruck to Liège,
and they are by no means popular. We have clothed them, and all the people feed them, besides
having been called upon for contributions. It is flattering to see the high respect shown to
the British character, which increases as opportunities occur of observing its effects. If
we were like the people of Bruxelles (said our Liègeois) all would be well; we should rejoice
in having a garrison. British troops, so far from exacting contributions or demanding free
quarters, pay for everything, are beloved by the people, and money circulates, whereas under
the Prussian government we pay all, are put to all manner of inconvenience, and receive neither
thanks nor satisfaction. They appear to have been peculiarly unfortunate in all wars. Poor
Liège has received a thump from one, a kick from another, and been robbed by a third. The Austrians
have burnt their Suburbs, the Republicans sold their national and ecclesiastical Estates, and
lately they have had the pleasure of being pillaged by French Marshals and satisfying the voracious
appetite of the Crown Prince, who put them to an expense of 150,000 frs. in providing his table
for 7 weeks, and when they hinted that they thought it but fair their Royal visitor should
pay for his own dinners, he departed, leaving his bills unpaid. He seems to have been secreting
himself here like a Cat in a barn watching the motions of the mice, acting solely from interested
motives, and ready to pounce upon whatever might be safely turned to his own advantage. When
the French retreated out of Holland the Duke of Tarentum[88] did the poor people at Liège the
honour of making their town a point in the line of his march. He stopped one night, and because
the inhabitants did not illuminate and express great joy at his illustrious presence he demanded
an immediate contribution of 300,000 frs., 150,000 of which were paid the next morning. Luckily
the Allies appeared towards Noon, and I hope his Grace will not get the remainder.

In the character of almost all these French military leaders there are such blots and stains
that one sickens at the thought of being of the same species. It would be endless to recount
the acts of rapacity committed by all these engines of Imperial France; conscious that their
throne might one day fall, they lost no time in amassing wealth, and pillage was the watchword
from the Cathedral to the Cottage. Lisle is in the hands of the French, and by their own account
the people have suffered every species of misery, yet they are strong for Napoleon, Garrison
and Citizen, and I cannot find that they ever vented their feelings in any other way than in
nicknaming their General Maison[89] (a cruel Tyrant who destroyed all their suburbs under pretence
they might be in the way in case of a siege, which might have been done in a day had the Allies
ever thought of such a thing); he is in consequence called General Brise Maison, and then the
foolish people laugh and cry, "Que c'est bon cela," think they have done a great feat and submit
like lambs. The country from Liège to Brussels wears the same Anglicised face--hedgerows and
trees without any leading features. Bruxelles is a nice town--and really it was a gratification
in passing the gate to see a fat John Bull keeping guard with his red coat. The Garrison consists
of about 3,000, amongst the rest a regiment of Highlanders whose dress is the marvel of the
people. A French Lady who came with us from Liège had seen some and expressed her utter surprise,
and as if she was speaking to one who doubted the fact, she repeated, "C'est vrai! actuellement
rien qu'un petit Jupon--mais comment!" and then she lifted her eyes and hands and reiterated,
"petit jupon--et comment," concluding, as if she almost doubted the evidence of her own senses,
"Je les ai vus moi-même."

At Bruxelles at least we expected to see a numerous and genteel Table d'hôte, and in this hope
took up our quarters at a magnificent Hotel in the Place Royale--very fine indeed, and very
full of English, much too full, for though we saw a few in the passages, or eyed them as they
peeped out of their doors, and sat down with about 15 or 20 at table, "They spoke not, they
moved not, they looked not around." By dint of asking for salt and mustard, and giving my next
neighbour as much trouble as I could to show I had a tongue which I should be happy to use,
we towards the 3rd Act of the Entertainment began to talk, and ascended gradually from the
meats to the wines (here, it is true, there was some prolixity), and then to other subjects
pretty well, though the burthen of my companion's song was that "the French were all d----
d rascals and ought to be well licked." We tried the Play; there we found a few English officers
and one English lady, few of any other nation, not 50 altogether, in a house dismal and dirty.
There is a delightful sort of wood and promenade called the Park....

CHAPTER V

THE LOW COUNTRIES

Dutch arks--Walcheren memories--Earth-covered ships--Cossacks and keys--Brother alleys--Bergen
op Zoom--Cossack shopping--Goat curricles--Treckschuyt travelling--Booksellers' shops.

After Brussels the travellers proceeded to Holland, and saw Antwerp on their way. They had
now gone beyond the country which Napoleon's victories had made famous, and the chief military
interest of the country through which they passed, just eleven months before Waterloo, was
derived from two very melancholy events for an Englishman to record--the Walcheren Expedition
and the storming of Bergen op Zoom.

LETTER XII

BERGEN OP ZOOM, July 31st.

...On leaving Bruxelles the country immediately loses its character, and becomes entirely Dutch,
by which we exchange for the better, leaving dirty floors, houses, and coaches for as much
cleanliness as soap and water can produce; I only regret from my experience of last night that
they should be so much occupied in washing as to forget that drying is also a luxury, but there
is no such novelty in this country, and so much to be seen that I have no time to catch cold.
Our Diligence from Bruxelles held 10 people inside and 3 in front, and we had all ample elbow
room; it was large, as you may suppose, as everything else in Holland is from top to bottom.
Hats, Coats, breeches, pipes, horns, cows--are all gigantic, and so are the dogs, and because
the poor things happen to be so, they harness a parcel of them together and breed them up to
draw fish-carts. I yesterday met a man driving four-in-hand; in turning a corner and meeting
three of these open-mouthed Mastiffs panting and pulling, you might almost fancy it was Cerberus
drawing the Chariot of Proserpine--but I am wandering from the Diligence, which deserves some
description. It resembled a little Theatre more than a coach, with front boxes, pit, &c., lined
with common velvet. We had a curious collection of passengers. Opposite to me sat a prize thoroughbred
Dutch woman as clean and tidy as she was ugly and phlegmatic, with a close-plaited cap, unruffled
white shawl, and golden cross suspended from her neck. I took a sketch while she stared me
in the face unconscious of the honor conferred. By her side sat a French woman crowned with
the lofty towers of an Oldenburg Bonnet. By my side a spruce, pretty, Englishwoman, whom I
somehow or other suspected had been serving with his Britannic Majesty's troops now occupying
Belgium. She had on her right hand a huge Brabanter who spoke English, and had acquired, I
have no doubt, a few additional pounds of fat by living in London. Edward sat behind me in
a line with the Brabanter's wife and a Dutch peasant. These, with two or three minor characters,
completed our cargo, and away we went on the finest road in the world towards Antwerp between
a triple row of Abeles and poplars, and skirting the bank of a fine canal upon which floated
a fleet of Kuyp's barks, and by which grazed Paul Potter's oxen--the whole road was, in truth,
a gallery of the Flemish school. By the door of every ale-house a living group from Teniers
and Ostade, with here and there bits from Berghem and Hobbema, &c. Halfway between Bruxelles
and Antwerp is Malines. I had began to fear that I had lost my powers of observation, and was,
therefore, no longer struck with the external appearance of the towns--in fact, that the novelty
was gone, and that my eyes were too much familiarised with such objects to notice them. Happily
Malines undeceived me, and convinced me I was still fully alive to whatever had any real peculiarity
of character to entitle it to notice. With the exception of the villages on the Rhine, all
the towns and houses I had seen lately had little to recommend them, and were like half the
people in the world, possessed of no character of their own, their doors and windows like all
other doors and windows, but Malines had doors and windows of its own, and seemed to take a
pride in exhibiting its own little queer originalities; in every house was a different idea.
The people were of a piece with their dwellings; I could almost fancy I was permitted to inspect
the toys of some Brobdignag baby who washed, cleaned, and combed the beings before me every
morning and locked them up in their separate boxes every evening. When the nice green doors
of the nice painted houses opened, I bethought me of the Dutch ark you bought for Owen, and
was prepared to make my best bow to Noah and his wife, who I expected to step forth with Ham
and Japhet, and all the birds and beasts behind them.

We approached Antwerp as the sun was setting behind its beautiful Cathedral and shining upon
the pennants of the fleet which Bonaparte has kindly built for the accommodation of the allied
powers. The Antwerpers had a well-arranged promenade and tea garden, &c., about a mile from
the house, well wooded. These, with all the houses in the suburbs, the French entirely destroyed,
leaving not a wreck behind. I must acquit them of wanton cruelty here, however, as in sieges
these devastations are necessary. We passed thro' a complete course of fortifications, and
then entered what, from all I can perceive, is the best town I have seen on the continent.

It is a mass of fine streets, fine houses, and fine churches; the Tower of the Cathedral is
quite a Bijou 620 steps in height! but the ascent was well rewarded; from thence a very respectable
tour of about 30 miles in every direction may be accomplished. Walcheren and Lillo (the celebrated
fort which prevented our ascending the Scheld) were visible without any difficulty, with Cadsand
and all the well-known names of that silly expedition,[90] rendered apparently more silly by
seeing how impossible it would have been to have taken Antwerp unless by a regular siege, which
might have been of endless duration; we might have bombarded the basons in which the men-of-war
were deposited, and with about as much success as Sir Thos. Graham,[91] who, after expending
a mint of money in bombs and powders, in the course of two days contrived to send about half
a dozen shells on board the line of battleships. I was on board the Albania, which had suffered
the most. The extent of her damage was two shells which passed thro' the decks, exploding without
much mischief, and a round-shot which shivered a quarter gallery and then fell on the ice--indeed,
bombarding vessels, which are objects so comparatively small, is something like attempting
to shoot wild ducks on Radnor Mere by firing over their heads with ball in hopes that in its
descent it may come in contact with the bird's head.

About a dozen Gun Brigs were sunk, all of which we saw with their masts above the water; a
few houses near the Bason were shattered, and about 20 Townsmen killed. The country round Antwerp
is quite flat, and appears, with the exception of 2 or 3 miles round the town, a perfect wood;
fancy such a wood with the Scheldt winding through it, several roads radiating in lines straight
as arrows, with here and there a steeple breaking the horizontal line, and you may suppose
yourself at the top of the Cathedral. The Town is large, with the river washing the whole of
one side; on the south are the dockyards, with rope walks and everything in fine style; the
destruction of these might have been practicable, as they are rather beyond the line of immediate
fortifications, but probably they have works for their express protection, and the advantage
gained must have been in proportion to the stores and vessels building. I counted 16 or 17
ships of the line on the Stocks, 2 or 3 of 120 Guns. In the Scheldt floated 13 in a state of
apparent equipment; in the basons 9--all of the line--thus completing a fleet of 39 fine Ships,
besides a few frigates and Gun Brigs innumerable--of these only two were Dutch.

It was curious to see such a fleet, and some of them were actually worn out, the utmost extent
of whose naval career had been an expedition to Flushing. On descending the Spire, we examined
the Carillons, which are a Gamut of chiming bells of all sizes--the total number for them and
the Church is 82; by a clock work they play every 7 minutes, so that the neighbourhood of the
Cathedral is a scene of perpetual harmony; they can also be played by hand. Most of the churches
in this country have them. Our Guards in marching into Alkmaar were surprised and gratified
in hearing the church bells strike up "God Save the King." There are several good churches
in the town, and once all were decorated with the works of Rubens, which Napoleon carried off.
I should, however, be perfectly satisfied with a selection from the remainder. I saw a Vandyck
on the subject of our Saviour recommending the Virgin Mary to St. John, which was incomparable;
it quite haunts me at this moment, and, however horrible the effect of the bleeding figure
on the Cross, I do not wish to lose the impression. The Dutch have carried the art of carving
in wood to a most extraordinary pitch of perfection. I am surprised it has not been more spoken
of; some of their pulpits are really quite marvellous. Religion increases and, I think, improves.
There is less mummery here than at Aix and some other places I have lately seen, with the exception
of a few little Saviours in powdered wigs and gilt satin and muslin frocks, and a very singular
figure as large as life, supposed to represent the deposition in the holy sepulchre, which
was covered by a shroud of worsted gauze, studded over with enormous artificial flowers and
tinsel like a Lady's court dress.

Wherever we went, at whatever hour, Mass was performing to good congregations. The women here
all dress in long black shawls, or, rather, hooded wrappers, which, as they knelt before their
confessional boxes, were extremely appropriate and solemn. The English have a church here for
the garrison; it is simplicity itself. They have even removed several fine pictures, the rooms
having been a sort of museum--the Vandyck I alluded to among the rest....

In our morning's tour we, of course, visited the celebrated basons for the men-of-war. "Still
harping upon these ships," I can fancy you exclaiming; "when will he have done with them?"
You must bear it patiently. It was on account of these said basons, in a great measure, that
I came to Antwerp, so you must endure their birth, parentage, and education.

There are two Basons, one calculated for 16, the other for 30 sail of the line; they are simple
excavations. Nature never thought of such a thing, and gave no helping hand. It was Napoleon's
work from first to last; the labour and expense must have been enormous. They open by dock
gates immediately into the Scheldt, from whence each ship can proceed armed and fitted cap
à pie (if she dares) to fight the English. They were begun and finished in two years, but improvements
were suggested, and there is no knowing what more the Emperor intended to do. Precautions had
been taken during the bombardment to preserve the Ships. For instance, all the decks were propped
up by a number of spars, by which means if a bomb fell it did no other mischief than forcing
its way through and carrying all before its immediate course, whereas without the props it
might have shaken the timbers and weakened the access considerably. In every ship also were
2 cartloads of earth, to throw over any inflammable substance which might have fallen on board.
From this mole hill of a truth was engendered a mountainous falsehood for home consumption.
I read in the English Papers of the time that the French had scuttled their ships to the level
of the water, and then covered them over with earth, which was carefully sodded!! Sir Thos.
Graham's batteries were very near the basons, half-way between the village of Muxham, about
2 miles from the town and the nearest French battery. From one of the latter we had a perfect
conception of the whole business. Without saying a word about my extreme partiality and fears
for the safety of No. 1, and probable inconvenience which might ensue from loss of said No.
1 to Nos. 2, 3 and 4, I wonder much whether my curiosity would have allowed me to sleep quite
in the back ground. The sight must from this point have been superb, as it was the intention
to throw the bombs over this battery so as to make them fall in the bason amongst the ducks.
The top of the Cathedral would have been perfection, but the Governor most vexatiously kept
the keys....

We found abundance of British troops here, remnants of all the regiments who had survived the
storming of Bergen op Zoom, about 3 or 4,000.... They have no reason to complain of their quarters,
though it is possible many of them may be of the same opinion with a soldier of the Guards,
who, in reply to my question of "How do you like Antwerp?" said with great earnestness, "I
like St. James's Park a great deal better." I observed several ladies with their "petits chapeaux,"
and I must do them the justice to say they are much handsomer than the French, German, or Dutch....
English Curricles, coaches, and Chariots are to be seen, and some few English horses, which
are certainly better calculated for speed and pleasant driving than the heavy breed of this
country. Flanders Mares--as Henry VIII. tells us by comparing his queen to one--have never
been remarkable for elegance and activity, and I was much entertained in seeing an Englishman
break in a couple of these for a Tandem.

...At our Table d'hôte, where we met nothing but English merchants, I heard the report of the
day that Belgium was to be a sort of independent state, under the Prince of Orange's government,
according to its old laws and customs, and that he was to hold a court at Bruxelles.... The
Prince of Orange is now in fact gone to make his public entrance into Bruxelles....

There is a custom that the key of the town should be presented to the possessor or Governor
of the Town on a magnificent silver-gilt plate. When the Cossack chief came, as usual, the
key was offered, which the good, simple man quietly took, put into his pocket, and forgot to
return. When I saw the dish, the man told me this anecdote, and lamented wofully the loss of
his key, which may possibly in future turn the lock of some dirty cupboard or other on the
banks of the Don. It seems these Cossacks were immensely rich. Latterly I have been assured
they could not fight had they been inclined, from the excessive height of their saddles and
weight of their clothes; on the one they could scarcely sit, and with the others they could
scarcely walk. They had always 3 or 4 Coats or coverings, and in the folds of these were unkennelled
1,330 Napoleons on one of them who happened to die at Bruxelles.

We quitted Antwerp after dinner yesterday for Bergen op Zoom by a new sort of conveyance; by
way of variety we "voitured" it, viz., hired a carriage, driver, and horses for Breda on our
way to Amsterdam. It was a nice sort of Gig Phaeton, with comfortable seats for 4, the Driver
on the front bench. I fear I must retract what I said in the beginning of this letter, as to
the decided change in houses and people here. It was most conspicuous about Malines, but on
this road there was nothing remarkable one way or the other.

Our road was, however, Dutch throughout. Upon a sort of raised dyke, between a monotonous avenue
of stunted willows, did we jog gently on, with nothing to relieve the eye but here and there
a windmill or a farm. On our left we saw, as far as eye could reach, the Swamp (or I scarcely
know what to call it), which fills up the spaces between the Main and South Beveland, and it
almost gave me the Walcheren fever to look at it. The Evening Gun of Flushing saluted the Sun
as he sank to rest behind these muddy isles, and we begun to fear, as night drew on, that we
should have to take up our night's lodging in the Gig, for though he knew that the gates of
the Fortress were closed at 9, our sturdy Dutchman moved not a peg the faster. However, we
escaped the evil, and 10 minutes before 9 we passed the drawbridge of the ditch leading to
the Antwerp gate, which had been the grave of the 1st Column of Guards, led by General Cooke,
on the 8th March....

                                     NOTE.

     Storming of Bergen op Zoom, March 8, 1814.--Sir Thomas Graham had
     landed 6,000 men on October 7, 1813, in S. Beveland, in order to
     combine with the Prussians to drive the French from Holland.

     On March 8, 1814, he led 4,000 British troops against Bergen op
     Zoom. They were formed into four columns, of which two were to
     attack the fortifications at different points; the third to make a
     false attack; the fourth to attack the entrance of the harbour,
     which is fordable at low water.

     The first, led by Major-General Cooke, incurred some delay in
     passing the ditch on the ice, but at length established itself on
     the rampart.

     The right column, under Major-General Skerret and Brigadier-General
     Gore, had forced their way into the body of the place, but the fall
     of General Gore and the dangerous wounds of Skerret caused the
     column to fall into disorder and suffer great loss in killed,
     wounded, and prisoners. The centre column was driven back by the
     heavy fire of the place, but re-formed and marched round to join
     General Cooke. At daybreak the enemy turned the guns of the place
     on the unprotected rampart and much loss and confusion ensued.
     General Cooke, despairing of success, directed the retreat of the
     Guards, and, finding it impossible to withdraw his weak battalions,
     he saved the lives of his remaining men by surrender.

     The Governor of Bergen op Zoom agreed to a suspension of
     hostilities for an exchange of prisoners. The killed were computed
     at 300, prisoners, 1,800.--ED.

LETTER XIII.

HAGUE, August 4, 1814.

Sterne pities the man who could go from Dan to Beersheba and say that all was barren, and I
must pity the man who travels from Bergen op Zoom to Amsterdam and says that Holland, with
all its flatness, is not worth visiting.

    "Oh Willow, Willow, Willow, here
     Each stands bowing to another,
     And every Alley finds its brother."

Nature never abhorred a vacuum more than she herself is abhorred by these Dutchmen; here rivers
run above their levels and cattle feed where fishes were by nature intended to swim. Hogarth's
line of beauty is unknown in Holland. No line can be either beautiful or palatable except that
which (defined mathematically) is the shortest that can be drawn between two given points.
But I have yet a great deal to say before I come to these roads. I left you at Bergen op Zoom,
just arrived. On Sunday morning, after a little enquiry, we were glad to find there was a Protestant
French Church in the town, and thither we went. I cannot say much for the sermon; it was on
I Cor. vii. 20, in which a great deal of French display of vehemence and action made up in
some degree for a feeble prolixity of words; in one part, however, he made an appeal, which
has at least had the effect of eloquence and certainly came home to the heart. He described
the miseries the country had so long endured and the happy change which had now taken place.
But while he blest the change he lamented the tears which must be shed from the fatal effects
of the war which produced it; and then turning to us, whom he perceived to be Englishmen, he
proceeded: "It is for us to lament the sad disaster which this town was doomed to witness in
the loss of our friends (our Compatriots, I may say), who shed their blood for the restoration
of our liberties." After church I went into the vestry to tell him who and what I was. As an
Englishman he shook me by the hand, and when he understood I was a Protestant minister he shook
it again. Had he asked me to dine I should have accepted his invitation, but unluckily he lost
my company by paying what he conceived to be a greater compliment. Like an Indian warrior,
he offered the calumet of peace and begged I would go home and smoke with him. Now, I would
have gone through a good deal to have had some conversation with him, but really on one of
the hottest days of July, when I was anxious, moreover, to inspect the fortification, smoking
would not do, and taking our leave he sent his schoolmaster, an intelligent man who had a brother
a Captain in one of our assaulting regiments, to be our guide and tell the melancholy tale....
And now let me see if I can make that clear to you which has never been made clear to anybody
yet. "At 10 o'clock," said our guide, "I was at supper with a little party, some French officers
being present; about half after 10 some musket shots were heard; this was no uncommon sound
and we took no notice; however, it rather increased, and the French sent a sergeant to know
the cause, and remained chatting quietly. In about ten minutes in burst the sergeant, 'Vite,
vite, à vos portes! Les Anglais sont dans la ville.'" I need not add the party broke up in
a hurry; our Guide sallied forth with the rest, and went on the Ramparts for curiosity, but
whilst he was gratifying this passion, on a pitch dark night, down drops a man who stood near
him, and whiz flew some bullets, upon which he took to his heels, got home, and saw no more;
indeed, had he been inclined it would have been impossible, for Patrols paraded the streets
and shot every one who was not a French soldier. Thus far our schoolmaster was an eye-witness;
for the remainder you must trust to my account from as minute an enquiry as I could make upon
the spot with Sir T. Graham's dispatches in my hand, which threw very little light upon the
subject.

The Ladies are elegant and apparently well-behaved, with all the liveliness of the French.
We met with no adventures till we came to a river; here a regiment of Dutch cavalry impeded
our progress and luckily gave us time to get our breakfast; the next river brought us in contact
with a detachment of Artillery waggons. Our Diligence consisted of a Machine with 6 seats inside,
a cabriolet in which sat Edward and myself, on a little seat before us the driver with his
legs dangling for want of a footboard. His patience had been rather put to the test by the
cavalry, but the Artillery quite upset him, and on getting entangled amongst their train, uttering
two of the French words he had learnt from his servitude under the Emperor, viz., "sacré bleu,"
he popped his pipe into his pocket, threw the reins into my hands, and jumped down to request
the Officer's permission to pass. Under existing circumstances I confess I did not much like
the responsibility of the charge committed to me, but fortunately our conductor soon returned
with permission to pass. We got out while he drove his 4 in hand quietly into the boat, every
cranny of which was filled up by soldiers and artillery horses, which, as if to shew off the
pomp of war, capered and reared before our sedate steeds, who only wanted pipes in their mouths
to rival the impenetrable gravity of their driver. It is necessary to cross the Waal before
you get to Gorum. When we got to the bank not a boat was to be had. With some difficulty at
last our Coachman procured a miserable punt with a boy. What with our Trunks and passengers
we were quite enough for it; indeed, the female part of our crew hesitated for some time; and
well they might, for no sooner had we shoved from the shore than a leak was discovered which
threatened serious consequences. It gained rapidly; the old Lady above mentioned was in despair,
and sat with her thumb crammed over the spouting orifice the whole time, while a young man
baled with his shoes as fast as possible. This was not all. The Stream carried us down, and
our driver--no great sailor--caught crabs at every other pull; then we got upon a bank. Really
I begun to think it would be quite as well to be safe now, but as for fear, it was out of the
question, the lamentations of the women, and terrors of the old lady in particular, kept us
quite in Spirits. The last event was the total overthrow of the driver by a sudden bump against
the bank. Poor fellow! he was not only well drenched, but his head cut by falling against the
seat of the boat in his overturn. Though every nerve vibrated with compassion, it was quite
impossible to avoid laughing. Luckily a glass of vinegar well rubbed upon the wound soon set
him to rights and good humor. Gorum and Naard were the last two towns which the French retained,
and poor Gorum suffered sadly. The Suburbs, Tea gardens, avenues, walks, &c., were all destroyed
by the French to prevent the Prussians coming in, and their houses and heads knocked about
with shot and shells to drive the French out. Luckily the French listened to the entreaties
of the people and capitulated.

I wish they would bombard Knutsford or Macclesfield or some of our Towns for an hour or two,
just to shew them what war is. Bang, whiz, down comes a shell and away goes a house. War and
slavery have quite reconciled the Dutch to the abdication of Napoleon. In answer to the question,
"Êtes vous content de ces changements?" you meet with no doubtful shrug of the shoulders, no
ambiguous "mais que, oui"; an instantaneous extra whiff of satisfaction is puffed forth, accompanied
with the synonimous terms, "Napoleon et Diable." On leaving Gorum we acquired an accession
of passengers--a protestant clergyman and a fat man, who looked much like a conjurer or alchymist.
A protestant clergyman in Holland may be known by his dress--a cocked hat of a peculiar model
covers a lank head of unpowdered hair. Nothing white appears throughout but the pipe in his
mouth and cravat round his neck, a long black coat down to his ancles, with black worsted stockings
and gold-headed cane. I must say they do not look over and above agreeable, and as they hate
all innovations few have learnt French, so that I have been foiled in most of my attempts at
conversation.

From Gorum to Utrecht the country improves; we had hitherto travelled sometimes on Dyke tops,
sometimes in Dyke bottoms which only required the efforts of a few able-bodied rats to let
the water in upon us. It is quite surprising to see on what a precarious tenure Holland is
held. Take but a Dyke away, overturn one dam, and see what discord follows--and this does sometimes
happen. In 1809 the Ice broke through near Gorum and carried away countless houses, men, cattle,
&c. I have said the country improved, i.e., we got into a land of villas and Trees, some of
them beautifully laid out, and all, stable included, bright and clean as possible. Each, too,
has its Summer house perched by the Canal side and (the Evening being fine) well filled with
parties of ladies and gentlemen. The road for many miles was ornamented with wooden triumphal
arches and hung with festoons of flowers, &c., as a compliment to the Emperor Alexander, who
passed about a month ago....

...We arrived at Amsterdam on Monday night; here, again, all was new. Hitherto we had rode
in Carriages of various descriptions with wheels, but in Amsterdam you have them without wheels,
drawn by a fine horse and driven by a man who walks by the side with his long reins....

But what delighted me more than anything else was the prospect of suiting Owen and Mary exactly.
What think you of a Goat Curricle? Goats are regularly trained for draught, and are the prettiest
things in the world, trotting in neat harness with two or three children. I shall, if I have
time at Rotterdam, see if I can get a pair. Buonaparte was so delighted with them that he ordered
4 for the King of Rome. Amsterdam is a very large, gloomy town, intersected in all directions
by water, monotonous in the extreme. Had I not been convinced by the evidence of my senses
in looking down from a house top on several objects I had visited in different parts of the
town, I should have suspected that our Laquais de place had amused himself by walking up and
down the same street where Canals with trees on each side do not keep the houses asunder; high
buildings and narrow streets of dark, small brown brick constitute the character of the town,
and, having seen one, you have seen the whole. In the course of my walk I heard that two or
three Englishmen were settled in the town. I called on one, the Revd. Mr. Lowe, with little
of the Englishman left but the language. He had been there 30 years and held a Presbyterian
Church. I asked him if Napoleon troubled the English settlers during the war. He said that,
provided they conformed quickly to the laws and regulations, they experienced no persecution.
Upon my asking if it was at all necessary to conceal his extraction, he exclaimed, "What, conceal
my extraction, deny my country? Not for all the Emperors in the world. No, I have too much
conscience and independence. To be sure, I was obliged by law to pray for the health and prosperity
of Buonaparte every Sunday. But what signified that? God Almighty understood very well what
I meant, and that I heartily wished his death all the time." By long residence in Holland,
he had adopted a good portion of Dutch impenetrability and slowness. He assured us nothing
short of a week could give us the least chance of seeing the curiosities of Amsterdam, and
when I told him that we were (according to our common custom of early rising) to be in North
Holland by 6 o'clock in the morning, and had seen all by 11 o'clock which occupies a Dutchman's
whole day, and gave him a few instances of our mode of operation, he threw himself back, raised
his cocked hat to examine us more thoroughly, put his arms akimbo and exclaimed, "How do you
support human nature. It must expire under such fatigue," and I found it quite impossible to
convince him that my health for the last month had been infinitely better than usual. But,
after all, I fear you will find me growing old. I had a compliment paid to my grey hairs, in
coming from Utrecht, which must be mentioned. The fat Alchymist, above mentioned, squeezed
himself into Edward's place in the Diligence; on remonstrating to a young Dutch gentleman who
spoke French, he replied, "Que c'était vraiment impoli mais que c'était un viellard à qui on
devait céder quelque chose, et je vous assure, Monsieur, comme vous êtes aussi un peu agé si
vous aviez pris ma place je vous l'aurais cédé." In Amsterdam there is little to be seen but
the Palais, in which there is a splendid collection of Flemish pictures--two or three of the
finest of Rembrandt--and without exception the most splendid room I have seen in Europe. It
is the great Hall of audience; King Louis[92] has fitted up everything in grand style. We went
over what the Dutchmen cry up as an object which it would be unpardonable not to see--the Felix
meritus, a sort of Lecture room with some wretched museums attached. I found nothing to interest
me but a capital figure of a Dutchman, who came also to see the wonders. Nothing could exceed
his attitudes as he looked with an eye of incredulity whilst they explained a planetarium,
examined with an air of conscious safety a snake corked up in a bottle, and ogled with terror
a skeleton which grinned at him out of his case. I walked round and tried his perspective in
all directions, and rather blushed when, with treacherous condescension, I requested him to
use my Glass that I might see how he looked peeping thro' a Telescope. This is such a Museum
as will furnish me with samples of oddities for the rest of my life.

LETTER XIV.

August 6, 1814.

Luckily we have a commodious cabin in the Trechschuyt, and no smoke or other intruders, so
where I finished my last I will begin another.

As to the country, a peep once an hour will be sufficient; I will look out of the window and
give you the result--five plover, a few fat cows, a good many rushes, and a canal bridge. At
Amsterdam we dined at a regular Dutch table d'hôte; about 20 people, all of them eaters, few
talkers; the quantity of vegetables consumed was quite surprising. With the last dish a boy
came round with pipes and hot coals, which were soon followed by a tremendous explosion of
Tobacco from a double line of smokers, and as if the simple operation of puffing in and puffing
out was too much for these drowsy operators, many of them leaned back in their chairs, put
their hands in their breeches pockets, shut their eyes, and carried on the war with one end
of the pipe in their mouths and the other leaning on their plates. On Wednesday, Aug. 3rd,
we crossed the Gulf by sun rise on a little tour into North Holland, to see the Village of
Brock and Saardam, where the house in which the Czar Peter worked still exists. We landed at
Buiksloot, from whence carriages are hired to different parts of the country. From Breda to
Amsterdam they varied the Diligences according to the number of travellers; sometimes we had
a coach and four, and then a machine and three, and as our number diminished we were forwarded
the last stage or two in a vehicle perfectly nondescript with two horses; it was a sort of
cart painted white, hung upon springs, with an awning, but it was reserved for this morning
to see us in a carriage far beyond anything before seen or heard of. I am inclined to think
it must have been the identical equipage (for it was a little the worse for wear) which the
fairy produced from the gourd for the service of Cinderella--a sort of Phaeton lined with red
flowered velvet, the whole moulding beautifully carved and gilt, the panels well painted with
flowers, birds, urns, &c., the wheels red and gold. It contained two seats for four persons,
and a coach box painted, carved, and gilt like the body of the carriage; the whole was in a
Lilliput style drawn by two gigantic black horses, whose tails reached above the level of our
heads. It was exactly suited to the place where we were going, the village of Brock, which,
like our vehicle, was unlike anything I had seen before. I have, in former letters, talked
of Dutch cleanliness and neatness, but what is all I have said compared with Brock? Even the
people have their jokes upon its superiority in this particular, and assert that the inhabitants
actually wash and scrub their wood before they put it on the fire. Lady Penrhyn's cottages
must yield the palm, they are only internally washed and painted, but in Brock, Tops and bottoms,
Outside and in, bricks and all, are constantly under the discipline of the paint brush, and
as if Nature was not sufficiently clean in her operations, the stems of several of their trees
were white washed too! In fact, nothing seemed to escape--the Milk pails were either burnished
brass or painted buckets, and the little straw baskets the women carried in their hands came
in for their share of blue, red, or green. They have such a dread of dirt, that entrance is
limited to the back door only, the opening of the front door being reserved for grand occasions,
such as weddings, funerals, &c. It is not accessible by carriages and horses, on account of
several canals which intersect it; these sometimes widen, and in one part the houses stand
round a pretty little lake. I can give you no better idea of the scene than a Chinese paper,
whose neat summer houses and painted boats are all mixed together. Most houses have each a
separate garden, kept in style equally clean. I really believe my own dusty shoes were the
most impure things in the whole village.

We returned to Buiksloot and then proceeded to Saardam, on the top of a Dyke, which keeps the
sea from inundating the vast levels of North Holland. Saardam might be held up as the pattern
of neatness had I not visited Brock first; as it is, I can only say that, though four times
as large, it seems to be its rival in cleanliness and paint. The number of windmills is quite
astonishing; it would require an army of Don Quixotes. I counted myself upwards of 130 in and
close to the town; they say there are 1,200. Windmills seem great favourites with the Dutch.
In the Diligence near Utrecht my neighbour roused me by a sudden exclamation, "Oh la vue superbe!"
I looked, and beheld 14 of them in a Dyke! and yesterday, on asking the Laquais de place if
we should see anything curious at Saardam besides the Czar's house, he replied, "Oh que, oui--beaucoup
de Moulins!" Peter the Great's house is a small wooden cottage close to the town, remarkable
for nothing but having been his.

