3
      II.  The Hammerlock                                7
     III.  The Voyage                                   19
      IV.  The Village by the Lagoon                    28
       V.  A Tropical River                             38
      VI.  The Village in the Jungle                    44
     VII.  The Trail                                    56
    VIII.  Panama                                       61
      IX.  Northward Ho!                                76

Part II.--THE GOLDEN CITY

       X.  The Golden City                              87
      XI.  I Make Twenty-five Dollars                  101
     XII.  Talbot Deserts                              115
    XIII.  Up-River                                    129

Part III.--THE MINES

     XIV.  Sutter's Fort                               141
      XV.  The Gold Trail                              148
     XVI.  The First Gold                              164
    XVII.  The Diggings                                170
   XVIII.  Beginnings of Government                    176
     XIX.  Sunday at Hangman's Gulch                   185
      XX.  The Gold Washers                            192
     XXI.  We Leave the Diggings                       203
    XXII.  The Strike                                  210
   XXIII.  The Camp on the Porcupine                   216
    XXIV.  The Indians                                 221
     XXV.  Battle                                      235
    XXVI.  We Send Out Our Treasure                    244
   XXVII.  The Robbery                                 249
  XXVIII.  The Bully                                   255
    XXIX.  The Challenge                               272
     XXX.  The Fight                                   284
    XXXI.  The Express Messenger                       291
   XXXII.  Italian Bar                                 298
  XXXIII.  The Overland Immigrants                     312
   XXXIV.  The Prisoners                               320
    XXXV.  The Trial                                   327
   XXXVI.  The Rule of the Lawless                     333
  XXXVII.  The Last Straw                              342
 XXXVIII.  The Vigilantes                              351
   XXXIX.  The Vigilantes (continued)                  359

Part IV.--The Law

      XL.  The Rains                                   371
     XLI.  We Go Out                                   380
    XLII.  San Francisco Again                         392
   XLIII.  The Golden Web                              404
    XLIV.  Plutocrats!                                 414
     XLV.  The Catastrophe                             425
    XLVI.  The Vision                                  433

ILLUSTRATIONS

  "'I told you you couldn't lick me,' said he"
                                                 Frontispiece

  "'You hounds!' he roared. 'Don't you dare try
  to sneak off!'"                                          78

  "The big man whirled to the floor"                      286

  "We marched our prisoner in double-quick
  time to the agreed rendezvous"                          360

PART I

PANAMA

GOLD

CHAPTER I

OH, SUSANNAH!

Somewhere in this book I must write a paragraph exclusively about myself. The fact that in
the outcome of all these stirring events I have ended as a mere bookkeeper is perhaps a good
reason why one paragraph will be enough. In my youth I had dreams a-plenty; but the event and
the peculiar twist of my own temperament prevented their fulfilment. Perhaps in a more squeamish
age--and yet that is not fair, either, to the men whose destinies I am trying to record. Suffice
it then that of these men I have been the friend and companion, of these occasions I have been
a part, and that the very lacks and reservations of my own character that have kept me to a
subordinate position and a little garden have probably made me the better spectator. Which
is a longer paragraph about myself than I had purposed writing.

Therefore I will pass over briefly the various reasons, romantic and practical, why I decided
to join the gold rush to California in the year 1849. It was in the air; and I was then of
a romantic and adventurous disposition.

The first news of the gold discovery filtered to us in a roundabout way through vessels to
the Sandwich Islands, and then appeared again in the columns of some Baltimore paper. Everybody
laughed at the rumour; but everybody remembered it. The land was infinitely remote; and then,
as now, romance increases as the square of the distance. There might well be gold there; but
more authentic were the reports of fleas, rawhides, and a dried-up coast. Minstrel shows made
a good deal of fun of it all, I remember. Then, when we were of a broad grin, came the publication
of the letter written by Governor Mason to the War Department. That was a sober official document,
and had to be believed, but it read like a fairy tale. And he then went on to report in detail
big nuggets and big washings, mentioning men, places, dates, in a circumstantial manner that
carried conviction.

Our broad grins faded. The minstrels' jokes changed colour. As I look back, it seems to me
that I can almost see with the physical eye the broad restless upheaval beneath the surface
of all society. The Mexican war was just over, and the veterans--young veterans all--filled
with the spirit of adventure turned eagerly toward this glittering new emprise. Out in the
small villages, on the small farms, the news was talked over seriously, almost without excitement,
as offering a possible means of lifting the burden war had laid. Families strained their resources,
mortgaged their possessions, to equip and send their single strongest members to make the common
fortune.

Then came the song that caught the popular ear; and the rush was on. Most great movements are
done to song, generally commonplace. It was so in this instance. Oh, Susannah! or rather a
modification of the original made to fit the occasion, first sung in some minstrel show, ran
like fire in the tinder of men's excited hopes. From every stage, on every street corner, in
every restaurant and hotel it was sung, played, and whistled. At the sound of its first notes
the audience always sprang to its feet and cheered like mad.

The desire to go to El Dorado was universal, and almost irresistible. The ability to go was
much more circumscribed. For one thing, it cost a good deal of money; and that was where I
bogged down at the first pull. Then I suppose a majority did have ties of family, business
or other responsibilities impossible to shake off. However, we all joined one or more of the
various clubs formed for the purpose of getting at least some of their members to California;
and discussed heatedly the merits of the different routes; and went into minute and fascinating
details as to processes of which we knew less than nothing; and sang Oh, Susannah! and talked
ourselves into a glorified fever of excitement; and went home with our heads in the clouds.
Once in a great while some of these clubs came to something--as a body I mean; for individual
members were constantly working themselves up the summit of resolution to rush headlong and
regardless down the other side and out of our sight. When a man had reached a certain pitch
of excitement he ran amuck. He sold anything, deserted anything, broke through anything in
the way of family, responsibility, or financial lacks in order to go. But, as I say, occasionally
one of these clubs pooled its individual resources and bought some old tub of a whaler, or
outfitted a wagon train, and started off. But generally we got only as far as Oh, Susannah!
I remember once, in coming out from one of our meetings, finding myself next a solemn and earnest
youth originally from my own rural village. He walked by my side for several squares lost in
a brown study. Then suddenly he looked up.

Which remark sufficiently indicates about where we all were!

CHAPTER II

THE HAMMERLOCK

We had many sorts of men in our club, but nearly all young. One, in especial, early attracted
my attention, and held it through all the changing vicissitudes of our many meetings. I say
attracted me, though fascinated would be perhaps the better word, for after the first evening
of his attendance I used deliberately so to place myself that I could watch him.

He came always in a rather worn military cape, which on entering the door he promptly threw
back in such a manner as to display the red lining. This seemed an appropriate envelopment
of his flaming, buoyant personality. He walked with his chin up and his back straight, and
trod directly on and over the ends of his toes so that he seemed fairly to spring with vigour.
His body was very erect and tall and pliant, bending easily to every change of balance. If
I were never to have seen his face at all I should have placed him as one of the laughing spirits
of the world. His head was rather small, round, well poised, with soft close-set ringlets all
over it like a cap, in the fashion of some marble gods I have seen. He had very regular, handsome
features, with a clear, biscuit-brown complexion, and a close-clipped, stubby, light moustache.
All these things were interesting and attractive, though no more so than are the vigour and
beauty of any perfect animal. But the quality of his eyes placed him, at least to me, in a
class apart. They were sober, clear eyes, that looked out gray and contemplative on the world
about them; so that one got the instant impression of a soul behind them that weighed and judged.
Indeed they were not laughing eyes at all, and rather negatived the impression made by the
man's general bearing. But somewhere down in them something flickered like a strong burning
candle in a brisk wind. Occasionally it was almost out; then again it blazed up clear, so that
one thought to see it plainly through the steady brooding look. It always fascinated the beholder,
for it was mysterious. Whether it came and went, grew and shrank, following delicately the
moods or reflections of the spirit within, or whether it was a purely fortuitous effect of
light and refraction, no man was ever able to say. And some men later made some very bad guesses.
I myself think it was the devil of genius--a devil behind the steady control of a clear brain.
His name, I soon discovered, was Talbot Ward.

At this period I was starting in as an assistant bookkeeper to a large exporting firm. They
were enterprising people, and already they were laying plans to capture some of the California
trade. The office talk I heard concerning the purchase of ships, the consignment of arms, the
engagement of captains and of crews further inflamed my imagination. I received the vast sum
of nine dollars per week. As I was quite alone in the world, and possessed no other resources,
the saving of the five hundred dollars agreed upon as the least sum with which it was possible
to get to California was fairly out of all question.

One evening, after the meeting, to my great surprise, Ward fell into step with me. We had up
to that moment never exchanged a word.

"In New York long?" he demanded.

"About six months," I told him.

"Farm bred, of course?" he remarked. "Where?"

"Ashbury in Vermont," I replied, without the slightest feeling that he was intrusive.

He stopped short in the street and looked me up and down reflectively, but without comment.

"I've been watching you at these fool meetings," said he, falling into step again.

In spite of myself I experienced a glow of gratification at having been the object of his interest.

"Fool meetings?" I echoed inquiringly.

"Suppose, by a miracle, all that lot could agree, and could start for California to-morrow,
in a body--that's what they are organized for, I believe," he countered--"would you go with them?"

"Why not?"

"Martin is why not; and Fowler is why not; and that little Smith runt, and six or eight others.
They are weak sisters. If you are going into a thing, go into it with the strong men. I wouldn't
go with that crowd to a snake fight if it was twelve miles away. Where do you live?"

"West Ninth Street."

"That's not far. Have you a good big room?"

"I have a very small hall bedroom," I replied wonderingly; "a number of us have the whole of
the top floor."

Somehow, I must repeat, this unexplained intrusion of a total stranger into my private affairs
did not offend.

"Then you must have a big sitting-room. How many of you?"

"Four."

"Can you lick all the others?"

I stopped to laugh. By some shrewd guess he had hit on our chief difficulty as a community.
We were all four country boys with a good deal of residuary energy and high spirits; and we
were not popular with the tenants underneath.

"You see I'm pretty big----" I reminded him.

"Yes, I see you are. That's why I'm with you. Do you think you can lick me?"

I stopped short again, in surprise.

"What in blazes----" I began.

He laughed, and the devils in his eyes danced right out to the surface of them.

"I asked you a plain question," he said, "and I'd like the favour of a plain answer. Do you
think you can lick me as well as your rural friends?"

"I can," said I shortly.

He ran his arm through mine eagerly.

"Come on!" he cried, "on to West Ninth!"

We found two of my roommates smoking and talking before the tiny open fire. Talbot Ward, full
of the business in hand, rushed directly at the matter once the introductions were over.

Our arrangements were very simple; the chairs were few and pushed back easily, and we had an
old set of gloves.

"Which is it to be?" I asked my guest, "boxing or wrestling?"

"I said you couldn't lick me," he replied. "Boxing is a game with rules; it isn't fighting at all."

"You want to bite and gouge and scratch, then?" said I, greatly amused.

"I do not; they would not be fair; a fight's a fight; but a man can be decent with it all.
We'll put on the gloves, and we'll hit and wrestle both--in fact, we'll fight."

He began rapidly to strip.

"Would you expect to get off your clothes in a real fight?" I asked him a little sardonically.

"If I expected to fight, yes!" said he. "Why not? Didn't the Greek and Roman and Hebrew and
Hun and every other good old fighter 'strip for the fray' when he got a chance? Of course!
Takeoff your shirt, man!"

I began also to strip for this strange contest whose rules seemed to be made up from a judicious
selection of general principles by Talbot Ward.

My opponent's body was as beautiful as his head. The smooth white skin covered long muscles
that rippled beneath it with every slightest motion. The chest was deep, the waist and hips
narrow, the shoulders well rounded. In contrast my own big prominent muscles, trained by heavy
farm work of my early youth, seemed to move slowly, to knot sluggishly though powerfully. Nevertheless
I judged at a glance that my strength could not but prove greater than his. In a boxing match
his lithe quickness might win--provided he had the skill to direct it. But in a genuine fight,
within the circumscribed and hampering dimensions of our little room, I thought my own rather
unusual power must crush him. The only unknown quantity was the spirit or gameness of us two.
I had no great doubt of my own determination in that respect--I had been on too many log-drives
to fear personal encounter. And certainly Talbot Ward seemed to show nothing but eager interest.

"You don't show up for what you are in your clothes," said he. "This is going to be more fun
than I had thought."

My roommates perched on the table and the mantelpiece out of the way. I asked the length of
the rounds.

"Rounds!" echoed Talbot Ward with a flash of teeth beneath his little moustache. "Did you ever
hear of rounds in a real fight?"

With the words he sprang forward and hit me twice. The blows started at the very toe of his
foot; and they shook me as no blows, even with the bare fist, have ever shaken me before or
since. Completely dazed, I struck back, but encountered only the empty air. Four or five times,
from somewhere, these pile-driver fists descended upon me. Being now prepared, to some extent,
I raised my elbows and managed to defend my neck and jaws. The attack was immediately transferred
to my body, but I stiffened my muscles thankfully and took the punishment. My river and farm
work had so hardened me there that I believe I could have taken the kick of a mule without
damage were I expecting it.

The respite enabled my brain to clear. I recovered slowly from the effect of those first two
vicious blows. I saw Ward, his eyes narrowed calculatingly, his body swinging forward like
a whalebone spring, delivering his attack with nice accuracy. A slow anger glowed through me.
He had begun without the least warning: had caught me absolutely unaware. I hit back.

He was so intent on his own assault, so certain of the blinding effect of his first attack,
that I hit him. I saw his head snap back, and the blood come from his lips. The blows were
weak, for I was still dazed; but they served, together with the slow burn of my anger, greatly
to steady me. We were once more on equal terms.

For perhaps two minutes I tried to exchange with him. He was in and out like lightning; he
landed on me hard almost every time; he escaped nine out of ten of my return counters. Decidedly
I was getting the worst of this; though my heavier body took punishment better than his lighter
and more nervous frame. Then suddenly it occurred to me that I was playing his game for him.
As long as he could keep away from me, he was at an advantage. My best chance was to close.

From that moment I took the aggressive, and was in consequence the more punished. My rushes
to close in were skilfully eluded; and they generally laid me wide open. My head was singing,
and my sight uncertain; though I was in no real distress. Ward danced away and slipped around
tense as a panther.

Then, by a very simple ruse, I got hold of him. I feinted at rushing him, stopped and hit instead,
and then, following closely the blow, managed to seize his arm. For ten seconds he jerked and
twisted and struggled to release himself. Then suddenly he gave that up, dove forward, and
caught me in a grapevine.

He was a fairly skilful wrestler, and very strong. It was as though he were made of whalebone
springs. But never yet have I met a man of my weight who possessed the same solid strength;
and Ward would tip the scales at considerably less. I broke his hold, and went after him.

He was as lively as an exceedingly slippery fish. Time after time he all but wriggled from
my grasp; and time after time he broke my hold by sheer agility. His exertions must have been
to him something terrible, for they required every ounce of his strength at the greatest speed.
I could, of course, take it much easier, and every instant I expected to feel him weaken beneath
my hands; but apparently he was as vigorous as ever. He was in excellent training. At last,
however, I managed to jerk him whirling past me, to throw his feet from under him, and to drop
him beneath me. As he fell he twisted, and by a sheer fluke I caught his wrist.

Thus through no great skill of my own the fortunes of war had given me a hammerlock on him.
Most people know what that is. Any one else can find out by placing his forearm across the
small of his back and then getting somebody else to press upward on the forearm. The Greek
statue of "The Wrestlers" illustrates it. As the pressure increases, so does the pain. When
the pain becomes intense enough, the wrestler rolls over and the contest is won. Some people
can stand it longer than others; but all sooner or later must give up. In fact, skilled wrestlers,
knowing that otherwise the inevitable end is a broken arm, save themselves much tribulation
by immediately conceding the bout once this deadly hold is gained.

I began to force Talbot Ward's hand slowly up his back.

Very gently, an inch at a time, I pressed. He said nothing. Once he attempted to slip sidewise;
but finding me of course fully prepared for that, he instantly ceased struggling. After I had
pushed the hand to the hurting point, I stopped.

"Well?" said I.

He said nothing.

Now I was young, and none too well disciplined, heated by contest, and very angry at having
been so unexpectedly attacked at the beginning. I was quite willing to hurt him a little. Slowly
and steadily, and, I am ashamed to say, with considerable satisfaction, I pressed the arm upward.
The pain must have been intense. I could feel the man's body quiver between my knees, and saw
the sweat break out afresh. Still he made no sign, but dug his forehead into the floor. "I
can stand this as long as you can," said I to myself grimly.

But at last I reached the point where I knew that another inch, another pound, would break
the bone.

"Do you give up?" I demanded.

"No!" he gasped explosively.

"I'll break your arm!" I snarled at him.

He made no reply.

The blood was running into my eyes from a small scrape on my forehead. It was nothing, but
it annoyed me. I was bruised and heated and mad. Every bit of antagonism in me was aroused.
As far as I was concerned, it was a very real fight.

"All right," I growled, "I'll keep you there then, damn you!"

Holding the arm in the same position, I settled myself. The pain to the poor chap must have
been something fearful, for every muscle and tendon was stretched to the cracking point. His
breath came and went in sharp hisses; but he gave no other sign. My heat cooled, though, as
I look back on it, far too slowly. Suddenly I arose and flung him from me. He rolled over on
his back, and lay, his eyes half closed, breathing deeply. We must have been a sweet sight,
we two young barbarians--myself marked and swollen and bloody, he with one eye puffed, and
pale as death. My roommates, absolutely fascinated, did not stir.

The tableau lasted only the fraction of a minute, after all. Then abruptly Talbot Ward sat
up. He grinned up at me with his characteristic momentary flash of teeth.

"I told you you couldn't lick me," said he.

I stared at him in astonishment.

"Licked? Why, I had you cold!"

"You had not."

"I'd have broken your arm, if I had gone any farther."

"Well, why didn't you?"

I stared into his eyes blankly.

"Would you have done it?" I asked, in a sudden flash of illumination.

"Why, of course," said he, with a faint contempt, as he arose.

"Why did you hit me at first, as you did? You gave me no warning whatever."

"Do you get any warning in a real fight?"

I could not controvert this; and yet uneasily, vaguely, I felt there must be a fallacy somewhere.
I had been told and not told, what should, or should not, be done, in an affair that apparently
could have no rules, and yet had distinctions as to fair and unfair, some of which were explained
and some left as obvious. I felt somewhat confused. But often in my later experience with Talbot
Ward I felt just that way, so in retrospect it does not strike me so forcibly as it did at
that time.

"But you're a wonder! a perfect wonder!" Ward was saying.

Then we all became aware of a knocking and a rattling at the door. It must have been going
on for some time.

"If you don't open, I'll get the police! I promise you, I'll get the police!" the voice of
our landlady was saying.

We looked at each other aghast.

"I suppose we must have been making a little noise," conceded Talbot Ward. Noise! It must have
sounded as though the house were coming down. Our ordinary little boxing matches were nothing
to it.

Ward threw his military cape around his shoulders, and sank back into a seat beneath the window.
I put on an overcoat. One of the boys let her in.

She was thoroughly angry, and she gave us all notice to go. She had done that same every Saturday
night for a year; but we had always wheedled her out of it. This time, however, she seemed
to mean business. I suppose we had made a good deal of a riot. When the fact became evident,
I, of course, shouldered the whole responsibility. Thereupon she turned on me. Unexpectedly
Talbot Ward spoke up from the obscurity of his corner. His clear voice was incisive, but so
courteous with the cold finality of the high-bred aristocrat, that Mrs. Simpkins was cut short
in the middle of a sentence.

"I beg you, calm yourself, madam," said he; "it is not worth heating yourself over: for the
annoyance, such as it is, will soon be removed. Mr. Munroe and myself are shortly departing
together for California."

CHAPTER III

THE VOYAGE

If I had any scruples--and I do not remember many--they were overcome within the next day or
two. It was agreed that I was to go in Ward's employ, he to pay my passage money and all expenses,
I to give him half the gold I might pick up. This seemed to me, at least, an eminently satisfactory
and businesslike arrangement. Ward bought the outfits for both of us. It turned out that he
was a Mexican war veteran--hence the military cape--and in consequence an old campaigner. His
experience and my rural upbringing saved us from most of the ridiculous purchases men made
at that time. We had stout clothes and boots, a waterproof apiece, picks and shovel, blankets
and long strips of canvas, three axes, knives, one rifle, a double shotgun, and a Colt's revolver
apiece. The latter seemed to me a wonderful weapon, with its six charges in the turning cylinder;
but I had no opportunity to try it.

Ward decided instantly for the Panama route.

"It's the most expensive, but also the quickest," said he; "a sailing ship around the Horn
takes forever; and across the plains is ditto. Every day we wait, some other fellow is landing
in the diggings."

Nearly every evening he popped into our boarding house, where, owing to the imminence of my
departure, I had been restored to favour. I never did find out where he lived. We took our
passage at the steamship office; we went to the variety shows and sang Oh, Susannah! with the
rest; we strutted a bit, and were only restrained from donning our flannel shirts and Colt's
revolving pistols in the streets of New York by a little remnant, a very little remnant, of
common sense. When the time at last came, we boarded our steamship, and hung over the rail,
and cheered like crazy things. I personally felt as though a lid had been lifted from my spirit,
and that a rolling cloud of enthusiasm was at last allowed to puff out to fill my heaven.

In two days we were both over being seasick, and had a chance to look around us. Our ship was
a side-wheel steamer of about a thousand tons, and she carried two hundred and eighty passengers,
which was about two hundred more than her regular complement. They were as miscellaneous a
lot as mortal eye ever fell upon: from the lank Maine Yankee to the tall, sallow, black-haired
man from Louisiana. I suppose, too, all grades of the social order must have been represented;
but in our youth and high spirits we did not go into details of that sort. Every man, with
the exception of a dozen or so, wore a red shirt, a slouch hat, a revolver and a bowie knife;
and most of us had started to grow beards. Unless one scrutinized closely such unimportant
details as features, ways of speech or manners, one could not place his man's former status,
whether as lawyer, physician or roustabout. And we were too busy for that. I never saw such
a busy place as that splattering old ship slowly wallowing her way south toward the tropical
seas. We had fifty-eight thousand things to discuss, beginning with Marshall's first discovery,
skipping through the clouds of rumours of all sorts, down to intimate details of climate, outfit,
prospects, plans, and the best methods of getting at the gold. And to all these subjects we
brought a dozen points of view, each of which was strange to all the others. We had with us
men from every stratum of society, and from every point of the compass. Each was a product
of his own training and mental upbringing, and was incapable, without great effort, of understanding
his neighbour's point of view. Communication and travel were in those days very limited, it
must be remembered, and different communities and sections of the country produced strong types.
With us discussion became an adventurous exploration into a new country; the man from Maine
could not but be interested in finding out what that strange, straight-haired, dark creature
from Carolina might think of even the most commonplace subject. Only our subjects were not
commonplace.

So my chief impression of that voyage down was of knots of men talking hurriedly and excitedly,
as though there were not a moment to waste; and the hum of voices rising and falling far into
the night.

Only two things were capable of breaking in on this tense absorption of the men in each other
and in their subject--one was dolphins, and the other the meal gong. When dolphins appeared
each rushed promptly to the side of the ship and discharged his revolver at the beasts. I never
saw any harm come from these fusillades, but they made a wonderful row. Meal times always caught
the majority unaware. They tumbled and jostled down the companionways only to find the wise
and forethoughtful had preëmpted every chair. Whereupon, with most ludicrous expressions of
chagrin or of assumed nonchalance, they trooped back to meet the laughter of the wise, if not
forethoughtful, who had realized the uselessness of the rush. After a moment's grumbling, however,
the discussions were resumed.

There was some quarrelling, but not much. A holiday spirit pervaded the lot; for they were
men cut off from all experience, all accustomed surroundings, all the restraints of training,
and they were embarked on the great adventure. I do not now remember many of them individually.
They were of a piece with the thousands we were destined to encounter. But I do retain a most
vivid mental picture of them collectively, with their red shirts, their slouch hats, their
belts full of weapons, their eyes of eagerness, their souls of dreams; brimming with pent energy;
theorizing, arguing, disputing; ready at an instant's notice for any sort of a joke or excitement
that would relieve the tension; boisterous, noisy, laughing loudly, smothering by sheer weight
of ridicule individual resentments--altogether a wonderful picture of the youth and hope and
energy and high spirits of the time.

