"Well, as I told you, 'Nita dearest, old Mr. Ferrand was one of my father's best friends. His
offices were in the Colossus Building, and I had been in to see him about ten days before--so
in spite of Mr. Blaine's warning, I was perfectly unsuspecting. Of course, I didn't remember
his office-boy from Adam, but that fact never occurred to me, then. I went right along with
the boy, and he talked so volubly that I didn't notice we had gotten into the wrong elevator--the
express--until its first stop, seven floors above Mr. Ferrand's. They must have staged the
whole thing pretty well--Carlis and Paddington and their crew--for when I stepped out of the
express elevator, there was no one in sight that I remember but the boy who was with me. I
pressed the button of the local, which was just beside the express--there was a buzz and whirring
hum as if the elevator had ascended, and the door opened. As I stepped over its threshold,
I felt a violent blow and terrific pain on the back of my head, and seemed to fall into limitless
space. That was all I knew until I woke up in the hospital where Mr. Blaine had taken me after
discovering and rescuing me, to see your dear face bending over mine!"

"One of Paddington's men was waiting, and hit you on the head with a window-pole, as you stepped
into the open elevator shaft," Blaine supplemented. "It was all a plant, of course. You only
fell to the roof of the elevator, which was on a level with the floor below. There they carried
you into the office of a fake company, kept you until closing time, and got you out of the
building as a drunkard, conveying you to Mac Alarney's retreat in his own machine. Nobody employed
in the building was in their pay but the elevator man, and he's got his, along with the rest!
Paddington's scheme wasn't bad; if he'd only been on the square, he might have made a very
brilliant detective!"

"How terrible his death was!" Anita shuddered. "And how unexplainable! No one ever found out
who stabbed him, there in the park, did they?"

Blaine did not reply. He knew that on the day following the discovery of the murdered man,
one Franchette Durand, otherwise Fifine Déchaussée, had sailed for Havre on the ill-fated La
Tourette, which had gone to the bottom in mid-ocean, with all on board. He knew also that an
hour before the French girl's last tragic interview with Paddington, she had discovered the
existence of his wife, for he himself had seen to it that the knowledge was imparted to her.
Further than that, he preferred not to conjecture. The Madonna-faced girl had taken her secret
with her to her swiftly retributive grave in the deep.

Blaine rose, somewhat reluctantly. Work called him, and yet he loved to be near them in the
rose-tinted high noon of their happiness.

"I'll be on hand to-morrow, indeed I will!" he promised heartily, in response to their eager
request.

"To-morrow! Just think!" Anita buried her glowing face in her lover's shoulder for an instant,
and then looked up with misty eyes. "Just think, if it hadn't been for you, Mr. Blaine, there
wouldn't be any to-morrow! I don't mean about your getting my father's money all back for me--I'm
grateful, of course, but it doesn't count beside the greater thing you have given us! But for
you, there would never have been any--to-morrow."

"That's true!" The young man's arm encircled the girl's slender waist as they stood together
in the glowing sunlight, but his other hand gripped the detective's. "We owe life, our happiness,
the future, everything to you!"

And so Henry Blaine left them.

At the door he turned and glanced back, and the sight his eyes beheld was a goodly one for
him to carry away with him into the world--a sight as old as the ages, as new as the hour,
as prescient as the hours and ages to come. Just a man and a maid, sunshine and happiness,
youth and love!--that, and the light of undying gratitude in the eyes they bent upon him. However,
punctuation has not been changed to comply with modern conventions.

A List of Illustrations was added and illustrations have been moved, when necessary, so that
they are not in the middle of a paragraph.