    "Triumph 1920 4 h.p. Model H, also Baby, both brand new; sacrifice,
    £5 off each."

Motor Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It was intended to hold mock trials in order to familiarise women
    with court procedure and 'legal shibboleths.'

    When I saw her to-day, Miss ---- said that 'techniaclities' would
    have been a better word."--Evening Paper.

We hate to contradict a lady, but we cannot agree.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKING FOR PEACE.

(Extracts from the Diary of Mr. John Robert Boffkins, Trade Union Leader.)

Monday.--Rose with a heart over-flowing with love towards my fellow-men. Industrial strife
must cease. Strikes are a barbarous and futile method of redressing wrong. Rather think that
an increase in wages of two shillings a day would appeal to our members. Must inquire.

Tuesday.--Have confirmed my opinion that a two-shillings' increase would appeal to our members.
They all seem enthusiastic over the suggestion. They appear to be under the impression that
the idea is their own. It is not. It is mine. If it materialises I shall be most popular. But
I am all for peace. A strike is out of the question. I shall spare no effort to prevent one.

Wednesday.--Presented formal demand to employers to-day. Told our members they must be firm
to the bitter end. The two-shillings' increase is their strict due, and, if we present a united
front, the grasping capitalist will be brought to his knees. Am working night and day for peace.

Thursday.--Pointed out to the employers that a strike is inevitable unless they give way. We
can make no concession. My whole energies are concentrated on preventing a strike. Told our
members that unless they remain firm the employers will crush them. A strike would be a national
calamity and might spell ruin to the country.

Friday.--The possibility of a strike looms larger. Can nothing be done to prevent it? Informed
the employers that we declined to abate one iota of our claim. "All or nothing" is our motto.
Also refused to go to arbitration. Warned the employers that a strike means starvation for
women and children. The prospect appals me.

Saturday.--The employers, who seem to be determined on a strike, have offered the men two shillings
if they will consider the question of working five days a week instead of four. We refused
their offer and demanded that our claim should be conceded unconditionally by noon, failing
which our members would cease work.

Later.--The strike has commenced. Heaven knows that I did everything to prevent it which human
being could do. The capitalists seem to have made up their minds to force civil war and all
its horrors upon the country. The spectacle of little children starving causes me acute distress.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GUIDE TO GREATNESS.

    [Mr. JACOB EPSTEIN maintains in The Daily Mail that a man
    to be a creative genius must lead an orderly domesticated
    life.]

    I COURTED the Muse as a stripling,
      Immured in a Bloomsbury flat,
    And yearned for the kudos of KIPLING
      For fees that were frequent and fat;
    But editors, far from discerning
      The worth of the pearls that I placed
    At their feet, had a way of returning
      The same with indelicate haste.

    But, espousing, a year or two later,
      The sweetest and neatest of wives,
    I found, after peeling a tater
      Or imparting a polish to knives,
    I could scribble with frenzy and passion,
      That the breaking of coal would inspire,
    In a truly remarkable fashion,
      My soul with celestial fire.

    Serenity reigns in the household;
      I've cancelled my grudge against Fate;
    My lyrical efforts are now sold
      At a simply phenomenal rate;
    And, whether I'm laying the lino
      Or bathing the babes, I regard
    The job as a cushy one: I know
      The way to succeed as a bard.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, October 19th.--A start was made with half a hundred Questions, and, considering that
most of them had been in cold storage since before the Recess, it was surprising how fresh
they remained. Persia and Mesopotamia--not to mention Ireland--are still unsettled; the Turkish
Treaty is not yet ratified; the cost of living continues to rise, and the ratio of unemployment
has alarmingly advanced, especially in the case of ex-service men.

These last are to be found work in the building trades, with, it is hoped, the assistance of
the trade unions, but, if that hope is disappointed, then without it. The country requires
half-a-million houses built. "Here are men who could assist," said the PRIME MINISTER, "and
we propose that they should be allowed to assist."

Over a prospect already sufficiently bleak there broods the shadow of the coal-strike. Sir
ROBERT HORNE, in presenting the case for the Government, was admirably clear but, perhaps naturally,
a little cold. Only when the new lighting arrangement had flooded the House with artificial
sunshine did the Minister warm up a little and hint that a way of peace might yet be found.

I wonder if it was by accident or artifice that Mr. BRACE began his plea for the miners with
the admission that they had only dropped the demand for the reduction of fourteen shillings
and twopence in the price of domestic coal when they discovered that "the money was not there."
Anyhow the laughter that ensued served to put Members into a good temper and to cause them
to lend a friendly ear to his suggestion that the two shillings advance, though in his view
only "dust in the balance," should be "temporarily" conceded, pending the establishment of
a tribunal which should permanently settle the conditions of the mining industry. The increase
of output which everyone desired would then be brought about.

Most of the speakers who followed seemed to think that Mr. BRACE had sown the seed of a settlement.
It was left to the PRIME MINISTER, who evidently did not relish the task, to awaken the House
from its beautiful dream. He pointed out that to accept the proposal would be to give the miners
what they had originally claimed, without any guarantee that the greater output would be forthcoming.
If it were not forthcoming and the two shillings were taken away, what would happen? "A strike,"
cried someone. "Precisely," said Mr. LLOYD GEORGE; only it would have been provoked by the
Government instead of by the miners. He was not prepared to do business on those lines.

And so the debate came to an end rather than a conclusion.

Wednesday, October 20th.--The Peers plunged into the morasses of the Irish Question. Lord CREWE
asked for an official inquiry into the alleged "reprisals" and particularly instanced the attacks
upon the creameries. Rather than that Ireland should be "pacified" by such methods as these
he would see her engaged in civil war, "fairly conducted on both sides." From these words it
may be gathered that his lordship's knowledge of civil war is happily not extensive.

Furnished with a voluminous brief from the Irish Office, Lord CURZON made a long reply, the
purport of which was that many of the reprisals were bogus, many were actions undertaken in
self-defence, while the rest were generally due to men "seeing red" after their comrades had
been brutally murdered. The Government did not palliate such cases, and had instituted inquiries
and taken disciplinary action against the offenders, when known; but they were not prepared
to set up a public inquiry such as Lord CREWE had demanded. It would only substitute "a competition
in perjury" for the present "competition in murder"--a somewhat infelicitous phrase by which,
as he subsequently explained, he did not mean to imply, as Lord PARMOOR suggested, that police
and rebels were engaged in a murderous rivalry.

Simultaneously the House of Commons was engaged upon an identically similar debate. Mr. ARTHUR
HENDERSON was as lugubrious as Lord CREWE in presenting the indictment and distinctly less
adroit in selecting his facts. His theory was that the Government had provoked the Sinn Fein
outrages by its treatment of the people. Why, women had been prevented from taking their eggs
to market!

Sir HAMAR GREENWOOD spoke from the same brief as Lord CURZON, but threw far more passion and
vigour into its recital. There had been some reprisals, he admitted, but they were as nothing
compared to the horrors that had provoked them; and he protested against the notion that "the
heroes of yesterday"--the R.I.C. is mainly recruited from ex-service men--had turned into murderers.
As for the creameries, he had never seen a tittle of evidence that they had been destroyed
by servants of the Crown, and he warned the House not to believe the stories put out by the
propaganda bureau of the Irish Republican Army. He was still a convinced Home Ruler--an Ulster
hot-gospeller had accused him of being a Sinn Feiner with a Papist wife!--but the first thing
to do was to break the reign of terror and end the rule of the assassin. That they were doing,
and there was no case for Mr. HENDERSON'S "insulting resolution."

The Opposition for the moment seemed stunned by the CHIEF SECRETARY'S sledge-hammer speech.
No one rose from the Front Bench and Lieutenant-Commander KENWORTHY had to overcome his modesty
and step into the breach. Later on, Lord ROBERT CECIL, on the strength of information supplied
by an American journalist, supported the demand for an inquiry. So did Mr. ASQUITH, on the
ground that it would be in the interests of the Government of Ireland itself; but this argument
was obviously weakened by Mr. BONAR LAW'S reminder that in 1913 and 1914 Mr. ASQUITH himself
had deprecated inquiries in somewhat similar circumstances. The Government had a very good
division, 346 to 79; but there were many abstentions.

Thursday, October 21st.--It was, no doubt, by way of brightening an unutterably gloomy week
that Mr. L'ESTRANGE MALONE, who has not hitherto been known as a humourist, invited the Government
to intercede at Washington for the release of the notorious JAMES LARKIN, now languishing in
an American gaol. Inasmuch as LARKIN had been convicted for having advocated the overthrow
of the United States by violence, Mr. HARMSWORTH did not think H.M. Government were called
upon to intervene. Mr. MALONE understood from this that the Government had no sympathy with
British subjects in foreign lands, and so he got another laugh.

Commander BELLAIRS thought it would be a good idea if the League of Nations, pending the discharge
of its more important functions, were to offer rewards for world-benefiting discoveries such
as a prophylactic against potato-blight. Sir JOHN REES saw his chance and took it. "Does the
League," he inquired, "declare to win on Phosphates, Peace or Potatoes?"--thus supplying proof
positive that he owes his precise pronunciation to past practice with "prunes and prisms."

It was rather impudent of Mr. ADAMSON, who has just been instrumental in throwing out of work
some hundreds of thousands of his fellow-citizens, to initiate a debate on unemployment. Most
of the speakers endeavoured to throw the blame on "the other fellow"--the Government on the
trade unions, the trade unionists on the employers, and the employers on the Government. A
welcome exception was Mr. HOPKINSON, who boldly blamed the short-sighted selfishness of some
of his own class. Employés would not work their hardest to "make the boss a millionaire." As
a fitting finale to an inconclusive debate the PRIME MINISTER announced that in order to force
a settlement of the coal-strike the railwaymen--Mr. THOMAS, apparently, dissenting--had threatened
to join the unemployed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Erudite Contemporaries.

    "Willard was game and well trained, and in stature he was Goliath to
    the Daniel of Dempsey."--Evening Paper.

A DAVID come to judgment!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The rate plague has developed to an alarming extent in Thanet, and
    considerable anxiety is felt, especially as there appears to be no
    effective preparation of poison to exterminate them."--Evening
    Paper.

And Thanet is not the only place.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TYPE-SLINGER.

    BITING and keen as any razor
    The fluent pen of LOVAT FRASER;
    And swift as arrows, thick as hail,
    His outbursts in The Daily Mail,
    Exposing in impassioned phrase
    The PREMIER'S wild and wicked ways.
    And yet the PREMIER doesn't squirm,
    No, not a bit--the pachyderm!
    But goes about with cheerful mien,
    As if such things had never been.

    So LOVAT FRASER grows emphatic
    In efforts to be more dogmatic,
    And down the column, once a week,
    His shrill italics fairly shriek.
    But does the PREMIER bow his back
    And go and give himself the sack?
    Not he. Indeed, for all he troubles,
    His critic might be blowing bubbles.

    It's up to LOVAT FRASER now
    To make an even bigger row;
    I'd like to see the sturdy fellow
    Write articles that simply bellow.
    I think the PREMIER might perhaps
    Shiver and possibly collapse
    IF LOVAT GOT TO WORK IN "CAPS."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Black Swan of Avon.

"A NATIVE DRAMA Entitled 'Inu vere ki pani'

    (Popularly known as Merchant of Venice, but beautified and enlarged
    to local taste), Interspersed with Popular Dialogues, latest Songs,
    etc. Will (D. V.) be rendered by the ---- Guild."--West African
    Poster.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REVIVAL OF OLLENDORFF.

FROM the memories of my mid-Victorian childhood, before the instruction of a governess had
reached a point at which the plunge was made into a preparatory school, three names emerge
with remarkable distinctness. "Little Arthur," from whom I derived my earliest knowledge of
the History of England; "Henry," by whom I was grounded in the rudiments of the dead Latin
tongue (but who must be carefully distinguished from JAMES HENRY, the Virgilian, who in turn
had nothing whatever to do with HENRY JAMES the novelist), and OLLENDORFF, the illustrious
author of a series of manuals for the teaching of living foreign languages.

OLLENDORFF, I fear, is not even the shadow of a name to the present generation. There is no
mention of him in The Encyclopædia Britannica or in Chambers. Even in his own country he seems
to have lapsed into obscurity, and in MENDEL'S voluminous Conversations-Lexikon there is only
a brief reference to the Ollendorffian method, but no account of the man or his history.

Yet he must have existed; OLLENDORFF cannot have been a mere symbol. And as students of SHAKSPEARE
have endeavoured to reconstruct the man from his plays so I feel sure that the character of
OLLENDORFF, his interests and politics, might very well be reconstructed from a study of his
dialogues. One must admit that his Teutonic patronymic is an obstacle to his revival, but that
difficulty can be surmounted by the adoption of an alias. For example, by the omission of one
of the "f's" and the transposition of one other letter his name, read backwards, becomes Frondello,
which is at once euphonious and void of all racial offence.

The Ollendorffian method, it may be noted for the benefit of the ignorant, did not merely depend
on the employment of question and answer; it aimed at conveying information drawn from the
homely affairs of daily life and the relations between persons belonging to different trades
and occupations. "Have you," OLLENDORFF would ask, "the hat of the gardener's son?" And when
this had been duly and correctly translated into German or French the pupil proceeded to the
answer, "No, but I have the boots of the grocer's brother-in-law."

I think OLLENDORFF built better than he knew; or perhaps he did know. A strong vein of Socialism
runs through all his examples, which seem to show a lively appreciation of the Communistic
principle. To him there was nothing wrong or dangerous in this mutual interchange and enjoyment
of property. He drew no hard-and-fast lines between meum and tuum. We cannot help thinking
that, at a time when so much depends on the fusion of classes, a new edition of these immortal
dialogues, brought up to date so as to meet the exigencies of the new poor, the new rich, the
old aristocracy and the new plutocracy, would be fraught with the most salutary results.

The following are some crude suggestions of the lines on which the revision might be carried out:--

"Have you the leathern waistcoat of the taxi-driver?--"No, but I have the reach-me-down trousers
of an inferior quality to those worn by the village postman."

"Have you the smooth-running automobile of the prosperous grocer?"--"No, but I have the loan
of the push-bicycle of my former under-gardener's uncle."

"Are you going to marry the beautiful daughter of the shoemaker?"--"Yes, and her brother has
just become engaged to the widow of my cousin the marquis."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"THE ROMANTIC AGE."

I HOPE that Mr. ALAN MILNE is a good enough critic to agree with me in thinking that this is
the best play he has so far given us. Not that the idea of it is as new as that of his Mr.
Pim or his Wurzel-Flummery, but because, without sacrificing his lightness of touch and his
sense of fun, he has, for the first time, produced a serious scheme.

People will tell you that his Second Act was the weak spot in the play; that the others were
brilliant, but that this one, for its first half, was tedious and delayed the action. They
will say this because they are familiar with A. A. M.'s humour, but not with his sentiment.
Yet it was in this middle Act that he gave us the best passage of all, in presenting the philosophy
of his pedlar, which had in it something of the dewy freshness of the early morning scene in
the wood ("morning's at seven," as Pippa--not Mr. Pim--said en passant). There was no real
delay in the action here, for the pedlar was providing the hero with the argument without which
he could never have persuaded the lady to yield; could never have made her understand that
Romance is not confined to the trunk-and-hose period, or any age, so named, of chivalry, but
is to be found wherever there is a true companionship of hearts. Unfortunately the effect of
this passage was a little spoilt by what had just gone before--a rather slow and superfluous
scene with the village idiot--and some of the audience imagined that the author was still marking
time.

Mr. MILNE has an individual manner so distinct that he can well afford to acknowledge his debt
to Sir JAMES BARRIE. As in Mary Rose, so here (though there are no supernatural forces at work)
we have the sharp contrast between commonplace life, as lived by the rest, and the life of
Fairyland, as coming within the vision of one only. And we were reminded too of the Midsummer-madness
that overtook the company in Dear Brutus. I won't say that it wasn't natural enough for Melisande,
under the fascination of a moonlit Midsummer Eve, to imagine, when she chanced upon a gentleman
in fancy dress of the right period, that at last she had realised her dream of a hero of romance;
but she was stark Midsummer-mad to suppose, when she met him early next morning with his costume
unchanged, that he would keep it on till he came to tea with the family, and then, still wearing
it, waft her off to Faerie.

But not even BARRIE has ever made a better scene than that which showed us the disillusionment
of the visionary when she is confronted with her blue-and-gold hero of romance now transformed
into a plain Stock Exchange man, his air of banality enhanced by the last word in golf suitings.
The humour of this scene, in which she made conventional conversation without any real effort
to conceal her sense of the bathos of the situation, was very perfect. The relatively simple
humour of the match-making mother--not so simple, all the same, as its spontaneity made it
appear--had the distinction which one expects of Mr. MILNE; but this was far the funniest feature
in the play.

It would have been an easy matter to make cheap fun, as MARK TWAIN did in A Yankee at the Court
of King Arthur, out of the popular view of the Age of Romance, but A. A. M. avoided that obvious
lure. Indeed, in his natural anxiety not to be taken too seriously in his first attempt to
be serious, he rather tended to make light of his own theory of modern romance, laying a little
too much stress at the end on the culinary aspect of conjugal felicity.

I am not sure that Mr. ARTHUR WONTNER (to whom my best wishes for his new managership) quite
realised, in his doublet and long hose, my idea of a figure of mediæval romance. In fact I
am free to confess that I disagreed with Melisande and preferred him in his golf-clothes. But
perhaps that was part of the idea, and Mr. MILNE meant me to feel like that. Miss BARBARA HOFFE'S
Melisande--a difficult part, because she was the only other-worldly person in the play and
the only one in desperate earnest--was very cleverly handled. In her most exalted moments of
poetic rapture she was never too precious, and when called upon for a touch of corrective humour
was quick to respond.

Miss LOTTIE VENNE laid herself out in her inimitable way for a broad interpretation of the
visionary's very earthly mother; indeed once or twice she almost laid herself out of the picture;
but she still remained irresistible. As a pair of light-hearted young lovers Miss DOROTHY TETLEY
and Mr. JOHN WILLIAMS played really well in parts that were not nearly so easy as they looked.
And there was the dry humour of Mr. BROMLEY-DAVENPORT, as the father (I fear he must have missed
the romance of twin souls) and the open-air charm of Mr. NICHOLSON'S performance as Gentleman
Susan, the pedlar. In a word, my grateful compliments embrace as good a cast as ever caught--and
held--the spirit of an author.

"PRISCILLA AND THE PROFLIGATE."

When you have been jilted by Cynthia at the church-door and, two days afterwards, in a fit
of pique marry Priscilla at sight (of course you can't always get a Priscilla to consent to
this arrangement; but Mr. Bensley Stuart Gore had a young ward at school who wanted her freedom;
so that was all right), you may think to persuade the Faithless One that you have given solid
proof of your indifference to her. But you mustn't dash off to Africa an hour after your wedding
with the declared intention of being eaten by wild men or wilder beasts, because, if you do
that, you give your scheme away and Cynthia will have the satisfaction of knowing that she
has driven you to desperate courses. Yet that is what Mr. Bensley Stuart Gore did (he was the
"Profligate" of the title, though he never gave any noticeable sign of profligacy).

After this strain on my credulity I felt prepared for anything, and was not in the least surprised
to find him, six years older and still intact, on the terrace of the Hotel Casa Bellini, by
the dear old shores of Lake Maggiore, which, as the programme advised me, is in Italy. It seemed,
too, the most natural thing in the world that the author, Miss LAURA WILDIG, should have collected
Priscilla and Cynthia (the latter in tow of a third-rate millionaire husband whom she loathed)
at the same address.

It was at this juncture that Mr. Bensley Stuart Gore was inspired with a Great Thought. In
order to set Priscilla free (I ought to say that he hadn't recognised her) he would elope with
Cynthia. How Priscilla set out to frustrate this noble sacrifice and secure her husband for
herself; how she bribed the caretaker to lock him up with her in the "Bloody Turret" of an
adjacent ruin; how subsequently, at 2 A.M., in the public lounge of the hotel, she tried to
work upon his emotions by appearing in a black night-dress (surely this rather vulgar form
of allurement is démodé by now even in the suburbs, or, anyhow, is not so freshly daring as
she seemed to think it), I will leave you to imagine. Even Miss IRIS HOEY'S nice soft voice
and pleasant câlineries could not quite carry off this rather machine-made trifle. If anything
saved it, it was the acting of Mr. FRANK DENTON as Jimmy Forde. Starting as Bensley's "best
man," he missed the wedding ceremony through going to the wrong church, but after that he stuck
close to his friend for the remainder of the plot, and greatly endeared himself to the audience
by the excellent way in which he played the silly ass.

As for Bensley himself, you might have thought that he had a sufficiently chequered career,
yet Mr. CYRIL RAYMOND got very little colour out of the part. For the rest, Mr. H. DE LANGE,
as the millionaire, got a certain amount out of the subject of his wife's indigestion, which
was a sort of leit-motif with him; but most of the colour seemed to have gone into the scenery,
admirably designed and painted by Mr. MCCLEERY and Mr. WALTER HANN.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"LOGS TO BURN."

    "Logs to burn; logs to burn;
    Logs to save the coal a turn."

    HERE's a word to make you wise
    When you hear the wood-man's cries;
    Never heed his usual tale
    That he has splendid logs for sale,
    But read these lines and really learn
    The proper kinds of logs to burn.

    Oak logs will warm you well
      If they're old and dry;
    Larch logs of pine woods smell,
      But the sparks will fly.
    Beech logs for Christmas-time,
      Yew logs heat well;
    "Scotch" logs it is a crime
      For anyone to sell.
    Birch logs will burn too fast,
      Chestnut scarce at all;
    Hawthorn logs are good to last
      If cut in the Fall.
    Holly logs will burn like wax,
      You should burn them green;
    Elm logs like smouldering flax,
      No flame to be seen.
    Pear logs and apple logs,
      They will scent your room;
    Cherry logs across the dogs
      Smell like flowers in bloom.
    But Ash logs, all smooth and grey,
      Burn them green or old;
    Buy up all that come your way,
      They're worth their weight in gold.

       *       *       *       *       *

"GIRL EYE-MAKER."

Picture-title in Daily Paper.

Perhaps we ought to mention that the eyes she makes are artificial, not "glad."

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Discreet Press.

    "Mystery surrounds the Russo-Polish peace negotiations at Riga.
    According to a Central News message from Warsaw Marshal Pilsudski
    has had a conference with??????????, the Premier, as to whether
    demobilisation should take place shortly."--Evening Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "When he [Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree] was prepared to play Martin
    Chuzzlewit he wrote to me (and doubtless explained to others) that
    he was going to present Mr. Micawber as 'a sort of
    fairy.'"--Sunday Paper.

We suppose if Sir HERBERT had staged David Copperfield he would have cast himself for the husband
of Mrs. Harris.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRIVATE FILM.

MY attention has been drawn to the most recent and perhaps the most terrible development of
the Cinema by an advertisement, from which I take the following extracts:--

    HAVE YOUR OWN FILM TAKEN.

    THE MOST MODERN METHOD OF GAINING PUBLICITY.

    To Members of Parliament, Mayors, Lecturers and other Public Men
    and Women.

    "The Cinema has become the cheapest, the surest and most rapid road
    to publicity. It is estimated that a third of the population attend
    the Cinema once a week. Messrs. Mump and Gump have therefore fitted
    up a special studio for film work, in which you can now have your
    own film taken, representing you in any action you may desire. This
    method of publicity is specially recommended to Members of
    Parliament. For instance one can be filmed writing a letter, which
    can be closed down and handed to a messenger, which action can be
    followed by the letter itself being thrown on the screen.... Think
    what this means to a prospective Candidate when he goes to a
    constituency where he is unknown. He takes with him twenty or more
    films. Your constituents must see and know you before you can hope
    for their vote. The Cinema introduces your personality and your
    policy.

   "Your film will cost you--
    First reel ... Three guineas.
    Each extra reel. One guinea."

The more I see of business-men the less they seem to me to know about business. I never read
an advertisement without thinking, "How much better I (or even you) could have done that!"
Yet they will tell you that it is their advertisements which make the money. It only shows....
However. Messrs. Mump and Gump, for instance, have scarcely skimmed the surface possibilities
of their brilliant notion. This invention is going to make politics tolerable at last. No man
minds being in the House of Commons; it is being in his constituency which is so dreadful.
And now he need never go there.

For instance, when the constituency is tired of the letter-film, he can be filmed making a
speech, which can be taken down and handed to a typist, which action can be followed by the
speech itself being thrown on the screen--in instalments. The constituency will enjoy this,
because it will take much less time to read it than it would to listen to it, and they can
argue out loud about the meaning of Early English phrases like Datum-line and Functional Representation.
In fact they can go on arguing during the Whips of Sin which will follow.

As for the public man, it won't take him two minutes to be filmed making the speech, unless,
of course, he has any very complicated gestures; and it won't take him any time at all to compose
it, because the private secretary will do that; and the private secretary will be able to make
sure that his joke about JEREBOAM is not turned into a joke about JEHOSHAPHAT at the last minute,
or simply shelved in favour of a peroration on rainbows. After the speech the M.P. can be filmed
opening a flowershow and, if necessary, writing a cheque to the local hortiphilist society,
which cheque can be thrown on the screen amid loud applause, but need not, of course, go any
further.

