No. 193.]
SATURDAY, JULY 9.                            28
  Göthe's Author-Remuneration                             29

  MINOR NOTES:--Parallel Passages--Unpublished Epitaphs--
  The Colour of Ink in Writings--Literary Parallels--
  Latin Verses prefixed to Parish Registers-- Napoleon's
  Bees                                                    30

  QUERIES:--
  Was Thomas Lord Lyttelton the Author of Junius's
  Letters? by Sir F. Madden                               31

  MINOR QUERIES:--Lord Chatham--Slow-worm Superstition--
  Tangiers--Snail Gardens--Naples and the Campagna
  Felice--"The Land of Green Ginger"--Mugger--
  Snail-eating--Mysterious Personage--George Wood of
  Chester--A Scale of Vowel Sounds--Seven Oaks and Nine
  Elms--Murder of Monaldeschi--Governor Dameram--Ancient
  Arms of the See of York--Hupfeld--Inscription on a
  Tomb in Finland--Sir Isaac Newton and Voltaire on
  Railway Travelling--Tom Thumb's House at Gonerby,
  Lincolnshire--Mr. Payne Collier's Monovolume
  Shakspeare                                              33

  REPLIES:--
  Wild Plants and their Names                             35
  Jacob Bobart, by H. T. Bobart                           37
  Heraldic Queries                                        37
  Door-head Inscriptions                                  38
  Consecrated Roses                                       38
  Notes on Serpents                                       39

  Photographic Correspondence:--Early Notice of the
  Camera Obscura--Queries on Dr. Diamond's Collodion
  Process--Baths for the Collodion Process                41

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Mitigation of Capital
  Punishment to a Forger--Chronograms and Anagrams--
  Abigail--Burial in unconsecrated Ground--"Cob" and
  "Conners"--Coleridge's Unpublished MSS.--Selling a
  Wife--Life--Passage of Thucydides on the Greek
  Factions--Archbishop King--Devonianisms--Perseverant,
  Perseverance--"The Good Old Cause"--Saying of Pascal--
  Paint taken off of old Oak--Passage in the "Tempest"    42

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c.                                     45
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                            45
  Notices to Correspondents                               46
  Advertisements                                          46

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

THE EYE: ITS PRIMARY IDEA.

I do not remember to have remarked that any writer notices how uniformly, in almost all languages,
the same primary idea has been attached to the eye. This universal consent is the more remarkable,
inasmuch as the connexion in question, though of course most appropriate and significant in
itself, hardly seems to indicate the most prominent characteristic, or what we should deem
to be par excellence the obvious qualities of the eye; in a word, we should scarcely expect
a term derived from a physical attribute or property.

The eye is suggestive of life, of divinity, of intellect, piercing acuteness (acies); and again,
of truth, of joy, of love: but these seem to have been disregarded, as being mere indistinctive
accidents, and the primary idea which, by the common consent of almost all nations, has been
thought most properly to symbolise this organ is a spring--fons, [Greek: pêgê].

Thus, from [Hebrew: `IYN], manare, scatere, a word not in use, according to Fuerst, we have
the Hebrew [Hebrew: `AYIN], fons aquarum et lacrimarum, h. e. oculus. This word however, in
its simple form, seems to have almost lost its primary signification, being used most generally
in its secondary--oculus. (Old Testament Hebrew version, passim.) In the sense of fons, its
derivative [Hebrew: MA`YAN] is usually substituted.

Precisely the same connexion of ideas is to be found in the Syriac, the Ethiopic, and the Arabic.

Again, in the Greek we find the rarely-used word [Greek: opê], a fountain, or more properly
the eye, whence it wells out,--the same form as [Greek: opê], oculus; [Greek: ôps, opsis, optomai].
Thus, in St. James his Epistle, cap. iii. 11.: [Greek: mêti hê pêgê ek tês autês opês bruei
to gluku kai to pikron].

In the Welsh, likewise, a parallel case occurs: Llygad, an eye, signifies also the spring from
which water flows, as in the same passage of St. James: a ydyw ffynnon o'r un llygad (from
one spring or eye) yn rhoi dwfr melus a chwerw?

On arriving at the Teutonic or old German tongue, we find the same connexion still existing:
Avg, auga,--oculus; whence ougen ostendere--Gothis augo; and awe, auge, ave, campus ad {26}
amnem. (Vid. Schilteri, Thes., vol. iii. ad voc.) And here we cannot help noticing the similarity
between these words and the Hebrew [Hebrew: Y'OR], which (as well as the Coptic iaro) means
primarily a river or stream from a spring; but, according to Professor Lee, is allied to [Hebrew:
'WOR], light, the enlightenment of the mind, the opening of the eyes; and he adds, "the application
of the term to water, as running, translucid, &c., is easy." Here, then, is a similar connexion
of ideas with a change in the metaphor.

In the dialects which descended from the Teutonic in the Saxon branch, the connexion between
these two distinct objects is also singularly preserved. It is to be found in the Low German,
the Friesic, and the Anglo-Saxon. In the latter we have eá, eah, eagor, a welling, flowing
stream; eah, ægh, eage, an eye, which might be abundantly illustrated.

We could hardly fail to find in Shakspeare some allusion to these connected images in the old
tongue; no speck of beauty could exist and escape his ken. Thus:

 "In that respect, too, like a loving child,
  Shed yet some small drops from thy tender spring,
  Because kind Nature doth require it so."
                  Tit. And., Act V. Sc. 3.

 "Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
  Your tributary drops belong to woe,
  Which you, mistaking, offer up for joy."
                  Rom. and Jul., Act III. Sc. 2.

Many of the phrases of the ancient tongues, in which the eye bears a part, have been handed
down to us, and are still preserved in our own. My space, however, forbids me to do more than
allude to them; but there is one very forcible expression in the Hebrew [Hebrew: `AYIN B`AYIN],
literally, eye in eye, which we render much less forcibly--face to face. The Welsh have preserved
it exactly in their llygad yn llygad. Indeed, this is not the only instance in which they are
proud of having handed down the Hebrew idiom in all its purity. Shakspeare twice uses the old
phrase:

 "Since then my office hath so far prevailed,
  That face to face, and royal eye to eye,
  You have congreeted."--Hen. V., Act V. Sc. 2.

And in Tro. and Cres., Act III. Sc. 3; but it appears now to be obsolete.

Before concluding, I cannot help noticing, in connexion with this subject, the Old English
term "the apple of the eye." I am unable to trace it beyond the Anglo-Saxon. The Teutonic sehandes
ougen, pupilla oculi, is totally distinct; seha being merely medius punctus oculi, whence sehan,
videre. In the Semitic languages, as well as in the Greek and Latin, the origin of the term
is the same, and gives no clue to the meaning of the Saxon term. Thus, in the Hebrew [Hebrew:
'IYSHWON], dim. of [Hebrew: 'IYSH], homunculus, the small image of a person seen in the eye.
In Arabic it is the man or daughter of the eye. In Greek we have [Greek: korê, korasion, korasidon];
and in Latin, pupa, pupula, pupilla.

Has any light been thrown on the Anglo-Saxon term? Can it be that iris, not the pupil, is taken
to represent an apple? The pupil itself would then be the eye of the apple of the eye.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOSSIPING HISTORY--DE QUINCEY'S ACCOUNT OF HATFIELD.

In proof of the severity with which the laws against forgery were enforced, I have been referred
to the case of Hatfield, hanged in 1803 for forging franks. It is given very fully in Mr. De
Quincey's "Literary Recollections of Coleridge" in the first volume of the Boston edition of
his Works.

The story has some romance in it, and excited great interest fifty years ago. Hatfield had
lived by swindling; and, though he underwent an imprisonment for debt, had, upon the whole,
a long career of success. The last scene of his depredations was the Lakes, where he married
a barmaid, who was called "The Beauty of Buttermere." Shortly after the marriage he was arrested,
tried, and executed. Mr. De Quincey afterwards lived in the neighbourhood, dined at the public-house
kept by Mary's father, and was waited upon by her. He had the fullest opportunities of getting
correct information: and his version of the story is so truthlike, that I should have accepted
it without hesitation but for the hanging for forging a frank. As that offence never was capital,
and was made a felony punishable with transportation for seven years by 42 Geo. III. c. 63.,
I was impelled to compare the statement founded on gossip with more formal accounts; and I
send the result in illustration of the small reliance which is to be placed on tradition in
such matters. The arrival of Hatfield in a carriage is graphically described. He called himself
the Hon. Augustus Hope, brother of the Earl of Hopetoun. Some doubts were felt at first, but--

    "To remove suspicion, he not only received letters addressed to him
    under this assumed name, but he continually franked letters by that
    name. Now, that being a capital offence, being not only a forgery,
    but (as a forgery on the Post-office) sure to be prosecuted, nobody
    presumed to question his pretensions any longer; and henceforward he
    went to all places with the consideration due to an earl's
    brother."--P. 196.

The marriage with Mary Robinson, and the way in which they passed the honeymoon, are described:

    "They continued to move backwards and forwards, until at length, with
    the startling of a thunderclap to the {27} affrighted mountaineers,
    the bubble burst; officers of justice appeared, the stranger was
    easily intercepted from flight, and, upon a capital charge, he was
    borne away to Carlisle. At the ensuing assizes he was tried for
    forgery on the prosecution of the Post-office, found guilty, left for
    execution, and executed accordingly."--P. 199.

    "One common scaffold confounds the most flinty hearts and the
    tenderest. However, it was in some measure the heartless part of
    Hatfield's conduct which drew upon him his ruin; for the Cumberland
    jury, as I have been told, declared their unwillingness to hang him
    for having forged a frank; and both they, and those who refused to
    aid his escape when first apprehended, were reconciled to this
    harshness entirely by what they heard of his conduct to their injured
    young fellow-countrywoman."--P. 201.

Hatfield was not "easily intercepted from flight." Sir Frederick Vane granted a warrant to
apprehend him on the charge of forcing franks. Hatfield ordered dinner at the Queen's Head,
Keswick, to be ready at three; took a boat, and did not return. This was on October 6: he was
married to Mary on the 2nd. In November he was apprehended near Brecknock, in Wales: so those
who refused to aid his escape, if such there were, were not "reconciled to the hardship by
what they heard of his conduct to their young fellow-countrywoman." The "startling of the thunderclap"
was preceded by an ordinary proclamation, describing the offender, and offering a reward of
50l. for his apprehension. He was not "hurried away to Carlisle," but deliberately taken to
London on December 12; examined at Bow Street, remanded three times, and finally committed;
and sent to Carlisle, where he was tried on August 15, 1803.

Three indictments were preferred against him: the first for forging a bill of exchange for
20l., drawn by Alexander Augustus Hope on John Crump, payable to George Wood; the second for
a similar bill for 30l.; and the third for counterfeiting Colonel Hope's handwriting to defraud
the Post-office.

The Cumberland jury did not "declare their unwillingness to hang him for forging a frank,"
that not being a capital offence. I infer, also, that it was one for which he was not tried.
He was convicted on the first indictment; the court rose immediately after the jury had given
their verdict; and the prisoner was called up for judgment at eight the next morning. Trying
a man under sentence of death for a transportable felony, is contrary to all practice. Hatfield
was executed at Carlisle on September 3, 1803.

Mary's misfortunes induced the sympathising public to convert her into a minor heroine. She
seems to have been a common-place person, with small claims to the title of "The Beauty of
Buttermere." A cotemporary account says, "she is rather gap-toothed and somewhat pock-marked."
And Mr. De Quincey, after noticing her good figure, says, "the expression of her countenance
was often disagreeable."

    "A lady, not very scrupulous in her embellishment of facts, used to
    tell an anecdote of her which I hope was exaggerated. Some friend of
    hers, as she affirmed, in company with a large party, visited
    Buttermere a day or two after that on which Hatfield suffered; and she
    protested that Mary threw on the table, with an emphatic gesture, the
    Carlisle paper containing an elaborate account of the execution."--P.
    204.

Considering the treatment she had received, it is not unlikely that her love, if she ever had
any for a fat man of forty-five, was turned into hatred; and it was not to be expected that
her taste would keep down the manifestation of such feeling. When Hatfield was examined at
Bow Street, Sir Richard Ford, the chief magistrate, ordered the clerk to read aloud a letter
which he received from her. It was:

    "Sir,--The man whom I had the misfortune to marry, and who has ruined
    me and my aged and unhappy parents, always told me that he was the Hon.
    Colonel Hope, the next brother to the Earl of Hopetoun.

    "Your grateful and unfortunate servant,
    "MARY ROBINSON."

I do not blame Mr. De Quincey, having no doubt that he believed what he was told; but I have
put together these facts and discrepancies, to show how careful we should be in accepting traditions,
when a man of very high ability, with the best opportunities of getting at the truth, was so
egregiously misled.

My authorities are, The Annual Register, 1803, pp. 421. and 428.; The Gentleman's Magazine,
1803, pp. 779. 876. and 983.; Kirby's Wonderful Magazine, vol. i. pp. 309. and 336. The Newgate
Calendar gives a similar account but not having it at hand, I cannot vouch it.

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON THE NAMES OF SOME OF THE EARLY INHABITANTS OF HELLAS.

I. I have never seen it yet noticed, that the names Pyrrha, Æolus, Xuthus, Ion, are all names
of colours. Is there anything in this, or is it fortuitous?

II. In accordance with the above, I think we may refer most of the names of the early inhabitants
of Greece to words denoting light or colour, or the like.

(1.) Pelas-gi. The first part of this word is, by Mr. Donaldson, connected with [Greek: mel-as],
which is also, probably, the root of Mol-ossi.

(2.) Hellenes, connected with Helli, Selli, [Greek: selas, heulê, hêlios]. This derivation
is made more probable {28} by the fact, that the neighbouring Pelasgic tribes have a similar
meaning; e.g.,

Perrhæbi, alike to Pyrrha and [Greek: pur]; Æthices, [Greek: aithô], Tymphæi, [Greek: tuphô];
Hestiæi, [Greek: hestia]. Add to this, that the name Phthiotis seems indubitably to derive
its name from Phthah, the Egyptian Hephæstus, and to be a translation of the word Hellas.

N.B.--The existence of an Egyptian colony in that part is attested by the existence of a Phthiotic
Thebæ.

(3.) On the other hand, the word Achæus seems to be connected with [Greek: achos, achnumai],
and [Greek: achlus] in the sense of gloom (of [Greek: ouranion achos]). So the Homeric Cimmerians
are derived from [Hebrew: KIMRIYRIY] (Job), denoting darkness.

(4.) Lastly, I submit with great diffidence the following examination of the words Dorus and
the Æolian Minyæ, which I shall attempt to derive from words denoting sun and moon respectively.

The word Dorus I assume to be connected with the first part of the names Dry-opes and Dol-opes.
The metathesis in the first case seems sanctioned by the analogy of the Sanscrit drî and Greek
[Greek: deirô], and the mutation of l and r in the second is too common in Greek and Latin
to admit of any doubt, e.g. [Greek: ar-galeos] and [Greek: algaletos]; Sol and Soracte. With
this premised, I think we may be justified in connecting the following words with one another.

Dores, Dryopes with [Greek: Seirios] (of [Greek: Sios] and [Greek: Dios]) [Greek: Theros],
the Scythian sun-god [Greek: Oito-surus], the Egyptian O-siris, and perhaps the Hebrew [Hebrew:
DWOR] and Greek [Greek: dêros] (the course of the sun being the emblem of eternity).--Dol-opes
with Sol, [Greek: heilê], Selli, &c.

On the other hand, the neighbouring Minyæ seem connected with [Greek: minuthô, minuntha], minus,--all
with the sense of decreasing or waning; hence referable, both in sense and (I fancy) in derivation,
to Greek [Greek: mên], and Latin men-sis.

J. H. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE READINGS, NO. IX.

 "It lies as sightly on the back of him
  As great Alcides' shoes upon an ass."--King John, Act II. Sc. 1.

    "The ass was to wear the shoes, and not to bear them on his back, as
    Theobald supposed, and therefore would read shows. The 'shoes of
    Hercules' were as commonly alluded to by our old poets, as the ex pede
    Herculem was a familiar allusion of the learned." (Mr. Knight in
    1839.)

Fourteen years' additional consideration has not altered Mr. Knight's view of this passage.
In 1853 we find him putting forth a prospectus for a new edition of Shakspeare, to be called
"The Stratford Edition," various portions from which he sets before the public by way of sample.
Here we have over again the same note as above, a little diversified, and placed parallel to
Theobald's edition in this way:

 "It lies as sightly on the back of him
  As great Alcides' shows upon an ass."

    "The folio reads 'Great Alcides' shoes.' Theobald says, 'But why
    shoes, in the name of propriety? For let Hercules and his shoes
    have been really as big as they were ever supposed to be, yet they (I
    mean the shoes) would not have been an overload for an ass.'" It
    was not necessary that the ass should be overloaded with the shoes--he
    might be shod (shoed) with them."

Now who, in reading these parallel notes, but would suppose that it is Mr. Knight who restores
shoes to the text, and that it is Mr. Knight who points out the common allusion by our old
poets to the shoes of Hercules? Who would imagine that the substance of this correction of
Theobald was written by Steevens a couple of generations back, and that, consequently, Theobald's
proposed alteration had never been adopted?

I should not think of pointing out this, but that Mr. Knight himself, in this same prospectus,
has taken Mr. Collier to task for the very same thing; that is, for taking credit, in his Notes
and Emendations, for all the folio MS. corrections, whether known or unknown, necessary or
unnecessary.

Indeed, the very words of Mr. Knight's complaint against Mr. Collier are curiously applicable
to himself:

    "It requires the most fixed attention to the nice distinctions of such
    constantly-recurring 'notes and emendations,' to disembarrass the
    cursory reader from the notion that these are bonâ fide corrections
    of the common text....

    "Who cares to know what errors are corrected in" (the forthcoming
    Stratford edition), "that exist in no other, and which have never been
    introduced into the modern text?"--Specimen, &c., p. xxiv.

The impression one would receive from Mr. Knight's note upon Theobald is, that Shakspeare had
his notion of the shoes from "our old poets," while the learned had theirs from ex pede Herculem;
but where the analogy lies, wherein the point, or what the application, is not explained. Steevens'
original note was superior to this, in so much that he quoted the words of these old poets,
thereby giving his readers an opportunity of considering the justness of the deduction. The
only set-off to this omission by Mr. Knight is the introduction of "ex pede Herculem," the
merit of which is doubtless his own.

But it so happens that the size of the foot of Hercules has no more to do with the real point
of the allusion than the length of Prester John's; therefore ex pede Herculem is a most unfortunate
illustration,--particularly awkward in a specimen sample, the excellence of which may be questioned.
{29}

It is singular enough, and it says a great deal for Theobald's common sense, that he saw what
the true intention of the allusion must be, although he did not know how to reconcile it with
the existing letter of the text. He wished to preserve the spirit by the sacrifice of the letter,
while Mr. Knight preserves the letter but misinterprets the spirit.

Theobald's word "shows," in the sense of externals, is very nearly what Shakspeare meant by
shoes, except that shoes implies a great deal more than shows,--it implies the assumption of
the character as well as the externals of Hercules.

Out of five quotations from our old poets, given by Steevens in the first edition of his note,
there is not one in which the shoes are not provided with feet. But Malone, to his immortal
honour, was the first to furnish them with hoofs:

 "Upon an ass; i.e. upon the hoofs of an ass."--Malone.

But Shakspeare nowhere alludes to feet! His ass most probably had feet, and so had Juvenal's
verse (when he talks of his "satyrâ sumente cothurnum"); but neither Shakspeare nor Juvenal
dreamed of any necessary connexion between the feet and the shoes.

Therein lies the difference between Shakspeare and "our old poets;" a difference that ought
to be sufficient, of itself, to put down the common cry,--that Shakspeare borrowed his allusions
from them. If so, how is it that his expositors, with these old poets before their eyes all
this time, together with their own scholarship to boot, have so widely mistaken the true point
of his allusion? It is precisely because they have confined their researches to these old poets,
and have not followed Shakspeare to the fountain head.

There is a passage in Quintilian which, very probably, has been the common source of both Shakspeare's
version, and that of the old poets; with this difference, that he understood the original and
they did not.

Quintilian is cautioning against the introduction of solemn bombast in trifling affairs:

    "To get up," says he, "this sort of pompous tragedy about mean matters,
    is as though you would dress up children with the mask and buskins
    of Hercules."

    ["Nam in parvis quidem litibus has tragoedias movere tale est quale si
    personam Herculis et cothurnos aptare infantibus velis."]

Here the addition of the mask proves that the allusion is purely theatrical. The mask and buskins
are put for the stage trappings, or properties, of the part of Hercules: of these, one of the
items was the lion's skin; and hence the extreme aptitude of the allusion, as applied by the
Bastard, in King John, to Austria, who was assuming the importance of Coeur de Lion!

It is interesting to observe how nearly Theobald's plain, homely sense, led him to the necessity
of the context. The real points of the allusion can scarcely be expressed in better words than
his own:

    "Faulconbridge, in his resentment, would say this to Austria, 'That
    lion's skin which my great father, King Richard, once wore, looks as
    uncouthly on thy back, as that other noble hide, which was borne by
    Hercules, would look on the back of an ass!' A double allusion was
    intended: first, to the fable of the ass in the lion's skin; then
    Richard I. is finely set in competition with Alcides, as Austria is
    satirically coupled with the ass."

One step farther, and Theobald would have discovered the true solution: he only required to
know that the shoes, by a figure of rhetoric called synecdoche, may stand for the whole character
and attributes of Hercules, to have saved himself the trouble of conjecturing an ingenious,
though infinitely worse word, as a substitute.

As for subsequent annotators, it must be from the mental preoccupation of this unlucky "ex
pede Herculem," that they have so often put their foot in it. They have worked up Alcides'
shoe into a sort of antithesis to Cinderella's; and, like Procrustes, they are resolved to
stretch everything to fit.

A. E. B.

Leeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

GÖTHE'S AUTHOR-REMUNERATION.

The Note in your valuable Journal (Vol. vii., p. 591.) requires, I think, so far as it relates
to Göthe, several corrections which I am in the position of making. The amount which that great
man is said to have received for his "works (aggregate)" is "30,000 crowns." The person who
originally printed this statement must have been completely ignorant of Göthe's affairs, and
even biography. Göthe had (unlike Byron) several publishers in his younger years. Subsequently
he became closer connected with M. J. G. Cotta of Stuttgardt, who, in succession, published
almost all Göthe's works. Amongst them were several editions of his complete works: for instance,
that published conjointly at Vienna and Stuttgardt. Then came, in 1829, what was called the
edition of the last hand (Ausgabe letzter Hand), as Göthe was then more than eighty years of
age. During all the time these two editions were published, other detached new works of Göthe
were also printed; as well as new editions of former books, &c. Who can now say that it was
20,000 crowns (thalers?) which the great poet received for each various performance?--No one.
And this for many reasons. Göthe always remained with M. Cotta on terms of polite acquaintanceship,
no more: there was no "My dear Murray" in their strictly business-like connexion. Göthe also
never wrote on such things, even in his biography or diary. But some talk was going around
in Germany, that for one of the editions of his complete works (there {30} appeared still many
volumes of posthumous), he received the above sum. I can assert on good authority, that Göthe,
foreseeing his increasing popularity even long after his death, stipulated with M. Cotta to
pay his heirs a certain sum for every new edition of either his complete or single works. One
of the recipients of these yet current accounts is Baron Wolfgang von Göthe, Attaché of the
Prussian Legation at Rome.

A FOREIGN SURGEON.

Charlotte Street, Bloomsbury Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Parallel Passages.--

 "The Father of the gods his glory shrouds,
  Involved in tempests and a night of clouds."--Dryden's Virgil.

UNEDA.

Unpublished Epitaphs.--I copied the following two epitaphs from monuments in the churchyard
of Llangerrig, Montgomeryshire, last autumn. They perhaps deserve printing from the slight
resemblance they bear to that in Melrose Churchyard, quoted in Vol. vii., pp. 676, 677.:

 "O earth, O earth! observe this well--
  That earth to earth shall come to dwell:
  Then earth in earth shall close remain
  Till earth from earth shall rise again."

 "From earth my body first arose;
  But here to earth again it goes.
  I never desire to have it more,
  To plague me as it did before."

P. H. FISHER.

The Colour of Ink in Writings.--My attention was called to this subject some years ago by an
attempt made in a judicial proceeding to prove that part of a paper produced was written at
a different time than the rest, because part differed from the rest in the shade of the ink.
The following conclusions have been the result of my observations upon the subject:

1. That if the ink of part of a writing is of a different shade, though of the same colour,
from that of the other parts, we cannot infer from that circumstance alone that the writing
was done at different times. Ink taken from the top of an inkstand will be lighter than that
from the bottom, where the dregs are; the deeper the pen is dipped into the ink, the darker
the writing will be.

2. Writing performed with a pen that has been used before, will be darker than that with a
new pen; for the dry residuum of the old ink that is encrusted on the used pen will mix with
the new ink, and make it darker. And for the same reason--

3. Writing with a pen previously used will be darker at first than it is after the old deposit,
having been mixed up with the new ink, is used up.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

Literary Parallels.--Has it ever been noticed that the well-known epitaph, sometimes assigned
to Robin of Doncaster, sometimes to Edward Courtenay, third Earl of Devon, and I believe to
others besides: "What I gave, that I have," &c., has been anticipated by, if not imitated from,
Martial, book v. epigr.

The English is so much more terse and sententious, besides involving a much higher moral signification,
that it may well be an original itself; but in that case, the verbal coincidence is striking
enough.

J. S. WARDEN.

Latin Verses prefixed to Parish Registers.--On a fly-leaf in one of the registers of the parish
of Hawsted, Suffolk, is the following note in the handwriting of the Rev. Sir John Cullum,
the rector and historian of the parish:

    "Many old register books begin with some Latin lines, expressive of
    their design. The two following, in that of St. Saviour's at Norwich,
    are as good as any I have met with:

     'Janua, Baptismus; medio stat Tæda jugalis
        Utroque es felix, mors pia si sequitur.'"

Can any of your correspondents contribute other examples?

BURIENSIS.

Napoleon's Bees (Vol. vii., p. 535.).--No one, I believe, having addressed you farther on the
subject of the Napoleon Bees, the models of which are stated to have been found in the tomb
of Childeric when opened in 1653, "of the purest gold, their wings being inlaid with a red
stone, like a cornelian," I beg to mention that the small ornaments resembling bees found in
the tomb of Childeric, were only what in French are called fleurons (supposed to have been
attached to the harness of his war-horse). Handfuls of them were found when the tomb was opened
at Tournay, and sent to Louis XIV. They were deposited on a green ground at Versailles.

Napoleon wishing to have some regal emblem more ancient than the fleur-de-lys, adopted the
fleurons as bees, and the green ground as the original Merovingian colour.

This fact was related to me as unquestionable by Augustin Thierry, the celebrated historian,
when I was last in Paris.

WM. EWART.

University Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

{31}

Queries.

WAS THOMAS LORD LYTTELTON THE AUTHOR OF JUNIUS'S LETTERS?

In the Quarterly Review for 1852 (vol. xc. No. 179.) appeared a clever and speciously written
article on the long debated question of the identity of Junius, in which the writer labours
at great length to prove that Thomas, second Lord Lyttelton, who died in 1779, was the real
substance of the shadow of Junius, hitherto sought in vain. That this Lord Lyttelton was fully
competent to the task, I do not doubt; and that there are many points in his character which
may well be reconciled with the knowledge we possess of the imaginary Junius, I also admit--but
this is all. The author of the review has wholly failed, in my opinion, to prove his case and
the remark he makes on Mr. Britton's theory (as to Col. Barré) may equally well apply to his
own, namely, that it affords "a [another] curious instance of the delusion to which ingenious
men may resign themselves, when they have a favourite opinion to uphold!" The reviewer, indeed,
admits that he has "traced the parallel from the scantiest materials;" and in another passage
repeats, that but "few materials exist for a sketch of Thomas Lyttelton's life." Of these materials
used by the reviewer, the principal portion has been derived from the two volumes of letters
published in 1780 and 1782, attributed to Lord Lyttelton, but the authorship of which has since
been claimed for William Coombe. The reviewer argues, that they are "substantially genuine;"
but evidence, it is believed, exists to the contrary.[1] According to Chalmers, these letters
were "publicly disowned" by the executors of Lord Lyttelton; and this is confirmed by the notice
in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1780, p. 138., shortly after the publication of the first volume.
Putting aside, however, this moot-point (which, I trust, will be taken up by abler hands, as
it bears greatly on the theory advanced by the author of the Review), I proceed to another
and more conclusive line of argument. In the Preliminary Essay, prefixed to Woodfall's edition
of Junius, 1812 (vol. i. p. *46.), the following statement is made in regard to that writer,
the accuracy of which will scarcely be doubted:

    "There is another point in the history of his life, during his
    appearance as a public writer, which must not be suffered to pass by
    without observation: and that is, that during a great part of this
    time, from January 1769 to January 1772, he uniformly resided in
    London, or its immediate vicinity, and that he never quitted his stated
    habitation for a longer period than a few weeks."

Now, do the known facts of Thomas Lyttelton's life correspond with this statement or not? The
reviewer says, p. 115.:

    "For a period of three years after Mr. Lyttelton lost his
    seat[2]--that period during which Junius wrote his acknowledged
    compositions--we hardly find a trace of him in any of the
    contemporaneous letters or memoirs that have fallen under our
    observation."

But how is it, let me ask, that the author of the review has so studiously avoided all mention
of one work, which would at once have furnished traces of Thomas Lyttelton at this very period?
I allude to the volume of Poems by a Young Nobleman of distinguished Abilities, lately deceased,
published by G. Kearsley: London, 1780, 4to. Does not this look much like the suppressio veri
which follows close on the footsteps of the assertio falsi? It is hardly credible that the
reviewer should not be acquainted with this book, for he refers to the lines spoken in 1765,
at Stowe, in the character of Queen Mab, which form part of its contents; and the existence
of the work is expressly pointed out by Chalmers, and noticed by Lowndes, Watt, and other bibliographers.
Among the poems here published, are some which ought to have received a prominent notice from
the author of the review, if he had fairly stated the case. These are:

    1. Lines "to G----e Ed----d Ays----gh, Esq., [George Edward Ayscough,
    cousin to Thomas Lyttelton] from Venice, the 20th July, 1770."--P.
    22.

    2. "An Irregular Ode, wrote at Vicenza, in Italy, the 20th of August,
    1770."--P. 29.

    3. "On Mr. ----, at Venice, in J----, 1770."

    4. "An Invitation to Mrs. A----a D----, wrote at Ghent in Flanders,
    the 23rd of March, 1769."--P. 41.

    5. "An Extempore, by Lord Lyttelton, in Italy, anno 1770."--P. 48.

Admitting that these poems are genuine, it is evident that their author, Thomas Lyttelton,
was abroad in Flanders and Italy during the years 1769 and 1770; and consequently could not
have been the mysterious Junius, who in those years (particularly in 1769) was writing constantly
in or near London to Woodfall and the Public Advertiser. Of what value then is the assertion
so confidently made by the reviewer (p. 133.):

    "The position of Thomas Lyttelton in the five years from 1767 to 1772,
    is exactly such a one as it is reasonable to suppose that Junius held
    during the period of his writings;"

or how can it be made to agree with the fact of his residence on the Continent during the greater
part of the time?

{32}

The reviewer, indeed, tells us that "just as Junius concluded his great work, Thomas Lyttelton
returned to his father's house, and Chatham was one of the first to congratulate Lord Lyttelton
on the event." This was in February 1772; and in the Chatham Correspondence, vol. iv. p. 195.,
is Lord Lyttelton's letter of thanks in reply. The reviewer would evidently have it inferred,
that Thomas Lyttelton had returned home like a prodigal son, after a temporary estrangement,
and from a comparatively short distance; but surely, had the volume of Poems been referred
to, it might or rather must have occurred to a candid inquirer, that in February 1772 Thomas
Lyttelton returned from his travels on the Continent, after an absence of nearly three years!
But, perhaps, the authenticity of the Poems may at once be boldly denied? Is this the case?
Chalmers certainly includes them with the Letters, as having been "disowned" by Lord L.'s executors;
but says, "as to the Poems, they added, 'great part whereof are undoubtedly spurious.'" It
is certain, therefore, that some of the Poems are genuine; and it is a pity that the exceptions
were not specified, as the discussion might then have been confined within narrower limits.
The editor of the Poems, in his address "To the Reader," writes thus in vindication of them:

    "There is scarcely a line in the collection which does not bear
    testimony of its origin; the places and dates are also strong
    corroborations to such of his friends as he corresponded with on his
    last journey across the Alps. His style was elegant, and his ideas so
    animated, that spurious productions would be immediately detected."

This is the testimony of one who "had the honour of his friendship, which terminated only with
his death," and is not to be lightly rejected.[3] My own conviction is in favour of the authenticity
of the whole; but, at all events, I shall be able to offer undoubted evidence as to the genuineness
of part of the volume, and additional proof that the author was abroad at the precise time
when, if he were Junius, he must have resided in this country. By Thomas Lord Lyttelton's will
(dated Oct. 30, 1777), he appointed as his executors his brother-in-law Arthur Viscount Valentia,
his uncle William Henry Lord Westcote, and Wilson Aylesbury Roberts of Bewdley. To the latter
he left all his "letters, verses, speeches, and writings," with directions that, if published,
it should be for his sole emolument. The important Query therefore at once arises, what became
of these manuscripts, and were they destroyed or preserved?

The above Mr. Roberts was an intimate personal friend; and from his local influence as bailiff
and deputy-recorder of Bewdley, had no doubt contributed towards Thomas Lyttelton's return
for that borough in 1768. His son continued to keep up a close connexion with the Valentia
family at Arley Hall[4]; and this fact, coupled with the close proximity of Bewdley, Arley,
and Hagley, and the circumstance of the co-executorship of Lord Valentia and Mr. Roberts, would
make us naturally look to the library at Arley as a not unlikely place of deposit for Thomas
Lyttelton's papers. This is not mere conjecture, and brings me immediately to the point at
issue: for, at the sale of the Valentia Library at Arley Castle, in December last, a manuscript
volume made its appearance in a lot with others thus designated:

    "Original Diary of Travels [of Lord Valentia] 4 vols.; Five Memorandum
    Books of Journeys and Travels; also Two Old Folio Volumes of Original
    Poetic Pieces."

One of the folio volumes thus catalogued subsequently came into my hands, and is evidently
one of the manuscripts left by Thomas Lord Lyttelton's will to the care of Mr. Roberts, since
it consists wholly of pieces in verse and prose of his composition, written either in his own
hand, as rough draughts, or copied (apparently by a female scribe) and afterwards corrected
by himself. Among the poetry in this MS. I find the greater part of the long poem printed in
the edition of 1780, p. 1., entitled "The State of England in the year 2199," which is without
date in the MS., but in the edition bears date March 21, 1771; as likewise the "Invitation
to Miss Warb[u]rt[o]n," edit. p. 35., which appears in the MS. without any name; and the "Extempore
Rhapsody, March 21, 1771," edit. p. 37., also undated in the MS., but which supplies the name
of "Yates," expressed in the edition by asterisks; and also six lines at the end, which were
omitted in the edition on account of their indecency. There are several variations in the manuscript,
which prove that some other copy was followed by the printer; and many typographical errors
in the edition may hence be corrected. Besides these poems, the following pieces constitute
the chief contents of this manuscript volume:

    Draughts of four letters written by Thomas Lyttelton from Lyons, the
    first of which is dated September 10, 1769.

    Heads of a series of Dialogues, in imitation of "Dialogues of the
    Dead," by his father George, first Lord Lyttelton.

    Poetical Fragments, imitated from Lucretius.

    {33} Two letters addressed by Thomas Lyttelton to his father; and a
    third to "Dear George," probably his cousin George Edward Ayscough.

    Some Latin lines, not remarkable for their delicacy.

    Political letter, written from Milan, by Thomas Lyttelton; in which
    indignant notice is taken of the commital of Brass Crossby, Lord Mayor,
    which took place in March, 1771.

    Fragment of a poem on Superstition, and various other unfinished
    poetical scraps.

    Private memoranda of expenses.

    A page of writing in a fictitious or short-hand character, of which I
    can make nothing.

    Remarks, in prose, on the polypus, priestcraft, &c.

    Poem in French, of an amatory character.

    Portion of a remarkable political letter, containing some bitter
    remarks by Thomas Lyttelton on the "first minister." He ends thus: "The
    play now draws to a conclusion. I am guilty of a breach of trust in
    telling him so, but I shall [not] suffer by my indiscretion, for it is
    an absolute impossibility any man should divine who is the author of
    the letter signed ARUSPEX."

It would appear from the water-mark in the paper of which this MS. is composed, that it was
procured in Italy; and there can be little or no doubt it was used by Thomas Lyttelton as a
draught-book, during his travels there in 1769-1771; during which period, nearly the whole
of the contents seem to have been written. The evidence afforded therefore by this volume,
comes peculiarly in support of the dates and other circumstances put forth in the printed volume
of Poems; and leads us inevitably to the conclusion, that it was utterly impossible for Thomas
Lyttelton to have had any share in the Letters of Junius. He has enough to answer for on the
score of his early profligacy and scepticism, without being dragged from the grave to be arraigned
for the crime of deceit. His heart need not, according to the reviewer, be "stripped bare"
by the scalpel of any literary anatomist; but he may be left to that quiet and oblivion which
a sepulchre in general bestows. Before I conclude these remarks (which I fear are too diffuse),
I will venture to add a few words in regard to the signature of Thomas Lord Lyttelton. In the
Chatham Correspondence, a letter from him to Earl Temple is printed, vol. iv. p. 348., the
signature to which is printed LYTTLETON, and the editors point out in a note the "alteration
adopted" in the spelling of the name; but it is altogether an error, for the fac-simile of
this signature in vol. iv. p. 29., as well as his will in the Prerogative Court, prove that
he wrote his name Lyttelton, in the same manner as his father and uncle. As to the resemblance
pointed out by the author of the Review between the handwriting of Thomas Lyttelton and that
of Junius, it exists only in imagination, since there is really no similitude whatever between
them.

Some Queries are now annexed, in reference to what has been above discussed:

1. In what publication or in what form did the executors of Thomas Lord Lyttelton disown the
Letters and Poems?

2. Is it known who was the editor of the Poems published in 1780?

3. Can the present representative of the family of Roberts give any farther information respecting
Thomas Lord Lyttelton's manuscripts?

4. Lastly, Is any letter known to exist in the public journals of the years 1770, 1771, under
the signature of ARUSPEX?

F. MADDEN.

British Museum.

[Footnote 1: I have been unable to refer to these letters, as no copy exists in the British
Museum library.]

[Footnote 2: As M.P. for Bewdley. He was returned in 1768, and unseated in January, 1769.]

[Footnote 3: In the Public Advertiser for January 1, 1779 [1780], appeared a notice of the
Poems, said to have been "published yesterday;" and although two pieces are extracted at length,
not a syllable of doubt is expressed as to their genuineness.]

[Footnote 4: The estate at Arley was left to the Hon. George Annesley (afterwards Earl of Mountnorris),
son of Lord Valentia, by the will of Thomas Lord Lyttelton, and Mr. Roberts was one of the
trustees appointed.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Lord Chatham.--I would suggest as a Query, whether Lord Chatham's famous comparison of the
Fox and Newcastle ministry to the confluence of the Rhone and Saone at Lyons (Speech, Nov.
13, 1755), was not adapted from a passage in Lord Roscommon's Essay on translated Verse. Possibly
Lord Chatham may have merely quoted the lines of Roscommon, and reporters may have converted
his quotation into prose. Lord Chatham (then of course Mr. Pitt) is represented to have said:

    "I remember at Lyons to have been carried to the conflux of the Rhone
    and the Soane: the one a gentle, feeble, languid stream, and, though
    languid, of no depth; the other, a boisterous and impetuous torrent."

W. EWART.

University Club.

Slow-worm Superstition.--Could any of your correspondents kindly inform me whether there is
any foundation for the superstition, that if a slow-worm be divided into two or more parts,
those parts will continue to live till sunset (life I suppose to mean that tremulous motion
which the divided parts, for some time after the cruel operation, continue to have), and whether
it exists in any other country or county besides Sussex, in which county I first heard of it?

TOWER.

Tangiers (Vol. vii., p. 12.).--I have not seen any opinion as to these Queries.

A. C.

Snail Gardens.--What are the continental enclosures called snail gardens?

C. M. T.

Oare.

Naples and the Campagna Felice.--Who was the author of letters bearing this title, which {34}
originally appeared in Ackermann's Repository, and were published in a collected form in 1815?

In a catalogue of Jno. Miller's (April, 1853), I see them attributed to Combe.

Q.

Philadelphia.

"The Land of Green Ginger"--the name of a street in Hull. Can any of your correspondents inform
me why so called?

R. H. B.

Mugger.--Why are the gipsies in the North of England called Muggers? Is it because they sell
mugs, and other articles of crockery, that in fact being their general vocation? or may not
the word be a corruption of Maghrabee, which is, I think, a foreign name given to this wandering
race?

H. T. RILEY.

Snail-eating.--Can any of your correspondents inform me in what part of Surrey a breed of large
white snails is still to be found, the first of which were brought to this country from Italy,
by a member, I think, of the Arundel family, to gratify the palate of his wife, an Italian
lady? I have searched Britton and Brayley's History in vain.

H. T. RILEY.

Mysterious Personage.--Who is the mysterious personage, what is his real or assumed lineage,
who has, not unfrequently, been alluded to in recent newspaper articles as a legitimate Roman
Catholic claimant of the English throne? Of course I do not allude to those pseudo-Stuarts,
the brothers Hay Allan.

W. PINKERTON.

George Wood of Chester.--Of what family was George Wood, Esq., Justice of Chester in the first
year of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, 1558?

CESTRIENSIS.

A Scale of Vowel Sounds.--Can any correspondent tell me if such scale has anywhere been agreed
on for scientific purposes? Researches into the philosophy of philology are rendered excessively
complex by the want of such a scale, every different inquirer adopting a peculiar notation,
which is a study in itself, and which, after all, is unsatisfactory. I should feel obliged
by any reference to what has been done in this matter.

E. C.

Seven Oaks and Nine Elms.--Can any reader of "N. & Q." inform me whether there is any old custom
or superstition connected with Seven Oaks and Nine Elms, even to be traced as far back as the
time of the Druids?

In some old grounds in Warwickshire there is a circle of nine old elm-trees; and, besides the
well-known Nine Elms at Vauxhall, and Seven Oaks in Kent, there are several other places of
the same names in England.

J. S. A.

Old Broad Street.

Murder of Monaldeschi.--I will thank any of your correspondents who can give me an account
of the murder of Monaldeschi, equerry to Christina, Queen of Sweden.

In the 2nd volume of Miss Pardoe's Louis XIV. (p. 177.), Christina is stated to have visited
the Court of France, and housed at Fontainebleau, where she had not long been an inmate ere
the tragedy of Monaldeschi took place and in a letter to Mazarin she says, "Those who acquainted
you with the details regarding Monaldeschi were very ill-informed."

T. C. T.

Governor Dameram.--I should be glad of any particulars respecting the above, who was Governor
of Canada (I think) about the commencement of the present century. He had previously been the
head of the commissariat department in the continental expeditions.

TEE BEE.

Ancient Arms of the See of York.--Can any correspondent enlighten me as to the period, and
why, the present arms were substituted for the ancient bearings of York? The modern coat is,
Gu. two keys in saltire arg., in chief an imperial crown proper. The ancient coat was blazoned,
Az. an episcopal staff in pale or, and ensigned with a cross patée arg., surmounted by a pall
of the last, edged and fringed of the second, charged with six crosses formée fitchée sa.,
and differed only from that of Canterbury in the number of crosses formée fitchée with which
the pall was charged.

TEE BEE.

Hupfeld.--Can any correspondent of "N. & Q." tell me where I can see Hupfeld, Von der Natur
und den Arten der Sprachlaute, which is quoted by several German authors? It appeared in Jahn's
Jahrb. der Philol. und Päd., 1829. If no correspondent can refer me to any place where the
paper can be seen in London, perhaps they can direct me to some account of its substance in
some English publication.

E. C.

Inscription on a Tomb in Finland.--Can any reader of "N. & Q." explain the meaning of the following
inscription?

 "IETATIS IN SUBDITOS
        MARTYRI
   .`IET:S CONIUGALIS
       :: :::IV."

It appears on an old monument of considerable size in a Finnish burial-ground at Martishkin
near Peterhoff on the Gulf of Finland. The letters are in brass on a stone slab. The dots before
the IV., and in the other word, are holes in the stone wherein the missing characters had been
fixed.

J. S. A.

Old Broad Street.

Sir Isaac Newton and Voltaire on Railway Travelling.--Having been
forcibly impressed by a {35} paragraph in a popular periodical (The
Leisure Hour, No. 72.), I am desirous of learning upon what authority the
statements therein depend. But who is the dotard
    now?--Rev. J. Craig."

The Query I would more particularly ask is (presuming the accuracy of the assertions), What
is the prophecy so wonderfully fulfilled?

R. W.

Tom Thumb's House at Gonerby, Lincolnshire.--On the south-west side of the tower of the church
of Great Gonerby, Lincolnshire, is a curious cornice representing a house with a door in the
centre, an oriel window, &c., which is popularly called "Tom Thumb's Castle." I have a small
engraving of it ("W. T. del. 1820, R. R. sculpt."): and a pencil states that on the same tower
are other "curious carvings."

I would ask, therefore, Why carved? From what event or occasion? For whom? Why called "Tom
Thumb's House?" And what are the other curious carvings?

G. CREED.

Mr. Payne Collier's Monovolume Shakspeare.--I should be extremely obliged to MR. COLLIER, if
he would kindly give me a public reply to the following question.

The express terms of the publication of his monovolune edition of Shakspeare, as advertised, were--

    "The text regulated by the old copies, and by the recently
    discovered folio of 1632."

These terms manifestly exclude corrections from any other source than those of collation of
the old copies, and the MS. corrections of the folio of 1632.

Now the text of MR. COLLIER'S monovolume reprint contains many of the emendations of the commentators
not referred to in Notes and Emendations. For example: in The Taming of the Shrew, where Biondello
runs in to announce the coming down the hill of the "ancient angel" (changed by the corrector
into ambler), two other alterations in the same sentence appear without explanation in the
regulated text, namely, mercatante substituted by Steevens for "marcantant" of the folios;
and surely in lieu of "surly," which latter is the word of the folio of 1632.

I now ask MR. COLLIER, on what authority were these emendations adopted?

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

WILD PLANTS AND THEIR NAMES.

(Vol. vii., pp. 175. 233.)

Perhaps the following may prove of some use to ENIVRI, in reply to his Query respecting the
names of certain wild flowers.

1. Shepherd's Purse (Bursa pastoris). "Sic dict. a folliculis seminum, qui crumenulam referre
videntur." Also called Poor Man's Parmacitty, "Quia ad contusos et casu afflictos instar spermatis
ceti utile est." Also St. James's Wort, "Quia circa ejus festum florescit," July 28th. Also
called Pick-purse.

2. Eye-bright, according to Skinner (Euphrasia), Teut. Augentrost; "Oculorum solamen, quia
visum eximiè acuit." Fluellin (Veronica femina), "Forte a Leolino aliquo Cambro-Brit. ejus
inventore."

3. Pass Wort, or Palsy Wort (Primula veris). "Herba paralyseos."

4. Guelder Rose (Sambucus rosea). "Quia ex Gueldriâ huc translata est." Gueldria is, or rather
was, a colony, founded by the Hollanders, on the coast of Coromandel.

5. Ladies' Tresses, a corruption of traces. A kind of orchis, and used, with its various appellations,
"sensu obsc."

6. The Kentish term Gazel is not improbably the same as Gale, which, Skinner says, is from
the A.-S. Gagel (Myrtus brabantica).

7. Stitch Wort (Gramen leucanthemum, alias Holostium pumilum). "Sic dict. quia ad dolores laterum
punctorios multum prodesse creditur."

8. The term Knappert, for Bitter Vetch, is probably a corruption of Knap Wort, the first syllable
of which, as in Knap Weed and Knap Bottle, is derived from the sound or snap emitted by it
when struck in the hollow of the hand.

9. Charlock (Rapum sylvestre); Anglo-Saxon Cerlice. {36}

10. London Pride or Tufts (Armeria prolifera). "Sic dict. quia flores propter pulchritudinem
Londini valdè expetuntur." (?)

11. Avens; also Herb Bennet (Caryophyllata). Skinner says, "Herba Benedicta ab insigni radicis
vulnerariâ vi." (?)

12. Mill Mountain, or Purge Flax (Linum sylvestre catharticum, or Chamælinum). "Montibus gaudet."

13. Jack of the Buttery. "Sedi species sic dict. quia in tecto galacterii crescit." Pricket:
"a sapore acri."

14. Cudweed or Cotton Weed; Live-long. "Quia planta perennis est."

15. Sun Spurge. "Quia flores ad ortum solis se aperiunt." Churn Staff, from its similarity.

16. Welcome to our House (Tithymalus Cyparissias). "Ob pulchritudinem suam omnibus expetitus."

17. Ruddes (Fl. Calendulæ). "A colore aureo." Wild or Corn Marigold. "Q. d. aurum Mariæ, a
colore sc. floris luteo." Gouls or Goulans, with a half-suppressed d, may very well be supposed
to indicate its natural name--Gold. Another name of this plant is Lockron, or Locker Goulans.

18. Spurry (Spergula). "Sic dict. quia folia ejus octo, angusta, stelliformia, radios calcaris
satis exactè referunt."

19. Mercury Goose-foot. Probably a goose-foot resembling Mercury (Mercurialis), a herb concerning
which Skinner doubts, but suggests, "Quia Mercurio, ut ceteræ omnes plantæ planetis, appropriata
sit." Another name is Good Henry,--I find not Good King Henry--(Lapathum unctuosum), "A commodo
ejus usu in enematis." It is also called All-good, forasmuch as it is useful, not only for
its medicinal qualities, but also in supplying the table with a substitute for other vegetables,
such as asparagus.

A plant termed in this country Gang Flower is the same as Rogation Flower, recalling the perambulation
of parishes on one of those days. There is a vast fund of interesting matter in these old names
of wild flowers (mixed up, of course, with much that is trifling); and I cordially agree with
your correspondent, that it is well worth a steady effort to rescue the fast-fading traditions
relating to them. It must be confessed, however, that the obstacles in the way of tracing the
original meaning and supposed virtues, will in many instances be found very great, arising
principally from the fanciful translations and corruptions which our ancestors made of the
old names. Take, for instance, the following:

Loose Strife or Herb Willow, from Lysimachia, the original being undoubtedly a man's name,
Lysimachus.

Ale-hoof (Hedera terrestris). Anglo-Saxon Al behófian. "Herba [Greek: panchrêstos], ad multos
usus efficacissima."

Herb Ambrose has a Greek origin, [Greek: ambrotos], and is not indebted to the saint of that name.

Comfrey or Cumfrey. "Herba vulnera conferruminans;" good for joining the edges of a wound.

Calathian Violets. Simply cupped violets, from [Greek: kalathos].

Brank Ursin (Acanthus). "It. brancha, unguis ursinus."

Blood Strange; properly, String. To stanch.

Bertram. A corruption of [Greek: purethron] (Pyrethrum).

Spreusidany, Hair-strong, Sulphur Wort. Corrupted from Peucedanum.

Pell-a-mountain, Wild Thyme. From Serpyllum montanum.

Faceless. From Phaseolus, dim. of Phaselus; so called from its shallop shape.

Stick-a-dove, French Lavender. From [Greek: stoichas, stoichados], Stoechas; so called from
the regularity of the petals.

Such instances might be multiplied to almost any extent.

There is, doubtless, a good deal of scattered information respecting old English wild flowers
to be met with, not only in books, but also among our rural population, stored up by village
sages. Contributions of this description would surely be welcome in "N. & Q."

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Herbs of all kinds were, some two hundred years ago, esteemed of much value as medicine; for
in a curious, and I believe rather scarce, pharmacopoeia by Wm. Salmon, date 1693, I find some
414 pages devoted to their uses. This pharmacopoeia, or Compleat English Physician, was dedicated
to Mary, second Queen of England, Scotland, France, Ireland, &c., and appears to have been
the first. The preface says "it was the first of that kind extant in the world, a subject for
which we have no precedent."

    "I have not trusted," he says, "to the reports of authors, but have
    wrote as an eye-witness in describing most things therein; and it is
    nothing but what I know and have learnt by daily experience for thirty
    years together, so that my prescriptions may in some measure plead a
    privilege above the performances of other men."

1. Capsella (Bursa pastoris) he describes as cold 1^o, and dry in 2^o, binding and astringent.
Good against spitting of blood or hæmorrhage of the nose, and other fluxes of the bowels. The
leaves, of which [dr.]j. in powder may be given. The juice inspissate, drunk with wine, helps
ague. A cataplasm applied in inflammations, Anthony's fire, &c., represses them.

2. Veronica Chamædrys he calls Euphrasia, Euphrosunee, and says it is much commended by Arnoldus
de Villa Nova, who asserts that it not only helps dimness of the sight, but the use of it {37}
makes old men to read small letters without spectacles, who could scarcely read great letters
with spectacles before; but that it did restore their sight who had been a long time blind.
Truly a most wonderful plant; and, if he freely used it, must have been a great drawback to
spectacle-makers.

3. Primula veris, he says, more properly belongs to the primrose than cowslip. The root is
haumatic, and helps pains in the back. The herb is cephalic, neurotic, and arthritic. The juice
or essence, with spirits of wine, stops all manner of fluxes, is excellent against palsy, gout,
and pains, and distempers of the nerves and joints. A cataplasm of the juice, with rye meal,
is good against luxations and ruptures. The flowers are good against palsy, numbness, convulsions,
and cramps, being given in a sulphurous or a saline tincture, or an oily tincture, or an essence
of the juice with spirits of wine. The juice of the flowers, or an ointment of the flower or
its juice, cleanses the skin from spots, though the worthy old physician only gives a receipt
for making essence as follows: Beat the whole plant well in a mortar; add to it an equal quantity
of brandy or spirits of wine; close up tight in a large bolt-head, and set it to digest in
a very gentle sand-heat for three months. Strain out all the liquor, which close up in a bolt-head
again, and digest in a gentle sand-heat for two months more. Rather a troublesome and slow
process this.

4. Geum urbanum he calls Caryophyllata, Herba benedicta, and Geum Plinii, and should be gathered,
he says, in the middle of March, for then it smells sweetest, and is most aromatic. Hot and
dry in the 2^o, binding, strengthening, discussive, cephalic, neurotic, and cardiac. Is a good
preservative against epidemic and contagious disease; helps digestion. The powder of the root,
dose [dr.]j. The decoction, in wine, stops spitting of blood, dose [dr.]ss to [dr.]jss. The
saline tincture opens all obstructions of the viscera, dose [dr.]j to [dr.]iij.

Should ENIVRI wish to know the medical virtues of our wild plants, I have no doubt but that
this worthy old physician will tell him what virtues they were considered to possess in his
day, at least by himself; and I can assure him that 1195 of the English Physician's pages ascribe
marvellous properties, not only to plants, but to animals, fish, and even the bones of a stag's
heart.

R. J. SHAW.

       *       *       *       *       *

JACOB BOBART.

(Vol. vii., pp. 428. 578.)

I am exceedingly obliged for the information afforded by DR. E. F. RIMBAULT concerning the
Bobarts. Can he give me any more communication concerning them? I am anxious to learn all I
can. I have old Jacob Bobart's signature, bearing date 1659, in which he spells his name with
an e instead of a, which seems to have been altered to an a by his son Jacob.

In Vertumnus it says Bobart's Hortes Siccus was in twenty volumes; but the Oxford Botanic Garden
Guide only mentions twelve quarto volumes: which is correct, and where is it? In one of my
copies of Vertumnus, a scrap of paper is fixed to p. 29., and the following is written upon it:

    "The Hortus Siccus here alluded to was sold at the Rev. Mr.
    Hodgkinson's sale at Sarsden, to Mrs. De Salis, wife of Dr. De Salis."

Is there any pedigree of the family?

In a letter of Jno. Ray's to Mr. Aubrey is the following:

    "I am glad that Mr. Bobart hath been so diligent in observing and
    making a collection of insects."

Is there any collection extant?

    "He may give me much assistance in my intended Synopsis of our English
    Animals, and contribute much to the perfecting of it."

Did he do so?

Is the print of old Jacob Bobart, by W. Richardson, valuable?

Where can I pick up a print of him by Loggan del., Burghers sculp.? There is a portrait of
Jacob Bobart the younger in Oxford Almanack for 1719; can I procure it?

H. T. BOBART.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERALDIC QUERIES.

(Vol. vii., p. 571.)

CEYREP is informed, 1st, That a shield in the form of a lozenge was appropriated exclusively
to females, both spinsters and widows, in order to distinguish the sex of the bearer of a coat
of arms. It is of doubtful origin, though supposed, from the form, to symbolise the spindle
with yarn wound round it; of good authority, and not of very modern date. Many instances may
be seen in Fuller, in the coats of arms appended to the dedications of the various chapters
of his Church History. In sect. ii. book vi. p. 282. ed. 1655, he has separated the coats of
man and wife, and placed them side by side; that of the latter upon a lozenge-shaped shield--Party
per pale arg. and gules, two eagles displayed, counterchanged.

2ndly, No one has a right to inscribe a motto upon a garter or riband, except those dignified
with one of the various orders of knighthood. For any other person to do so, is a silly assumption.
The motto should be upon a scroll, either over the crest, or beneath the shield.

3rdly, I cannot find that it was ever the custom in this country for ecclesiastics to bear
their paternal coat on an oval or circular shield. Forbidden, as they were, by the first council
of {38} Mascon, Bingham, vi. 421., in the Excerptions of Ecgbright, A.D. 740, Item 154., and
the Constitutions of Othobon, A.D. 1268, can. 4., to bear arms for the purposes of warfare,
it is a question whether any below the episcopal order ought, in strict right, to display any
armorial ensigns at all. Archbishops and bishops bear the arms of their sees impaled (as of
their spouse) with their own paternal coats; the latter probably only in right of their baronies.
It is worthy of remark that, since the Reformation, and consequent marriage of bishops, there
has been no official decision as to the bearing the arms of their wives, nor has any precedence
been granted to the latter.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford. 585.)

A few years ago I copied the following inscription from over the door of the residence of a
parish priest at Cologne:

 "Protege Deus parochiam hanc propter
  Te et S.S. tuum, sicut protexisti
  Jerusalem propter Te et David servum
  tuum. IV Reg. xx. 6.
              A.D. 1787."

From the gateway leading into the Villa Borghese, just outside of the "Porta del Popolo," at
Rome, I copied the following:

       "Villæ Burghesiæ Pincianæ
             Custos hæc edico.
           Quisquis es, si liber
       legum compedes ne hic timeas.
     Ite quo voles, carpite quæ voles,
           Abite quando voles.
        Exteris magis hæc parantur
                quam hero.
     In aureo sæculo ubi cuncta aurea
         temporum securitas fecit
               bene morato:
      Hospiti ferreas leges præfigere
               herus velat.
        Sit hic pro amico, pro lege
             honesta voluntas.
  Verum si quis dolo malo, lubens, sciens
     aureas urbanitatis leges fregerit,
              Caveat ne sibi
   Tesseram amicitiæ subiratus villicus
            advorsum frangat."

On the entrance into the Villa Medici are the two following:

 "Aditurus hortos hospes, in
        summo ut vides
   colle hortulorum consitos,
        si forte quid
   audes probare, scire debes
           hos hero
  herique amicis esse apertos
           omnibus."

 "Ingressurus hospes hosce quos
            ingentibus
    instruxit hortos sumptibus
           suis Medices
    Fernandus expleare visendo
             licet:
     atque his fruendo plura
         Velle nondecet."

The following I copied from a gateway leading into a vineyard near the church of San Eusebio,
at Rome:

 "Tria sunt mirabilia;
     Trinus et unus,
      Deus et homo,
     Virgo et mater."

CEYREP.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONSECRATED ROSES.

(Vol. vii., pp. 407. 480.)

I forward the accompanying observations on the origin of the Rosa d'Oro, in compliance with
the request contained at page 480. of the 185th No. of "N. & Q.," in case they should not have
come under your observation. They are to be found in Histoire de Lorraine, par R. P. Dom. Calmet:
Nancy, 1745.

    "Le troisième monastère fondé par les parens de St. Leon est l'Abbaye
    de Volfenheim, à deux lieues de Colmar, vers le Midi, et à deux lieues
    environs d'Egesheim, château des Comtes de Dasbourg, aujourd'hui (1745)
    inhabité, mais bien remarquable par ces vastes ruines, sur le sommet
    des montagnes qui dominent sur l'Alsace.

    "Volfenheim étoit un village considérable, à une lieue et demi de
    Colmar. On voie encore aujourd'hui à une demi lieue de Sainte Croix
    dans les champs, l'église qui lui servoit autrefois de paroisse.
    L'abbaye étoit à quelque distance de là, au lieu où est aujourd'hui le
    bourg de Sainte Croix.

    "Volfenheim ayant étoit [Quære, été] ruiné par les guerres, les
    habitans se sont insensiblement établis autour de l'abbaye, ce qui a
    formé un bon bourg, connu sous le nom de Sainte Croix; parceque
    l'abbaye étoit consacrée sous cette invocation. Le Pape Leon IX., dans
    la Bulle qu'il donna à ce monastère la première année de son
    pontificat, de J. C. 1049, nous apprend qu'il avoit été fondé par son
    père Hughes et sa mère Heilioilgdis, et ses frères Gerard et Hugues,
    qui étoient déjà décédés; il ajoûte que ce lieu lui étoit tombé par
    droit de succession; il le met sous la protection spéciale du Saint
    Siége, en sorte que nulle personne, de quelque qualité qu'elle soit,
    n'y exerce aucune autorité, mais qu'il jouisse d'une pleine liberté, et
    que l'abbesse et les religieuses puissent employer quelque evêque ils
    jugeroient apropos pour les bénédictions d'autels, et autres fonctions
    qui regardent le ministère épiscopal: que son neveu, le Comte Henri
    Seigneur d'Egesheim, en soit la voue, et après lui, l'aîné des
    Seigneurs d'Egesheim à perpétuité.

    "Que si cette race vient à manquer, l'abbesse et le couvent choisiront
    quelque autre de la parenté de ces {39} seigneurs, afin que l'avocatie
    ne soit pas de leur race, et qu'après la mort de Kuentza, qui en étoit
    abbesse, et à qui le Pape avoit donné la bénédiction abbatiale, les
    religieuses choisissent de leur communauté, ou d'ailleurs, celle qui
    leur paroîtra la plus propre, reservant toujours au Pape le droit de la
    bénir. Et en reconnaissance d'un privilège si singulier, l'abbesse
    donnera tous les ans au Saint Siége une Rose d'Or du poids de deux
    onces Romaines. Elle l'envoyera toute faite, ou en envoyera la matière
    préparée, de telle sorte qu'elle soit rendue au Pape huit jours
    auparavant qu'il la porte, c'est-à-dire, le Dimanche de Carême, où l'on
    chante à l'Introite, 'Oculi mei semper ad Dominum;' afin qu'il puisse
    bénir au Dimanche 'Lætare,' qui est le quatrième du Carême. Telle est
    l'origine de la Rose d'Or, que le Pape bénit encore aujourd'hui le
    quatrième Dimanche de Carême, nommé 'Lætare,' et qu'il envoye à quelque
    prince pour marque d'estime et de bienveillance. Ce jour-là, la station
    se fait à Sainte Croix de Jérusalem. Le Pape, accompagné des cardinaux,
    vetûs de couleur de rose, marche en cavalcade à l'eglise, tenant la
    Rose d'Or à la main. Il la porte, allant à l'autel, chargé de baume et
    de mare. Il la quitte au 'Confiteor,' et la reprend après 'l'Introite.'
    Il en fait la Bénédiction, et après l'Evangile, il monte en chaise et
    explique les propriétés de la rose. Après la Messe il retourne en
    cavalcade à son palais, ayant toujours la Rose en main et la couronne
    sur la tête. On appelle ce Dimanche 'Pascha rosata,' ou 'Lætare.'

    "Nous avons encore un sermon du Pape Innocent III., composé en cette
    occasion, an commencement du treizième siècle. Le Pape Nicholas IV., en
    1290, dans le dénombrement qu'il fait des églises qui doivent des
    redevances à l'église de Rome, met le monastère de Sainte Croix,
    diocèse de Basle, qui doit deux onces d'or pour la Rose d'Or, qui se
    bénit au Dimanche Lætere, Jérusalem."

P. P. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON SERPENTS.

(Vol. ii., p. 130.; Vol. vi., p. 177.--Vol. iii., p. 490.; Vol. vi., pp. 42. 147.)

Loskiel, in his account of the Moravian missions to the North American Indians[5], tells us that,--

    "The Indians are remarkably skilled in curing the bite of venomous
    serpents, and have found a medicine peculiarly adapted to the bite of
    each species. For example, the leaf of the Rattlesnake-root (Polygala
    senega) is the most efficacious remedy against the bite of this
    dreadful animal. God has mercifully granted it to grow in the greatest
    plenty in all parts most infested by the rattlesnake. It is very
    remarkable that this herb acquires its greatest perfection just at the
    time when the bite of these serpents is the most dangerous....
    Virginian Snake-root (Aristolochia serpentaria) chewed, makes also an
    excellent poultice for wounds of this sort.... The fat of the serpent
    itself, rubbed into the wound, is thought to be efficacious. The flesh
    of the rattlesnake, dried and boiled to a broth, is said to be more
    nourishing than that of the viper, and of service in consumptions.
    Their gall is likewise used as medicine."--P. 146.

Pigs are excepted from the dreadful effects of their bite; they will even attack and eat them.
It is said that, if a rattlesnake is irritated and cannot be revenged, it bites itself, and
dies in a few hours:

    "Wird dieses Thier zornig gemacht, und es kann sich nicht rächen, so
    beiszt es sich selbst, und in wenig Stunden ist es todt."--P. 113.[6]

    "I have seen some of our Canadians eat these rattlesnakes repeatedly.
    The flesh is very white, and they assured me had a delicious taste.
    Their manner of dressing them is very simple.... Great caution,
    however, is required in killing a snake for eating; for if the first
    blow fails, or only partially stuns him, he instantly bites himself in
    different parts of the body, which thereby become poisoned, and would
    prove fatal to any person who should partake of it."--Cox's Adv. on
    the Columbia River: Lond. 1832, p. 74.

    "Dr. Fordyce knew the black servant of an Indian merchant in America,
    who was fond of soup made of rattlesnakes, in which he always boiled
    the head along with the rest of the animal, without any regard to the
    poisons."--Rees's Cyclopædia.

    "There is a religious sect in Africa, not far from Algiers, which eat
    the most venomous serpents alive; and certainly, it is said, without
    extracting their fangs. They declare they enjoy the privilege from
    their founder. The creatures writhe and struggle between their teeth;
    but possibly, if they do bite them, the bite is innocuous."

Mrs. Crowe, in the concluding chapter of her Night-side of Nature, gives the testimony of an
eye-witness to "the singular phenomenon to be observed by placing a scorpion and a mouse together
under a glass."

    "It is known that stags renew their age by eating serpents; so the
    phoenix is restored by the nest of spices she makes to burn in. The
    pelican hath the same virtue, whose right foot, if it be put under hot
    dung, after three months a pelican will be bred from it. Wherefore some
    physicians, with some confections made of a viper and hellebore, and
    of some of the flesh of these creatures, do promise to restore youth,
    and sometimes they do it."[7]

On reading any of our old herbalists, one would imagine that serpents (and those of the worst
kind) abounded in "Merrie Englande," and that they were the greatest bane of our lives. It
is {40} hard to stumble on a plant that is not an antidote to the bite of serpents. Our old
herbals were compiled, however, almost entirely from the writings of the ancients, and from
foreign sources. The ancients had a curious notion relative to the plant Basil (Oscimum basilicum),
viz., "That there is a property in Basil to propagate scorpions, and that the smell thereof
they are bred in the brains of men." Others deny this wonderful property, and make Basil a
simple antidote.

    "According unto Oribasius, physician unto Julian, the Africans, men
    best experienced in poisons, affirm, whosoever hath eaten Basil,
    although he be stung with a scorpion, shall feel no pain thereby, which
    is a very different effect, and rather antidotally destroying than
    seminally promoting its production."--Sir Thomas Browne, Vulgar
    Errors.

An old writer gives the following anecdote in point:

    "Francis Marcio, an eminent statesman of Genoa, having sent an
    ambassador from that republic to the Duke of Milan, when he could
    neither procure an audience of leave from that prince, nor yet prevail
    with him to ratify his promises made to the Genoese, taking a fit
    opportunity, presented a handful of the herb Basil to the duke. The
    duke, somewhat surprised, asked what that meant? 'Sir,' replied the
    ambassador, 'this herb is of that nature, that if you handle it gently
    without squeezing, it will emit a pleasant and grateful scent; but if
    you squeeze and gripe it, 'twill not only lose its colour, but it will
    become productive of scorpions in a little time."--The Entertainer:
    London, 1717, p. 23.

Pliny tells us that a decoction from the leaves of the ash tree, given as a drink, is such
a remedy that "nothing so soveraigne can be found against the poison of serpents;" and farther:

    "That a serpent dare not come neare the shaddow of that tree. The
    serpent will chuse rather to goe into the fire than to flie from it to
    the leaves of the ash. A wonderful goodnesse of Dame Nature, that the
    ash doth bloome and flourish alwaies before that serpents come abroad,
    and never sheddeth leaves, but continueth green untill they be retired
    into their holes, and hidden within the ground."

The ancient opinion respecting the rooted antipathy between the ash and the serpent is not
to be explained merely by the fact in natural history of its being an antidote, but it has
a deeply mythical meaning. See, in the Prose Edda, the account of the ash Yggdrasill, and the
serpents gnawing its roots. Loskiel corroborates Pliny as to the ash being an antidote:

    "A decoction of the buds or bark of the white ash (Fraxinus carolina)
    taken inwardly is said to be a certain remedy against the effects of
    poison," i.e. of the rattlesnake.

Serpents afford Pliny a theme for inexhaustible wonders. The strangest of his relations perhaps
is where he tells us that serpents, "when they have stung or bitten a man, die for very greefe
and sorrow that they have done such a mischeefe." He makes a special exception, however, of
the murderous salamander, who has no such "pricke and remorse of conscience," but would "destroy
whole nations at one time," if not prevented. In this same book (xxix.) he gives a receipt
for making the famous theriacum, or treacle, of vipers' flesh. Another strange notion of the
ancients was "that the marrow of a man's backe bone will breed to a snake" (Hist. Nat., x.
66.). This perhaps, originally, had a mystic meaning; for a great proportion of the innumerable
serpent stories have a deeper foundation than a credulous fancy or lively imagination.

Take, for instance, the wide-spread legend of the sea-serpent. Mr. Deane says,--

    "The superstition of 'the serpent in the sea' was known to the Chinese,
    as we observed in the chapter on the 'Serpent-worship of China.' But it
    was doubtless, at one time, a very general superstition among the
    heathens, for we find it mentioned by Isaiah, ch. xxvii.

In Blackwood's Magazine, vol. ii. p. 645., vol. iv. pp. 33. 205., may be found some interesting
papers on the "Scrakin, or Great Sea Serpent."

Mr. Deane's Worship of the Serpent (London, 1830); and The Cross and the Serpent, by the Rev.
Wm. Haslam (London, 1849), are noble works both of them, and ought to be in the hands of every
Christian scholar. In these two words, "Cross" and "Serpent," we have an epitome of the history
of the world and the human race, as well as the ground-work for all our hopes and fears. In
them are bound up the highest mysteries, the truest symbolism, the deepest realities, and our
nearest and dearest interests.

Lord Bacon thus narrates the classical fable which accounts for the serpent's being gifted
with the power of restoring youth:

    "The gods, in a merry mood, granted unto men not only the use of fire,
    but perpetual youth also, a boon most acceptable and desirable. They
    being as it were overjoyed, did foolishly lay this gift of the gods
    upon the back of an ass, who, being wonderfully oppressed with thirst
    and near a fountain, was told by a serpent (which had the custody
    thereof) that he should not drink unless he would promise to give him
    the burthen that was on his back. The silly ass accepted the condition,
    and so the restoration of youth (sold for a draught of water)
    passed from men to serpents."--The Wisdom of the Ancients
    (Prometheus, xxvi.).

That this, as well as the whole of the legend relating to Prometheus, is a confused account
of an early tradition relative to the Fall of Man, and his forfeiture of immortality, is obvious
to any {41} unprejudiced mind. Lord Bacon's explanation shows that he has been overreached
by his fancy and ingenuity.

In all the ancient mysteries, the serpent was more or less conspicuously introduced, and always
as a symbol of the invigorating or active power of nature. The serpent was an emblem of the
sun. Solar, Phallic, and Serpent worship, are all forms of a single worship.[8] The Hindu Boodh,
Chinese Fo, Egyptian Osiris, Northern Woden, Mexican Quetzalcoatl (feathered serpent), are
one and the same. (See the American Archæological Researches, No. 1.; The Serpent Symbol, and
the Worship of the Reciprocal Principles of Nature in America, by E. G. Squier: New York, 1851.)

In Hindostan, to this day, we have the Chaudravanasas and the Snaryavanasas, worshippers of
the moon, the aqueous or female; and of the sun, the igneous or male principle. The Saivas
conjoin the two. Clemens Alexandrinus has a curious remark, referring to the calling on Evoe
or Eva in the orgies of Bacchus; he says:

    "The symbol in the orgies of Bacchus is a consecrated serpent; and,
    indeed, if we pay attention to the strict sense of the Hebrew, the name
    Evia, aspirated, signifies female serpent."

In my list of saints who are represented with a dragon or serpent beneath their feet, I omitted
St. Hilary:

    "He is usually represented with three books. In Callot's Images he is
    treading on serpents, and accompanied by the text Numb. xxi. 7. Both
    these emblems allude to his opposition to Arianism; the books
    signifying the treatises he wrote against it, and the serpents the
    false doctrines and heresies which he overthrew." Calendar of the
    Anglican Church Illustrated: London, 1851, p. 37.

In Didron's splendid work (the Iconographie) we have several references to ancient representations
of our blessed Lord treading the dragon under foot; and sometimes the lion, the asp, and the
basilisk are added. (See Ps. xci. 13.)

The Conception is usually represented in Christian art by a figure of
Mary setting her foot, as second Eve, on the head of the prostrate serpent
(in allusion to Gen. iii. 15.), and thus we find it in Callot's Images. (See Mrs.
    Jameson's Legends of the Madonna.)

EIRIONNACH.

[Footnote 5: The title of this curious book is, Geschichte der Mission der evangelischen Brüder
unter den Indianern in Nordamerika, durch Georg H. Loskiel: Barby, 1789, 8vo., pp. 783. Latrobe's
translation of this book was published Lond. 1794.]

[Footnote 6: This reminds one of the notion respecting

 "The scorpion girt with fire,"

immortalised by Lord Byron's famous simile.]

[Footnote 7: Eighteen Books of the Secrets of Art and Nature; being the Summe and Substance
of Naturall Philosophy methodically digested: London, 1661.]

[Footnote 8: In O'Brien's work on The Round Towers of Ireland, London, 1834, may be found much
curious matter on this subject; and a good deal of light is thrown on the horrors of Serpent
or Boodhist worship. It is, however, a wild and irreverent book, and by no means to be recommended
to the general reader, independently of the nature of its details. Mr. Payne Knight's book
is too well known to need mention here.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Early Notice of the Camera Obscura.--I send you an early notice of the camera obscura, which
is to be found in vol. vi. of the Nouvelles de la République des Lettres for September, 1686,
p. 1016. It is taken from a letter of Mons. Laurenti, médecin, of Boulogne, "Sur l'érection
des espèces dans une chambre optique."

    "C'est ainsi qu'on nomme one chambre exactement fermée partout, si ce
    n'est dans un endroit par où on laisse entrer la lumière, afin de voir
    peints, et situés à rebours, sur un morceau de papier blanc, les objets
    de dehors qui respondent à ce trou, auquel il faut mettre un verre
    convexe. On a souhaité, pour donner plus d'agrément à ce spectacle, que
    les objets se peignissent sur ce papier selon leur véritable situation;
    et pour cet effet on a cherché des expédiens qui redressassent les
    espèces avant qu'elles parvinssent au foier du verre, c'est-à-dire, sur
    le papier. L'auteur raporte '10' de ces expédiens, et trouve dans
    chacun d'eux quelque chose d'incommode, mais enfin il en raporte un
    autre, qui est exempt de toutes ces incommoditéz, et qui, par le moien
    d'un prisme, au travers duquel il faut regarder les images peints sur
    le papier, les montre dans leur situation droite, et augmente même la
    vivacité de leurs couleurs. C'est le hazard qui a découvert ce
    phénomène."

This letter is to be found at length in the Miscellanea Curiosa, sive Ephemeridum Medico-Physicarum
Germanicarum Academiæ Naturæ curiosorum decuria II. annus quartus, anni 1685 continens celeberrimorum
Virorum observationes medicas: Norimbergæ, 1686, in 4to. It may perhaps be worth consulting,
if it were only to know what the ten rejected expedients are.

ANON.

Queries on Dr. Diamond's Collodion Process.--Will you oblige me by informing DR. DIAMOND through
your valuable publication, that I am, in common with many others, extremely indebted to him
for his collodion, and would esteem it a favour if he would answer the following Queries, viz.:

1st. He says, in answer to a previous Query, that "nitrate of potassa" is not formed in his
process. Now I wish to ask if (as the iodide of silver is redissolved in iodide of potassium)
it is not formed when the plate is plunged into the nitrate silver bath, as the nitrate decomposes
the iodide of potassium?

2nd. How long will the collodion, according to his formulæ, keep, as collodion made with iodide
of silver generally decomposes quickly.

3rdly. Why does he prohibit washed ether?

4thly. Does he think cyanide of potassium would do as well as the iodide, to redissolve the
iodide of silver, iodide of potassium being at present so dear?

{42}

5thly. In his paper process, does not the soaking in water after iodizing merely take away
a portion of iodides of silver and potassium from the paper; or, if not, what end is answered
by it?

W. F. E.

Baths for the Collodion Process.--Having lately been assured, by a gentleman of scientific
attainments, that the sensitiveness of the prepared collodion plate depends rather upon the
strength of the nitrate of silver bath than on the collodion, I am desirous of asking how far
the experience of your correspondents confirms this statement. My informant assured me, that
if, instead of using a solution of thirty grains of nitrate of silver to the ounce of water
for the bath, which is the proportion recommended by Messrs. Archer, Horne, Delamotte, Diamond,
&c., a sixty grain solution be substituted, the formation of the image would be the work of
the fraction of a second. This seems to me so important as to deserve being brought under the
notice of photographers--especially at this busy season--without a moment's delay; and I therefore
record the statement at once, as, from circumstances with which I need not encumber your pages,
I shall not have an opportunity of trying any experiment upon the point for a week or two.

Upon referring to the authorities on the subject of the best solution for baths, I have been
struck with their uniformity. One exception only has presented itself, which is in a valuable
paper by Mr. Thomas in the 6th Number of the Journal of the Photographic Society. That gentleman
directs the bath to be prepared in the following manner:

Into a 20 oz. stoppered bottle, put--

  Nitrate of silver      1 oz.
  Distilled water       10 oz.
      Dissolve.

  Iodide of potassium    5 grs.
  Distilled water        1 dr.
      Dissolve.

On mixing these two solutions, a precipitate of iodide of silver is formed. Place the bottle
containing this mixture in a saucepan of hot water, keep it on the hob for about twelve hours,
shake it occasionally, now and then removing the stopper. The bath is now perfectly saturated
with iodide of silver; when cold, filter through white filtering paper, and add--

  Alcohol                2 drs.
  Sulphuric ether        1 dr.

The prepared glass is to remain in the bath about eight or ten minutes. Now, is this bath applicable
to all collodion, or only to that prepared by Mr. Thomas; and if the former, what is the rationale
of its beneficial action?

A BEGINNER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Mitigation of Capital Punishment to a Forger (Vol. vii., p. 573.).--If your correspondent H.
B. C. really wishes to be released from his hard work in hunting up the truth of my and other
narratives of the mitigation of capital punishment to forgers, I shall be happy to receive
a note from him with his name and address, when I will give him the name and address of my
informant in return. By this means I may be able to relieve his shoulder from a portion of
its burden, and myself from any farther imputations of "mythic accompaniments," &c., which
are unpalatable phrases even when coming from a gentleman who only discloses his initials.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

Chronograms (Vol. v., p. 585.) and Anagrams (Vol. iv., p. 226).--Though we have ceased to practise
these "literary follies," they are not without interest; and you will perhaps think it worth
while to add the following to your list:

 "Hugo Grotius, his Sophompaneas.
    By FranCIs GoLDsMIth."

has no date on the title-page, the real date of 1652 being supplied by the chronogram, which
is a better one than most of those quoted in "N. & Q.," inasmuch as all the numerical letters
are employed, and it is consequently not dependent on the typography.

James Howell concludes his Parly of Beasts as follows:

     "Gloria lausque Deo sæCLorVM in sæcVla sunto.

    A chronogrammaticall verse which includes not onely this year, 1660,
    but hath numericall letters enow [an illustration, by the way, of
    enow as expressive of number] to reach above a thousand years
    farther, untill the year 2867."

Query, How is this made out? And are there any other letters employed as numerical than the
M, D, C, L, V, and I? If not, I can only make Howell's chronogram equivalent to 1927.

The author, in his German Diet, after narrating the death of Charles, son of Philip II. of
Spain, says:

    "If you desire to know the yeer, this chronogram will tell you:

      fILIVs ante DIeM patrIos InqVIrIt In annos,"

    which would represent the date of 1568.

The same work contains an anagram on "Frere Jacques Clement," the murderer of Henry III. of
France: "C'est l'enfer qui m'a créé." It probably was so used; {43} but I have always thought
it likely that it became much more extensively employed, after Abigail Hill, Lady Masham, became
the favourite of that queen. She was, I believe, a poor cousin of Sarah Jennings, Duchess of
Marlborough, and early in life was employed by her in the humble capacity of lady's maid. After
she had supplanted the haughty duchess, it is not unlikely that the Whigs would take a malicious
pleasure in keeping alive the recollection of the early fortunes of the Tory favourite, and
that they would be unwilling to lose the opportunity of speaking of a lady's maid as anything
else but an "Abigail." Swift, however, in his use of the word, could have no such design, as
he was on the best of terms with the Mashams, of whose party he was the very life and soul.

H. T. RILEY.

Burial in unconsecrated Ground (Vol. vi., p. 448.).--Susanna, the wife of Philip Carteret Webb,
Esq., of Busbridge, in Surrey, died at Bath in March, 1756, and was, at her own desire, buried
with two of her children in a cave in the grounds at Busbridge; it being excavated by a company
of soldiers then quartered at Guildford. Their remains were afterwards disinterred and buried
in Godalming Church.

H. T. RILEY.

"Cob" and "Conners" (Vol. vii., pp. 234. 321.).--These names are not synonymous, nor are they
Irish words. It is the pier at Lyme Regis, and not the harbour, which bears the name of the
Cob. In the "Y Gododin" of Aneurin, a British poem supposed to have been written in the sixth
century, the now obsolete word chynnwr occurs in the seventy-sixth stanza. In a recent translation
of this poem, by the Rev. John Williams Ab Ithel, M.A., this word is rendered, apparently for
the sake of the metre, "shore of the sea." The explanation given in a foot-note is, "Harbour
cynwr from cyn dwfr." On the shore of the estuary of the Dee, between Chester and Flint, on
the Welsh side of the river, there is a place called "Connah's Quay." It is probable that the
ancient orthography of the name was Conner.

Cob, I think, is also a British word,--cop, a mound. All the ancient earth-works which bear
this name, of which I have knowledge, are of a circular form, except a lone embankment called
The Cop, which has been raised on the race-course at Chester, to protect it from the land-floods
and spring-tides of the river Dee.

N. W. S. (2.)

Coleridge's Unpublished MSS. (Vol. iv., p. 411.; Vol. vi., p. 533.).--THEOPHYLACT, at the first
reference, inquired whether we are "ever likely to receive from any member of Coleridge's family,
or from his friend Mr. J. H. Green, the fragments, if not the entire work, of his Logosophia."
Agreeing with your correspondent, that "we can ill afford to lose a work the conception of
which engrossed much of his thoughts," I repeated the Query in another form, at the second
reference (supra), grounding it upon an assurance of Sara Coleridge, in her introduction to
the Biographia Literaria, that the fragment on Ideas would hereafter appear, as a sequel to
the Aids to Reflection. Whether this fragment be identical with the Logosophia, or, as I suspect,
a distinct essay, certain it is that nothing of the kind has ever been published.

From an interesting conversation I had with Dr. Green in a railway carriage, on our return
from the Commemoration at Oxford, I learned that he has in his possession, (1.) A complete
section of a work on The Philosophy of Nature which he took down from the mouth of Coleridge,
filling a large volume; (2.) A complete treatise on Logic; and (3.) If I did not mistake, a
fragment on Ideas. The reason Dr. Green assigns for their not having been published, is, that
they contain nothing but what has already seen the light in the Aids to Reflection, The Theory
of Life, and the Treatise on Method. This appears to me a very inadequate reason for withholding
them from the press. That the works would pay, there can be no doubt. Besides the editing of
these MSS., who is so well qualified as Dr. Green to give us a good biography of Coleridge?

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Selling a Wife (Vol. vii., p. 602.).--A case of selling a wife actually and bonâ fide happened
in the provincial town in which I reside, about eighteen years ago. A man publicly sold his
wife at the market cross for 15l.: the buyer carried her away with him some seven miles off,
and she lived with him till his death. The seller and the buyer are both now dead, but the
woman is alive, and is married to a third (or a second) husband. The legality of the transaction
has, I believe, some chance of being tried, as she now claims some property belonging to her
first husband (the seller), her right to which is questioned in consequence of her supposed
alienation by sale; and I am informed that a lawyer has been applied to in the case. Of course
there can be little doubt as to the result.

SC.

Life (Vol. vii., pp. 429. 608.).--Compare with the lines quoted by your correspondents those
of Moore, entitled "My Birthday," the four following especially:

 "Vain was the man, and false as vain,
    Who said[9], 'Were he ordain'd to run
  His long career of life again,
    He would do all that he had done.'"

Many a man would gladly live his life over again, were he allowed to bring to bear on his {44}
second life the experience he had acquired in that past. For in the grave there is no room,
either for ambition or repentance; and the degree of our happiness or misery for eternity is
proportioned to the state of preparation or unpreparation in which we leave this world. Instead
of many a man, I might have said most good men; and of the others, all who have not passed
the rubicon of hope and grace. The vista of the past, however, appears a long and dreary retrospect,
and any future is hailed as a relief: yet on second and deeper thought, we would mount again
the rugged hill of life, and try for a brighter prospect, a higher eminence.

JARLTZBERG.

[Footnote 9: Fontenelle.]

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Immo Deus mihi si dederit renovare juventam,
  Utve iterum in cunis possim vagire; recusem."
      Isaac Hawkins Browne, De Animi Immortalitate, lib. i., near the
          end.

(See Selecta Poemata Anglorum Latina, iii. 251.)

F. W. J.

Passage of Thucydides on the Greek Factions (Vol. vii., p. 594.).--The passage alluded to by
SIR A. ALISON appears to be the celebrated description of the moral effects produced by the
conflicts of the Greek factions, which is subjoined to the account of the Corcyræan sedition,
iii. 82. The quotation must, however, have been made from memory, and it is amplified and expanded
from the original. The words adverted to seem to be:

    [Greek: mellêsis de promêthês deilia euprepês, to de sôphron tou
    anandrou proschêma, kai to pros hapan xuneton epi pan argon.]

Thucydides, however, proceeds to say that the cunning which enabled a man to plot with success
against an enemy, or still more to discover his hostile purposes, was highly esteemed.

L.

Archbishop King (Vol. vii., p. 430.).--A few days since I met with the following passage in
a brief sketch of Kane O'Hara, in the last number of the Irish Quarterly Review:

    "In the extremely meagre published notices of O'Hara (the celebrated
    burletta writer), no reference has been made to his skill as an artist,
    of which we have a specimen in his etching of Dr. William King,
    archbishop of Dublin, in a wig and cap, of which portrait a copy has
    been made by Richardson."

This extract is taken from one of a very interesting series of papers upon "The Streets of Dublin."

ABHBA.

Devonianisms (Vol. vii., p. 544.).--Pilm, Forrell.--Pillom is the full word, of which pilm
is a contraction. It appears to have been derived from the British word pylor, dust. Forell
is an archaic name for the cover of a book. The Welsh appear to have adopted it from the English,
as their name for a bookbinder is fforelwr, literally, one who covers books. I may mention
another Devonianism. The cover of a book is called its healing. A man who lays slates on the
roof of a house is, in Devonshire, called a hellier.

N. W. S. (2.)

Perseverant, Perseverance (Vol. vii., p. 400.).--Can MR. ARROWSMITH supply any instances of
the verb persever (or perceyuer, as it is spelt in the 1555 edition of Hawes, M. i. col. 2.),
from any other author? and will he inform us when this "abortive hog" and his litter became
extinct.

In explaining speare (so strangely misunderstood by the editor of Dodsley), he should, I think,
have added, that it was an old way of writing spar. In Shakspeare's Prologue to Troilus and
Cressida, it is written sperr. Sparred, quoted by Richardson from the Romance of the Rose,
and Troilus and Creseide, is in the edition of Chaucer referred to by Tyrwhitt, written in
the Romance "spered," and in Troilus "sperred."

Q.

Bloomsbury.

"The Good Old Cause" (Vol. vi., passim).--Mrs. Behn, who gained some notoriety for her licentious
writings even in Charles II.'s days, was the author of a play called The Roundheads, or the
Good Old Cause: London, 1682. In the Epilogue she puts into the mouth of the Puritans the following
lines respecting the Royalists:

 "Yet then they rail'd against The Good Old Cause;
  Rail'd foolishly for loyalty and laws:
  But when the Saints had put them to a stand,
  We left them loyalty, and took their land:
  Yea, and the pious work of Reformation
  Rewarded was with plunder and sequestration."

Whence did Mr. Teale get these lines? Either The Good Old Cause is here used in a peculiar
sense, or Mr. Teale makes an unhappy use of the quotation.

JARLTZBERG.

Saying of Pascal (Vol. vii., p. 596.).--In reply to the question of W. FRASER, I would refer
him to Pascal's sixteenth Provincial Letter, where, in the last paragraph but one, we read,--

    "Mes révérends pères, mes lettres n'avaient pas accoutumé de se suivre
    de si près, ni d'être si étendues. Le peu de temps que j'ai eu a été
    cause de l'un et de l'autre. Je n'ai fait celle-ci plus longue que
    parceque je {45} n'ai pas eu le loisir de la faire plus courte. La
    raison qui m'a obligé de hâter vous est mieux connue qu'à moi."

R. E. T.

Paint taken off of old Oak (Vol. vii., p. 620.).--About twenty-six years ago, by the adoption
of a very simple process recommended by Dr. Wollaston, the paint was entirely removed from
the screen of carved oak which fills the north end of the great hall at Audley End, and the
wood reassumed its original colour and brilliancy. The result was brought about by the application
of soft-soap, laid on of the thickness of a shilling over the whole surface of the oak, and
allowed to remain there two or three days; at the end of which it was washed off with plenty
of cold water. I am aware that potash has been often tried with success for the same purpose;
but, in many instances, unless it is used with due caution, the wood becomes of a darker hue,
and has the appearance of having been charred. It is worthy of remark, that Dr. Wollaston made
the suggestion with great diffidence, not having, as he said, had any practical experience
of the effect of such an application.

BRAYBROOKE.

Passage in the "Tempest" (Vol. ii., pp. 259. 299. 337. 429.).--As a parallel to the expression
"most busy least" (meaning "least busy" emphatically), I would suggest the common expression
of the Northumbrians, "Far over near" (signifying "much too near").

H. T. RILEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

The Committee appointed by the Society of Antiquaries to consider what improvements could be
introduced into its management, has at length issued a Report; and we are glad to find that
the alterations suggested by them have been frankly adopted by the Council. The principal changes
proposed refer to the election of the Council; the having but one Secretary, who is not to
be a member of that body; the appointment of Local Secretaries; the retirement annually of
the Senior Vice-President; and lastly, that which more than anything else must operate for
the future benefit of the Society, the appointment of a third Standing Committee, to be called
The Executive Committee, whose duty shall be "to superintend the correspondence of the Society
on all subjects relating to literature and antiquities, to direct any antiquarian operations
or excavations carried on by the Society, to examine all papers sent for reading, all objects
sent for exhibition, and to assist the Director generally in taking care that the publications
of the Society are consistent with its position and importance." It is easy to see that if
a proper selection be made of the Fellows to serve on this Committee, their activity, and the
renewed interest which will be thereby awakened in the proceedings of the Society, will ensure
for the Thursday Evening Meetings a regular supply of objects for exhibition, and papers for
reading, worthy of the body--and therefore unlike many which we have too frequently heard,
and to which, but for the undeserved imputation which we should seem to cast upon our good
friend Sir Henry Ellis, might be applied, with a slight alteration, that couplet of Mathias
which tells--

 "How o'er the bulk of these transacted deeds
  Sir Henry pants, and d----ns 'em as he reads."

We have now little doubt that better days are in store for the Society of Antiquaries.

The Annual Meeting of the Archæological Institute commences at Chichester on Tuesday next,
under the patronage of the Dukes of Norfolk and Richmond, and the Bishop of Chichester, and
the Presidentship of Lord Talbot de Malahide. There is a good bill of fare provided in the
shape of Lectures on the Cathedral, by Professor Willis; excursions to Boxgrove Priory, Halnaker,
Godwood, Cowdray, Petworth, Pevensey, Amberley, Shoreham, Lewes, and Arundel; excavations on
Bow Hill; Meetings of the Sections of History, Antiquities, and Architecture; and, what we
think will be one of the pleasantest features of the programme, the Annual Meeting of the Sussex
Archæological Society, in the proceedings of which the Members of the Institute are invited
to participate.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--A Glossary of Provincialisms in Use in the County of Sussex, by W. Durrant
Cooper, second edition: a small but very valuable addition to our provincial glossaries, with
an introduction well worth the reading. We shall be surprised if the meeting of the Institute
this year in Sussex does not furnish Mr. Cooper with materials for a third and enlarged edition.--The
Traveller's Library, No. 44., A Tour on the Continent by Rail and Road, by John Barrow: a brief
itinerary of dates and distances, showing what may be done in a two months' visit to the Continent.--No.
45.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

CIRCLE OF THE SEASONS. 12mo. London, 1828. (Two Copies.)

JONES' ACCOUNT OF ABERYSTWITH. Trevecka, 8vo. 1779.

{46} M. C. H. BROEMEL'S FEST-TANZEN DER ERSTEN CHRISTEN. Jena, 1705.

COOPER'S ACCOUNT OF PUBLIC RECORDS. 8vo. 1832. Vol. I.

PASSIONAEL EFTE DAT LEVENT DER HEILIGEN. Basil, 1522.

LORD LANSDOWNE'S WORKS. Vol. I. Tonson, 1736.

JAMES BAKER'S PICTURESQUE GUIDE TO THE LOCAL BEAUTIES OF WALES. Vol. I. 4to. 1794.

SANDERS' HISTORY OF SHENSTONE IN STAFFORDSHIRE. J. Nichols, London, 1794. Two Copies.

HERBERT'S CAROLINA THRENODIA. 8vo. 1702.

THEOBOLD'S SHAKSPEARE RESTORED. 4to. 1726.

J. M. G., who writes respecting the Leigh Peerage, is informed that we have a private letter
for him. How can it be addressed to him?

W. W. (Malta) has our best thanks for his letter of the 25th of June. His suggestion will be
adopted; but we shall shortly have the pleasure of addressing a private communication to him.

SHAKSPEARE CRITICISM. We have to apologise to many friends and Correspondents for the postponement
of their communications. As Soon as the Index to Vol. vii. is published, we shall take steps
to get out of these arrears.

C. P. F. The Ch in the name of Chobham is soft. There is a Cobham within a few miles of the Camp.

IODIDE (June 24th). There is much care required in iodizing paper; we have no hesitation in
saying at present the subject has not met with sufficient attention. When the iodized paper
is immersed in water, it is some time before it assumes a yellow colour. This may be accelerated
by often changing the water. The brightness of the colour is by no means an index of its degree
of sensitiveness--on the contrary, paper of a bright yellow colour is more apt to brown than
one of a pale primrose. Too bright a yellow would also indicate an insufficient soaking; and
suffering the paper to remain longer than is needful not only lessens its sensitive powers,
but does much damage by removing all the size.

H. N. (Kingston). Violet-coloured glass, ground on one side, may be obtained at 11d. per square
foot of Messrs. Forest and Brownley, Lime Street, Liverpool. It may also be had in London,
but the price charged is much higher. This glass obstructs just a sufficient degree of light,
and is most agreeable to the sitter; not much advantage accrues from the use of large sheets,
and it is objectionable for price. No doubt such an application as you mention would be useful;
but, from the difficulty there is in keeping out the wet from a glass roof, it would be very
objectionable. Beyond a reference to our advertising columns, we cannot enter upon the subject
of the prices of chemicals and their purity. In making gun cotton, the time of immersion in
the acids must be the same for twenty grains as for any large quantity: when good, there is
a peculiar crispness in the cotton, and it is quite soluble in the ether. If our Correspondent
(who expresses so much earnestness of success) will forward his address, he shall receive a
small portion made according to DR. DIAMOND'S formulary, which we find extremely soluble; and
he can compare it with that of his own production.

F. M. (Malta). 1st. We are informed by DR. DIAMOND that however beautiful the results obtained
by others in the use of Canson's paper, in his hands he has found no certainty in its action,
and, for iodized paper for negatives, far inferior to the best English papers. If the salts
of gold are to be used, deep tints are very readily obtained by the French papers. The propriety
of using gold is very questionable, not only as affecting the after permanence of the picture,
but from the strong contrasts generally produced being very offensive to an artist's eye. 2ndly.
Xyloidine may be iodized precisely the same as collodion, but no advantage whatever is gained
from its use. A collodion for the taking of positives on glass should be differently made to
one for negative pictures. There should be less of the iodides contained in it, and it should
be more fluid. When this is the case, the image is never washed out by the hypo., and the delineation
is equal in minuteness to any Daguerreotype on metal plates, as has been shown by the specimens
of the reduction of printing exhibited by Mr. Rosling at the Society of Arts' Exhibition, where
the letters were reduced to 1-750th of an inch, or less than half the diameter of a human hair.
If the protonitrate of iron properly prepared be used in the development, the deposit assumes
the beautiful appearance of dead white silver, having none of the reflecting qualities of the
metal plates.

C. E. F. (June 13th). The spots in the specimen sent depend upon minute substances in your
collodion not receiving the action of the nitrate of silver bath; and you will find this upon
looking through a prepared plate after it has been in the nitrate bath, and previously to its
ever having been in the camera. They may be iodide or iodate of silver, or small crystals of
nitrate of potash. If the former, add a little piece of iodide of potassium, say ten grains
to two ounces of collodion; or if the latter, it would depend upon a defective washing of the
gun cotton by which all the soluble salts have not been removed: thus more care must be used.
We would recommend you to use an entirely new bath and stronger, four ounces of hypo. to a
pint: it is evident that your very nice specimens have been spoiled by the stains of the bath.
Allow us again to draw your attention to the process given by MR. POLLOCK; we have seen most
satisfactory pictures produced by it.

R. H. CHATTOCK (Solihull). The "freckled" appearance which you mention in your positives in
all probability depends upon the action of the light upon the silver, which still remains in
your proof. We have often found it to be the case when old hyposulphite of soda is used, and
when the strength of the bath is becoming weak and doubtful. It is certainly a safe process
to soak the picture in clean water for an hour or two, the light being excluded previous to
the immersion into the hypo.; and the water extracting a large portion of the solutions remaining
on the paper, the after application of the hypo. need not be so long continued, whereby the
tone of the picture is not so much lowered. Your own observation, that a piece of Whatman's
paper being merely divided, and one point exhibiting the defects and the other not, at once
negatives the idea that the size in the paper has been affected.

The Index to our SEVENTH VOLUME will be ready on Saturday next, the 16th.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS MANUFACTORY, Charlotte Terrace, Barnsbury Road, Islington.

T. OTTEWILL (from Horne & Co.'s) begs most respectfully to call the attention of Gentlemen,
Tourists, and Photographers, to the superiority of his newly registered DOUBLE-BODIED FOLDING
CAMERAS, possessing the efficiency and ready adjustment of the Sliding Camera, with the portability
and convenience of the Folding Ditto.

Every description of Apparatus to order.

       *       *       *       *       *

PURE NERVOUS or MIND COMPLAINTS.--If the readers of NOTES AND QUERIES, who suffer from depression
of spirits, confusion, headache, blushing, groundless fears, unfitness for business or society,
blood to the head, failure of memory, delusions, suicidal thoughts, fear of insanity, &c.,
will call on, or correspond with, REV. DR. WILLIS MOSELEY, who, out of above 22,000 applicants,
knows not fifty uncured who have followed his advice, he will instruct them how to get well,
without a fee, and will render the same service to the friends of the insane.--At home from
11 to 3.

18. BLOOMSBURY STREET, BEDFORD SQUARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

{48}

MURRAY'S RAILWAY READING.

This Day, new and revised Edition, post 8vo., 2s. 6d.

ANCIENT SPANISH BALLADS: Historical and Romantic. Translated, with Notes, by JOHN GIBSON LOCKHART,
ESQ.

Also, fcap. 8vo., 2s.

A MONTH IN NORWAY, during the Summer of 1852. By JOHN G. HOLLWAY, ESQ.

The former Volumes of Murray's Railway Reading are--

LIFE OF LORD BACON. By LORD CAMPBELL.

WELLINGTON. By JULES MAUREL.

FALL OF JERUSALEM. By DEAN MILMAN.

STORY OF JOAN OF ARC. By LORD MAHON.

LITERARY ESSAYS AND CHARACTERS. By HENRY HALLAM.

LIFE OF THEODORE HOOK.

THE EMIGRANT. By SIR F. B. HEAD.

CHARACTER OF WELLINGTON. By LORD ELLESMERE.

MUSIC AND DRESS. By a LADY.

POPULAR ACCOUNT OF NINEVEH. By A. H. LAYARD.

BEES AND FLOWERS. By a CLERGYMAN.

"THE FORTY-FIVE." By LORD MAHON.

ESSAYS FROM "THE TIMES."

DEEDS of NAVAL DARING. By EDWARD GIFFARD.

THE ART OF DINING.

JOURNEY TO NEPAUL. By LAURENCE OLIPHANT.

THE CHACE, TURF, AND ROAD. By NIMROD.

Just ready,

HISTORY, AS A CONDITION OF SOCIAL PROGRESS. By SAMUEL LUCAS. Fcap. 8vo., price 6d.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUTCH LANGUAGE.--Werninck's Dutch Dictionary, 1824 (published at 12s.), bd. 5s.--Van der Pyl's
Dutch Grammar, 8vo. 1819, bds. 6s.;--and a variety of other Dutch Works for sale at

BERNARD QUARITCH'S, 16. Castle Street, Leicester Square.

*** B. Q.'s Catalogue, containing an extensive stock of Books in all the Languages of the World,
may be had for 6d.--B. Q.'s Monthly Catalogues are sent for a year on receipt of Twelve Postage
Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHÆOLOGICAL INSTITUTE

OF

Great Britain and Ireland.

ANNUAL MEETING, CHICHESTER, 1853.

PATRONS. His Grace the Duke of Norfolk, Earl Marshal, K.G. His Grace the Duke of Richmond,
K.G., Lord Lieutenant of Sussex, and Custos Rotulorum. The Lord Bishop of Chichester, D.D.

PRESIDENT. The Lord Talbot de Malahide, M.R.I.A.

PRESIDENTS OF SECTIONS. History.--The Earl of Chichester. Antiquities.--The Hon. Robert Curzon,
Jun. Architecture.--The Very Rev. the Dean of Chichester.

The ANNUAL MEETING will commence at CHICHESTER on TUESDAY next, July the 12th.

All persons who propose to communicate Memoirs, or to send Antiquities, &c., for Exhibition,
are requested to make known their intention forthwith.

  GEO. VULLIAMY, Sec.
  26. Suffolk Street, Pall Mall.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADVIG'S GREEK SYNTAX, BY ARNOLD AND BROWNE.

In square 8vo., price 8s. 6d.

SYNTAX OF THE GREEK LANGUAGE, especially of the Attic Dialect, for the Use of Schools. By PROFESSOR
MADVIG. With an Appendix on the GREEK PARTICLES, by the Translator.

RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARNOLD'S EDITIONS OF THE GREEK DRAMAS, WITH ENGLISH NOTES.

Just published, price 3s.

THE MEDEA of EURIPIDES; with ENGLISH NOTES, from the German of Witzschel.

Recently published in this Series:

1. EURIPIDIS BACCHÆ, 3s.--HIPPOLYTUS, 3s.--HECUBA, 3s.

2. SOPHOCLIS OEDIPUS COLONEUS, 4s.--OEDIPUS TYRANNUS, 4s.--PHILOCTETES, 3s.--AJAX, 3s.--ANTIGONE,
4s.

3. ECLOGÆ ARISTOPHANICÆ. (CLOUDS), 3s. 6d.--(BIRDS), 3s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, with Woodcuts, Post 8vo., 10s. 6d.

THE STORY OF CORFE CASTLE, and of many who have lived there. Collected from Ancient Chronicles
and Records; also from the Private Memoirs of a Family resident there in the Time of the Civil
Wars, which include various particulars of the Court of Charles I., when at York, and afterwards
at Oxford. By the RIGHT HON. GEORGE BANKES, M.P.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for JULY, 1853, being the First of a New Volume, contains:--1. Memoirs
of Thomas Moore. 2. Wanderings of an Antiquary, from York to Godmanham (with Engravings). 3.
Female Novelists. 4. A Political Caricature, temp. Charles I. 5. A Midland Town (Leicester)
in the Reign of George III., and Mr. Gardiner's Anecdotes of T. Moore. 6. Historical Notes
on the Retaining of Counsel. 7. Roman Antiquities found at Kingsholm, near Gloucester. 8. Remains
of Norman Cross at Birstall, co. York (with an Engraving). 9. The Bourne Stream near Croydon.
10. Dr. Guest on the Etymology of Stonehenge. Correspondence of Sylvanus Urban: The Itinerary
of Richard of Cirencester.--The Roches and Viscounty of Fermoy.--Recent repairs of Lambeth
Church.--Early state of St. James's Park.--Postmen, temp. 6d. By Post, 5s. This Manual contains
much practical information of a valuable nature.

JOSEPH CUNDALL, 168.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

page 25, "awe, auge, ave, campus": 'campres' in original (Errata, Issue 194).

page 26, "the Coptic iaro": 'iars' in original (Errata, Issue 194).

page 28, "connecting the following words with one another": 'word' in original.

page 35, "any other source than those": 'that those' in original.

page 36, "the regularity of the petals.": 'irregularity' in original (Errata, Issue 194).

