These extraordinary little insects are more particularly noticed in Italy, during the period
of summer, than in any other part of the world. When they make their appearance, they glitter
like stars reflected by the sea, so beautiful and luminous are their minute bodies. Many contemplative
lovers of the phenomena of nature are seen, soon after sun-set, along the sea coast, admiring
the singular lustre of the water when covered with these particles of life, which it may be
observed, are more numerous where the alga marina, or sea-weed abounds.

The marine glow-worm is composed of eleven articulations, or rings; upon these rings, and near
the belly of the insect, are placed fins, which appear to be the chief instruments of its motion.
It has two small horns issuing from the fore part of the head, and its tail is cleft in two.
To the naked eye of man, they seem even smaller than the finest hairs; and their substance
is delicate beyond description. They first begin to make their appearance upon the sea-weed
about the middle of April, and very soon after multiply exceedingly over the whole surface
of the water.

I think it is more than probable, that the heat of the sun causes the marine glow-worm to lay
its eggs; at all events it is certain, that terrestrial insects of this species shine only
in the heat of summer, and that their peculiar resplendency is produced during the period of
their copulation.

G. W. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPHS.

(For the Mirror.)

The origin of epitaphs, and the precise period when they were first introduced, is involved
in obscurity; but that they were in use several centuries prior to the Christian era is indisputable.
The invention of them, however, has been attributed to the scholars of Linus, who, according
to Diogenes, was the son of Mercury and Urania; he was born at Thebes, and instructed Hercules
in the art of music; who, in a fit of anger at the ridicule of Linus, on his awkwardness in
holding the lyre, struck him on the head with his instrument, and killed him. The scholars
of Linus lamented the death of their master, in a mournful kind of poem, called from him Aelinum.
These poems were afterwards designated Epitaphia, from the two words [Greek: epi], upon, and
[Greek: taphios], sepulchre, being engraved on tombs, in honour or memory of the deceased,
and generally containing some eloge of his virtues or good qualities.

Among the Lacedaemonians, epitaphs were only allowed to men who died bravely in battle; and
to women, who were remarkable for their chastity. The Romans often erected monuments to illustrious
persons whilst living, which were preserved with great veneration after their decease. In this
country, according to Sir Henry Chauncy, "Any person may erect a tomb, sepulchre, or monument
for the deceased in any church, chancel, chapel, or churchyard, so that it is not to the hindrance
of the celebration of divine service;  that the defacing of them is punishable at common law,
the party that built it being entitled to the action during his life, and the heir of the deceased
after his death."

Boxhornius has made a well chosen collection of Latin epitaphs, and F. Labbe has also made
a similar one in the French language, entitled, "Tresor des Epitaphes." In our own language
the collection of Toldewy is the best; there are also several to be found among the writings
of Camden and Weaver, and in most of the county histories.

In epitaphs, the deceased person is sometimes introduced by way of prosopopaeia, speaking to
the living, of which the following is an instance, wherein the defunct wife thus addresses
her surviving husband:--

  "Immatura peri; sed tu, felicior, annos
  Vive tuos, conjux optime, vive meos."

The following epitaphs, out of several others, are worth preserving. That of Alexander:--

