 Muriate and carbonate
of soda, saltpetre, or nitrate of potassa, are found in the margin of the rivers which empty
into the Gulf of Cortéz [of California], and particularly in the mouths of the Colorado.

B.

REPORT ON THE MINERAL RICHES OF CHIHUAHUA.

The statistical notices which have until to-day been received, embrace five cantons or departments
of that state, which show that there exist in it sixteen minerals [districts containing mines],
of which twelve are in working, and four abandoned in consequence of the incessant incursions
of barbarous Indians. Their names are Hidalgo del Parral, Minas Nuevas, San Francisco del Oro,
Santa Barbara, Zopago, Chinipas, Guazapores, Batozegache, Guadalupe y Calvo, Cuacogornichie,
Galeana, Cosihuiriachic, Santa Eulalia, Barranco, and two more, without names, in the canton
Caleana.

Twenty-one mines are found in operation in the twelve minerals in action. The number of those
abandoned is increasing, and is not permanent; and the only cause referred to is that many
of them are abandoned for want of capital, and others from the hostility of the barbarians.
The products of those that were worked in the year 1849 amount to 146,818 marks of silver,
of a ley of eleven dineros, and 7 marks, 7 oz., and 4 eighths of gold to the twenty-two quintals.
The number of haciendas and furnaces for extracting the metal from the ore was twenty, and
the processes which they use in that state are the patio and the furnace; the last is the most
general. Finally, there has been put in practice a third system, by the house of Manning and
M'Intosh, for the purpose of separating the silver by means of the precipitate of copper. The
consumptions of the last year, 1849, amount to $544,194, notwithstanding which the notices
omit the returns of various mines, haciendas, furnaces, and water-mills. The items are quicksilver
at $140 a hundred, gunpowder, lime, wood, sulphate of copper, salt, iron, steel, metals of
aid [metals thrown into the compound to aid the process of extracting], tallow, grease, hides,
leather, corn, straw, grain, flesh, beans, and bars of iron. The number of operatives is not
known with exactness, because the reports only refer to certain mines and haciendas, but in
these they amount to 1833, besides day-laborers at five reals (5/8ths of a dollar) a day for
half the time. The most important improvements that have been introduced into some of these
mines consist in the establishment of pumps for facilitating draining, and in the introduction
of German ovens for fusing a greater quantity of mineral at a less cost and with greater perfection,
being so much the more interesting as the condition of the metals presents itself more easily
to this kind of benefiting.

Four companies have been established for prosecuting the labor of the mines, Preseña, Rosario,
Tajo, and Prieta. The first takes its name from Señor Delille, the second is composed of Mexicans,
and the last two are composed of Mexicans, English, and naturalized Spaniards. Nothing is known
in relation to their capitals. Besides the precious metals, we find lead in Naica and Babisas,
of the canton of Matamoros; copper, from which only magistral is taken, is found in the canton
of Mina, and sulphur and saltpetre in the canton of Iturbide. The reports mention nothing in
respect to the authorities that take cognizance of the affairs of the Mineria; but it is presumed
that, as in the rest of the nation, the judges of first instance take knowledge of controversies,
and the courts of mines, if by chance they are established, take cognizance of the economy
and government of the mines.

The mint of Guadalupe and Calvo coined in 1848, $720,765, and in 1849, $665,225, of which two
sums $1,027,130 were of silver, and $355,859 in gold, the whole being the proceeds of 116,015
marks, 1 oz., and 4 eighths of silver, of the ley of eleven dineros, and of 2351 marks, 5 oz.,
2 eighths of gold, with ley of twenty-two carats. This appears from the reports of the mint
of the capital of that state.

C.

REPORT ON THE MINERAL RICHES OF COAHUILA.

This state, one of the least populous, and exposed, like all the frontier states of the north,
to the incessant incursions of the barbarous tribes, offers at present very little interest
to those speculations which engender the exercise of mineral industry--that which, besides
experience and capital, requires for its development an abundance of hands and entire security.
While the publication of the mineral statistics of the nation not only brings the idea of manifesting
the present condition of this branch of industry among us, but also that of propagating its
exercise as one of the principal elements of riches among the Mexicans, it is necessary to
speak of the state in which the Mineria is in Coahuila, and of hopes which it makes to spring
up for the future. There are twelve mines actually amparadas, or in labor, in the four minerals
already mentioned: their names are unknown to us, and it is only known that their monthly products
amount to 200 marks [of 8 ounces] of silver and 150 loads of greta [litharge]. The number of
operatives employed in all these amount to 193, and the day laborers receive four reals [half
a dollar] a day.

There is no exact notice of the number of mineral districts and single mines abandoned in the
State of Coahuila; but the number is considerable, according to the information furnished from
1843 by the deputation of Santa Rosa. Among those deserving a particular mention is that of
the Sierra de Timulco and that of Potrerillos, by the good ley of the metals of the mines of
the first, and by the uniformity of the veins and not unappreciable richness of the second.
These veins run generally from northwest to southeast, and in the course they encounter, scattered
about, silver-bearing galena [sulphuret of lead], lead, copper, with sulphuret of zinc. The
amount of the consumptions of the mines that are worked is also unknown; but it is known that
the gunpowder costs the operators $9 an aroba [of 25 pounds], of lead, $12 a carga of 300 pounds;
that of greta, $6; copper, of superior quality, $16 the hundred weight; the carga of coal,
six reals [three fourths of a dollar], and wood, one real a mule-load. The ruins and the heaps
of rubbish manifest that in other times there was much activity in the labor of the mines and
haciendas for separating the metals; but to-day there are only in existence some furnaces,
which are the least costly, which the miners of Coahuila can use for their metals. This they
effect generally in ovens, and in galemes in the open plain. But this method of separating
the metals, which Coahuilans have been necessitated to adopt as the least expensive, until
quicksilver has notably fallen in price, has not remained stationary, as in other parts of
the republic. These simple inhabitants have succeeded, by the force of experiments, in obtaining
as a result the power of fusing 25 cargas [of 300 pounds] of metal, with the aggregation of
18 cargas of greta, in only one furnace and in the space of twenty-four hours, by consuming
only 45 pounds of coal for each carga of metal.

There are three companies in that state for working the mines in the mineral district of Ramirez,
and another in that of Trinudco. There is no notice of the amount of funds employed, but it
is presumed that they are not considerable, by considering the smallness of the fortunes of
the inhabitants of the frontier.

In government and economy of mines the Assembly of Mineria of the valley of Santa Rosa have
jurisdiction, but in litigations the judges of first instance have jurisdiction, to whom a
particular law of this state gives authority.

In Coahuila, besides silver, there is found virgin iron in masses of considerable volume and
of extraordinary value in the Sierra of Mercudo, in Guadalupe, and other points.

There is copper in Putula or Rios and in Guadalupe. In these mineral districts we also encounter
lead. Amianto (incombustible crystal) also abounds in Niezca and in the vicinity of Monclova,
as also nitre in San Blas, jurisdiction of San Buonaventura. In the hills of Gizedo, correspondent
to the district of Santa Rosa, are extracted sulphur and copperas.

It is difficult to ascertain and to mention all the causes which have led to the decadence
of the mineral industry of this state, because the reports which the authorities have remitted
do not state it exactly; but there is no doubt that they are two, viz., the want of security
occasioned by the frequent incursions of the barbarians, and the little affection which the
agricultural people that occupy that state have for mining enterprises; that, as already said,
they require recognizances, as well as capital and hands, things which are scarce enough in
the vast territory of the frontier state of Coahuila.

D.

REPORT ON THE MINERAL RICHES OF LOWER CALIFORNIA.

The sparse population of this territory, the want of scientific information in its inhabitants,
and the difficulties which have existed in the way of keeping up an intercourse with their
fellow-citizens of the centre of the republic, are causes weighty enough for explaining the
ignorance in which we live concerning the mineral riches of that interesting peninsula. Without
doubt, if we are permitted to judge of it from the abundance of the precious metals which California
of the North and Sonora contain, and their contiguities, we ought to infer that in the territory
of Southern California the designated metals should be found in considerable quantities. The
official notices which we possess in respect to Lower California fortify this conjecture. Those
exhibited by persons who lack competent instruction upon this point contribute in part to foretell
what will be the grade of prosperity which will come in time with the developing of the mineral
industry in this territory.

Southern California, by its topographical position alone, is called to occupy an important
place, not only among the integral parts of the nation, but even among foreign parts of America
which are bounded by the Pacific. If its first necessity is attended to, with the augmentation
of population commerce will come to give it the consequent movement and animation, and the
Mineria will come to complete the circle of its prosperity; so that it is now difficult to
perceive the grand importance, commercial and political, which this despised peninsula, which
is called Lower California, will yet attain when the transition of time and the sequel of events
come to realize these Utopian offspring of a patriotic sentiment; but we will occupy ourselves
with the statistical mineral notices of that territory.

There are nine mineral districts (minerales) which are now recognized in California: their
names are San Antonio, Zule, Santa Anna, Muleje, Triumpho, Las Virgenes, El Valle Perdido,
Los Flores, Cuecuhilas. There is a range traversing from north to south for the space of forty
leagues in that territory, which contains also a multitude of veins which have not been explored.
In all these minerals abound, but the irregular and inconstant labor of some of the mines does
not permit us to consider them as in action.

